Sand - the lowes of these binds on the quadrate, over the hinge, and over the foot of
| preopercular. From this angular bone there is an increasing number of scutes
der the orbit, and those behind the orbit become a solid tesselated pavement (part
Sf which I have just dexcribed as lying directly beneath the squamosal), and this
vement lies on the edge of the lower part of the interopercular and covers all its
ascending part.
2 This most remarkable © interopercular ” is much like the preopercular of the Tele-
@teans, and might easily be mistaken for it. Tt is a huge plate bent upon itself at
2A right angle; the ascending part is half the size of the lower region, and whilst
Zovered by the facial © pavement,” itself covers the hyomandibular and symplectic ; that
is pointed above. The lower region of the bone is a large externally ganoid tract,
DHointed in front, ear-shaped behind, hollow within, and coiled inwards. Behind the
Fact pavement, and articulated by a cup-like facet to the © opercular process ” of the
Ayomandibular, is the opercular bone ; it is four-sided, but narrow above where it
Srticulates with the post-temporal. Tts broad lower edge is toothed and overlaps the
Subopereular ; its hind face is free and forms the upper half of the free edge of the
Eperculum. The © sabopercular” forms the lower half of that edge ; it is a broad plate
ith a rounded lower and hinder margin, and is uncinate in front and above, where
It is wedged in between the interopercular and opercular. These three bones—the
Bnteropercular, the opercular, and the subopercular—belong to the hyomandibular region.
-ZThe splints of the mandible are ganoid where they are exposed. The main bone is the
Z*dentary ” ; it coyers nearly all the outside of the ramus and the upper and lower
Sedges within. On the inside, between those edges, MEcKErL's cartilage is hidden in its
foremost two-thirds by a long, thin, narrow splint, the © splenial.” The rami of the man-
dible are close together, half-way, backwards, and then gently diverge. The coronoid