vein 8urface is wetted at once. The green surface of the lamina exhibits a beautiful
silyery lustre indicating that air adheres to it, and that water comes very slowly and
incompletely into contact with it. When the leaf is removed from the water, the
veins remain permanently and completely wet, but the water runs off the rest of the
gurface, leaving it dry, Consequently he concludes that when moist electrodes are
brought into contact with 8urfaces which thus differ, the diffusion processes which
result from the contact must go on at different rates,

By other experiments, physical rather than physiological, he has shown that in all
bodies capable of imbibition with water, electrical changes are associated with the process
of imbibition. His firsb experiments on the snbject were made with the ordinary
porous cells of batteries. Similar results were obtained by the investigation of non-
living vegetable structures, as e.g., laminaria stems. By comparing these facts with
those already stated as to the electrical phenomena observed in the investigation of
leaves, he derived the conclusion that whatever differences present themselves between
the different parts of leaves are due to © Unterschied im der Benetzbarkeit” of the
-gurfaces led off, What the direction of this effect is, KUNKEL had determined by
experiment, If a drop of water is placed on the green surface of a leaf between the
veins and allowed to remain there some time and the leaf is now led off by another
similar 8urface and by the drop, it is found that the surface first wetted is always
positive to the other (p. 368). If after one electrode has been brought into contact
with an ordinary surface, the other is applied to a vein, the direction of the difference
is opposed to the normal. The vein is at firs> negative but the difference quickly
diminishes and is 800n reversed (p. 360). In other words, when a leaf or other similar
structure is led off by two surfaces of which one is more © wettable” than the other,