their longer axis disposed obliquely to the outer surface (fig. 37), while in those which
are nearer the centre of the leaf the longer axis is directed longitudinally : thus in
the transverse section the cells nearer the centre of the section appear almost circular.
At the centre of the transverse section there is a small and simple yascular bundle,
Seonsisting only of four or five xylem elements, surrounded by tissues with cellulose
Owalls, and small cell-cavities with protoplasmic contents. Longitudinal sections show
Sthat the xylem elements are elongated, with annular or irregular spiral thickening :
here is no clearly marked phloem, and no bundle-sheath. The more central portion
Sf the mesophyll consists of elongated and pointed elements (tig. 37) ; the oblique
Herminal walls where two such elements adjoin one another are of irregular thickness,
And as 8een in surface view are marked with shallow pits: there is no special
#character of their cell-contents, and a nucleus is present. Ib seems probable that
this tissue replaces the phloem not only anatomically, bu also physiologically, in fact
hat ib is a rudimentary type of phloem. It is thus seen that the vascular bundle of
the leaf is of a very simple, type.
2 A peculiarity of structure is to be noted in the parenchyma at the base of the leaf.
ZThere the intercellular spaces are large, and into them there project numerous peg-
Alike outgrowths from the walls of the adjoining cells (fig. 40) ; these are similar to
Sthose already well known as existing in the parenchyma at the base of the leaf in
many ferns. The substance of which they are composed gives the following reactions :
E(1) They swell slightly with strong potash solution, and become less highly refractive,
but do not lose their clearly defined outline ; they do not stain with ScauLzE's
Evolution, even after previous treatment with potash, though the adjoining walls give
Su deep blue stain ; (3) in sulphuric acid they behave similarly to the middle lamella,
Rthat, i is, they resist its action longer than the layers adjoining the protoplasm ; (4)