to a great extent, since the latter was present in mere traces.
= On examining the small variety of Bunodes ballii from the same locality no © yellow
& cells” could be detected in the tentacles or elsewhere. Their tentacles were mostly
& coloured pink in the inner row, and colourless in the outer row, and the former gave a
=> well-marked actiniochrome-like spectrum, spectrum 17, Chart IT. The ectoderm was in
Z places lake-red (and the base dotted with red), and gave spectrum 18, Chart IT. This
B spectrum, on comparison with the tentacles, shows the presence of a band near the
5 violet, while the other band is well marked. In some specimens the lining of the body
5 cavity (endoderm) was pink, and in such cases gave spectrum 1, Chart III. ; the second
Z band of which is remarkably dark, in other cases it was RY yellow, re? gave no
= wellmarked band. I failed to procure hazmochromogen, however, from these anemones,
Swhich is very remarkable. Digestion of the different parts in rectified spirit and
Z caustic potash gave a negative result after repeated trials. Still the fact is interesting
Z that the colouring matter of the ectoderm resembles, with regard to the firss band of
Sits spectrum, that of Actinia mesembryanthemum. It may have been a pigment
S which is intermediate between actiniochrome and actiniohematin. But this T hope to
Edecide when I have an 12-horeeng A The replacement of this pigment by the colouring
Z matter of the © yellow cells ” in the large variety is of great interest, and teaches that
& the presence of the colouring matter has something to do with the absence of © yellow
- cells” in the mall variety. It would be premature to say that this pigment is
S peculiar to the small variety, but it may possibly be a special one like that of
EiSagartia parasitica.
= Sagartia dianthus.—Specimens of this Actinia were procured from Weymouth. Some
were yellow-brown externally, others white. The tentacles generally flesh-coloured ;
the lining of the body cavity generally reddish. The ectoderm of the yellow-brown