' the hard-drawn wire, being now from 76 to 80 per cent.
$27. In the nexb experiment the same piece of wire was again tested, after being
A made glass-hard by being plunged into water while at a bright red heat. Its magnetic
5 © behaviour in this state is shown in Plate 58, fig. 10. The highest magnetising force
| 5 Z applied (over 55 c.g.s. units) did not carry the wire pas the steep part of the curve of
Z magnetisation, and gave only 9300 as the value of B. On the removal of this force the
S residual value was 6360, or 68 per cent. of the induced. This must not, however, be
| Dtaken as a measure of the percentage of residual magnetism which would have been
found had the steel been more nearly © saturated.” To remove the residual magnetisn
Za reverse force of oyer 40 units was necessary. A noticeable feature in this case is
= the smallness of the hysteresis when the magnetising force was withdrawn and
reapplied, The © off” and © on” curyes for these operations are almost coincident.
-2 In fact, 80 far as this point is concerned, MAXwELL's extension of WEBER's theory
hz 2($ 3) would serve satisfactorily enough to explain the magnetic retentiveness of this
S material. Figs. 8, 9 and 10 are all drawn to the same scale, which is also the scale
- of fig. 6.
A $28. Experiments with Pianoforte Steel. —The foregoing experiments on steel
Z <= 8howed the desirability of testing that material under greater values of the mag-
& netising force. Accordingly another series were made in which the method used
65 was the direct magnetometric method ($ 18), and the magnetising force was raised
= to over 90 units. The wire used in this series of tests was pianoforte steel 0-078
E centim. in diameter, and 30 centims. or 380 diameters long. Observations were first
& made with the wire in its normal commercial temper ; their results are given below
and also in Plate 58, fig. 11, which shows the relation of B to H while the mag-
netising force was being applied, reversed, reapplied, removed, and reapplied as in