notochord (n.c.) grooving its lower

* The line of reference in this figure is too short and does not reach the incus.

+ In this figure for © read ey., and for e.hy. read c.hy.
{ The line of reference passes downwards instead of across.


DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL IN THE MAMMALIA, 175

face ; the plate passes directly into the cartilage of the capsule on the left gide.
There the vestibule (vb.) is laid open and the horizontal canal (þ.8.c.) is exposed,

23rd Section (Plate 24, fig. 13). —'This is only a little more than half the floor of
the skull. The supra-auditory cartilage (s.0.c.) is now passing into the supraoceipital,
and is again free from the capsule. The horizontal canal (4.s.c.) is cut across its arch,
the posterior canal (p.8.c.) through its ampulla, and the anterior canal (a.s.c.), above.
The large space between the capsule and the basal plate allows the 9th and 10th
nerves (IX., X.) to pass, and the large size, and the thick edges of the basal plate
(b.0.) is due to the fact that the condyles are cut across. The notochord (n.c.) is
now directly beneath the basilar artery (b.d.) ; it is seen again in the attached wedge
of the azis (a4z.) ; the condyles of the atlas (at.) are also seen.

24th, Section (Plate 24, fig. 13).—The basilar plate and condyles (oc.c.) are cut
across in this section in the fore part of the foramen magnum. The roof-cartilage
(8.9.c.) lies upon the auditory capsule. This latter shows inside it the hinder part of
the horizontal canal, and the neck of the posterior canal (p.s.c.) close to the ampulla.
Tn this, as in the last, the cartilage is very solid above and behind the canals,

The 1st, 2nd, and 3rd vertebre (at.,aa.,and below it,a small nucleus), are partly shown.

Fifth Stage. —Dissection of the lower face and throat of an embryo Mole ; 1 inet long.

There is very little difference between these parts in an embryo an inch long and
the same in one four-fifths of an inch (Plate 28, figs. 3 and 2). But in the larger
embryo I was abl