the Brachyura, The natatory apparatus of the tail, observed in my species and un-
noticed by Mr. Txoms0on, is also similarly characteristic, but the locomotive organs
are those to which the highest importance attaches with respect to the real nature of
the animal. At first sight, in addition to and immediately succeeding the two pairs
of maxillze, there appear only two pairs of large locomotive bipartite organs. These
therefore, on the supposition that the Zoe is the young of a Decapod animal, must
either be legs, or outer foot-jaws greatly developed ; and from their bipartite struc-
ture, the latter may be partly assumed ; but upon carefully dissecting the animal, a
series of organs were found, which not only fully proved this to be the case, but also
led at once to the discovery of the real nature of these animals, and gave a clue for
the correction of Mr. TnomesoN's ideas upon the supposed disengagement of the tho-
racic limbs. Immediately succeeding the outer pair of the natatory organs, and, in
fact, lying between them when at rest, was discovered a pair of slender minute
organs, composed apparently of two joints, one long and one $hort, and furnished at
the base with a still more minute lateral appendage. Beyond these, in succession,
were found the five pairs of organs precisely similar to Mr. TaowmesoNn's © limbs of
the future Crab disengaged from heneath the clypeus.” Moreoyer, a number (unde-
termined) of minute fleshy elongated masses were found near and attached to the
base of these limbs. Are we therefore, with Mr. Tyomeson, to suppose that in this
Zoe (and all the specimens were alike) metamorphosis had commenced, whilst not
the slightest trace of 8uch a process could be obseryed beyond this acquisition of
rudimental limbs, which can otherwise be much more satisfactorily accounted for ?
The researches of recent authors, and those particularly of M. H. Mixz Epwanrvs,
have clearly proved that in some species of Decapods (Acetes, Sergestes,) one or more
pairs of legs become rudimental, and that their place is supplied by highly developed