to be the case during the whole of January. At Marheh, Pergunnah Mohol, garden
produce was covered with a copious dew every morning ; the lands bordering the
gardens for forty or fifty yards around were slightly sprinkled with it ; but there was
not a vestige of it on the fields constituting the rising ground north and south of the
tract, of garden land. I had daily experience of these facts from my habits of quail
shooting. In the young wheats I observed that the quantity of dew on the plants was
in ratio to the proximity of the time at which they had been irrigated. Plants on
land, irrigated the day previously, wetted my shoes and cloth pantaloons thoroughly
in a few minutes. Plants on land watered two days previously were plentifully
covered with dew, but I could walk through two or three fields ere my clothes were
fully saturated. Wheat irrigated three or four days previously, and bordering the
fields above noticed, had dew on it, but not sufficient to wet me through. Such rela-
tive states of moisture in adjoining fields seem to establish the fact of the local charac-
ter of dews. Aqueous vapour would appear to have been taken up by the action of
the sun during the day, suspended over the spot, and deposited at night as dew on
the land in proportion to the supply yielded by day, or the different lands radiated
their heat in a different manner. My tents were within 200 yards of the fields where
I observyed these phenomena ; but from the 11th to the 30th of January there was not
any deposition of dew abont them, excepting on the 13th of January only, and the
dewing-point was but once within 45 of the point of saturation. In consequence of
these observations I was induced to remark particularly the localities of dew at Poona
and in its neighbourhood. In September and October I found that when there was
not a trace of dew in the cantomnent, there would be a deposition on the fields of
Standing grain half a mile distant ; and when there was not any dew either in the
cantonment or in the fields, it would yet be found on the banks of running rivulets,