secutive nights of similar temperature, and similarly cloudless, dew will be found to
have been deposited one night and not the following, In September 1827, the
journal records © Heavy dew” on the nights of the 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th,
29th, and 30th ; they then cease until the 5th of October, on the morning of which
there was a little dew; on the 6th there was not any, and on the 7th there was a little.
They do not occur again until the 26th ; hence to the 1st of November © Dew :” s8ub-
sequently none until the 1st of December; hence no dew until the 6th of January
1828, when dew was met with on garden land, but not on Feld land; such continued
to be the case during the whole of January. At Marheh, Pergunnah Mohol, garden
produce was covered with a copious dew every morning ; the lands bordering the
gardens for forty or fifty yards around were slightly sprinkled with it ; but there was
not a vestige of it on the fields constituting the rising ground north and south of the
tract, of garden land. I had daily experience of these facts from my habits of quail
shooting. In the young wheats I observed that the quantity of dew on the plants was
in ratio to the proximity of the time at which they had been irrigated. Plants on
land, irrigated the day previously, wetted my shoes and cloth pantaloons thoroughly
in a few minutes. Plants on land watered two days previously were plentifully
covered with dew, but I could walk through two or three fields ere my clothes were
fully saturated. Wheat irrigated three or four days previously, and bordering the
fields above noticed, had dew on it, but not sufficient to wet me through. Such rela-
tive states of moisture in adjoining fields seem to establish the fact of the local charac-
ter of dews. Aqueous vapour would appear to have been taken up by the action of
the sun during the day, suspended over the spot, and deposited at night as dew on
the land in proportion to the supply yielded by day, or the different lands radiated
their heat in a different manner. My tents were within 200 yards of the fields where