bute chiefly to original inequalities in the mode of its deposition. Here, as in other
places, I could find no fossils in the beds of pure sand and gravel, nor did I meet
with any in the blue clay which seems to crop out from beneath the sand at the
bottom of the hill. But fortunately, near the castle at Upsala a thin bed of violet-
coloured marl, full of shells, has been cut through at the bottom of a gravel-pit near
the top of the ridge. This marl, which forms a horizontal layer only three inches
thick, is within about twelve feet of the summit of the ridge, and about eighty above
the sea. It contains the Mytilus edulis, Cardium edule, Tellina Baltica, Littorina
littorea, Paludina ulva? Both above and below this marl are strata of gravel, and
some of the overlying beds contain round boulders a foot or more in diameter.

This is the only place in Sweden where I met with any fossils in the midst of one
of the sand-oasar, or ridges of sand and gravel. The fact of finding the recent shells of
the Baltic in such a position appears to me of the highest interest, especially because
on the summit of this, as of other ridges, I found large erratic blocks resting imme-
diately on the uppermost layers of gravel or fine sand. In that part of the ridge
south of the town called Palacksbacken, these blocks are abundant, and are on the
very smnmit, appearing to be all superficial, for I could find none in situ in the deep
gravel-pits which intersect the ridge. I examined these blocks in company with Pro-
fessor WAHLENBERG, and found them to consist of angular masses of gneiss and gra-
nite, the larger ones rarely exceeding nine feet in length ; but we measured one
which was no less than sixteen feet long, thirteen high, and eight broad. It follows,
therefore, that by whatever cause these enormous fragments of granite rocks have
been conveyed to their present sites, some of them at least have been transported
thither since the Baltic was separated from the ocean and inhabited by the existing