spheric temperature be very rapid, the temperature of the insect will at length be
found to be one or two tenths of a degree below that of the atmosphere. When this
has happened the insect generally becomes slightly aroused, fetches one or two deep
inspirations, and its temperature very quickly rises to that of the atmosphere, while
the insect.relapses again into its previous slumber. On the other hand, if the tempe-
rature of the atmosphere be gradually diminishing, that of the insect will also con-
tinue to be diminished, but will remain for a longer period higher than that of the
atmosphere when the atmosphere is rising, or is remaining stationary, 8ince the in-
sect during sleep can neither acquire nor part with its heat 80 rapidly as the atmo-
sphere around it. But if the temperature of the atmosphere continues to snbside
rapidly, the temperature of the insect during the whole period of its most profound
Sleep may continue considerably higher than that of the eurrounding medium. These
facts may be readily demonstrated by careful obseryations on the smooth-bodied
laryz of Lepidoptera, the best of which for this purpose are the laryz of the Sphinges,
in which besides the varying amount of temperature, the correspondent rate of pul-
sation may also be observed with great accuracy. 'The larya of Sphinz ligustri upon
which the observations detailed in Table No. II. were made, had arrived at the
seventh day of its age after assuming its last skin, or at about the thirtieth day
after coming from the egg, and consequently was nearly full grown, and beginning
to feed rather less voraciously than on the two preceding days. At the time my ob-
servations were commenced it had been lying at rest about an hour, having fed plen-
tifully in the morning. The whole period of observation, throughout which it was
Sleeping almost uninterruptedly, was about nine hours. During this period the
thermometer was allowed to remain entirely undisturbed on a table in close contact
with the ventral surface of the insect, while a second thermometer, with which the