2072. It should ever be remembered that the chemical theory sets out with a power,
the existence of which is pre-proved, and then follows its variations, rarely assuming
anything which is not supported by some corresponding simple chemical fact. The
contact theory sets out with an assumption, to which it adds others as the cases
require, until at last the contact force, instead of being the firm unchangeable thing
at first supposed by Voura, is as variable as chemical force itself.

2073. Were it otherwise than it is, and were the contact theory true, then, as it
appears to me, the equality of cause and effect must be denied (2069.). Then would

* (Note, March 29, 1840.)—l regret that I was not before aware of most important evidence for this phi-
losophical argument, consisting of the opinion of Dr, Roexr, given in his Treatise on Galvanism in the Library
of Useful Knowledge, the date of which is January 1829. Dr. Rocer is, upon the facts of the science, a sup-
porter of the chemical theory of excitation; but the striking pas8age I desire now to refer to, is the following,
at $ 113. of the article Galyanism. Speaking of the yoltaic theory of contact, he says, © Were any further
reasoning neceszary to overthrow it, a forcible argument might be drawn from the following consideration. If
there could exist a power having the property ascribed to it by the hypothesis, namely, that of giving continual
impulse to a fluid in one constant direction, without being exhausted by its own action, it would differ essen-
tially from all the other known powers in nature. All the powers and sources of motion, with the operation of
which we are acquainted, when producing their peculiar effects, are expended in the same proportion as those
effects are produced; and hence arises the impoxsibility of obtaining by their agency a perpetual effect ; or, in
other words, a perpetual motion. But the electromotive force ascribed by VoLra to the metals when in con-
tact, is a force which, as long as a free course is allowed to the electricity it sets in motion, is never expended,
and continues to be excited with undiminished power, in the production of a neyer-ceasing effect. Against
the truth of such a supposition, the probabilities are all but infinite,” —Rocer.