racic or second segment, one to the third, and one to the fifth segment. The fourth,
or segment intermediate between these, never possesses any legs, but in the female
contains the outlets of the organs of generation. In pursuing the analogies between
these segments and the thorax of insects, the first two seem to represent the pro- and
mesothoraz, while the fourth and fifth becoming united, answer to the metathorar :
this is analogous to the fusion of the fourth and fifth segments in the changes of true
insects. The general appearance of the animal has now become less delicate, the
head has acquired a darker colour, and a faint broad brown patch (p) is now making
its appearance at the anterior part of the seventh seginent. This patch, which is
permanent through all the earlier changes of the animal, is of the greatest utility in
determining the production of the new segments. It is in the segment immediately
posterior to this that the male organs find their outlet, a circumstance the more re-
markable, from the fact that this outlet is in the anterior part of the original germi-
nal space, and that at the bursting of the egg this is very near the termination of the
body. This was the condition of the young Iulus one hour (fig. 10.) after leaving the
amnion. It s0on began to exhibit its animal powers, to show the instinct peculiar to
its species, and to be sensibly affected by external causes. In less than six hours from
the bursting of the amnion, those specimens which had first undergone the changes
were in motion. At first the antennze were the organs employed. They were moved
slowly to and fro, and seemed to gain power by use; in a short time the limbs be-
gan to be extended, and the animal slowly raised itself upon them for the first time.
Its first efforts at locomotion were exceedingly feeble, but it gradually gained
strength. At the end of twelve hours the whole of the embryos were in motion,
crawling about slowly, but moving the antennz briskly. On exposing them to a
strong light, a marked effect was produced in their movements. They evidently were