intensity as the sun is higher, the other is the transference of vapour from the lower
to the higher regions of the air by the heating of the lower strata, producing the inci-
pient condensation at a certain elevation, already alluded to as the cause of the slight
clouds which often appear between ten and twelve o'clock. As the sun's power dimi-
nishes, and the vapours redescend into the less rarefied and warmer regions, they are
in some degree redissolved in the afternoon, and the increased transparency of the at-
mosphere (which will besides be aided by the general maximum of the temperature of
the air occurring in the plains between two and three o'clock, and producing also a
maximum of dryness there) checks the downward progress of the curve due to the
increasing obliquity of the rays. Thirdly. The curve at the upper station lies wholly
above that at the lower station, on account of the absorption of heat in every case by
the intercepted air. Fourthly. The range at the higher station is greater than that
at the lower. This is an evident and necessary consequence of the fact, that the max-
imum above mnst exceed the maximum below, and that at sunset and sunrise they
must both pass through zero. It might be more correct, however, to consider the
continuous part of the curve extending to the moment before sunset from the moment
after $unrise. In this case we might expect the difference of intensity at the two
stations to increase very rapidly with the obliquity of the sun's rays, so that the two
curves, instead of approaching one another in the morning and evening as they ap-
pear to do (Curves XII. and XII1.), ought to separate further. It is to be recollected,
however, that the extinction in any stratum varies with the intensity of the incident
heat, and that being very small near the horizon, the absolute extinction will be very
8mall also. Nevertheless, the relative extinction may be very great, as appears from
the form of the right-hand branch of Curve XIV. The morning branch does not show
the same effect, and this may be thus explained. The evening vapours are dense and