emerge. The vessels then appear to lie in a 8mall pit or fissure before becoming con-
nected with the tuft (fig. 9). Lastly, it occasionally happens that though extravasa-
tion has occurred into the capsule, the fluid has not spread itself over the whole
surface of the tuft, and yet has passed off along the tube (figs. 3, 10, m, m). As the
tubes in the human kidney usually become very tortuous unmediately on leaving the
Malpighian bodies, the injection running off along them may often wear the appear-
ance of an irregular extravasated mass, and s0 its real nature escape observation*

* During the course of the researches detailed in this paper, I have embraced whateyer opportunities pre-
sented themselyes of studying the morbid conditions of the human Kidney, and especially those usually known
as the stages of Barcnr's disease. It would obviously have been little conducive to my present purpose to
have entered here upon a general description of the results to which my inquiries on this interesting subject
have led me, but I cannot forbear noticing one fact of considerable importance, which will both illustrate and
be illustrated by the preceding account of the normal anatomy of the gland, It is well known that blood is
often passed with the urine during the course of the disease, especially at, the earlier periods of it, when many
circumstances contribute to prove that the kidneys are in a state of sanguineous turgescence. How does this
blood escape into the ducts of the gland ? The organ examined at this time presents on its surface and through-
out its cortical xubstance, scattered red dots, of xomewhat irregular shape, not accurately rounded, and generally
as large as pins” heads, that is, very many times larger than the Malpighian bodies. 'These pots are very visi-
ble on the surface, where, as I have before stated (p. 62), no Malpighian bodies exist. They have been never-
theless described by several recent writers (not without contention for the honour of the discovery) as Mal-
Pighian bodies enlarged from congestion. How a Malpighian tuft, such as I have described it, could attain 80
prodigious a bulk, prodigious compared with its natural size, it would not be easy to explain. It is true that,
if examined with a lens, the blood forming these spots is found to be arranged in convoluted lines, but these
convolutions are not the dilated vessels of the tuft. They are nothing less than the convolutions of a tube filled