between 8 and 9, in which the photograph differs more essentially from the Green-
wich observations than in any other instance : a sharp cusp in the latter, correspond-
ing at two points to a mere bend in the former, would lead to the inference, that the
disturbing cause must have been 80 near to Greenwich as to have exerted a mate-
rially greater influence on the magnet there under observation.

A singular fact is established by some of these photographs, namely, that after a
certain space of time the actinic influence spontaneously decays; for in some in-
stances the paper has been suffered to remain on the cylinder more than twelve hours ;
and consequently a second impression is made upon the paper within a very small
distance of that which had been made twelve hours previously, and while the Jatter
impression is distinetly developed, the former is very faint : fig. 6, Plate VII. is a good
illustration of this fact. The succeeding portions however of the first impression
become more and more distinct, thus showing that the decay is gradual. It appears
to commence after a period of from ten to fourteen or fifteen hours ; but the condi-
tions on which this variation of time depends have not been ascertained *,

* Subsequent obseryation has led to the opinion that this decay of the impression depends on the paper having
been originally prepared with too weak a solution of bromide of potassium. The s0lution now used contains
4 grains of isinglass, 16 grains of bromide of potassium, and 4 grains of iodide of potassium in one fluid-ounce
of distilled water. The paper prepared with this solution appears to retain the actinic impression unimpaired for
a period of more than 24 hours. Consequently two registers, each of 12 hours' variation, may be obtained on

the same paper by allowing the cylinder to go twice round. An example of this may be seen in Plate IX.
fig. 8, in which it may be observed that the occasional crosing of the lines does not at all interfere with their