would therefore consider that the transformation of the simple primordial cells into
other forms of tissue is the only indication of a distinet force which is manifested in
the development of the fabric, Its assumption of its complete and perfect structure,
is the result of that perfect harmony and balancing of the several forces of growth,
multiplication, and transformation, which indicates, in the most distinct and unmis-
takeable manner, the controlling and sustaining action of an intelligent mind, acting
in accordance with a determinate plan*.

In the life of the fully-developed organism, we have still to trace the persistence of
the same phenomena; for this is entirely made up of the vital manifestations of its
component parts; and these, in the plant, are either cells of various forms, or are
tubes formed by the coalescence of cells, which minister simply to the conveyance
of liquids. The vegetable physiologist has long been familiar with the fact, that all
the operations of the most truly vital nature are performed in cells, which have not
departed in any considerable degree from their primitive type. These operations do
not essentially differ in the most elaborate vegetable structure, from those which are
performed in the simplest plants, and in the earliest stage of development of the more
complex; the chief difference being, that the products of the actions of individual cells

* The term, © germ-force” has been employed by Mr. Pacer (Lectures on Repair and Reproduction) to de-
signate the power which each germ possesses ** to develope itself into the perfection of an appropriate specific
form.” The author has elsewhere shown (Brit. and For. Med.-Chir. Review, Oct. 1849, p. 413) that this
term cannot be logically understood as anything else than © a comprehensive expression of all the individual
forces which are separately concerned in the evolution, maintenance, and reparation of a living being.” And's0
far-from regarding the whole force which produces; the evolution as being possessed by, or as residing in, the