found, when closely examined, to have a very intimate mutual relationship, however
dissimilar may be the phenomena they produce. In the first place they are all ex-
erted, even in the most highly organized living being, through a common instrumen-
tality, the simple cell. Secondly, the entire assemblage of cells inaking up the totality
of any organism, have all a common parentage; being linearly descended from the
Single primordial cell in which the organism originated. Thirdly, they are mani-
fested in connection with each other, in those single-celled organisms, which are the
lowest members of the two kingdoms respectively, and 'in which there is no sepa-
ration or specialization of function.—Hence we may express them collectively under
the general term of Cell-force; and seem entitled to affirm that each is a particular
modus operandi of the same force as that which is concerned in cell-formation #.

* It may now be considered as a well-established fact, that the simple fibrous tissues may originate in a
structureless blastema, and may be produced by its fibrillation, without passing through the intermediate con-
dition of cells. But these tissues cannot be regarded as possessing any truly vital endowments ; their proper-
ties being simply physical, and their uses in the economy merely mechanical.

+ This general proposition was first advanced by the author in regard to the operations in which orgaaic life
consists (and which are common, therefore, to plants and animals), in his © Report on the Origin and Functions
of Cells” in the Brit. and For. Med. Review for January 1843. The subsequent discovery of the cellular
composition of the ultimate fibrilla of striated muscular fibre, by himself and Prof. Snazyzy contemporaneously,
and the accumulation of various facts relative to the existence of cells or cell-nuclei at the peripheral extremi-
ties of the afferent nerves, as well as in the central organs, seem to justify the assertion that unmetamorphosed
cells are the active agents in the production of Muscular and Nervous force; in the former case effecting con-
traction by their change of form, and in the latter deyeloping nerve-force, which is transmitted along the fibres