2687. Copper, when thus divided into plates, had its reyulsive phenomena raised
to a degree that I had not before observed. A piece of copper foil was annealed and
tarnithed by heat, and then folded up into a small square block, half an inch in the
side and a quarter of an inch thick, containing seventy-two folds of the metal. This
block was suspended by a silk film as before (2248.), and whilst at an angle of 30* or
thereabouts with the equatorial line (2252.), the electro-magnet was excited ; it im-
mediately advanced or turned until the angle was about 45* or 50?, and then stood
$till. Upon the interruption of the electric current at the magnet the reyulsion came
on very strongly, and the block turned back again, passed the equatorial line, and
proceeded on until it formed an angle of 50* or 60* on the other side; but instead of
continuing to revolve in that direction as before (2315.), it then returned on its course,
again passed the equatorial line, and almost reached the axial position before it stood
Still. In fact, as a mass, it vibrated to and fro about the equatorial line.

2688. This however is a simple result of the principles of action formerly developed
(2329. 2336.). The revulsion is due to the production of induced currents in the
suspended mass during the falling of the magnetism of the electro-magnet ; and the
effect of the action is to bring the axis of these induced currents parallel to the axis
of force in the magnetic field. Consequently, if the time of the fall of magnetic force,
and therefore of the currents dependent thereon, be greater than the time occupied
by the reyulsion of the copper block as far as the equatorial line, any further motion
of it by momentum will be counteracted by a contrary force; and if this force be
strong enough the block will return. The conducting power of the copper and its
division into laminze, tend to set up these currents very readily and with extra power ;
and the very power which they possess tends to make the time of a vibration s0 short,