ide. The remaining bundles of the roots plunge into the central portion of the
Zcornu, and winding among its vesicles, are lost in the intricate network (se fig. 14).
SA few of their fibres, after proceeding to some depth in the grey substance, bend round
Zand take a more or less longitudinal direction.

A
=]

S * I have not yet ascertained whether any of the fibres of the spinal nerves ascend with the white columns
Owithout entering the grey substance, as maintained by Mr. Grarixces, Mr, SoLLY, and Dr. J. Bunce.
S + Dr. Suarez, one of the most recent authorities on the subject, observes, ** The anterior roots have been
Said to reach the anterior grey cornu, by passing through the superficial stratum of white substance over it,
but actual demonstration of the fact is yet wanted.” —Quarx's Anat. 5th edit. P- 727. Beringer states merely
Sthat ome of the anterior roots perkaps reach as far as the grey substance. His account of their origin is as
follows : « Cernuntur filimenta radicum anteriorum nervorum epinalium partim exoriri a fasciculis anterioribus
Lmedullz spinalis, et quidem filimenta aliqua nervea direct? secedunt a superficie medullze spinalis ; alia verd
Sfilimenta nervea per canaliculum a pia matre suppeditatum profunde descendunt in substantiam albidam me-
dullz, et fortass* nonnulla usque ad cineream 'substantiam perveniunt.” —Op. cit. p. 50. It is well known
STRAY Mr. GraixGzr was the first who professed to have traced the connection of the anterior roots of the nerves
with the grey substance of the chord; and that Dr. STiLLIxG has since described and represented it ; but the
statements of these eminent men failed to convince most of the physiologists of this country. I may take this
opportunity, however, of observing, that we are much indebted to Dr. STiLLIxG for having thrown consider-
able light on some of the most obscure points in the anatomy of the spinal chord and medulla oblongata; and
for having originated and 8uggested new methods of further inquiry. His researches prove him to be not
only a skilful, ingenious and laborious investigator, but, in general, a correct and acute observer. The