costal nerves becomes associated with a portion of gelatinous fibres, as it passes over
the thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic, on a leyel with the nerve from which the
branch arises. Thus the splanchnic nerve, although essentially composed of tubular
fibres derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves, has in its formation a portion of gela-
tinous fibres derived from each of the thoracic ganglia. These two kinds of fibres,
i.e. the tubular fibres and the gelatinous fibres, although associated together, are yet
as distinct as the motor and sensitive tubules of the cerebro-spinal nerves, after they
are mixed with each other; for by spreading out the tubules of the splanchnic nerve,
each set of fibres can be distinetly and separately traced to its origin and termina-
tion. In the course of the gelatinous fibres down the splanchnie nerve, some ganglia
are always to be found; sometimes one, when it. is comparatively large; sometimes
as many as three, when they are small and may be readily overlooked. Were it
necessary to offer any confirmation to the fact, that the gelatinous fibres arise in the
ganglia of the sympathetic, these ganglia on the splanchnic nerve would offer a ready
and convenient demonstration; for by comparing the fibres which enter at their
upper part with the fibres which pass out at their lower part, the latter are found
considerably to exceed the former. The splanchnic nerve usually exists as a Single
round cord, having a ganglion at the lower part; but occasionally we find it divided
into two very distinct parts, one white and the other gray. In this instance the
white part is chiefly composed of the tubular fibres, to which it owes its white aspect,
yet it contains a small portion of gelatinous fibres; and in like manner, the gray
part, although consisting chiefly of gelatinous fibres, which give it the gray appear-
ance, contains some tubular fibres. Although an interlacing of the tubular and
gelatinous fibres occurs in the whole course of the splanchnic nerve, yet it takes
place chiefly at the lower part below the ganglion. The apparent object of this in-