vapours are immediately formed ; the liquid frequently becomes s0 hot that it inflames,
and the body is burnt with evolution of dense white fumes of phosphoric acid. If a
strip of paper, moistened with triethylphosphine, be introduced into a test-tube contain-
ing oxygen and immersed into hot water, the vapour of the phosphorus-base produces
with the oxygen an explosive mixture, which detonates after a few moments with con-
siderable violence. When poured into a flask filled with chlorine gas, every drop is
inflamed with disengagement of pentachloride of phosphorus and hydrochloric acid, and
Separation of carbon. Triethylphosphine unites with bromine and iodine, evolving con-
siderable heat, which may give rise to inflammation ; but if the action be moderated,
crystalline compounds are produced. . In cyanogen gas the phosphorus-base is converted
into a brown resinous mass. If a piece of sulphur be thrown into a test-tube containing

* There is nothing new in the fact that the odour of a substance may be considerably changed by dilution,
Seyeral years ago, when occupied in the preparation of different ethers, which have found numerous applica-
tions in perfumery, IT had frequent opportunities of obserying how the desired aroma, which was absent in
the pure substance, was brought out by dilution with alcohol. The hyacinth s8mell of the dilute phosphorus-
base is 80 characteristic, that one morning I found in my laboratory a large basket filled with hyacinths,
the present of a lady friend of mine, who, interested in my labours, had a strong impression that triethyl-
phosphine must þe present in the hyacinth. In the interest of science, the entire floral adornment of the
garden had been unmercifully sacrificed! Tt would have been ungrateful not to distil them, but I TOZtOk to
say, that the anticipation of the amiable donor, who wished to enrich me with 80 interesting a discovery,
proved unfounded. The hyacinth does not contain any phosphorus-base, —A. W. H.


ON THE PHOSPHORUS-BASES. 581