te difference between the lengths of the different scales is not found to be the
me as it was at those first comparisons ; the discordance being zgg55th of an inch, or
PBrhaps twice the probable error of one micrometer-reading. Moreover, the intervals
HSetween divisions engraved on four sides of the Royal Astronomical Society's scale do not
Hreserve the xame relation as formerly, the discordance being about 55;3goth of an inch.
The difference between the lengths of Colonel CoLpy's bars appears to be sensibly the
"Sine as it was formerly ; but there are other objections to the accuracy of comparisons
Serived from these bars: they are of different metal from the Standards ; their expan-
Sons have not been ascertained ; their thermometers do not correspond ; they were not
Properly supported. Tt is (in Mr. SHEEPSHANKS' opinion) an adyantage that they are
Wade of a pure metal. References to the determinations of the length of the pendulum
may be rejected at once, not only because they are inaccurate, but also because they are
fact expressed in terms of SHUCKBURGH'S scale, and not in terms of the Parliamentary
Ktandard. Mr. SyEEPSHANKsS considers therefore that our materials for restoration are
Senerally unsound; and that with our endeavours to give the best evidence in our power
& to the past, we must combine, what is now more important, the discussion of methods
Fr avoiding similar difficulties for the future. For this purpose it appears necessary to
investigate anew the questions of stability and thermometric expansion of standards, and
to devise better methods of comparing standards than have hitherto been used. And in the
pursuit of these inquiries Mr. SHEEPSHANKS proposes to reject all considerations but those
of accuracy and permanence; to adopt the most complete and convenient mode of experi-
menting, regardless of time, trouble in preparation, and (to a certain degree) of expense.
Mr. Sy8ePSHANKs then gave the following sketch of his proposed plan of operations :—
+ The place of experiments to be in the lower cellars of Somerset House, in the apart-
ments of the Royal Astronomical Society.