
The formative power of the cell is expended in the production of secondary oleagi-
nous cellules and * molecular base,” which constitute the contained parts of all the
larger parent-corpuscles. Thesmallest cells are filled only with a limpid oleine, of slight
refractive power. Evaporated, in Rhizostoma this fluid yields abundant crystals of
chloride of sodium. In no Acaleph whatever are the gastro-vascular canals tunnelled
in the centre of the substance of the disc. They are always situated as superficially
as possible on the inferior surface of the disc in the Pulmograde Medusz; in the
Ciliograde under the external cuticle of the globe in immediate relation with the
cilia, In this anatomical arrangement the physiologist discerns a true intention, that
of exposing the fluid contents to the atrating agency of the surrounding medium. In
Rhizostoma the yellow colour bas its seat in the fluid, not in the floating cells. It is
a fact of singular interest, that the corpuscles of the chylaqueous fluid in this, as in
ALL other classes in which it exists, vary in $ize with the variations in the size of the
body of the individual specimen under examination. In this respect they are diame-
trically distinguished from the morphotic elements of the #rue-blood in vertebrated
animals, the corpuscles of which bear no proportion in size to that of the body of the
animal from which they are taken. This general observation will be afterwards con-
firmed by a variety of particular exemplifications. It has now been shown that in
Zoophytes and Medusz sea-water is admitted in large quantities, more or less directly,
into the chylechannels, with the contents of which it more or less directly mixes and
vitally assimilates. This fact may at present be mentioned as another fundamental par-
ticular, in which the chylaqueous fluid, in ALL animals, is distinguished from the blood-
proper, for into this latter fluid the external element is never immediately admitted ;
it is previously subjected to the influence of one or more organic processes ; it is thus