ova in variable proportions.
These corpuscles, when observed in the chylaqueous fluid, are not mutually repul-
sive, but when examined while yet in the blood-channel, they manifest the most
extraordinary restlessness. The motion of the individual particles is singularly irre-
gular, as though due to attractive and repulsive forces acting among themselves.
The compression of the object under the microscope increases the confusedness of the
motion. But what is the real explanation of a phenomenon s0 unusnal in the history
of blood-yessels? Are the corpuscles self-motive, or is their agitation excited by an
external cause? The former question is at once set at rest by the observation that
when the corpuscles escape out of the vessel, their motion instantly ceases. The
cause is not therefore in themselves. The real exciting force is derived from the
vibratile epithelium by which the interior of the vessel is lined. But is not this
extraordinary fact opposed at once by every dictate of analogy ? It is, though not by
that of the analogy of the blood-system in other genera of Echinoderms. Never
before has the physiologist recognised the anatomical incipiency of the blood-yascular
system of this class. It is the first grade of a novel apparatus in the living organism.
Viewed in this relation of imperfect development, the presence of cilia on the interior
of its conduits occasions no snrprisze. From the utter insignificance in magnitude
and distribution of the blood-proper system in the economy of the Echinoderms as
compared with the chylaqueous, it is beyond dispute that it is upon the Jatter that
devolve the vital offices of nourishing the solids. I have lately discovered that the
integuments of all the nude Sipuncles is remarkably fenestrated, not with open per-
forations, but with elliptical spots closed only by a thin ciliated epidermis ; nothing
therefore but a delicate caticle intervenes between the chylaqueous fluid contained
in the visceral cavity and the atrating medinm without. No mechanism can be better