travels round and round the concave of the shell, penetrates the hollow axes of all
the membranous processes of the shell, where it experiences the change of oxygenation,
conveys the REsvLTs of this change to he blood-proper, and replenishes the water
system or ambulacral feet. It contains flattened corpuseles (fig. 11), the largest of
which are provided with an involucrum, bearing particles of limpid oleine. A cell
here and there may be seen, the involucrum of which apparently projects out like a
cilium, and when these are numerous it, is easy to mistake such an appearance for
those characteristic of a sperm-cell. It is really due to the fibrinous contents coagu-
lating in /ines on escaping. When a small test-tabe is filled with the peritoneal fluid
(an experiment which demands the sacrifice of ten or twelve individuals), nitric acid
will prove clearly the presence of albuminous principles. From the total absence of
proper-blood-vessels in the membranous structure and processes of the shell, or inte-
gumentary system of Spatangus and Echinus, from the fact that these latter processes
are hollow, and openly communicate with the chamber containing the chylaqueous
fluid, by which they are filled, and that their parietes within and without are pro-
fusely lined with cilia, the conclusion is not to be disputed, that they constitute the
real organs of breathing, and that the real sbject of the respiratory change is the
chylaqueous fluid, and not the true-blood, which is limited to the central viscera in
its circulation. This conclusion, drawn by fair induction from anatomical and phy-
siological considerations, is corroborative of the view suggested by the results of
microscopic and chemical inquiries, that the fluid contents of the peritoneal cavity
in the Echinidee, however nearly in appearance they may resemble sea-water, are
vitally and organically endowed. In the Ophiuridz and Ophiocomide (fig. 12) the
chylaqueous fluid, which occupies the cavities of the body and the hollow axes of the
arms, is essentially similar in composition to that of the former Echinoderms. In