there exists but ox system of fluids, appearing as if the central stomach. of the
Acaleph had been suddenly partitioned from, its dependent czcal prolongations.
Viewed from the novel vantage point afforded by the fluids, the mind is led to con-
template the whole invertebrate kingdom under the guidance of three leading ideas ;
—lst. It sees in the Zoophytes a group. of animals in which the fluids form a Single
»ystem in free communication with the external element. Advancing to the limit of the
Echinoderm, it suddenly descries the superaddition of a totally distinct system, that,
namely, of the true-blood, while the former still persists; it, tracks this double fluid-
chain up to the highest articulated animal; and, 3rdly, at the bighest frontier line,
bounding the Medus, it observes a divarication in the chain, by the divergence
from the originally single portion of the molluscan branch. In the Mollusca, like the
Protozoa, the fluids constitute a single system ; but the system of the circulating fluids
in the former is distinguished from that in the latter by this important fact, that he-
tween it and the external element there exists no direct communication as in the
Protozoa. In the Protozoa the nutrient fluids are chylaqueous, in the Mollusca they
are true-blood, moving in a closed circle, not of cylindrical vessels, however, and ex-
cluded from all direct relation with the surrounding element ; that is, before salt
water, in this class, is admitted into the blood, it must, by the laws of this system,
have first received an incipient organization, by passage through the stomach. The
assimilating power of the chylaqueous fluid, therefore, as it exists in the Protozoa
and Echinoderms and Annelida, when exerted upon salt water, immediately converts
the latter into a vital organized fluid. This power is not possessed by true-blood.
Classified in accordance with the principles established by the foregoing history of
the comparative anatomy of the fluid elements of nutrition, the diagram here pre-
sented (Plate XXXV.) would illustrate the arrangement of the invertebrated classes,