Qbut when the whole arrangement of the apparatus is such as to be convenient for ob-
Servation, the horizontal sides are much longer than the others. In this second Spec-
Ztrum the colours run horizontally, that is to say, the lines of equal colour are hori-
Szontal. The interruptions of the primary spectrum corresponding to fixed lines,
Salmost reduced to points, are now elongated, s0 that in this strangely formed spec-
Zrum the principal fixed lines of the solar spectrum are seen running across the
Solours.
Z 101. It will be convenient to have a name for the second of the two spectra above
Smentioned, As the term secondary spectrum is already appropriated to something
Zultogether different, I shall call it the derived spectrum. The first of the diverging
Sspectra may be called the primitive spectrum, while the original spectrum, considered
Zas not yet decomposed by the prism beld to the eye, may be called, for distinction,
as in fact it has been already called, primary.
EZ 102. In accordance with the law enunciated in Art. 80, it is found that the derived
ZSspectrum appears always on one and the same side of the primitive, being less refracted.
Z 103. The brillianey of the derived spectrum, its extent, both vertically and hori-
=zontally, the colours of which it mainly consists, the distribution of its illumination
Zin a horizontal direction, all depend upon the nature of the snbstance upon which
=the primary spectrum is received. As a general rule, it may be stated that it starts
5 from the neighbourhood of the brightest part of the primitive spectrum, and extends
R from thence onwards to a good distance beyond the extreme violet ; and that with a
given substance its colour is pretty uniform, that is, does not much change in passing
from one vertical section to another, Sometimes the derived spectrum remains very
bright up to its junction with the primitive, or at least till it gets 80 near that the
superior brilliancy of the primitive spectrum prevents all observation on the derived ;