mode of examination, in detecting spermatozoa within the vitelline cavity in direct communication with, and
Epenetrating into the yelk. They were first seen by myself, in company with a friend, on the 25th of March of
Sthe present year (1853) within the clear chamber above the yelk, at about forty minutes after fecundation,
gwhen the chamber begins to be formed. I have since repeatedly observed them within the chamber, and in
Some instances $till in motion, in which state I have had opportunities of showing them to my friend Professor

YELLS of University College, and to two other medical friends, so that the presence of active spermatozoa within
Vthe vitelline cavity in the fecundated egg of the Frog may now be regarded as indisputable. The details of my
urvodtigution I reserve for a future communication, and will merely now add, that the spermatozoa do not reach
e yelk of the Frog's egg by any special orifice or canal in the envelopes, but actually pierce the 8ubstance of
Athe envelopes at any part with which they may happen to come into contact ; as I have constantly observed while
watching their entrance : sometime after they have entered the yelk chamber they become disintegrated, and
are resolved into elementary granules. The importance of this fact of actual penetration by the spermatozoon
into the yelk is indicated by Wacxzr and LevckarDr, in their late Article, ** Semen *” (7oc. cit. p. 507), in the
following remark ;—** The truth is, the * how” of the fecundation is as far from our knowledge to-day as it
was thousands of years ago; this process is till enveloped in what we feel inclined to consider * its sacred
mystery.” It would be different if we could prove that the spermatozoa really yielded the material foundation for
the body of the embryo ; that they penetrated into the ovum, and were developed into the animal (which was the
assumption of Lzeruwexnnak, AnDay, GUATIER), or else, that they became metamorphosed into the central parts
of the nervous system.” —G. N., April 18, 1853.
+ Philosophical Transactions, Part I. 1851, p. 176.


272 MR. NEWPORT ON THE IMPREGNATION OF THE OVUM IN THE AMPHIBIA l
