mass;” he speaks of the ice © cracking and straining forwards ;” and in that concluding
passage of his *Travels' which has excited such general admiration, he says of the glacier,
<*it yields groaning to its fate.” Other observers make use of similar expressions.
M. Dzs0R also speaks of the sudden change of the colour of the blue veins of the ice
where a portion of the central moraine near the Abschwung is cleared away ; the obser-
vation is very remarkable. © Au moment,” says M. Drs0R, © oi on la met a decouvert.
la glace des bandes blenes est parfaitement transparente, Feil y plonge jusqu'& une pro-
fondeur de plusieurs pieds, mais cette puret6 ne dure qu'un instant, et Von voit bient6t
se former des petites felures Yabord superficielles, qui se combinent en r68eau de maniere
a enlever peu & pen a la glace blene toute sa transparence. Ces felures propagent 6gale-
ment dans les bandes blanches, et lorsqu'on approche Toreille de la surface de la glace,
en entend distinctement un 7eger bruit de crepitation qui les accompagnent au moment de
leur formation.” These facts appear to be totally at variance with the idea of viscosity.

In a chapter on the © Appearance of the larger Glaciers,” in an interesting little work
by M. Movss0n of Ziirich, for which one of us has to thank the kindness of Professor
CLavsIvs, the phenomena which they exhibit are thus described * ;—© The appearance
of a large glacier of the first order has been compared, not without reason, with that
of a high swelled, and suddenly solidified stream. It winds itself in a similar manner
through the curving of the valley, is deflected by obstacles, contracts its width, or spreads
itself out...... In short, the form is modified in the most complete manner to suit the
character and irregularities of its bed. To this capacity to change its form, the ice of
glaciers unites another property, which reminds us of the fluid condition ; namely, the
capability of joining and blending with other ice. Thus we see separate glacier branches
perfectly uniting themselves to a single trunk ; regenerated glaciers formed from crushed