by a circular disc or sucker, and its centre contains an apparatus of hooklets (sce Plate X.
» fig. 2), and thus the four suckers and hooklets are all situated nearly upon the same
plane, a position which would be advantageous for the employment of these organs
when the animals are transferred from their deeply-seated and confined position
between the muscular fibres to the free surface of a mucous membrane. The suckers
are of a circular figure, with a diameter of about 45th of an inch. See Plate X. fig. 4.
Fach consists of two or three membranous folds, placed at different depths from the
surface, of about three-fourths of a circle in extent, 80 that the passage through a sucker
from the external surface to the interior of the neck is rendered rather tortuous, and
inclining to a spiral. The external opening of this passage varies very much in different
Cysticerci, both in 8ize and shape ; but it is always s8maller than the internal one. It is
difficult, if not impossible, to demonstrate by the microscope alone, the existence of a
passage through a sucker ; however, this fact admits of proof from the circumstance of
the carbonic acid, which is evolved in the cavity of the neck during the decomposition of
the calcareous bodies, when these animalcules are in acetic acid, being seen under the
microscope to pass freely through the openings in the snckers. In the membranous
folds of the suckers, both circular and radiating fibres are distinctly visible, resembling
in their general characters those in the neck, already mentioned. See Plate X. fig. 4.

The hooklets, as before observed, are situated in a circle around the centre of the
s$quare space before described. See Plate X. figs. 2 and 5. They are generally twenty-six
in number, thirteen long and as many short, arranged alternately, a long and a short
one. Occasionally, but very rarely, there are more: I have seen as many as twenty-nine.
"The longer hooklets are about +Zgth of an inch in length, the shorter ones are a little
