S 2. Red ferrideyanide of potassium (3KCy+FeCy?®) is paramagnetic. TI observed, in the
Fear 1847, that any fragment of this salt, freely suspended between the two poles of an

= * I think it scarcely necessary here to prove that the theoretical views imputed to me by Professor
-*MYXDALL (Philosophical Transactions, vol. cxlv. p. 2) are not mine, and never have been mine. T never
' Fcribed the phenomena, firs observed by myself, to a new force acting upon an ideal line, like the optic
Axis, quite independent of the paramagnetic condition of the mass of the erystal. Convinced, as T was from
She beginning, that there ought to be analogies between the optic and magnetic properties of crystals, T
* ever 80ught the reason for it anywhere else but in the influence of the crystalline structure on both the
iniferous ether and the magnetic induction. Tno more intended to imply a real repulsion or attraction of
© optic axes, than the celebrated French philosopher, when he aid a beam of light in positive erystals was
attracted, in negative ones was repelled, intended to announce a mysterious action emanating in fact from
hese axes. Such expressions are intended to describe a newly observed fact, but not theoretical views. So
Ylso the true meaning of the German words, translated thus, © independent of the paramagnetic or diamag-
Aebic condition of the mass of the crystal,” is only this, © whether the mass of the crystal (tourmaline and
ous spar) be paramagnetic or diamagnetic, the direction of the axis is the same.” If, notwithstanding
Ahese remarks, there should remain any doubt whatever, I can refer to a paper sent to the Haarlem Society,
oomber 1849, before other philosophers, except Professor Farapay, had published anything about the
magnetic induction of crystals. Starting from mechanical principles, T communicated in this paper a
mathematical explanation of what I had observed, for instance, in the case of tourmaline, conceiving this
erystal to consist of an infinite number of infinitely small needles, becoming paramagnetic by induction, and
being all perpendicular to its axis (ee PogaexDorey's Amnalen, lxxxvi. p- 1). The physical conditions
of the question, as there stated, seem to be the same as those which Professor TYNDALL has also adopted
in his memoir (p. 45). And though T have recently found reason to modify them, yet there is no trace to
be found of the supposition imputed to myself, nor even of © the 8upposition that the asxuming of the axial