tremities of the poles of a powerful battery a short distance from one another between
two slips of glass beneath the microscope, then completing the circuit by shedding a
op of blood between the plates, and immediately observing the result. In several
Sch experiments I invariably found that aggregation took place as usual, and the only
Seſfoct produced by the galvanisxm was a chemical change in the blood, dependent on
Bdlectrolysis, gradually developing itself in the immediate vicinity of the poles, and
Feansing solution of the corpuscles.

= * Since this paper was read, I was told by a gentleman well known in the scientific world, that he had
Eobeorved, many years ago, that if blood was shed upon a plate of glass previously heated to the temperature
Eof 100? Far., the red corpuscles showed no disposition to aggregation till the glass cooled, when the blood
Dbecame killed, as he supposed, by the unnaturally low temperature. This appeared to me entirely irrecon-
Eciteablo with the fact, that in the frog the red corpuscles aggregate immediately after the blood has been
<xhed, although there is no material difference between the temperature of the air and that of the body of
Stho animal. But, if true, it would have important bearings, to which Ineed not here allude, upon the essen-
Atial nature of inflammation. T have therefore thought it well to make some experiments upon the point.
The plate of glass upon which the blood was to be placed was warmed by immersion in water of a known
temperature, and quickly but carefully dried. A drop of blood from my own finger was then at once shed
upon it, and without loss of time covered with a piece of thin glass, which had been kept warm by being
laid upon a metallic plate of the same temperature as the water. By proceeding in this way, I was able to
make obseryations upon the blood very s0on after it had been shed ; and when the glass was about 100* Fanr.,
the aggregating tendency was found just the same as in ordinary eases, and I detected short rouleaux already
formed within five or six seconds of the escape of the blood from the vessels of the finger. 'The same state
of things continued when the water was as high as 136?; but when its temperature was carried up to 155®,
the red corpuscles lost their disc-shape and some of them appeared to become broken up, and no rouleaux