'The blood-vessels are not the only constituents of the animal body which haye these
remarkable relations to the blood. If the integument of a sheep's foot be-parti
reflected, and one of the subcutaneous veins immediately wounded, 80. as to let 80me.
blood run into the angle between the skin and the rest- of the limb, before any drying
of the tissues has occurred, care being taken that no hairs or other solid matters haye
been introduced, this blood will remain in whole or in part fluid for half an hour or
more; whereas, if blood from the same vessel be placed in contact with any ordinary
Solid, whether on the foot 'or elsewhere, it will coagulate in perhaps five minutes.
This is sufficient, proof that the snbcutaneous cellular tissue resembles the lining mem-
brane of the vessels in its conduct towards the blood. The long time during which blood

* From what has been «tated in the text, it is evident that the ammonia theory of Dr. B. W. Rronanvs0x
does not account for the fluidity or coagulation of the blood within the yessels. But the facts mentioned
by that gentleman in the valuable exsay which has gained the las} A8TLEY Cooper prize, and also my; owty
experience [xee the paper before referred to], haye convinced me that a certain amount of the volatile alkali
does exist in freshly-drawn blood, and that it has the effect of retarding the process of coagulation. This
principle must be borne in mind in all experiments upon this subject, in order to understand circumstances
which would otherwise be inexplicable. Thus, if the foot of a sheep be obtained with the blood retained in
the vessels by a bandage applied before the death of the animal, and, after reflection of the skin, a needle be
introduced into a vein by a free opening made by the scissors, a deposit of fibrine will be found upon it in
perhaps five minutes; but if the needle. þe pushed through the coats of 8uch a yein, 80 as to introduce ib
without previous wound of the vessel, and allow little opportunity for ezcape of ammonia, the deposit will,
not take place for a quarter of an hour or more. Again, the blood obtained by wounding a yein imme»
diately after reflecting the skin, within the first few hours after the death of the animal, takes a much
longer time to coagulate the blood shed from the xame yessel after the lapse of half an hour or 80; doubtless