It appears to cover a larger amount of the image in the direction of E, as it deepens in
Shade. It is suecceeded by other bands, s and Z, and by a line x. The latter becomes
very prominent, and from its vicinity to the comparatively faint line E, which is not per-
ceptibly deepened by the atmosphere, has sometimes been mistaken for E itself. Beyond
b there are several remarkable bands, especially those designated in the map by the letters
:and z. Fitself seems to become nebulous; and between it and G appear seven bands,
7, {,», &, 0, T, g: the representation of the six last given in the map is on the authority
of one single observation and drawing by Sir David BrEwsTER. It is but rarely that
this part of the spectrum can be seen at sunset ; and the portion beyond G is 80 seldom
visible, and when seen is 80 faint, that no atmospheric lines or bands have been descried
in it.

Allusion has already been made to the fact that the band 3 is easily recognizable in
diffused light ; and this is more or less true, as might be expected, of the other bands
and lines. Indeed the western sky after sunset affords a favourable opportunity for
studying those in the more luminous parts of the spectrum. If the sky be red, C, C6,
D, and 3 generally appear as four very black bands; if it be yellow, they are not 80 well
defined. The various colours of the clouds also afford a great variety of appearance, but
not s0 much in the character of the dark spaces, as of the luminous image which they
intersect. There seems to be a difference in the visibility of these bands at different
times, which is not readily accounted for; thus on October 29, 1837, at Allerly, near
Melrose, at the instant of sunset the luminous sky gave a spectrum in which C 6, though
distinctly seen, was not black, nor was D, nor 8, while the line B was very broad and
deep. For thirty-seven minutes after sunset this black B was discernible ; but even
then, and indeed until the twilight had gone, the forementioned bands, usually 80