8 of Foraminifera generally. But further, as the separate carpels of the orange are
= collectively invested by a general integument, which also to a certain degree dips down
S between them, and which fills up what would otherwise be yoid spaces about the two
5 poles of the spheroid, s0 shall we find that the proper walls of the spirally arranged
Pegments of Polystomella are strengthened and consolidated by a secondary calcareous
&deposit upon their external surface, corresponding to that * intermediate skeleton,” of
Z which less developed examples have already been furnished by Cycloclypens, Tetero-
= 8tegina, Operculina, and Amphistegina,—its most distinctive peculiarity in Polystomella
= being its extraordinary thickness on the two lateral surfaces of all but the last formed
> whorl.
Z 183. The spire of Polystomella, like that of other nautiloid Foraminifera, commences
= in a central cell, the dimensions of which are extremely variable; the difference between
& the extremes of its 8ize being, in fact, not less remarkable than that which I have
= 8hown to present itself in Orbitolites (First Series, © 44). Thus in Plate XVII. fig. 3,
Z which represents a section of the five inner whorls of a full-grown specimen, taken
J through the equatorial plane, we trace a progressive diminution in the s8ize of the
: chambers as we approach the central cell, which is itself no larger than the chambers
i in nearest proximity to it. In fig. 4, on the other hand, which represents a correspond-
a ing section of the inner portion of another specimen, drawn under the same magnifying
power, we see that not only is the size of the earlier whorls and of their component
chambers considerably greater, but that the central cell alone occupies about the same
Space as the first 24 whorls of the specimen represented in fig. 3, The average seems
to be intermediate between these two extremes. The breadth of the snccessive whorls
increases much more gradually than in most other nautiloid Foraminifera, in this
respect resembling Nummulites rather than the recent forms described in former