the current is flowing, and leaves it at the station nearest to the point of the horizon
toward which it is flowing. In Table XI. the direct distances between the respective
terminal stations are given in the fourth column, and the telegraph distances in the
fifth. A few cases occur in which the difference is considerable, which is when the
railway route is circuitous. I may state here that the reason why the Margate—Ashford
telegraph route is nearly double that of the direct route, is because the wires make a
loop to Deal, and thence vi4 Ramsgate to Margate. The effect of this extra length of
Ayire being between the respective earth-plates is, of course, from the increase of resist-
ance, to diminish the value of the derived current. The Margate—Ashford is, as we
;Z8hall see hereafter, our most active circuit; it would show values still higher were the
Sconnecting wire in a direct line.
E I regretted to find that the returns which reached me of the telegraph disturbances
Zof August—September 1859 were unusually meagre. The fact appears to have been
hat the disturbance was of snch magnitude and of 80 long continuance, and this at the
Sbusy season when the telegraph is more than usually required, that our clerks were at
their wit's end to clear off the telegrams (which accumulated in their hands) by other
Joxs affected but less direct routes. At a time when observations would have been very
Shighly acceptable, they were too much occupied with their ordinary duties to make
Fnotes of the deflection of the needles and the changes. And I may here advert to the
Zircumstances with which we are 8urrounded, and the conditions under which our
Fobservations are made. The wires and telegraph instruments are erected for com-
Smercial purposes ; they are, as a rule, very fully occupied. The clerks or employs in
charge of the instruments have their various duties to discharge, and have not much
=time at their command. I am on this account the more indebted to them for the
Zinterest they have evinced in these observations, and the unusual diligence with which