-— determinations on hair or wool separately, and on a mixture of all other parts collect-

ively”"—is obtained, as the description indicates, by duplicate determinations on #0
series of parts only. The last column, on the other hand, is obtained entirely by caleu-
A lation, as a check upon the percentages of nitrogen made by direct experimental deter-
8 mination. The method of calculation is as follows :—From the percentage of the crude
b= dry substance, remaining after the removal of most of the fat by melting and expression,
J the fat afterwards extracted by ether is deducted. From the result 80 obtained, is
= next deducted the amount of the mineral matter. The remainder—the water, the fat,
> and the mineral matter, being thus all excluded—consists, of course, of nitrogenous
S compounds of some kind or other. With the view of founding an estimate as to
£ the probable amount of nitrogen contained in the mixed nitrogenous matter of entire
:Z animal bodies, upon a basis of something like specific and detailed facts, we have in
= vain endeavoured to find sufficient published data for estimating the probable relative
> proportions in the body of albumen, fibrin, (quas:) gelatin, or chondrin, &c. In the
> absence of any appropriate data on this subject, we have asumed, of necessity $0me-
= What arbitrarily, 6:3 as probably the nearest round number applicable as a divisor
2 of the crude nitrogenous substance of the animal bodies in question, to reduce it to
E nitrogen. This number, 6:3, 8upposes an average percentage of nitrogen in the mixed
Z'nitrogenous compounds, of 15873. This is slightly higher than in either albumen or
& fibrin; considerably higher than in chondrin; but on the other hand, considerably
lower than in gelatin*. It is probably, therefore, as good a figure as could be taken
Z under the circumstances, as some confirmation of nitrogen determinations made upon
Such heterogeneous matters, and of the propriety of their application to the objects we
S have in view.