99 feet sinking, some good beds of coal. When we ceased to sink we had, I believe,
some six or seven fathoms between us and the top of the uppermost bed of lignite
in your sections.” This estimate, as to the depth at which the © 5th” bed would have
been cut, is fully borne out by the dip of the beds and the distance of the shaft, if we
aszume that no * fault” exists in the interval and the dip remains constant. On both
these points we have direct confirmatory evidence for the distance of sixty-three fathoms
south of the pit, as subterranean workings have been carried s0 far, © by driving down
the dip,” and show that the beds exist in unbroken continuity and uniform inclination;
that is, the beds have been followed to a depth of 80 feet below the bottom of the
« Coal-pit.”

Though the workmen have named the 72nd the © Iast bed,” it is no more than an
expression of the fact that it is the last or lowest they work. That there are till lower
beds is certain, since Mr. Driver says, © I sank a shaft about 13 feet” (below the bottom
of the pit) © and cut two tolerable beds of coal.” 'The workmen speak of still earlier and
deeper borings, and state that thin layers, or © shells,” of lignite were found separated
by thick beds of © muddy clay.” Omitting these traditions, however, we are now in
possession of the following figures. The 72nd, or *last ” bed is, at the western end of
the pit, about 100 feet yertically below the surface of the plain ; or, measured at right
angles to the plane of stratification, we haye, to the base of this bed, a thickness for the
deposit of 125 feet*; the pit beds have been followed 80 feet lower, and lignite has
been cut 13 feet below the s0-called © last” bed; giving an aggregate of 218 feet,
inclusive of the © Head,” or upwards of 35 fathoms for the true Bovey deposit ; exclusive
of the beds mentioned by Mr. Diver as occurring in his shaft 135 fathoms south of the
pit, and irrespective of the facts that the bottom has certainly not been reached, and that