A © very bright.” In these cases, were one to judge from first appearances, the spark heats
< air much more than the jar-discharge, for it has much greater power to burn anything
S which it encounters; but its section is larger, because much of it is conducted by the
- air which surrounds it ; and besides, from the diminished resistance, the amount of heat
£ produced may be less, as well as less concentrated. We cannot ay it must be; we know
@t00 little of the nature of induction discharge to estimate the effect of changing rexist-
& ance, for if it be increased it is possible that part of the electricity may be discharged
= through the coil itself. It must also be kept in mind, that while the jar-discharge is
= almost instantaneous, the other, at least in part, has a sensible duration. It could, how-
Z ever, be easily decided by experiment whether more heat is evolved in the C.P. or R.
-2 discharge.
B Secondly, My induction machine, as I have already stated, can be used collaterally ;
5 in this case the quantity is double, and should have a fourfold heating power. In fact,
S its discharge (or rather the air which that discharge heats) fuses a piece of platinum
S wire, which the consecutive arrangement only reddens. Now, if the lines were produced
Z by mere heat, the spectrum of the former discharge should be far the brightest : it is
& not 50 in the red and green; in the violet there is a difference, but I think an unprac-
& tised observer would scarcely notice it. I however saw the lines beyond H more easily
S and further. Unless the temperature is sufficiently raised by a weaker discharge than
S either of these to bring out all the lines (which seems inconsistent with the effects
5 obtained by enlarging the jar), we might expect here, from the heat theory, a greater
change. It is, I think, worth pushing the trial further, and I intend to repeat the
experiment with an induction machine of much greater quantity, and at the same time
to ascertain if intensity also haye any influence.
