and regelation,” first introduced into the snbject in 1857. Now there is od ambiguity
whatever in this latter expression. © Fracture” means the breaking and splitting of the
ice regarded as a brittle and crystalline s0lid, and could never be intendes to have the
slightest reference to viscosity. In fact the expression is altogether inapplicable to any
body which can be called viscous, without what I should regard 858 violation of scien-
titic language. Still this, it may be 8aid, may be onlya want of striot accuracy of expres-
Sion, rather than of accuracy of conception. But if a notion of cracking and breaking, 80
foreign to any idea of plasticity, should be admitted, it could not be said that a glacier
moved as it is observed to move because it was plastic, but merely that it moved as if
it were plastic. The true inference from the motion would have been that glacial ice
possessed not necessarily real plasticity, a definite property of bodies, but a quasi-plasti-
city, which expresses no determinate property at all, but may consist with many different
properties. It merely expresses, in fact, the power of the component elements of the
mass of changing to a certain extent their relative positions. But this is not the pecu-
liar property of ice; it is common, indeed, to all bodies exposed to disruptive forces
which, as in the case of ice, the cohesive power is unable to withstand. The mass of
any other substance, as well as that of a glacier, will then be broken into fragments
sufficiently 8mall to allow it to follow the impulses of the external forces acting on it.
To say, therefore, that a glacier moves as if it were plastic is not to assign to ice any
property peculiar to itself, and therefore does not properly constitute a physical theory
of glacial motion at all.

5. But if we should pass over the difference between true plasticity and that which,
as we have pointed out, is merely apparent, there would still remain the great difficulty
which was only removed by the experiments of Mr. FARaDAay and Dr. 'TyxNDauL. Every