may be said to be continuous at the apex and the base respectively. On some occa-
sions the musculi papillares spring from the interior of the apex in two fascicular
bundles, the fibres of each bundle radiating and rapidly increasing in number as the
apex is receded from ; in others they spring from several smaller fasciculi, the fibres of
the fasciculi being arranged in two sets and remaining more or less distinct, 80 that each
musculus papillaris has a bifid appearance (Plate XII. fig. 15, s, yy). The musculi
papillares are principally of use in regulating the spiral action of the bicuspid valve,
which they do through the instrumentality of the chordz tendineze. They are also
useful, from projecting into the ventricular cavity, in reducing the blood to a state of
S quiescence during the diastole. During the systole they act as spiral lavers, and scoop
© the blood out of the interior of the ventricle by communicating to it a gliding spiral
= movement.
S Situated between the musculi papillares, and, in fact, occupying the spiral interspaces
© or hollows occasioned by their projecting into the ventricular cavity, are the carnew
5 columnz. The carne column, like the musculi papillares, proceed in a spiral nearly
5 vertical direction from right to left upwards. They are more developed in some
Z instances than in others. In the camel, red deer, and American elk they may be said
> to be altogether wanting (Plate XV. fig. 48). In the lion, leopard, horse, ox, and
= ass they are more or less rudimentary ; while in the mysticetus, armadillo, giraffe, and
S 8heep they attain a size which almost entitles them to rank with the musculi papillares
S themselves. In the human heart (Plate XII. fig. 15, 2) the carnee columnz consist of
& irregularly shaped, rounded muscular bands, arranged s0 as to form an intricate network
8, —80me of the bands being attached at both extremities, others throughout their entire
= extent. A portion of the fibres of the carnez> columne are continuous with the fibres
S of the external layer at the base; others derive attachment from the fibrous ring sur-