S parts in front of that fissure. It is certain, therefore, that the frontal lobes of the idiots'
Q 5 cerebra are not proportionally developed in comparison with the temporo-parietal regions.
PThe 8ame appears to me to be true likewise of the occipital lobe; but we may confine
Sthe argument here to the defective state of the frontal lobes.
Z Fully to appreciate the importance of the diminutive size of these last-named lobes,
2 we must take into account certain facts to be hereafter stated in detail, regarding the
internal structure of the cerebral hemispheres. The corpora striata in the idiots' brains
'Z are very small ; not merely absolutely, but also relatively to the size of the optic thalami,
Z the ordinary proportions between these two ganglia being actually reversed, the former
2 being usually much larger than the latter, whilst in the idiots' brains they are much
E8maller. Since in a series of normally developed fatuses the corpora striata, at all
E periods, form larger masses than the optic thalami, we have further evidence, within the
E idiots' brains themselves, of the fact already announced of an irregular and dispropor-
V tionate development of their parts. There is, indeed, an obvious correspondence between
Zthe diminutive size of the corpora striata and that of the frontal lobes; whilst the
=zrelatively larger optic thalami are asociated with a larger growth of the hinder portion,
= especially of the temporo-parietal regions.

The conclusions which we would draw from the preceding facts are these ;—First.
Instead of the idiots' cerebra having been uniformly and normally developed up to a
certain date (sﬆay the latter part of the seyenth month), and having then been subjected
to a general cessation of development, they haye experienced an inequality or irregu-
larity of evolution in certain of their parts. Secondly, Whilst all parts have been more
or less arrested, the frontal and occipital lobes have suffered more than the temporal
and parietal. Thirdly. Whilst both the large ganglia at the base of the cerebrum