garded as a possible hypothesis suggested by the facts; but nevertheless it has a very real
claim upon our consideration from the practical advantages which it has afforded in the
8tudy of the science. The atoms of the chemist fulfil a similar purpose in his calculations
to that fulfilled by balls in the estimation of probabilities. They afford a sImple and not
inaccurate image of the subject with which he is concerned, by which he is enabled to
reduce his problems to a concrete form, and thus at once to realize and to isolate them.
To forbid the use of such an image would be to impose a very Uunnecessary restriction
upon scientific methods. A. ball as the concrete s8ymbol of an indivisible whole, may
advantageously represent, as occasion requires, a unit of weight, a sImple weight, an
event. We are perfectly free, when it its our purpose, to make use of s8wch concep-
tions. Tt is, however, a fatal illusion to mistake the snggestions of fancy for the realities
of nature, and such a symbol becomes open to serious objection unless we carefully dis-
criminate between conjecture and fact. Under the baneful influence of such hypotheses
the methods of positive science lose their hold upon the mind, until at length we are
actually informed by the consistent advocates of these ideas that the science of chemistry
has no other field for its activity than the obscure region of atomic speculations.

Now a symbolic calculus affords the same indispensable aid which is given by the
atomic theory, but in a more truthful and effectual way. In the place of molecules
and atoms it offers, as the subject of scientific contemplation, a system of marks and
combinations of letters, which, however, we are not free to arrange and to interpret
according to the dictates of caprice, but of which each has a specific meaning assigned
to it in the calculus, from which the laws are deduced according to which it is permitted
to operate upon it. We are thus enabled to construct an accurate symbolic representa-
tion of the phenomena before us, on the fidelity of which we can rely. Such a system