My experience agrees with that of Professor E. Forprs, that the largest specimens are
obtained from deep water. The animals are generally brought up by the dredge either
actually clinging to Sea-weeds (usnally Laminaria) or to Zoophytes or Polyzoa, or in
such association with them as suggests the idea that their detachment has been effect
in the act of dredging. For reasons I shall presently give, T cannot by any means as
to the statement of Mr. J. V. 'TwomesoN?, that © this curious Star-fish is an animal not.
only free, but leading the most vagrant life of any of the tribe with which it has been.
hitherto as8ociated by naturalists,—at one time crawling about amongst submarine
plants, at others floating to and fro, adhering to thin fragments by means of its dorgal
claspers, or even 8wimming about after the manner of the Medusze.” It is quite true”
that, as stated by Mr. J. V. Tnoxrsox, and confirmed by Professor EpwarD Forbrs, an
Antedon placed freely in water will swim with considerable activity, moving back foremost
by advancing five arms at a time, and then the alternate five ; in fact I do not know any
animal of which the movements are more graceful than those of the © feather-star ” (as.
Professor EDwarD ForBEs appropriately called it). But I am quite satisfied from repeated
obseryations that these movements are not habitual to the animal, and are to be regarded
only in the light of a restless search after a new attachment, being kept up no longer
than is requisite for obtaining this. If an Antedon be placed in a large basin of sea»
water, having s8mooth sides and not containing any. object of which its dorsal cirrhi cat:
lay hold, the swimming action may continue (with occasional intermissions) for several
hours. But if a rough angular stone, a Sea-weed, a Zoophyte, a cluster of Serpulee, or
anything to which its dorsal cirrhi can attach themselves (Plate XXXI.) be placed in the
basin, the Antedon settles itself upon this, and if the attachment proves suitable, the
creature seldom changes it. I have kept a number of Antedons, without any other
animals, in the same Vivarium for several weeks together; and I have observed that the