Professor EDwarD ForBEs appropriately called it). But I am quite satisfied from repeated
obseryations that these movements are not habitual to the animal, and are to be regarded
only in the light of a restless search after a new attachment, being kept up no longer
than is requisite for obtaining this. If an Antedon be placed in a large basin of sea»
water, having s8mooth sides and not containing any. object of which its dorsal cirrhi cat:
lay hold, the swimming action may continue (with occasional intermissions) for several
hours. But if a rough angular stone, a Sea-weed, a Zoophyte, a cluster of Serpulee, or
anything to which its dorsal cirrhi can attach themselves (Plate XXXI.) be placed in the
basin, the Antedon settles itself upon this, and if the attachment proves suitable, the
creature seldom changes it. I have kept a number of Antedons, without any other
animals, in the same Vivarium for several weeks together; and I have observed that the
places of individuals which I could distinguish by some peculiarity of colour, were scarcely
at all altered during the whole period, —the amount of change, in fact, being little more
than would have been exhibited by an equal number of Actiniz. One fine specimen I
particularly noted as having firmly attached itself by the grasp of its dorsal cirrhi to the
tube of a Serpula ; and this it did not let go during the whole time of its captivity.

10. Thus, as regards the ordinary fixedness of its position, the condition of the adult
Antedon only differs from that of its Pentacrinoid larva in this ; that whereas the latter
necessarily remains fixed to the spot to which the base of its pedicle was originally
attached, the former can quit its hold when its attachment is no longer suitable to its
requirements, and can move from place to place in search of another. How intimate,
moreover, is the functional relation between the dorsal cirrhi of the adult Antedon, and
the stem of its Pentacrinoid larva, further appears from the fact that the cirrhi only
