& with, and this is in Heterakis vesicularis, in which EBERTH has represented$ three
kked, pear-shaped, glandular bodies in connexion with the anterior wall of the vagina ||.
N
E Really Phanoderma tuberculatum. + Unters, iber Nemat. Taf. ii. 24.
For figures 8ee © Monograph on Anguillulide.”
& Wiirzb. Naturwissensch. Zeitsch. 1860, Erst. Bd. Taf. iti. 21.
Before dismissing the 8ubject of the glandular and 8ecretory organs of these animals, this seems a suitable
le for me to record 8ome of the remarkable effects invariably produced upon myself whilst working at the
my of Ascaris megalocephala from the Horse. Emanations from this animal had the most decided and
nous influence upon me, and this not only when the animal was in the fresh state, but after it had been
erved in methylated spirit for two years, and even then macerated in a 8olution of chloride of lime for several
ours before it was 8ubmitted to examination. T first examined this species in the spring of 1863, when certain
trange effects were produced which I was enabled to trace absolutely to the fact of my working with this animal.
hese were a greatly increased secretion from the Schneiderian membrane, with irritation of it, causing conti-
mous sneezing, also irritation of the conjunctiva, with 8uch a sense of itching about the eyelids and caruncula
webrymalis as to make it extremely difficult to abstain from rubbing them. When they were rubbed this
mmediately gave rise to a swollen and puffed condition of the eyelids, swelling of the caruncula, and extreme
7e8cular injection of the conjunctiva, and if the rubbing was at all persisted in, actual effusion of fluid would
ake place under the conjunetiva, raising it from the subjacent sclerotic and cornea. A few minutes would 8uffice
0 produce these erious effects upon the eyes, but after a little bathing with cold water, and rest in the recum-
bent position for a couple of hours, they would have again resumed their natural condition. At the same time
that thee effects were produced upon the mucous membranes, the skin of the face and neck was also affected, 80
35 to cause a 8engation of itching something 8imilar to what exists in a mild attack of nettle-rash. If I continued

