first palatine tooth is much stronger than, and Separated by a short interspace from,
Succeeding. Each mandible is armed in front by two incisors and a canine tooth, m
or less confluent at the base, 80 that the three teeth together, when ground down by the
action of the upper incisor, present an uninterrupted oblique edge, most deeply chiselled
out towards the symphysis (figs. 6 & 7). The alveolar edge of the mandible is polished,
bearing about sixteen teeth as long as the number is complete; but (as in the maxil-
lary) the teeth are gradually lost from the front backwards, and there is, corresponding
to the remaining anterior maxillary tooth, a very shallow and long concavity scooped out
by the vertical and horizontal action of this tooth. The toothed, or rather serrated
hinder portion of the dentary fits closely between the maxillary and palatine series.
Dentition of young examples. —I have mentioned above that the upper incisors of a
full-grown example are notched; this is explained by the remarkable circumstance that
each is, in fact, composed of two teeth, which are conical and perfectly distinct in young
examples about 7 inches long (figs. 10: & 11). Also the incisors of the lower jaw are
separate to their base, and the lateral canine tooth is s0mewhat removed from them.
The other mandibulary, maxillary, and palatine teeth do not differ peculiarly from those
of older examples. No polished surface can be distinguished on the alveolar edges*,
Although the peculiarities mentioned render the dentition of Hatteria unique, I find
on examining a number of acrodont Lizards, that a recent and a fossil genus approach it

closely in this respect. Uromastys, an Agamoid genus inhabiting sandy plains of
Northern Africa and Hindostan, has a yery narrow, strong, single intermaxillary, arched
downwards and more or less overlapping the symphysis of the lower jaw, more 80 in
adult examples than in immature (figs. 12, 13, 15). . In a half-grown Uromastys hard-
wieki (fig. 14) the intermaxillary does not project below the level of the maxillary, and