yarious 8ets of fibres can be accurately traced, their direction contrasted, and their
relative position in the vesical parietes determined both from without and from within.
The varying degrees of thickness in the muscular wall can likewise readily be made
out. The prostate has been examined by slicing it in all directions, and by mace-
rating it and tracing out the fibres by the aid of needles. My dissections, some
8ixty in number, have in all instances supplied me with my description, and
have for the most part been carefully photographed in illustration. They are pre-
seryed and catalogued in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land; and I take this opportunity of acknowledging my obligations to the Council
of the College for the facilities afforded me in their preparation. By adopting the
methods explained, I have obtained remarkably uniform results, and am fully persnaded
that the fibres of the bladder and prostate, contrary to the received opinion, are
curvilinear, and in fact spiral, or, more properly, lemniscate. The fibres, with few
exceptions, form figure-of-eight loops, and the loops are variously shaped, according as
they are superficial or deep. The most external and the most internal loops are attenu-
ated or drawn out, and in this respect resemble longitudinal or vertical fibres, the
deeper or more central ones being flattened from above downwards, and resembling
circular fibres. The loops from this circumstance are divisible into #wo orders, viz. an
external and an internal, and these orders may be subdivided, the former into three sets
of external loops, the latter into three sets of internal ones. An intermediate or central
set of loops occurs between. The seven sets of loops (external, internal, and central)
represent 80 many layers or strata more or less perfect, and are indicated as well by
their direction as by their position in- the yesical parietes, the first and seventh sets
(the most external and the most internal) being feebly developed, and having a more or
less longitudinal or vertical direction, the second and sixth sets consisting of stronger