ances presented by the actual specimens. 'The process of infiltration, which has in
every instance extended to every part of the organism, has obscured its most important
peculiarities. Fortunately in the discovery of Parkeria, and in the results of Dr. CARPEN-
TER'S researches on this new and most interesting type of FoRamivipera, we find a clue to
the reading of several portions that would otherwise have remained unintelligible. Many
of the specimens of Parkeria are completely infiltrated with a snbcrystalline mineral,
very 8imilar in physical characters to that occurring in the chambers of Zoftusia. But
there are others, which, either from the nature of the matrix, or from the compact
texture of the peripheral layer of the test, contain no such deposit ; but remain, as nearly
as can be judged, in the state of a dead and empty recent shell. In addition to these,
a few examples of Parkeria have been met with partially infiltrated ; only their exterior
layers having been consolidated by mineral deposit. Each of these three sets of speci-
mens has added its quota to the facts upon which the elucidation of a 8omewhat com-
plex organization depends ; and each has a distinct value in the study of Loftusia. By
comparing the appearance of corresponding portions of the infiltrated and uninfiltrated
test in Parkeria, reliable data are obtained from which to estimate the condition of
Loftusia prior to the filling up of its cavities with inorganic matter. Constant compa-
rison with the less altered type has been found needful, in order to demonstrate the
organization of the more obscure form ; and for the opportunity of pursuing the subject
in this way I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. CARPENTER.

32, The texture of the © test” has been stated to be Arenaceous, that is, built up of sand-
grains held together by a structureless calcareous cement. It is only necessary to refer
to it in this place, in 80 far as it affects the relation of the walls to the sarcode-cavities.
The granules yary considerably in size, but are comparatively much larger than those