(81) Neither are the anatomical points which SCHRODER VAN DER KOLK brings forward
in support of this opinion exactly as he states them to be. According to his theory, the
olivary bodies effect the bilateral movement of the tongue by their action on the hypo-
glossal nuclei, because the actions of these nuclei are unilateral ; © for the greater part
f cach nucleus,” he says © seems to be isvlated in its action, and not to be connected
ith that of the other side.” Now it is not true that the hypoglossal nuclei are scarcely
onnected with each other other; for, as may be seen, especially in longitudinal and
orizontal sections along the fourth ventricle, at different depths of the nuclei, there is
yery evident, decussation of fine fibres; and at the upper end of the nucleus, the com-
Snissural fibres between the anterior groups of cells are particularly striking, as may be
S>zeen at J, fig. 57, Plate XIV. VULPLAN speaks almost in derision of SCHRODER VAN DER
FKoux's theory of the action of the olivary bundles; but, nevertheless, there are not
nting anatomical facts in favour of the opinion that these bodies are subservient to
ticulate speech. In this process, the tongue, the lips, the jaws and the expiratory
_ are simultaneously combined in action. Now I have already shown that the
Zonnexion of the olivary bodies with the hypoglossal nuclei is yery striking. I have
aalso shown that a column of cells connected with longitudinal fibres and continuous with
She fasciculus teres, whence the facial nerve takes its origin, descends low down into the
Snedulla and lies at the back of the hypoglossal nucleus (se K', fig. 25, Plate X., and
figs. 38, 39 & 40, Plate XI.). Moreover, a band of fibres descending from the loop of
Sthe facial nerve (1", fig. 57, Plate XIV.) passes downwards beneath the hypoglossal
Enucleus (J). The close commissural connexion between the hypoglossal nucleus (J', fig.

31, Plate X.) and the vagal nucleus (IH, 1') has been already pointed out. And lastly,
®we have scen that the lower end of the column of cells constituting the nucleus of the