
10” or 15”, but if the slit is parallel to the edge then the inversion is complete. It is a very
beautiful fact. It is perhaps one that will modify our ideas on the origin of these lines.”
T have italicized the most important part of the letter.
Since the 20th of the present month, in consequence of a conversation on that day
with Mr. Ds La Rus, I have gone over my observations of the sun's limb with great
care, and have also reexamined Mr. Ds La Ruz's photographs with a view to ascertain
the evidence which they give of the continuity of the envelope. The result strongly
confirms my former views. It is true that the photographs do not show a continuous
chromosphere of anything like uniform thickness ; but that arises from the fact that the
only part of the swn's limb where the envelope was visible at all during totality
happened to be covered by irregular prominences, which were probably very abundant
at the time. In fact, owing to the relative sizes of the swn and moon during the eclipse
of 1860, and the direction of the moon's motion, the top and bottom of the sun's limb,
as shown in plate 15 of Mr. De La Rux's memoir, were considerably within the moon's
limb during the totality; only small portions of the sun's limb on the preceding and
the following sides were uncovered, and there the chromosphere is seen to be almost
continuous, though, as I have said, very irregular. The absolute want of continuity in
the photographs, which, as far as I recollect, is not obseryable in Mr. Dz La Rus's hand
drawing, is not a final argument against its real spectroscopic continuity, On the 24th
of November 1868, when I had an opportunity of observing the sun, I employed the whole
time in examining into the absolute continuity of the chromosphere; I was enabled,
until interrupted by clonds, to examine continuously and carefully about 300 degrees
of the 8wn's contour, and during the time I did not for one moment lose sight of the
chromosphere spectrum. It is very gratifying to find that photographs taken many