pezium as well as a good Cauchoix object-glass of 6:5 inch ; this gives 1-31 for the ratio.
'The only two definite measures which I know are; 4th. Mr. Porrer found that a 4-inch
object-glass by DoLLoND transmitted only 0-66 of the incident lightf. Lastly, Act
ascertained that an object-glass of 2:5 aperture was as bright as a Newtonian of 4 the
aperture; this would give 36 inches for the equivalent of the 4-feet reflector; but what
has been already stated will show that it would be far short of this}.

As to defining power, it is certain that specula can be finished to possess this in the
highest degree, while their great angle of aperture with the absence of the secondary
spectrum and of diffraction-rings adds greatly to their distinctness. The champions of
the achromatic rely entirely on its power of showing small stars, which they assert are
not visible in the reflector. This, however, is not proved; ſor it is no proof that because
a star does not appear in the drawing of a nebula it was therefore invisible, the fact
being that the obseryer's attention was directed to a different object. The effect of this
is shown, among other examples, by the fifth star of the trapezinm, and the dark ring
of Saturn, which were long overlooked in telescopes which showed them easily when
they were looked for. Besides, minute points of intrinsic brightness are brought out
by high powers, but are quite invisible with the low ones which are used for nebuke ;
but the case is very different with faint objects of sensible diameter. 'That any com-
parison may tell the truth, it should be made with the same power, at the same time
(for many mall stars are believed to be yariable), and by the same eye. The only real
adyantage of the achromatic is that, from its 8maller aperture, it is less disturbed by the
air's unsteadiness. But long before it reached a size equivalent to the 4-feet this differ-
ence would disappear, and a part of it is remoyed by the arrangement described in the
next section.