dually down it. It was followed by a complicated cloud-figure, and it again by a vase-
shaped nebula fainter than either. At the end of fifteen minutes a body of light, which,
considering the amount of matter involved, was simply astonishing, was discharged from
the cloud. In one position of the Nicol this cloud was a salmon-colour, in the other a
blue-green. When a plate of tourmaline, with its axis parallel to the beam, was passed
along in front of the cloud, at some places it showed a particularly vivid blue-green.
When placed perpendicular at these places, the field of the crystal was a yellow-green.
1 doubt whether spectrum analysis itself is competent to deal with more minute traces
of matter than those revealed by actinic decomposition. TI think it probable that if the
weight of the cloud formed in this experiment were multiplied by trillions it would not
amount to a single grain. Bodies placed behind it were scen undimmed through the
cloud. 'The flame of a candle suffered no sensible diminution of its light. It was easy
to read through the cloud a page which the cloud itself illuminated. In fact the cloud
was a comet's tail on a s8mall scale. It proved that matter of almost infinite tenuity is
competent to shed forth light of similar quality, and in far greater quantity than that
discharged by the tails of comets *.
'These facts render the statement intelligible that even when all reasonable precautions
appear to have been taken it is not easy to escape every trace of chemical action on
firss charging the experimental tube even with an inert substance. In my earlier
experiments, when distilled water only was employed to cleanse the tube, the first
experiment with air alone was sure to develope an actinic cloud of a beautiful fern-
leaf pattern. And eyen now, after the most careful employment of the soft s0ap and
Hot water, the first charge of pure nitric, or of pure hydrochloric acid often developes a
blue and exceedingly delicate actinic cloud. As regards the optical question, these irre-
gular clouds exhibit some of the finest effects. One additional fact will illustrate a class