of the small stem represented in figures 9 & 10 removes much of the existing obscurity
on this subject. Of all the scores of microscopic sections of stems of which I have
either made or examined, it is remarkable that two examples alone exhibited evi-
dences of the existence of a bark, all the rest having been decorticated. The same
observation is applicable to those figured by Mr. Bixxey, in none of which is this tissue
seen. These facts show that the cohesion between the bark and the woody zone must,
have been exceedingly slight, at least in the small fragments inclosed in the ironstone
nodules from which the majority of our specimens retaining their structure have been
derived.

The entire diameter of the s8mall stem referred to is 2 of an inch. The thickness of
the woody zone at the internode is about +05. At its narrowest part the thickness of
the bark is 025, whilst it becomes very much thicker at the nodes. It has in fact been
a rather thick parenchymatous layer, in which the cells were very irregular both in size
and distribution. Some few cells of large size appear dispersed amongst others of smaller
dimensions. There is no trace of linear or other special arrangement of these cells,
either in the transvyerse (fig. 9) or yertical (fig. 10) sections. Where the bark crosses the
node, in the latter section, its surface has become somewhat disintegrated ; but though
Mr. BureerworTH and myself have prepared several sections of the specimen, I haye
not been able to discover the slightest trace of vascular bundles, or eyen of solitary
vessels crossing the cellular parenchyma. The peripheral outline of the vascular woody
zone at this point is sharp and well defined, and the course of the yessels undisturbed *.
The only difference seen between the longitudinal, tangential, and transyerse sections,
is a slight vertical elongation of the cells in the two former. The cells of the outer-
most surface differ little if at all from those of the interior, and I detect no trace of a