ad in Plate XVIL tig. 8) is about 45,000 foot-tons, equalling the product of the displace-
ment in tons by about one eighty-eighth of the ship's length. The * Bellerophon” may
be taken as an opposite limiting case, in 0 far as strain on the midship part is concerned,
for the hogging-moment there does not exceed 100 foot-tons. Even at the station of
absolute maximum hogging-moment (ec in Plate XVII. fig. 9) for this ship the strain
only reaches 12,000 foot-tons, equalling the product of the displacement by about the
hundred-and-seventy-sixth (+45) part of the length. It will thus be seen that the changes
made in the * Bellerophon ' from the © Minotaur * have had the effect of rendering the
maximum bending-moment about one fourth what it would have been if the long fine
type had been conformed to. I may add that the concentration of weights amidships,
due to the adoption of the central battery-and-belt system, has had much to do with
this; while it has been shown that sagging-moments do not result from the excess of
weights amidships. 'This fact adds one more to the numerous advantages previously
shown to be possessed by this system, as compared with the system of complete protection
exemplified in the © Minotaur,” 'The case of the © Audacious * (illustrated by Plate XVII.
tig. 10) gives further support to this view. 'The hogging-moment amidships does not
exceed 3400 foot-tons, and that at the section of absolute maximum strain in the after
body is only 11,000 foot-tons,—that is, equals the product of the displacement by about
the hundred-and-fiftieth (44g) part of the length. With respect to the type represented
by the © Victoria and Albert,” it will be sufficient to state that the maximum hogging-
moment (at @ a, Plate XVI. fig. 7) is about 5080 foot-tons, equalling the product of
the displacement by the hundred-and-fortieth (27) part of the length of this ship.
Hence it follows that in certain classes of unarmoured ships, with excess of weight
amidships, moderate bending-strains may be anticipated, and that when sagging-strains
exist their amount is comparatively small.