Tiger, and no match for ponderous Diprotodonts and Nototheriums”®*,
Tf the carnassial tooth were selected instead of an incisor, it would show on the aboye
basis that Thylacoleo was *© far superior in strength and carnivority to the modern Tigers
and Lions.” But I would submit that the test of relative size of a single tooth, if even
the answerable or homologous one were recognized by the tester, is not a decisive or
sufficient one in the present question.
It is evident that Mr. KReper's figures 7 & 8 are sections of the canine, not the
incisor, of the Tiger. But if that tooth in the Zippopotamus were exemplified by a
Similar section, it would be no element, or a very deceptive one, in concluding as to
strength or carnivority. The canines of Moschus and other like instances will at once
suggest themselves to the competent Comparative Anatomist.
To the assertion of the © gigantic herbivorous Nototherium ” &c. being © many times
as large as the Thylacoleo”F, I will oppose a few matters of fact and mensuration. The
length of the skull of the largest species of Nototherium (NV. Mitchelli) is 1 foot 6 inches Þ;
that of the skull of Thylacoleo carnifer is 10 inches 8 lines: were the occipital ridge and
spine entire in the specimen measured (Plate XIV.) it might be set down at 11 inches.
It. will be within the bounds of accuracy to say that the Notothere was twice as large as
the Thylacoleo, not more. The skull of the Diprotodon is 3 feet in length; it is, how-
ever, large in proportion to the trunk and limbs ; bulk for bulk, it was probably not
much larger in comparison with the Thylacoleo than is the Giraffe in proportion to its
destroyer the Lion. The disproportion between the Wolverene (Gulo luscus) and its
prey the Reindeer must be greater than that which the dimensions of the known fossils
of Thylacoleo and Diprotodon suggest. The length of a Lion's skull before me is 1 foot;
that of the skull of a South-African Giraffe is 2 feet 2 inches. Tf we next compare, not
a single tooth merely, but the whole lethal tooth-weapons of 7hylacoleo and Felis tigris,