© periphery of the old ones, that their woody wedges are disposed in radiating lamine, as
2 in the Conifere, and that these laminze are separated by medullary rays of which the
Z cells exhibit a mural arrangement. Whatever name may be given to the genetic mate-
S rial out of which these new investing layers develop, whether we choose to term. it
5 cambium or meristem, we have here very manifestly a form of exogenous growth.
'D That this exogenous structure belongs, as Professor KixG long ago pointed out, to a
Ssystem of vessels wholly independent of and distinct from the medullary cylinder is
Z clear. What its functions may be is not equally clear. It undoubtedly gave strength
:= to the trunk and branches of the tree, but it contributed nothing directly to the nutrition
2 of the leaves. The leaf-bundles pass through it, but they clearly have no further
S connexion with it than results from that positional relationship. When I wrote the
2 second memoir of this series I had not ascertained 80 clearly as I have since done the
Z relations of these foliar bundles. Two facts, however, require further notice. One is that
2 in that memoir I described a unique bit of a Diplozylon-stem in which some vascular
Z bundles were given off from the ligneous zone, but whether or not they were foliar I
E cannot 8ay*. The otherrelates to S{igmaria. That this is the root of a Lepidodendroid
& plant is unquestionable. It is also well known that the vascular medullary cylinder is
& not represented in it. The pith, which is large, is in direct contact with the inner surface
65 of the exogenous woody zone. Remembering the apparent origin of the medullary
S cylinder from the leaf-bundles, we can understand the possibility that the downward
E prolongations of them would not reach the roots. But, as T have illustrated in my last
= memoir, the exogenous woody axis of Stigmaria does give off the vascular bundles to the
rootlets. Hence it would appear that the nutritive fluids were absorbed by the rootlets
and transmitted up the stem primarily by the vessels of the exogenous zone ; but in
order that those fluids should reach the leaves, they had to be transferred, by some lateral