that approaching it from the opposite direction. The position of the vascular bundle of
each petiole is now very distinctly marked by a small semilunar opening (m), from which
the vessels have disappeared. A corresponding section of the specimen represented by
fig. 20 displays this sharply defined semilunar orifice yet more strikingly.

The section Plate XXVI. fig. 19 is a transverse one, made in the line w, x of fig. 16,
80 as to intersect some of the petioles near their extremities, and yet at right angles to
their longer axes, as is done at 7. They are here seen to have become yet thinner and
more flattened at their central portions, though retaining the central groove on each
upper surface. The 8ame regularity in the superposition of the thin margins is found
here as in fig. 18. Fig. 19, & represents the layer of tubular prosenchyma, and 7 the
turgid bases of three more petioles. That the latter only exhibit the marginal membra-
nous expansion on one side (19, 7') is due to the fact that the section has passed obliquely
through the petioles, and only crossed in the plane of those expansions on one side.
Plate XXVI. fig. 20 is a longitudinal section of a fragment of the same species of Lepi-
dodendron as the last, supplied to me by Mr. WurrTAkER, of Oldham, and which I have
figured because it displays very clearly the somewhat elongated form of parenchyma of
which these petioles consist. At their free extremities the latter have become yet more
membranous than is the case with those of the corresponding, but less highly magnified,
figure 16. This difference indicates that the shrivelling process incident upon the decay
of the leaves has been, as might be expected, a gradual one; and that by the time it
reached the portions of the petioles represented in the tangential section fig. 17, a
natural cicatrix would have been formed at which the decay would be arrested, and which,
when the shrivelled portion had fallen away, would exhibit the ordinary lozenge-shaped
Scars 8een in the common examples of Lepidodendron. The generic distinctions that