224 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON ON THE ORGANIZATION

gated as to constitute a distinct bast-layer, which has exhibited a constant tendency to
separate itself from the other subjacent cortical tissues. Outside this bast-layer we have
the superficial epidermis, consisting of thick-walled parenchyma, which also constitutes
the tisxue composing the bases of the leaves.

These arrangements are repeated with yariations of detail throughout the entire
Lepidodendroid series. In Mr. Bixxer's Sigillaria vascutaris (Plate XXV. fig. 8) we
find the yascular part of the medullary axis retreating towards its periphery, but with an
undefined inner margin. In Diplozylon there is reason to believe that it had become
altogether peripheral, and had a sharply defined inner boundary line, though this latter
fact cannot be absolutely affirmed until a specimen is found with the whole of the
medullary tissues preserved. In the same two plants we find a corresponding adyance
in the thickness of the radiating woody cylinder and in the development of the medullary
rays. The other genera allied to Lepidodendron exhibit structures of the same type. In

structure of the entire bark, as well as some other important points in their history. Immediately surrounding
the medullary vascular cylinder is a layer of delicate parenchyma, the cells of which average about *166 in
diameter ; these cells aro arranged in columns which proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, diverging from
the perpendicular at an angle of about 35%, The entire thickness of this innermost parenchyma is about the
eighth of an inch (:125). Externally to it is the ordinary coarser parenchymatous layer, inyested in its turn by
the prosenchymatons one, which again is enclosed in whab I have recently designated the subepidermal paren-
chyma. Thus wo hero 8eo distinetly exhibited the four layers of bark of which I haye spoken in other parts of
this memoir. The ordinary foliar yascular bundles, given off in greab numbers from the outer surface of the