pared an extensive series of jaws and parts of skulls from both localities, I have been
unable to detect any difference in them, and therefore the fossils from Puy must be
included under the same generic name as those from Hempstead. The only author
who has accepted the genus Pothriodon of AYMARD is Professor GERVAIs, who, in his
* Palcontologie Frangaise,” p. 192, says that the Z/yopotamus is to be distinguished
from Bothriodon; but I have not been able to find any reasons adduced in the de-
scriptions of the two genera why Professor GeERVa1s considers them distinct, or on what
characters he has founded his distinction. Notwithstanding the care with which I insti-
tuted my comparison, I could not detect any differences between the /yopotamidea from
Puy and those from Hempstead ; and, s0 far as I can see, their separation into two
distinct genera is entirely unfounded. Professor GERvAa1s has described many portions of
jaws from different localities in France, and has given them different specific names, the
distinction being founded on size and on the fact of their having been found in different
localities. As I reserve the discussion of specific differences for the end of my paper,
1 will not enter into the criticism of these doubtful species just now.

In the year 1861, Professor RiTIMEYER figured and described, with great accuracy,
some few upper molars of a small Hyopotamoid animal from Egerkingen. These teeth
had, however, been previously referred by H. v. Meyer to a 'inew genus, Tapinodon.
Professor RUTiMerER had only true molar teeth from Egerkingen, and as they really did
not present any fundamental difference from the Zlyopotami of Professor OwEN, he
considered them to belong to the same genus. 'The Egerkingen specimens being very
small, RiviMeyER separated them specifically under the name of /[yopotamus Gresslyt.
'This discovery was yery important, as it carried the genus into undoubted and even early
Eocene strata*. Then came the discovery of the wonderſully rich Eocene fauna of