S S by gravity downwards upon the resolved vertical force e (fig. 1) to such an extent
Jas to equal-the resistance to crushing of the rocks beneath in the directions # and ?7', the
:£ further effect of the tangential pressures in those directions must be expended in crushing
the rock between them to powder, where in some direction the solid can yield unequally,
Sor in forcing off the material in some other direction than in the vertical. It is difficult
'S to scee how any limit is assignable to mountain altitude upon Mr. Horkixs's hypothesis,
= unless by calling in other hypotheses for limiting the uplifting force itself, the intensity
pof which we cannot estimate in his case, inasmuch as its very nature is left unknown.
Z 37. If, then, in PrEvosrT's notion we find an adequate and consistent theory of elevatory
Sftorces, it is the writer's belief that in it also (when followed to its legitimate consequences
=in one direction) we possess the clue that shall ultimately lead us to an equally s8imple,
S adequate, and consistent theory of Vulcanicity as here about being unfolded.
—D 388. That the globe is hotter as we descend into it may be accepted as a fact, even from
V the yery limited number of trustworthy experiments we yet possess ; for artesian wells
2 and small borings are alone to be relied upon, mines and coal-pits giving (for reasons
5 not necessary here to enlarge upon) unreliable results.
Q 39. Andas weare certain that the geothermal conche of uniform annual temperature is
everywhere aboye the existing temperature of the celestial spaces, 80 our planet must be
a cooling globe; and if 80, in accordance with all we know of the materials of which it
consists, a contracting globe.

40. The rates of increment of temperature with depth, however, present great dis-
cordance even after we haye excluded cases (such as mines or coal-pits at work) likely to
contain accidental sources of error. Not only does the rate vary from 1* Fabr. in 15 feet of
depth to 1* in more than 200 (Marrer, © Neapolitan Earthquake Report,” vol. ii. p. 310),