part ii. of the © Comptes Rendus* for September 1850, p. 461 et $eg., and, at an earlier

EL. period, in the © Bulletin de la Socicts G6ologique de France,” vol. xi. p. 183 et eq. His
Q view is this, that, apart from the great deformations which hollowed out the ocean-beds,
Sas to which he is not quite s0 clear, all elevations of the earth's surface of the nature of
E hills or mountains (in general the rugose contour of its surface) have been produced,
X not by vertical forces directly coming from some unknown deep-seated source, but by
= vertical forces, the resulfants of tangential pressures, acting against each other in hori-
Spzontal or nearly horizontal directions, and transversely to the ridges or lines of elevation,
Sthese tangential pressures originating in the contraction of the earth's crust by secular
[=] S refrigeration. This view, which the writer believes to be true, has been followed out
Zby Daxa, the two Rogers in America, by Els Deg BeauxoNT and some other continental
B geologists, by showing how completely the observed facts fall into place and are account-
able for by it, but oppose themselves to the notion of a vertical primary force.
'Z 26. The Rey. O. FisHtn also, in an important paper * On the Elevation of Mountain-
Z chains, and Speculation on the Cause of Volcanic Heat ” (Cambridge Trans. vol. xi. p. ii,
21868),which the writer had no knowledge of until after the present paper had been written,
S has given support to PrEyosT's view, by proving the mechanical adequacy of the tangential
Spressure ue to refrigeration to the elevation of the highest mountains of our globe.
= Mr. Fisnar's views in the above paper as to the origin of volcanic heat are entirely
© different from those of the writer as here developed.
V 27. Upon Horxixs's view, all elevated parts must have conver surfaces, and, whether
SZ continents or ridges steep as the high Alps, must be $0mb6 or dome-like in contour; they
= must all present the evidences of tension during elevation and in orthogonal directions.
E But the careful geological surveys and sections made since PREvosT's day shovw that, on the