of the leaf carrying it out of the plane of the section. The thickness of this leaf ranges
between :0043 and -0086.

Besides the evidence afforded by the examples just described, I have obtained several
transverse sections made more or less in the plane of the foliar disk, and which display
the verticillate arrangement of the divergent leaves in the most, definite manner. One
of these is represented in Plate ITT. fig. 16 ; it will be observed that, in the expanded
portion of the disk (&"), the cells of the tissue evince somewhat more of a tendency to
assume a radial linear arrangement than is usual in the outer bark. The bases of
six linear leaves (1.94) are seen radiating from the lower and left-hand sides of the section
with considerable regularity. The breadth of each leaf is about 021. I discoyer no
trace of vascular tissues, either in the leaves themselves or amongst the cellular tissnes
of the foliar disk from which they arise; and it is a further curious fact that no
vacant spaces exist, either in the outer (4) or middle (4) bark, 8uch as are common
amongst the Lepidodendra, where they were originally occupied by vessels that have
disappeared. The transverse section of the central vascular axis, at this important
point of the stem, exhibits its usual appearance ; and it is obvious that, if any of the
very large vessels composing it had eyer been deflected into the leaves, their large size
must have made them conspicuous objects, whilst their divergence must haye left 8ome
considerable gap in the regularly concentric and radial lines of vessels; but no traces
of such conditions have been discovered. The leaves appear as if they consisted wholly
of cells, which, as we have already seen from Plate I. fig. 5, are mainly, if not entirely,
derived from the outer bark *, Unfortunately these foliar tissues are much disorganized
and rendered indistinct through carbonization, consequently the exact arrangement of
their component elements has yet to be made out; at the same time I have clear