test T required, viz. sunset varying one day with another from a depression of 13* to af
altitude of ome 34%, Accordingly I watched the corresponding effect on the air-lines,
and found beyond all question that as the bank rose and the corresponding swnset
occurred higher, the variable and air-lines all disappeared, each in its turn. This test
is of course most effectually applied to lines which require the lowest of sunsets to be
developed, and the behaviour of all lines is by no means the same. For instance, 813 is
almost as good as a clock to me, commencing to change s0 early as 2 or 3 P.M. ; whereas
712 (which is, in fact, the more prominent line eventually, and is, T believe, noticed here
for the first time) hardly presents the smallest change until the s8wn is under 1* of
altitude or thereabout. Similarly, my air-wall (above noticed) requires a low sunset,
but not 80 low as 712. The test just explained gave a visible connexion between the
atmospheric lines and the terrestrial atmosphere ; #. 6. the higher the sunset, the more
the air-lines were absent. TI state the fact thus briefly, notwithstanding that I tested
it day after day, and that I possess abundance of notes on the snbject; these notes,
however, are in the main repetitions, which have no interest once the fact has been
announced, and I therefore refrain from transcribing them.

7. It will be seen that in the portion extreme red to D there are some slight discre-
pancies between my map of 1870 and my present map; these are solely due to the far
greater powers of the new spectroscope, and not to any want of care in preparing the
earlier map: the additions are chiefly due to the same cause, and to some extent are the
results of greater skill, which experience may have brought me. Amongst the new
lines or bands are group 315-352, the additions about A, 460, 730, 950, and else-
where, not forgetting 712 (which, I repeat, is a very prominent air-line, but only 80 at a
very low sunset). For further discussion of the map now submitted to the Royal