interesting fact, as Conxnei, by the aid of experiments (see his latest researches on
Inflammation, Berlin, 1873), arrived at the conclusion that the walls of the blood-yessels
must necessarily in inflammation undergo some changes to cause the exudation of the
fluid and the formed parts of the blood, which, as is well known, represent very material
= morphological symptoms in inflammation.
S The tisse of the corium in general is slightly cedematous, the interfascicular spaces,
E 7. e. lymph-canalicular system, being larger and more clearly visible than in the normal
= condition. 'The connective-tisxue corpuscles, situated in the interfascicular system of
S Spaces, are recognizable at the same time in many places, their nuclei being more distinct
© than in the normal parts. In the interfascicular lymph-canalicular system of the
2 corium, chiefly where the blood-yessels are more numerous, 6. 9. around the glands,
> there are found lymph-corpuscles, which are the more numerous the nearer one
'Z approaches to the blood-yessels ; this fact enables us to say that they are probably all
= extravasated colourless blood-corpuscles. Whereas the lymphatic yessels of the corium
S are hardly to be found in the corium of healthy skin after simple hardening, they
© are in our case easily traced, being distended and more or less filled with a transparent,
© homogeneous or finely granular substance, which in all its appearances resembles
s coagulated plasma,
The changes of the subcutaneous tissue are similar, only much slighter; they diminish
S more and more towards the depth. We have therefore only such changes as one
EZ might expect in inflammation in the strictest sense of the word, viz. distended blood.
g vexsels, altered walls of blood-yessels, exudation of plasma, and extravasation of colourless
£ blood-corpuscles, seen in the distended lymph-canalicular system and distended lymphatic
YZ vessels. The greater distinctness of the connective-tissue corpuscles and the enlarge-
s ment and greater transparency of the rete Malpighii are probably due to the increased