S thecorium—in the earlier stages, as mentioned above, only in the deeper stratum of the
S corium; later also in the superficial stratum of the corium and the subcutaneous
= tissue. In the latter the fructification is scen in the later stages to go on with such
& rapidity that the distended interfascicular lymph-spaces at some parts become filled with
'Z 4@ zooglealike mass, in which here and there the minute spores, the products of division
= of the spores previously mentioned, can be still recognized to form necklace-like chains.
B In Plate 32. fig. 13 this zooglcea is represented in lymphatic vessels and in the inter-
> Afascicular spaces of the subcutaneous tissue.
S We return now to the structural changes in the skin of the pock. In pocks which
S have been cut out two to three days after their appearance, the rete Malpighii is seen
© to be many times thicker than in the normal parts, and thickest in the centre. The
zZ cells of the deeper and middle strata are enlarged and sharply outlined. Many of them
S are in the condition of multiplication, as may be deduced from the fact that they possess
g two nuclei, and that, particularly in the deepest layer, the nuclei are much closer to
& eachother, 7.6, more numerous. In the flattened cells of the more superficial strata there
SZ lie close to the poles of the oblong nucleus highly refractive granules, which are largest
s and most numerous in the most superficial cells, and become smaller and scarcer in the
£ deeper strata; at the same time the nuclei of many cells of the superficial strata look
S as if they were yacuolated, viz. sharply outlined with perfectly clear contents.

At the central parts of the pock the rete Malpighii shows other important changes :
isolated epithelial cells, or, as is oftener the case, small groups of two, four, or a greater
number, are met with, which differ from the rest in containing much coarser granules
and possexsing very distinct sharp outlines ; they are at the same time always more or
less rounded: in some of them the nucleus is double or is in the act of division ;