The disappearance of respiration-curves can only be due to some alteration of the
vasomotor centre, whose oscillations of activity are the cause of them. The marked
fall of blood-pressure might be due to one or more of the following circumstances :—
1, paralysis of the vasomotor centre; 2, peripheral irritation of depressor nerves ; 3,
relaxation of arterial tonus due to other causes than vasomotor paralysis ; 4, weakening
of the heart's action. The alteration of the pulse may be caused by :—1, some action
upon the yagi; 2, poisoning of intracardiac centres; 3, poisoning of muscular substance
of heart ; 4, diminution of blood-pressure. As previous division of the vagi does not
seem in the least to alter the circulatory effects of poisoning by vanadium (Experiments
XLVIIL. & XLIX.), it is clear that none of these effects can be attributed to an action
on the vagi. It is, moreover, evident, from experiments detailed elsewhere in this
paper, that there is no poisoning of the muscular substance of the heart itself. Further,
the fact that vanadium does not paralyze unstriped muscles in other regions of the body
(as in the intestines) renders it probable that there is no direct action upon the muscular
walls of the arteries. We may therefore at once eliminate both these possibilities
from the question. It will be seen on comparison that the fluctuations in blood-
pressure and in pulse are only sometimes coincident ; neither will, therefore, serve as
sufficient explanation of the other, although the effects may be partially due to their
interaction. There remains, therefore, the vasomotor system of nerves, with the
depressors and the intracardiac nervous mechanism, to which we must look for the
chief explanation of the phenomena under consideration. From the experiments in
which the cord was divided in the neck, we gather that the effects of vanadium-poisoning
upon the pulse occurred as usual, while the diminution and fluctuations in blood-
pressure were no longer visible, being indeed replaced by a rise. As in those experi-
ments the yasomotor centre, the accelerators, and the vagus centre and terminations