suaded, however, that it is a phenomenon well meriting the attention of physiologists.
When the swimming-bell of Sarsia has had its margin remoyed, and 80, as proved
by hundreds of similar experiments, has been entirely deprived of its locomotor
centres, nevertheless in response to electrical stimulation, instead of giving a single
contraction to make or break," it may begin a highly peculiar motion of a flurried,
shivering character, which lasts without intermission for periods varying from a few
8econds to half an hour. I never but once saw a similar motion in the perfect animal,
and this was in the case of a specimen which was dying from having been poisoned
with iron-rust. The motion, I think, may be explained by supposing that the various
parts of the muscle-layer are contracting without coordination ; but why they should
sometimes do this in response to stimulation, and why, when they do this, they should
continue the action 80 long—these questions I cannot answer. In the case of 80
peculiar a phenomenon, however, it is necessary that I should detail all the facts T have
been able to collect. I haye never seen any similar or corresponding action performed
by the paralyzed bells of other Medusids, and even in the case of Saris its occurrence
is comparatively rare. When it does occur, however, it is always continuous; that is
to say, it never spontaneously recommences after having once ceased. As already
stated, the period of its duration is extremely variable; but when this period is long,
it is observable that the shivering motions become feebler and feebler, until they even-
tually fade away into quiescence. The animal is then quite dead to all further stimu-
lation. Beyond saying that the peculiar motions in question never originate independently
of stimulation, I cannot give much further account of the conditions which determine
their commencement. The following instances are quoted from my notes in extenso —

* A healthy individual with centres removed, after failing to respond to either make