series of stories by complete diaphragms or transverse floors, the septal arrangements
being rudimentary or represented by trabeculze, which have a greater or less extension
in the intertabulate spaces. In his description of the Milleporidz (7. c.) M. M.-Evwarps
refers to Prof. Agass1z's then recent paper, entitled ©Les Animaux des Millepores
8ont des Acalephes Hydroides et non des Polypes,” Bibl. Univ. de Gendve, Arch. des
Sci., Mai 1859, t. v. p. 80, to the following effect :—© At the moment of sending this
chapter (on the Madreporaria Tabulata) to the press, we learn that Prof. AGa881z has
studied the mode of the organization of the soft parts of the Milleporide, and has
proved that these Zoophytes are not corals, but Hydroid Acalephs very nearly
related to the Hydractiniz. Prof. Dana shares the opinion of Prof. AGas81z; and
Acas81z believes that the Favositidz, as well as all other species of which the septa
are not continued vertically, ought to be considered strangers to the class of corals.
But the facts on which he grounds his opinion are not as yet sufficiently ascertained
for us to be able to form a critical opinion of their value; and until more ample in-
formation is received, we shall continue to rank the polyps in question according to
the method adopted in our former works.”

Professor L. AGas81z, in his © Contributions to the Natural History of the United States,”
vol. iii. plate 15, figured the animals of Millepora. He places Millepora, Heliopora,
Seriatopora, Pocillopora, the whole of the Tabulate and Rugose Corals, with the Hydroid
Acalephe. The principal distinction between these sections and true polyps relied on
by AGa881z, as quoted in BroxN's *Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs' (Actinozoa,
1860, p. 45, note), is as follows :—* True polyps should have unbroken'septa throughout
the whole calicle, with only separated horizontal partitions between them. On the
other hand, the hydroid Favositide had complete horizontal partitions between inter-