cular bundles has connected with it a large round or semilunar orifice. Tn the enlarged
fig. 14 one of these orifices (c) is clearly scen to be enclosed within the cellular bundle
$heath e. At first T was convinced that each of these was a large gum-canal which
formed part of the bundle. Fig. 9 represents a small portion of one of several sections
which I made of one specimen, in which very few bundles exhibit any trace of similar
canals closely associated with the bundles, though such canals exist independently
(fig. 9, c) in large numbers and of conspicnous size. On dissecting Captain Arkex's
Specimen, I found that many of its bundles were as deyoid of open spaces as fig. 9.
Others had semilunar lacunz like those of fig. 1, whilst others were 80 exceedingly large
and irregular as to form a cavity entirely surrounding the vascular bundle. One of these
irregular orifices is seen in fig. 7, c, &; and on comparing it with the small gum-canals
(ce, c) in the same figure it becomes obvious that they are different structures. These
and other similar facts led me to distrust my first conclusions, and made it probable that
these open passages were rather spaces caused by the detachment of the vascular bundles
from the surrounding cellular tissne, snch as we frequently observe in sections of the
recent Lycopods. Further studies of these sections led me to conclude that the expla-
nation may be found in a combination of these hypotheses. Thus in fig. 8, e we have
an unmistakable gum-canal associated with the large bundle represented there. In
fig. 5, c similar combinations exist. In fig. 10, on the other hand, which is a longitudinal
section of one of the bundles belonging to the same specimen as fig. 8, we have no gum-
canal. Yet, as T have already shown, we cannot for a moment believe fig. 7, c to repre-
sent, in any sense, the small canals (ec, c) of the same figure. TI conclude, therefore, that
snch canals are wholly absent from some bundles as in fig. 9; that they are distinetly
present, but of small size, in such bundles as fig. 8, c; that they exist in similar position,
but of much larger dimensions, in such cases as figs. 1, 2-6, & 14; and that in examples