partially separate the clusters of vessels from each other. The cells, as seen in the
transverse section, are of the ordinary parenchymatous type, varying in size from *003
to -00125*. Some of these cells either contain isolated secondary cells within their
cavities, or distinct primordial utricles, detached from their proper cell wall. Scattered
amongst them also are some 8mall yessels. In the longitudinal section (fig. 14) the cells
of the medulla are seen to be of irregular shapes and sizes, but often narrow, elongated
longitudinally, and square-ended. The vessels of the surrounding cylinder are generally of
large size, ranging from *007 to -005 in diameter, and with strong, sharply defined walls;
but at the inner and outer boundaries of the cylinder we have many small ones, not
exceeding 002, resembling, in this respect, some vessels which are scattered through
the medullary parenchyma. On examining the longitudinal section (fig. 14) of this
axial cylinder, we find that the vessels are of the usual barred type, and that the largest
of them occupy the central parts of each cluster—a fact als shown by fig. 13. But
the most remarkable feature of these vessels is further illustrated by figs. 15 & 16. In
fig. 15 the dark, strongly marked walls of the vessels enclose densely packed masses of
cells (7). The longitudinal section, made nearly through the centre of a single vessel
(fig. 16), shows it to be similarly crowded with 7ylose throughout its entire length.
The existence of this singular tissne in the vessels of recent plants has long been
known to botanists, and Professor W. 'T. TnisLEToN Dyer has described a similar tissue
existing in a fossil Tertiary exogenous wood from Herne Bay and the Isle of ThanetF;
but $0 far as I am aware this is the first recorded example of its appearance in a fossil
Cryptogam, and especially in one from these ancient Carboniferous deposits. The fact
of the existence of Zylose at this remote period affords a striking example of the
persistence of types of elementary tissne, additional to those which we already possess.
