the group into subsections, according as the specimens appear to have features in
common, such as that of Zygopteroides, Stauropteroides, &c. By this plan we avoid
the absurdity of creating numerous meaningless genera, each one of which is only
represented by fragmentary parts of plants. Hence I would designate the plant which
I have just described Rachiopteris corrugata, and include it, along with M. Rexavun's
Zygopteris Brongniarti and Anachoropteris Decaisnii *, in the 8ubgroup of Anachoro-
pteroides, the distinguishing features of this group being the possession of a central
yascular axis which forms a virtually closed cylinder surrounding a cellular medulla—two
Qfeatures in which these stems of Ferns approach very closely to those of the type of
© Lepidodendron represented by Lepidodendron 1arcourtii. In the adoption of the above
Splan of classification T have benefited by some valuable hints from Dr. Hooker, who
Skindly gave me the advantage of his yast experience in the study of systematic botany.
S It has long been noticed as a remarkable fact that whilst the Oolitic ferns of the
SGristhorpe shales so frequently exhibit sori attached to their fronds, ferns with sporangia
Sjn 8itu are rare in the true Coal-measures. BRoNGNILART long ago figured a solitary
-Hleaflet of Neuropteris flexuoss which affords indications of sori upon its surface (V6g.
SFoxs. pl. 65. figs. 3, 34, & 3B). Conpa figured two examples, under the names of
Z enftenbergia elegans and Hawlea pulcherrimafF, im which these conditions exist ; and
Smore recently M. REexavLT has described two other examples under the names of
SBotryopteris dubius and B. forensia7, in which also the sporangia are found attached
Sto a branching axis. One of these species was from Autun, the other from St. Etienne.
EZProf. Scenes has figured a fertile frond of Palwopteris Hibernica (Traits de Pal.
EVe6get. vol. i. pl. xxxvi.). Mr. Bailey has represented the same fern in his © Figures of
ES Characteristic British Fossils* (pl. xxviii. fig. 1), and, still more lately, Mr. CarruTHERs
Ehas figured the same plant with fertile pinnules in the * Geological Magazine,” vol. ix.