S from Binns Cliff, in Burntisland, Fiteshire, for which I am indebted to my friend Mr.
= Grieve. Fig. 51 is the lateral surface of one of its fibres. Its structure differs in no
= material respect from those already described. The disks are sometimes in two rows,
HS sometimes in three, as represented in fig. 51. Though coming from s0 much lower @
5 geological horizon than those described in the preceding pages, I can detect no material
.£ difference between it and the Dadoxylons from the beds above the Millstone Grit.
:Z Fig. 92 is a portion of another fibre from a fragment from near Oldham. In it each
3 of the disks shows a vertical central line, partly crossed by an oblique one coming from
above downwards, but which becomes very indistinct after it has reached the more
> distinct yertical one. This is the only example I have met with from the Oldham
= deposits in which a trace of the central spot s0 universal in the bordered disks of living
© Conifers is to be seen.
Z These facts appear to me to justify the conclusion that the specimens described really
ES belonged to Gymnospermons plants allied to the Conifere. On comparing the sections
g of the Coalbrookdale specimen (figs. 33 & 36) with several recent forms we sce at a
& glance how close is the resemblance between them. Thus, on examining a longitudinal
© 8ection of a young branch of Tacys, we obtain an exact copy of fig. 36, the portion @
S being the liber, with its vasa propria and longitudinal resin-canals, whilst the parenchyma
5 (e) is a phelloderm layer, the cells of which, in the recent stem, are full of chlorophyl
A grains. Young shoots of Arauecaria braziliensis present similar resemblances. The
bark of my fossil exhibits no development of the phellem layer seen in Salisburia adi-
antifolia and similar stems. The other tissues equally display characteristic resemblances.
Thus the medulla is encased in a medullary sheath (fig. 35, 0), and this in turn is invested
by a xylem layer composed of thick-walled prosenchyma, without any admixture of true
vascular elements. Added to this we have the orientation of the leaf-bundles ; and,