'=) Lastly, the present hypothesis would further lead us to anticipate the fact that when
S Tiaropsis indicans is prepared as represented in fig. 8, the polypite refers a stimulus
5 applied anywhere in the mutilated nectocalyx to the band of tissue by which it is still
=] left in connexion with that organ ; for it is evident that, according to the hypothesis, the
= radial lines occupying such a band are the only ones whose irritation the polypite is able
S to perceive ; and hence it is to be expected that it should tend to refer to these particular
'S lines a source of irritation occurring anywhere in the mutilated bell*.

Z Tt is not quite 80 clear why, in the last-mentioned experiment, the polypite should
& tend to refer a seat of irritation to the unsevered nutrient tube, rather than to the tracts
FI

= * Tt may be objected that the fact of diffused excitability persisting aftor destruction of the localizing function
[= does not; prove that the same tissue-elements are concerned in the two cages. For instance, in fig. 1, Plate 30,
£ before introducing the cut «, a stimulus applied at þ would, as before stated, cause localizing motion of the
== polypite. Let us call the tissue-tracts by which this localizing motion is effected  @, and let us call all the
SZ other tracts belonging to the same system, but occurring in other parts of the hell, x '. Now the hypothesis
L- above explained supposes that after the cut « has been introduced, the random motions of the polypite which
5 ene on stimulating þ are due to an escape of the stimulus at @ from @ to #' a", 5, e. all oyer the bell. But
= the objector may ask, Why not suppose that the stimulus is conveyed to the polypite by some other tissue-element

altogether, e. g. by zz, and hence that the function of the radial elements & @ is exclusively that of enabling the
polypite to localize correctly ? Against this objection, of course, nothing can be urged, except that it merely
suggests a possibility, and this a very improbable one. If snch additional tissue-tracts are present, they must;
rezemble those treated of in the text in at least one distinetive feature, viz. in having the property of conveying