represented in the case of Aurelia by Plate 33 of my previous paper. In this way 1
converted the whole Mednsa into a ribbon-shaped piece of tiszue*; and on now stimu-
lating the marginal tisxue at one end of the ribbon, a portion of the latter would go
into a spasm. The object of this experiment was to ascertain how far into the ribbon-
shaped tissxue the spasmodic wave would penetrate. As I had expected, different
specimens manifested considerable differences in this respect ; but in all cases the degree
of penetration was astonishingly great. For it was the exception to find cases in which
the spasmodic wave failed to penetrate from end to end of a spiral strip caused by a
section that had been carried twice round the nectocalyx; and this is very astonishing
when we remember that the ordinary contractile waves, whether originated by stimu-
Jation of the contractile tissues, or arising spontaneously from the point of attachment
of the marginal strip, usually failed to penetrate further than a quarter of the way
round. But till more astonishing is the fact that these spasmodic waves will continue
to penetrate such a spiral strip even after the latter has been s8ubmitted to a system of
interdigitating cuts of a very severe description. Here, again, of course, considerable
individual differences as to tolerance of section occur; but the drawing in Plate 30 (fig. 3)
will convey some idea of the surprising amount of tolerance that is sometimes shown.
This figure explains itself, it having been drawn to measurement from a specimen in which
the spasmodic waves, started by stimulation of any point in the seyered margin @ 6,
would penetrate the whole of the strip c d e, while in the same specimen the is
contractile waves became blocked at d. |
(ec) Now we have here to deal with a class of facts which physiologists will recognize
as of a perfectly novel character. Why it should be that the very tenuous tracts of tisswe |
which I have named should have the property of responding even to a feeble 8timulus
by issing an impulse of a kind which throws the contractile tissnes into a spasm ;