media” *, As regards the appearance presented by Sarsi« when subjected to © this little
experiment,” the account just quoted is partly correct ; but Professor AGass1z must have
been over-hasty in concluding that, because the animals seemed to be thus * killed
instantaneously,” such was really the case. Nothing, indeed, could be more natural than
his conclusion ; for not only is the contrast between the active swimming-motions of the
Sarsia in the sea-water and their sudden cessation of all motion in the fresh water yery
suggestive of instantaneous death, but, a short time after immersion in the latter, their
contractile tissues, as Professor AGass1z observyed, become opalescent and whitish.
Nevertheless, if he had taken the precaution of again transferring the Sarsia to sea-
water, he would have found that the previous exposure to fresh water had not had the
effect which he ascribes to it. After a variable time his specimens would have resumed
their swimming-motions ; and although these might have had their vigour somewhat
impaired, the animals would have continued to live for an indefinite time—in fact quite
as long as other specimens which had never been removed from the sea-water. Even
after five minutes' immersion in fresh water, Sarsia will revive feebly on being again
restored to sea-water, although it may be two or three hours before they do 80; they
may then, however, live as long as other specimens. In many cases Sarsta will revive
even after ten minutes exposure ; but the time required for recovery is then very long,
and the subsequent pulsations are of an exceedingly feeble character. I never knew a
specimen survive an exposure of fifteen minutesF. In not a few cases, after immersion
in fresh water, the animal continues to pulsate feebly for some little time ; and, in all
cases, irritability of the contractile tissues persists for a little while after spontaneity has
ceased. The opalescence above referred to principally affects the polypite, tentacles,
and margin of the nectocalyx. While in fresh water the polypite and tentacles of Sarsia
are strongly retracted.