We have been much troubled by repeated attempts to prepare pure formic acid, Tt,
was decided, if possible, to oxidise pure methylic alcohol to the acid. When bichromate
of potash and sulphuric acid are used for the purpose there is a danger of oxidising the
acid to carbonic acid ; and when we consider, too, that in order to oxidise 16 grammes of
alcohol a litre of a solution of the bichromate salt is required, it is easily seen that the
formic acid will be diluted 80 largely that in the process of separation by distillation
the product would be destroyed—at any rate this method was unsuccessful. The
action of sulphuric acid and manganic oxide or tartaric acid does not yield a pure
gubstance. The action of oxalic acid on formiate of barium yields a distillate which at
first is different from the product of other processes in being free from a slight but
peculiar odour, and which it is highly probable is not proper to formic acid, but belongs
to some ever present impurity. On continuing the distillation, the usual smell was
developed, which fact seems to show that heat canses a change in the formic acid. It
is said by Lori (vide Warrs * Dictionary of Chemistry,” vol. vi.) that formic acid
of 87 per cent. can be obtained by the dry distillation of cupric formate. Tt is quite
true that a small quantity of very weak formic acid can be obtained by this proces,
but as 800n as all the crystalline water has been distilled off no yield of formic acid 1s
obtainable from the salt. The products of the action of heat on the dried salt when
maintained at a temperature of 200* in a paraffin bath, are metallic copper, carbonic
acid and water, and, in all probability, carbon monoxide is formed.

The 8pecimens of formic acid examined by Dr. MiLLzr and by M. Sorer give much
shorter spectra than ours. The formic acid examined by the latter observer absorbed
all the rays beyond the 8th cadmium line, while the two better of our specimens
transmit rays to a distance midway between the 12th and 17th lines (se Diagram 2),