Dis subjected to a rotation or deformation of exactly the same character as would be
» caused if the stria marked the termination of flexible currents radiating from the
Z bright head of the stria behind it and terminating in the hazy inner surface of the
= stria in question. An examination of several cases has led the authors of this paper
& to conclude that the currents do thus radiate from the bright head of a s8tria to the
-2 inner surface of the next, and that there is no direct passage from one terminal of the
3 bube to the other.
5 It is natural to inquire what, in this theory, is the physical structure of strie. Are
S they merely luminous appearances (7.e., loci of maximum luminosity), or are they
= aggregations of matter having a material structure ? This is a question which it is
= beyond the £cope of this paper to discuss, but the most probable view, in the opinion
A of the authors, is that they should be regarded as septa of complete electric porosity,
= having a material structure. One of the most important facts favouring this conelu-
s Sion is that when sbriz are formed by a coil working with a high-speed break, the
E strize produced by the two currents (the make and the break) adhere persistently
S together in pairs as though the alternate currents found ready to hand striz that only
needed a little deformation to make them available for their purposes (Plate 17, fig. 15).
There are other facts tending to support this conclusion, but a complete examination
of the question would carry us beyond the limits of the present paper.

A great difficulty in the way of this, and indeed of all attempted solutions of the
Stratification of yacuum discharges, arises from the difficulty of imagining any physical
canse which could form material aggregations in the form of strize out of the diffused
and mutually repellant particles of the rarefied gas. The following theory is thrown
out as a snggestion of a possible mode of accounting for their formation. Tt is known