bell of Sarsa to a number of successive electrical shocks in the same area of its
excitable surface, and having then oþbserved, on removing the electrodes and allowing
the mutilated hell to float freely in the water, that the artificial rhythm was in vigorous
Progress, I suddenly with two snips of the scissors excised the area of tissue which
had previously been the seat of electrical stimulation. Tnstantly all movement ceased.
This experiment, therefore, proved that the rhythmic movements can only have been due
to a stimulus emanating from the seat of injury, and continuously spreading over all the
other parts of the excitable surface of the bell. And, snch being the case, we can have
no farther doubt that the case of artificial rhythm due to previous electrical stimulation
belongs to the same category of physiological facts as the case of artificial rhythm due
to present or previous chemical stimulation. For now, in conclusion, I may observe that
in order to render the experimental parallel complete, T imitated in the case of chemical
stimulation the proof of the fact which I have just narrated in the case of electrical
stimulation, viz. : that the artificial rhythm depends on the continuous reception by the
excitable tissues of a stimulus which is continuously supplied from a seat, or seats, of
injury. The method which T employed to prove this fact in the case of chemical
stimulation was as follows. Having slit open the paralyzed bell of Sarsia along the
whole of one side from base to apex of the cone, I suspended the now sheet-like mass
of tissue by one corner in the air, leaving the rest of the sheet to hang vertically
downwards. By means of a rack-work support I now lowered the sheet of tissue till
one portion of it dipped into a beaker filled with a solution of glycerine of appropriate
strength. After allowing this portion to soak in the solution of glycerine until it
became lightly opalescent, T dropped the entire mutilated bell, or sheet of tissue, into
another beaker containing ordinary sea-water. If the exposure to the glycerine
8olution had been of sufficient duration, I invariably found that in the normal sea-