adyancing by a succession of jerks as it repeatedly tumbles over its teeth. As already
stated, the movements of the lantern are rythmical, and therefore the jerks take place
at regular intervals. It is important, however, to observe that although the lantern
is thus used to assist the spines in locomotion, it is doubtful whether such is the full
explanation of the lantern's movements. For, on the one hand, it is certain that
these movements are not necessary, bub only accessory to locomotion ; and, on the
other hand, they continue to take place under cireumstances where they can be of no
use in locomotion, Thus we have observed that young specimens of Fechinus do not
use their lanterns for locomotion, as older specimens always do. Probably the older,
and therefore larger specimens, use their lanterns more than the younger and smaller
ones, on account, of having to move 80 much heavier a mass. Also, the relatively
greater length of the spines in the smaller specimens makes it much more difficult
for the lantern to touch the table. This view is confirmed by the fact that, on cutting
the spines of young specimens shorter, these small Zchins begin to use their lanterns
after the manner of larger specimens. But, be this as it may, the fact that in young
specimens the lanterns rarely touch the table is proof that the spines are here alone
sufficient to produce locomotion. Again, as before observed, these peculiar movements
of the lantern take place under cireumstances where they can be of no use in pro-
ducing locomotion. Thus, for instance, they take place in young specimens in the
same way as in old, although, as jus stated, the lanterns in this case do not touch the
table at all. And again, if an Fchinus be placed on its aboral pole, the lantern at
once begins- its rhythmical movements, and continues them as long as the animal
remains in that position. In this case there is added to the movements already
described another perfectly rhythmical movement, which consists in closing and
opening the teeth—the time of complete closure corresponding with that of greates