80il, both upon the quantity and the quality of the produce. Lastly, such evidence
as is at command on the point does not favour the supposition that any considerable
proportion of the nitrogen of the ammonia-salts applied during the 13 years, and not
recovered in the crops during the period of the application, remained in an available
condition in the 801il, and was reclaimed in the succeeding seven years under the influ-
ences of the mixed mineral manure.
= In connexion with these results showing the effects of a pretty complete mineral
S manure, used after the continuous application of an excess of ammonia-salts alone for
£ a number of years, brief reference may be made to a somewhat parallel experiment.
= When considering the results obtained on plot 15, manured for 18 years in 8ucces-
S gion with 550 lbs. per acre of nitrate of soda alone, containing 82 lbs. of nitrogen, or
S approximately the same amount as the 400 Ibs. of ammonia-salts employed on plots
= $5 and 6, attention was called to the fact that the nitrate alone gave considerably more
& produce, containing more nitrogen, much more mineral matter, and falling off much
S less in the later years, than where the ammonia-salts were applied. The herbage, too,
2 was both more mixed and better developed under the influence of the nitrate. It
> was pointed oub that these better results were doubtless in great part due to the more
-3 rapid, wider, and deeper, distribution of the nitrogen of the nitrate, than that of the
ammonia-salts. Plants of a more varied root-range were thus encouraged ; possession
> of a greater range of s0il was thus acquired ; and probably the reactions within the
= 80ll and subsoil liberated more of their mineral constituents. But, as the 550 lbs. of
2 nitrate had come, in the later years, to yield only about the same amount of produce
= as half the quantity used on another plot (17), and it was estimated that only a com-
© paratively small proportion of the nitrogen applied was recovered in the increased
SZ crop, it was decided, as in the case of plot 6 with the ammonia-salts, to stop the