sion, and the pure fire an uncompromising obligation. For it hope that it might continue and be revived in the future. -
they erected and consecrated temples; through it they made Nehemiah later rekindled the fire, apparently extracting 2
sacrifices. Their priest, the Magus, gave rite and religion a with sunlight from ‘naphtha’. The restored fire burned on S
final form; the Parsees preserved both against challengers, the altar of the restored temple until Roman soldiers w
even carrying the sacred fire to India; and the Hebrews, razed—by fire—the temple itself in AD 70 [8,9]. =
during their Babylonian exile, incorporated many features The success of the fire or the behaviour of its smoke man- 5
into their own beliefs and practices. Such awkward adap- ifested the reaction of God to the ‘burnt offerings’ presented S
tations may explain, for example, the story of Nadab and by supplicants. The most spectacular exchange involved the = S
Abihu, whom Yahweh destroyed with devouring fire for infusion of direct fire from God himself. ‘Fire from heaven’
bringing ‘strange fire’—that is, impure fire, probably in the consumed the troubled sacrifice of Manoah, decided the con-
Zoroastrian mode—before the altar [8,12,13]. tested sacrifice at Mount Carmel, accepted the offerings of

The Old Testament is in fact a cauldron of stories, rites, and David at Ornan, and filled the Solomonic temple during its
beliefs simmering over a mix of religious fires. Probably, the dedication with the ‘glory of the Lord’. The threat of punish-
early Hebrews possessed a fire god in their history, as the ment through divine fire—of Israel for its iniquities, and of
Indo-Europeans did Atar. Apparently, like many peoples, Israel’s enemies for their hostility—is so common that it
they carried fire with them. Abraham, for example, brought became ritualistic, evolving into a literary formula that,
fire—not made it—as he prepared for the Moloch-like sacrifice because it quoted so often from Jeremiah, became known as
of Isaac. If so, that fire god vanished. In its place, the Hebrews the jeremiad.
honoured fire as a manifestation of God, not asa god itself. Fire The Bible’s fire tropes have their history. The oldest
is, in fact, as John Laughlin confirms, ‘the oldest symbol with images associated fire with lightning—the smoke, fire and
which Yahweh is associated in the Old Testament’. Many of storm-spewed lightning that descend on Mount Sinai. But
these expressions seem ‘strikingly archaic’ to scholars, part of most fire images derive from landscapes no longer wild.
the Yahwist strata of the Pentateuch: Yahweh sealing the cove- Wilderness fire was already a distant memory, a cultic
nant with Abraham with a ‘smoking fire pot and a flaming cliché. More vivid metaphors, those with the power to