Sumerian—Akkadian pantheon was Gibil, a fire god associ- Leviticus expounds the Priestly code for a perpetual fire, | 3 |

ated with cane and reeds, where no doubt he most often or holocaust as it must consume the sacrifice wholly:

manifested himself. Gilgamesh sent burnt offerings, full of The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it, it shall not go out; a
‘sweet savour’, and the gods ‘gathered like flies over the sacri- the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall © S
fice’. Holy fire was theophany, a means of sacrifice, and a lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and shall burn on it the
weapon of divine wrath [8-11]. fat of the peace offerings.

Early Indo-Europeans worshiped a fire god. He became Such a practice had ample analogues among the Canaanites,
Agni, the first of the Hindu pantheon; Svarozhich, a Slavic the Greeks and the Zoroastrians, whose ceremony parallels
avatar; Atar among the early Iranians; the hypostasis of the Hebrew one closely. The Philistines, the Sea People, 2
Ahura Mazda, the Great God of the Zoroastrians, among may in fact have descended from Greeks with a special “2
the first of the monotheisms. Greek and Romans divided worship of Hestia, the goddess of the hearth. It is worth ©
the task among two gods, one of the hearth (Vesta) and remembering that even as they began their Babylon captivity, — -s
one of the forge (Vulcan). For the Zoroastrians the fire according to Maccabees (II 1:19), ‘the pious priests of that =
ritual was a core ceremony, the perpetual fire a central obses- time took some fire from the altar and hit it in a pit’ in the =
sion, and the pure fire an uncompromising obligation. For it hope that it might continue and be revived in the future. -
they erected and consecrated temples; through it they made Nehemiah later rekindled the fire, apparently extracting 2
sacrifices. Their priest, the Magus, gave rite and religion a with sunlight from ‘naphtha’. The restored fire burned on S
final form; the Parsees preserved both against challengers, the altar of the restored temple until Roman soldiers w
even carrying the sacred fire to India; and the Hebrews, razed—by fire—the temple itself in AD 70 [8,9]. =
during their Babylonian exile, incorporated many features The success of the fire or the behaviour of its smoke man- 5
into their own beliefs and practices. Such awkward adap- ifested the reaction of God to the ‘burnt offerings’ presented S
tations may explain, for example, the story of Nadab and by supplicants. The most spectacular exchange involved the = S