but also by other fire parameters, such as heating duration only lead to limited heat penetration into the soil [51,53].
and oxygen availability [15,50], and the characteristics of Thus, unless fires are very slow moving, or large amounts
the soil (e.g. organic matter content, moisture content, min- of ground fuel are consumed (e.g. pile burning), the direct
eral composition and thermal properties [22,25,49,51]). The alterations summarized above are typically confined to the
main changes at lower temperatures (below 200°C) affect top few millimetres or centimetres of the soil [16,18]. In
mostly biological properties (e.g. reduction of microbial bio- addition to this, soil temperature reached and duration of
mass and destruction of the seed bank and fine roots, heating can vary substantially even over small scales [50],
figure 1), although physical properties such as soil water so direct effects of fire on soils can be spatially very
repellency and aggregate stability can also be altered heterogeneous.

(figure 1). At higher temperatures (above 200°C), chemical Some of the even more consequential changes to the soil
properties are affected through combustion of soil organic are indirect and often occur gradually in the post-fire
matter and production of pyrogenic organic compounds period. This fact is easily overlooked when studying burnt
and increases in soil pH, and physical properties also areas shortly after fire, or when examining impacts of heat
change, with alterations in water repellency and aggregate or burning on soil material in the laboratory. The most
stability (figure 1). Even transformations of soil minerals studied post-fire effect is that of enhanced erosion and
can occur when high temperatures (above 350°C) are reached, hence thinning of soils on hillslopes [25]. The loss of protec-
for example, under logs or slash piles (figure 1). The combi- tive vegetation and litter, combined with a loss in soil
nation of all these changes typically results in a more structure and, in some cases, enhancement of water repel-

friable and erodible soil [25,49]. lency, result in more of the rainfall impacting the soil


Box 2. The role of fire in Terra preta soils and Nordic dark earths.
