in the speed of intracortical information processing come humans was strongly amplified by syntactical-grammatical
into play. We have reason to assume that in primates in gen- language in modern humans, which is assumed to have
eral and in apes and humans in particular cortical evolved 80000-160000 years ago paralleling the earliest
information processing is much faster than that in the large- archeological evidence of symbolic culture [66]. The evolution = 2°
brained elephants and cetaceans. Of course, the speed of of bird song may represent a convergent evolutionary event. “2
information processing probably is faster in much smaller The question remains why corvids and parrots, with ©
brains with still much higher NPDs, but these brains still absolutely small brains compared with those of most mam- — -s
have much fewer neurons. Thus, it is the combination of mals including primates, reveal such a high intelligence. =
very many cortical neurons and a relatively high IPC that Presumably, because of extremely high packing density of S
appears to make our brains very smart. neurons, they have an unusually high number of pallial neur- -
Despite intense search, no anatomical or physiological ons, probably several hundred millions, despite the small size 2
properties have been identified so far that would distinguish of their brains. This could result in a very high IPC. Most S
qualitatively the human brain from other mammalian or in astonishing is the fact that the ‘seat’ of avian intelligence, w
general animal brains, except perhaps Broca’s speech area. the nidopallium, exhibits an anatomy and a cytoarchitecture =~
All properties mentioned so far are quantitative in nature. that differ considerably from that of the mammalian isocortex ©
However, human language may represent a qualitative (cf. [4]). This could indicate that high intelligence can be  S
step. Certainly, the evolution of a syntactical-grammatical realized by very different neuronal architectures. s

language was a complicated event that included substantial
modifications of the vocal apparatus, the evolution or further

elaboration of the Broca speech centre as an important cogni- Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.
tive-executive link between dorsal prefrontal regions and Funding. We received no funding for this study.
References
1 ‘oth G. 2013 The Jong evolution of brains and evolution (eds DA Oakley, HC Plotkin), pp. 126— Res. 195, 325-340. (doi:10.1016/B978-0-444-