from others. The tournament was competitive, and social concentrated creativity, it is not enough without there being
learning was only possible because agents inadvertently clear incentives for the curious individuals to engage in sys-
demonstrated the most effective techniques. Thus, if teaching tematic exploration. Individuals may have begun benefitting
were added, there would even be less incentive to engage in from trade based on the appearance of specialization, which
costly independent exploration. in turn is linked to the number and complexity of learned
Routine reliance on copying and avoidance of indepen- skills needed in daily life. Alternatively, it is possible that at
dent exploration (unless socially induced) may therefore some stage, owing to the establishment of cooperative breeding
have been the basic ancestral state in humans as well [51]. [100], joint innovation became favoured [101].
As with apes, then, the default human state is a preference Regardless of when exactly human creativity began to
for social learning. Innovations can nonetheless accumulate flourish, it seems safe to conclude that the virtual absence of
in a population over time because of the combination of var- creativity in wild orangutans and many other species indicates
ious other pathways to innovation (table 1) and effective that our ancestors were not creative until relatively recently. In
social transmission, especially when teaching is involved. fact, the results provide some support for the alternative view
The number of innovations, in terms of both complexity and that until quite recently the feedback between constant rates of
diversity of artefacts, gradually increased, but especially during accidental innovation and demography provides a plausible
the Upper Palaeolithic Revolution and even more clearly since alternative to enhanced creativity for changes in human
the Neolithic [95]. One explanation for this increase is that it cultural complexity.

was merely an effect of increased population size. Thus, even
if innovations continue to be produced by processes other
than creativity, larger populations will show more and more Authors’ contributions. C.P.v.S. and J.B. conceived the study. L.D., S.LEF.,
complex innovations, which may create a positive feedback K.K., M.A.v.N. and C.S. conducted research. C.P.v.S. drafted the
loop without any systematic exploration [51,96]. However, manuscript, and all others complemented and corrected.

an alternative, or non-exclusive additional possibility is that