been calculated to be insignificant by some [25,30,32,37], positive from the environment correlate with the ‘E’ and ‘A’ types of vcg
by others [29], inhibitory by yet others [26,28,31,38] or in the case and 16S, respectively. For simplicity, the potentially pathogenic
of the study by Motes et al. [27], nonlinear. strains, determined by either method, will be termed ‘P’ while

One important note for correlation assessments for those less likely to cause septicaemia will be called ‘NP’ (non-
both V. vulnificus and V. parahaemolyticus is that even when pathogenic). There are only a handful of studies that examine
environmental parameters have been important driving fac- the prevalence of virulent V. vulnificus in oysters. As with
tors of abundance, there are still ‘missing factors’. Regional V. parahaemolyticus, the relatively low occurrence of these
differences in both the bacterial communities and their reac- strains, especially outside of the Gulf Coast region, makes
tions to environmental stimuli make clear the need for even targeted analyses difficult [26,37]. Several authors agree
multiple, focused studies of the Vibrio species. When predic- that the P strains of V. vulnificus are more temperature-sensitive
tive models or risk assessments are generated, these tools than NP strains, where the P strains in oysters increase in
appear to only be relevant to the local area at best. In fact, relative abundance to NP strains as water temperatures
even when a single region is examined, there are often site- increase [31,57,58]. A similar reaction has been observed
by-site differences in prediction capabilities making even in V. vulnificus as has been noted in V. parahaemolyticus,
regional management of risk a challenge. It is not possible where the normal drivers of abundance, temperature and
to manage Vibrio-associated infection risk under a single salinity in the case of V. vulnificus, are not the factors that
modelling system, and any attempt to do this would be diffi- appear to influence the concentration of pathogenic strains.
cult and inaccurate. Each oyster-producing state would need Factors such as dissolved oxygen and pH correlate with
to develop their own dataset to increase confidence in our P strains while not seeming to affect total V. vulnificus (B. A.

ability to forecast, now-cast or hindcast these bacteria Froelich and R. T. Noble 2016, unpublished data). Thus, it


appears that the pathogenic strains of both V. vulnificus and