40000 (figure 4, PCs 1 and 5; figure 6, PCs 1 and 2), and the to the latter. Since the specimen also cannot be affiliated with
latter lacks the more inferiorly positioned zygomatic process other australopiths, these results are consistent with its attribu-
of BRT-VP-3/1 (figure 3, PC 3; figure 6, PC 1). tion to a separate species, A. deyiremeda [9]. If correct, this
What the two specimens appear to share is a more would imply that three contemporary hominin species were
anteriorly positioned zygomatic process, compared with present in eastern Africa during the Middle Pliocene, with
A. afarensis (figure 6, PC 2). However, closer scrutiny in a two of these, A. afarensis and A. deyiremeda, occurring not
wider comparative setting reveals that this seemingly shared only in the same time period, but also in close geographical
feature actually concerns a different phenomenon in KNM- proximity. This raises the question of how these species could
WT 40000 than in BRT-VP-3/1. Both PC 1 and 2 from the have coexisted over a longer period of time in a stable ecosys-
PCA of all fossils (figure 2) are associated with the anteropos- tem. Niche partitioning, involving diversification of diet,
terior position of the zygomatic process relative to the foraging behaviour and habitat preferences are potential fac-

postcanine tooth row (azp relative to pc—m23). In fact, PC 1 tors [11]. It is intriguing in this context that most diagnostic


differences between A. afarensis, A. deyiremeda and K. platyops Authors’ contributions. FS. and M.G.L. collected data; F.S. and P.O.H. | 9 |

functionally relate to aspects of mastication. Apart from analysed data and wrote the paper; all authors read and edited the
postcanine dental size, this study particularly highlights paper. a
morphological characters used to assess the loading of the mas- Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests. S

Funding. Financial support was provided by the Max Planck Society.
Acknowledgements. We thank the National Museums of Kenya, the
National Museum of Ethiopia, the Transvaal Museum (South
Africa), Department of Anatomy, Witwatersrand University (South