which in addition to greater spread around the temporal Regardless of whether the primary cause was climatic,
trendline, is also seen as greater spatial heterogeneity on anthropogenic or something else, a close causal link is
the maps, as previously reported [27]. The increasing likely to exist between local vegetation change and the
temporal variability of global and regional climate around episode of faunal change observed. =
this time is also well known [46,60,61] and is likely to explain 3
some of the observed spread of values. s
Locally, the low specimen-to-species ratio uniquely found . ~
in the KBS Member (1.87—1.53 Ma) may well be the key to 5. Conclusion =
understanding some the processes involved. Specifically, Ecometrics appears able to resolve not only regional differ- S
the lack of ecometric support for environmental amelioration ences in climate within eastern Africa, but also differences -
(such as increased humidity or primary productivity) leads in conditions within the Turkana Basin. Whereas precipi- 2
us to favour non-climatic explanations for the high species tation estimates show the expected decrease from over 1000 S
diversity, whereas the fact that the phenomenon was only to less than 500mm/yr over the last 6 Ma, temperature w
transient argues against explanations based on permanently estimates are remarkably stable at about 24°C, possibly =~
altered climate or habitats. reflecting a balance between global cooling and local heating ©
It may be no coincidence that sedimentation rates also from progressive deforestation resulting from an increased 3
increased significantly from Upper Burgi to KBS time [24]. prevalence of grassland-dominated biomes. Exactly how ©
All else being equal, increased sedimentation and fossiliza- our estimates compare with the significantly higher estimates
tion would be expected to result in better representation in of soil temperatures based on the clumped isotope analysis of
the fossil record of temporal variability of environments fossil soil carbonates [42] cannot be resolved at present, but
and biota. If species’ ranges shifted with changing climate, the lack of a temporal trend is similar. We strongly encourage
this could in turn result in the apparent sympatry of species workers in other fields to further test this hypothesis.
that were in fact rarely found together in life, inflating the Whether the absolute values are realistic remains to be
apparent species diversity. Quinn et al. [24] attribute the assessed, but the trends match previously published results.
increased sedimentation to the simultaneous spread of grass- The presence of water on the surface appears to inflate local