fossils, now dated to at least 400 ka, suggest there was probably There are perhaps also clues in the form of the Qesem ©
an evolutionary divergence well before that date. Moreover, teeth from Israel, which are of comparable age to or slightly =
using the latest estimates of the autosomal human mutation younger than the Sima de los Huesos fossils (approx. =
rate, the divergence date of the neanderthalensis and sapiens 400 ka). According to Hershkovitz et al. [77], these teeth com- =
lineages can indeed be placed earlier, between 550 and bine features found in the Neanderthals with some typical of -
765 ka, which would be consistent with only the oldest the early modern Skhul and Qafzeh samples. Given the much 2
suggested examples of heidelbergensis as potentially represent- earlier presence of Neanderthal-like traits in the antecessor S
ing the LCA [93]. An alternative would be to consider a and Tighennif materials, we should consider the possibility w
H. antecessor-like morphology as more likely for the LCA of that the LCA did display some Neanderthal-like features den-
H. sapiens and H. heidelbergensis, with the heidelbergensis tally. In the past, I have tended to envisage the LCA as ideally 5
group exemplified by Arago, Petralona, Bodo and Broken totally plesiomorphous, and thus lacking the derived features 3
Hill having more in common facially with the Sima fossils of either Neanderthals or modern humans. But in reality, the =
and subsequent Neanderthals (figure 2c). LCA may in fact have shown a mosaic of primitive and
It has been suggested that the antecessor material also dis- derived traits, with the latter differentially inherited in the
plays a derived sapiens-like pattern of dental development descendant lineages. Thus, the cranial vault may have been
[111], as well as some similarities in postcranial morphology Ceprano-like, the facial morphology antecessor-like and
[106], but in other respects there are Neanderthal-like features retained in the sapiens line in Africa, while the dentition
such as in the mastoid region, hypertrophied medial ptery- may have been more Neanderthal-like than previously envis-
goid tubercle, M! shape, clavicle and humerus. Bermudez aged, and then increasingly modified in the modern human
de Castro & Martinon-Torres [106] concluded that antecessor lineage. New studies and discoveries should allow the
was a side-branch of a lower Pleistocene radiation of lineages proper testing of these ideas in the next few years.

in Eurasia that eventually gave rise to Neanderthals in
Europe and to H. sapiens in Africa. If heidelbergensis (sensu
