This combination of spatially offset subunits was illustrated by arable function of SF,, SFr indicates the presence of multiple
modification (b) in figure 1. binocular subunits selective for different frequencies. As in
These two methods complement one another in important the study by Tanabe et al. [7], this also provides a substrate
ways. The major strength of STC is that it gives a full descrip- for a ‘coarse-to-fine’ interaction that helps to reduce false
tion of the RF properties of each subunit. However, this matches. Thus, all of these studies support the same general
comes at a significant price: the conclusion only holds under conclusion—typical V1 complex cells behave as if they receive
the assumptions of the model—that the cell really is composed input from more than two LN elements, and the effect of this
of a set of LN subunits. If other nonlinear processes influenced combination is to reduce the problem of false matches.
the firing rate (e.g. if some dot patterns led to changes in the In addition to revealing multiple subunits, Baba et al. [29]
contrast gain), the set of LN filters recovered by STC may be found that some cells shared an interesting property across
quite different from the true RF subunits of a given cell. The the subunits. As in an earlier study [30], some cells responded
method of Sasaki et al. [6] requires far fewer assumptions— best when the SF presented to the two eyes was different. In
the fact that dots that are separated but still within the these cells, Baba et al. showed that the interocular difference
RF show no binocular interaction clearly indicates that the RF in preferred SF was preserved across subunits. This provides
is divided into subunits with distinct binocular RFs, regard- an ideal arrangement for detecting surfaces that are tilted
less of any nonlinearities within those sub-regions. The around a vertical axis, which produces interocular SF differ-

disadvantage of this method is that it gives a much less ences in the stimulus [31]. Having multiple subunits helps


both to sharpen the selectivity for slant in these neurons and
reduce the number of false matches produced by slanted sur-
faces. More recently, Kato et al. [32] extended this analysis to
explore different orientations between the eyes, and again
found evidence for multiple subunits, with matched interocu-