
To determine whether the disparity processing ability of the remainder of the visual field. An early case study by
DF was reflected in the neural activation of the occipital Blakemore & Mitchell [73] investigated performance in tests
cortex, Bridge et al. [67] used {MRI during viewing of a dis- of binocular stereopsis in a young patient who had undergone
parity-defined checkerboard (figure 2a). The disparity of surgical callosal section. Although this participant appeared
each checkerboard square changed independently to a new to be unable to determine the relative depth of slit stimuli
value every second during the ‘disparity’ condition and containing disparity when they were presented to the central
was contrasted to a zero-disparity plane. Figure 2b shows visual field, but not peripherally, only a few trials were under-
the activation in an example control subject and, similar to taken and there were no control data. Later work by Jeeves
the activity in figure 1, this resulted in activation across con- [74] investigated stereoscopic depth performance in four
siderable regions of the occipital lobe. Interestingly, in patient patients, two of whom had the congenital absence of the
DEF, despite her relatively good disparity performance and the corpus callosum and two had partial callosal sections. All
fact that she could describe the stimulus, there is very little were compared to control subjects with normal binocular
neural activity. The activity is confined to a small region of vision. The patients with complete section showed deficits
the ventral occipital lobe. It is not clear why the level of in stereoscopic depth perception tasks at the midline, but
activity should be so low; the activity to a moving stimulus not in the periphery. Similarly, the single patient with partial
was considerably higher than that to disparity-defined section affecting the splenium also showed deficits that were
stimuli, suggesting a general loss of neural activity or vascu- not present in the patient with anterior section of the corpus
lature was not the cause. However, it may be that the callosum. In these three patients, stimuli were rarely perceived
network for detecting binocular disparity is reduced in as behind fixation, suggesting that even distinguishing near

activity level, but still able to contribute to perception. and far disparities was challenging.


(c) patient DF