continuously indicated their perceived direction of motion by functions to each observer's percept duration distribution
pressing one of two buttons. revealed no clear segregation between groups (electronic

In contrast to our predictions based on previous studies supplementary material, figure S2), and the parameters for
[39,40], we found that the mean rate of spontaneous depth each group were not significantly different from each other
reversals was similar across groups (figure 5a). The range of (Mann-Whitney test, p > 0.1). Finally, since there was no corre-
mean percept durations was comparable to those described lation between observers’ age and mean percept durations
elsewhere for healthy observers viewing similar stimuli (electronic supplementary material, figure S3), we pooled the
[42,69], and at the group level, the mean percept durations normalized percept durations for each group (all controls
for patients and controls were not significantly different versus patients) by dividing each percept duration for a given
(Mann-Whitney test, p> 0.1). None of the patients with observer by the mean percept duration for that observer
PPC damage showed notable slowing in the rate of perceived (figure 6). Direct statistical comparison of the empirical distri-
reversals of the rotating sphere. In fact, two patients with butions for the two groups revealed that they were
bilateral PPC damage (MH and PM) were significantly faster significantly different (Kolmogorov—Smirnov statistic = 0.137,
in their reversals compared with healthy controls (Mann— p <0.001). A gamma distribution provided the closest fit to
Whitney test, p< 0.001). These results suggest that a fully the patient group’s data (x3 1477 = 67.6, p < 0.001), while the
intact PPC is not critical for either the perception of 3D SFM lognormal distribution provided the best fit to the control
or spontaneous depth reversals. group’s data (¥3 499 = 35.5, p < 0.001), owing to a greater pro-

While mean percept durations provide a simple mea- portion of short percept durations (normalized value less than

sure of perceptual stability for comparing observers and 1) in the control group compared with patients.


@ 19