see [34], but also see [35] for alternative primers) or for which Perhaps the most surprising finding of generalist ant
the cost of sequencing all specimens did not appear to be association was in the case of the abundant Myrmarachne sp.
justified (149 snails, 53 thrips and 132 ants belonging to three salticid spiders (figure 1i). Despite extremely strong visual
taxa). The OTU-based classification of most specimens was mimicry of C. mimosae (C. nigriceps and T. penzigi ants differ
not sensitive to the type of clustering algorithm or choice of in coloration, and T. penzigi also differs in body shape), these
similarity threshold. Nonetheless, for a small number of speci- spiders were not found any more commonly with C. mimosae
mens, clustering choices did affect whether those specimens than with the other domatium-dwelling ants. The visual mimi-
were grouped with others or classified as separate taxa, and cry probably plays no role in disguising spiders from the tree’s
we regard those specimens as good candidates for future ant residents, since most ants rely primarily on pheromones
investigation using molecular or morphological methods. rather than visual cues to detect intruders. Instead, it probably

Our myrmecophile collections revealed that domatium serves to avoid predation by birds or parasitism by wasps. The
communities were indeed taxonomically distinct from close mimicry of C. mimosae combined with the fact that the spi-
canopy communities (figure 1d and [14]). Domatium commu- ders were found with ants other than C. mimosae suggest that
nities were dominated by Hemiptera and Lepidoptera, but selection favours mimicry of C. mimosae over other species of
these were less common in canopy insect communities, resident ant, presumably because they are the most bellicose
which were dominated by Coleoptera. (Domatium myrmeco- species, and that predators are deceived by the spiders’ appear-
philes also included many spiders and snails, but these were ance as a worker of C. mimosae, but do not attend to the
not reported for canopy communities in [15)). mismatch between the spiders and the tree’s resident ants.

As with the canopy insect communities [15], the abundance Our ongoing study of domatium myrmecophile commu-
of domatium myrmecophiles differed among the ant species. nities has benefited greatly from DNA barcoding. The use of
Among the three domatium-dwelling ants, C. mimosae was barcodes allows myrmecophiles to be collected and preserved
more likely to host myrmecophiles than C. nigriceps, which in rapidly in the field; identification of specimens across a broad
turn was more likely than T. penzigi (figure le and [14]; see taxonomic range can then easily be performed later by non-