possess families that have received little taxonomic attention Ss
despite signs of very high species richness. 2. E xperimental s
The need for further biological inventories is evidenced by ~
the fact that some researchers believe species registration has (a) Material =
barely begun [1], while others suggest it is well advanced Specimens were collected at sites across Canada from 2004 to S
[8]. Until recently, the prospects for resolving uncertainty in 2014, but most (90%) were obtained over the last 4 years -
species numbers appeared remote. Carbayo & Marque [9] esti- (figure 1). The sampling effort during this interval involved 2
mated that a comprehensive inventory of animal species using approximately three person-years devoted to collecting and S
morphology would require $250 billion and another 600 years. another five person-years to processing the specimens for w
DNA barcoding represents an alternate approach, one allow- submission to DNA sequencing. The sampling programme =~
ing an expedited assessment of species richness for all employed Malaise traps, pitfall traps, sweep nets, intercept ©
animal lineages at far lower cost. Its capacity to accelerate pro- traps and light traps. Several million specimens were 3
gress rests on the fact that members of most species form a collected, but resource constraints limited analysis to approxi-. — &
distinct barcode cluster [10-12], a relationship that has now mately one million, enough to allow good geographical and
been operationalized for large-scale surveys by the barcode seasonal coverage. Most samples were preserved in 95%
index number (BIN) system [13]. The strong correspondence EtOH and held at —20°C until they were sorted. Larger speci-
between BIN and species counts has been established through mens were pinned, while smaller ones were retained in
studies on groups with well-validated taxonomy [13-15]. Con- EtOH. When subsampling was required, specimens were
sequently, it is now clear that DNA barcode surveys can selected haphazardly with respect to size, taxonomic group
rapidly quantify species diversity, enabling analysis on geo- and life stage. All specimens were identified to an order
graphical and taxonomic scales that were formerly impossible. before sequence analysis and more detailed taxonomic
Although implementation of BIN-based biodiversity assignments were made later. Collection data, voucher infor-
assessments for the entire animal kingdom will require sub- mation and taxonomy for each specimen are available in the
stantial resources, less expansive work is likely to preview Barcode of Life Data Systems [22] (BOLD, www.boldsystems.
global patterns. This study employs DNA barcodes to evalu- org) within 102 public datasets (electronic supplementary