and one killer whale Orcinus orca) [23].

Overall, most of the identified specimens across all 102 sites Over the last two decades, molecular methods have been
represented dolphins or porpoises. The taxonomic identifi- increasingly applied to the problem of cetacean identification,
cation of these small species is significantly easier, as a but their primary focus was the study of contemporary popu-

lations. Indeed, given the 1984 moratorium on commercial

greater proportion of entire bones are preserved and more com- : :
plete reference collections are available. Only 12 specimens (less whaling by the IWC, their protected status under CITES and

than 4% of the identified assemblage) were identified as baleen the many national laws protecting particular species and popu-
whale species. The fact that half of these baleen whales were lations, accurate taxonomic identification of whale products
identified as North Atlantic right whale demonstrates the sig- has become essential to differentiate products obtained from
nificance of these ancient sample sets. Indeed, this species legal versus illegal exploitation or trade. For example, identifi-
has all but disappeared from the North Sea, but its prevalence cation to the species or even population level may be key to
in these archaeological remains (albeit within an extremely assessing whether whale products (skin, blubber, meat) sold
small sample set) hints at its potential historic abundance in domestic markets have a legal origin (e.g. if they come
within the region. It is highly likely that a significant proportion from small odontocetes not covered by the IWC moratorium,
of the unidentified cetacean specimens are also from large or from populations exploited under aboriginal subsistence
(baleen) whales, as they are less likely to be taxonomically permits) or not. However, such products are often processed
identified if they are in a fragmented state compared with smal- in ways that render morphological identification impossible.
ler species (see discussion in [20]). Human behaviour may also Considering that such processing (cooking, salting, drying,
preferentially increase fragmentation of large species compared marinating) may significantly degrade DNA, early molecular
with their smaller counterparts. Compared with dolphins or studies targeted mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), amplifying