for behavioural priming effects [77,78] which can be observed accounts for repetition suppression. For example, the ‘sharpen-
under similar conditions to repetition suppression and mani- ing’ model proposed that repetition affects the selectivity or
fests as a change in behavioural performance in response to sparseness of the neural response [49,91,92]. Under this
repeated stimulus exposure [79,80]. For example, priming can model, stimulus repetition leads to attenuation in neurons
improve reaction time and accuracy for repeated stimuli [81]. that are less selective and less well tuned, while highly selective
Although priming effects and repetition suppression have neurons continue to respond. Although a sharpening effect has
together been observed under the same experimental con- been observed when previously novel stimuli become highly
ditions, establishing a causal relationship between the two familiar [88,93], this model fails to explain suppression effects
as proven difficult. For example, in non-human primates observed following less familiar repetitions. Indeed, in response
when repetition suppression and priming are observed to repetition, single-unit measurements show that the greatest
under the same conditions, the two effects do not correlate attenuation is observed in the most selective neurons as
57]. In humans, although some studies have found a positive opposed to the least selective neurons [49,57,94,95].
relationship between priming and repetition suppression These single-unit measurements in fact speak to a third
82,83], the literature is littered with inconsistencies. While hypothesis which explains repetition suppression as a fatigue
one study showed that both fMRI repetition suppression effect, attributed to either reduced action-potential firing in
and behavioural priming are disrupted with application of neurons that are selective to a given stimulus [96,97], or attenu-
trans-magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the left frontal cortex ation in the efficacy of received inputs [39,96,98]. Evidence
84], others have failed to find evidence for a positive relation- from macaque IT suggests that suppression speaks to the
ship [85,86]. One possible explanation for the discrepancies is latter of these two possibilities, attenuation in the received
that although repetition suppression and behavioural prim- inputs [65]. IT neurons that respond equally to two different
ing often co-occur, repetition suppression may not stimuli (e.g. stimuli A and B) suppress to presentation of A fol-
necessarily causally underlie behavioural priming. Indeed, lowed by B, but this repetition suppression effect is not as
single-unit recordings in both humans and non-human pri- substantial as that observed following repeated presentation
mates show that repetition does not lead to faster neural of stimulus A. This result implies that repetition suppression
responses or narrower tuning curves [56,87—90]. This suggests of a single cell cannot be entirely action-potential dependent,