the 0G beam centred on a diving arteriole. The full width at half maximum (FWHM = 230 jum) of the beam is superimposed on a vascular mean intensity
projection image. Red arrows indicate the direction of flow in the arteriole. (b) Simulated spatial profile of the 0G beam in cortical tissue. (i) Colour-coded
photon density. (ii) Photon density as a function of depth (z-axis). (c) Diameter change time courses of the diving arteriole in (a) in response to a sensory (forepaw)
stimulus and selective 0G stimulation of inhibitory cortical neurons. Ten sensory stimulus trials were averaged. (d) LFP recorded from layer II/III during the 0G
stimulation of inhibitory cortical neurons. Each trace shows a single stimulus trial. Downward deflections in the LFP signal indicate spontaneous bursts of PCs
activity. This behaviour is suppressed during the 0G stimulus. (e) Averaged dilation time courses grouped by depth. The inset shows an expanded view of the
initial 4 s after the stimulus onset. The depth in micrometres is indicated on the left. Error bars indicate s.e. across subjects. (f) Comparison of dilation time courses
in response to 0G stimulation of cortical inhibitory neurons before (black) and after (red) blocking Y1 receptors for NPY. Error bars represent s.e. across subjects.
(9) As in (f) for the sensory response in the surround area. (h) Comparison of the response to 0G stimulation of the inhibitory neurons (also shown in f) to 0G
stimulation of PCs. Blocker of glutamatergic synaptic transduction were present in the PC experiment to ensure specificity.

showing fast astrocytic kinetics [85]. This fast signal, however, Release of vasoactive messengers is not the only possible
could have resulted from a cross-talk with neuronal Cat neurovascular communication mechanism. In fact, attempts at
activity. Thus, the role of Ca‘*-dependent release of astrocytic blocking the dilation response using a cocktail of pharmacologi-
vasoactive compounds in CBF regulation remains controver- cal blockers for all known neuronal and astrocytic vasoactive
sial. In addition, we cannot rule out (currently unknown) messengers have not been successful [88]. In addition to trivial
Cat*-independent pathways as well as a potential astrocytic explanations such as incomplete drug coverage or unknown mes-
role in sustaining dilation in response to a long-duration senger molecules, the residual dilation may be due to vasoactive
increase in neuronal activity. Furthermore, the phenomenon metabolites or K*. Vasoactive properties of certain energy metab-
of glial Ca** excitability differs between brain regions olites (e.g. lactate and COz) are well documented [89-92].
[86,87], such that the role of glia in neurovascular communi- However, cases of dissociation between the dilation response

cation may not directly translate from one region to the other. and energy consumption on the microscopic scale in vivo suggest

