are pre-coordinated when they act together according to a up a state of heightened mutual access between the participants -
shared history, cultural patterns, societal norms, roles or insti- ([37], p. 76-80), and thereby, it is highly functional for the 2
tutions, or even their personal shared interactional history encounter that will follow. S
(e.g. a national or a familial greeting custom). Functional Together, these different elements of coordination show w
coordination is coordination that serves (has a function for) the influence of the three levels we introduced in §1: the indi- =
the interaction, e.g. arranging to meet, i.e. to interact later. viduals, the socio-cultural context and the social interaction. ©
Finally, coordination-with and coordination-to mark the differ- The interaction process, as we postulated at the beginning 3
ence between a mutual or co-regulated coordination and an of this section, is to an extent autonomous in the unfolding ©
individual, singular attunement to a patterned event or process. of the greeting: no matter what kinds of coordinations are
For instance, I coordinate with you over a smoothly running at play, none of them alone or their sum, or the individual
video-connection, but if I were later to view a recording of mechanisms that aid in sustaining the interaction, can fully
what I saw you doing before, I can only coordinate to that. It predict the actions that will occur, or the significances they
is, in fact, hardly possible for humans (and animals) to purely will have for the interactors.

‘coordinate-to’ (and it has repeatedly been shown that attempts
to coordinate-with when it is only possible to coordinate-to can
be upsetting and disruptive of social understanding, see

[32-34]). Coordination is also highly dependent on embodied 3. The interpl ays between interactional and

and situated constraints that affect it, and which can and individual autonomy in the co-creation of
should be taken into account when investigating it. . .

To illustrate the robustness of coordination and the inter- mean ngful action
play of its structural and dynamical elements, we may think For interactional sociology, meaningful action can already be