path and wing rotation angle (lollypop symbols), wing velocities (blue vectors) and instantaneous aerodynamic forces (orange vectors) at 25 equally spaced points in
time throughout the wingbeat of a hovering fly (wingbeat frequency is 189 Hz) [27]. (c) Time history of wing Euler angles during steady flight. (d) Time history of
vertical aerodynamic force. The light grey trace shows results from a quasi-steady aerodynamic model based on translational forces only; the dark grey trace is from a
quasi-steady model that includes both translational and rotational forces [28]. The black trace shows the vertical force from a robotic fly experiment [27] and thus
also includes unsteady aerodynamic effects such as wake capture and added mass forces. (e) Aerodynamic forces produced by a revolving robotic Drosophila wing
model for a variable angle of attack [29]. The total force coefficient (C;) is the resultant of the lift and drag components (C, and Cp, respectively), and is oriented
roughly perpendicular to the wing. All force coefficients are normalized by wing surface area and dynamic pressure. The ratio between C, and Cp provides the lift-to-
drag ratio L/D (black). (f) The flow field around a wing section (at 56% span) of a robotic Drosophila wing model moving at wing velocity U, measured using
stereoscopic particle image velocimetry (PIV). Arrows indicate instantaneous in-plane fluid velocity, iso-lines show out-of-plane flow velocity in centimetres per
second (positive indicates flow towards wingtip), and colour indicates fluid vorticity. The blue patch of high clockwise vorticity is the leading edge vortex
(LEV), which enhances aerodynamic force production. Adapted from [30].

to fly with flapping wings, a fact that accounts for the striking with subsequent efforts using more accurate methods [25,26].
similarity between the hovering kinematics of fruit flies and Unlike flying vertebrates, flies contain no active joints in their
hummingbirds [16]. The insect brain is also structurally con- wings and the path of the wingtip can be traced on the surface
servative and many core flight control circuits, such as those of a sphere; consequently, wing kinematics are conveniently
used for navigation [17,18], likely emerged very early in the described using three Euler angles in a stroke plane reference
arthropod lineage that gave rise to all pterygote insects [19]. frame (stroke position, deviation and wing rotation angle;
The ubiquity of this ‘Devonian toolkit’ [20] makes it possible figure la—c). While hovering, this stroke plane is roughly hori-
to study these general questions in fruit flies, or any con- zontal, so fruit flies move their wings back and forth rather
venient insect for that matter. Although our review will than up and down (figure 1b). The reciprocal wing movement
focus on Drosophila, most of the principles we describe will can be divided into a ‘forward’ and ‘reverse’ stroke, which by
likely apply to a wide variety of species. convention are misleadingly called the ‘downstroke’ and

‘upstroke’. The wings deviate upward at the end of each half