model with details on the role of motile cilia in leftward extended the application of this developmental mechanism to
fluid flow in humans and animal models is provided by explain the genetics of congenital limb developmental anomaly
Dasgupta and Amack [6]. They explain that while there is con- in humans. This anomaly is called the split hand/foot malfor-
sensus that a transient leftward fluid flow can direct left-side mation, where the index and middle fingers fail to develop
asymmetric activation of the conserved Nodal pathway, with variable penetrance even for different limbs of the same
namely in mouse and zebrafish, there is evidence indicating person. It is known that deletions and conventional mutations
that not all vertebrates use this mechanism. Moreover, as of DLX5 (the Drosophila distal-less dll homologue) in chromosome
also discussed by Dasgupta and Amack [6], and elsewhere 7 cause the anomaly with incomplete penetrance owing to hap-
[7], this model has faced a number of problems, including loinsufficiency, but paradoxically, the vast majority of cases
the question of what mechanism(s) are used to sense the result from chromosomal aberrations where the DLX5 locus ~
fluid flow—e.g. mechanosensitive cilia, morphogen gradients itself is not mutated, and moreover, where the aberration break- =
or vesicular particles. More recent studies have shown that pri- points are often located millions of bases away from the DLX5 =
mary cilia are not in fact calcium-responsive mechanosensors locus. Klar [15] concludes that chromosome 7 translocations -
[8], and that asymmetries in cleavage-stage frog embryos and inversions associated with the disorder (whose genetic 2
have not only consistently asymmetric metabolic profiles [9], aetiology has remained unexplained thus far) have satisfied S
but also protein components with functional roles in asymme- developmental biology predictions of the SSIS mechanism. It w
try development [10]. Consistent with the existence of L/R is argued that the double-helix structure of DNA itself forms =~
asymmetry at such an early stage of development, Dasgupta the physical basis of turning the developmental control gene ©
and Amack [6] used mosaic cell labelling and time-lapse ima- ON in one chromatid and OFF in sister chromatid during repli- 3
ging in the zebrafish embryo to demonstrate that ciliated cells cation of the progenitor cell’s gene, and this binary-coded gene S
within Kupffer’s vesicle—a structure that is functionally analo- expression switching mechanism may be the underlying mech-
gous to the embryonic node and alternatively termed the ‘L/R anism of development in general. By evolving factors that can
organizer’—are non-stochastically arranged, suggesting that vary the selective strand/chromatid segregation process func-
they may be propagating L/R positional information that tioning at the centromere of the relevant chromosome, both
exists prior to L/R Organizer morphogenesis and hence, regulated asymmetric versus symmetric cell divisions can be