birds following the spring route across western Sahara well as positive wind support later on during the flight across
should fly at higher altitudes than those following the centra’ an ecological barrier. The time spent at stopover as well as the
route. Our analyses also showed that birds following an opti- timing of departures from stopover areas suggest that the
mal route relative to winds, would select lower flight swifts explore stopover sites presumably to fuel before the
altitudes in autumn than in spring. We could not confirm crossing, both in autumn (Iberian Peninsula and South
this differential altitude choice connected to geographica Europe) and in spring (Liberia and Congo Basin). The evol- — -5
region in spring or between the two seasons in our study ution of a preferred western route used by European =
as the geolocation data did not provide flight altitudes. How- common swifts in spring, are supported by a combination of =
ever, these predictions based on our analyses can be tested in timing favourable fuelling conditions related to high insect -
the future using suitable tracking technology. That migratory abundance and favourable supporting winds across the 2
birds may use different altitudes between seasons is sup- Sahara crossing. Future studies will reveal at what flight alti- 5
ported by tracking radar studies at an inland oasis and tudes the common swifts explore tailwind conditions for the w
desert areas in west Sahara [76], where in fact the tracking Sahara crossing in autumn and spring as well as between the =~
of songbird migrants showed this predicted differential alti- three major flyways across the Sahara in spring. Ss
tude selection in autumn and spring. 3
We considered the assistance provided by the winds calcu- Ethics. Ethical permission to attach geolocators to common swifts was SS

given by Malmo-Lunds djurforsoksetiska namnd (M112-09, M470-
12). Permission to trap and ring common swifts in Sweden was
given by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the

lating the tailwind component both at the stopover sites and
along the Sahara crossing. However, most wind conditions

also include a side wind component that birds should account Swedish Ringing Office at the Natural History Museum in Stockholm