neural differentiation occurred only when purinergic receptor only in the differentiation of NG2-glia to mature myelinating
activity had been antagonized and [Ca?*]; transients had oligodendrocytes (see also below), but also in their alternative
diminished [33]. switch towards a neurogenic fate [41]. In the intact tissue,
The effects of P2Y;R activation are counterbalanced by spinal cord ECs are virtually quiescent, self-renew very
the ionotropic P2X7R subtype, which is highly expressed by slowly and give rise to a very small number of neurospheres
NSCs in the SVZ, and modulates intracellular calcium in vitro. However, after spinal cord injury (SCI) or hypoxia,
spikes [34]. Its prolonged activation by ATP led to caspase- ECs proliferate, migrate towards the injury site and start
independent lysis/necrosis of NSCs, as demonstrated by expressing GFAP, a marker of multipotency [38,40]. Interest-
cell membrane disruption accompanied by loss of mitochon- ingly, ECs reveal downregulation of P2Y;Rs in parallel with
drial membrane potential. Surprisingly, activation of P2X7R upregulation of P2Y4Rs one week after SCI, suggesting that
in NPCs causes cell death in the absence of pore formation the panel of expression of P2YRs may play a critical role in
[35]. These observations might have opposite outcomes fol- the modulation of neural progenitor cell expansion [39]. Acti-
lowing pathological events: in fact, high levels of vated ECs generate a high number of neurospheres and give
extracellular ATP in inflammatory CNS lesions may delay rise to astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and, under some con-

the successful graft of newborn NPCs and therefore impair ditions, motoneurons when exposed to differentiating agents


in vitro [42]. However, fate-mapping analysis of ECs following
SCI in vivo revealed generation of astrocytes and oligodendro-
cytes only [43] (see also ยง3). Although no generation of new
neurons has been observed, acute transplantation of undiffer-
entiated ECs fully reverted the pathological increase in
P2X4Rs and P2X7Rs observed after SCI and led to a partial
recovery of locomotor activity [39], thus suggesting a possible