
are more common in one sex over the other ((A1, B1) brains
are more common in females compared with males, and
(A2, B2) brains are more common in males compared with

2. Developing the mosaic brain hypothesis females). Note, however, that the internally consistent brain
Consider the following illustration using a highly simplified types ((Al, B1) and (A2, B2)), although more common in
‘brain’ composed of two regions, A and B, each of which one sex over the other, are not typical of that sex, i.e. only a min-
can take one of two states, 1 or 2. A ‘state’ in this illustration ority of subjects from each sex category has them. So while it
could be a volume, size, structure, locus of specific gene is true in all three populations that an (A1, B1) brain is most
expression or other functional difference. For argument’s likely to belong to a female, in populations 2 and 3 it is not
sake, the reader might think of A as a hypothalamic nucleus true that a female is most likely to have an (A1, B1) brain.
and B as a subcomponent of the hippocampus, and imagine In fact, she is just as likely (in population 3) or more likely
that each of these components may be small (state 1) or large (population 2), to have a mosaic brain, i.e. a brain that has
(state 2). Consider further that there is a sex difference in both one component in the form more typical of females (i.e. in
components, so that in two-thirds of females component A state 1) and one component in the form more typical of
is small (i.e. in state 1), whereas in two-thirds of males males (i.e. in state 2).
component A is large (i.e. in state 2), and the same is true Are there any data supporting the existence of mosaic
for component B (ie. it is small (state 1) in two-thirds of brains? Joel [29,30] has recently suggested that such evidence
females and large (state 2) in two-thirds of males). Is the exist- may be found in animal studies reporting that the effects of
ence of sex differences sufficient to conclude that this sex on the brain differ even to the point of opposition under
population of ‘brains’ is essentially polarized into two types varied environmental conditions and that sex-by-environment
of brain? Moreover, is the existence of sex differences interactions may differ for different brain features. For
enough to characterize the population? It turns out that the example, Reich et al. [31] found that three weeks of mild
answer to both questions is no. stress reversed a sex difference in the density of CB1 receptors