origins and neuronal substrate of consciousness. The methodo- consider DACX (figure 6). Here, I will focus on DACX’s hippo-
logical question is how we can validate it with respect to the campus because it is the generator of episodic declarative
content of consciousness. The hard problem is based on memory providing core content of conscious experience (see
the claim that a third person description of first person experi- [195], for a review), while itself being subconscious [196], i.e.
ence is not possible. I have argued above that this notion is lesions to this area do not affect the level of consciousness but
closely tied to a Cartesian reductionist stance on scientific expla- do lead to severe memory impairments. This further confirms
nation and that this mode of explanation is failing in the face of the dissociation between processes generating content that
the multi-scale organization of biological systems. Indeed, one of can potentially define conscious experience and the transient
the critics of Descartes suggested to turn to human experience memory process that serves as the substrate of consciousness
and skill rather than God to anchor knowledge. The eight- itself. The hippocampus shows dense structural and functional
eenth-century Neapolitan philosopher Giambattista Vico integration posing a challenge for integration centric theories
famously proposed that we can only understand that what we of consciousness. In addition, it provides a substrate of virtuali-
build, or, that ‘truth’ and ‘fact’ are reversible (Verum et factum zation by virtue of its ability to support mental time travel
reciprocantur seu convertuntur) [194]. This epistemological [197-199] through, so-called, sweeps and ripples [200,201],
model also stood at the heart of the short-lived cybernetics revo- which through spreading activation can re-instantiate and/or
lution and was directly followed—probably unknowingly—by readout hippocampal memories that provide information to a
Watson and Crick in their discovery of the structure of DNA range of extra-hippocampal circuits including the default
through the construction of a mechanical model. I propose mode network [202].

that we can decipher subjective experience following a synthetic The entorhinal-hippocampal model of DACX constructs
strategy [25]. Qualia are defined through the confluence of differ- memories of ‘episodes’ that comprise both spatial and sensory
ent modalities of the experienced agent—environment nexus at a information derived from path integration and the distal sensors
specific point in time and given a specific individual history cap- the robot is equipped with respectively. These episodic memories
tured in the continuously evolving memory systems of the agent. are subsequently associated with the goals the agent main-
A third person perspective on qualia will thus require full access tains, facilitating the formation of action policies to optimize