
y Y neural crest derived

Ora

Figure 2. Cavitation of the ear. (a—c) Proposed processes of creating an air-filled space. (a) Invasion of the endoderm as a sheet of tissue wrapping around the
ossicles. (b) Break of the endoderm to allow the tissue to move around the ossicles. (c) No invasion of the endoderm but creation of a cavity by retraction and
transformation of the mesenchyme. (d) Process based on lineage tracing showing a dual origin of the middle ear lining incorporating some of the ideas from the
previous three models. (e—g) Histology sections through the middle ear during retraction of the mesenchyme: (e) mouse E18.5; (f) shrew PS; (g) postnatal
opossum. Arrows represent the mesenchyme retracting back from the forming tympanic membrane creating a cavity.

as would be expected given that these structures are associated with a thin layer of neural crest derived mesenchyme sand-
with the lower jaw. A similar loss of lower jaw structures and wiched in between. In fact, it has recently been shown that
mirror image duplication of upper jaw elements is observed the ear canal in mice does not develop as an extension of the
when endothelin signalling is inhibited in the chick; however, first pharyngeal cleft but forms more rostrally, solely within
strikingly in this case the ear canal is not lost but is expanded, the first pharyngeal arch [28]. The canal therefore forms
with the formation of a duplicated tympanic membrane within a Hoxa2-negative mesenchyme. In keeping with this,
associated with a duplicated columella [22]. In addition, it is duplication of first arch structures in the second arch, as
very clear from an analysis of the development of the external observed in the Hoxa2 knockout mouse, includes duplication
ear canal that the process of forming a canal is very different in of the external ear canal [29]. It would therefore be interesting
the chick and mouse. In the chick, the canal is formed by an to assess whether the non-mammalian external ear canal also
invagination of the surface epithelium [22], whereas in the forms in a region distinct from the first pharyngeal cleft.

mouse and humans, the canal is thought to form by elongation
of a solid plug of cells (the auditory meatal plug) which later