and genomic data as indicating an Early Proterozoic evolution starvation among methanogens depends on other factors that ©
of nitrogenase, and Sanchez-Baracaldo et al. [111] whose molecu- would have influenced methanogen abundance and ecology. = -s
lar clock estimates indicate a Late Proterozoic radiation of Declining hydrothermal hydrogen fluxes through time might =
N-fixing cyanobacteria in the phytoplankton. have also limited autotrophic methanogenesis, while increas- =

One issue is the bioavailability of molybdenum, a cofactor ing sulfate levels as oxygen gas began to accumulate in the -
in the most common and enzymatically efficient form of atmosphere and surface oceans would have increased compe- 2
nitrogenase. Geochemical data suggest that Mo was in short tition among heterotrophs for organic substrates. Thus, as S
supply before the rise of atmospheric oxygen, and this also noted for Mo and nitrogen fixation, questions of Ni starvation w
might have limited biological nitrogen fixation in early oceans require consideration of both supply and demand. =
[112]. Such a conclusion, however, depends strongly on the Beginning with Frausto de Silva & Williams [122], ithas &
level of Mo necessary to support N-fixation; limited exper- been argued that trace element incorporation into enzymes 3
iments suggest that required levels may, in fact, have been may reflect the distinct inventory of trace metals in early =
low [113]. Stiteken et al. [42] interpret distinctive 8°N in ecosystems. In anoxic Archean oceans, one would expect
Mid- to Late Archean samples as a diagnostic signature of elements such as Fe, Mn and Co to be relatively abundant,
Mo-based microbial nitrogen fixation; this conclusion is inter- but Mo, Cu and Zn to be rare [119,120], and phylogenetic
esting, not least because it requires Mo solubility in oceans analyses of protein structures support the view that envi-
generally interpreted as anoxic. As ever, one must bear in ronment influenced the early evolution of metallic cofactors
mind the uncertainties associated with diagenesis, hydro- (e.g. [123,124]. In particular, the key role of iron in funda-
thermal alteration and metamorphism. In general, one might mental enzymes is consistent with the inference of an early
imagine that rates of primary production varied spatially iron age based on geochemical data. Nonetheless, David &
in Archean oceans, as they do today, but co-limitation by elec- Alm [125] rightly point out that declining Fe availability in
tron donors, macronutrients and micronutrients very likely increasingly oxygenated Proterozoic and Phanerozoic
limited biological participants in the Archean carbon cycle to oceans has not been accompanied by a shift away from Fe
fluxes and reservoir sizes well below those observed in use in proteins; indeed the number of Fe-using enzymes