
four non-growing but intact (blue) and four damaged (red) imaged cells. The single-exponential fit in green yields t= (150 + 5) min (i.e. approx. 2.5 h) for
growing/dividing cells, the fit in blue yields t = (400 + 20) min (i.e. just over 6.5 h) for non-growing but intact cells, and the fit in red yields s = (260 + 20)

min (i.e. just over 4h) for damaged cells. Single molecules start being distinguishable in the cells from 7 = 3h onwards. Settings for Cy3B: epifluorescence,
exposure time 800 ms. Scale bar, 3 zm (applies to all bright-field and fluorescence images).

chemotaxis control and signal transduction. We therefore set metabolism. Recovery of motility is significant not only for
out to develop a procedure where the electroporated cells’ investigation of the interactions between CheY and FIiM in
motility recovered as quickly as possible. If the exposure to a working motor as proposed in this work, but also for the
the electric field is sufficiently short and the membrane recov- general application of the electroporation technique to the
ery sufficiently rapid for the cell to remain viable, the effects study of the interactions in vivo of a range of other chemotaxis
of electroporation are reversible (known as reversible electri- and motility proteins. In fact, previously reported exper-
cal breakdown; REB). Recovery of the membrane after iments involving such a technique in bacteria [16,30,36] did
pulsing is clearly essential to achieving motility. Relatively not consider its effects on cell motility, using a strain
little is known about the kinetics of membrane recovery (DH5a) with a demonstrated poor-motility phenotype [38].

after the membrane has been damaged by REB. We found
small numbers of cells swimming or rotating within minutes ; ao.
of electroporation, and a recovery time in rich medium (0) Motility and functionality In electroporated
(defined as at least 10% of EP and NEP cells swimming or Escherichia coli
spinning) of approximately 75min or more. For the EP
sample, this is probably due to the electric shock inflicted
by electroporation, in terms of either disruption of membrane
integrity, of proton motive force, or both. The fact that some