aceous plant remains, inclusions in precipitated minerals and cyanobacteria were fully modern in terms of their molecu-
carbonate rinds templated by cyanobacterial sheaths [5]. lar biology, but rather that the phylogenetic and functional
Most of these microfossils are simple rods and filaments, framework built through research on living cyanobacteria
whose metabolic or phylogenetic relationships can be inferred, can be applied fruitfully to the interpretation of Proterozoic
if at all, only by sedimentary association. The Proterozoic remains [7]. Proterozoic sedimentary rocks also contain
Eon (2500-541 Ma; figure 1)—Earth’s middle age—is quali- evidence of early eukaryotes (e.g. [10-12]) and microfossils
tatively distinct. A confluence of ecological circumstance and preserved in Upper Paleoproterozoic iron formations may
unique preservational mode provides a micropalaeontological preserve a record of iron-loving bacteria (figure 2c; [13]). Infor-
window through which we can view, among other things, mative as these records are, they trickle to a stop in rocks older
aspects of the diversity and environmental distribution of than about two billion years.
early cyanobacteria and eukaryotes. Stromatolites—laminated structures that can be flat-lying,
A key aspect of Proterozoic microfossil preservation lies in domal, club-shaped or conoidal—are the most conspicuous
the fact that before the radiations of sponges, radiolarians and, palaeobiological features of Proterozoic carbonates, extend-
later, diatoms, the marine silica cycle worked differently than it ing the record of microbial life in both time and space
does today. Silica commonly left the oceans as an early stage (figure 2a; [14,15]). Based on modern examples, where process
evaporitic precipitate, redistributing locally within coastal can be linked to preservable sedimentary pattern, Proterozoic
carbonate sediments to form chert concretions that preserve stromatolites are convincingly interpreted in terms of accretion
micrometre-scale textures, including microbiological features by densely interwoven cyanobacterial mat populations whose
(figure 2b,c; [6]). Thus, early diagenetic chert nodules preserve copious extracellular polymeric exudates trapped fine-grained
a microbiological record of environments in which cyanobac- sediments and provided a framework for penecontem-
teria were the principal primary producers. Relative to other poraneous carbonate precipitation [16]. As most Proterozoic
bacteria, cyanobacteria are commonly large, have distinctive stromatolites accreted in oxic environments, this interpretation
morphologies that reflect phylogenetically distinct patterns is reasonable, but in older rocks, where alternate electron
of development and life history, and produce extracellular donors would have been available, interpretation grows
polysaccharide sheaths and envelopes that are resistant to more tenuous (see below).