F-actin; dotted red curve, disassembled actin filaments on the basal side of cells; blue, basal lamina; purple, nucleus.

they are connected at the molecular level is still unknown. that appears as though it might exert a downward vertical pull-
These supracellular structures have been observed not only ing force on the apical surface of the neighbouring cells [30].
during invagination [36,37], but also in other processes These vertical ‘cables’ are not to be confused with the planar
[38-40], to coordinate contraction. arcs of actomyosin cables referred to in §4 and are entirely

One example of actomyosin cable-driven invagination is novel single-cell structures whose structure and dynamics
chicken neural tube closure, in which mediolaterally orien- remain to be investigated. As with mitotically rounding cells,
tated myosin cables run several cell lengths, promoting cell an apoptotic cell would presumably be structurally weaker
intercalation mediolaterally to both elongate the neural tube than its non-apoptotic neighbours and therefore could serve
(convergent extension) and bend the neuroepithelium as a buckling point; however, the apicobasal ‘cable’ hints at a
mediolaterally [37,41]. This planar-polarized contraction of more active mechanism, as does the fact that the apoptotic
actomyosin cables is promoted by upstream PCP signalling cell is not extruded. It seems likely the actomyosin cable has
and also polarized distribution of Celsr1 and ROCK [41]. an active role to play in apoptosis-driven buckling.

The epithelium in the developing Drosophila uses constric- Cell shortening has also been observed in other instances
tion coupled with cellular rearrangement and cell rounding of epithelial invagination. In ascidian gastrulation, Sherrard
to achieve invagination of multiple tracheal pits, which will et al. [46] showed that apical constriction of the endodermal
later form the tracheal network through which oxygen cells actually does not drive the invagination process;
diffuses towards fly tissues [36,42]. Prior to the start of inva- rather, a basolateral accumulation of myosin leads to apicoba-
gination, cells in the placode enter mitotic quiescence [36]. sal shortening of the cells and initiates the invagination. In yet
Short circumferentially aligned arcs of actomyosin cables another mechanism, dorsal folds in the early Drosophila
form transiently as groups of a few cells intercalate (likewise embryo at the onset of gastrulation are initiated by a basal
circumferentially) around the forming pit [36]. This is fol- shifting of adherens junctions of the invaginating cells, lead-