anical signalling pathways appear to integrate with a wide w
range of conventional signalling pathways (see one of man j XN
recent reviews including. 149,56. 58). Numerous cases of 8. Developmental defects, birth defects =
mechanical signalling have been identified in cultured cells, and mechanical failure 3
and we can break these cases down into three general cat- We conclude by speculating on the role of mechanics in pro- © &
egories. First, response to a mechanical stimulation might ducing developmental defects. To understand the origins of
take the form of an induced mechanical process, for instance, birth defects as well as the mechanisms of evolution, we
triggering another round of mechanical signalling or may need to understand how networks of transcriptional regu-
simply actuate a movement or deformation locally. Second, lation, signalling and mechanical processes are integrated to
the response might alternatively take the form of a biochemical create large-scale structures. Defects may arise from faults
signal and induce a specific cell behaviour such as protrusion in any of these systems; to begin the process of identifying
or assembly of a polarized structure such as a cilium. Third, the contributions of mechanical processes to birth defects,
the response might drive a transcriptional response. In fact, we define a range of ‘mechanical’ defects and turn to discuss
all three responses may be simultaneously triggered. We their contribution to structural and functional birth defects.
leave the reader to consider the many diverse potential We propose several general classes of developmental
responses; however, we would note that mechanical, gene defects can result from defects in mechanical processes. In
regulatory and biochemical signalling pathways will have one case, the tissue or organ may not match the normal
many similarities, exhibiting feedback, accommodation, time shape, size or composition at the equivalent stage. Alterna-
delays, saturation, de-sensitization, etc. For instance, just as tively, based on the normal tables of development, a process
one might consider the minimum number of ligands or the may lag behind or advance ahead of the normal rate of devel-
duration of ligand presentation before triggering a receptor opment for the embryo or adjacent tissues. Lastly, a defect
we would want to know the threshold for a mechanical signal- might manifest as an overt mechanical failure in a morphogen-
ling system, or whether the cells are measuring force or strain, etic event where a tissue ruptures, two tissues slip when they
or how cells measure mechanical gradients. should stick or as tissues buckle or fold in the wrong direction.
