is practically always retained. This again stresses the impor- hypothesized to come about because it stops the spread of | =
tance of fighting Muller’s ratchet. Real long-lived clonal selfish cytoplasmic DNA (but see below). However, because =
eukaryotes, having irreversibly lost the option of meiotic sex, of the clonal nature of organellar DNA, this is interpreted -
do exist however, and their characteristics strengthen the corre- as an evolutionarily unstable situation with mutations 2
lation between ROS and sex. Bdelloid rotifers, such as Adineta piling up over time. Reversal to biparental inheritance S
vaga, genome sequencing of which gave conclusive evidence should then occur, according to Greiner et al. [82]. But unipar- w
for the absence of meiosis and sex, are the prime example ental (mostly maternal) mitochondrial DNA inheritance = =~
[77]. These organisms have quite a lot to tell us. First of all, bdel- dominates the evolutionary landscape, and theoretical ©
loids seem to have reverted to more ‘prokaryotic’ ways to battle studies find mutations accumulating faster under biparental 3
mutations. Genomic analysis shows the following: (i) the use of transmission of mitochondria. UPI decreases within-cell 5
gene conversion, limiting the accumulation of mutations in the mitochondrial DNA variation but increases variation
absence of meiosis; (ii) an increase of genes defending against between cells, leading to efficient purifying selection of cells
transposons, with transposable elements being restricted to with higher levels of mutations [83]. In fact, the combination
3% of the genome; (iii) highly abundant horizontal gene trans- of UPI with multi-level transmission bottlenecks (so absent
fer, 8% of genes probably having been obtained by this mitochondrial recombination) seems to give rise to purifying
mechanism. An important conclusion in the light of the selection levels that are indistinguishable from those found
‘ROS-sex connection’ proposed here: gene families involved for recombining nuclear genes [84]. Modelling studies even
in ROS resistance are strongly expanded as well [77]. To be suggest that selection against heteroplasmy is enough to
able to survive desiccation, regularly occurring in their cycli- explain the evolution of UPI [85]. Heteroplasmy was indeed
cally drying freshwater habitats, bdelloid rotifers evolved shown to be genetically unstable and physiologically detri-
extraordinary resistance when confronted with ionizing mental in a mouse model [86]. Lastly, uniparental
radiation and concomitant ROS. This evolving capability (pre- inheritance might favour mitochondrial-nuclear coadaptation
venting extensive oxidative DNA damage) may have rendered [87], but see below.
meiotic sex repair mechanisms redundant [77]. These obser- There is no reason to think that sex did not evolve first in
vations regarding bdelloids are in good agreement with the the most simple form possible. The initial mode of sexual