synthesized (change in rest length), thus simulating growth. The spring-based model has its limitations, as the springs are linear, making it challenging to include
mechanical anisotropy (cells being stiffer in one direction). Therefore, finite-element models seem to be more adapted. These are surfacic elements (mesh elements
making up the cell walls in (6)), which can have anisotropic elastic properties, in contrast to the springs. Note that finite-element models require more complex
software. Image in (b): P. Krupinski 2008, unpublished.

Control of wall anisotropy. Several studies have focused on will be formed (see figure 3). So how do lateral organs
the regulation and role of wall anisotropy during organ form? It was recently shown that during auxin-induced
initiation at the meristem [46-48]. As the microfibrils them- organ initiation at the SAM, microtubules lose their anisotro-
selves cannot be visualized directly in vivo, these studies pic arrangements [47]. This suggests a scenario where the
looked at microtubule dynamics which are guiding cellulose outgrowth of lateral organs involves an anisotropy-to-
deposition [42,44,49,50]. An important feature of the growing isotropy shift. Interestingly, outgrowths form spontaneously
meristem is that the outer (surface) wall seems to be loadbear- at the surface of the meristem when microtubule arrange-
ing [51-54]. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that ments are directly perturbed. This can be achieved using
this wall is much thicker than the inner walls (typically local applications of the microtubule-depolymerizing drug
200-250 nm versus 80-120 nm in the Arabidopsis inflores- oryzalin or using mutations that perturb cytoskeleton assem-
cence meristem according to our own unpublished results). bly. Mutations in the microtubule severing protein katanin (in
This importance of the outer walls in growth control of the the so-called boterol mutant [56], which is required for the
entire meristem has an important advantage for experimen- organization of microtubules in anisotropic arrays, promote
tation, as the outer cells are easy to visualize in vivo using outgrowth formation even in the absence of auxin transport
standard confocal microscopy. [47]. This would suggest that a shift to isotropy might on its

Careful analysis of microtubule dynamics at the meri- own be sufficient to induce lateral outgrowths. In other
stem, have revealed stereotypic behaviour and supracellular words, to initiate lateral organs at the SAM the cells might
arrangements of the arrays [46,48,55]. At the tip of the SAM only have to switch off their anisotropy locally. By any
and of outgrowing organs, microtubules are highly dynamic, means, a scenario emerges where auxin at high concentrations