remain observable today. Boundaries could then get stabilized high latitudes [91] and in invasive plant species [92]. The abun-
by evolution of reproductive barriers, or a lethal hybrid zone dance of polyploid morphs in northern biota, termed
equally detrimental to sexuals as asexuals [8,19,79]. ‘geographic polyploidy’, was already an object of speculation
Geographic differences arise in this ‘neutral’ model, by Vandel [1].
because asexuals are simply assumed to persist better when Of course, parthenogenetic reproduction may interact
they are not coexisting with sexuals, and the two types do with the above advantages. If asexuality helps stabilize a
not reach all areas. This hypothesis does not require differ- hybrid or polyploid genome against meiotic disturbances or
ences in dispersal capacity between reproductive modes, deleterious introgression, then it could allow a species to
but a limited capacity of both: in the absence of differences make the most of the advantages of either [26]. As a whole,
in competitive ability, the establishment patterns are expected one could imagine fruitful ways to bring some new light
to maintain significant geographic structure only if areas are into the debate by focusing on taxonomical groups where
not continually bombarded by sustained invasion efforts of parthenogenesis occurs without hybridity or polyploidy,
each type. This hypothesis also relies on the fact that tran- for instance, in certain haplodiploid insects and mites made
sitions from sexuality to asexuality are much more frequent parthenogenetic by an endosymbiont [72,93], or diploid

than the reverse. scale insects [94]. These are largely absent from the

geographic parthenogenesis literature to date.

(b) Models in which correlates of parthenogenesis

rather than parthenogenesis itself matter (c) Uniparentality and its effect on colonizing abilities
There is also a class of models that, unlike the null models, We now turn our attention to ideas involving demographic
accept that asexuals and sexuals can differ, but retain the effects of parthenogenesis. Uniparentality is an obvious
