sub-second scale [3]. For example, Logothetis and col-
1. Biological mechanism: It is presently not known what biologi- leagues demonstrated that hippocampal SPW-Rs have a
cal mechanisms underlie propagation of low-frequency distinct rs-fMRI signature, including inter-regional tem-
activity (whether detected using the BOLD signal or poral delays of the order of those found in our resting
electrophysiological means) [31,32,47,48]. Low-frequency state studies [71,72]. Hence, we speculate that rs-fMRI
phenomenon have generally been understood as modu- propagation sequences (e.g. lag threads) may correspond
lations in cortical excitability [56-58] and previously to distinct neural processes. If this hypothesis was true,
proposed mechanisms for such propagation include bal- we would expect state-dependent changes in rs-fMRI
ance in excitatory: inhibitory activity [59], astrocytic propagation structure, as spontaneous neural events are
signalling [60,61], as well as fluctuations in cell metabolism known to be altered across state. For instance, SPW-Rs,
[62,63]. These findings suggest that observed BOLD signal slow waves, and many other neural processes are enriched
propagation likely corresponds to widespread, propagating in (awake) post-task learning periods as well as sleep
shifts in excitability, the mechanisms of which are yet to be [68,73,74]. In fact, we have indeed found that propagation
understood. Although we cannot presently elucidate patterns in rs-fMRI are sensitive to physiological changes
propagation mechanisms, extant findings do offer some in state, including before versus after motor learning tasks
hints. First, the two cortical hemispheres are completely [26], eyes open versus closed [26] and most dramatically,
synchronous, with no lag in activity [33,42]. Second, as wake versus slow wave sleep [45]. These findings suggest
shown in figure 1c, unidirectional propagation within that the propagation structure of rs-fMRI can be used to
RSNs takes nearly the same amount of time regardless of reveal fundamental neural ‘events’ or processes in spon-
whether the RSN is spatially contiguous (like the visual net- taneous activity; however, future multi-modal studies are
work) or spatially distributed (like the DM network, which necessary to investigate whether events such as SPW-Rs
has spatially separated posterior and anterior components). underlie distinct BOLD signal propagation patterns.
One explanation for these observations is that neural 4. Relations to pathophysiology: Altered neural communication
activity represented in the BOLD signal does not physically is widely assumed to be a critical component of neurolo-
