tors often deposit pollen from multiple flowers on the stigma, tandrous species (male flowers arise before female flowers),
traits such as long styles, increased stigma surface and recep- male—male competition will be severe when pollinators are
tivity, and ovule abortion, may have evolved in response to limiting and plants are likely to invest more heavily in the
female choice for the best ‘male’ [78,79]. The strength with production of nectar. And while a single pollinator visit can
which sexual selection acts on flowers and their structures result in fertilization of all ova (thus maximizing female 2
is largely dependent on whether these structures evolved fecundity), male reproductive success continues to increase ‘=
due to selection on male or female function. As in all simul- with increasing visitations (provided there are still ova ©
taneous hermaphrodites, selection acts more strongly on male to be fertilized) [89]. While it is tempting to assume that = -
than female function [80,81] because resources required to many flower traits that affect pollen removal are driven by = =
produce seeds and fruits limit female fecundity rather than sexual selection, other selective explanations, such as self- =
male availability (see §2). ing-avoidance, can also play a role and should not be -
A unique feature of plants that potentially affects the way dismissed out of hand [90]. 2
sexual selection acts is the fact that gametes in the plants are While sexual selection might play a role in maintaining S
multicellular structures that contain both tissue and the variation in floral traits, whether or not it played a role in the w
sperm and/or the egg. However, it is not clear whether such evolution of novel flower structures is unknown. For instance, = =
extra complexity provides more or fewer opportunities for the evolution of carpels (the vessel of the ovules), and the ©
sexual selection relative to the naked sperm and egg cells in corresponding seclusion of ovules and seeds, is thought to 3
other organisms. On the one hand, plant gametophytes are have occurred in response to multiple selective pressures = =
exposed to unpredictable environments, particularly when (e.g. including pollen capture and guidance, protection from
the sporophytic phase is short such as in mosses (note that predators and seed dispersal [91,92]), some of which theoret-
the same applies to filamentous ascomycete fungi, see §5), ically might have increased reproductive success via male or
which may provide stronger links between gametophyte female function. In cycads and many relatives, which display
viability and reproductive success. On the other hand, multi- ancestral forms of pollination, sticky exudates from leaves
cellular gametophytes might create fitness trade-offs if many or cones producing ovules trap pollen grains. Insects using
of the genes they express are also expressed in other plant pollen as a food source find the exudates, and thus act as