stantly ‘chase’ new and frequent targets (hotspots), switching investigate these questions in a far more comprehensive
to new ones when these targets become rare due to BGC manner. This will require continued dialogue between cell,
193]. This ‘Red Queen’ model does not require strong stabiliz- molecular and evolutionary biologists (as advocated e.g. in
ing selection on the number of COs, and closely mimics the [195]), and perhaps also the realization that similarities
pattern of hotspot turnover observed in some cases [194]. How- between features may in fact have different evolutionary
ever, this model does not explain how the second kind of explanations (e.g. different kinds of hotspots).

otspots evolved in the first place, as when it arose proper seg- One of the most salient themes in most meiosis mysteries is
regation was presumably already ensured by the first kind of the impact of genetic conflicts and SGEs. As for the evolution of
otspots (which, as seen in mice, are still active). Also, it does genome size and structure, their impact is probably central
not explain why PRDM9 action is self-destructing: there is no [196], but in many cases they remain hypothetical and difficult
necessity to induce DSBs exactly at the position of the target to demonstrate and study directly: many SGEs reach fixation
sequence for a trans-acting factor. In fact, there is no logical quickly and leave almost no visible footprint. Showing that
necessity to rely on a target sequence to maintain one CO per some meiotic features evolved to control SGEs represents an
chromosome, as fixed chromosomal features could serve this even greater challenge. Indeed, if successful, such features
purpose. It is worth noting here that recruiting promoter would prevent these SGEs from spreading, further limiting
sequences for this purpose (as found for hotspots of the first their detection. In addition, demonstrating a role in SGEs control
kind) would be very efficient, as these sequences are highly requires ruling out that these features evolved for more mechan-
stable and dispersed in the genome on all chromosomes. There istic and simpler alternatives. This is usually extremely difficult,
is also no evidence so far that targeted binding motifs of as many ad hoc mechanistic constraints can be imagined.
PRDM9 correspond to some SGEs whose elimination would be Although meiosis is highly conserved in eukaryotes, devi-
beneficial. Overall, while spectacular progress has been made ations from the norm are ubiquitous and may provide
recently in elucidating hotspot mechanisms in detail (and pat- important insights into its evolution. This is already apparent
terns in recombination landscapes), there are still major gaps in when considering model organisms (e.g. point centromeres
our understanding of their evolutionary significance. in yeast, achiasmy in male Drosophila, holokinetic chromo-