clusters corresponding to categorical signals were present by WT-like than their ISO brothers’, although ST song features
day 60, but in ISO birds the syllables at this time were still dif- were still slightly closer to ISO features than WT features.

fuse, and even at the end of song development, the categories
were not as clearly defined as in ST and WT birds.
To quantify the emergence of categories (clusters) over

development, we calculated Euclidean distances between syl- 4. Discussion
lables features (see §2). We first extracted a set of the closest We found that providing birds with playbacks of their own
nearest neighbours (100 closest syllables for each 5000 delayed song throughout song development results in the
sampled syllable) and calculated the median distance, early emergence of syllable types following a time-course
which is a simple estimate of how similar syllable features similar to that observed in normal WT song development.
were at regions of high density (close to the centre of clus- ST birds developed phonetic categories despite the fact that
ters). We did this for each bird every 5 days during their auditory input was initially a continuous and highly
development. Figure 4b shows the mean nearest neighbour variable signal. Through self-feedback, acoustically continu-
distance for each group (error bars represent SEM) over ous vocalizations evolved into categorical syllable types
development. As shown, the distances decreased with age even in the absence of categorical input. The unexpected
in all three groups, indicating the emergence of clusters, but aspect of our finding is that providing the young birds with
it decreased much more rapidly in WT and ST birds. Between feedback of their own developing songs was sufficient to
day 50 and 65, the changes were particularly large whereas in jumpstart a normal development process, which is typically
the ISO group, changes began later, mostly after day 60, and deficient and delayed in ISO birds. Figure 4 suggests that
occurred more slowly and gradually. In all three groups, the cluster differentiation in all of the experimental groups
formation and tightening of clusters slowed down and even- reached an asymptote between days 70-85, at which time
tually reached an asymptote, but this happened with a delay ISOs had not reached the level of category formation exhib-
of about 10 days in the ISO group (around day 75-80). The ited by ST birds. However, if the rate of change in ISO