oriented and eventually lost. Yet, despite small eyes and a possible. Like the sensor pixels of a digital camera, each 5
tiny brain, Megalopta achieves its feat of rainforest navigation photoreceptor samples a single ‘pixel’ of the image, and -
in the dead of night, a feat we now know is achieved when thus a single ‘pixel’ of the outside world. And just as ina =
fewer than five photons are absorbed by each of its photo- digital camera, the more photoreceptors there are, and the 8
receptors every second, a vanishingly small visual signal more tightly packed they are, the more finely the visual (>
[3]. And even more impressive, it has recently been shown scene (and its intricate contrast details) can be sampled. But N
that the humble nocturnal cockroach Periplaneta americana is there is a limit to this—as the pixel of the visual world 5
able to detect the fleeting movements of objects in its environ- sampled by each photoreceptor becomes smaller, the s
ment when fewer than one photon is absorbed by each of its amount of light it contains will also decline. Eventually, the § 3
photoreceptors every 10s [4]! pixel will contain too little light for the photoreceptor to
This astonishing visual performance allows nocturnal reliably measure its intensity.

insects to use vision for all aspects of daily life, including This undeniable fact reveals the most fundamental trade-
negotiating obstacles during locomotion, identifying mates, off in vision, that between resolution and sensitivity. In an

food and predators and for orienting in the environment eye adapted for bright daylight, when each visual pixel in

[5,6]. But exactly how is this performance achieved? What the scene contains a large amount of light, the photoreceptor

sets the visual systems of nocturnal insects apart from those packing density can afford to be high—diurnal animals, with

of insects active during the day? In this review, I will attempt no need for high sensitivity, can (and commonly do) have

to address both these questions. Part of their answer lies in eyes with high spatial resolution and the ability to discrim-
