influence host-generalism [24,25,27,29,30]. On the basis of For example, previous authors have suggested that host
these studies, verbal models have been developed that suggest specificity is more likely to evolve when hosts are abundant,
how such factors might influence the evolution of host- because increased abundance increases the probability that a
generalism more generally (table 1, and see reviews [10,35]). specialist will encounter its host [48,49]. Our model analyses
For example, host-generalism might be influenced by phylo- reveal that host abundance is unlikely to be directly relevant
genetic constraints if the fitness cost of being a generalist is to the evolution of host range. This is because, in our base
lower when the hosts are closely related [47]. However, while model, parasite fitness depends not on the total abundance
these verbal models are intuitively appealing, empirical tests of hosts, but on the abundance of susceptible hosts. The
of their predictions are often equivocal [10,35]. dynamic interaction between the host and parasite causes
Here, we take a different approach, deriving simple the abundance of susceptible hosts to depend on parasite
mathematical models that incorporate host, parasite and traits rather than host traits like carrying capacity. Thus the
environmental characteristics using principles from metabolic fitness of the generalist does not depend directly on host
scaling theory [20,31]. This allows us to incorporate biologi- abundance, which can be seen from the fact that carrying
cally feasible constraints on the epidemiological processes capacity rarely appears in the generalist R,, expressions
included in mathematical models of host—parasite inter- (appendix A, electronic supplementary material). However, if
action. We then use invasion analysis [36] to study how parasites do not affect host population size, but cannot dis-
variation in host body size, temperature, infection site and tinguish between susceptible and non-susceptible hosts
parasite life cycle influence the evolution of host range, here (cases 8 and 10 in table 2), the expressions for R,,, do depend
quantified as the effect of these characteristics on the magni- on host abundances, and specialist parasites will be favoured
tude of a generalist parasite’s invasion fitness. These analyses when it is likely that they are able to come in contact with a
predict that parasites are more likely to evolve a generalist host, as suggested by the verbal theory. Thus, by analysing
strategy when hosts are large-bodied, when variation in the question mathematically, we come to a more complete
host body size is small, and, under some assumptions, in understanding of when an intuitive verbal prediction is likely
cooler environments. to apply.
This mathematical approach can help illuminate the The results for cases 8 and 10 are an interesting contrast to