dual-mechanism model using frequency-tagged stimuli. Each ing, defined as audiometric hearing thresholds no higher
tone in the stimuli was modulated using a unique ‘tagging’ than 15 dB hearing level at octave frequencies from 0.25 to
frequency that helps parse out the corresponding neuromag- 4 kHz, with no history of hearing or neurological disorders.
netic activity for each tone. They found evidence for binaural Listeners provided written informed consent and were com-
suppression and right ear dominance for all their stimuli pensated for their participation. The experiment was carried
and concluded that the findings of their study were in line out at University College London. The University College
with the dual-mechanism model. Again, however, the authors London Ethics Committee approved the procedure for the
used a passive paradigm, with no subjective or objective experiment. All the participants used were naive and had
measures of perception or attention, and the stimuli were not taken part in any other related experiments.
limited to isolated dichotic tone pairs, rather than illusion- All 15 listeners completed both paradigms described
inducing sequences. Several other studies have used the illusion below. The whole experiment took about 2h. For each para-
to study aspects of the neural correlates of consciousness, by digm, there were five blocks with 12 test trials (60 trials per
taking advantage of the fact that the same stimulus can spon- paradigm in total). The experiment was blocked according to
taneously elicit different percepts in different listeners and paradigm. Seven participants completed paradigm 1 before
across different repetitions [20,22,23]. paradigm 2, while the others were tested in the reverse order.

An alternative approach to understanding the octave illu-
sion comes from the perspective of auditory streaming [17,24]. (ii) Paradigm 1: stimuli and procedures
Auditory streaming refers to the perceptual organization of Participants were cued, using a precursor sequence (figure 1b),
sound sequences that may either be perceived as arising from to attend to one of the four tones within the main sequence. The
a single source or multiple sources [25]. A recent study precursor sequence consisted of three low- or high-frequency
showed that the octave illusion shares a number of properties tones presented either to the left or right ear prior to the
with auditory streaming, including (i) the requirement of a mini- main sequence, in order to indicate the side and frequency to
mum frequency difference of several semitones between the two which participants should attend. The side and frequency of
tones for the illusion to occur and (ii) a temporal build-up, the precursor tones were selected at random with equal