
In the third, 2SLS, model, we analysed the risk factors for
human infections (results also in table 2). In this case, we

treated the presence or absence of H5N1 in poultry as an 5. Conclusion
endogenous variable, and the independent variables ana- Returning to the conservation question we posed at the
lysed in models 1 and 2 as instruments. We found that outset, our findings have two broad implications for
H5N1 outbreaks in poultry, instrumented on the same set the effect of bird habitat on avian influenza risk. First, since
of explanatory factors as in the first and second models, the correlation between outbreaks and rice paddy is positive,
was statistically significant at the 5% level. This, as expected, H5N1 risk may be treated as among the external costs of the
fits both with epidemiological intuition and with existing use of paddy as habitat for domesticated birds. The marginal
medical case studies of human H5N1 infections [75]. By external disease costs of paddy are positive. This is due to the
implication, the risk factors that determine the likelihood of fact that paddy enables close enough contact between dom-
outbreaks in poultry also determine the likelihood of esticated and migratory waterfowl so that the presence of
human infections. infected birds poses a risk to susceptible birds. Management
Of the four second-stage independent variables, three were of domesticated birds to reduce contact with wild birds in
statistically significant: population size at the 5% level, and per paddy would address this risk.
capita GDP and the number of CDC institutes at the 10% level. The second, unexpected, finding is that the correlation
More people mean a larger pool of potential infections, and between outbreaks and IBAs is negative, implying that the
thus had a significant positive effect on human cases as expected. marginal infectious disease cost of IBAs is negative. An
Per capita income was selected as a proxy for value at risk. We increase in the area covered by IBAs for migratory and con-
expected this to be negatively correlated with H5N1 infections, gregatory waterbirds, other things being equal, is associated
since greater value at risk generates a stronger incentive to with a reduction in the risk of H5N1 outbreaks in poultry.
undertake preventive biosecurity measures. Our findings on While the exact mechanisms behind this result are beyond
the relationship between CDC institutes and H5N1 infections the scope of this study (they are being explored in another,