effects as being the more appropriate model. to relevant agencies (as mentioned above, public health man- w
Our second model was a negative binomial regression of agement in poorer areas of China often suffers froma lack of = 'Y
H5N1 poultry outbreaks on the same set of risk factors as in funding and training). Certainly, the ratio of reported human = ©
model 1. The regression coefficients had the same signs as in cases to the poultry outbreaks appears disproportionately SS
the previous model, and again all five variables were statistic- low (41:118). Furthermore, the discreteness of poultry out- = &
ally significant, with four at the 5% threshold and one at the breaks may not be clear-cut. The numbers of birds ‘at risk’
10% threshold. IRRs are reported instead of coefficients in and the numbers infected vary from 48 to 581000 and from 2
table 2. An IRR measures relative risk, and can be interpreted to 82000, respectively. Multiple outbreaks have also been
as the factor change in H5N1 outbreaks resulting from a one- reported at the same location, or adjacent locations, and on
unit increase of the associated risk factor, holding all other the same date. The extent to which these are separate incidents
factors constant. Therefore, the results indicate that a 1% or are part of a larger, continuous outbreak may be blurred by
increase in rice paddy cover increases the number of poultry observation and reporting error, which is difficult, if not
outbreaks by 6%, while the same increase in IBA cover lowers impossible, to recognize and rectify after the fact. Nonetheless,
outbreaks by 4.3%. As a proxy for production intensity, a this dataset offers one of the best available tabulations of HSN1
one-unit increase in the log-transformed value of average infections; and the models presented represent, at the very
poultry weight (i.e. doubling the value) lowers the number least, a reasonable approximation of a complex epidemiologi-
of outbreaks by 79%. As a proxy for trade, increasing the cal, ecological and economic phenomenon.

density of commercial trucks by one vehicle per kilometre
of highway increases poultry outbreaks by 9%.

In the third, 2SLS, model, we analysed the risk factors for
human infections (results also in table 2). In this case, we

treated the presence or absence of H5N1 in poultry as an 5. Conclusion