to changes in acetylcholine or norepinephrine [34,72,73]. synapses within their spatial domain, which they can influ-
Additionally, norepinephrine shifts the gain of astrocytes to ence through the release of gliotransmitters. How the a
the appropriate behavioural state [74], thus shaping local inter- release of such transmitters is governed by calcium fluctu- s
actions with neurons in a ‘context’-dependent manner. ations is still unclear, but the relatively slow kinetics of a
Similarly, the group of Hirase recently showed that astrocytes such calcium activity makes astrocytes more suited to 2
are involved in mediating transcranial direct current stimu- respond to gross changes in neuronal activity and volume S

lation (tDCS)-induced plasticity by sensing and responding transmission of neuromodulators. While further work is
to tDCS-elicited norepinephrine release [36]. certainly needed to better understand the rules that govern = 2
Interestingly, neuromodulator signalling often relies on the release of precise sets of gliotransmitters, our appreciation “S
volume transmission that sets a long-range and long-lasting of the role of astrocytes in brain computation has grown ©
tone of neuromodulator, affecting many targets over pro- unceasingly over the past 20 years. =
longed periods of time [75]. The fact that astrocytes =
respond to neuromodulators therefore further illustrates =
how their action on synapses is mostly geared towards Competing interests. PH. is the founder of GliaCure. All other authors -
slower and more durable tuning of synaptic properties, declare no competing financial interest related to this work. ; =
Funding. Work in our laboratory is supported by a Human Frontier =)

Science Program long-term fellowship (LT000010/2013) and a o
grant from the Philippe Foundation Inc. awarded to TP., herd

4, Concluding remarks two NIH/NINDS R01 grants (no. NS037585 and AA020183)
awarded to P. H., an NIH/NIMH F31 grant (no. MH106208) 8

It has become increasingly clear that astrocytes are an active pre-doctoral fellowship awarded to J.D. and an NIH/NINDS T32 &