specifically control forms of STDP that express, for example, long-term plasticity—LTP is hard to induce at synapses that
postsynaptically [109-111], providing a potential link between are already strong [93,122-124]—which has important
behaviourally relevant behaviours and expression loci. implications for the synaptic weight distribution, memory stab-
Finally, LTD is not necessarily the opposite of LTP; this ility [125] and information capacity [126]. It has been shown
becomes even more pressing when considering the diversity that presynaptic modifications strongly depend on the initial
of expression mechanisms. In virtually all computational release probability [49], which is expected as release prob-
models, LTP induction followed by LTD induction returns ability is bounded between zero and unity. This
the synapse to its original state. Instead, in the abovementioned demonstrates that the weight dependence can stem from pre-
STDP model, such a protocol might leave the synapse in a synaptic considerations. However, postsynaptic mechanisms
different state, even if the apparent synaptic weight is the such as compartmentalization of calcium signals may also
same, as happens in the case of memory savings. A more explain this weight dependence, as it leads to large spines
direct experimental research of these issues, for instance with long necks being ‘write protected’ [127-130]. This finding
using learning and subsequent unlearning, would be worth- together with the fact that spine volume is proportional to the
while. These considerations also indicate that both the pre- expression of AMPA receptors [131] implies that small spines
and postsynaptic component need mechanisms to prevent should be more prone to LTP, which is consistent with
them from saturating and thereby losing the capacity for experimental observations [34]. Such pre- and postsynaptic
change. This might be possible by introducing soft bounds mechanisms are of course not mutually exclusive and both
for both the pre- and postsynaptic components, or introducing may contribute to the weight dependence of plasticity [123].
both pre- and postsynaptic normalization [112]. Including these effects would be an obvious next target for

the STDP model. Experimentally, it would be of interest to
apply protocols [55] that can accurately probe the short-term
plasticity parameters before and after STDP induction.

6. Discussion Long-term synaptic plasticity and homeostatic plasticity