tary eye field (SEF) neurons are active during the preparation of the subject; it is analogous to the inhibition function observed
and execution of saccades, in the saccade stop-signal task; how- in the countermanding task.

ever, these neurons with apparent movement-related activity
fail to produce signals sufficient to control gaze [16]. In the

same vein, previous work has reported that subthreshold (a) Race model approach to studying changing plans
microstimulation of the SEF improves stop-signal task perform- Theoretically, the simplest model that can account for perform-
ance in monkeys by delaying saccade initiation [17]. These ance in a redirect task involves the use of two independent
results provide a useful perspective on a recent hypothesis integrators—two GO-accumulators—GO1 and GO2, which
that identifies the stopping process with a circuit between the represent saccade preparation to initiate an action following
SMA, the inferior frontal gyrus and the subthalamic nucleus the onset of the initial and final target, respectively [28,30].
[18,19]. In fact, damage to the inferior frontal gyrus impaired However, GO-GO models fail to explain the compensation
inhibition in stop-signal trials of a countermanding task [20,21]. function in the redirect task [34] in the context of switching sac-
Most recent research in rodents or primates suggests that cade between plans. This is because such a model does not
the success in countermanding a movement is implemented allow for the cancellation of saccade preparation to the first
via a hyper-direct pathway from frontal areas to the subtha- target and therefore the proportion of error trials is much
lamic nucleus (STN) of the basal ganglia, which then more than expected. GO—GO models also predict the existence
activates the internal globus pallidus (GPi) and suppresses of averaging or midway saccades, that are not typically
thalamocortical drive. Recent subparcellated regions of STN observed in the proportion expected based on the reaction
have also been confirmed in humans using a driven time distributions of no-step trials [35]. Instead, a larger frac-
method with diffusion-weighted imaging (figure 2). The tion of averaged saccades display prominent undershoot
broad skeletomotor suppression that occurs for outright stop- (hypometry) [36,37], suggesting the presence of a STOP
page could reflect the putative divergent innervation of the signal, analogous to the countermanding signal [38]. In
GPi by the STN, for which there is some evidence from neur- addition, recent modelling work suggests the presence of a