position (°)

Figure 2. Eye position offsets caused by suppression of rostral SC activity. (a) Schematic of how neuronal activity is centred and balanced across the two SC during
normal steady fixation. Higher activity is indicated by hotter colours. (b) During suppression of SC activity caused by injection of muscimol, a GABA, agonist that
inhibits neuronal activity, some of the neurons normally active during fixation are silent or less active, as indicated by the cool spot in the SC map. This change in
population activity results in an imbalance in the activity across the two SC. (c) Sample data from a monkey subject (Macaca mulatta) showing the observed
tightward and downward offsets in eye position caused by injecting muscimol into the right rostral SC during one experiment. (d) The stable offset caused
by rostral SC inactivation can be explained by changes in how activity is distributed across the SC. As the eye position shifts down and to the right, the retinotopic
distribution of activity also shifts, until a new equilibrium is reached with balanced activity across the two SC. Figure adapted with permission from [42,43].

important to note, however, that the offset is not an oculomo- [54], acting through the mechanisms described above. Fix-
tor disorder because the deviation of the eye in the orbit is ation offsets have also been reported during unilateral
contralateral when the head is free to move. In fact, the mag- pharmacological perturbation of the frontal eye fields [55].
nitude of the offset is identical regardless of whether the head There are also frontal monosynaptic projections directly to
is fixed or free, indicating an alteration in the equilibrium the omnipause region in the brainstem [56], raising the possi-
reached as gaze was directed towards the target [48]. bility that the output from the cortex exercises independent

The role of the SC and MPC in encoding the location of control over fixation and the gating of eye movements at
fixation has relevance for understanding the adaptation that the final motor stages of processing.

often takes place in clinical cases of macular degeneration
in the retina [49]. The degeneration creates a blind spot that
often affects the central visual field, nullifying the normal

advantage of fixating visual objects on the fovea. These 4, Eye movements during maintained fixation