experimental paradigms that are used in these experiments, the medial frontal cortex. Potential conflict signals have been
the actual error rate in ‘high conflict’ conditions is typically found in SEF [60], but not ACC [62], using an identical stop-
low (5-8%). Instead, what is typically seen is a lengthening of signal paradigm. Recent human recording studies have
reaction times, which is interpreted as being caused by the con- shown that monitoring signals appear earlier in the SMA
flict and the need to suppress it. This interpretation is not than in the ACC [96].
unreasonable, but it confounds the interpretation of neuronal Lastly, it might be that the conflict hypothesis, at least in
activity modulations that are observed during high conflict its original conception, is not the best conceptual framework
trials. This activity could represent conflict monitoring, for describing the function of medial frontal cortex. The con-
increased control efforts, or both. Unfortunately, this problem flict monitoring theory has been further developed in recent
also affects recent studies that claimed to have found explicit years to address in more detail how monitoring signals are
conflict signals represented by single neurons recorded in used to allocate control [66]. In this updated theory, the
human ACC [91]. medial frontal cortex, in particular the ACC, uses a number
An additional problem for the conflict hypothesis is the fact of monitoring signals, including conflict, to compute the
that single unit recording and lesion studies in monkeys have costs and benefits of exerting control over response selection
shown no evidence for response conflict representation in processes. The resulting expected value of control (EVC)
ACC [61,62,92]. A recent study described ACC neurons that signal is used to adjust the level of control or to select the con-
were active whenever a behaviourally highly relevant distractor trol strategy that maximizes EVC [97]. The EVC theory is
(the image of a monkey face) was present during a simple visu- more flexible with respect to the nature of monitoring signals
ally guided saccade task [93]. These signals were independent of and does not rely exclusively on conflict signals; it is therefore
the conflict between mutually exclusive actions, confirming in better agreement with the monkey recording data. How-
the earlier results in the ACC of monkeys. The authors of this ever, critical predictions of the EVC theory have not yet
study interpreted the neuronal signal as evidence for ‘task con- been tested in electrophysiological experiments. In particular,

flict’, i.e. conflict between different potential behavioural goals. it will be important to demonstrate the existence of EVC
