cryo-EM [61]. full pores in the biological function of pneumolysin and
COPII coats were first resolved by SP cryo-EM of in vitro other CDCs.
assembled cages composed of the sub-complex (Sec13/31) As previously mentioned, the application of cryo-ET in situ
but lacked both the membrane and cargo [60]. Using sub- often requires the sample to be thinned in order to be compa-
tomogram averaging, it has recently been possible to describe tible with high-resolution imaging. One of the early examples
the assembly of the complete COPII transport vesicle with a of structural biology in situ is the analysis of the architecture of
resolution of approximately 2 nm (figure 2b). In this case, desmosomes [70]. Here, the authors performed 80 nm
the vesicles were also assembled in vitro but in the presence cryo-sections on a vitrified epithelial tissue and could get a
of membranes and the cargo-binding proteins (Sec23/24). complete view over the desmosomal region. They then
Similarly, COPI-coated vesicles have recently been described applied sub-tomogram averaging to enhance the resolution
through sub-tomogram averaging [62,63]. The difficulties on the extracellular region and obtained enough detail to
linked to generate stable COPII complexes that were not allow fitting of pre-existing crystal structures.
associated with the membrane, together with the fact that Among the most studied large membrane-associated
every vesicle is different, required a method that could complexes is the nuclear pore complex (NPC). This machine
inspect a structure locally without expecting a rigidly ordered is 124 MDa in size, highly dynamic and is composed of
repetitive structure. approximately 450 proteins [71]. The size of the NPC makes
Over the past years, it has been possible to attempt struc- it impossible to purify or assemble the whole complex
tural biology directly within the cell. A sample preparation in vitro. The early structural studies were performed on Xeno-
method that includes the use of a focused ion beam (FIB) to pus laevis oocytes [72] and provided a general understanding
etch away a part of the sample that does not contain the struc- of the symmetry and architecture of the NPC to a resolution
tures of interest allows thick samples to be studied using of approximately 12 nm. Subsequent studies performed on
cryo-ET [12]. This approach can be coupled to fluorescence Dictyostelium discoideum as well as on human cells achieved
light microscopy in order to specifically target the region a resolution down to 2nm [73,74], providing a detailed
containing the complex to be studied, using CLEM [21]. understanding of the mechanisms used to allow the passage
Using this method to prepare the sample, intracisternal protein of molecules through the NPC (figure 2d).