112,113]. Consistent with this notion, Bax/Bak-induced
Drp1 SUMOylation at the ER/mitochondria interface stabil-
izes signalling platforms for calcium and lipid transfer
between both organelles, as well as for cristae remodelling
and cytochrome c release [30,71,114].
To date, several contradictory studies challenge the interplay The current data available support two alternative models
between the alterations occurring at the mitochondria during for the role of Drp1 in apoptosis: (i) Drp1-mediated cristae


remodelling, independent of Bax activity; and (ii) Drp1- self-assemble into multiple oligomeric species that organize 6 |

induced Bax oligomerization, independent of cristae into diverse structures at the MOM, including lines, arcs
remodelling. Nevertheless, the fact that these proteins co- and rings, and concentrate at distinct foci. Both arcs and a
localize at the same mitochondrial foci during apoptosis rings delineate membrane pores that mediate the release of s
suggests that there could be a direct interplay between the apoptotic factors. In parallel, Drp1 also becomes enriched
them in order to regulate structural changes at mitochondria in these foci where, together with MiD49/51, it stabilizes sig-
in apoptosis. Bcl-2 proteins could cooperate with the mito- nalling platforms that modulate lipid and calcium exchange
chondrial fission machinery to efficiently mediate cristae between the ER and mitochondria and play a role in mito-
remodelling, fragmentation and MOMP during apoptosis. chondrial fragmentation and in the reorganization of the = 2
Further research will be needed to fully understand the MIM cristae. Exciting research lies ahead to uncover the mol- “2
molecular mechanisms involved in this interplay (figure 3). ecular mechanisms that interconnect these processes and = ‘©
their functional relevance for efficient apoptosis induction. ~
5. Concluding remarks s
The multiple alterations that mitochondria undergo during Authors’ contributions AJ.G.-S. and B.U.-U. conceived and wrote the -
apoptosis include the remodelling of the cristae ultrastruc- manuscript - a ~