
Alternatively, it is also possible that the increase in schoo While most work on the effect of hypoxia on schooling has
volume may be a physiological response, due to an alteration been based on progressive exposure to low-oxygen levels, the
in the sensory performance of each school member, thereby effect of acute (2 min) versus progressive exposure (90 min)
increasing the distance from its neighbours [15]. This increase to hypoxia was investigated in schools of anchovies. The rate
in the school volume was given by the increase in all of oxygen decline was found to modulate the effects of hypoxia
dimensions of the school (X, Y and Z). Although the horizontal on schooling in this fish species [86]. If hypoxia is reached pro-
spread of the school increased significantly, compared with gressively (in 90 min [86]), no change in schooling behaviour
normoxia, at 30% oxygen saturation, the school depth was is evident, while a fast and acute decline in oxygen satura-
found to be significantly different from normoxia only at tion (2 min) can significantly alter the schooling behaviour
20% or less oxygen saturation [15]. Similarly, Israeli & (e.g. altered swimming speed [86]). These findings highlight
Kimmel [87] found that hypoxia mainly increased horizontal the importance of determining the time course of oxygen
dimensions, while the school depth remained constant in level changes in the wild. In fact, if hypoxia is induced by
Carassius auratus. It is therefore possible that the first response plant and algal oxygen consumption, the temporal change in
of schools to hypoxia is to increase the horizontal spacing the DO may be of the order of hours [15] with no clear
between fish. This would allow fish to increase the indi- change in the schooling behaviour. However, if a school
vidual water volume (therefore oxygen availability), while swims across an oxygen gradient, the temporal change from
keeping some hydrodynamic advantages from the neighbours normoxia to hypoxia is of the order of seconds, and such a
swimming in front of them [75,77—79,88] (see §3a). Generally fast change in oxygen levels can alter schooling behaviour
speaking, fish swimming in a flat-shaped school can [15]. These fast reactions may depend on the peripheral
maintain some of the energetic advantages derived from O,-sensitive receptors located in the gills [89].

swimming behind neighbours, while fish swimming in Unlike most species studied, exposure to progressive
different vertical planes would not benefit from such advan- hypoxia (time from normoxia to hypoxia 270 min) does not
tages [71,82]. While it is likely that changes in horizontal affect the shoal structure of striped surfperch [90]. School