
(a) Instrumental hypot eses change in brain size across the entire order. An obvious
These hypotheses focus mainly on the demands of food- alternative explanation might be that smart foraging is a
finding and implicitly (but almost never explicitly) assume by-product of acquiring a brain of a particular minimum
that foraging is the single most important constraint on an ani- size (i.e. breaking through a glass ceiling on brain evolution).
mal’s fitness. In effect, this is the default position for ecologists. What evidence is there to suggest that ecological or techni-
In early analyses, frugivory [25] was assumed to be cognitively cal decision-making has actual fitness consequences? Only one
more demanding than folivory, and it may well be: fruits are study has assessed this directly: Altmann [67,68] showed that
less predictable in time and space than leaves. However, phy- female baboons who were better able to match an optimal
logenetic comparative analyses find no relationship between diet (in terms of energy and protein intake) as yearlings sur-
the degree of dietary frugivory and brain size when controlling vived longer, had longer reproductive careers and produced
for social group size across mammals [6,34,52]—though the more offspring (whether indexed as total number of births or
latter fact may be the crucial giveaway in that it may indicate the number that survived to 12 months). Although the
that a change of diet is needed when large groups are involved sample size is small (1 = 6 females), the results are remarkably
because of the effect that group size has on energetics [19]. linear and convincing. Large brains certainly provide the
More importantly, perhaps, for smart foraging to capacity to engage in efficient trial-and-error problem-solving
have any traction as an explanation, it is necessary to show or insightful one-trial learning [69].
that primates do something different from non-primates— A more important issue concerns the assumption that food is,
otherwise why would they need bigger brains than other or by extension energy budgets are, the primary factor influencing
mammals? For this reason, more recent studies have focused an animal's fitness, either because all other extrinsic effects are
on foraging innovations, including the discovery and exploi- trivial by comparison or because foraging is the only factor that
tation of novel foods [52] or novel means of accessing foods an animal can actually control through its behaviour. In fact, for
[34]. A number of analyses have shown that foraging inno- mammals generally, and primates in particular, predation is
vations correlate with brain size in both birds and primates also a major consideration [70-72] and has a much greater effect
[17,53-55], and this relationship has in turn been related to on species’ biogeographic distributions [19,73]—and this is