timescale. In many cases, however, the coevolutionary process Although taking different approaches and using different
is so tightly locked that there is insufficient temporal precision variables, these two path analyses come to essentially the
to detect a difference [10]. same conclusion: brain evolution is driven largely by social

Even so, when doing so, it is important that both the factors, with instrumental skills being a beneficial spin-off
hypotheses and their behavioural indices are covalent (i.e. of (probably because they exploit the same cognitive mechanisms)
equal logical standing). This is especially true if we use multiple which is nonetheless essential because they solve the inevitable
regression to compare the influence of two alternative behav- energetic bind that large brains necessarily entail. Increasing
ioural indices. Recent examples where this desideratum has body mass to support a bigger brain [50] may bring with it
not been observed include: Bailey & Geary [63], who used well known savings of scale in terms of basal metabolic rate
multiple regression to test between environmental instability that allow surplus energy to be diverted to fuelling brain
(an index of energy challenge: an environmental driver) and growth and maintenance [24,145], but this does not obviate
social competition (with fossil abundance used as a proxy by the fact that bigger bodies consume absolutely more energy.
population density: a consequence) in hominin brain evolution; In sum, the set of variables that have been correlated with
Charvet & Finlay [44], who tested between body weight (an brain size are part of a single, integrated biological system
index of energy flow: a constraint) and social group size (a func- whose components are all essential, but which play impor-
tion); MacLean ef al. [18], who tested between behavioural tantly different roles in the explanatory story. The feedback
inhibition (a cognitive variable, and hence a mechanism) and loops in this model explain why all variables correlate as
social group size (a function) in mammals as a whole; and well as they do.

Benson-Amram et al. [103], who tested between problem-
solving ability (a cognitive measure) and social group size
(a functional index) in hyaenids (notwithstanding the fact

that, in the latter two cases, SBH does not apply as a quanti- 4, What makes primate sociality s0 different?