multiple regression to test between environmental instability that allow surplus energy to be diverted to fuelling brain
(an index of energy challenge: an environmental driver) and growth and maintenance [24,145], but this does not obviate
social competition (with fossil abundance used as a proxy by the fact that bigger bodies consume absolutely more energy.
population density: a consequence) in hominin brain evolution; In sum, the set of variables that have been correlated with
Charvet & Finlay [44], who tested between body weight (an brain size are part of a single, integrated biological system
index of energy flow: a constraint) and social group size (a func- whose components are all essential, but which play impor-
tion); MacLean ef al. [18], who tested between behavioural tantly different roles in the explanatory story. The feedback
inhibition (a cognitive variable, and hence a mechanism) and loops in this model explain why all variables correlate as
social group size (a function) in mammals as a whole; and well as they do.

Benson-Amram et al. [103], who tested between problem-
solving ability (a cognitive measure) and social group size
(a functional index) in hyaenids (notwithstanding the fact

that, in the latter two cases, SBH does not apply as a quanti- 4, What makes primate sociality s0 different?
tative relationship to mammals as a whole). All conclude We identified primate sociality as a key element in this story:
that some aspect of environmental conditions is the main (or so what is it about primate sociality that is so cognitively
only) driver of brain evolution. In one sense, that goes without demanding as to require a large brain? We address this ques-
saying, since even the SBH is an ecological hypothesis (groups tion in more detail elsewhere, but for present purposes we
exist to solve an ecological problem: the issue is do the animals highlight two key features of primate sociality that we see
solve the ecological problem socially or by individual skills). as being crucially different from most other mammals and
Confusing one kind of explanation with another is a type of birds, and which are likely to be cognitively very demanding.
logical error known as a category mistake. One is the fact that primate social groups exist to provide a
An alternative approach is needed. A particularly suitable passive defence against predators [70,146—150]; in primates, in
one is path analysis (or structural equation modelling), since particular, group size is adjusted to the level of experienced