and strong endogenously driven circannual rhythm of development at the right time relative to when females
hibernation and reproduction [154-157]. emerge from hibernation.

Although there is considerable variation in the timing of
emergence of reproductively competent males between
populations [168], within a population the emergence

(a) Do female ground squirrels prefer early-emerging

males? timing of reproductive males is highly synchronized and
Seasonal timing of reproduction may be most critical to the occurs within about 12 days with greater than 70% of repro-
arctic ground squirrel (Spermophilus parryii) owing to the ductive males on the surface before the emergence of the first
environmental conditions of their high latitude distribution. female [167]. This occurs despite the fact that animals are in
Over winter they are exposed to extremely low temperatures solitary hibernation with no access to environmental cues
during hibernation, with hibernacula temperatures decreas- for up to 270 days [169,170]. Males that successfully accumu-
ing to a minimum of —25°C. The brevity of the arctic late and defend a cache prior to hibernation can end
summer necessitates mating to occur in the early spring heterothermy with sufficient time to increase body mass
when air temperatures are well below freezing, snow blan- and become reproductively competent to compete for
kets the tundra and green-up is weeks away [158]. For mating opportunities with other males. It is clear that
males, high thermogenic costs of terminating hibernation at timing is critical to reproductive success of arctic ground
low ambient temperatures [159-161] and lack of available squirrels and it is possible that females select males based
forage on the surface in spring [162] are offset by exogenous on their seasonal emergence times. However, many open
energy stores in the form of food cached in the previous questions remain, for example which cues females use to
summer and autumn [163]. In spring, male arctic ground distinguish among males with different emergence times
squirrels draw from these food caches to fuel their approxi- because females emerge much later.