[124], social effects have been observed in many other contexts. tal variable that affects the phenotype a cue (also sometimes =
For example, Drosophila flies that are placed with conspecifics called a proximate factor [65]), and the phenotype is said to -
change their locomotor activity rhythms compared with the be phenotypically plastic [127]. Ecologists then plot the phenotype
pattern they show in solitude, and these changes depend on against the cue—usually using a linear regression rather than a S
whether flies are grouped with a male or a female partner [125]. higher order relationship—to derive what is termed a reaction w

The examples above show that understanding plasticity is norm [25]. The reaction norm (if linear) has two characteristics: — 'Y
at the intersection of the fields of chronobiology and ecology. the slope, which is the sensitivity of the phenotype to the cue, ©
From a chronobiological perspective, the circadian system dis- and the elevation, which is the value of the phenotype in the Ss
plays many layers of plasticity, enabling it to adjust the mean environment (table 1b-e). It is important to realize that = S
temporal organization of organisms to an ever changing the environmental variable the animals respond to (the cue)
environment. Such plasticity is enhanced by its mechanistic and the environmental variable that affects their fitness (the
complexity, whose many parts and multiple oscillators offer selective agent) do not need to be the same. In fact, very often
numerous ways of adjusting internal clock time, and thereby they are different as the phenotype is shaped at a different
making the system less rigid. Therefore, complexity could be time than when the phenotype is under selection [29]: in the
the key to addressing the apparent paradox of ‘How can a case of the Arctic-breeding birds the selective agent is the date
biological system be rigid and conserved, but at the same of snow melt [128], but the cues used to shape their phenotype,
time plastic’? Resolving this paradox requires us to under- their arrival date, are likely to be different. The cue can be a geo-
stand how the system works—what are the gears, how do physical predictor, such as increasing day length in the winter
they work together and how do they respond to ecologically quarters or at a stop-over site, or another abiotic (e.g. tempera-
relevant factors, such that the timing system as a whole ture at the staging areas) or biotic factor (e.g. observation of
generates plasticity. other migratory individuals; figure 1).

For the field of ecology, whose central theme is the inter- Effects of these cues can depend on the phase of an animal’s
action of species with their environment, investigating annual cycle (cf. table 1c): for example, in autumn, migration of