
fiers, ‘reader’ motifs and interacting proteins have been less the most important process. Recent findings have revealed


that RNA Pol II-dependent transcription is arrested in the translocation formation. An important goal for future work | 3 |

vicinity of a DSB in a manner that requires chromatin remodel- will be to determine how the modifications and chromatin
ling, which may itself influence the DSB repair process [7,8,32]. dynamics change in a temporal and_ location-dependent a
Yasui and colleagues [33] provide a review of the chromatin manner, as well as how they are influenced by ongoing s
changes involved in that process. As discussed in this review, DNA transactions.
emerging evidence indicates that there is a repair process that Similarly, the data regarding the role of upstream signalling
occurs in regions open for transcription interfacing transcrip- factors do not lend themselves well to a straightforward single
tional arrest and repair, akin to the distinction between model. This is almost certainly due to the fact that not all events
transcription coupled repair and global genome repair at UV will take place at every break. The location, timing, and com- 2
photoproducts. An emerging topic in the field of DNA repair plexity of the break are just a few of the factors that might “2
is the contribution of transcription and RNA to the repair pro- influence which events are carried out and in what order. s
cess [34-36]. In particular, DNA-RNA hybrids or R-loops can Another critical question is about how the pre-existing — -5
present a source of DNA damage but equally can profoundly chromatin environment influences pathway usage so that the = =
influence the repair process. Sebastian & Oberdoerffer [37] cell uses the optimal choice. The core process of DNA non- S
provide a timely review of the influence of RNA on genome homologous end-joining (c-NHE]) represents a compact pro- -
maintenance. Although less focused on chromatin, this cess, demanding little chromatin opening. There may, in fact, 2
review is significant in overviewing the evidence for how be a significant benefit from a highly compacted environment S
RNA or R-loops can drive transcription-associated DNA distal to a DSB undergoing c-NHE] to restrict the possibility of w
damage as well as potentially providing a template to optimize translocation events, which can potentially occur readily by = 'Y
DSB repair. Insight into this novel aspect of DSB formation and c-NHE] owing to the lack of requirement for sequence hom- ©