context, INO80 appeared to bind both RNAPII [2] and the chromatin decompaction and increased both the flexibility of i
RNAPII-associated complex PAF1 [3]. Chromatin immunopre- the chromatin fibre and its dynamics, a reflection of decreased 2
cipitation studies performed in mutants argued that both local constraint (figure le). A similar mechanism has been S
INO80 and Paf1 are needed to achieve an efficient removal of documented in mammalian cells upon UV-induced damage,  w
the transcription complex, and its transient degradation, at even if in this case histones were displaced, in an INO80- ~
sites where the replisome collides with highly transcribed independent manner, from the site of the damage rather than ©
genes [3]. In this context, it is relevant to note that INO80 trig- degraded [86]. The differences observed between yeast and Ss
gers the proteasome-dependent degradation of histones mammalian cells could either reflect the nature of the &
following Zeocin®-induced DNA damage as well [38], and damage (Zeocin® induces mostly single- and double-strand
that both events require activation of the Mecl-Ddc2 check- breaks, whereas UV induces thymidine dimers) or divergence
point kinase (ATR-ATRIP). This function of INO80 might be in the repair process across evolution. Although the exact role
specifically activated under stress conditions, given that several of INO80 in chromatin mobility is far from understood, the
subunits of the complex are phosphorylated by the checkpoint fact that nucleosome eviction and histone degradation are
kinase Mecl/ATR [74-76]. The requirement of Mecl for the involved links it to functions previously ascribed to this
degradation of RNAPII and histones argues that this event ATP-dependent remodeller.
may be an integral part of the DNA damage or DNA replica- The function of INO80-dependent chromatin mobility may
tion checkpoint response. Whether the checkpoint kinases be many-fold, yet it could also simply be an inadvertent side
modulate INO80 subunit composition or its ligands at these effect of the end-resection and chromatin remodelling events
sites is unknown. Clearly, further work is necessary to clarify that occur during DSB repair. On the other hand, chromatin
how the Mec1-INO80-Pafl triad helps remove RNAPII from dynamics may facilitate relocation to subnuclear sites that
chromatin. favour specific repair outcomes, or which harbour factors

that bias repair towards one pathway over another. In the
case of endonuclease-induced persistent DSBs, there are at
least two distinct sites at the nuclear periphery to which