ERC, and placing at its helm the Minister of Defence as its of the NERC whose core function was to collect and analyse
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), with immediate effect, coordi- real-time data and inform decision-making. MOHS and
nation of the response was taken out of the hands of the RSLAF staff assigned to it were paired with an inter-
MOHS [16]. Some interviewees contended the Minister of national—usually from the WHO, CDC or British military.
Defence was chosen to be the NERC CEO not only because he An advisor from AGI was also among the staff, and the
ad the political clout to hold other ministers to account, but police and ONS were also represented, as well as UNMEER
also because it was considered he could work well with the and OCHA.
British. The NERC then expanded to other functions. Another

A vast majority of interviewees—both Sierra Leonean and main operational unit was the planning directorate, which
international—strongly defended that move. They said that it was responsible for, among other aspects, national strategy
was the right thing to do given the scale of the outbreak, the creation and review, planning for national campaigns and
fact that it had escalated beyond a health issue to a humanitarian asset management, distribution and tracking. A third oper-
emergency, and the MOHS'’s inability to demonstrate that it ational arm, the field operations directorate, consisted of the
could adequately manage the response, even though it had rapid response team charged with delivering the NERC’s
knock-on effects that undermined certain aspects of the response. operational support.

The MOHS was nevertheless integrated into the response, The NERC absorbed the technical pillars that had been
with a seat at the decision-making table in the NERC, but used by the EOC and reconfigured them as the needs chan-
most notably it retained leadership of the pillars of the tech- ged. The technical component of the response, through
nical aspect of the response. Also, MOHS workers accounted these pillars, remained the domain of the MOHS, which led

for a significant portion of the frontline workforce. each pillar, with the support of a UN agency. The pillar

