associated with little or no paternal care [21,31], and a male- are not synchronized [41,70]. Seasonal reproduction in
biased OSR in humans has been linked to the evolution of annual breeders will trigger a similar shift towards succes-
male parenting [135], the occurrence of direct paternal care sively more male-biased OSR as fertilized females drop out
across primates is not obviously related to ASR variation, a pre- of the mating pool in the course of the mating season
diction that can be tested with phylogenetically controlled [57,150]. In some species, males may also drop out of the
comparative analyses. mating pool as the mating season progresses [119,151]. How-
Indirect forms of paternal care may be more widespread ever, it is not straightforward to decide at which temporal
because they are less costly and because predation and infan- scale, variation in the OSR is relevant because females of
ticide jeopardize infant survival more than other sources of different species differ in the duration and degree of syn-
early infant death in many species [136,137]. The permanent chrony of their receptive periods (figure 2). This problem
association between males and _ infant-carrying females, highlights the more general question of how animals proxi-
which distinguishes primates from other mammalian mately perceive variation in the number of adult males and
orders, has been proposed to reflect an anti-infanticide strat- females at a biologically meaningful scale. The fact that
egy [138]. Infant protection is not only in the father’s direct ASR and OSR are only poorly correlated in some (bird)
interest, but it can also reflect mating effort. It is therefore species [155] underscores the importance of choosing the
not surprising that in some species, males and females form right measure.
temporary ‘friendships’ that extend from mating to weaning Hence, exclusive reliance on the more readily available
[139], with male care for infants being conditional upon prior data on SSR to analyse male reproductive strategies and
mating, at least in baboons and chimpanzees [140,141], so their consequences may fall short for two reasons. First, the
that these friendships seem to reflect parental rather than constraints imposed by a species’ social organization may
mating effort. In this particular context, ASR variation can result in identical numbers of adult males per social unit,
apparently lead to behavioural consequences. For example, which can vary greatly in the number of adult females, how-
female baboons compete over such male friends when ASR ever. Every comparison between any gibbon species and a

becomes more female-biased [142,143], indicating that ASR sympatric langur species with one-male groups will illustrate