
its petals using yellow fluorescent betaxanthin and a violet most spiders have poor vision, it has been suggested that
absorbing betacyanin pigment, and this is suggested to act as their fluorescence has evolved under the selective pressure a
a guide to pollinating bees and bats as they see green [31]. of predatory insects or birds. Both these groups possess UV s
Aside from a fluorescent emission and excitation measurement and other short-wavelength spectral sensitivities, and spider a
of the pigment extract, this study does not address criteria (a—e). fluorescence is predicted to help camouflage in brightly 2
Indeed, this work along with a similar study by Ono et al. on coloured flowers or elsewhere. S
the yellow snapdragon flower [32] has been criticized by Iriel, One family, the jumping spiders (Salticidae), have excel- =
Lagorio and co-workers [1,14], who measured rather low lent vision and multiple, UV-green, spectral sensitivities in =
fluorescence quantum yields from a number of flowers. These their large antero-median eyes. They show complex mating ‘=
authors also calculated the quantum catch by bird, bee and behaviour involving a suite of signalling mechanisms.
human photoreceptors viewing flower reflectance measure- Daiqin Li and colleagues make a convincing case (including = 5
ments, not in fact their fluorescence quotient, arguing that it is evidence from all criteria a—e) that the sexual dimorphism = =
small compared to the reflectance signal as seen by the animal. of fluorescence in the ornate jumping spider Cosmophasis =

Carnivorous pitcher plants attract insects and small umbratica is behaviourally relevant [37]. Males have UV- -
mammals as an important source of protein and minerals, reflecting patches and females do not, while females possess 2
respectively, using nectar, olfactory and colour cues. Kurup UV-excited, green-emitting pedipalps (figure 1). Using filters S
et al. suggest they also use fluorescence [22] and successfully over display arenas to remove both UV and, also therefore, w
consider (if not fully quantify) criteria (a—e). This study used fluorescence decreased courtship responses in both sexes. — 'Y
carefully controlled behaviour and masking of the blue Males, but not females, possess and apparently need UV &
fluorescence emission (430-480 nm—a range that insects are reflectance to look sexy, so removing UV from the overall Ss
specifically sensitive to, see below) from around the lip of the appearance of females has less effect, reinforcing the idea
pitcher (figure 1), and subsequent prey capture rate decreased that it is their fluorescent palps that help in mate choice.
