both one- and two-dimensional photonic crystals, as well as in flies [28]. This new fleet of imaging technology has important a
an element of irregularity or disorder, that increase the consequences for surveillance, medical endoscopy, smart 2
angle of scattering such that the colours are apparent from clothing, robotics and drones [24,25,29]. S
a broader range of viewing angles [5,20]. As biomimetic efforts in imaging and sensing continue, we =
In addition to optical properties, it is important to contem- expect to see increased emphasis on colour processing and =
plate other properties of materials, such as their stability, colour discrimination—which will require detailed knowledge ‘
durability, mechanical and thermal properties. This requires of colour vision systems across animal taxa. Consider nocturnal = ‘©
consideration of multiple components of the solar spectrum helmet geckos Tarentola chazaliae, which possess large colour — =s
including ultraviolet (280-400 nm), visible light (400-700 nm) cones that are 350 times more sensitive than those of humans =
and near-infrared (700-2600 nm) radiation. Ultraviolet radi- at the colour vision threshold [30], or the mantis shrimp =
ation causes chemical reactions that damage biological (eyes, Haptosquilla trispinosa. Despite the shrimp having 12 different -
skin, etc.) and synthetic materials, and visible and near-infrared photoreceptor types, they appear to be deficient in fine colour 2
reflectance are both important to surface heat gain because discrimination [31] and may in fact scan objects to rapidly S
approximately 50% of direct solar radiation falls within each recognize basic colours, though this idea needs further testing. w
of these wavelength bands. Development of nanophotonic- It is only a matter of time before new camera systems exploit | 'Y
enabled smart materials to control environmental energy flow, increased colour sensitivity, as in geckos, and rapid colour ©
including solar radiation, is burgeoning. For example, ‘cool coat- processing, as in mantis shrimps. Ss
ings’ for roofs and buildings can be used to mitigate the ‘urban Breakthroughs in night vision technologies are also on the &
heat island’ effect and reduce energy use [21]. Such materials horizon. How are so many nocturnal insects able to see
reflect a higher proportion of near-infrared radiation than simi- colour, identify visual landmarks, orient using celestial cues
larly coloured ‘standard’ coatings. The biomimetic potential for and detect faint movements, all in low light? A recent hypoth-
manipulating both visible and near-infrared reflectance is esis [32] is that insects achieve this through a process called
significant (although yet unrealized) because in plants and ani- neural summation, in which the light received by groups of
mals, visible and near-infrared reflectance and the relationship neighbouring ommatidia is summed up, greatly improving
between them can vary substantially [22]. Living organisms the signal-to-noise ratio in low light. A night vision computer