additional boost from the fluorophore of selective value tats in the ocean, there was enough UV/Vviolet light to excite
(see electronic supplementary material, figure S2)? We have the fluorescence to levels between an additional 7-10% extra
already suggested fluorescence can be seen in broad daylight on top of reflected light, and that the yellow fluorescence
in certain situations, and a few previous studies have contrasted well against the predominant blue cast of the
attempted to quantify the additional boost to colours from ocean substrate. A good correlation between the narrow-
fluorescence alone [7,16—-18,25,26]. Mazel and Fuchs [16] band stomatopod spectral sensitivities and fluorescent
use the terms ‘overt’ and ‘covert’ to describe fluorescence emission was found: the sharply tuned sensitivities in part
that can be seen in natural illumination or only at night the result of yellow filters within the stomatopod retina
using extra light, respectively. [12]; figure 2(i). Finally, estimates were made to model or
There are two spectrally restricted sources of illumination quantify the contribution of fluorescence to the signal
in the natural world, light at depth in water or light from bio- received by photoreceptors with an additional 15-30% to
luminescent organs. Photophores (bioluminescent organs) in the photon capture of the best matched sensitivity over a
fact often convert their naturally blue bioluminescent light to depth range of 20-40 m. From our checklist, (a-d) were well
green using what is aptly named ‘green fluorescent protein’ covered but the most convincing evidence, behaviour (e),
(GFP). This is common in jellyfish and other cnidarians was not attempted. It was suggested that as the fluorescence
and may be used to increase visibility range in greener coastal was found on areas displayed during conspecific contest or
waters where this conversion is common [27]. Orange and mate choice that the fluorescence was visually significant.
red light is also made by fluorophores converting blue bio- This work, therefore, remains a well-backed supposition until
luminescence and potentially ambient light in deeper-sea tested behaviourally.

bioluminescent species [28,29]. Against the deep-blue meso-
pelagic or dark inky depths, such light may not travel far

but it will be both contrasting and unusual. Any game fisher- (b) Plants
