and polymorphisms—and indeed chick colour mimicry and the senses are engaged, and brood parasites and hosts
polymorphisms—tepresents one of the most crucial goals for across diverse lineages have evolved many adaptations evok-
future work. Only by illuminating the genetic and genomic ing the acoustic, tactile and possibly olfactory modalities. We
bases of adaptation in parasites and hosts will we gain a full review and contrast these adaptations at each stage of the
picture of how and when such adaptations evolved, how they avian brood parasitic process in table 1. Moving forward, it
coevolve with other traits and how they are maintained or will be essential to study vision-based adaptations as they
lost over time. In the context of adaptive animal coloration, relate to other sensory adaptations. Two pressing questions
Hubbard et al. [94] outline several essential questions: How are: (i) Why do the vision and acoustic domains predominate
many genes influence pigment variation? Are the same genes in avian brood parasite—host systems? (ii) Are visual and
responsible for convergent phenotypes? How is colour variation acoustic adaptations complementary or redundant?
influenced by selection? Can we detect signatures of selection in Our analysis (table 1) shows that the visual and acoustic
pigmentation genes? These are the questions we must also senses are dominant, and adaptations are much more plenti-
answer in avian brood parasite—host systems. In fact, because ful and elaborate in these domains. However, in some avian

coloration traits are under such intense selection pressure, systems, tactile and perhaps olfactory adaptations have taken


on new importance. For example, yellow warblers Setophaga ejected its nest-mates—rapidly shifts to mimic the correct | 9 |

petechia probably use touch to determine if they have been begging calls of its actual host species, whether it begins
parasitized, burying or deserting parasitized clutches if they life in the nest of a fairy-wren or a thornbill host [37]. Thus, a
detect a too-large egg [98]. In addition, Eurasian magpie fixed visual versus flexible acoustic signals may facilitate s
Pica pica hosts of great spotted cuckoos can detect odours the escalation of different types of arms races in different
of experimental eggs, but whether they actually use odour avian brood parasite—host systems. As a start, we should
when rejecting natural parasitic eggs has yet to be determined explore these ideas by analysing the extent to which fixed