tive naive hESCs exhibited overall dampened X-linked gene causally participate in the erosion, by interfering with XIST = -s
expression levels compared with those not expressing XIST expression or accumulation. In agreement with this hypothe =
[12]. Thus, the correlation of XCD and XIST observed in esis, when XACT was artificially inserted onto one X =
human pre-implantation embryos appears to be recapitulated chromosome in female mESCs, XCI was biased towards the -
in vitro in the transition from primed to naive hESCs. These untargeted X chromosome. In other words, forced expression 2
observations suggest that naive hESCs will also serve as of XACT from one X reduced the likelihood of Xist accumu- S
model system for further exploring the novel X-linked gene lating on the very same chromosome, at least in a w
dosage compensation mechanism of XCD. heterologous system [5]. X
In addition to serving as an in vitro model of the pre- What about XACT in the human embryo? Combining &
implantation human embryo, naive culture conditions also analysis of multiple datasets of single-cell RNA-sequencing s
provide a means of overcoming the XCI anomalies observed and RNA-FISH confirmed that XACT is not an artefact of ©
in primed PSCs (discussed in §5). When primed hESCs with hPSC in culture, and that it is expressed in pre-implantation
either a slight or very high degree of XCI erosion, or even embryos [5]. Its expression is in fact strongly correlated to
those that are trapped in the XIST-negative XaXa state, are that of XIST in the early developmental stages (up to early
adapted to the naive culture condition described by Theunis- E5), where it accumulates, together with XIST, on every X
sen ef al. [59], and then subjected to differentiation, regardless chromosome in both male and female embryos (figure 2).
of the starting primed XCI state, all of them result in cells This pattern of active X chromosomes simultaneously
with the proper somatic-like X-chromosome state: with an decorated by XIST and XACT is recapitulated to some
Xa and an XIST-expressing Xi [12]. These findings demon- extent in naive hPSCs derived either in 5iLAF or in t2iL +
strate that XCI erosion in primed hPSCs is truly just an Go conditions [5,12,58,59], further reinforcing the idea that
anomaly caused by imperfect culture conditions and can be these naive conditions indeed bookmark the in vivo situation.
reversed given the right media formulation. Moreover, the Intriguingly, in both cases XIST RNA was found more dis-
ability to induce de novo XCI upon differentiation of naive persed in the nucleus compared with cells in which XIST
hESCs (figure 2) [12] now opens opportunities of studying coats the Xi [5,12]. This altered distribution of XIST might
this epigenetic process in the human system for the first time. be linked to its inability to properly silence X chromosome