within a 4.5Mb region around the Xist locus in mouse ated [43-45]. Using their high-resolution Hi-C data, Rao et al.
embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and discovered that this region [42] showed that the human Xi, but not the Xa, features a
consisted of a series of discrete 200 kb—1 Mb regions that series of ‘superloops’ of interaction anchored at 24 X-linked
showed preferential interactions, which they termed topolo- loci. Among these loci were the IncRNA loci XIST, DXZ4,
gically associating domains (TADs). TADs were observed FIRRE and ICCE (loc550643), the latter three of which consist
both before and after ESC differentiation to neuronal progeni- of tandem repeats that are euchromatic in character and bind
tor cells (NPCs) and in male primary mouse embryonic CTCF only in the Xi [44]. Indeed, all but one of the 24 super-
fibroblasts (MEFs). Furthermore, in the differentiated cells, loop anchor points were determined to exist along the
TADs were retained by both the Xa and the Xi based on Xi-bound CTCF, confirming the factor’s critical role in 3D
super-resolution 3D DNA-FISH and the deconvolution of conformation of nuclear DNA.
female MEF 5C data into contributions from each X chromo- In situ DNase Hi-C is a variant of the Hi-C protocol that
some. However, TADs were attenuated along the Xi uses DNase to digest DNA rather than relying on restriction
presumably due to the fact that XCI leads to a reduction in endonucleases that depend on specific cut sites, thereby
these intra-TAD contact frequencies. improving coverage and resolution [46]. Using this method

The Hi-C protocol extends the 5C method and theoreti- on a highly polymorphic F,; hybrid mouse system (BL6 x
cally permits one to determine the contact frequencies spretus) with skewed XCI both in vivo (whole brain with a
between all DNA-DNA interactions, at least for mappable spretus Xi) and in vitro (Patski cells with a BL6 Xi), Deng
regions of the genome, by essentially multiplexing 4C-seq and co-workers produced allelic contact maps that revealed
across every locus of interest. However, very deep sequen- that the Xi possessed less defined TADs relative to the Xa,
cing is typically required to obtain reasonable levels of as had also been observed in mouse fibroblasts (figure 1a,b)
coverage and resolution, especially in the case of mammalian [47,48]. In their place were found two superdomains, demon-
genomes [37,38]. Briefly, Hi-C bridges interacting DNA frag- strating a bipartite structure of the mouse Xi (figure 1b).
ments along with a biotin, which can be selected with Three-dimensional models inferred from the DNase Hi-C
streptavidin beads to produce a library representing a data allowed for the definition of a hinge between the super-