in intertidal MPB communities has frequently been linked to cell factors (e.g. cell surface area to volume ratio [24]) the relative
motility as it allows cells to search for optimal environmental contribution of Rubisco and B-carboxylases is difficult to
conditions with regards to decisive abiotic parameters, namely decipher. In a controlled experiment with the model diatom
light intensity (e.g. [7,8]). species Phaeodactylum tricornutum, Cassar & Laws [23]

showed that the metabolic role of B-carboxylases is anaplerotic
and has a marginal impact on the carbon fractionation.

2. Carbon limitation in benthic diatom Regardless of the mechanistic basis, it is well established
that CCMs increase the CO2 concentration and the CO2/O,

communities ratio at the Rubisco catalytic sites, increasing its carboxylation
Despite the fact that concentrations of dissolved inorganic specific activity. This is achieved most probably by an
carbon (DIC) in seawater are usually high and relatively con- increased CO, concentration within the pyrenoid, a low
stant (approx. 2 mmol17'), the low diffusion coefficient for CO,-permeable organelle of diatom chloroplasts where
CO, in water has the potential to restrict the rate of photosyn- Rubisco is located [18]. The low permeability of the pyrenoid
thesis in diatoms [9]. CO, is the inorganic carbon form used to CO, is probably due to its proteic nature, since lipid mem-
by the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase branes are extremely permeable to small neutral molecules,
(Rubisco; EC 4.1.1.39), which only accounts for approxi- such as COz, in contrast with charged ions such as HCO;
mately 1% of total inorganic carbon, HCO, being the [18]. Hopkinson ef al. [18] found values of membrane per-
predominant form. Therefore, the usual CO, concentration meability to CO, ranging from 15x10? to 5.6 x
in seawater (at atmospheric equilibrium at 25°C) is around 10°? cms! in four diatom species, making clear that the plas-
10 uM. As the reported K1/2 (CO2) of diatoms’ Rubisco is malemma is not a significant barrier to CO. Therefore, a DIC
23-68 1M [10], photosynthesis of marine diatoms could, in transport system based on membrane CO, transporters would
principle, be limited by carbon supply [11]. In fact, in spite be extremely inefficient. By contrast, the values of membrane