Figure 6. Diatoms and their role in the biological carbon pump as revealed by high-throughput DNA sequence-based datasets. Eukaryotic lineages associated to
environmental parameters assessed by standard methods for regression-based modelling (sPLS analysis). Correlations between lineages and environmental par-
ameters are depicted as a clustered heat map. This plot has been created using the Jara Oceans metabarcoding dataset (providing an abundance matrix
based on 18s rDNA ribotypes (V9 region) from oligotrophic stations as well as a few Southern Ocean stations [48,81] and the associated environmental parameters
[86]. With respect to other eukaryotic lineages, diatoms (Bacillariophyta) show significant correlations with NPP and chlorophyll, and the highest positive correlation
to carbon flux (more than 0.46), supporting the hypothesis that diatoms play a major role in the biological carbon pump at a global scale.

consequence of CO) released into the atmosphere from the Authors’ contributions. C.B. conceived and designed the manuscript, and
burning of fossil fuels. The overprint of human activities all authors contributed significantly to the writing and the creation of
on Earth’s biogeochemical cycles is evident from the the figures. A.-S.B., F.M.I. and C.B. worked on the sections of evol-

imple f h ly burni h ivall f utionary and biogeochemical events and diatom genomics. A.-S.B.,
simple fact that we are currently burning the equivalent o L.B. and L.G. presented the biological carbon pump. F.M.L, OJ.

around 1 million years of buried carbon derived from and S.D. compared the marine sediments with modern distributions.
diatoms and other plankton each year [2]. While we can be LB. and L.G. were in charge of the eco-systems biology and
confident that the oceans will continue for some time to high-throughput sequencing sections.

be the major sink absorbing excess heat and CO;, and will Competing interests. We have no competing interests.

consequently warm, acidify, and deoxygenate in the coming Funding. C.B. acknowledges funding from the ERC Advanced Award
centuries [87,88], we have no consistent view about how the ‘Diatomite’, the Louis D Foundation, the Gordon and Betty Moore Foun-

dation, and the French Government ‘Investissements d’Avenir’
