Figure 1. The many routes for horizontal gene transfer. DNA can be transferred between individuals by multiple mechanisms falling broadly into three categories. In
transduction (blue text), DNA is transferred either as part of the phage genome itself or as additional DNA packaged into phage particles or gene transfer agents. In
conjugation (yellow text), donor cells form conjugative pili, typically encoded on plasmids or integrative conjugative elements, through which DNA is transferred.
Finally, transformation (red text) is the process by which DNA in the environment is actively taken up by the donor cell. In addition, recent studies have shown that
bacteria can also transfer DNA fragments in membrane-bound vesicles and via nanotubes.

phage, but are incapable of carrying the genes for particle replacement of longer stretches of DNA with shorter ones,
production [39]. Genes can also be transferred between bac- and hence is more prone to reducing, rather than expanding,
teria that form intercellular connections via nanotubes [40] genome content [47]. Various restrictions on assimilating
or membrane fusion [41]. Some bacteria release DNA- DNA from unrelated strains suggest that transformation
containing membrane-bound vesicles that can carry genetic may tend towards being a more conservative than innovative
information to new hosts [42]. Mycobacteria undergo an unu- process [48,49]. But perhaps more importantly, many of these
sual form of conjugation that appears to be regulated in part by mechanisms are not in fact under the control of the bacteria
the recipient, does not require oriT and results in transconju- but are instead controlled by semi-autonomous segments of
gants whose genomes are a patchwork of their parents’ [43,44]. DNA which, far from being functional tools for bacterial
Once DNA has entered a recipient, it must replicate to gene exchange, have their own self-interest at heart.

avoid loss by segregation during cell division. Incoming DNA
can carry its own origin of replication thus replicating separ-

ately from the chromosome of its new host. Such is the case 4. Mobile genetic elements: perpetrators of

for plasmids: pieces of DNA, usually circular, that remain

physically distinct from the chromosome [45]. Alternatively, horizontal gene transfer