(chronic) psychological stress are associated with lower established the optimal mTAC time course and stimulation =
mTAC may be a reflection of impairment in cell-mediated conditions before the development and use of the in vitro =
immunity. In addition, chronic stress exposure is associated study stimulation protocol to address the study aims. Fur- -
with a higher level of oxidative stress [44,74]. Oxidative stress thermore, to the best of our knowledge, our study is the 2
decreases telomerase activity and induces senescence (or apop- first to systematically investigate the within- and between- S
tosis) via DNA damage-induced activation of the p53 pathway, subject stability of stimulated telomerase activity responses w
probably by causing erosion of telomeres or perhaps by indu- (mTAC) in women and men with respect to chronobiological — ¥”
cing nuclear exclusion of hTERT into mitochondria [32,33]. and stress-related influences. =
Senescent CD28™ T cells show impaired upregulation of tel- Limitations of our study include the unavailability of 3
omerase activity after antigen stimulation [63] and could measures of telomere length in our study subjects, the relatively = =
therefore inhibit mTAC. modest sample size, and the restricted range of age and BMI in
In our study population, a larger cortisol increase in our study subjects. Any interpretation of sex effects is limited
response to an acute psychosocial stressor was related to by the fact that all the women in our study were using oral con-
lower mTAC. An individual’s biological stress reactivity traceptives. While the absence of chronobiological or acute
measure can be considered a stress-related trait and has been stress effects on mTAC in our study may provide a justification
studied in the context of several stress-related pathologies for future studies against requiring multiple mTAC measures
and conditions [75]. Previous findings showed that greater cor- over the course of a day or in response to an acute challenge,
tisol response to an acute stressor was associated with shorter we note, based on the within-subject correlations of serial
telomere length, as were higher overnight urinary-free cortisol measures of mTAC indicating a shared variance of approxi-
levels and flatter daytime cortisol slope [76]. In line with our mately 50-65%, that measurement issues such as single
finding, exposure to exogenous cortisol has been shown to versus average of multiple samples remain an important con-
inhibit telomerase production in human T cells stimulated sideration. Finally, because mTAC was measured in isolated
with PHA and IL-2 [59]. Glucocorticoids place a limit on the circulating immune cells (PBMCs) in the context of immune
maximal activity of the immune system, modulate inflamma- cell activation and clonal T-cell expansion, it is unclear whether
tory gene transcription [77] and can either through direct this measure also reflects the capacity of haematopoietic stem