expressed as a function of the activities (fraction of active blocks, thereby contributing to a more efficient dissipation of — -5
targets) of its two alleles. On the other hand, more complex LD. Unlike what we have considered in our model thus far, =
models could be imagined, for which the results presented this specific form of selection is inherently frequency-dependent =
here are not valid, in particular, if the fitness of an allele and therfore genuinely diversifying. As a result, it would -
directly depends on population-level quantities, such as the provide a mechanism for explaining high levels of PRDM9 2
amount of linkage disequilibrium (see below). polymorphism without having to invoke very high mutation S
Self-consistent mean-field approximations have already rates at this locus. In turn, allowing for a lower mutation rate w
been used in the context of other evolutionary problems u would then make it possible to accomodate more reasonable = 'Y
(e.g. in [33]). They could, in principle, be applied to many values for the strength of dBGC, g, while still predicting ©
other evolutionary Red Queen models, at least if the aim is to significant levels of depletion of recombination landscapes. s
characterize the stationary regime. A key argument, repeatedly DS
used throughout our self-consistent mean-field derivation, is
the tiling principle (figure 6). This argument is in fact a specific (@) Perspectives

instance of the ergodicity principle, which states that averages
over the population and averages over allelic trajectories have
identical expectations at stationarity. The specific form taken
here by this principle is a consequence of the strong-selection
assumption. However, ergodicity arguments could be used
under more general conditions, in combination with diffusion
approximations, so as to derive mean-field approximations
that would also be valid in nearly neutral regimes. Such math-
ematical developments appear to be relatively complex,
although not out of reach.
