estimated to be of the order of 107°. Assuming a 10:1 ratio in the weak erosion regime, using a first-order approximation s
for NCO versus CO events, this gives an estimate for g of the as a function of €. This approximation is less accurate inmore =
order of 10”, thus slightly higher than our estimate. However, intense regimes, although, even then, it correctly describes the
this is an upper bound, granting systematic conversion of qualitative behaviour of the process.
the target site of PRDM9 upon each DSB initiation and assum- First, the mean level of erosion R, strength of selection on
ing complete inactivation of the target site by single point new PRDM9 alleles sy and turnover time T do not depend on
mutations. In practice, there is indirect evidence that conver- effective population size N, (figures 2 and 4). Intuitively, the
sion of the target site is not systematic in the mouse, in equilbrium recombination activity is determined by the rela-
particular in the case of NCOs [32]. In addition, mutations tive magnitude of the two forces of the Red Queen, erosion
are only partially inactivating PRDM9 binding, as indicated and invasion, both of which are proportional to Ne. The effec-
by the presence of multiple substitutions at many of the now tive population size cancels out from their ratio, and thus the
extinct hot spots. Combined together, these two lines of empiri- equilibrium set point does not depend on N,.
cal observations suggest that ¢ might in fact be substantially Second, both 1 — R and sp increase with the erosion rate vg
lower than 107. and decrease with the mutation rate u at the PRDM9 locus.
Thus, altogether, the strength of dBGC and the functional Similar observations concerning the role of mutation rates at
mutation rate at the PRDM9 locus are both predicted by our the targets and at the PRDM9 locus were previously reported
model to be close to their highest possible value compatible based on simulation analyses [21]. Here, we give a more quan-
with current empirical observations. titative estimate of this scaling, in terms of €. Specifically, in the
weak erosion regime, 1 — R and sp scale as \/€, whereas T scales
as 1/,/e.
6. Discussion Third, in the polymorphic regime, mean recombination

activity and PRDM9 diversity are essentially uncoupled—in
the weak erosion limit, the first depends only on € and the
second only on N,u. Intuitively, the mean recombination