TAMs, the role of the miR-miRceptor interaction in drug going post-surgery sepsis expressed high levels of miR-K-10b
resistance has been investigated. In 2015, our group showed and miR-K12-12*, two miRs produced by Kaposi sarcoma

that miR-21 (but not miR-29a) is released by neuroblastoma herpes virus (KSHV), compared to patients who underwent


surgery but never developed the septic condition. Moreover, addition to human TLR8 and murine TLR7, there are other | 4 |

they showed that miR-K-10b and miR-K12-12* trigger the miRceptors out there. This is a quite interesting question,
septic condition by binding to TLR8 in histiocytes and indu- since it could involve considerations on the many currently a
cing the secretion of IL-6 and other cytokines that mediate the existing ‘orphan’ receptors (meaning receptors for which a s
shock response [38]. Interestingly, activation of TLR7 and ligand has not been identified yet). Perhaps the classification a
TLR8 has also been observed in response to the innate of them as ‘orphan’ is a bias due to the fact that we do not = 2
immune recognition of HIV-1 infection [39], leading to the consider the possibility that their ligand might be an RNA, S.
hypothesis that HIV-derived miRs may also be able to bind instead of a protein. Another point of discussion is about =
to the miRceptors, therefore affecting the immune response the ‘geographic’ distribution of the miRceptors within the =
to the HIV-1 infection [40]. TME: which cells express the miRceptor and which one(s) “2
Acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD) is a frequently do not? In our experimental approaches there is a need to ‘©
lethal complication of allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell simplify the complexity of the TME in order to reach rigorous -5
transplantation (HSCT) whose triggering mechanism is scientific deductions. However, focusing on a two-cell inter- =
poorly understood. In 2013, Garzon’s laboratory deep action model has the disadvantage of losing track of the S
sequenced paired samples from 10 patients who developed ‘big picture’, with the risk of ignoring perhaps a different -
aGVHD after HSCT and controls who did not develop cell population within the TME that mediates a much strong-
aGVHD. They identified a signature of differentially expressed er miRceptor-mediated response to the miR-binding. The S
miRs, with miR-146 and miR-29a among the most upregulated next set of questions regards the binding of the miR to the w