
Figure 1. Changes in responses of mouse V1 to visual stimulation during monocular deprivation in the critical period in wild-type (open symbols) and TNFa
knockout (filled symbols) mice. (a,b) Responses of deprived (contralateral) and open (ipsilateral) eyes in the binocular zone of V1, measured using intrinsic
signal imaging. Note that initial loss of deprived-eye responses during the first 2-3 days of MD is unaffected, while subsequent increase in open-eye responses
is prevented by the mutation. (c) Responses in the monocular zone of V1, which does not receive open-eye input, revealing similar plasticity in deprived-eye
responses. Data from Kaneko et al. [17].

cortical activity. This reduction in cortical activity appears to week of MD did not reduce monocular zone responses to
stimulate an upregulation of cortical responses to the remain- the sole, deprived eye that drives it, certainly not to the
ing inputs. Indeed, a hypothetical homeostatic compensation same extent as in the binocular zone. This finding was inter-
for reduced cortical activity provides an explanation not preted as evidence that competition between the pathways
only for the dramatic increase in responses to the open eye serving the two eyes was necessary for plasticity. However,
after 2-3 days of MD but also for the surprising fact that using longitudinal measurements of visual responses we
even the deprived-eye responses start to increase to some found that deprived-eye responses in the monocular zone
extent at the same time. The hypothesis that the increase in of wild-type mice were reduced as much as in the binocular
open-eye response resulted from homeostatic compensation zone during the first 2-3 days of MD, but the responses
for the reduction of the powerful drive from the deprived returned to normal levels by the end of a week of conti-
contralateral eye remained an attractive but idle speculation nued MD. This finding suggested that the apparent lack of
until a means was found to block an essential step in the plasticity in the monocular zone was due to the same homeo-
mechanism of homeostatic regulation. static synaptic scaling that takes place in the binocular
Stellwagen & Malenka [18] studied a model of homeostatic zone. To test this idea, we measured the effect of MD in the
regulation in vitro, measuring the change in spontaneous monocular zone of TNFa /~ mice, which lack homeostatic
synaptic events in hippocampal slices and cultures that were synaptic scaling. Indeed, unlike in WT mice, responses to the
subjected to several days of blockade of activity or synaptic deprived eye did not recover after the first few days of MD,
transmission. Normally, such a transient blockade causes a and were even smaller at the end of the week than they had