
Figure 3. Cryo-scanning electron micrographs of freeze-fractured hornwort gametophytes (a—c) and sporophytes (d—i): Anthoceros agrestis (a,,d—f); Folioceros
fusiformis (b); Leiosporoceros dussii (g); Megaceros enigmaticus (h); Dendroceros granulatus (i). Sections through thalli showing mucilage-filled cavities (asterisk).
(qd Nostoc colony. (d,g) Intercellular spaces are initially liquid-filled (asterisk) but become gas-filled (e, arrowed) following stomatal opening. (f) Columella with gas-
filled (asterisk) intercellular spaces. (h,/) Young (h) and mature (/) sporophytes of astomate taxa, showing complete absence of intercellular spaces in the assimilatory
layers which collapse and dry (/). Scale bars: (a,b) 200 zm; (deg) 50 jum; (¢fh,/) 20 jum.

with leaves with thin cell walls (e.g. Tetraphis, Atrichum, In 10 stomate genera the dry weights increase by 14% (Bra-
Funaria, Physcomitrium, Bryum, Amblystegium) and lower in chythecium) to 32% (Tortula) between the onset of stomatal
those with thicker walls (e.g. Polytrichum, Grimmia, Leskea). opening (determined by light microscope observations on

Moss sporophytes lose water much more slowly than the expanding capsules) and its completion, whereas the increase
gametophytes; in fact, the rates were closely similar to those in is over 117% for the same developmental stage in Funaria.
excised evergreen xeromorphic vascular plant leaves and Thereafter, until spore maturation, a period lasting from four
much slower than from mesic fern leaves; 24 h of drying resulted to 16 weeks depending on the species, weight increases range
in a more than 50% water loss in only three taxa, Mnium, from 25% (Atrichum) to 46% (Funaria). From stomatal initiation
Plagiomnium and Amblystegium, while water loss remained less to spore maturation the weight increase in Funaria (217%) far
than 50% even after 72 h in five taxa. Light microscopy of speci- exceeds that in all the other genera where the maximum is
mens mounted in immersion oil [50] revealed that the stomata 81% in Mnium hornum. The weight increases in the astomate
remained open throughout the experimental treatments. Atrichum and Dicranella lie within the range for the stomate

genera and there is no relationship between the increases in
sporophyte biomass and the number of stomata in the latter.

(f) Sporophyte growth after stomatal opening