played important roles in the mobilization of nutrients in
early aquatic food webs. Direct evidence of fungi as parts
of food webs in the Rhynie ecosystem comes from coprolites
containing fragments of hyphae and fungal spores [98].

(v) Fungi— cyanobacteria Remarks: Perexiflasca tayloriana was initially described (but
A cyanolichen-like association has been described from the not named) by Taylor et al. ([24]: figs 1-14) based on specimens
Rhynie chert as Winfrenatia reticulata [99,100]. It occurs in the in degrading H. lignieri rhizomes and aerial axes. The material
form of a thallus constructed of superimposed layers of parallel illustrated by these authors includes several specimens with
hyphae. The uppermost layers are folded vertically into loops one to several prominent, papilla-like projections (referred to as
that forma pattern of ridges and circular to elliptical depressions ‘lobes’ in [24]) extending from the outer component. It is unclear
on the surface (figure 3e). Extending from the walls of the whether these specimens also belong to P. tayloriana or represent a
depressions are hyphae that form a three-dimensional network. different organism. Support for the latter is perhaps the fact that
As a result of hyphal branching, each depression consists of the discharge tube in the papillate form is conical (right arrow
lacunae that are formed by the mycobiont. The cyanobacterial in ((24], fig. 6), rather than tubular as in P. tayloriana. Moreover,
photobiont consists of coccoid cells or clusters of cells, each no papilla-like projections have been observed in any of the
cluster surrounded by a prominent sheath, that occur within greater than 1000 specimens that form the basis for the present
the lacunae of the hyphal net (figure 3f). Winfrenatia reticulata study. We therefore refrained from including characters of the
most probably colonized hard substrates such as degrading papillate specimens into the diagnoses.

sinter surfaces and may have weathered rock surfaces, thus Description: Most specimens occur in partially intact

contributing to soil formation [101]. (senescent or dying) or degrading land plant axes, often

