et al. [23]. Following training on either two or three stimuli, bees were as 109 from 110 would be expected to be longer than discrimi-
tested in discrimination or transfer tests with a sample of numerosity nating 110 from 190; such a ratio-dependent effect is a signature
either two or (illustrated here) three (in the actual experiments the correct of an analogue system [36]. However, with an analogue
arm of the Y-maze was randomized). (a) Exact pattern match. (b) Pattern magnitude system mapped to a symbolic number system, arbi-
matching by numerosity only. Size, configuration, colour were varied in exten- trarily large numbers can be discriminated with the same
sive series of transfer tests to rule out non-numerical cues. (c) Bees were able accuracy (albeit with a speed—accuracy trade-off) as small
to match to sample when distractor contained novel numerosity (four), but ones, and indeed without the need for an increased working-
performance was not significantly above chance when the sample contained memory capacity. All that is needed is to keep track of the
the novel numerosity (d). Bees were also unable to discriminate between last number counted, and a spatial counting strategy to avoid
stimuli containing four and six items (not shown). counting items twice (e.g. left to right plus top to bottom in a
vertical 2D display). Without word labels, counting to higher

mass with individual prey items, suggesting the spiders kept numbers is inherently much more challenging. It has in fact
track of prey numerosity. been suggested that the development of uniquely human cog-

nition involved an evolutionary trade-off between working
. memory and symbolic representation capacities [37].
3. Systems for number representation “e P P

Human numerosity discrimination may involve counting, esti-

mation or subitizing [27]. Counting, in the strictest sense of the 4. What accounts for the upper limit of around

word, requires a symbolic number system (numerals), devel- fi ble j . ac)
oped in some human cultures [28]. In animals, counting-like our countable items in many species: