
animals are known to use both numerical and continuous stimuli were matched for the cumulative surface area or for | 4 |

information (see [42]). Evidence in the literature shows that the convex hull, showing that the subjects had primarily
fish also tend to discriminate between quantities using both used these continuous quantities during the learning process. a
continuous quantities and number. On the contrary, the contour length and total brightness did = S
For instance, when placed in the presence of two shoals, not affect the performance of the fish. However, when trained
mosquitofish are able to discriminate the larger shoal given ina condition in which all continuous quantities had been con-
both small (1 versus 2, 2 versus 3 and 3 versus 4 conspecifics) trolled for since the beginning of the training, mosquitofish
and large (4 versus 8 and 4 versus 10) numerical contrasts. proved to be able to solve the task, showing that fish can dis-
However, when the cumulative surface area of the two stimu- criminate between bi-dimensional inanimate objects using =.
lus-shoals was controlled for (e.g. by presenting larger solely numerical information [52]. 3
individuals in the numerically smaller stimulus-shoal and smal- The fact that fish primarily use continuous quantities in ©
ler individuals in the larger stimulus-shoal), they were unable both spontaneous-choice and discrimination-learning exper- 5
to select the larger shoal [43]. The same result was also observed iments suggests that mosquitofish may use number only asa = =
in angelfish [44]. ‘last resort’ strategy, when no other continuous quantity is =
The total activity of the shoals is another continuous available [53]. One reason could be that processing numerical -
quantity that plays an important role. One way to control information is more cognitively demanding than processing 2
for this continuous quantity is to vary the water temperature continuous quantities. If so, fish should exhibit a lower learn- S
of the stimulus aquaria. In a 2-versus-4 contrast, zebrafish ing rate when required to use numerical information only, w
ceased to select the larger shoal after the total activity of instead of continuous quantities only. To directly test this
the stimulus-shoals was equalized with this method [45]. hypothesis, Agrillo ef al. [54] trained mosquitofish to discrimi- 5
A similar result was reported for mosquitofish (4 versus 8 nate a 0.67 ratio in three different conditions: one in which they s
fish, [43]) and angelfish (5 versus 10 fish, [46]). could discriminate 2 from 3 figures using only numerical infor- =
The above-mentioned studies were useful to assess mation, one in which they could only use continuous quantities