cellular functions, genetic variants are common in patients binding affinity (figure 1). This regulation is important to the =
with mental health disorders, suggesting FKBP51 may be a understanding of several affective diseases, since these dis- “2
therapeutic target for the treatment of these disorders. This orders have been associated with both increased and ©
review will focus on the role of Hsp90/FKBP51 heterocom- decreased GR sensitivity along with changes in basal and = -5
plexes in GR signalling and how dysregulation of this stimulated cortisol levels. =
pathway has been associated with stress-related illnesses such S
as anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder . . . . ”
(PTSD). Advances inusing FKBES1 asa biomarkerand potential (b) FKBP51: stress, epigenetic and genetic regulation =
therapeutics targeting this pathway will also be discussed. Here we discuss how dysregulation of the Hsp90/FKBP51 het- -&
erocomplex may increase the susceptibility to developing 3
psychiatric disorders. Variations in the function of this chaper- — @
one complex can be caused by changes in FKBP5 levels dueto = '&
2. Hsp90/ FKBP51 heterocomplexes genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors. In fact, several &
. co . . studies have demonstrated that the interaction of stress with w
(a) Hypot alamic— pituitary — adrenal axis regulation FKBP5 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), such as
and g ucocorticoid receptor signalling rs1360780, increases the risk for developing PTSD (see [19]
Our central stress response system is the HPA axis. Upon stress, for review). Additionally, this allelic variant (rs1360780) has
the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus secretes corti- been shown to increase FKBP5 expression through decreased
cotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), which stimulates the DNA methylation [20,21], which can also lead to GR resistance
release of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from the [22]. Similarly, other FKBP5 allelic variations have been linked
pituitary gland into the blood. ACTH activates the synthesis to several mental disorders such as anxiety, depression and
and secretion of glucocorticoids (like cortisol) from the adrenal schizophrenia [23-28] (figure 2). This suggests that, in addition
glands, leading to higher cortisol levels in blood and tissues. to environmental factors such as stress, our genetic predisposi-
The stress hormone, cortisol, targets two main receptors: miner- tion may alter our neurophysiology including biochemical
alocorticoid receptor (MR) and GR. In particular, GR is highly processes, brain connectivity and gene expression (figure 3).