immune T cells [57]. Phase III clinical trials have been initiated with, HSP tolerance therapies may join the bandwagon of
subsequently and are not finished at this moment. novel cell-based therapies. The former director of the Ameri-
In RA, first trials were done with dnaJ peptides. The dnaJ can Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), J. Bluestone,
family of proteins, also known as HSP40, contain a 70 amino mentioned the advent of cellular medicines for the next dec-
acid consensus sequence known as the J domain. The J ades [62]: ‘Two decades ago, the pharmaceutical industry
domain of DnaJ interacts with Hsp70. DnaJ HSPs play a role was revolutionized by the discovery that biological processes
in regulating the ATPase activity of Hsp70. dnaJP1 is a 15-mer can be harnessed to make medical products (biologics).
synthetic peptide that shares homology with the ‘shared epi- Today, biomedicine sits on the cusp of a new revolution:
tope’ sequence conferring susceptibility to RA that is present the use of human cells as versatile therapeutic engines.’
in certain HLA class II alleles. A group of patients with early Studies in experimental arthritis models have demon-
RA were treated for six months orally with dnaJP1. Immuno- strated the efficacy of tolerized dendritic cells (tolDC) in
logical analysis showed a change from pro-inflammatory to preventing and ameliorating disease activity by the induction
regulatory T-cell function. In fact, dnaJP1-induced T-cell pro- of Tregs [63]. Two recent proof-of-concept trials in RA patients
duction of IL-4 and IL-10 increased, whereas dnaJP1-induced confirmed the feasibility and safety of antigen-pulsed tolDC.
T-cell proliferation and production of IL-2, IFN-y and tumour A first study was done in Brisbane (Australia) with autologous
necrosis factor-a decreased. The total number of dnaJP1-specific DCs modified with a NF-«B inhibitor and loaded with four
cells did not change over time, whereas expression of Foxp3 by citrullinated peptide antigens, in a single-centre, open-labelled,
CD4*CD25(bright) cells increased, suggesting that the treat- first-in-human phase I/II trial. The tolDC were injected intra-
ment affected regulatory T-cell function. Thus, rather than dermally at two progressive dose levels to 18 patients with
clonal deletion, the observed change in immune reactivity to citrullinated peptide-specific autoimmunity. At one month
dnaJP1 seemed the outcome of treatment-induced emergence after treatment, a reduction in effector T cells and an increased
of T cells with a different functional phenotype [58]. ratio of regulatory to effector T cells were observed [64].
A subsequent phase I/II trial of oral dnaJP1 showed again No adverse effects were seen. A second study was done in
a reduction in the percentage of T cells producing TNF-a and Newcastle (UK) using synovial fluid-loaded autologous DC,
a corresponding trend towards an increased percentage of T differentiated from CD14* monocytes and that were tolerized