y every time step (i.e. at every time step an individual could and electronic supplementary material, figure 1. Including
only turn up to y towards the expected direction). individual heterogeneity into simulation models led to looser

aggregations, smaller groups and a shift from aligned to
swarming behaviour (see examples in figure 1). The three
parameters had different effects on collective movement. In
particular, heterogeneity in alignment radius and speed had

(b) Parameterization and simulations of individual

heteroge eity less impact on collective behaviours (electronic supplementary
We used two different combinations of r; and 1, values that material, figure 1) than individual heterogeneity in sociability.
produce either parallel directed movement or swarming as This may be partly explained by the fact that we only con-
group behaviours in the absence of individual heterogeneity sidered heterogeneity in speed and in alignment radius in
(electronic supplementary material, table 3). Parallel directed their initial values, thus its effects washed away completely.
movement consists of collective movement with a high level Therefore, we focus our discussion here on the heterogeneity
of alignment and cohesion (proximity). By contrast, swarming in sociability (figure 2).
behaviour is characterized by poor alignment but cohesion As shown in many empirical systems (including several
among individuals ([42]; figure 1). To explore individual het- discussed earlier), we found that heterogeneous individuals
erogeneity in behavioural rules, we allowed three of the manage to behave collectively with one another. The very
parameters to vary across individuals: the radius of orientation presence of social interactions tempers the effects of non-con-
1, the speed s and the degree of sociability a (electronic sup- formity (consistent with some empirical/theory results
plementary material, table 3). These parameters represent, above, e.g. [39,61]). However, when heterogeneous groups
broadly, three distinct aspects of movement and individual contained individuals whose behaviours were too extreme
interaction, namely: s—movement, r;-—detection range and (i.e. after a heterogeneity coefficient (c.v.(a)) of 0.4 in our