making is the question of whether the influence of specific multiple types of group decisions, and that the process of
individuals is consistent over multiple group decisions, or how influence yields collective outcomes may differ across con-

across time. Consistency can be measured at the individual-to- texts. For example, in the case of movement, groups may need


to make consensus decisions about both the timing (e.g. when the electronic supplementary material, table S1). For example, | 5 |

to leave a foraging patch) and direction (e.g. which patch to in a study of spotted hyenas [52], the individual at the front
move to next) of travel. It is possible to study individual-to- of a progression prior to a reunion between subgroups was a
individual and individual-to-group influence in relation to identified as ‘leading’ (individual-to-group influence), and s
both timing and directional decisions (or a combination of the study assessed how often each individual in the population a
both), and in fact theoretical predictions about the level of took this role (a proxy for total influence). Spatial position can 2-
decision-sharing expected in these two contexts differ [51]. also be used to study influence at an individual-to-individual S
Thus, influence should, in most cases, not be thought of as a level, for example, by assessing which individuals are ahead =
catch-all concept, but should be defined in relation to the of which other individuals in group progressions [53]. A disad- =
specific process under study. vantage of this approach is its assumption that a front position “S
Assumptions about what defines influence will necessarily implies influence, which is not necessarily the case, and behav- ©
have consequences for the conclusions drawn about the ioural dynamics other than leadership may drive patterns of — -5
structure of leadership in animal groups, and thus should be within-group spatial positioning [54]. =
chosen with care and explicitly described. In the following sec- =
tion, we elaborate on some of the methods that have been used -
for inferring influence across a range of different systems with (ii) Initiating and being followed S
different dynamics, at both the individual-to-individual and A second commonly employed method for inferring influence S
individual-to-group levels. We focus specifically on the case at an individual-to-group level is to identify individuals that w