
5. The relationship between numerosity and fact that the Weber and square root laws extend past
A the boundaries shows that there is considerable overlap in the
texture density mechanisms. Similarly, other experiments have shown that
Although there exists good evidence that numerosity is per- the estimation range extends into the subitizing range, revealed
ceived independently of texture, common sense suggests under conditions of divided attention, which selectively impair
that the two must be related in some way. If we continue to subitizing [54-56]. Piazza et al. [57] also report evidence for a
increase the number of items within a given area, we will strong overlap between subitizing and estimation.
reach a point where we can no longer resolve the items, We believe that the transition from numerosity to texture
and they will merge into what is commonly termed texture. occurs when the individual items are no longer discernable
When does this occur? What determines whether an array as separate items, but blend into an amorphous mosaic. In
of items turns into an amorphous texture? other words, the items become ‘crowded’. Crowding is a
In a previous review on this topic [37], we suggested that well-studied visual phenomenon, referring to the fact that
there exist three different regimes in number analysis stimuli, typically letters, that are easily discerned when dis-
(figure 4). First there is the well-described subitizing range, played individually, can become indiscriminable when
where judgements are fast and errorless, which extends up embedded in other letters [58]. It is possible that a similar pro-
to about four items [50]. Then there is a range where items cess governs the transition from numerosity to density. If
are discernable as unique from each other, and we can estimate crowding-like mechanisms are at play, we can make two
their quantity, rapidly but with error (often referred to as the clear predictions: the transition between numerosity should
‘approximate number system’). Finally, the density becomes depend on eccentricity, occurring at lower densities in the per-
too great to segment the items from each other, and the stimuli iphery; and it should depend on centre-to-centre spacing
become textures. Initial evidence for this idea came from rather than edge-to-edge separation, or total coverage of
simple measurements of Weber fractions—the minimal detect- dots. Both these predictions were verified by recent data
able change in numerosity, normalized by point of subjective [59]: texture mechanisms came into play far earlier in the per-
equality—over a large range of numerosities and densities iphery than with central vision, and the effects did not depend