further support with respect to lesion studies and the sugges- bilaterally. Multiplication seemed to rely instead on the left
tion is put forward that the solution size of the problem HIPS but involved the right VIPS, insofar as the right VIPS dis-
should be considered, as an important factor in lateralization. ruption predicted problem size effects. The contrast between

ipsilateral and contralateral stimulation at different SOAs high-
lighted the temporal course for the involvement of the different

(c) Reversible inactivation: transcranial magnetic sites: a left HIPS disruption appeared late in the 300 ms SOA,

stimulation and direct cortical electrostimulation and it was preceded by an involvement of the right VIPS
Two methods of reversible inactivation are considered here: from 150 to 250 ms SOAs. Thus efficiency in simple multipli-
TMS and DCE. These methods complement neuroimaging cation seems to be partly dependent on the VIPS in the right
with causality. The fact that an fMRI study shows activation hemisphere, considered to be critical for motion representation
in a certain area does not imply that the area is crucial for a and automatization. Similar to Salillas et al. [72] the results
specific function. By contrast, this conclusion may be safely suggested that more occipital areas may be involved in the
reached if the temporary disruption of a brain area by automatic solution search and that verbal and visuo-spatial
means of TMS or DCE impacts accuracy and/or reaction processes interact in exact calculation.
times in a task. Findings with DCE also suggest a role of the right hemi-
In TMS an electrical current produces a magnetic field sphere in simple calculation. Yu et al. [73] found that
that passes through the scalp and skull, inducing an electrical inhibition of the right parietal lobe impaired performance
field sufficient to alter neuronal activity in the brain. TMS on simple subtraction. The right parietal involvement in sub-
is employed to test whether or not a region in which traction was believed to be related to quantity processing
change in neural activity is associated with a given task is rather than to verbal numerical processing. However, Della
also necessary for the performance of the task. Puppa et al. [74] further demonstrated with this technique a
The purpose of intraoperative DCE is to gather precise right hemisphere involvement also in multiplication (positive