also necessary for the performance of the task. Puppa et al. [74] further demonstrated with this technique a
The purpose of intraoperative DCE is to gather precise right hemisphere involvement also in multiplication (positive
information about the brain localization of functions that sites, namely those inducing errors in at least two-thirds of
can be spared while removing pathological tissues [66]. Elec- the trials, were reported for the angular gyrus, the supramar-
trodes are applied directly to the cortex. Because the brain ginal gyrus, the interparietal sulcus and the superior parietal
lacks pain receptors, the patient can be alert during the oper- lobule) and addition (in the supramarginal gyrus).
ation in order to interact with the operating team. Errors in Semenza et al. [75] very recently analysed DCE data in
tasks sustained by inhibited areas reveal the location of cer- patients undergoing operations in either the left or the right
tain functions. These areas will be spared in the operation, parietal lobe. A first important finding was that positive
when possible. sites for both addition and multiplication were found after
Using TMS, a few studies investigated whether the right inhibition of each side (table 1). Crucially, no individual site
hemisphere is related to specific calculation abilities (see was found positive for both addition and multiplication.
[67] for a review). While Gobel et al. [68] found no effect of The fact that positive sites were operation-specific thus
repetitive TMS (rTMS) on the participants’ performance in ruled out the possibility that errors came from a generalized
additions, other studies found a bilateral involvement of the depletion of processing resources. For the first time an error
HIPS in exact arithmetic. analysis was performed. Commission (substitution) errors
Andres et al. [69], using f{MRI-guided rTMS, found that were found to be of a different nature after DCE in the two
disruption to both the left and right HIPS leads to impaired hemispheres, unveiling the function of the hemisphere con-
multiplication. Interestingly, frequent errors of the retrieval tralateral to the inhibition. Multiplication errors, when
type (table results other than the target) suggested that dis- inhibition was on the right, mostly consisted in replacing

ruption of the HIPS impaired retrieval processes. No the correct solution with another table solution involving


Table 1. Positive sites for each patient assessed in [75]. A site was considered positive if the patient committed at least two out of three errors under DCE