environment and measures of cultural complexity, this study One of the most interesting findings of this study is that
showed that the extent to which environmental factors are cor- innovation may increase diversity under certain circum-
related with cultural complexity relies heavily on subsistence stances or innovation may have little or no effect on
strategy. However, many studies focus on hunter-gatherer cultural diversity. A similar relationship between innovation
populations alone (e.g. [21—23,41]). and cultural complexity has been shown in previous studies

To assess the nature of a relationship between environ- notably by Kandler & Laland [45]. This work showed that
mental fluctuation, innovation rate and diversity, it may be independent innovations, that is, innovation that does not
possible to use longstanding data on cultural complexity and build on previous knowledge, does in general lead to an
a variety of environmental parameters from Torrence [42]. increase in cultural diversity. However, conformist learning
This dataset has been used to examine the ‘risk hypothesis’, tended to weaken this relationship. The model presented
which suggests that the cultural complexity of a population here shows that effective forms of learning such as conformist
should be proportional to the environmental risk experienced transmission may, in fact, lead to lower rates of innovation in
by that population. Torrence used a population’s latitude as a a population. The results of the ‘heterozygosity’ model pre-
proxy for a direct measure of this ‘riskiness’. Subsequently, sented above are consistent with this previous work
Collard et al. (e.g. [21]) suggested that above ground pro- showing that effective learning decreases the need for a
ductivity among other measures may be better pool of cultural diversity to buffer against a changing
approximations of risk, and aspects of the dataset have been environment and that this effect changes the relationship

critiqued by Henrich [43]. However, latitude is closely related between cultural diversity and innovation.


(a) P,=0.1 (b) P= 0.6
0.7
