in each time step a fraction r of the population of cultural between empirical and theoretical patterns was based on the = -S&
variants is removed and new variants are subsequently absolute difference of the theoretical and observed frequen- &
added (in this way the framework can accommodate cies of the k variant types present at the beginning of the
temporal changes in population size). While the removal simulation. Additionally, we required the same number of
process is random, the replacement process is defined by initially present variant types to have gone extinct at
the assumed process of social learning. In detail, a variant the end of the phase. The general scheme of the proposed
type i, i=1,...,k is chosen to be added to the population generative inference framework is illustrated in figure 3.
according to the probability Applying this analysis to all six phases, we concluded that
Ni); Ni()—uj
pi(t) = 0, if N= it + Pireg lk NOE uo 1 <0 (i) frequency-dependent selection does not describe the
Nese + Dizeq lk Mi ou ui ijja —p) otherwise, cultural dataset from the earliest farming population
in Central Europe better than unbiased transmission.
(2.1) In fact, the credible intervals of all six marginal
where N(t) denotes the population size at time t, N,(t) is posterior distributions for Dfeq contained the value 0,
the number of variants of type i, u is the total number of which means that unbiased transmission cannot be
variants removed at this time step, u; is the number of excluded as a potential explanation of the data by
variants removed of type i, Dfreq controls the strength of fre- this analysis (see figure 4a,b for an example);
quency-dependent selection and k is the number of variant (ii) frequency-dependent selection and unbiased _trans-
types present at time f. Importantly, choosing bfreq = 0 in mission may not be the best model to explain the
equation (2.1) models unbiased transmission, whereas observed data as the achieved tolerance levels (i.e. the
Direq > 0 describes the selective advantage for high-frequency ‘distance’, between empirical and observed patterns)
variant types and Dfreq > 0 for low-frequency types. Further, of the ABC analysis were relatively large.
the variable w defines the probability with which a novel
variant type not previously seen in the population is intro- Point (ii) suggests that the social learning hypotheses considered
duced into the system. A similar probability as in equation are not consistent with the data, which requires a re-evaluation of