At face value, this may seem to support the idea that
daughters-in-law win reproductive competition with their
mothers-in-law in patrilocal households ([36], but see [3]).


However, as this society falls on a relatively low end of the due to later trade-offs given different levels of embodied El

fertility spectrum, it is likely to show relatively little interge- capital or shifting norms acquired through, or reflected in,
nerational overlap and therefore relatively little potential educational institutions. Finally, the fact that historical shifts a
for conflict. This suggests the need for alternative expla- towards lower fertility and higher maternal education do s
nations of the regional pattern and casts some doubt on not completely account for the earlier ALBs in more recent a
interpretations of similar patterns in the broader literature cohorts suggests that reproductive stopping is changing for 2
[3,36,37,65]. The fact that educational and fertility differences other reasons. Further data on various kinds of investments Ss
do not account for the regional differences between the matri- in children, the long-term effects of education for adult =
lineal and patrilineal areas’ ALBs points to other reasons women and the kinds of social models present in schools =
for the observed patterns in ALB. Furthermore, if easier trans- would help address the role of education in shifting norms ‘S
mission of market-based norms accounted for the difference, and perceived reproductive trade-offs. s
we would expect earlier ALB among the more market- It is worth reiterating that HBE and CET perspectives = -5
integrated matrilineal villages than the patrilineal ones. One often do not make divergent predictions insofar as CET proe =
possibility is that ageing women expect reproductive conflict poses mechanisms of transmission whereby equilibria =
in patrilocal areas and moderate their reproductive timing predicted by HBE models are reached. However, in contexts -
accordingly, but this account would require a rather inflexible of change, CET perspectives have the potential to offer 2
mechanism that cannot handle the mismatch to the modern additional insights regarding the dynamics of change. For S
low fertility context. Future research should collect more example, during these periods of change, it may be possible w
direct data on intergenerational reproductive overlap, house- to examine humans’ reproductive decision-making rules and