broad spatial extent or popularity of provisioning as well as fertilization [24]. This compartmentalized approach risks
nutrient cycling and transport within and across ecosystems ignoring general insights for wildlife disease in anthropo-
[8,12]. Moreover, the effects of large-scale resource provision- genically enriched landscapes, and it limits collaboration
ing, especially aquatic eutrophication, can persist long after across disciplines. All of these types of supplementation are
anthropogenic resource inputs have ceased [13]. extremely widespread. For example, residents of the USA
Resource supplementation by humans can drive disease spent more than $3 billion on food for wildlife in 2001 [25].
dynamics in wildlife by altering the traits and densities of Agricultural fertilization impacts ecosystems globally, as
hosts and parasites (figure 1; [6,14]). The combined effects of approximately 190 million metric tons of fertilizer are applied
these simultaneous changes can be difficult to predict a priori, worldwide each year [26]. Similarly, more than 90% of rivers
in part because they may occur along a continuum of time exhibit elevated nitrogen and phosphorus levels in most
scales. For example, provisioning can cause relatively rapid regions of the USA, and the annual economic costs of eutro-
changes in animal foraging behaviour and movement patterns phication in the USA exceed $2 billion [27]. Here, we leverage
that can lead to host aggregation and thus increased contact the fact that resource supplementation is a near ubiquitous
rates as a result of resource provisioning [10]. After these aspect of the Anthropocene to identify the unifying and
resources are consumed, they can drive substantial increases unique effects of supplementation on disease across eco-
or decreases in parasite production and virulence through logical contexts. Thus, we define resource supplementation
physiological responses of hosts and parasites [15-17]. At broadly to include direct human provisioning of food items
longer time scales, supplementation can increase host survival as well as enrichment of limiting nutrient resources (i.e. agri-
and fecundity, boosting host population sizes [18], which could cultural fertilization and aquatic nutrient input). We note that
also promote host contacts and parasite transmission [19,20]. resource supplementation can increase non-infectious disease
Supplementation can also alter wildlife disease dynamics in humans and wildlife. For example, eutrophication can
by affecting the traits or densities of species that may indirectly cause hypoxia among aquatic organisms, increases in CO
influence outbreaks, such as prey, predators and competitors of and nutrient inputs can increase pollen production and there-
hosts (figure 1). For example, phosphorus enrichment increases fore human allergies, and elevated nutrients in drinking
the quality of algae for aquatic consumers (a trait). When water can decrease oxygen carrying capacity of haemoglobin