formation is the role of the cortical flow [73,75]. In the wild- linked to the postulated existence of a characteristic length


scale [2]. In particular, most authors define a Turing pattern as a zones are strongly coupled through cytosolic transport. The | 10 |

pattern with a characteristic length scale [100]. In our flux off the membrane in a detachment zone is of the same
discussion so far, such a length scale has only been mentioned order of magnitude as the flux onto the membrane in the a
in passing as a phenomenon observed in specific E. coli attachment zone. Hence, the fraction of cytosolic proteins s
mutants, and in budding yeast mutants as a transient pattern remains approximately constant during the redistribution a
of multiple Cdc42 clusters. Indeed, the theoretical analysis of process (figure 7a). As we have discussed in section 2, attach- 2
all quantitative models [30,33,34] discussed so far reveals ment and detachment zones are regulated by the membrane S
that the existence of such a length scale is in no way kinetics of the specific biochemical model, while transport =
generic—despite the fact that all patterns emerge from a depends on cytosolic kinetics and diffusion. Canalized trans- =
lateral instability induced by diffusive coupling, i.e. a Turing fer leads to the emergence of a characteristic separation ‘=
instability. On the contrary, it appears that the phenomenon distance between attachment and detachment zones which ©
biologists refer to as ‘the winner takes all’ and physicists as depends in a non-trivial manner on the system parameters = -5
‘coarsening’ is the generic case; cf. [27,30,101,102]. Hence, (figure 7a). The particular parameter dependence of such =
the generic pattern is a polarized state with a single concen- characteristic redistribution length scales remains an open =
tration maximum and a single concentration minimum for question for the Min system, and even more so for general reac- -
each chemical component irrespective of the system size. tion diffusion systems. However, it was demonstrated that the 2
In fact, the question of length-scale selection is a highly total mass flux due to canalized transfer can be inferred from S
non-trivial problem, and can only be addressed in general the linear stability analysis for the Min model [30]. The flux w
by numerical simulations. Linear stability analysis (as intro- coupling (cytosolic exchange) between detachment and =
duced by Turing) only predicts the length scale of the attachment zones is weak if a cytosolic reservoir is filled and 5
(transient) pattern that initially forms from the uniform depleted during detachment- and attachment-dominant ©