detachment : recruitment ‘ nucleotide exchange

Figure 4. Mutual recruitment of Cdc42 and Bem1—GEF complexes is the core mechanism of Cdc42 polarization. (a) The interaction network of Cdc42, Bem1 and
GEF (Cdc24) can conceptually be simplified to two key processes: Bem1—GEF complexes on the membrane recruit Cdc42-GDP from the cytosol, which is followed by
immediate nucleotide exchange (conversion to Cdc42-GTP). Reversely, Cdc42-GTP recruits Bem1 to the membrane, where Bem1 immediately recruits Cdc24 to form
Bem1—GEF complexes. (b) A local accumulation of Cdc42-GTP thereby acts as recruitment template for Bem1—GEF complexes (1), creating an attachment zone for
Bem1—GEF, while detachment of Bem1—GEF dominates in zones of low Cdc42-GTP density (2). Bem1—GEF complexes then accumulate in their attachment zone.
This accumulation acts as a recruitment template for Cdc42 (2), creating co-polarized attachment zones of Cdc42 and Bem1—GEF (1’) and (2’). (c) Taken together,
the mutual recruitment processes establish and maintain Cdc42 polarization.

accumulation of MinD and MinE on the membrane through figure 5). Rebinding of MinE to the MinD-—MinE attachment
recruitment. The recruitment of MinD shifts the attach- zone at the tip of the polar zone is favoured owing to the
ment—detachment balance towards further attachment. By faster recruitment of MinE and the fact that MinD is tempor-
contrast, the recruitment of MinE shifts this balance towards arily inactive after detachment. This leads to the progressive
detachment. The structure of a polar zone is such that MinE is conversion of attachment zones into detachment zones
accumulated in the form of MinDE complexes at its rim owing to the shifting balance in favour of MinDE complexes
(sometimes called the ‘E-ring’), whereas MinD accumulates (detachment) (figure 5).
at its tip (see figure 5 panels (2) and (4)). Below we will discuss that the inactivation of MinD upon
A theoretical analysis of Min protein dynamics revealed MinE-stimulated hydrolysis is essential for the establishment
that self-organized Min protein pattern formation is based of intrinsic length scales and for the dependence of the
on two requirements [30]: the total copy number of MinD pattern-forming process on cell geometry.
must exceed that of MinE, and the recruitment rate of MinE Biochemically the Min system of E. coli and the Cdc42
must be larger than that of MinD. The first condition ensures system of S. cerevisiae, are closely related: both MinD and
that all of the MinE can be bound as MinDE complexes on Cdc42 are NTPases regulated by enzymatic proteins such as
the membrane (MinE-MinD detachment zone, panels (2) NTPase-activating proteins (NAPs), even though the regu-