by MinD, forming MinDE complexes. MinE triggers the a plethora of fascinating observations has been made: (i) In
ATPase activity of MinD initiating the detachment of both filamentous cells, in which cell division is inhibited, the
MinD-ADP and MinE. Subsequently, MinD-ADP undergoes pole-to-pole oscillation develops additional wave nodes
nucleotide exchange in the cytosol such that its ability to showing that the Min oscillation is a standing wave [14].
bind to the membrane is restored (figure 2a). (ii) Experiments with nearly spherical cells show that, in the
The joint action of MinD and MinE gives rise to oscil- majority of cases, the pattern-forming process is able to
latory dynamics: MinD accumulates at one cell pole, detect the long axis, even though it is much less pronounced
detaches due to the action of MinE, diffuses and accumulates than in wild-type, rod-shaped cells [40,41]. (iii) In mutant
at the opposite pole. The oscillation period is about 1 min, cells that were grown in nanofabricated chambers of various
and during that time almost the entire mass of MinD and shapes, a broad range of patterns has been observed [26,27].
MinE is redistributed through the cytosol from one end of In rectangular cells, the oscillation can align with the long
the cell to the other and back. axis or the short axis for the same dimensions of the cell.
This example nicely illustrates the fact that pattern- This shows that patterns with distinct symmetries are stable
forming protein dynamics are in essence protein redistribution under the same conditions: Min patterns are multistable.

processes [12,30]. In other words, the emergent phenom-
enon is directed transport, and not localized production

and degradation (depletion), which serve as the basis of (b) The Cdc42 system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
activator—inhibitor (or activator—depletion) models. Budding yeast (S. cerevisiae) cells are spherical and divide
It was suggested that binding of MinE to the membrane is asymmetrically by growing a daughter cell from a localized
essential for self-organized pattern formation [23,24,35]. bud. The GTPase Cdc42 spatially coordinates bud formation
However, these results were critically debated in the litera- and growth via its downstream effectors. To that end, Cdce42
ture [36], and more recent experiments [37] have explicitly must accumulate within a restricted region of the plasma
