mutants, and in budding yeast mutants as a transient pattern remains approximately constant during the redistribution a
of multiple Cdc42 clusters. Indeed, the theoretical analysis of process (figure 7a). As we have discussed in section 2, attach- 2
all quantitative models [30,33,34] discussed so far reveals ment and detachment zones are regulated by the membrane S
that the existence of such a length scale is in no way kinetics of the specific biochemical model, while transport =
generic—despite the fact that all patterns emerge from a depends on cytosolic kinetics and diffusion. Canalized trans- =
lateral instability induced by diffusive coupling, i.e. a Turing fer leads to the emergence of a characteristic separation ‘=
instability. On the contrary, it appears that the phenomenon distance between attachment and detachment zones which ©
biologists refer to as ‘the winner takes all’ and physicists as depends in a non-trivial manner on the system parameters = -5
‘coarsening’ is the generic case; cf. [27,30,101,102]. Hence, (figure 7a). The particular parameter dependence of such =
the generic pattern is a polarized state with a single concen- characteristic redistribution length scales remains an open =
tration maximum and a single concentration minimum for question for the Min system, and even more so for general reac- -
each chemical component irrespective of the system size. tion diffusion systems. However, it was demonstrated that the 2
In fact, the question of length-scale selection is a highly total mass flux due to canalized transfer can be inferred from S
non-trivial problem, and can only be addressed in general the linear stability analysis for the Min model [30]. The flux w
by numerical simulations. Linear stability analysis (as intro- coupling (cytosolic exchange) between detachment and =
duced by Turing) only predicts the length scale of the attachment zones is weak if a cytosolic reservoir is filled and 5
(transient) pattern that initially forms from the uniform depleted during detachment- and attachment-dominant ©
state (figure 1a). This should not be confused with the phases, respectively (figure 7b). It seems intuitive that a redis-
length scale of the final pattern. For instance, coarsening tribution process through a ‘well-mixed’ cytosolic reservoir
dynamics (the winner takes all) are generic examples of does not dictate an intrinsic length scale for pattern-forming
dynamics where the length scale collapses to the system dynamics. Moreover, the analysis of quantitative models
size (or an intermediate length scale) regardless of the (such as the Min model) does provide strong evidence that
initially selected length scale [103]. A case where the length length-scale selection in reaction—diffusion systems essentially
scale is predicted correctly by the linear stability analysis relates to the length scales of directed (canalized) transport.
occurs when the growth of the pattern saturates at small However, the precise details underlying the emergence of