is, thus, both phylogenetically and ontogenetically, grounded Thus, summarizing, on the one hand, as we have already
in our bodily experiences. pointed out, Embodied Simulation seems to play a crucial
The embodiment of concepts, in phylogenetic and onto- role in understanding language. The intentionality, the about-
genetic sense (see the distinction between the two meanings ness of our linguistic representations, is—in the first place—
of embodiment proposed before), points to the fact that the an exapted property of the action models instantiated by
prerequisites for concepts formation are grounded in our sen- the cortical motor system ([17], p. 34; see also [52] for a dis-
sorimotor system. Schematic categorizations, provided by cussion). On the other, language allows us—and in this we
simulation routines, are the necessary condition for the devel- are unique among all living species—to fix and relive specific
opment of any other form of referential relation. If we want to aspects of our bodily experience. Through language we can
explain how we went from Embodied Simulation, and its crystallize and relive fragments of experiences that are not
iconic categorical schematizations, to concrete and abstract topical, that is to say are not our experiences now, but
concepts, we also need to take into account the role of become a model (an icon) for understanding ourselves and
language. In fact, the ability to conceptualize also relies on others. It is exactly this twist we are interested in and it is
the acquisition of language, as already anticipated. More exactly this twist that we would like to disentangle. In this
specifically, in our proposal, conceptualization also relies on perspective, probably, we would not have had concepts with-
the ability to give names to categories. This holds true both out language. But this does not diminish the importance of
for concrete and for abstract concepts. While the mechanism their bodily foundation in our ontogeny and in our phylo-
is probably the same, what changes is the nature of the enti- geny. And this holds true, in our account, both for abstract
ties to be categorized and named. We can categorize and and concrete concepts. However, as already anticipated, it
name actions, giving rise to concepts such as ‘running’ or is important to acknowledge that, while they both have a
‘grasping’; we can categorize and name artefacts (knife, bodily foundation, abstract and concrete concepts also
ball), sets of artefacts (furniture, vehicle), social and intellec- differ in significant ways. In the case of concrete concepts,
tual practices (democracy, fantasy or philosophy) and so their bodily grounding is more evident, not only in terms
forth. In all of these cases, even for the most concrete con- of the iconic root of their referential relation but also with
cepts, a certain degree of abstraction is needed. This process regard to their direct recall of the mechanism of simulation.