
knowledge that we recruit in several different situations. We exemplary case to the present situation. Argumentation


based on the paradeigma does not make a claim for universal- us to elaborate its abstract representation. At the same time, | 8 |

ity. The orator is not bound to offer an exhaustive number of the degree of involvement of sensorimotor information
cases justifying a universally valid conclusion. One case is varies in these different kinds of concepts. While some con- a
sufficient, provided that it is particularly suitable, and pre- cepts are deeply grounded in the sensorimotor system (e.g. s
cisely exemplary, in relation to the context in which the ‘grasping’ or ‘knife’), other might have a more evident, or a
argumentative discourse takes place. Furthermore, paradig- even exclusively, linguistic nature ‘philosophy’. In the latter = 2
matic reasoning presents some of the features of inductive case, both the context of acquisition of the concept and the 5
inferences. In fact, as inductive inferences, it is characterized entities to be categorized are grounded in linguistic practice.
(i) by always proceeding from what is ‘best known and first These considerations force us to further reflecton language. = =
for us’ (Aristotle, Analytica posteriora 11.19 [77]), or from Language has a twofold role in concept formation and rep- “3
what is for us most immediate and most easily accessible, resentation. On the one hand, we do have a form of linguistic ‘©
being part of our baggage of experiences and knowledge knowledge, encoded in terms of lexical entries, that is con- — -5
and (ii) by identifying similarities between particular cases sidered to be purely linguistic. Lexical entries, however, are =
(for a deeper discussion, see [52]). far from being full-fledged concepts. As we recently wrote =
Both these features also characterize Embodied Simulation. [70], they are just cues that prompt us to activate our back- -
One condition for the simulation mechanism being enacted is ground, encyclopaedic knowledge [71] hence, activating 2
sharing a baggage of (sensorimotor) experiences and knowl- concepts. Encyclopaedic knowledge, on the other hand, is S
edge. Embodied simulation is enacted starting from what for grounded in both linguistic and non-linguistic information. w
us is ‘first,’ ie. what for us is known and easily accessible in Thus, language acts both as a clue for the access to ourencyclo- =
terms of motor potentialities and experiences. Sharing a reper- paedic knowledge and as a source of information for our ©