
concrete and abstract concepts. In this sense, abstract con- recruit this knowledge when we remember our past experi-

cepts are always embodied in the non-trivial sense that the ences, when we imagine ourselves engaged in fictive
possession of a sensorimotor system with the characteristics experiences (as we do during the experience of artworks a
of our own sensorimotor system is the necessary condition such as paintings, movies, poetry and novels or when we 3 5S
for concepts formation, both for the abstract and the concrete are caught in a daydream), when we plan our future actions
ones. However, to claim this role for the sensorimotor system (as we do, for example, when we plan to use a tool or, as pro-
and the mechanism of Embodied Simulation does not equal fessional athletes do, when we review ‘in our minds’ the
to underestimate the role of language in the acquisition movements and actions we are going to perform), when we
of concepts. In our proposal, Embodied Simulation is a interact with other people and we need to understand their = 2.
necessary but not sufficient condition for the formation of a actions, emotions and experiences, and even during the com- “2
full-fledged conceptual system. To be more precise, we pro- prehension of linguistic descriptions of facts, actions and
pose that Embodied Simulation, with its iconic character, is events. In all these different contexts, our bodily knowledge, ~
a prerequisite—both phylogenetically and ontogenetically— activated through the mechanism of Embodied Simulation, is =
for the acquisition of indexical and symbolic relations. After recruited by different cognitive tasks. In each of them, the =
the acquisition of symbolic referential relations and language, cognitive puzzle we need to solve is resolved also through -
this species-specific modality of representation and epistemic the recall of our background, skeletonized, bodily knowl- 2
access to the world significantly contributes to the formation edge. This process can be described as an abductive S
of abstract and concrete concepts. Language, in this view, is a inference (probably an automatic abduction; see [41,69] on w
necessary condition, too, for concept formation, although its the role of Embodied Simulation in automatic abductions): —
role and degree of involvement might differ depending on the cognitive puzzle (i.e. the facts, stated in the premise of ©
the kind of concepts or on the context of use. the abductive inference, we need to make sense of) is ©
It is worth noting that, in the light of our proposal, the resolved through a form of diagrammatic reasoning that is = &
embodiment of abstract and concrete concepts can be inter- based on the recall of a simulation routine. This knowledge