symbolic placeholders, linguistic representations may be par- metaphors—such as understanding morality in terms of clean-
ticularly effective at resolving the problem of generalization. liness [111], power in terms of verticality [112,113] and &
Recall the studies by Lupyan and co-workers [54-57] demon- similarity in terms of closeness [114,115]—has also been found. — S
strating that verbal cues are more effective at eliciting general Viewing language as a neuroenhancement predicts that the = &
representations than modality-specific cues. Second, linguistic cognitive scaffolding due to conceptual metaphor will be
representations are associated with external symbols and are somewhat circumscribed, because it treats metaphor as just
thus able to leverage the social character of language. Philoso- one of the ways in which language can augment cognition.
phers of language emphasize the degree to which the This is supported by developmental psycholinguistic research
linguistic function of labels depends in part on their ability to indicating that abstract concepts are part of the vocabularies of
track referents by means of socially determined causal links very young children but metaphors are not [36,116,117].
[99,100]. Abstract concepts would seem to be particularly Indeed, children’s comprehension of metaphor appears to
good candidates for this sort of reliance on external support. remain poor until they reach 8-10 years of age [118]. Further-
Third, given the fact that abstract concepts often involve com- more, there are also groups of people, such as high functioning
plex situations and relational properties, it is far from clear individuals with an autism spectrum disorder, that acquire
that linguistic representations are eliminable. Although abstract concepts despite experiencing pronounced difficulties
researchers have found some surprising evidence that embo- with metaphors [119].
died and grounded representations are activated with abstract According to the proposal under consideration, our use of
concepts during certain tasks, this does not demonstrate that lin- metaphoric simulations should be context-sensitive and task-
guistic representations are uninvolved. Furthermore, reviews of specific. Some available neural evidence supports this predic-
functional brain imaging research implicate language-related tion. A number of studies have found that metaphors and
areas of the cortex in the processing of abstract words [59,60]. abstract concepts elicit different patterns of activation [120—
Finally, there is reason to think that linguistic representations 123]. In an event-related potential (ERP) study [124], partici-
may be needed for concepts that directly involve language use pants made upward or downward movements with marbles
(e.g. ASSERT, CAJOLE and PROMISE). as they read words that had literal (ascend and descend) or
Few would deny that language provides a means to gain metaphorical (inspire and defeat) vertical associations. Con-