form of ‘waiting impulsivity’ that has been associated with overlapping, but distinct, traits are related to variations of — 2
reduced D2/3 receptors and DA transporter (DAT) function DA release in different dorsal or ventral striatal regions.
in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens [22]. This behav- Segregation of Pavlovian approach responses into those
iour is generally exacerbated by drugs such as amphetamine rats that approach the stimuli predicting food (sign trackers) 2.
or methylphenidate that enhance DA levels in the nucleus and those that approach the food location itself (goal trackers) “2
accumbens and are blocked by lesions of the shell region. has appeared to provide a better match to impulsivity, assign ‘©
In vitro studies of DA function have indicated enhanced DA trackers exhibit greater motor impulsive behaviour (on a -s
release in the shell but reductions in the core in ‘high impul- timing schedule) [25]. However, sign trackers also exhibit =
sive’ animals [22]. By contrast, another measure of reduced temporal discounting of reward, unlike high impul- =
impulsivity, impulsive choice in the delayed discounting sive rats [25]. The pattern of behaviour of sign trackers is -
paradigm, has been also associated with reductions of DA consistent with the finding in such rats of greater phasic DA 2
release in the core region [22]. This is also consistent with activity in the nucleus accumbens core region [25]. Therefore, S
the fact that the high impulsive rats also exhibit steeper the equation of impulsivity with incentive motivation per se, w
delayed discounting, i.e. more impulsive choice. Importantly, as suggested by the proposed link between extraversion
amphetamine generally reduces impulsive choice (an effect and impulsivity, does not appear to be correct. This is more ©
that appears to depend on both DA and 5-HT receptor mech- generally consistent with our view that impulsivity and  S
anisms) and so presumably this form of impulsivity is novelty/sensation seeking can also be dissociated, for ©
reduced by elevating mesolimbic DA. In rats exhibiting example, in the context of vulnerability to addiction [26].
high levels of impulsive premature responding, stimulants A further complication for the simple equation of DA
such as methylphenidate and cocaine have also been found with reward sensitivity, and hence extraversion, is that stria-
to alleviate impulsivity while also upregulating D2/3 recep- tal DA also has important functions in yet another, motor,
tors in the striatum [14,22]. The opposite effect is shown in form of impulsivity as gauged by individual differences in
normal (or low) impulsive rats, indicating that the effects of stop signal reaction time performance [22]. This behaviour
the drugs (and therefore of DA itself) are ‘baseline-depen- has been shown to be mediated by the dorsal rather than
dent’ ([14], see review [22]). This concept of ‘baseline’- (or the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens) [22,27], thus repre-