sensation seeking ss significant
plasticity in changing situations versus compulsivity in the shadow
effortful control (mental endurance) in the shadow
abilities: modality-specific abilities (vision, hearing, etc.) in the shadow
artistic abilities 4 in the shadow
spatial abilities f in the shadow

mathematical abilities dj in the shadow
\ musical abilities F in the shadow
\ athletic abilities in the shadow

Figure 1. Differential psychology studies a number of consistent individual differences based on socio-cultural (yellow area) and biological factors (green area). The
fact that biological characteristics interact with socio-cultural ones and emerge as components of personality does not devalue the need for biological sciences to
study them independently of cultural factors (as, for example, in the case of age and sex). Social perception of individuals (i.e. how people see other people,
depicted here as a magnifying glass), as represented by the Five Factor Model (FFM), highlights only some components of personality (spotlights) and downplays
many others (labelled here ‘in the shadow’) as listed in the right column of the figure. The resulting list of personality traits is therefore biased toward individual
differences prioritized by societies. This list might not be suitable for taxonomies of biologically-based traits related to dynamics in behavioural regulation
(temperament) even though it might adequately represent a socio-cultural structure of interpersonal perception.

pharmacology indeed showed that neurochemical imbalances used the term ‘personality’ for biologically-based individual
influence the variability in behavioural regulation. differences, which we also define here as temperamental
Thus, the concept of temperament refers to neurochemi- traits. Let us briefly mention several distinct features
cally based individual differences in the regulation of that differentiate these concepts of ‘temperament’ and
formal dynamical aspects of behaviour. These differences ‘personality’.
were studied for over 100 years in developmental, clinical, First, in line with its original concept, temperament is