We and others have highlighted the role of epigenetic modifi- undergoing in vitro fertilization also indicates a significant =
cations in the context of intergenerational transmission of effect of psychosocial stress [213,214] and physiological stress 5
maternal effects and fetal programming [11,13,195]. The telo- vulnerability [215] on reduced oocyte competence and failure 3
mere biology system is under tight epigenetic regulation. to conceive. Although alterations in oocyte cytoplasm have =
Chromatin modifications are key regulators of mammalian tel- not yet been studied in relation to the development of the telo- = =
omeres. Sub-telomeric regions are enriched in epigenetic marks mere biology system, it is plausible that the adverse lifelong 2
that are characteristic of heterochromatin, and the abrogation of sequelae of maternal adversity could affect oocyte quality and‘
master epigenetic regulators such as histone methyltransferases mitochondrial function across all stages of oocyte develop- z
and DNA methyltransferases correlate with loss of TL control ment and maturation, contributing to the process of fetal =
(reviewed in [196]). Specifically, the regulation of TL is depen- programming of the telomere biology system. S

A model integrating telomere biology and mitochondrial
function has been suggested by several studies. In fact, 4
a telomere p53—mitochondrion axis may account for many
processes that have been implicated in pathophysiological — w

dent on the level of methylation in sub-telomeric regions of
the histones H3 and H4. The methylation of these histones
decreases access to telomere sequences and thus reduces
telomerase activity [196]. Hence, proteins such as DNA methyl-

transferase (that play a role in regulation of methylation) have ageing [22]. According to this model, telomere shortening is ~
an impact on TL. Also, DNA methyltransferase is a key candi- the driving force that generates mitochondrial dysfunction <&
. via activation of the transcription factor p53. Then, mitochon- — S
