sample a spectrum of conformational changes, during the common gating mechanism might be shared among members
transport cycle. How are those different conformers compatible of the superfamily, and is well captured by the softest mode
with the same fold and signature fluctuation profile? favoured by the common fold.

To gain a mechanistic understanding of the conformational Figure 5a provides an overview of the ‘dynamics landscape’
spectrum accessible to LeuT superfamily members, we per- of the LeuT-fold transporters. Therein, all 100+ monomer/
formed a principal component analysis (PCA) of the protomer structures are projected onto the subspace spanned
ensemble of PDB structures listed in electronic supplementary by ANM1, ANM2 and ANM3, allowing visualization of the
material, table $1. Optimal superposition of 104 monomers and different classes of proteins based on their collective motions.
protomers in this set onto the LeuT OFS structure (PDB: 2A65; Notably, proteins belonging to the same functional family
reference structure) permitted us to identify a core region (elec- tend to cluster, highlighting the relevance of soft modes to
tronic supplementary material, figure SIC) and RMSDs from transporter function.
the mean that varied from approximately 1.5 A for LeuT mono- Another interesting fact emerges by focusing on the projec-
mers/protomers to approximately 5 A for vSGLT, BetP and tion of structures onto the first two ANM modes, shown in
Mbp! (electronic supplementary material, figure S5A). Com- figure 5b. In this representation, a clear-cut separation can be
parison of the results from PCA with ANM predictions drawn between trimeric transporters (BetP and CaiT) and
(electronic supplementary material, figure S5B) showed that monomeric/dimeric transporters, while secondary cuts
the softest ANM mode (ANM1) computed for the reference (dashed lines) further subdivide both groups into OF and IF
structure (the closest to the average structure of the ensemble conformations. This clear separation may be an effect of the

in terms of RMSD) yields a cumulative overlap of 0.55 with structural constraints imposed by the trimeric organization to
the principal components 2 and 6 (PC2 and PC6). the monomers of BetP and CaiT transporters, which share a

similar quaternary structure (figure 1c). The trimers, indeed,
