ideas about individual-specificity, in which phenomena of (e.g. slap, bite) into the more abstract categories used in
different kind are conceptually blended although they differ the literature (e.g. social aggression) and eliminating redun-
in perceptibility by humans and thus require different methods dancies across studies. By hypothesizing occurrence of
of investigation. These factors limit the comprehensiveness individual-specific variations in each behavioural category,
of taxonomizations. working constructs of individual-specificity are generated (e.g.

aggressiveness to conspecifics). Their meaning and content
(ii) Strategy-based selection principles are defined by the specific behaviours and situations from
Strategy-based principles, by contrast, provide explicitly which they were derived and that can be used to select
formulated frameworks and strategies on which resear- variables for empirical studies.
chers can base their selections without already specifying any The working constructs are used to empirically explore
particular ones and thus without compelling researchers to if in the given population or species individual-specific
focus on the qualities of the individual-specific variants to variations do in fact occur that are then taxonomized using
be studied. This eliminates the necessity to rely unintention- various reduction approaches (§3e). By building on the
ally on preconceived ideas, thus reducing risks for biases. established knowledge base about a species’ behavioural
Therefore, strategy-based principles enable comprehensive repertoire rather than on previous descriptions of individual
selections. However, such principles can be formulated only variations or on researchers’ or nominators’ pertinent ideas,
for physical phenomena because their spatial properties the BR,BS-Approach enables comprehensive taxonomizations,
allow researchers to determine the universe of phenomena which are needed for valid comparisons. Applications in var-
from which to sample. Pertinent approaches are therefore ious primate species yielded evidence for individual-specific
called physical system approaches (previously called ‘manifest variations across these species’ behavioural repertoires,
system approaches’ [4] and ‘bottom-up approaches’ [3,37]). among them variations not previously identified with other
Various kinds of physical system approaches exist that are approaches (e.g. with top-down approaches from the Five

each targeted at one kind of phenomenon (figure 2). Factor Model [27,28,32,42]).