conformational variability observed for LeuT of deformation. While members of the same family (see the
superfamily members colour code) tend to cluster together, we note that within each

family a certain degree of segregation between IF (upward
triangle) and outward-facing (OF; downward triangle) states
takes place, for instance in the case of BetP (in orange) and
Mhp!1 (in purple), consistent with the analogous separation

Figure 3a demonstrates that LeuT-fold monomers or protomers
belonging to different functional families exhibit shared
dynamics regardless of their conformational (OFS/IFS) or
multimerization (monomer/dimer/trimer) states. Yet, they
stabilize the OFS, IFS or intermediate/occluded state and for LeuT (blue). Such observation points to the fact that a
sample a spectrum of conformational changes, during the common gating mechanism might be shared among members
transport cycle. How are those different conformers compatible of the superfamily, and is well captured by the softest mode
with the same fold and signature fluctuation profile? favoured by the common fold.

To gain a mechanistic understanding of the conformational Figure 5a provides an overview of the ‘dynamics landscape’
spectrum accessible to LeuT superfamily members, we per- of the LeuT-fold transporters. Therein, all 100+ monomer/
formed a principal component analysis (PCA) of the protomer structures are projected onto the subspace spanned
ensemble of PDB structures listed in electronic supplementary by ANM1, ANM2 and ANM3, allowing visualization of the
material, table $1. Optimal superposition of 104 monomers and different classes of proteins based on their collective motions.
protomers in this set onto the LeuT OFS structure (PDB: 2A65; Notably, proteins belonging to the same functional family
reference structure) permitted us to identify a core region (elec- tend to cluster, highlighting the relevance of soft modes to
tronic supplementary material, figure SIC) and RMSDs from transporter function.