integrated systems, etc. As described in the Introduction to lar consistency for positive emotionality. Studies showed that — 5
this theme issue [113], it has been 100 years since the first most neutral verbal materials were perceived more positively 2
objections to using FA for psychological taxonomies by individuals with a high energetic capacity and more nega- i
emerged, and criticism of FA models (such as FFM) has con- tively by individuals with high neuroticism [49,109,122,123]. R
tinued [114,115]. When everything is interdependent in These findings led to suggestions that perhaps the two
biological processes, a correlation-based analysis collapses main dimensions of psychological taxonomies should not
the complexity of measurements of these systems into a be Kant’s ‘Energy-Emotionality’ dimensions, but instead = &
very limited number of dimensions which are not very should be dimensions based on emotional valence. By the = S
useful for practical considerations. end of the twentieth century, a number of Approach/With- © 3

The requirement of independence of scales is very con- drawal (A/W) models appeared in temperament research,
venient for mathematical purposes and is important in which unified Positive Affect with the Approach/Extraver-
psychometric practice except for the fact that it does not sion (energetic) trait, and Negative Affect with the
really exist in natural systems. For example, the independence Withdrawal/Neuroticism (emotionality) trait (for example,
of the dimensions in the PNA model appears to be due, not to [60,99-102,120]). In these models, the ‘Positive Affect/
independence of the underlying regulatory systems, but rather Approach’ dimension included such different characteristics
to the fact that these interconnected systems act differently in as consistent optimism, approach behaviour, investigative
response to positive or negative events (as discussed below). activities (novelty seeking), physical endurance and endur-

The priorities of psychometrists and differential psychologists, ance in social—verbal activities; the dimension of ‘Negative
therefore, differ greatly, and psychometrists or statisticians are Affect/Withdrawal’ included characteristics of social with-
the last people to be consulted when developing taxonomies of drawal, insecurity, avoidance of uncertainty, low sociability
biologically-based traits. Unfortunately the opposing priorities and preferences for individual assignments.

of psychometricists and differential psychologists are often The unification of the PNA with the two main dimensions