
Figure 2. ATP-induced conformational changes in NBD and SBD. (a) Overlay of the secondary structure representation of the ATP-bound NBD of E. coli DnaK (PDB ID
4B90; lobe |, greencyan; lobe II, deep teal) and a homology model of the NBD of £. coli DnaK on the structure of bovine Hsc70 (PDB ID 1HPM [45]; lobe |, yellow;
lobe II, light green). (b) Surface representation of the NBD of £. coli Dnak in the ADP- (left) and ATP- (right) bound conformations. Coloured are lobe | (green cyan)
and lobe Il (deep teal), residues interacting in the ATP-bound open conformation with SBD (yellow) and SBD (dark red), and the interdomain linker (magenta)
inserted into the lower crevice of the NBD. (c) Conformational changes in the catalytic centre accompanying ATP hydrolysis. Upper panel, ATP and ATP-interacting
residues in the structure of F. coli DnaK in the ATP-bound open conformation (PDB ID 4B9Q). Lower panel, ADP + inorganic phosphate and interacting residues in
bovine Hsc70 (PCB ID 1HPM). Middle panel, overlay of upper and lower panel. Dashed lines indicate polar contacts. (d) ATP-induced conformational changes in the
SBD. Overlay of the SBD of E. coli DnaK in the ATP-bound open conformation (PDB ID 4890; SBD, dark red; SBD, orange, truncated for space reasons) with the
structure of the isolated SBD of £. coli DnaK (PDB ID 1DKX; [34]; SBD, dark green; SBDa,, lime green). Indicated are the substrate (light green) enclosing loops (left
panel) and residues lining the central hydrophobic substrate-binding pocket (right panel).

resulting in simultaneous reduction of basal and stimulated with the fact that the isolated NBD (DnaK(2-385)) has an
ATPase rates. Thus, this comparison suggests that the SBD ATPase rate similar to the basal rate of full-length wild-type
represses the ATPase activity until substrate binding releases Dnak. However, the NBD including the interdomain linker

this repression. Such a hypothesis seems to be inconsistent (DnaK(2-393)) has a greatly elevated ATPase rate [31,52],


(@ 1005

KH
2 P143A + eH
3 E ¥. +t
zz 104 Y P143G Ley