actions across the predicted network. The predicted networks networks. Also, the degree correlation is near zero, indicat-
are shown together with the literature-based network in ing that there is little substructure in the largest connected
figure 5a. These visualizations unveil that the networks exhibit component. There are no communities that are only con-
very different topologies. We next compared the topological nected to other communities via gateway nodes, resulting
properties of the literature network and the predicted networks in a comparably low diameter and the largest connected com-
by quantifying some standard measures (table 1). The degree ponent of all predicted networks. The mean rank of the
distribution (figure 5b) of the literature network shows an degree of the core triad is higher than for ARACNE, reflecting

approximately linear decrease in the log—log-plot. Contrary a less central place of these TFs in the network.
to this, the predicted networks show a marked deviation Finally, the network predicted by the clr_mi algorithm
from a linear degree distribution for the highest degrees. The shows the most pronounced modular structure with groups
linear degree distribution of the literature network up to the of nodes that have high connectivity among themselves but
highest degrees is reflected by the fact that the most important low connectivity with outside nodes. The modular structure
nodes, Nanog and Pou5df1, are involved in 50% of all inter- is reflected in the highest modularity index of all predicted
actions. Their targets typically have no interactions among networks as well as the highest transitivity and degree corre-

themselves, leading to a star-like structure centered on lation. Though the core triad is located in a community of


Table 1. Quantification of topological properties of the predicted networks. The networks predicted by the algorithms clr_mi, partial correlation in the pls
implementation and ARACNE with 0.50 as cut-off parameters are compared with the literature network. Mean rank OSN (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog): denotes the mean
degree rank of the core triad, with low values indicating high degrees; % in largest component: the fraction of vertices contained in the largest connected =

component; no connected components: the number of connected components; modularity edge betweenness: the modularity of the graph according to the S
edge betweenness community measure; modularity fastgreedy: the modularity of the graph according to the fastgreedy community measure; diameter, the a