
hence a feasible pattern of trips which represent the solution. on changing the independent variables need to be compared


Figure 3. The London ABM MATSim model at different times and different scales. The dots represent moving travellers; for the animations see https://vimeo.com/
119354430.

Figure 4. Scaling movement models up to the national level. (a) MSOA zoning system; (b) employment density; and (c) population density.

with the existing state when this kind of ‘what if’ prediction is To illustrate the model, we show the zoning system for
made with these models to inform the planning process. England and Wales in figure 4a and the distribution of
We have built a variety of models based on equation (4.5) employment and population in figure 4b,c. These distri-
for different sectors in the UK space economy which we have butions are quite similar and emphasize the fact that at this
defined from the population census geography called ‘middle scale, we see the density of cities and related settlements
layer super output areas’ (MSOAs). These zones contain on which is a proxy for the density of movement. The model
average around 7000 persons and there are 7201 in the is web-based and can be run from any location (see http://
model area which currently is England and Wales. The www.quant.casa.ucl.ac.uk). In figure 5a, we show observed
model is to be extended to Scotland shortly when the relevant population again, in 5b predicted population, and in 5c the
data becomes available. What we show here is the journey to population differences as well as the observed accessibility
work model which links employment at origins O;(t) to desti- to population from the employment sector as figure 5d.
nations which enable us to predict the working population This measure of accessibility and there are many such
resident at those places as Dj(f). We calibrate the model by measures which can be computed from these kinds of
simulating how close the predicted flows Fit ) are to the models, is based on potential values from the gravitational
observed Fi (obs) (t) estimating the individual or group specific model [20], defined in this case as
parameters “ab(t) and B*(t) so that the average benefits and ob (1) WCE) —BE(cE(