1 10 20 30 #1 10 20 30 1 10 20 30
numerosity numerosity numerosity

Figure 7. Examples of tuning curves indicating the presence of ‘multi-peak’ responses in the models and in actual recordings—data from [7]. (a,b) Our conservative
post hoc analysis shows that 4.56% of units in the minimal model exhibit unambiguous tuning to multiple numbers (a), and 3.44% in the extended model (b).
(0) The same analysis performed on the single-cell recordings from [7] reveals 10.60% of multi-peak number neurons. The mean firing rates/activities across the
sample period (red dots) were smoothed by a Gaussian kernel and interpolated (solid curves). Error bars show the standard error of the mean.

numerosity (figure 2e), suggesting that the log-normal model our random-matrix theory: they appear even in the absence
more often captures an average firing rate profile over many of noise, as a counterpart at the unit level of the oscillatory be-
neurons with the same preferred numerosity. To test this pre- haviour previously reported at the population level. The
diction and quantify the proportion of ‘multi-peak’ tuning existence of multi-peak neurons is an original prediction of
curves in real data, we conducted a post hoc analysis on all neur- our model, and the fact that actual number neurons conform
ons previously identified as number selective in the sample to this prediction thus provides strong support for the
period of [7] (see electronic supplementary material, Note random-matrix theory.
$3). Given a neuron with preferred numerosity n, the general Our second quantitative prediction concerns the funda-
logic of this analysis was to grant another peak at numerosity mental assumption of our theory, that of a random band
n' whenever the firing rate of the cell did not differ significantly matrix which implements a successor function. Because this
in response to n and n', but was significantly reduced for matrix links number codes together, it is legitimate to ask
numerosities between n and n’. whether its dimension n and bandwidth w would impact on
We discovered that 10.6% of number neurons exhibit number sense. In fact, a long-standing conjecture [41] in
unambiguous tuning to multiple numbers, against 4.6% units random-matrix theory states that for random band matrices
in the minimal model and 3.4% in the extended model (see whose underlying space is of dimension 1, a critical bandwidth
examples in figure 7). While the proportion of multi-peak neur- w* exists that marks a sharp phase transition between two
ons is smaller in the model than in data, increasing the noise in regimes: a strongly disordered, ‘insulator’ regime for bands