direct responses to a 5-year-old actor’s audio-taped questions implications of talking about death, may explain why many
about death. This methodological difference could account parents avoid the topic until circumstances demand it [10,24].
for the contrasting findings, or, as the authors acknowledged, The content of parents’ explanations is also revealing. These
it may be that Hunter & Smith’s [9] null findings could be can be broadly divided into two categories: scientific facts and
attributed to their relatively small sample (N = 37) and explanations, and religious, spiritual or emotional reassurance
restricted range of scores. Ultimately, the role of parental and comfort. Reassurance responses are explanations aimed at
input about death should be explored with methodologies providing solace to the child, and can include religious,
that capture what parents actually say to their children. emotional, biological or spiritual information (e.g. continued
Explorations of parents’ communication about death and existence after life, I won’t die until I’m much older, or it’s
dying highlight two factors that influence death concept alright to feel sad [24,45]). Facts and explanations generally
development in Western populations. These are: (1) the age relate to the biological processes involved in death, although
at which children are believed to be capable of understanding they can also relate to rites and rituals following death [24,45].
death, and therefore should be taught, and (2) the type of Providing children with the biological facts is obviously
information parents provide their children. Given that what important for children’s developing concepts of death.
parents discuss with their children is influenced by the age Gutiérrez et al. [45] explored the content of 60 American
of the child, this factor will be discussed first. parents’ self-reported conversations with their 3- to 6-year-
Early researchers examining the development of death con- old children as part of a wider study. In response to their
cepts argued that children were incapable of understanding or children’s questions about death, the majority of parents
even thinking about death before the age of 7, and that a (79.2%) reported that they had incorporated facts and expla-
mature death concept was not fully developed until 10 years nations relating to the biological nature of death. However,

of age [25,0]. These estimates were informed by Piagetian other survey studies suggest that not all parents provide


these sorts of explanations. For example, Renaud et al. [27] was given sleeping pills and then she died. My father said it 4 |