their minds? being loved. But not being at all, not existing? This was just 2
There is, of course, one level of defence we might expect to too elusive a concept. S
have been there from the beginning. This is a natural fear of I look at it this way. It’s a general principle of evolution w
death. Geoffrey Miller has written: ‘There is no way to escape that any behaviour that can be learned by an individual
the hardwired fears and reactions that motivate humans to through extended practice can be adopted by selection and = &
avoid death. Suffocate me, and I'll struggle. Shoot me, and become innate. So, for example, people can readily learn to S
I'll scream. The brain stem and amygdala will always do fear not being fed, by experiencing famine a few times. S
their job of struggling to preserve one’s life at any cost’ ([17]). They can learn to fear not being loved, by experiencing aban-
Emest Becker has famously said ‘the fear of death haunts the donment. And so on. What's more, they can learn such fears
human animal like nothing else’ ([18, p. xvii]). If, as these vicariously, by sharing what others have been through. In
authors imply, the fear of death is an evolutionarily ancient these cases, selection could quite well have followed in learn-
animal fear, then presumably it would always have provided ing’s path. But death is different. No one could learn to fear
an important last-ditch barrier to human suicide. In fact, its death through practice: ‘Hey, I’ve just visited the other side.
existence ought to mean that the thought ‘I can kill myself’ I’m not going there again!’ Nor will there be anyone else
must usually be something of an empty boast. whose experience they could draw on.
I have to say I am sceptical. And not just because people This said, we should not assume that human suicide was
do, in fact, kill themselves, sometimes almost casually. I think destined to remain unopposed. If nature was unable to arrange
there is actually precious little other evidence that humans things so that people instinctively feared dying by their own
have a naturally evolved fear of death. I don’t disagree, of hands, then perhaps human culture could step in to arrange
course, with Miller that humans have hardwired fears that it. Or, as a completely different strategy, perhaps the threat of
motivate them to avoid situations that could put them at suicide could be answered by developing a new-found appe-
risk of dying—pain, anoxia and so on. They do instinctively tite for staying alive. I’ll consider in a moment how culture
recoil from pain and thus will certainly do what they can to may indeed have weighed in to supplement biology.

avoid a painful death. That’s why, for example, many