row is made true now by the sun’s rising tomorrow. If the us: such events can make the objects of achievement desires
sun does not rise tomorrow, then the sun will not rise tomorrow true while we have those desires, which is intrinsically
is true now. One proposition or the other concerning the good for us, or false, which is bad for us [12]. Because the ful-
sun’s rising is true now even though neither truth-maker fillment of these desires involves future events, we might say
has occurred yet. Note that no mysterious sort of reverse cau- that we are harmed or benefitted retroactively. However, the
sation is involved in a proposition’s being made true by states account does not imply that posthumous events ‘change’
of affairs holding at times before or after the proposition is our welfare level after we are dead. Nor does it imply that
asserted. Note also that subtle differences in the propositions we incur harm or benefit while dead. If, by virtue of a post-
we assert can affect what makes them true. For example, the humous event, we have a fulfilled desire that contributes to
sun is rising is made true by something occurring now, namely our welfare, then we accrued that boost before the posthu-
the sun’s rising. It is very different from the proposition that mous event occurred. We accrue it while we are getting
the sun will rise tomorrow. what we want. According to Joyce Jenkins [13], my account
With these facts about desires and propositions in place, of posthumous harm, defended elsewhere [14], seems com-
we can state a plausible view concerning desire fulfillment: mitted to the claims that posthumous events may ‘change’
the fulfillment of a desire consists in two things coming our welfare level for the worse, and that we incur the reversal
together at the same time: our having the desire and its posthumously. However, my view is actually inconsistent
object’s being true. That is, if the object of a particular with these claims.
desire is the proposition P, one fulfils that desire at time t if We can also explain why it might be in our interests for
and only if, at t, one has the desire for P and P is true. others to do certain things after we have died, and why
To be sure, other accounts are possible [1]. One that is others might want to do such things on our behalf: their
likely to come to mind is the view that I fulfil the desire for actions can benefit us retroactively. If I set out to have a
P at time t if and only if, at t, I have the desire for P and novel published, and do everything necessary to achieve
P’s truth-maker occurs. (This may be the view of Silverstein my goal except send in the manuscript, my untimely death
[11], who asserts that if I want eventually to be married, need not prevent me from achieving the task I have set
my desire is not fulfilled until the marriage takes place.) myself, for you could send in the manuscript for me.