filled retroactively, and (b) fulfilling (thwarting) some desires if the concept of well-being applies, such as trees or species
retroactively is intrinsically good (bad) for us. The two claims of animals (as opposed to animals themselves), it is not
are related in this way: if we accept (b) we must accept (a), clear whether it is appropriate to speak of standing; and sub-
but while it is possible to accept (a) and reject (b), I suspect jects to whom the concept of well-being no longer applies
the main source of suspicion concerning the possibility of seem to have lost standing.
posthumous harm is the denial of (a). If that suspicion is Suppose we press ahead anyway, and attempt to defend
correct, then accepting (a) clears the way to accepting (b), the idea that the dead are subject to being wronged but not to
together with the conclusion that what happens after we being harmed. Having denied that wronging the dead
die may affect our interests. amounts to some sort of setback or threat to their interests,
With this reasoning in place, we can reach a verdict about presumably we will need to supply an alternative account.
the moral standing of the dead. People may be wronged by But in what else might wronging the dead consist?
things we do after they have died because such actions may We might consider the idea that we are obligated to fulfil
harm them, and, other things being equal, it is wrong to some desires that dead persons once had, despite the fact that
harm someone. the dead are no longer subject to harm or benefit, and that

wronging them simply consists in failing to fulfil these
desires. They have standing, we might add, in virtue of the
fact that (unlike stones) they were once able to want things.

6. Harmlessly wronging the dead However, a further difficulty now arises. We saw earlier
I have defended the claim that the dead have moral standing that one of the main reasons for doubting the possibility of
on the grounds that they have prudential interests. However, posthumous harm is the contention that events occurring
nothing said so far implies that the dead have moral standing after a subject’s death cannot help fulfil that subject’s desires.
only if they have prudential interests. Hence readers who If that claim is true then we are powerless to fulfil any desires
remain skeptical about the interests of the dead might be of the dead, and cannot possibly be duty-bound to do so.