[45]. The placement of a child’s head within the Magdalenian the existence of primary burials which were subsequently dis-
levels, however, presumably reflects a deliberate treatment/ turbed by taphonomic factors cannot be excluded. The
deposition of the human remains, as the postcranial bones funerary character of the material seems to be indicated by
were absent. An AMS date of 13159+93calBP (OxA- the use of red ochre and the various personal ornaments
16932) places the skull chronologically in the Late Palaeo- within the find layer.
lithic/ Azilian. Two further burials have been found in an With regard to the objects associated with the burials—
Azilian context. Rochereil I, an older male, was found in a mostly personal ornaments—the grave from La Madeleine
‘hyper flexed’ position lying on its right side and lacking and the remains from Aven des Iboussiéres are comparable
any obvious grave goods. Only red ochre was visible in the to those of Arene Candide and Grotta dei Fanciulli from
area of the head. The second burial has been described as a Italy. The mode of deposition of Aven des Iboussiéres
cremation but further details are unfortunately not available could also be comparable to the remains of Grotta Polesini.
([26], 121). The dating of Rochereil II is insecure, as no crema- Although both sites lack a precise date for the human
tion for the European Late Palaeolithic is otherwise known; it remains, there are similarities concerning the fact that the
is probably of Mesolithic age. Rochereil I, although similarly human remains were found without anatomical connection
undated could belong to the Azilian. were stained with red ochre. Additionally, the occurrence of
In 1928, the partially incomplete skeleton of a juvenile, a a number of personal ornaments, such as perforated red
13-15-year-old probable female, was excavationed in Roc de deer canines, fish vertebrae and shells, in both sites might
Cave (Saint-Cirg-Madelon, Lot). Given the lack of information indicate a similar funerary behaviour at the very end of the
on the excavation, little is known about the position of the body Pleistocene or the transition to the Holocene.

or the existence of a grave pit. Several perforated deer teeth

may belong to a necklace worn by the deceased. A direct

AMS date of 13 107 + 166 cal BP (GifA-95048) once again indi- 3. Early Mesolithic (Preboreal and early Boreal )