ence is a fact of life. Any attempt to measure this volatility
experimentally is all but impossible, and so, the goal of
explaining it scientifically is postponed or, more often, utterly
ignored.

Another reason why the hard question is seldom asked is
related to Richard Power’s point about our lack of access to
the properties of the medium of conscious experience.

Think of the ‘miracle’ of vision. For millennia, reflective How in the world did this case of dactylic hexameter come to
people from the pre-Socratic philosophers and Aristotle to me?
the dawn of modern science with Descartes in the seven- We often know what we are trying to do, and why, because it
teenth century were quite baffled by the familiar fact that is implicated by the context of the contents. When we hear a
they could see things. Did something emanate from the eyes request to imagine a blue capital letter A against a black back-
to the front surfaces of objects? What entered the eye, and ground, and accede, we are not surprised that we can do it,
where did it go once it was inside? Over the past few centu- nor that we did it then, but we have no insight at all into
ries, our understanding of how vision is accomplished has how the ‘backstage’ neural machinery accomplished. this.
grown magnificently, and one of the striking facts about And when our minds are wandering, the succession of
what we have learned is that until scientists told us, we had thoughts, images, melodies, pangs and thrills that occur to
no idea at all, no ‘privileged access’, to the complicated activi- us arise from we know not where. How we do it, what
ties of the optic nerve, the occipital cortex and even the goes on in us to produce such a thought, is something
activities of our eyeballs. Saccades were a surprising discov- quite inaccessible to us. We can, however, reason plausibly
ery to most people, as was the dramatically reduced acuity about what must somehow be happening, beneath our
of perifoveal resolution, the absence of peripheral colour notice. When we do this, we are not observing; we are theo-
vision, the multiple ‘retinotopic maps’ in the cortex and rizing. For instance, have you ever eaten a live frog? Have you