In fact, there are two possibilities to consider. First, dis- Shea’s paper is ambitious and important. It deserves
tinguish between core and total neural correlates of a given serious study. Here, however, I raise a series of critical
conscious state (NCCs) [70]. A total NCC is the physical issues which cast doubt on the contention that a science of
state unconditionally sufficient for being in a given conscious consciousness that proceeds according to his framework
state. A core NCC is the part of this total realizer responsible will eventually solve the methodological puzzle.
for the state being the specific conscious state it is—crudely, First, Shea’s proposal supposes that, at the outset of
its content. As just argued, results like Frassle et al.’s are inquiry, we have evidence sufficient to provide us with
quite consistent with frontal areas forming part of the core samples that everyone will agree are, respectively, mostly
NCC [71]. This is because they are quite consistent with conscious and mostly not conscious. It is undoubtedly true
content-specific activation in frontal areas being necessary that some measures such as explicit verbal report of aware-
for awareness. However, even if frontal areas exhibit no con- ness do provide fairly uncontroversial positive evidence of
tent-specific frontal activity at all once activity attributable to consciousness. However, such superficial consensus masks
executive upshots of awareness is factored out, frontal areas the fact that even very early on in our inquiry we face pro-
may still form part of the total NCC. This is because non- found and longstanding controversies concerning how to
differential frontal activity may be a necessary condition of measure consciousness. Furthermore, it is not unreasonable
any non-frontal core NCC constituting a total NCC (cf. [72, to think that our initial choice of evidence will make a dra-

p. 164] and also [9, p. 15] citing [73]). That even such an matic difference to our initial sample—a difference dramatic
extreme finding is consistent with the access hypothesis high- enough to change the number of clusters eventually found
lights the limits of rivalry-based paradigms in overcoming by our causal modelling. For example, consider Marcel’s
the methodological puzzle (see also [74,75]). claim that: ‘There is really only one criterion for phenomenal

experience. This is a person’s report ... that they are or were

conscious in one or another way...’ [79, p. 131] (see also [80,