behaviour), in fact, are measures of A-consciousness only. If unclear and ‘blurry’ representations of letters. When partici- “2
there are no behaviours which could be taken as evidence pants focus on particular memory contents, this content is ‘©
for P-conscious states (and not only A-consciousness), and further processed and as a consequence made more accessible = -s
if P- and A-consciousness can be dissociated, the view that and at the same time more clearly experienced. As in the =
there may be an experience of all conversations without everyday life example, there is no argument why the case =
any report or evidence hereof seems to be a view that must represent an empirical dissociation between access -
makes an empirical science of consciousness highly difficult. and experience rather than a parallel shift from weak to stron- 2
On the contrary, if one believes that P-consciousness follows ger representations. This idea is close to the interpretation S
A-consciousness in the example, then at least under some suggested by Kouider et al. [23] that the letters outside focal w
conditions measures of A-consciousness can be a guide to attention are partially accessed. ve
P-consciousness. If one accepts reports (or introspections) One can, of course, have different intuitions about both ©
about the contents of subjective experience as evidence that explanations. And even though the author of this paper ©
what was reported was, in fact, also the content of experience, finds the latter explanation plausible, this does not of course =
it seems natural to think that there was no (clear) subjective principally rule out that the first explanation is possible. How-
experience of the exact content of the conversations in the ever, the current task was to evaluate the argument that
example above. phenomenal overflow is the better candidate for inference to
Regardless of how one may attempt to resolve this debate, the best explanation—and given that both interpretations are
it appears difficult to argue that the example above is an congruent with results from the Sperling experiment, this
objective empirical argument in favour of the first interpret- experiment does not seem to work as evidence for overflow.

ation mentioned. Even though it may be consistent with the
first interpretation, it is just as consistent with the alternative
interpretation. The core difficulty is that evidence for

P-conscious states (reports or other behavioural indications) 4. Colour dive rsity