

the lack of report of P-conscious states at least in others is, in so that all 12 letters are experienced phenomenally, yet only a | 3 |

principle, not direct evidence for the lack of P-consciousness subdivision (those that are attended) is accessed. The argu-
per se. This argument could be taken as a defence of the view ment for this interpretation seems to be that the experience a
that one may, in fact, be experiencing all conversations in of ‘having seen the initial letters’ that most participants’ s
the room. report must be based on the experience of each separate a
This latter ‘defence’, however, does not come without letter that, however, cannot be reported. 2.
cost. That is, the view would bring all measures of However, just as in the case of the everyday life example 5
P-consciousness into doubt as they all (be they verbal reports, above, there is an intuitively plausible alternative interpret- =
button presses or other kinds of voluntary or involuntary ation: participants experienced, and only had access to, =
behaviour), in fact, are measures of A-consciousness only. If unclear and ‘blurry’ representations of letters. When partici- “2
there are no behaviours which could be taken as evidence pants focus on particular memory contents, this content is ‘©
for P-conscious states (and not only A-consciousness), and further processed and as a consequence made more accessible = -s
if P- and A-consciousness can be dissociated, the view that and at the same time more clearly experienced. As in the =
there may be an experience of all conversations without everyday life example, there is no argument why the case =
any report or evidence hereof seems to be a view that must represent an empirical dissociation between access -
makes an empirical science of consciousness highly difficult. and experience rather than a parallel shift from weak to stron- 2
On the contrary, if one believes that P-consciousness follows ger representations. This idea is close to the interpretation S
A-consciousness in the example, then at least under some suggested by Kouider et al. [23] that the letters outside focal w
conditions measures of A-consciousness can be a guide to attention are partially accessed. ve
P-consciousness. If one accepts reports (or introspections) One can, of course, have different intuitions about both ©
about the contents of subjective experience as evidence that explanations. And even though the author of this paper ©
what was reported was, in fact, also the content of experience, finds the latter explanation plausible, this does not of course =