many AI systems, in fact, do have these properties (either in approaching danger [93], not unlike what we do when a
rudimentary or more advanced forms). Moreover, if conscious large object is looming. After the fact, when recurrent proces-
experience is better explained by recurrent interactions or sing (or information integration) has kicked in, the fly may
information integration (view 2 above), we may already have experience the fear associated with it (flies show fear con-
created conscious machines [86]. ditioning [94]). But the experience will never transcend
Do such considerations falsify current theories of con- beyond ‘something nasty that moved’. In our minds, how-
sciousness? It seems entirely plausible that other animals ever, we will come to recognize that the looming object was
than us have conscious sensations, fitting with the propensity a pick-up truck, running off the road, steered by a bearded
of science to remove man from its pedestal, acknowledging man. We heard the engine roaring, felt the gush of wind
that we are just animals too. On the other hand, it feels unsa- when the car almost hit us. And in doing so we exclude
tisfactory to equate consciousness as we experience it to millions of other possible percepts. So although our reflex
whatever happens in the mind of a fly. IIT as well as recurrent may be similar to that of the fly, the sensory experience
processing theories of consciousness offer some potential sol- that follows is infinitely richer. In fact, what the fly experi-
utions to this problem. Both theories would argue that while ences may be very similar to what we experience in a
the conscious/unconscious dichotomy should be present in masking experiment,‘ or when we choose ‘not seen’ on a per-
many animals (or even devices), the ‘what it is like’s’ may ceptual awareness scale. What we call unconscious may be
differ vastly between them. Of the senses, vision and olfac- the richest experience a fly or worm ever experiences.
tion are most important in the fly, and it has been shown Should we then conclude that flies do not have conscious-
that there is multisensory integration between the two. The ness after all? That is missing the point. The notion of conscious
visual system of the fly is dominated by neurons and path- versus unconscious is still useful—or even necessary—to grasp
ways that detect motion (even second order and illusory what goes on in the mind of a fly. The unconscious to conscious
motion), not surprising given its behaviour. Second are path- transition occurs in flies just like it does in humans, in the sense
ways related to colour vision. Much less prominent are that it is a radical—and probably nonlinear—phase transition,
systems that would enable the fly to discriminate between supported by the transition between feedforward to recurrent
all sorts of objects and shapes [87]. So what ‘is it like’ to see processing. Accordingly, the amount of integrated information