differ vastly between them. Of the senses, vision and olfac- the richest experience a fly or worm ever experiences.
tion are most important in the fly, and it has been shown Should we then conclude that flies do not have conscious-
that there is multisensory integration between the two. The ness after all? That is missing the point. The notion of conscious
visual system of the fly is dominated by neurons and path- versus unconscious is still useful—or even necessary—to grasp
ways that detect motion (even second order and illusory what goes on in the mind of a fly. The unconscious to conscious
motion), not surprising given its behaviour. Second are path- transition occurs in flies just like it does in humans, in the sense
ways related to colour vision. Much less prominent are that it is a radical—and probably nonlinear—phase transition,
systems that would enable the fly to discriminate between supported by the transition between feedforward to recurrent
all sorts of objects and shapes [87]. So what ‘is it like’ to see processing. Accordingly, the amount of integrated information
like a fly? Obviously, conscious content can only be about (PHI) suddenly increases strongly, which is accompanied by a
information that the neural machinery detects. Recurrent pro- sudden transition from processing ‘in the dark’ to conscious
cessing theory (RPT) would argue that a fly sees an amalgam phenomenology. Therefore, to the fly, being awake will
of motion and colour, quite ‘objectless’ in fact. Objectless ‘feel’ clearly different from being anesthetized. Hence,
vision is not unlike what patients with damage to visual there should be a clear and rather dichotomous distinc-
object areas see, like the famous D.F., studied extensively tion between the two states from the perspective of the
by Goodale & Milner, who cannot identify objects and fly, just as there is this distinction in our phenomenology
shapes, yet is seeing features like colour and motion [88]. when we go from awake to asleep. But conscious experi-
Apperceptive agnosia patients have similar sensations of ence in the fly is just not comparable in richness, quality
unbound basic features [89,90]. In blindsight, humans and extent to ours.
report to even have no conscious visual sensations at all (in Such considerations call for another distinction, that
the affected hemifield), apart from a vague sensation of between unconscious and non-conscious, or death. No matter
objectless motion when things move fast enough [91,92]. So how deep the sleep or anaesthesia, there remain clear differ-
what the fly sees may be similar to the limited experiences ences between brains that live and those that do not, both in
of blindsight and other patients, who would qualify their terms of remaining functionality and neural processing.
