
small number of muscles means only that these muscles functionally (correlations between neuronal activity),
cannot be independently controlled by the nervous system a choice that should be carefully considered in the a
and must have an amount of correlation. Thus, the predicted context of the line of inquiry. s
phenotypes (reduction in overall controllability of a few (iti) Chemical and electrical synapses, the two distinct forms of a
muscles) can be in some cases quite subtle. wiring between neurons, differ greatly mechanistically, 2.
While the structural controllability framework provides a with effects on connectivity that are felt at the network = S
deterministic number of controllable muscles, there is in general level (figure 2). Specifically, in chemical synapses, an =
more than one configuration of muscles that could make up electrical signal in the presynaptic cell is transformed =
this number. The set of 89 independently controllable muscles to a chemical signal (release of a neurotransmitter) “2
in the healthy worm is not unique, but we can assign a prob- and then transformed back to an electrical signal ©
ability to which muscles are controllable. This exploits the in the responding cell (neuron or muscle) through post- =
fact that there are multiple solutions to the control problem synaptic neurotransmitter receptors that are, or control, =
[35], each of which gives rise to the same level of controllability. ion channels. The signal is directional (from presynaptic =
Hence cataloguing the independent solutions can inform to postsynaptic cell), and the strength and timing of the -
us which muscles are more likely to experience a reduction in signalling depends only on the state (ie. membrane 2
control. For each ablation of a neuron or neuron class, we potential) of the sending cell. Despite some nonlineari- S
numerically obtained the probability pattern of each muscle ties, the properties of chemical synapses can be w
losing its controllability, and compared this pattern to that reasonably approximated by the matrix formulation of —
of the healthy worm. The difference between these two our control framework. 3
probability patterns reveals which muscles are affected most By contrast, electrical synapses (gap junctions) are ©
strongly by the ablation. In practice, we find that the sets of channels by which electrical current can flow between ©
affected muscles tend to be spatially co-localized across differ- coupled cells. While current can, in principle, flow in
ent solutions. For example, in the case of the DD neurons, the either direction through the electrical synapse, at any
control analysis predicted a reduction in control over the set given time it can only flow in one direction, and this