not a peculiarity of the compacted nematode nervous which then can be optimized based on detecting a prediction
system. In both rodent and primate cortex, the same neurons error [74,75]. In this context, we suggest that the widespread
can be tuned to several task parameters, like sensory inputs, motor command representation in worms could be integrated
decision variables and behaviour [60]. It has been proposed with proprioceptive feedback to optimize the execution of be-
that mixed representations can enhance the coding and haviour. This hypothesis is supported by our observations
decoding ability of neuronal activity in these larger neuronal that the reversal motor command is sustained in pharmaco-
networks (see [61] for details). Whether such principles can logically paralyzed as well as in physically constrained
be found in a downscaled form in C. elegans remains to be animals, compared to untreated unrestrained worms. This
shown. A prerequisite to address these questions is to suggests that information about lack of movement is con-
record activity of interneuron populations in freely moving veyed to the brain to prolong the motor command [20].
worms performing tasks in response to sensory stimuli, ide- C. elegans could be a tractable system to scrutinize these
ally in multisensory environments; then, the relative hypotheses.
contributions of motor variables and sensory inputs to neur- In fact, it appears that brain-wide representations of
onal activity must be carefully disentangled. ongoing multi-dimensional behaviour also dominate mouse

At the mechanistic level, RIA neurons solve the problem brain activity [76,77]. Behaviour representations explain the
of multiplexing signals within one cell by compartmentaliz- vast majority of variance in these brain-wide datasets, and
ing them in different subcellular domains of the neurite. So they persist unperturbed by, and in orthogonal dimensions
far, no study reported compartmentalized calcium domains to, both sensory input [76] and multi-stage decision-making
in the processes of other primary sensory interneurons AIY, task parameters [77]. Both studies address similar issues of
AIZ and AIA; hence, we must assume that sensory and data interpretation as we describe in box 1, and Musall et al.
motor information to be truly mixed in these neurons. How- [77] point out that many results in the rodent decision-
ever, it should be noted that neuronal compartmentalization making literature may require re-evaluation in light of these

could be more common than currently accounted for; for findings, as we have argued here for C. elegans literature.