the use of rewilding to mitigate the emerging disaster of mas- tributor to CC, particularly through its high greenhouse gas
sive carbon emissions from the thawing of permafrost across emissions [11]. More generally, the shift from wild to mana-
the world’s tundra. Conservative estimates suggest that this ged grazing has led to severe degradation of many
may lead to emissions similar to that of Russia, and 10% of rangelands, including large-scale soil erosion, reduced soil
emissions from China and the USA. In addition to this organic carbon, woody encroachment with associated
carbon emission problem, rapid woody encroachment reductions in albedo and negative effects on hydrology
across the Arctic is further accelerating warming by reducing, [39,93]. There are massive opportunities to reform the current
albedo (box 2). Studies from a rewilding project in the Rus- livestock industry and rewild our rangelands [94] by repla-
sian Arctic by Zimov and colleagues show that restoring cing, at least a proportion of, domestic ruminants with
the megafauna of the far north may freeze permafrost and native megafaunal communities (box 4). Even a shift from
reduce woody encroachment, strongly increasing carbon sto- meso-sized (cows) to small ruminants can lead to significant
rage and albedo [62]. Their calculations suggest that reductions in methane emission [14]. Such a shift is currently
restoration of abundant herds across the tundra biome in fact ongoing in large parts of Africa, where sheep and
would have globally significant CC mitigation effects goats are replacing cattle in response to increased frequency
[62,74]. But there is more to this opportunity than rewilding of droughts, but the consequences of this shift are unknown.
the Arctic. Large parts of the Northern Hemisphere, particu- The rewilding of rangelands requires a major paradigm shift
larly across the former Soviet Union and mountainous and rethinking of the world’s meat consumption and provi-
regions of Europe, experience massive land abandonment, sioning (box 4). It would also face major obstacles,
where as much as 40-70% of former agricultural land has including current international legislative and _ policy
been left fallow [90]. The resulting large-scale forest expan- schemes, such as the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy
sion [91] reduces albedo, which in these northern areas may (CAP) and vested interests that protect domestic herbivore
overwhelm the effects of carbon sequestration and induce meat industries and hamper the use of wild game meat: for
further warming [58]. Trophic rewilding may not only con- example, through strict food safety protocols limiting game

tribute towards reducing the woody expansion and meat from entering markets [97]. We therefore realize that