tall and weights 5.2 kg. NAO has 25 degrees of freedom and another round until the maximum of four rounds was reached.
is equipped with tactile sensors, directive microphones, high Then, NAO told participants that the interaction was over, and
definition cameras, loudspeakers as well as infrared sensors. that the experimenter would tell them how to proceed.

To realize an HRI scenario, participants played a memory
game with the NAO robot. They were seated in front of NAO,

the game was explained in detail, and participants had the (e) Video coding
opportunity to get instructed several times if needed. The com- The interaction between the participant and the robot was video-
plete interaction was videotaped. Participants were told that recorded. Participants were aware of the video recordings and
they would take turns turning cards for themselves and on consented before the start of the experiment. The video data
behalf of the robot. The rationale behind this procedure was were coded according to a scheme which was developed based
simply based on the fact that NAO’s hands are not suitable for on two taxonomies of behaviour. First, Mehrabian [29] has intro-
picking up cards from the table and for turning them around. duced a taxonomy of verbal and nonverbal behaviours which
The robot would therefore explain to participants that its arms are associated with attitudes and reactivity towards an interaction
were too short to pick up the cards. It instructed them in each partner [29]. It includes behaviours such as facial expressions
turn which cards they were supposed to turn (e.g. ‘please turn (e.g. smiles), gestures (e.g. nodding, head shakes), touch of one’s
the left card in the second row.’). To keep the trials as similar own body, eye contact, body signs of comfort and relaxation as
as possible, the cards would be distributed as shown in well as verbal utterances. Complementing this taxonomy, we
figure 1 for every trial. referred to Patterson’s work [30]. This encompassed a taxonomy
The NAO robot was operated by a trained experimenter via of nonverbal behaviours, including distance, gaze, touch, posture,
Wizard-of-Oz, meaning the robot appeared as if he would func- movements, self- and object manipulation, pupil reactions, and
tion autonomously and the participants did not know that the several other categories. Taken together, these two taxonomies
experimenter in fact controlled the robot. The experimenter formed the theoretical basis for the video coding scheme to analyse
would sit behind a partition panel during the interaction task. our qualitative data. To build a baseline, four randomly selected