the agricultural landscape is considered an ecological corri- fit to urban environments (e.g. noise adaptations) and those
dor by the planning authorities. They found out that exhibiting increased dependence on anthropogenic resources
human activity during the day in the agricultural fields [80,81], while their conspecific outside the urban areas remain ==
caused a shift in the activity of the golden jackal, Canis relatively unchanged. =
aureus, to the night. The endangered mountain gazelle, Bird singing dialects are a good example of how such pro-
Gazella gazella, also shifted its activity patterns in the presence cesses may be manifested: Danner et al. [82] found that females =:
of human disturbance, becoming much more active at night. of rufous-collared sparrows (Zonotrichia capensis) prefer to mate — 5!
However, in the agricultural fields, the presence of human with males singing natal dialects thereby driving reproductive = >
activity during the day, and the resulting increased levels of isolation. At the same time, several studies reported that urban =
predator activity during the night have practically excluded birds change their dialect to cope with the noisy environments = &
the gazelles from these areas, rendering them useless as [83] and males responded more strongly to current than to his- =
ecological corridors for this species [49,68]. torical songs [84]. Such behavioural divergence between bird =
Humans do not only modify animal-movement populations can lead to genetic differentiation despite the fact —
behaviour by introducing predators into the landscape. In that no physical barrier separates them from one other. 3
many cases, humans themselves are regarded as the preda- Another phenomenon that may induce behavioural divergence BS
tors. While this is of course evident in areas that suffer and generate LIF is habituation and the resulting dependence
from high levels of hunting or poaching (e.g. [69]), some rec- of wildlife populations on human resources. In Israel, commen-
reational activities also modify animals’ landscapes of fear sal foxes have access to abundant resources and consequently
and constrain their movements [70,71]. are characterized by high densities, smaller home-range size,
So far, this section has focused predominantly on the heavier offspring, and higher recruitment rates [85]. Although
effects of predation risk on animals’ movement patterns. individuals in these populations emigrate out into the natural
This is mainly owing to the fact that most known examples surroundings, they are unable to survive in the wild [86,87]
of interspecific interactions that limit and shape movement and with little evidence of any immigration, they appear to
are centred on predator—prey interactions. However, other be isolated from the fox populations in the surrounding matrix.
processes of interspecific avoidance inductions exist. One of A similar example comes from Switzerland, where allelic