neal social systems most likely evolved from simpler ones in gooses and male lions, which would be unable to acquire or = &
carnivores. We then review the fissiped carnivore species in defend important resources on their own; such key resources iat
which rudimentary or complex forms of matrilineal social sys- might include a territory or a group of females [8—11]. 2
tems occur, as well as the specific traits and socio-ecological Finally, in solitary mammals, the relationship between — ~
conditions that tend to favour the evolution of matrilineal a mother and the members of her litter endures only until 53
social systems. We emphasize that many gaps currently exist that litter is weaned, after which offspring disperse and the a
in our knowledge about the social interactions of many carni- mother resumes her solitary existence. However, selection
vores, especially solitary, forest-dwelling species in the may act to favour mothers and their offspring who remain
carnivore families Viverridae, Nandiniidae, Mephiditae and together after weaning. This is particularly true for mothers
Ailuridae. Finally, we conclude by reviewing the ways in and their daughters, because mammalian dispersal is often
which nepotistic and cooperative behaviour among female strongly male-biased. Mothers, daughters and sisters may
kin can enhance fitness. In this final section, we focus largely then come to tolerate one another and maintain their close
on long-term studies of lions and spotted hyenas in Africa. associations long after weaning, and in fact throughout

their lives, to cooperatively acquire or defend key resources.
Eisenberg and colleagues [2,4,5] referred to the temporary

2. The evolution of matrilineal societies in social unit composed of a mother and her dependent

offspring as a ‘mother—family’, and it is from this unit that

carnivores the most elaborate matrilineal social systems have evolved
John Eisenberg [2,3] reviewed evidence suggesting that early in mammalian carnivores, as they have in other orders of
carnivores existed in the Eocene at low densities and that they mammals, including primates [4]. The fact that carnivores
competed for both food and space. Each individual male and primates last shared a common ancestor roughly 90 Ma