neal systems, integration with markets and increasing wage lations were dealt with, they frequently mentioned that some
labour and wealth inequities have led to the displacement cows were allocated to sons, but that these transfers involved
of matrilineal preferences and shifts from large matrilineal discussions between the two families to ensure that such
grant families to nuclear families [7,59]. Wealth accumulated arrangements did not irreparably damage their relationships.

through wage labour would presumably not be subject to the In our vignette, which did not specify such preconditions,


fighting between families was frequently mentioned as a Omuhonga, we see both elements of the conflict (e.g. | 10 |

likely response. It should be noted that this represents a strong preferences for patrilineal inheritance across gener-
shift from Bollig’s reports on the same area, as he notes, ations) and the ways in which everyday practice manifests ¢
‘All Himba however agree on the fact that matters pertaining to deal with these conflicts. While the Himba system of =
to inheritance should be addressed only after the death of the inheritance does appear to be in a state of disequilibrium, =
person’ [48]. which may in coming years be amplified as market inte- “S
Another way that the double descent system might gration and inter-ethnic interactions increase, we expect at =
support continued matrilineal ties in the face of increasing least some elements of the double descent system to persist. S
patrilineal wealth inheritance is through levirate marriage. As the strength of kin ties through one line gains greater pro- = ©
When a man dies, his heir (brother or nephew) has the obli- minence, the obligations held by kin related in other ways =
gation to care for the orphans of the deceased (e.g. his may diminish. However, this would not mean the elimin- = 5
sons). This often includes cattle loans, effectively maintaining ation of alternative kin ties, only their reformulation in = =
matrilineal inheritance while providing access to the inheri- ways that are more consistent with social and economic rea >
tance by the patrilineal heir [48]. It is not hard to see how a lities at a given point in time. In the past, in the absence of — __
system with extensive cattle loans like this could transform strong, centralized governments, double descent offered a = =:
from usufruct rights to complete transferral of ownership multiplicity of social connections that enabled the recognition — 5!