which may be difficult to assess in cross-cultural analyses, malian species with modular social organization, like
are comparatively common. humans, a tension exists between all-male bachelor units
The dyadic withdrawal hypothesis suggests that conjugal and males with female partners [69]. When human bache-
partnership formation may be incompatible with maintaining lors can usurp male mating opportunities, those who
a robust same-sex social support network owing to a tradeoff occupy mating relationships are incentivized to create insti-
between investing in either friends or a conjugal partner [29- tutions for managing these bachelor threats [69]. Under
37]. In Dominica, one way to invest in the conjugal household conditions of matrifocality where normative patrilineal des-
is to labour in bay oil production with one’s spouse. Working cent exists but local resource competition causes men to
with a spouse increases household income, as scarce resources seek social relationships outside of the patriline, men may
are not diverted to incentivizing male labour. However, pur- have an incentive to use matrilineal kinship as a way of
suing such a strategy may cause a contraction of one’s neutralizing bachelor threats and increasing the scope

friendship network. In fact, our analyses demonstrate that of cooperation.


In conclusion, our analyses support the view that Ethics. The research was approved by the Institutional Review

emergent matriliny can organize social relationships within Boards of Washington State University: IRB no. 09673 and IRB
a patrilineal descent system that is matrifocal, and male-coa- no. 09673-0083. Ss
litionary dynamics play an important role. The dynamics of Data ac cessiility The datasets supporting this article are accessible via =
coalitionary behaviour is affected by nested levels of social the electronic supplementary material. . S
. . . . Authors’ contributions. S.J.M. conceived of and designed the research. <
relationships where each successive level includes more SJ.M., RJ.Q. and E-P. collected the data. S.J.M. analysed the data. =
people but at reduced trust and intimacy. Opportunity SJ.M., RJ.Q. and E.P. wrote the paper. x
costs do not permit people to simultaneously invest in both Competing interests. The authors declare they have no competing =