
v

po> a=) generic type TV system

Figure 3. Origin and evolution of class 1 CRISPR-Cas systems. The figure depicts a hypothetical scenario of the origin of class] CRISPR-Cas from an ancestral
signalling system and its subsequent evolution yielding the extant type Ill and type | systems, as well as reductive evolution that produced type IV systems
and minimalist variants of type | system recruited by Tn7 transposons. The key evolutionary events are described to the right of the images. ‘GGDD’, a key catalytic
Motif of the cyclase/polymerase domain of Cas10; ‘A’, catalytically active RRM domain of a RAMP protein; RE, LE, right and left end, respectively; TR, terminal
repeats. (Online version in colour.)

The discovery of the cOA-Cas10 signalling pathway domains apparently emerged very early during evolution.
suggests a plausible possibility which, in fact, has been dis- Under the proposed model, the ancestral signalling system
cussed previously solely on the basis of protein domain evolved to become an innate immunity mechanism as a
and gene neighbourhood analysis, that the ancestor of the result of the acquisition of an HD DNase domain and serial
CRISPR-Cas effectors was a stress-response system that trig- duplications, fusions and diversification of the RRM domains
gered PCD upon activation by an alarmone, such as cCOA which yielded a complex endowed with the RNA-binding
[106,111] (figure 3). A potential candidate for the role of and -processing capacity (figure 3). The complexity of the
such a signal transduction system with a defence function organization of many type III loci encoding an active COA
has been identified in the genomes of several bacteria, synthetase and the growing number of ancillary proteins
namely, a protein that contains a single palm domain hom- that are likely to be involved in the cOA signalling pathway
ologous to the active polymerase—cyclase domain of Cas10 as effectors imply a key role of the COA pathway in defence
[106]. The potential effector coupled to this predicted signal- mechanisms. Notably, in this model, the function of innate,
ling enzyme remains unknown, although, in a few cases, both and eventually, adaptive immunity evolved from a primor-
CARF and HEPN domains are fused to the minimal cas10- dial PCD/dormancy induction form of defence (figure 3).