Grb10 in the brain has been selected to reduce risky, variance- growth, the selection asymmetry derives from two stylized
increasing social dominance behaviour, whereas maternally facts: (i) the resources supporting early growth come prefer-
expressed Cdkn1lc has been selected to enhance social entially from the mother, and (ii) offspring of the same
dominance behaviour. mother may have different fathers. While the magnitudes of
Two paternally expressed imprinted genes, Peg1/Mest these underlying asymmetries may have varied over time,
and Peg3, have been associated with maternal behaviour their polarity has likely been constant over the history of
towards offspring [9,10]. In both cases, loss of paternal mammals. The result is a selection asymmetry on maternally
expression of the gene in the brains of adult females leads and paternally inherited alleles that has been sufficiently
to deficits in specific maternal-care behaviours, including strong and persistent to drive the evolution of the molecular
nest building and pup retrieval. One interpretation of machinery of imprinting and the acquisition of imprinted
maternal care behaviour is that it modulates a trade-off gene expression at dozens to hundreds of loci.
between number and quality of offspring. A reduction in The strength of the selection asymmetry in fetal growth is
maternal care would allow the mother to focus her likely due to the fact that relatively modest alterations to

resources on producing her next litter, at the expense of resource allocation early in development can have large


effects on an offspring’s growth, survival and eventual repro- necessary evolutionary timescale: the asymmetry between El

duction. By contrast, the selection asymmetry on gene male and female reproductive variances. Owing to the
expression in the central nervous system is likely much subtlety of the selection asymmetry, the underlying variance
more subtle. While there is a relatively straightforward con- asymmetry needs to have existed consistently for a long time =
nection between, say, growth-factor expression in the in order for the arms race to have driven the accumulation of = 3
placenta and the acquisition of maternal resources, gene significant imprinted gene effects on the target phenotype. =
expression in the adult brain has its fitness effects via Among mammals, this variance asymmetry has likely been = =