Cdknic gene in the brain [13]. Assertion of social dominance
can be interpreted as a high-risk behavioural strategy, as it

effects of standard genetic manipulations are limited to the
central nervous system.

may lead to increased reproductive success (if the animal (d) Origins of imprinted genes affecting behaviour
achieves social dominance), or may lead to negative repro- While there is widespread imprinted gene expression in the
ductive consequences as a result of social conflict. This is mammalian central nervous system, imprinted genes are
consistent with natural selection acting in opposite directions best known for their effects on early growth and develop-
in these oppositely imprinted genes. Paternally expressed ment, particularly during pregnancy. In the context of fetal
Grb10 in the brain has been selected to reduce risky, variance- growth, the selection asymmetry derives from two stylized
increasing social dominance behaviour, whereas maternally facts: (i) the resources supporting early growth come prefer-
expressed Cdkn1lc has been selected to enhance social entially from the mother, and (ii) offspring of the same
dominance behaviour. mother may have different fathers. While the magnitudes of
Two paternally expressed imprinted genes, Peg1/Mest these underlying asymmetries may have varied over time,
and Peg3, have been associated with maternal behaviour their polarity has likely been constant over the history of
towards offspring [9,10]. In both cases, loss of paternal mammals. The result is a selection asymmetry on maternally
expression of the gene in the brains of adult females leads and paternally inherited alleles that has been sufficiently
to deficits in specific maternal-care behaviours, including strong and persistent to drive the evolution of the molecular
nest building and pup retrieval. One interpretation of machinery of imprinting and the acquisition of imprinted
maternal care behaviour is that it modulates a trade-off gene expression at dozens to hundreds of loci.
between number and quality of offspring. A reduction in The strength of the selection asymmetry in fetal growth is
maternal care would allow the mother to focus her likely due to the fact that relatively modest alterations to
