A close inspection of the verbal concepts that name events sur-
rounding death has revealed some of the exceptional ways that
we think about events of death, providing a unique perspective

Williams [28, p. 85] proposes that arguments that are either on our mental representations of thanatological phenomena.
required overtly or implied by a verb make up a mental rep- The discovery of manner of death verbs as a special verbal
resentation he calls a sketch, similar to earlier ideas found in class that violates the long-held manner/result complementar-
Fillmore [29,30], Langacker [31] and many others. In his ity constraint on verbal meaning suggests that results of death
terms, a sketch ‘provides a psychological perspective on hold a special status in human thought and interest. In this
things that satisfy the predicate, perhaps engaged by default paper, we have examined the manner and result components
when one thinks of a thing as a satisfier of the predicate’. of manner of death verbs, finding that they are, indeed, encoded
Thus the verbal concept of steal engages the notion of a by these verbal concepts. Given that these verbs appear to
victim by default as part of a stealing event, but not the name manners, the fact that results of death are also encoded
notion of a time that resides elsewhere. was surprising and can be seen as further evidence that

In a similar way, the verbal concepts for manner of death human cognition treats events of death as prominent and
verbs also engage with a result of death by default and highly salient. Having a highly salient result but also needing
seem to be part of a manner of death verb’s sketch.'® Native to name a manner, manner of death verbs bypass the manner/
speakers know that every event named by a manner of death result complementarity enforced by our mental grammar and
verb results in death by default, and this result of death is cer- constraints on learnability, encoding these meaning com-
tainly salient enough in our minds when we think of events ponents on different levels of meaning. The asserted meaning
of beheading, guillotining or immolation to, for instance, of manner of death verbs encodes their named manner, while
block to death resultative, as seen in (30). Importantly, it is presupposing the prominent result of death meaning com-
not a grammatical requirement that manner of death verbs ponent. Results of death, it seems, are of such an exceptional
exist in natural language. Instead, it is this functionalist status to our minds that we presuppose them when talking