lyses that heritability is lower in less favourable how winning male—male contests elevates mating and


fertilization success’. For brevity we do not. Specialization strength of selection in §5 so we now focus on plastic changes

can reduce variation in male reproductive success under in selected male traits.
sexual competition if males make the ‘best of a bad job’ First, it seems self-evident that the mixture of plastic
(e.g. small males or those in low condition sneak rather responses by males to social cues, the signalling environment
than court [141]). More generally, when males plastically and the total resources they acquire and assimilate (i.e. con-
adjust their investment in sexually selected traits to take dition) owing to being in a different environment makes it
advantage of information about individual females, this can almost impossible to predict how resources will be allocated
reduce variation in male fitness. For example, males can to different sexually and naturally selected traits. Less
plastically adjust ejaculate size based on cues about a female’s obvious, however, is the fact that it is still difficult to make
previous mating history or the likelihood that she will predictions even if we only consider adaptive allocation of =
re-mate [113]. resources to different condition-dependent traits [95]. The 5
Conversely, plasticity could increase Vp in male reproduc- adaptive response to an increase in condition driven by greater = =
tive success under sexual competition. For example, a lack of resource acquisition is to allocate these additional resources = >
detectable variation among males in one trait in a novel to the trait with the greatest marginal fitness gains. (Ina __
environment could favour females that shift their attention novel environment, where fewer resources are available, we =
to assessing males using another trait ([135]; see also [142]). can treat this as a question of reduced investment into the =
If males plastically adjust their investment into sexual traits trait where there will be the smallest marginal decrease in fit- >
that are still detectable by females [143], this could increase ness.) This suggests that additional resources will be allocated =
(or decrease) the variation in attractiveness among males exclusively to a single trait with the highest gain, such that = &
depending on the ease with which females can discriminate only a single trait exhibits positive condition-dependence. iat
among males for different trait-environment combinations. There are, however, general reasons to believe that marginal =