flange is thus far unknown in the eggs of nest-building bees. that of its host, the rate of embryonic development associated
Torchio & Burdick [57] detailed the behaviour of another with a smaller egg may actually be faster than that of a larger
brood parasite, the epeoline Epeolus compactus Cresson, 1878, egg, a clear advantage given that the first egg to eclose is the
a brood parasite of Colletes kincaidii (Cockerell, 1898). Epeolus one most likely to survive, especially in nest cells parasitized
compactus used the paired, spined projections on sternite 6 to with multiple eggs [44]. Rozen [61] proposed another expla-
cut a U-shaped opening either in the upper portion of a side nation, namely that small eggs may also be an evolutionary
wall of an open cell or through the cell cap of a completed cell adaptation to facilitate egg hiding by brood parasites attack-
abutting onto an adjacent cell still being provisioned; in the ing open nest cells. In a later study, Rozen [48] found that the
case of the latter, the parasite’s larva emerged into the still eggs of brood parasites attacking open nest cells were statisti-
open adjacent cell. After egg deposition, the parasite added cally smaller than those of parasites attacking closed nest cells __
a few drops of Dufour’s gland secretions to the area where or those of nest-building bees, providing evidence that the = =
the tip of the egg was inserted through the cell lining. relatively small eggs seen in parasites of open nest cells = 5!
These secretions dissolved the cut edges of the cell lining may, in fact, be an adaptation related to their parasitic 5
and filled the space around the egg. When this substance har- strategy. =
dened, a continuous impermeable layer was formed between g
the cell lining and the egg, thus anchoring the egg to the cell 2
wall and preventing the entry of moisture into the cell [57]. 4, Evolutionary convergences with other brood S
Thus the Dufour’s gland secretions applied by E. compactus wee N
likely serve a role analogous to that of the apical flange parasitic lineages =
seen in the eggs of Sphecodopsis (Pseudodichroa). A slightly The need to avoid detection by a host female has led to the =
different strategy is seen in species of Isepeolus, whose eggs evolution of a series of behavioural and biological adap-
are flattened and display a flange running along the length tations in multiple lineages of brood parasitic bees. These
of the egg. These physical attributes serve to further conceal adaptations, including the use of chemical mimicry and at
the egg, which is deposited by Isepeolus along the inner least three strategies related to egg-hiding, have evolved mul-
surface of the cell lining of its host, species of Colletes. tiple times independently and thus represent remarkable