negative and positive values of muscle activation lu, t), along the body, respectively.

opposite side all along the body. Unlike the muscle activation, endeavour. A variety of behaviours studied to date, from
the curvature maintains an approximately fixed wave speed. invertebrates to humans, are controlled by CPG circuits that
The corresponding curvature kymogram with superimposed are subject to activation and modulation by descending control
contours of peak (positive and negative) excitation confirms and ascending sensory information, often in the form of pro-
this observation: the body elasticity is too weak (relative to prioception [44,45]. Indeed in a number of cases, sensory
the mechanical load by the environment) for the tail to respond neurons are embedded within the pattern generating circuit
as promptly as the anterior of the nematode. itself, such that a meaningful description of the behaviourally
While our results for the posterior part of the body may not relevant pattern generation mechanism invariably combines
match the curvature dynamics in the nematode, they highlight the two [46]. Whatever the rhythm generating mechanism,
the sensitivity of the system to the exact form of sensory input. however, all motor behaviour is ultimately generated by the
In fact, the rich dynamics in the tail demonstrate the tight coup- combined action of neural circuits and the body. It stands to
ling among kinematic parameters of curvature, wavelength, reason, therefore, that an integrated understanding of neural
wave speed and thrust under feedback control. It is striking circuits and biomechanics can provide a much more complete
that the point along the body at which the phase lag emerges understanding of the control of motor behaviour [9,41,47].
under feedback control coincides with the range of the proprio- While the importance of proprioception is well established
ceptive field (L/2 in this case, see electronic supplementary in controlling posture and locomotion in a variety of limbless
material, §S1). In our model, the proprioceptive range gradu- and legged species [4,48-51], the roles of proprioception in
ally vanishes in the posterior half of the body. Indeed, with shaping motor patterns in peripheral and central nervous sys-
different ranges of the proprioceptive field, the phase lag tems is not well understood. In C. elegans, proprioception has
emerges consistently at the point along the nematode at been studied primarily with a focus on posture or locomotion
which the receptive field begins to decrease (electronic sup- [22-28,52]. Although the neural circuitry of C. elegans is fully
plementary material, figure S5e). Thus, we conclude that, mapped, the precise pattern generating mechanism respon-
regardless of the proprioceptive range, feedback control leads sible for locomotion remains undetermined. The evidence to