[34]. Other approaches for measuring three-dimensional trac- to the mechanical forces required to stretch/compress the
tion forces have been developed to address these issues, for linker, have been developed to measure intracellular forces
example, modelling the viscoelastic properties of collagen, across focal adhesion proteins [47]. Recent advances using a
fibrin and Matrigel matrixes or measuring the deformation variety of elastic linkers have now increased the sensitivity
of individual collagen fibres [35,36]. and extended the detectable force range of these genetically
Another challenge of experiments in biological matrices is encoded tension sensors from 3 to 11 pN [48,49]. To analyse
that cells can alter the local and global mechanical properties two biosensors simultaneously in the same cell, orthogonal
of the ECM by degrading, remodelling or synthesizing it, tension sensor modules that can be imaged together with a
necessitating taking into account local matrix properties. single excitation wavelength using dual colour fluorescence
Increasing the density of fluorescent beads embedded lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) were recently developed

within the matrix to increase the spatial resolution must be [48], further expanding the available toolbox.
balanced with the fact that low densities typically increase
the accuracy of displacement measurements. In either case,

tracking fluorescent bead displacement may not provide suf- 3. Qu antitative measurements of the mechanical
ficient indication of local ECM remodelling. This issue can be . . . .

partially overcome by confocal reflection imaging, which ana- prope rties of three-dimensional environments
lyses the fibrous structure of collagen matrices [37], bypassing The physical pore sizes of interstitial spaces and openings in
the need for fluorescent probes. This method uses partial endothelial layers have been extensively characterized by his-
volume correlation (PVC) to quantify cellular contractility tological analysis and intravital imaging; these measurements
in a label-free, three-dimensional tissue mimicking configur- [6] serve as guiding design parameters for engineered in vitro
ation and reveals details about the ECM microstructure models [7,50,51] discussed in ยง4 (Current and emerging
