groups, for higher animal species, must be thought of as pas- through the mechanisms of awareness afforded by inter-
sing through (at least) cognitive, affective and conative ‘filters’. visibility and co-presence resulting from effects of configur-
Thus, an individual’s ‘beliefs’ about the world they perceive, ation on movement routes, the built environment also holds
their ‘desires’ and emotional state, and their immediate and the potential to generate and constrain social interactions
longer-term ‘intentions’, will all affect how they interpret and connections. In other words, it can act to reproduce a
and respond to their perceived environment. At a social social form, or alternatively to generate new social forms.
level, the functional programme or regime of a community It has not escaped our notice that this mechanism may
or organization, and community culture and power relations help account for how it is that human social, cultural and
can be thought of as contributing to this as well. technological evolution accelerated so rapidly after the first
As a first-order approximation, this is of course a reduc- dense built settlements started to be constructed in the 10th
tive model. The reality will be much more complex due millennium BC in the Eastern Mediterranean.

to the feedback loops involved, the fact that individuals

have memory and learn, and that, for humans at least, organ-

izations and communities also develop social practices over Data accessibility. This article has no additional data.

time. The effect of cognitive, affective and conative filters Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.


Funding. J.S.T.’s work on termites was supported by a grant from the Acknowledgements. The authors wish to thank Noa Pinter-Wollman for the

Human Frontiers Research Program (RGP0066/2012). A.P. wishes invitation to contribute to this volume and for her ongoing support
to acknowledge the EPSRC funded Centre for Nature Inspired through to publication. We also wish to acknowledge the generous criti- ra