Dominican Republic 85193.075 0.07 “2
The Bahamas 80982.638 0.07 %
China 80345.972 0.07
Taiwan 73564.043 0.06

Figure 2. Census-travel model introduction risk for citrus HLB in Central and South Florida citrus-producing regions, comparing retrospective and recent risk esti-
Mates (note that HLB spread within/between USA is not explicitly considered). (a,d) Source CRls for the top 10 countries of highest risk contribution in 2000 and
2010, respectively. Note, over time, Brazil emerged as the largest contributor of HLB risk of introduction for Florida. (b,e) Introduction risk estimates by census tract
for 2000 and 2010. (cf) Higher resolution metropolitan Miami demonstrating the shift in risk distribution for introduction points.

sampling points within each designated land parcel. This table prior introductions, post-introduction spread and vector
can be used as a ‘scenario generator’ to estimate fiscal, personnel population distributions, among a variety of other epidemio-
(surveyors, supervisors, support staff, etc.), vehicle, equipment logical or social risks. In fact, the model has already been
and miscellaneous requirements needed to survey for new intro- incorporated into various federal and state regulatory risk-
ductions. By changing the sampling frequency, i.e. the number based surveillance programmes as a major component of
of samples assigned to parcels by their risk category, the overall risk. Two recent deployments of the census-travel model
logistical requirements of the survey are conveniently recalcu- include its incorporation into PPV surveys for New York
lated and can be used by regulatory agencies to explore the since 2013, and more recently, for early detection in
possibilities of apportioning manpower and fiscal resources in California, where introduction risk output is combined with
various ways to achieve regulatory goals. other risk layers to generate an overall risk map (electronic

When developing targeted survey methodologies, it is supplementary material, figure S1A,B). Similarly, the
important to not bias efforts exclusively towards areas with census-travel model generates a risk component for continual
higher risk because of the uncertainty that all risk factors introduction of Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas) which
influencing introduction and propagation are known and has been incorporated into ongoing CLas/ACP surveys in