into account that in some cases, the use of NaCl may lead Daphnia and Bosmina embryos always stopped before hatching,
to a risk overestimation. Still, even if overestimated, NaCl- even when transferred to freshwater [67]. Therefore, increased
based derived safety values would be protective for the salinity may delay hatching processes in some species while
most sensitive species. hampering it in others.

Together with the daphnid D. longispina and the rotifer
B. calyciflorus, the cyanobacterium Cy. raciborskii was also

(b) Most sensitive freshwater species one of the most sensitive species to increased salinity levels.
Daphnia longispina, B. calyciflorus and Cy. raciborskii were the Other studies performed with this species have already
most sensitive freshwater species to increased salinity. The reached similar evidences [68]. Its growth may be reduced
ECso,naci for feeding and somatic growth of D. longispina at salinity levels higher than 2g1-' of NaCl (approx.
were 3.21 and 3.48 mScm_|, respectively; the ECs9.Naci for 3.96 mS cm”). In fact, Moisander et al. [68] verified that at
reproduction of B. calyciflorus was 1.7mScm™! and the an NaCl concentration of 10 g17' (approx. 19.8 mS cm™')

ECsonaci for growth rate of Cy. raciborskii was CO) fixation by the cyanobacterial cells totally ceased.
2.65 mS cm™'. These values are above the salinity threshold
for freshwaters (considered to be within the range 0.15—

0.5 mS. cm", [55,56]), which suggests that even the most (c) Multigenerational exposure to low levels of salinity
sensitive freshwater species may be able to cope with very After the multigenerational exposure to low levels of salinity,
low levels of salinization. However, these ECs) values are most of the studied species did not exhibit an increased
more than 15 (D. longispina sublethal endpoints) and tolerance to salinization. Previous studies have shown that
30-fold (B. calyciflorus reproduction) smaller than the SW continuous exposure (e.g. six generations in D. pulex) to a
conductivity (approx. 52mScm™! in the Atlantic Ocean; stressor could trigger mechanisms that allow the maintenance