host was associated with just one single nucleotide poly-
morphism. The third known case involves the transmission

This opportunistic bacterial pathogen of humans lives as a of the CC97 strain from livestock into humans. In fact, phylo-
commensal within the nasal cavity, but can also cause soft genetic comparisons of human lineages with other livestock
tissue abscesses and a range of serious invasive diseases CC97 showed two independent jumps into humans from
[39,A0]. It is one of the leading causes of hospital-acquired the major bovine S. aureus complex, one of which has now
infections, although infections outside of hospitals have emerged globally [46]. Human isolates of CC97 have since
increased in frequency in the past decade [41]. Staphylococcus increased over 10-fold during 5 years in Denmark [46].

aureus is, however, able to infect more than just humans and The relatively high number of host shifts involving S.

has been isolated from a range of domestic hosts, such as aureus is unusual, but may be explained by the fact that


this bacterium has a smaller than average genome and a high substitution [55], both of which may have driven rapid host | 5 |

molecular clock rate [50], both of which might facilitate the specialization. But this system also points to factors that
evolution of host specialization (see above). While we have may have played a role in successful pathogen emergence.
so far focused on a discussion of the pathogen features that First, we know the jump into house finches was accompanied
may have influenced speciation in the novel hosts, this by a significant loss of CRISPR repeat diversity followed by
system also points to a role of two ecological factors that the gradual complete loss of CRISPR function [55]. This
may have facilitated the jumps. First, time-scaled phylo- could be explained by a loss of bacteriophage pathogens as
genetic analyses reveal that the known host shift of this M. gallisepticum jumped into house finches; whether this
bacterium all date to within the past 100 years (but see would have been a cause or a consequence of the jump is