We find that the traditional, most sensitive species- or SSD- environmental management decisions.

based WQG derivation methods greatly overestimated toxic At a minimum, a future WQG for water hardness must
effect when water hardness was used as the contaminant of consider the toxicity of Ca and Mg both independently and
concern. The presence of non-geographically relevant species in combination to account for their interactive toxicity and
amplified the overestimation, as did the inclusion of data contribution to total salinity. Improved reporting of basic
with extremely low Ca: Mg ratios that are not present within water quality, and all major ions, such that they can be
the exemplar region. Anion type did not affect water hardness better evaluated as potential toxicity modifiers is required.
toxicity across species but the Ca : Mg ratio remained toxicolo- Although data supporting formal WQG for water hardness
gically relevant, underscoring the importance of considering were unavailable, we suggest using a two-component back-
major ion ratios when developing WQG. Interestingly, there ground condition approach, which controls for both water
was no significant difference in mean effect between acute hardness and the Ca: Mg ratio. Doing so resulted in WQG
and chronic exposure groups. In fact, data could be used inter- that were applicable beyond the regional scale. However,
changeably in SSDs with little to no effect on HC5 estimates. additional laboratory and/or field research are required to
Still, this conclusion may also be owing to the limited determine the ecological significance of these values and
amount of data available to build the models. Nevertheless, support validation of the proposed approach.

broad-scale implementation of most sensitive species- and

SSD-based WQG was impractical because water hardness Data accessibility. The data used herein have been uploaded as part of
varied greatly beyond and within the regional scale. the electronic supplementary material supporting the article. Statisti-

It is possible that the best approach to WQG for major cal software and data classification protocols are publicly available
online, as are described in the Material and methods section. R
