certain psychoactive substances [14], although it is largely =
There are other phenomena that share some, but not unknown how these brain mechanisms relate to developmen- 3
necessarily all, of these characteristics. This has led to some tal synaesthesia. Moreover, attempts to train adults to iat
uncertainty and disagreement as to where synaesthesia have grapheme-colour synaesthesia clearly tick all the charac- =!
begins and ends. To give a flavour of this debate, I shall teristics for synaesthesia listed above [15]. But trained s
consider three examples: that of mental imagery, learned synaesthesia has a different causal mechanism (unless one — &
associations and grapheme personifications. argues that child synaesthetes trained themselves deliberately)
Synaesthetic concurrents are like mental images. Mental and has other characteristics (transient rather than lifelong
images are percept-like experiences that can extend to differ- associations). Trained synaesthetic associations could be
ent modalities (not just vision) and could be projected construed as a phenocopy: an environmentally created pheno-
externally. Indeed synaesthetes tend to report more vivid type that resembles one that is determined by genetic factors.
mental imagery in everyday life (i.e. beyond their synaesthe- In short, synaesthesia can be defined in terms of a core set
sia itself), such as when imagining a fictitious scene (e.g. [6]) of characteristics (phenomenology-based) that may emerge
or recalling a previous memory [7]. This suggests that the from several different, but potentially related, causes. The
connection between synaesthesia and mental imagery is current focus is on developmental synaesthesia and, in the
more than a superficial resemblance. However, most mental next section, I argue that this is not on a continuum with
imagery does not have the characteristics of being involun- neurotypical cognition.

tary or induced [8]. Another example of involuntary mental
imagery is flashbacks in PTSD (post-traumatic stress

disorder), and grapheme-colour synaesthesia is a significant 3. Syna esthesia is spe cial: it is not on a
risk factor for this following trauma [9]. ; : ; .

With regards to learned associations, these fulfil the first continuum with neurotypical cognition