believe that its main message is still valid today, at least in time—standard designation of invertebrate central nervous
principle. The main thesis of Dr Netsky’s paper was to tissue structures as ‘cephalic ganglia’. This designation is
make the point that articulating a comprehensive, purely still sometimes used even though all available evidence indi-
structural definition of a ‘brain’ is bound to be rather difficult cates that such nerve conglomerates serve as the control
or even impossible, at least in a way universally accepted by centre of the organism; in other words, an actual, bona fide,
the general scientific community. In these lines, Dr Netsky brain. Sarnat and Netsky’s point of contention was thata = =
proposed that a proper definition of a brain would include ganglion and a brain are fundamentally distinct entities, >
aspects of structure and function integrated with mechanistic meaning that a ganglion, however large, can never develop-
explanations of how a brain would generate its multiple func- mentally transition into a brain. In these lines, they could = =
tions. Some of these functions include but are not limited to, not find any examples of this transition; in every example — 5"
the detection of environmental signals, the processing and that they explored, a ganglion seems to remain a ganglion = >
interpretation of these signals in order to generate behaviours however big it would get. Their chosen example to illustrate =
(ideally, from an evolutionary perspective, these behaviours the point was the well-known fact that certain dinosaur = &
would enhance the survival chances of an individual). species displayed an enlarged lumbosacral ganglion, which iat
Finally, other functional aspects of a brain must include learn- actually was several times larger than the actual dinosaurian =!
ing and memory processes in order to make use of the brain (this ganglion was colloquially called a second brain). —
interpretation of such signals to better cope with future They—I think correctly—argued that it was highly unlikely 3
environmental challenges. Additionally, Dr Netsky stated that this ‘hyperdeveloped’ dinosaurial ganglion endowed &
that any proposed definition of the term ‘brain’ should address the organism with additional cognitive abilities. Upon sub-
questions like whether brain convolutions are essential to its mission, their paper was peer-reviewed by several
function (in fact, they are not; many vertebrate species lack invertebrate zoologists who oddly enough, took emphatic
brain convolutions with no apparent disadvantages; case in exception to the idea of an ‘invertebrate brain’, and in no
point: birds). uncertain terms advised Drs Netsky and Sarnat to abandon

As a self-professed lexicophile (a dictionary enthusiast), the concept of an invertebrate brain. Happily, they did not,