centre to surpass a threshold that leads to potassium release. on the metabolism dynamics and the stress relieving capabili-
As we have recently described [6], oscillations can be triggered ties of the cells owing to the potassium effects. The AtrkA
in experimental biofilms by transiently stopping the media mutant strain was characterized in [7] to be deficient in electro-
flow of the microfluidics chamber. This is also the case in this chemical signalling, owing to the deletion of the gating domain
model, where oscillations can be triggered by transiently set- of the YugO channel. The mutation can be interpreted to render
ting the flow-rate parameter (#) to zero. If the biofilm is a channel with reduced conductance and increased basal leak
sufficiently large, such a perturbation leads to a sudden [7]. This can be modelled with increased ay (to simulate a
reduction in the glutamate availability and stress increase, leaky channel), and reduced gx (to simulate reduced conduc-
with the subsequent potassium release and oscillatory onset tance once the channel is open). The model simulations
(electronic supplementary material, figure S1). predict that oscillations start at the same size as with the
Moreover, the model predicts that depolarizing any basal parameters, but with a reduced period, in good agree-
region of the biofilm should be sufficient to trigger a self- ment with the experimental data (last condition in figure 6).
propagating wave of stress and potassium release, with the The unaffected onset size is consistent with the fact that gluta-
associated changes in membrane potential. This is repro- mate metabolism is largely unperturbed in this mutant,
duced experimentally as shown in figure 5c: a short whereas the altered potassium channel leads to less effective
increase in the concentration of potassium in the media trig- stress relief during wave propagation (electronic supplemen-
gers a wave in experimental biofilms, which propagates tary material, figure $2), and thus facilitates a subsequent
inwards from the original (peripheral) depolarization site. cycle. Therefore, the relationship between biofilm size and

oscillation period is not universal, but depends upon the meta-
bolic and electrical signalling capabilities of the cells and thus

4. Glutamate metabolism and stress release on the genetic background of the strain.
determine oscillation onset size and period
