the phylogenetic lineages leading to sponges and other ‘primi- The most numerous type of animals on earth, the arthro-
tive’ animals did possess an actual nervous system that was lost pods, display a ganglia-based nervous system, controlled by a
along the course of evolution [43]. All animals possess an brain (which is sometimes still denoted as a cephalic ganglion),
unambiguously recognizable nervous system, with the poss- with a series of ganglia alongside a ventral (as opposed as the
ible exception of sponges. Sponges are filter feeders; vertebrate dorsal) nerve cord. The presence of ganglia con-
however, there are some notable exceptions: at least four nected by nerve tissue in arthropods is consistent with the
species of carnivorous sponges actively capture prey in a way segmented nature of their body architecture [56]. Then there
curiously reminiscent of certain carnivorous plants [44]. Preda- is the remarkable nervous system of the cephalopods (octo-
tion in these sponge species appeared to have evolved only puses, squid, etc.). These animals are undoubtedly the most
once and it is not clear whether these sponges possess bona intelligent of all invertebrates. They show a significant degree
fide nerve cells. However, some lines of evidence indicate the of functional convergent evolution with the nervous system of
presence of relatively sophisticated sensory cells in certain vertebrates [57]. However, structurally, the vertebrate and
sponge species, as well as complex gene networks related to cephalopod brains look nothing alike, and in fact, it has been
sensory functions in these organisms [42,45]. established that they do not share a monophyletic origin [52,53].

More recently, molecular data seems to indicate that cte- These are just a few examples of the best-known, non-
nophores (jellyfish-like active predatory organisms) and vertebrate animal brains. In this issue, you will read about
sponges are ‘equally basal’, which as a first approximation examples of organisms that show rather atypical systems
is unlikely owing to the marked differences in their morpho- capable of performing many, if not all of the activities that
logical and physiological complexity [46]. Recent reviews of a ‘traditional’ brain can. In the particular example of organ-
the evidence for each position (i.e. sponges first, ctenophores isms lacking an evident centralized nervous system, some
first, or both equally basal) expresses the idea that even scholars have proposed to speak of ‘aneural cognition’ or
though both positions are plausible, there is no conclusive ‘headless thinking’ [58]. These entities do undoubtedly
evidence to make a concrete ruling on this matter [47-49]. expand how we think about brains. Let us briefly explore
Clearly, additional data is needed to figure out the most some representative examples of such organisms.