295 Mecoptera a
eal Siphonaptera
T T T T T T T
450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100

Mya

Figure 1. Cladogenesis of the main insect groups in a chronological context. The phylogenetic reconstruction is based on Misof et al. [11] and Wang et al. [12]. The
main discrepancy between these two proposals is the situation of Paraneoptera, which is monophyletic for Wang et al. and polyphyletic for Misof et al. Divergence
times are generally similar in both proposals. Those indicated here are based on the average values reported by Wang et al. [12]. Modified from [12]. (Online version
in colour.)

Palaeozoic. In this context, the present essay contends that the Devonian, some 400 Ma [11,12] (figure 1). The fact that
emergence of hemimetaboly should be considered one of the extant pterygotes are monophyletic [11,12], and that the
great innovations in insect evolution. wing types of all insect orders are constructed in the same

Hemimetaboly emerged with the clade Pterygota (viz. pres- way, both in extant and fossil species [17], strongly suggest
ence of wings), as we have no fossil record of any apterous that wings evolved only once. The monophyly of Pterygota,
hemimetabolan insects in the Devonian [11,12]. The innovation in turn, suggests that there was a single origin of hemimeta-
of hemimetabolan metamorphosis after the emergence of wings boly and that this could be linked to the emergence of wings.
[13-15] is probably not coincidental, but rather hemimetaboly Fossils can provide direct evidence of the origin and mor-
could have come about as a consequence of wing acquisition. phological evolution of metamorphosis. Nevertheless, studies
Ametabolan species, like the firebrat Thermobia domestica documenting the fossils of successive stages of the same
(Zygentoma), undergo morphological modifications through- species are scarce [18]. The most complete series of Palaeozoic
out their life cycle, including the apparition of scales between fossils of successive nymphal phases are of Megasecoptera