The final criterion shifts focus from signal production, instead assigning intentionality to the signal or class of signals
requiring a consistent behavioural response from the recipient in question (table 1), but it is widely claimed that great ape
that is appropriate for the signal given (e.g. moving away from gestures are produced with first-order intentionality.
the perceived threat that elicited the signaller’s alarm calls). By contrast, vocalizations have traditionally been viewed
The recipient response needs to be consistent across multiple as automatic, zero-order intentional signals elicited by specific
signalling events, and needs to occur immediately after a signal environmental events (e.g. the presence of a predator [34)). It is
more frequently than at other times (chance level of response only in recent years that markers of first-order intentionality
behaviour occurring), in order to show that the response is con- have been applied to vocal behaviour to challenge this
nected to the signal. This criterion is important to demonstrate stance (table 1). On the other hand, experiments testing
that signals are effective, and that recipients seem to understand second-order intentional signal production have only been
the signal or the signaller’s goal in some manner. conducted in the vocal domain, not in the gestural domain.

To date, studies have focused on identifying behavioural Capitalizing on the fact that in many species alarm calls func-
indicators of intentionality (e.g. persistence, gaze alternation or tion to refer to predators, experiments have been designed to
social usage) without reaching a consensus on how these test whether alarm calls are produced selectively to ignorant
should be applied in methodology. Surprisingly, there is no group members, to change their mental state from ignorant
established acceptable number of behavioural indicators to knowledgeable. While captive macaques do not mediate
required to classify a signal as intentional [24]. The definition their alarm or food calls as a function of their offspring’s
offered by Townsend et al. likewise does not specify this [12], knowledge about a predator or food source [15], more promis-

but instead requires that a signal demonstrates at least one ing results suggest that wild chimpanzees may be more likely


&
é€