~ . . er precursor to the evolution of language. Both laboratory and &
2. Defining intentional communication field experiments have been designed to try and identify ~
To begin with, we have the problem of defining intentional second-order vocal production in primates, where researchers
communication in a way that can be operationalized and have tested whether the knowledge state of the audience med-
tested in non-verbal species. Varying definitions of intentional iates call production in the signaller [15,16]. However, before
signal production have hindered the progression of our knowl- second-order intentional signal production is tackled, the first
edge in this domain. The term ‘intentionality’ originated in logical step seems to be to distinguish first-order from zero-
philosophy, introduced by Franz Brentano, referring to puzzles order intentional signal production. This approach has been
of representation, linking together the philosophies of mind recently advocated [9,12], particularly as children can struggle
and language [5]. Brentano believed that intentionality was a with high-order meta-representations [17], yet do not struggle
prevalent property in all mental states, from beliefs and with language, and communication in adults does not
hopes to love and hatred, with these always being about or always rely on such high-order representations [18]. In order
referring to a specific target, property, or matter of fact (real to identify first-order intentional signal production, a clear
or imagined). Notably, Brentano’s thesis suggested that inten- framework with observable behavioural criteria is required.
tionality is only a mental phenomenon, and cannot exist in Townsend et al. provide such a framework [12], bringing
non-mental constructs such as sentences of natural languages. together markers that have previously been used to identify
However, Searle [6] and Grice [4,7] reinterpreted intentionality first-order intentional communication in prelinguistic humans
as it might apply to actions and communication, moving it and non-human animals. They propose that an animal has
beyond Brentano’s original formulation. Grice’s early concep- communicated with first-order intentionality if the following
tualizations of intentional signalling require sophisticated three conditions are met: (i) a signaller acts with a goal when
meta-representation from both the recipient and the signaller communicating to a recipient; (ii) the signaller exhibits voli-
[4,7,8]. He proposed that when producing an intentional tional control over recipient-directed signal production to
signal, it is explicitly clear that the signaller is communicating obtain their communicative goal; and (iii) that the recipient
something to the recipient (also known as ostension), and the alters their behaviour in a way that is in line with the signaller’s
fact that the signal is communicative is mutually understood goal. The value of this framework lies in its ability to define the