We hypothesized that the TPCs of subpopulations of location) also reflects the high level of variation in perform-
plastic thermal specialist species would change shape and ance among colonies. A likely explanation for this hig,
position according to the thermal variability and mean among-colony variation is dispersal of coral larvae across
environmental temperature of their local environment, large distances, and among subpopulations with different
as observed for various physiological traits of other coral thermal histories. Coral recruits can be sourced from the
species (e.g. [55,56]). Specifically, we expected increas- local reef [62], but many spawning species (including the
ing thermal breadth with increasing latitude owing to species studied here) produce larvae with a relatively long
greater thermal heterogeneity at high latitudes, but decreas- planktonic stage that can disperse to maintain moderate to
ing thermal optima with increasing latitude owing to lower high levels of gene flow along the GBR [30]. Hence, the
mean environmental temperatures. Results for the thermal influx of maladapted (cold or warm) genotypes or pheno-
performance of symbiont traits showed a general trend con- types on reefs around LI, OI and HI may have prevented
sistent with these hypotheses, but not for the thermal perfect acclimatization of each population and increased
performance of holobiont traits. In fact, although the optimal within-population variation. Moreover, despite collection of
temperature for holobiont performance (Pn and R) varied coral fragments from colonies that were approximately the
among coral populations, it did not consistently match the same size, these colonies potentially settled onto the reef in

(recent) average environmental temperatures at each site as different years with different environmental conditions.


Strong developmental plasticity at the time of settlement
could also drive high variation in thermal responses later
observed among adult colonies. Lastly, the variation in Topt
for holobiont dominated responses between Acropora colonies
was larger than the thermal variation they experience
annually. Although this negates successful acclimatization