specific synaesthete perceives when being presented with the they are processing a letter. For synaesthetes, the non-veridical
‘A’ or ‘E’ letter. By means of this manipulation, in conditions colour’ is thus likely to be a fundamental part of the event file. In
with matching non-veridical colour features, the letter ‘A’/‘A’ cases where the objective colour of the presented letter does not
(‘E’/‘E’) was presented in the matching synaesthete-specific match the non-veridical colour coupled to the ‘identity’ of the
RGB code (as obtained from the Eagleman Battery) of the non- target letter (conditions with mismatching non-veridical colour
veridical (automatically perceived) colour for the letter ‘A’/‘A’ features), there will likely be an interference between the non-veri-
(‘E’/‘E’). For participant 1, for example, ‘A’/‘A’s were presented dical and the veridical (objectively presented) colour feature
in red, and ‘E’/’E’s in orange (see figure 5). For conditions with dimension. Therefore, non-veridical stimulus features, although
mismatching non-veridical colour features, the letter ‘A’ /‘A’ (‘E’/‘E’) not objectively presented, should impact on executive control. As
was presented in the RGB codes of the synaesthete-specific ‘non-veridical colour’ is not perceived by controls, such
synaesthetic concurrent of the letter ‘S’ (‘T’), hence creating inter- interference should only apply to synaesthete participants. Fur-
ference between the subjectively perceived non-veridical colour thermore, differential effects are to be expected in synaesthetic
of this specific letter and the actual colour in which the stimulus participants for Go and NoGo trials. This is based on the fact that
was presented. For participant 1, for example, ‘A’/’A’s were pre- for NoGo trials, the stimulus feature ‘identity’ essentially becomes
sented in yellow instead of the synaesthetically perceived red, task-irrelevant (A or E), as inhibition is required in response to the
and ‘E’/’E’s in blue instead of orange (see figure 5). Hence, an letters’ ‘shape’ (bold italics versus normal font) disregarding its
‘idiosyncratic conflict’ between the objectively presented colour presented ‘identity’. Therefore, the ‘non-veridical colour’ should
of the target and the idiosyncratically perceived non-veridical differentially affect Go and NoGo trial performance. Similarly, as
colour of the stimulus was specifically created for each the feature ‘identity’ might be less important for task performance
synaesthete in the mismatching non-veridical conditions. This in corresponding than in non-corresponding trials, performance
manipulation created the following eight experimental condi- differences might be expected based on the ‘location’ of the trial.
tions: corresponding Go trials with matching or mismatching Before conducting the experiment, a standardized exercise of
non-veridical colour features, non-corresponding Go trials with 40 trials using white letters was conducted to familiarize partici-
matching or mismatching non-veridical colour features and pants with the task. The experiment consisted of 7 blocks of 160
corresponding NoGo trials with matching or mismatching non- trials with an equal distribution of pseudorandomized corre-