aim to show that, perhaps counterintuitively, exposing the both types of unilineal descent, termed bilineal (also double = =
ambiguity in terminology goes a long way towards resolving or double unilineal; [5,19]). Note that the parental line through 5!
the conceptual confusion. It then becomes possible to outline which descent is traced need not match the gender of the =>
a framework for the study of kinship systems that applies ancestral individual. For example, patrilineal descent may =
across animal species with biparental sexual reproduction. be traced back to an ancestress [5]. g
Reasoning from first principles, I develop such a framework A society is said to have a rule of descent if a person’s des- iat
in the abstract, without reference to the social organization of cent status determines membership in a socially or culturally = 3
specific human or non-human populations. This is a deliberate defined category. In particular, a descent group isa kin group
strategy, to avoid conflict with established interpretations of whose members share appropriate status, as specified by the S
relevant patterns. I begin by providing explicit definitions of society’s descent rule ([19]; see discussion below). This does S
key terms and concepts (§2). Next, I derive the logical impli- not imply that the individuals belonging to such a group
cations of the definitions in cross-specific perspective (§3). reside together—indeed, they may never even meet as a
The insights that emerge are then applied in cross-cultural per- group. In fact, the reckoning of descent need not lead to the
spective (§4). In particular, I corroborate these insights by (i) formation of descent groups [5]. These tend to be found
examining the distribution of two relevant features of where there is group property to manage (e.g. joint owner-
human social organization (§4a), (ii) briefly summarizing ship of impartible land) or some group obligation to fulfil
related conclusions obtained through anthropological analy- (e.g. worship of ancestral individuals) [1].
sis in the twentieth century (§4b), and (iii) reframing lineal To summarize, some societies recognize one or more
kinship organization in terms of biases in investment towards modes of descent; in others, descent is only minimally salient,
specific sets of kin (§4b). I conclude by outlining how this or not at all. Unlike kinship reckoning, then, descent reckoning
framework applies across species (§5). Readers interested is not universal [19]. Quoting Keesing [19, p. 22]
exclusively in non-human social behaviour can skip §§2 and
4, focusing on §§3 and 5 instead. [iJn societies where descent groupings are culturally relevant,

bilateral kinship is also always recognized and always important.