related, low O; availability in polar waters [10]. Consequently, wide range of body sizes. Access to congeneric species cover-
one prediction from the respiratory advantage hypothesis is ing a wider range of body sizes, or investigating a large
that gigantism should be absent in polar groups characterized enough number of species of known phylogeny to incorpor-
by good respiratory control. A second prediction is that ate phylogenetic non-independence, would have been ideal
reduced O, should have a disproportionately large effect on but neither option proved possible. The fourth species,
the performance of small-bodied individuals. P. brevicornis, was chosen because it has a larger body size
Moran & Woods [25] identify at least eight hypotheses than the relatively closely related, S. gracilis (same family)
explaining ‘gigantism’. While it is unlikely that body size and its size range overlaps with two of the other species.
variation generally, and gigantism specifically, can be attribu- It also appears to be considerably more active and has a
table to simple or univariant explanations [25,27], the three different body form from the other three species.
O, theories outlined above are testable, and amphipod crus- These four species are abundant and co-occur in the same
taceans in particular, given their relatively conservative body habitat, a relatively shallow-water (6-8 m depth) boulder
plan and the fact they have already contributed much to our field close to Rothera Research Station, in coastal waters of
understanding, make excellent models. Therefore, the aim of the western Antarctic Peninsula (electronic supplementary
this present study was to test the predictions arising from material, S1). There is also some evidence that even when
these three hypotheses using carefully selected amphipod overlying water is normoxic, small individuals living beneath
species. The main performance measure chosen was the those boulders may experience reduced PO,s (electronic
ability to maintain respiratory independence during exposure supplementary material, S1).

to acutely declining PO,s. It does not seem unreasonable to
assume that such respiratory independence is a good fitness
proxy given the importance of aerobic metabolism in a
relatively active group such as the amphipods.

2. Materials and methods