
psittacine, was much better than the songbirds at discriminat- found that the birds converged on certain sequential patterns.
ing changes in syllable order in zebra finch motifs suggests Zebra finch song across wild and captive individuals also
the value of more comparative studies. shows a hint of sequential regularities across populations,

The excellent discrimination of syllable structure by zebra though in general motifs seem to be random sequences of
finches is perhaps not unexpected in that zebra finches, par- syllables [87]. So, perhaps only a very simple computational
ticularly, and birds, in general, excel in the discrimination of mechanism for sequence perception is necessary for song
temporal fine structure of complex sounds, well beyond the learning and maintenance in zebra finches. Or, if a more com-
abilities of humans (and perhaps other mammals) tested on plex mechanism is involved, perhaps it is available for only a
the equivalent tasks [80-84]. These results raise the possibility few weeks after hatching and then is no longer fully accessi-
that much more information might be transmitted in the fine ble from auditory input in adult zebra finches. This
structure of complex birdsong syllables than has previously conclusion is somewhat tempered by the fact that Braaten
been suspected from an analysis by traditional spectra and et al. [64] showed no differences in juvenile and adult
sonograms or from human perceptual reports. Indeed, sequence perception of syllables. Another possibility is that
while zebra finches produce song syllables in a repetitive the auditory mechanisms involved in learning to produce a
fixed sequence, there is some acoustic variation among rendi- song sequence in juvenile males are different from those
tions of a motif within a song bout [60]. If it is shown that involved in song perception. Female zebra finches, of
birds can discriminate acoustic differences in the performance course, do not learn to produce songs, but can perceive
of the same natural syllable across renditions of the bird’s sequence differences in classification tasks and can even
motif, this would suggest that birds may enjoy a far richer learn to do so faster than males [88]. This suggests that
communication system than previously envisioned: one that male and female zebra finches may share a neural substrate
primarily uses syllable structure rather than syllable sequence for extracting sequential features, which is at least partly dis-
to communicate biologically relevant information [84]. tinct from the mechanisms in juvenile males for learning to
