GPCRs in mediating 20E signalling that leads to apoptosis several Atg proteins as well as factors involved in the PI3K
has been reported in H. armigera as well [29]. Similar to the signal transduction pathway were soon identified, thus
silk gland, a biphasic activation of the apoptotic process by demonstrating the existence of a well-organized autophagic
20E has also been observed in the silkworm midgut. In par- pathway in these insects [19,30,40-44]. Zhou et al. [45] also
ticular, Romanelli et al. [30] demonstrated that the first identified two paralogous genes that code for Tor, a key regu-
ecdysone peak promotes the transcriptional upregulation of latory factor of autophagy in eukaryotes. The upregulation of
apoptotic genes in the midgut, but a second 20E peak is both BmTOR genes by starvation and 20E, two signals that
necessary to obtain caspase cleavage and the subsequent acti- promote autophagy in Drosophila by recruiting Tor, confirms
vation of the apoptotic process. In this setting, IAPs, which act that silkworm Tor is able to mediate the activation of the
through binding to key apoptotic players and whose removal autophagic pathway triggered by nutrient conditions and
is necessary for caspase activation, could contribute to the hormones [45].
regulation of the apoptotic process by 20E. In Lepidoptera, The autophagic pathway in the fat body is elicited by 20E
IAPs are highly expressed at the end of the last larval stage through a twofold activation process. In fact, the 20E commit-
when the 20E commitment peak occurs [30-35] and the high ment peak during larval-pupal transition inhibits the PI3K/
levels of IAPs can likely block the activation of caspases. Con- Torel (Target of rapamycin complex 1) pathway and activates
versely, after metamorphosis begins, and concomitantly with the downstream Atg1/Atg13 complex, thus inducing autop-
the occurrence of the 20E metamorphic peak, the expression hagosome initiation. In parallel, 20E also contributes to
of IAPs decreases, while the mRNA levels of death activator autophagosome formation by upregulating the transcription
genes and caspase reach a maximum, a clear indication of of ATG genes: this effect is mediated by the action of
the shift of the cells to the apoptotic condition. This evidence Broad-Complex (Br-C) and downstream proteins, but also
confirms the existence of a cross-link between IAPs and cas- through direct interaction with the promoter of ATG genes,
pases in regulating the activation of apoptosis in Lepidoptera as demonstrated for BmATG1 [46]. Data on the midgut sup-
and suggests that these anti-apoptotic proteins may play a port the double regulatory effects of 20E on autophagy in
role in the two-step process needed to activate apoptosis fol- lepidopteran organs. In fact, a single dose of ecdysone in
lowing the 20E peaks. Recently, the Hippo signalling this tissue can induce the transcription of ATG genes and,