
nanoSIMS

Figure 2. Diagram of cultured independent techniques that allow visualization of active microbes at the single-cell level. MAR relies in the incubation of a sample
with a radio-labelled substrate, BONCAT with an artificial amino-acid (surrogate for methionine) and Raman and nanoSIMS with a stable-isotope labelled substrate
(see text for details). These four techniques can be coupled with catalysed reporter deposition fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH) to target-specific
prokaryotic groups, which enables the quantification of the relative contribution of these groups to the activity. Visualization allows for the characterization of
the cells in terms of cell size or biomass, and naturally occurring associations between cells. Among these single-cell techniques, only BONCAT and Raman can
be coupled with the sorting of active populations for follow-up molecular characterization in terms of diversity (165 rRNA gene) or functional potential
(single-cell amplified genomes or metagenomes of active cells). NanoSIMS image courtesy of Nestor Arandia and Anne Dekas.

advantage that substrate concentrations in the micromolar these bacteria compared to Thaumarchaeota [57]. Similarly,
range do not result in the induction of inactive cells, and BONCAT-FISH and BONCAT-FACS were crucial to identify
the fluorescence intensity of the BONCAT signal correlates the key players in a microbial consortia catalysing the anaero-
well with values of heterotrophic prokaryotic production bic oxidation of methane in deep methane seep sediments
[54]. BONCAT can be coupled with FISH [17,54], and with [53], which would have been impossible to tackle by non-tar-
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) [53], so that geted ‘omics techniques, where the spatial resolution and the
follow-up molecular analyses to characterize the active popu- aggregation at the microscale is lost. Another nice example is
lations can be performed. the story behind the unusual endosymbiotic nitrogen-fixing
Although the development of ‘omics approaches has cyanobacterium UCYN-A, that was initially discovered
provided an unprecedented way of looking at the micro- from short nifH sequences in the 1990s. It was not until the
organisms in the ocean and has unveiled metabolic use of single-cell approaches like single-cell sorting and
processes that were hitherto unknown, inferring activity downstream molecular analyses together with the visualiza-
from genetic data is still extremely challenging. Visualization tion through FISH (see [58] and references therein) that the
of the cells through microscopy or indirect techniques like ecology of this globally relevant symbiotic cyanobacterium