that the pseudosuchian lineage was as or more successful All extant mammals and archosaurs possess an interventricu-
than dinosaurs for the entirety of the Triassic Period [98-101]. lar septum that allows for complete flow and separation of
The rise of dinosaurs appears to have been a consequence of the pulmonary and systemic blood flows. It is unequivocal
the end-Triassic Mass Extinction, which disproportionately that pressure separation was essential for the evolution of
affected pseudosuchians, leaving Crocodylomorpha as the systemic endothermy, as the high systemic cardiac outputs to
sole surviving clade. If basal archosaurs and pseudosuchians meet the high oxygen requirements of endothermic tissues
used their extensive osteodermal armour and sculptured necessitate larger systemic and, therefore, intraventricular
dermal bone to bypass the constraints of ectothermy, it may pressures. A persistent conundrum of modern archosaurs,
explain how they sustained high activity and avoided however, is that modern crocodylians are not endothermic,
being outcompeted by the emerging endothermic clades— yet possess an interventricular septum that allows for higher
dinosaurs, pterosaurs and mammals—throughout the Triassic systemic blood pressures. Seymour et al. [107] proposed that
Period. This hypothesis requires extensive testing, but is tenta- modern crocodylians evolved from endothermic ancestors,
tively supported by the fact that ornamented dermal bone is and that endothermy was secondarily lost due to the cost
not only absent in dinosaurs and dinosaur-related Triassic associated with maintaining endothermy in a fully aquatic

archosaurs, but is less prevalent in pseudosuchian archosaurs environment. Recent work on basal archosaurs supports the


hypothesis that high metabolic rates are ancestral for the clade dioxide was limited by lung ventilation via a positive-

[96], although these animals lack upright postures and seem to pressure buccal pump, large body size and a likely thick inte-
have been considerably less active than modern endotherms. gument, increasing the likelihood these animals would have
Nevertheless, systemic endothermy is not possible without a incurred a respiratory acidosis while on land. It is also
four-chambered heart, so such a heart would have had to likely that the ability of these animals to compensate for
evolve before the condition of endothermy. What type of selec- lactic acidosis by increasing ventilation rate was limited.