mimic a longer flagellum, leading to reduced IFT injection, under the assumption that the rate of assembly depends on
but this result was not observed, arguing that the time-of- the rate of injection. The two curves only intersect at a single
flight mechanism is unlikely to explain the length depen- value of length, which is thus a unique steady-state solution.
dence of IFT injection [25]. An alternative model that has This model is able to account for a number of phenomen-
been considered is based on the idea that the kinesin-2 ological observations including the ability of a cell to equalize
motor that drives IFT must diffuse back to the base of the fla- the lengths of its two flagella [19,33] and the variation of fla-
gellum in order to drive further injection, and the rate at gellar length as a function of flagellar number [21]. However,
which the diffusing motors return to the base is a function the model rests on the assumption that flagellar assembly rate
of flagellar length. Computational simulation of such a is proportional to the IFT injection rate.
model shows that it can in principle account for length Recently, an alternative model for flagellar length regu-
regulation [26], but the model awaits experimental validation. lation has been proposed, in which the loading of tubulin
Regardless of the mechanism creating the 1/L depen- and other cargo onto the IFT trains is the key length-regulated
dence of injection on length, the fact that IFT injection step, and length dependence of IFT injection itself is not
decreases as length increases has potential implications for viewed as being the relevant aspect of the process [11,14].
how flagellar length is regulated. We have previously In this report, we examine the role of IFT injection and ask
reported a model in which flagellar length is determined by whether it could be sufficient to explain length regulation, or
the balance between assembly and disassembly. The doublet whether instead length-regulated cargo loading is a necessary
microtubules of the flagellar axoneme undergo continuous component of the system. First, we examine mutations that
disassembly at their distal ends [19,31,32], and we have increase IFT injection, and ask whether they produce the
found that this disassembly rate is independent of the expected increase in steady-state flagellar length. As shown
length [19]. Because IFT is length-dependent, with a lower by the dashed line in figure 1c, an increase in the injection
rate of IFT injection in longer flagella, it is proposed that versus length curve will cause the two curves to intersect at a
the rate of assembly of new tubulin onto the tip will be new, longer length. Thus, mutants that increase IFT injection
reduced as flagellar length increases. As flagella elongate, should lead to increased length to a degree that is predictable
the assembly rate will continue to reduce until the assembly by the equation in figure 1b. If they do not, such a result