of C. elegans, are frequently in 60-80% frequency [36,49]. ness, resulting in greater efficiency of selection for individuals
Herein, we demonstrate that in high frequency, the Actb-1 mito- with reduced abundance of Actb-1. Furthermore, as the fre-
type is indeed severely deleterious for each of four assayed quencies of Actb-1 and WT become more equal, random
fitness-related traits. In this respect, the Actb-1 mitotype is simi- partitioning of mitochondria into eggs generates greater vari-
lar to deletions uaDf5 and mptDfl that have been previously ation in the numbers of Actb-1 and WT within individuals
described in C. elegans, resulting in delayed development, than when Actb-1 was high. Subsequently, this engenders
reduced productivity, shorter lifespan and lowered survivor- greater variation in fitness. It is currently unclear if Actb-1
ship to adulthood [36,3849]. Furthermore, Actb-1 bearing would have reached an equilibrium frequency owing to the
worms are rapidly driven to extinction when competed against opposing forces of individual and within-individual selection,
WT worms. However, we are unable to delineate the specific or if it would continue to decline until the Actb-1 mitotype
contribution of each of the five linked mutations comprising became extinct. If there is a real threshold level below which
the Actb-1 mitotype to the composite 52% fitness decline. detrimental mitochondria are selectively neutral, Actb-1
Indeed, one or more mutations may in fact be compensatory might also persist in the populations until it is eventually lost
in nature. Irrespective, this compensatory role, if present, by genetic drift.
does not preclude or offset the substantial fitness cost to the An upregulation of mtDNA copy-number has been
worms bearing this mitotype. suggested to play a role in the proliferation of mutant mito-
Given that C. elegans is amenable to long-term cryopreser- chondrial genomes [49,50]. Although we observe an increase

vation, we were offered a unique opportunity to retroactively in mtDNA copy-number in some replicate lines of 1G, this


was not apparent in other lines that contained the same Actb-1 transmission advantage because they replicate more rapidly | 13 |

deletion in high frequency. There was a correlation between owing to their smaller size [61]. The experimental evidence
mutant and WT mtDNA quantity, which can be interpreted for the hypothesis that shorter mitochondrial genomes are S