intervals of the Pleistocene when the snowline extended is greater than contemporary ecological studies alone =
further downslope than it does today [59]. would suggest. However, the potential ability of MPPs 5
Based on the faunal assemblages in these Pleistocene to adapt to otherwise lethal conditions in the alpine/ = =
deposits, it is clear that these communities were far more subalpine zone triggered by climate change are limited by >
speciose than those that contain living MPPs. For example, in two thresholds: exposure to lethal temperatures following — _
Nettle Cave, MPPs coexisted with at least 23 other kinds of the loss of snow cover in winter, which could happen rela- =
terrestrial mammals [59] in contrast with only six that coexist tively suddenly at any time [31]; and lack of an essential = 5!
with MPPs today [26]. These Pleistocene taxa, all still-living source of food of the kind and volume currently provided a
species, include arboreal forms such as sugar gliders (Petaurus by bogong moths, which are rapidly disappearing [39] as =
breviceps) and brushtail phascogales (Phascogale tapoatafa), climate change progresses. g
which suggests the presence of forests or at least woodlands Considering the evolutionary record as a whole, there is iat
in the area adjacent to Nettle Cave. no evidence that there was ever more than a single species
The fact that all known faunal assemblages from the Late of Burramys alive at any one time. Each of the four species, s
Oligocene to Pleistocene that contain species of Burramys were all of which are small (less than approx. 50g), is distin- s
highly species-diverse, in distinct contrast to those that contain guished from the others by relatively minor dental features 5
MPPs in the alpine zone today, suggests that the modern depau- such as the specific number of ridges on the flank of the pla-
perate situation is aberrant and probably a reflection of the giaulacoid premolars. We interpret this to suggest that these
extreme conditions that characterize the alpine/subalpine four species, which form a chronocline of essentially very
zone. Hence, the introduction of MPPs into contemporary, similar species spanning 25 Myr, may represent an anagenetic
lowland, more mesic species-diverse communities would lineage whose members have occupied the same basic eco-
be re-establishing the geologically/palaeontologically more logical niche in wet forests in lowland areas over this
‘normal’ community structure for species of this genus. period of time. Although it is possible that some as yet
Pliocene to Quaternary pollen records [60-63] suggest unknown pre-modern species of Burramys occupied a differ-
that different forest types have been expanding into and ent niche in highland or lowland areas, there is no evidence
out of upland areas of the Great Dividing Range in cycles that this was the case. Hence, we suggest the high probability