hard-to-access landscapes including at higher elevations [74]. different taxa. By contrast, modern-day abundance has been
The precision of dating for zooarchaeological records, shown to be a strong predictor of abundance in the Holocene
represented by the length of available date ranges, also faunal record for other vertebrate groups [18]. Sources and
varied across the Holocene, providing a further source of bias patterns of bias in Holocene faunal datasets therefore need to
in our zooarchaeological dataset and influencing its ability to be carefully identified and quantified on a case-by-case basis,
make inferences about past biodiversity baselines and human particularly accounting for potential variation in bias between
impacts. This temporal variation partly reflects the mix of different taxonomic or ecological groups, and considering
absolute and relative methods used to date records; whereas appropriate spatial extents, timescales and types of faunal
the majority of our zooarchaeological records were indirectly data that are most relevant to the specific parameters of
dated, direct radiocarbon dates are generally associated with different research questions.
shorter ranges. However, in general, we found that zooarch- However, while this study has addressed potential
aeological records were assigned increasingly specific dates limitations associated with the use of recent fossil and
nearer to the present. This finding probably reflects the fact zooarchaeological data ‘at face value’, we also recognize
that archaeologically defined time periods (e.g. Mesolithic, that Holocene faunal data can be a reliable and important
Neolithic, Bronze Age) tend to denote changes in human indicator of biodiversity change when bias is accounted for.

technology and subsistence, and so become narrower towards Indeed, we have previously used the zooarchaeological


dataset studied above to reconstruct mammalian range Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this paper are available in the | 9 |

change across the Holocene in Europe, and by controlling electronic supplementary material.
for sample size variation across time and between different Authors’ contributions. J.J.C. and §.T.T. designed the research and coordi- — S
species we were able to reconstruct the dynamics of range nated data collection; Jc. and B.C. analysed the data; and J.J.C. and =
declines and identify taxonomic variation in vulnerability SLT. wrote the manuscript _. ay