tional gene-analyses enable tracking of phylogenetic groups would wrongly imply a cause and effect relationship, rather
and correlation is predicted between phylotypes and ecological than a mere statistical relationship.) It is not valid to consider
conditions. The validity of this concept depends on the validity that correlation demonstrates direct links between phenotypic
of the assumptions on which the concept is based. In particular, and environmental characteristics. Internet searches of bizarre
it assumes strong links between phylogeny and function, or spurious correlations provide many examples of correlations
which is considerably less in prokaryotes than in animals with no imaginable rationale. They also provide countless
and plants for which the concept was developed (see [13]). examples of football supporters, players and, even, managers

following rituals on the basis of past correlations. The signifi-
cance of these correlations usually dwarfs those that we can

(a) Niche specialization and microbiomes hope for from community ecology studies, but are based
In fact, this concept is incorporated, though not intentionally, in solely on superstition. Nevertheless, we routinely see examples
the term ‘microbiome’. ‘Biome’ has been used for many years to of inference or ‘prediction’ of future events based on corre-
describe plant or animal communities that have common charac- lations between a few environmental characteristics and
teristics for the particular environment in which they are found, relative abundance of phylotypes with no evidence of causal-
e.g. temperate forests. This implies links between physiological ity. This can reflect a desperate, last resort, arising from
and environmental characteristics, for which there is evidence ignorance of physiological characteristics, but usually it reflects
in plant and animal communities. The ‘micro’ prefix represents a lack of desire to identify scientific questions and consider
microbial community and, for example, the term soil micro- potential mechanisms prior to data collection.

biome not just refers to soil microbial community composition Secondly, measured soil characteristics are usually chosen
but also suggests that the community is special in some way, on the basis of custom (measuring what other people measure),
with physiological characteristics selected by the physical, habit (cf. Hume [10]), cheapness, availability of equipment and
chemical and biological characteristics of soil. In addition, the expertise, ease of use, fashion, etc. The choice is not based on a