neurons [10], while REM sleep selectively eliminates and maintains newly formed synapses via dendritic calcium (Ca’*) spike-dependent mechanisms [14].

role of REM sleep of removing excessive random connections AMPAR-mediated currents and dramatic synaptic pruning
to free up space for future memory storage, thus influencing [112,113], all in support of synaptic downscaling. Of note,
storage capacity and increasing signal-to-noise ratio. Counter- low-frequency oscillation is not the sole characteristic of
intuitively, for the small fraction of new spines spared by NREM sleep. Mimicking the co-occurrence of slow oscil-
REM-mediated pruning, REM sleep functions further to lations with spindle activity in vitro reveals potentiated
increase their size, strengthening these task-associated per- postsynaptic responses, which possibly drive a postsynaptic
sistent new spines (figure 1b) [14], which are critical for LTP if a synthetic spindle activity pattern is delivered at
neuronal circuit development and behavioural improvement 10 Hz [114].
after learning [106,109]. The study also shows that dendritic General anaesthesia, a drug-induced reversible state of
calcium spikes arising during REM sleep are likely involved unconsciousness, resembles aspects of sleep when consider-
in the pruning and strengthening of new spines. ing gross behaviour and patterns of EEG activity. In fact,
Together, these two studies demonstrate that different NREM sleep and deep phases of anaesthesia have similar
states of sleep affect different aspects of synaptic structural slow-wave oscillations comprising up- and downstates.
remodelling after motor learning (figure 1c). Post-learning Thus, anaesthesia has served to date as one model to study
NREM sleep promotes branch-specific spine formation, the impacts of sleep on neural circuits. Anaesthetics, such
which facilitates the survival of learning-induced new as ketamine mixed with xylazine [30,115] and urethane
spines and contributes to the long-term retention of motor [116,117], produce slow-wave oscillations that are more regu-
skills [10]. Post-learning REM sleep appears to eliminate lar than SWS. Under conditions where anaesthetic-induced
most of the newly formed spines while also increasing the up- and downstates are followed for longer durations,
strength of new spines that persist over time and thereby bal- apical tuft dendrites of L5 pyramidal neurons could drive
ancing the number of learning-induced new synapses over significant changes in dendritic filopodial dynamics. Keta-
time [14]. mine-xylazine transiently increases filopodial formation
