period, the extent of selection on the core genomes, and eco- >

3. Dynamics from meta3C evolutionary dynamics of the accessory elements, and even __
A typical metagenomic study delivers millions of short DNA measured rates of HGT. The latter, 4-19 genes per year, =
sequence reads that, depending on the depth of coverage, exceeded core site substitution rates for the majority of genomes. — S'
might be assembled into hundreds of thousands of contigu- This level of insight from culture-independent and refer- = =
ous sequences (contigs), with an average contig size in the ence genome-free strategies is impressive. The door to =
kilobase pair range. Knowledge of contig proximity is largely further discovery is now wide open, with these studies &
absent and thus ability to assemble them into genomes is lim- already providing a glimpse of dynamical processes within =
ited. When the community comprises a diverse range of complex communities—especially those associated with 5
species (each composed of numerous lineages), then even mobile genetic elements and HGT—that are likely fundamen- N
mapping to reference genomes (where they exist) may fail tal to how microbial communities function and evolve. In s
to improve matters. Many of the difficulties would be fact, evidence of substantive movement of DNA between =
solved if it were possible to assemble contigs into complete community members is the essence of the black queen
genomes. A technique known as 3C (chromosome confor- hypothesis [43,44] and likely plays a significant role in distri-
mation capture), or Hi-C, does precisely this, but buting genes necessary for community function among
additionally provides quantitative data on interactions cellular lineages [45].

among DNA molecules. The latter in particular stands to
revolutionize understanding of dynamical processes within

communities. 4. Experimental manipulation of dynamics

The technique (3C) measures physical contacts by DNA A complementary approach to those involving direct obser-
segments within and between DNA molecules and has vation is to impose some kind of experimental