
0 0.5 1.0 0 0.5 1.0
active dispersal dormant dispersal

Figure 4. Average per cent error between slopes of environmental distance—decay relationships (DDRs) from the field survey and slopes of environmental DDRs from
simulated communities versus randomly drawn values of active and dormant dispersal parameters. Community similarity is based on the Bray—Curtis (a,b), Sorensen
(cd), and Canberra (e,f) metrics. Each point represents the result of a single model and is coloured according to the value of environmental filtering.

that we were agnostic as to how dormancy was distributed by local-to-regional scale environmental changes as well
among taxa with respect to their relative abundance. For as variation among individuals and microhabitats [9].
example, we did not assume that highly abundant (i.e. domi- Consequently, even after dispersal occurs, the combination of
nant) taxa were active or that rare taxa were disproportionately dormancy and environmental filtering may dampen the
dormant. In fact, dominant taxa have been shown to be dispro- signal of biogeographic processes. In particular, environmental
portionately dormant while rare taxa have been shown to be filtering may decrease the homogenizing influence of unhin-
disproportionately active [14,56]. dered dispersal, dormancy may decrease the influence of

dispersal limitation, and both may operate simultaneously.
Our findings challenge commonly held assumptions

(c) Rethi nking microbial dispersal about homogenizing dispersal and its effect on microbial bio-
The role of dispersal in shaping the biogeography of micro- geography. Homogenizing dispersal has often been invoked
organisms has fuelled decades of debate. In contrast with when biogeographic patterns fail to emerge from microbial
many DDR studies, the independence of environmental datasets. Though rarely recognized, this reasoning assumes
distance and geographical distance in our study should that dispersal is more or less directionally random and
have allowed the signatures of dispersal and geographical dis- occurs frequently enough to swamp the effect of environ-