uptake and photosynthesis must take place at the cell surface. or pathogens [59,60], may be involved in the trade-offs.
Assembly machinery, primarily composed of ribosomes, is Traits relevant to competitive ability, such as cell size, are
relatively phosphorus-rich and may also depend on cell size, known to change as a result of phenotypic plasticity and
as smaller cells tend to grow faster (‘growth rate hypothesis’ evolutionary adaptation [61]. We have demonstrated that
[32]). Consistent with expectations, competitive abilities for adaptation in response to resource limitation and salt stress
light were negatively associated with cell size, but in contrast can alter competitive traits sufficiently to change the pre-
to expectations, N and P competitive abilities were not. Fur- dicted outcome of competition. Adaptation to different
thermore, we did not find evidence for a trade-off between environments caused competitive traits to diverge and
competitive abilities for nitrogen and phosphorus. enable coexistence. Contrary to our expectations, we found
No evidence for trade-offs in competitive abilities for that coexistence was equally likely among two populations
different resources is in contrast to observations of negative selected in different environments as two populations
multivariate correlations observed on macroevolutionary selected in the same environment. This may be explained
timescales [20]. This runs counter to the idea that population by the fact that even small differences in the magnitude of
genetic variation occurs along the same axes as variation adaptive trait change in the same environment can be suffi-
among species—along ‘genetic lines of least resistance’ [55]. cient to enable predicted coexistence (i.e. under P-limitation,
There are multiple potential reasons for this lack of observed P* for one competitor decreases slightly more than the P*

trade-offs in competitive ability at this scale. The first for the other competitor). The changes in resource ratios


and salt levels represented in our different selection environ- Data accessibility. Data and code are available at https://github.com/
ments are on the same order of magnitude as gradients of JoeyBernhardt/chlamee-r-star at Zenodo (https: //doi.org/10.5281/
resource ratios and salinity in natural environments [62]. zenodo.3698308) and in the Dryad Digital Repository [63]. DNA

: sys ae sequences have been deposited in the Sequence Read Archive