The trade-offs among these traits determine the impact that relative abundances of the major phylotypes (electronic sup-
each decomposer can have on the dynamics of C in soil. For plementary material, figure S1) were not fundamentally
instance, there may be a trade-off between the rate at which different from those of the dominant soil phylotypes from
resources are acquired and the growth efficiency, or C use effi- across the globe [47]. Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria were
ciency, ofa cell: high investments in resource acquisition reduce the major phylotypes in both datasets; Firmicutes and Bacteroi-
the growth efficiency of the cell [44]. Similarly, in environments detes were slightly over-represented in the MetaCyc database
with heterogeneous resources, adaptations to make use of mul- while Acidobacteria and Planctomycetes were under-rep-
tiple resources may have a negative impact on growth rates [8]. resented. The under-representation of Acidobacteria (only 24
It should be borne in mind, however, that the conditions in soil Acidobacteria present in MetaCyc, compared with more than
may limit the range of life-history strategies that can flourish. 5000 Proteobacteria) was the main difference between the bac-

teria in the database and the dominant phylotypes from across
the globe. This was probably due to the fact that Acidobacteria
are notoriously difficult to isolate from soil [48].

(a) Bacterial catabolic breadth, growth rates Having established that the database was reasonably

and phyl ogeny representative, we determined the relationship between degra-
In order to test whether there were indeed trade-offs between dation/utilization/assimilation pathways and phyla, using
catabolic breadth, growth rate and carbon use efficiency, we only strains from phyla for which there were at least 10 entries
analysed the predicted metabolic functions of a number of in our soil bacteria database. The number of pathways varied
bacterial strains found in soils that were stored in the MetaCyc widely across the strains, ranging from 14 to 139, and there
database [45]. We determined the relationship between the were significant differences in the average number of pathways
number of degradation/utilization/assimilation pathways among phyla (between 45 and 70; figure 1). We also checked the
and the 16S rRNA gene copy number for each bacterial strain. number of pathways in strains from rarer phyla and found that