
An interesting theme surrounds a recurring concern for study adults.

preserving odour integrity. To the Batek people of Malaysia, A fuller exploration of olfaction during childhood is pro-
food odours should never be mixed because this would undo vided elsewhere in this issue [45], but we know that olfactory
the work of the deities who made them different [38]. Other learning begins in utero, as very young infants can discriminate
groups have different beliefs resulting in the same principle, odorants associated with aromatic food items to which they
such as the Desana never cooking together ‘male-smelling’ were exposed in amniotic fluid, having been ingested by the
meat and ‘female-smelling’ fish, because this would be tanta- mother before birth [46,47]. Furthermore, odour appears to
mount to adultery [38]. Among other groups, there is similar play a central role in the ability of infants to find and latch
symbolism regarding the mixing of individual body odours. onto the nipple in the critical first hours and days after birth.
For example, among the Yaka of Zaire, a term that means It has been argued [48] that this maternal-infant olfactory
‘smelling one another’ is in fact a description of sexual inter- signalling context represents the most likely opportunity for
course, while the afore-mentioned Tukano-speaking peoples, finding and characterizing a human pheromone, analogous
with their distinctive group odours, believe that marriage to the mammary pheromone of other species [49], precisely
partners should come from different odour categories [32]. because the selective benefit of such a signal is so clear and
Furthermore, according to the Semaq Beri of Indonesia, a vital [50]. Beyond these initial vulnerable days of infanthood,
brother and sister must maintain a sufficient inter-personal it is likely that smell could continue to play a fundamental
distance so that their odours do not mix; if they do, this role not just in learning about novel food items, or avoiding
would be considered to be incest [39]. These latter examples spoiled foods and environmental hazards, but also in the
appear to be consistent with current research on a role for development of social relationships with carers and friends
odour in mediating disassortative mate preferences [40], as and in the shaping of future preferences for sexual partners.

it does in other vertebrate taxa [41]. These social effects may well reach a zenith around puberty,
