this special issue presents novel data that humans regularly (b) Future directions ~=
sniff themselves to sample their own odour [61]. This fasci- The evidence presented here comes from a Western society =
nating observation could suggest that body odours are with no real cultural or linguistic elaboration in the olfactory =
different in kind. Much like body parts—such as hands— domain. It remains an open question as to whether commu- >!
are used to conceptualize and communicate about the nities with developed cultural practices and _ linguistic N
world, people may unconsciously use body odours to resources in this domain would show the same patterns in s
anchor and organize their olfactory cognition, including imagery. Though previous evidence suggests that olfactory S
odour imagery, memory and naming. Importantly our data imagery is difficult across cultures [32], no targeted compari-
suggest that mere sensory exposure is not enough to enhance son with established olfactorily oriented cultures has been
simulation; something else is required. We propose that cases conducted as of yet. It is possible, for example, that in
where olfactory exposure significantly affects imagery likely hunter-gatherer communities, the use, interaction and embo-
occur only occur after deliberate practice, as found with diment of odours in everyday life shapes olfactory cognition
adult professionals (e.g. perfumers, but see [83]); although deeply, even at a representational level. For example, the fact
it has to be said that, even in adult professionals with exten- that some cultures monitor and manipulate odours to avert
sive training, mental imagery for olfaction remains relatively sickness suggests a level of conscious awareness beyond
poor [52,65,84]. what is displayed by lay people in the West. Similarly, we

saw that many communities have developed lexicons for
smells emitted by different parts of the body. If this is some-

(a) Limitations thing children are being enculturated to early in life, perhaps
The present study is exploratory and as such the empirical it deepens the degree of embodiment.

findings ought to be replicated in a larger sample and in differ- One could question whether the low imagery vividness
ent populations. The reported statistics were not corrected for for odours is due to the choice of items used. This seems unli-