are required for inhibition of the proboscis extension response C-bend/slow-rolling) [5,7]. Our results add to the diverse
to potential food [10-12,39]. array of modalities that can elicit rolling from class IV neur-
Our interest here was to develop an assay that challenges ons (heat, harsh touch, noxious light) and raise questions
the barrier of the organism with a simple noxious chemical about how the other classes are involved.
(in this case acid) and that does not necessarily have crosstalk Our CaMPARI calcium imaging experiments indicated
with gustatory responses. Below, we discuss some of the that class I and class III neurons were also activated by acid
implications of our findings with this new assay and their exposure, whereas class II was not. Because our genetic silen-
potential utility. cing experiments indicate that class II and III md neurons are
The md neuron(s) required for the full behavioural also required for acid-evoked behaviour, these data suggest
response to acid are distinct from larval gustatory neurons that class II and III neurons may facilitate rolling behaviour
[44] and have not previously been implicated in taste. That through downstream circuitry, rather than by direct acti-
md neurons are required for responses to acid is suggested vation by acid exposure. This seems possible as multiple
by the fact that the observed behaviour (aversive rolling) is classes of downstream second-order neurons were at least
similar to that observed with noxious heat [4] and noxious partially required for acid-evoked rolling. Furthermore,
mechanical stimuli [4,9]. Indeed, genetic silencing of class recent studies have demonstrated that class II, III and IV
IV md neurons, which are also responsible for aversive roll- neurons share common postsynaptic interneuron partners
ing in response to temperatures above 40°C [4,30] and to implicated in rolling behaviour. For example, class II and
harsh touch [4,8,9], led to a near-complete block of aversive IV neurons connect to DP-ilp7 interneurons to facilitate roll-
rolling behaviour, suggesting that gustatory neurons have ing in response to mechano-nociceptive stimuli [7], while

no role in the response to acid applied to the larval posterior. class II, III and IV neurons connect to Basins [26]. These


basin interneurons mediate ch
