relations that an investigation supports. across sets of data or time points [31]. Ss
According to Franklin-Hall’s account, in investigating a target °Gelfert [33, p. 25] conceives of a mathematical formalism as ‘a com- 3
system S, a theory T; counts as a background theory if it represents bination of a mathematical framework (operator algebra) with a a
a series of features of S, which the system has in virtue of being fundamental physical theory (quantum mechanics), in conjunction
part of a larger class of systems. By contrast, a theory T) counts as with additional assumptions and heuristic rules that are neither
a local theory if it represents something more specific about the com- entailed by fundamental theory nor tailored to any empirical pro-
ponents or organization of the target system S. For example, a theory blem in particular’. In a ‘mature’ mathematical formalism,
about neural signalling counts as a background theory when experi- mathematical resources have evolved from mere shorthands to
menting on the hippocampus, whereas a mechanism schema of the powerful heuristic devices and theoretical tools. Mathematical form-
hippocampus counts as a local theory in this context. So, local the- alisms are also developed in the biosciences; they are sufficiently
ories are typically more detailed accounts of the inner workings general to be applicable to a range of phenomena or systems, but
and organization of the particular object of a scientific investigation. not universal; they come with an empirical interpretation, so they
°For one, the distinction draws attention to the fact that not all theor- amount to more than using the formal language of mathematics.
etical content which might be relevant in designing an exploratory They are an integral part of how new knowledge about the biological
experiment must be uniquely or directly about the particular system objects of investigation is produced and formulated.
under investigation. Sometimes, theories about the class of systems 104 network is called scale-free if the features of the network are
suffice to initiate and conduct exploratory research. Also, the distinc- independent of its size (the number of nodes). The structure of a
tion is useful in highlighting (if somewhat indirectly) that exploratory scale-free network is characterized by a power-law distribution of
experiments are not pursued only in the initial stages of some the number of edges connecting its nodes. In a power-law distri-
research venture. Scientists engage in exploratory research even bution, the number of nodes with a really high number of edges is
when they have theories relevant to the kind of system they investi- much bigger than in a normal law distribution.
gate, but they want to construct or formulate more specific local "The clustering coefficient is a measure of the degree to which nodes
theories. in a graph tend to cluster together. When the connections in a graph
“Focusing on targetless fictional models and hypothetical perspecti- are dense, the clustering coefficient is high.
val models, Massimi [3] argues that sometimes scientific advances The degree of a node in a network is the number of connections it