
auditory cortex [35]. from computational neuroscience, biology and_ ecology,
The final piece of my argument in this paper is to show which indicate that these criteria are applicable to network
how the general theory of topological explanations helps to explanations in all of those areas. More importantly,
unify essential concepts of biological networks. The best because these criteria are not limited to particular classes
way to do so is by considering universal applicability of the of cases or specific areas of biological sciences, they are
three criteria that the theory provides. in principle universally applicable across any sciences
The facticity criterion as it was shown works in both ver- that use network explanations, thus their universal applica-
tical and horizontal modes of topological explanations. Given bility may help to unify network concepts across biological
that topological explanations are non-causal and that coun- sciences.
terfactual dependency relations under horizontal and
vertical modes hold independently from the contingent Data accessibility. This article has no additional data. eS
facts about any particular system, the facticity criterion tells Competing interests. I declare I have no competing interests. S
us how this universally applicable explanation is to be suc- Funding. This research is funded by the European Commission, Hor- -
cessfully used in any particular case, regardless of the area izon 2020 Framework Programme, Excellent Science, Marie =
- Sktodowska-Curie Actions under REA grant agreement no 703662;
of science. : P . : . =
a, . . project: Philosophical Foundations of Topological Explanations (Pro- Ss
The criterion about vertical and horizontal modes of topo- posal acronym: TOPEX) and the project Neuroessentialisme:  ~
logical explanations can be understood also in terms of explication neuroscientifique et diffusion des neurosciences, le cas =
counterfactual dependencies within-the-scale (horizontal) du neurodroit, funded by the Conseil régional Nouvelle-Aquitaine S
and between-the-scales (vertical), intra-modular (horizontal) and Bordeaux Montaigne University. i]
and hierarchical-modular (vertical), or in general in terms Acknowledgements. I am grateful to Claus Hilgetag, Kareem Khalifa, Ss
sop ge . Angela Potochnik, Thomas Polger and Cédric Brun for tremendously bal
of the distinction between local (horizontal) and global (ver- : : : . - N