to which the explanans* and explanandum* have to be approxi- the values of B would have been different. For example,
mately true, and it works the same in both vertical and when applied to a particular case of cognitive controllability,
horizontal explanatory modes.* In short, correct topological the explanation-seeking question is: How and why is the brain

explanations cannot rely on gross misrepresentations of a able to efficiently transition from one state to the other? The


answer proposed ina series of studies [12-14] is that local topo- network and the particular trajectories in the state space, i.e. El

logical properties determine energy requirements for those the explanation tells us in what ways exactly the trajectories
movements ([13], p. 1). Specifically, in recent literature in cogni- in the state space will be affected by the changes of relevant
tive neuroscience [12-15], the problem of cognitive control is topological properties. As opposed to cases of vertical counter-
being treated through the notion of network control. factual dependencies, horizontal counterfactual dependencies
It should be emphasized from the outset that these two hold between variables that are at the same local level in the
notions of control are very different. The notion of cognitive network. Thus, in the horizontal approach, the relationship
control refers to a brain’s dynamics, which can be understood between the explanans and explanandum is more direct: just by
as a neural regional activity that can be elicited by neurofeed- describing the topological properties of the trajectories in the
back in fMRI imaging, or by non-invasive brain stimulation state space we are almost immediately able to understand the
such as TMS (trans-cranial-magnetic stimulation). In this relevant counterfactual dependency relations, without needing
sense, to control means: how to perturb the system in order to appeal to any kind of inferential patterns between different ==
to reach a desired state. By contrast, the notion of network con- levels. This indicates that in the horizontal approach the topo- = >
trol is a purely mathematical notion in network control theory logical explanation has what Kosti¢ [1] calls minimal structure, __
which refers to topological constraints on such perturbations.° where the relationship between the explanans and explanandum — =:
The dependency that the explanation describes in this case is is more direct. =
between the topological properties and cognitive control— The final criterion tells us when to use the vertical and = 5