larger-scale mechanisms. In §2, I show how levels and hierar- notion of level was introduced by Marr [22], who characterized
chy figure centrally in the mechanistic perspective. The flat different levels of inquiry. The appeal to levels in discussions of
nature of network representations is, however, misleading as mechanism is limited to a compositional sense in which com-
the analysis of networks often involves identifying hierarchical ponents, whether characterized structurally or functionally,
organization implicit in networks. A first step in recognizing are constituents of mechanisms. Not any compositional
this is to recognize that clusters can be identified at multiple account, however, gives rise to mechanistic levels—a further
scales, with smaller-scale clusters serving as constituents of condition is that the components work together to generate a
larger-scale clusters. In §3, I will start there but move on to phenomenon. Starting with the mechanism as a whole, ident-
consider how explicitly hierarchical representations of biologi- ified in terms of the phenomenon for which it is responsible,
cal knowledge, such as found in bio-ontologies, are used to the collection of entities that constitute the responsible
interpret networks. In §4, I turn to one recent effort that uses mechanism are at the same level [23,24].
hierarchical representations from bio-ontologies to structure This two-level perspective is expanded into a full hierarchy
artificial neural networks (ANNs) trained to predict pheno- as a result of the fact that the components of a mechanism can
types from genotypes. The resulting network representations be decomposed into their own parts and operations. Thus,
reveal a hierarchy of levels and serve to expand mechanistic there will be multiple levels at which mechanisms themselves
understanding of cell functioning. work together to generate a phenomenon and so constitute
Throughout this paper, I will focus on examples of research higher-level mechanisms. These higher-level mechanisms can
on intracellular networks in the model organism Saccharomyces then interact with other mechanisms to produce yet other
cerevisiae (brewer's yeast), a single-cell eukaryotic organism phenomena. There is, however, an important qualification to
that has been extensively studied. The nodes in these networks this hierarchical account—the notion of level is only defined
represent either genes or proteins and various modes of inter- between a particular mechanism and its constituents. There is
action between them (e.g. epistatic interactions between genes no reason to assume that the constituents of two different parts
or binding between proteins). The lessons, however, are not of a mechanism are themselves at the same level and so there
limited to yeast but apply to network research more broadly. is no basis for identifying levels across the natural world. What
is central to the characterization of mechanisms is that locally