
of MERVL using Crispr/SAM did result in the induction of scribed, they are certainly not limited to that. For example,
the handful of 2C genes analysed (11 genes in total) [47]. metabolic features and chromatin state or extrinsic factors
This indicates that activation of MERVL alone can potentially need to be taken into account. Indeed, hypoxia reduces the
regulate—at least in part—the 2CLC programme. percentage of 2CLC in ESC cultures [18]. Notwithstanding, a
cell’s potency should eventually be determined by its ability to
ivi i ‘do something’ in its natural environment, when transplanted
4. Giv ng pluripotency away back into the respective native context.
The changes in cell fate that reprogramming ESCs to 2CLC The gold standard for testing whether cells in culture are
entail also involve shutting down the pluripotency programme. pluripotent consists of introducing them into morula or blasto-
The extent of this ‘off-switch’ is not yet very clear, but Macfarlan cyst stage embryos and investigating their potential to
and colleagues documented that 2CLC lack detectable protein contribute to the embryo, and most importantly, to the germ-
levels of OCT4 [18]. In fact, analysis of other TF of the pluripo- line [52]. These chimera assays are relatively straightforward
tency-gene regulatory network further demonstrated that this is for ESCs with full pluripotency, since they readily contribute __
not limited to OCT4, but that levels of SOX2, PRDM14, REX1 to all the lineages of the embryo proper, especially when = =
and AP2gamma proteins are also undetectable in 2CLC [39]. more than one cell is injected per chimera. In analogy, there- = 5!
However, their mRNA levels are only slightly reduced or fore, totipotent cells should be tested in vivo. However, these = &
unchanged, indicating that shutting down the pluripotency experiments pose a conceptual problem, if one considers that
network is regulated also at the translational level. totipotent cells are those that can give rise to a full organism =
Importantly, analysis of an intermediate cellular state without the need of carrier cells. Often however, totipotency
characterized by the expression of the TF Zscan4 but the is called positive when cells in culture are put back into late S
absence of MERVL transcription, indicated that the pluripo- 8-cell stage embryos, and they are seen to occupy the trophec- N
tency network is down-regulated before the transition into a toderm layer of the blastocyst, and with more stringency, when -S
2CLC (MERVL+) state. These experiments led us to conclude cells are seen in the placenta of post-implantation embryos &
that cells must exit pluripotency before committing to the (figure 2). In the field, these experiments are generally done *