containing structures also referred to as blastocyst-like. As in (c), a molecular analysis and exploration of lineage markers should be performed. In (ef), nuclear transfer (NT)
strategies are shown. (e) The rationale behind using somatic cell nuclear transfer as an assay to test cellular plasticity, based on the observations that nuclei derived from early
embryos show a highest success in generating embryos and pups upon cloning, as opposed to pluripotent stem cells. Accordingly, 2CLC nuclei show a higher success in producing
clone embryos upon NT [31]. SCNT, somatic cell nuclear transfer. In (f), the schematic of an NT experiment, including the potential outcomes and implications, is shown.

6. Supporting developmental programmes programmes [4]. We are now also in the position to directly
address whether retrotransposon expression is functionally
In all, work in the past years has highlighted that retrotrans- important for developmental progression. For example, work

posons have the potential to support developmental in the Wysocka lab has used dCas9 and Crispr/Cas9 strategies


to show that specific LTRs are in fact responsible for regulating developmental programmes, which in the longer term also

full transcriptional induction of genes expressed in human dramatically impact the evolutionary path.
ESCs [60]. Likewise, by manipulating the chromatin of long inter- 3
spersed nuclear elements (LINE-1s) at their endogenous loci, our Data accessibility. This article has no additional data. z
own work has indicated that their transcriptional activation Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests. 2
regulates chromatin accessibility in the early mouse embryo [61]. Funding. Work in the Torres-Padilla laboratory is funded by the Helm- 3
Importantly, recent work has documented clear new holtz Association, the German Research Council (CRC 1064) and =
insertions of LINE-1 in neurons of human beings, indicating H2020 Marie-Curie Actions ITN EpiSystem and ITN ChromDesign. =
current somatic transposition [62] and new roles for LINE-1 Acknowledgements. M.-E.T.-P. acknowledges past and current members E
in nucleolar organization during development have emerged of her laboratory for stimulating discussions and for building on =
[63]. It is therefore very exciting and of utmost importance the concepts laid down in this oP Over the past years and s
thanks A. Burton for critical reading of the manuscript, T. Nakatani =