

world is rather composed of entangled, self-sustained and technological fix that could allow humanity to regain control | 10 |

interdependent dynamical processes among which we isolate of its environment. Anderson [64], one of the most extreme
entities by observing them over particular spatial and supporters of this position, explains that ‘the new availability
temporal scales. of huge amounts of data, along with the statistical tools to

This new paradigm calls for a rethinking of core concepts crunch these numbers, offers a whole new way of under-
of biology, from the role of DNA to the concept of biological standing the world. Correlation supersedes causation, and
evolution. Following Maturana & Varela [25], it also leads to science can advance even without coherent models, unified
a rethinking of cognition as the prerogative of an autonomous theories, or really any mechanistic explanation at all’. In
entity, defined as a self-sustained network of processes, addition to the fact that this assertion is false from a math-
which maintains its internal organization (the structure of ematical point of view [65], it could also mislead about the ==>
this network) when it faces perturbation from its environ- appropriate measures to be taken to meet the challenges of = 5
ment (the entities relative to which it is differentiated). We our times. The hope that new technologies alone will make =
have cognition when the activity of this network of processes it possible to collectively master the world ignores that =
switches from one eigenbehaviour to the other or when its these technologies only implement one aspect of cognition.'® Ss
structure is modified by learning. Learning occurs when a Most if not all LA implementations are heteronomous, theydo — =:
perturbation leads to the modification of the internal organiz- not realize operational closure and cannot adapt to environ- 5!
ation of the autonomous entity, but changes are kept small ments with open phase states. The risk is that their 5
enough so that the self-sustainability of the new network of ubiquitous deployment in all aspects of our daily lives =
processes is preserved. This immediately raises the question could engrave past and inappropriate collective behaviours = &
of ‘perception’—as a mode of interaction between an auton- into code. These technologies may improve our collective =
omous entity and its environment [62]—and what this decision-making processes and make them less flexible and >