
prob. = 0.0005
phenotype

Figure 6. The challenge: construct the probability distribution of future populations (represented by frequency distributions), given the current population distri-
bution and patterns of fitness and transmission. (Online version in colour.)

Here, n is the number of individuals and f is a transform vari- yield a set of terms, each of which corresponds to a different
able. The bar indicates frequency mean. Thus, for a group of possible distribution of phenotypes, multiplied by the
three individuals, one with phenotype ¢=1.5 and two probability of that particular distribution arising (figure 8).
with phenotype ¢=4, equation (5.1) would be: (3-((1/ The reason for adding all of these layers is that we now
3)e!F 4 (2/3)e")). have a compact way to write the distribution of distributions
The fact that all populations are finite, and the stipulation that we can follow from one generation to the next. We will
that the phenotype, ¢, is finite, ensure that all moments exist; see below that this is easier than one might expect.
meaning that the moment generating function in equation (Equation (5.2) is analogous to a Fourier transform of a
(5.1) is a compact way to capture the population distribution. Laplace transform. Note that the transform variables f and
The next step is to capture the probability distribution of p do not correspond to any biological process. They serve
possible populations. This is accomplished by defining a to keep the different distributions and phenotypes distinct.
characteristic function of the moment generating function, We will see below that they also allow us to derive special
which I will refer to as the population transform. cases, including the Price equation, from our main result.)
. —— Equation (5.2) can uniquely describe any probability dis-
The population transform : &4, =e?" 6.2) tribution of frequency distributions—whether for an entire
Here, p is the probability transform variable, and i = V—1. population or for any subset of individuals. For example,
The hat denotes the expected value over all possible pheno- the possible fitness values for an individual j (w;) and the
