ability to learn from consequences, then the effect will be to ing or debate. Thus, describing the phonemic contrast system of — >!
shift average cultural practices in the direction that increases a native language as something that is inherited might be N
genetic fitness. Biased average transmission, in effect, provides reasonable: before you are a fully competent speaker, you are cS
a universal force of attraction towards practices of the kinds that in descendant mode; and once you have learned, you become a
work adaptively over evolutionary time, or at least, a source of available as a potential ancestor. It is not clear that the idealiz-
resistance against cultural practices that are too outlandish from ation is adequate more generally, though. Skilled performance,
the perspective of past genetic fitness. Biased average trans- moral judgement and political preferences can change dramati-
mission means, in effect, that although patterns of culture end cally over the course of an individual's lifetime, exactly because
up containing practices that are good for genetic fitness, it is there is constant reshaping and discussion going on between
not cultural evolution that is doing the fitness-enhancing multiple individuals, none of whom is wholly an ancestor or
work; it is prior genetic selection on the cognitive mechanisms wholly a descendant. The transformative effects of human cog-
that transform culture. Culture effectively drops out of the nition—that which in equation (2.1) we tried to capture with the
equation, an intermediate variable between the adaptive beha- average transmission term—are in fact produced in multiple
viours and their true organizational source [40]. Much of the interactions across multiple minds. The problem with seeing
debate between cultural evolutionary theory on the one hand cultural influence as inheritance is that the social part gets
and evolutionary psychology on the other, through the restricted to the once-in-a-lifetime, ancestor-to-descendant
window of the Price equation, is a debate about whether the transmission. The cognitive part gets restricted to the guided
first or second term on the right-hand side of (3.2) is more variation individuals may apply within their own skulls.
important in explaining patterned human behaviour. What is missing is the dialogic activity underlying the (constant,

ongoing, inter-personally negotiated) transformation of cultural
content. This dialogic part may matter for the most distinctive

(c) Can culture be said to be a syste of inheritance? aspects of human culture and institutions. It may turn out to
The Price equation is usually thought of as defining the matter even in some cases that we usually think of as inheri-