complications. This viewpoint, in other words, is more study of natural selection, and the nature of random environ- a
likely to help us out of a mess we did not realize we were ments could make that a little longer, but does not change the
already in, than to create new and unnecessary problems. underlying logic.

There are technical limitations to the Crewe et al. [3] This section shows that fitnesses and reproductive values
paper, which they discuss, along with comparisons of this are not brute facts about the world. Rather, they depend on
result with the uses of reproductive value by Tuljapurkar assumptions that we make about the population and how it
[37] and Rousset & Ronce [9] and Rousset [8], and see also interacts now and will interact in the future. These are work-
the discussion by Lion [7]. They also correct previous work ing assumptions, made because we have to, but also because
that used Williams’ reproductive value as fitness. It is likely the operation of natural selection depends on and is a
the limitations can be relaxed. The possible non-existence of response to the whole generalized environment. Rather
reproductive values arises because mathematical theorems than hide these assumptions by pretending fitnesses are
proving existence require simple situations so they can be brute facts, it is more useful to acknowledge the role of the
absolutely sure. Once the matrices depend on the population working assumptions, which would even allow us to use
state, this goes beyond the scope of the ergodic theorems I am and contrast different sets of working assumptions.
aware of. However, the general power of flattening of matrix
products towards a rank of 1 suggests that biologists can (c) Total population reproductive value

reasonably continue these explorations without waiting for
formal results on the subject.

One implication will be discussed here. This treatment of
uncertainty shows that individuals should be expected to
maximize their expected fitness, and in particular they
show that the variability in fitness does not affect the