*As explained in the electronic supplementary, text, this maximum-likelihood estimate (MLE) was defined as a limit, and did not take a single fixed value. The
pair (a = 1114.675, 8 = 50000.00) was used to approximate the MLE in figures 2b,d and 3e.

the full data with corresponding values of LDso and CDs9. Our (c) Impact of host-specific variability in abrasion depth
results are consistent with previous findings that L. interrogans Initially, we assumed the per-leptospire probability of cross-
strain Fiocruz L1-130 had a low LDs» (approx. 10 bacteria) [17] ing the skin or mucosa (p.) would be roughly equivalent
when hamsters were infected by the IP route, while the strain for all individuals of the same species. Thus, p. took a
had a lower CDs (approx. 10° bacteria) than previously single, fixed value in the basic model, which provided good
reported (10° bacteria) when rats were infected by the IP fits to most experimental data (figure 3). The one notable
route [24]. Of note, the abraded skin model showed similar exception was the basic model’s poor fit to data from exper-
results to IP route in hamsters and rats, with LDs9 and CDso imental inoculation of hamsters with abraded skin (figure 3c).
between 10° and 10° leptospires. By contrast, the strain had We hypothesized that the poor fit could have arisen if
an LDso between 10° and 10” when hamsters were inoculated individual hamsters in fact showed different levels of resistance
by the conjunctival route, which was similar to the LDso to leptospires, perhaps owing to microanatomical differences
observed when inoculations were administered on shaved in the depth of their abrasions in the laboratory. To test this
intact skin. Furthermore, a high infecting inoculum dose (10° hypothesis, we built a more complicated model (the mixture
bacteria) was required to cause death in hamsters when inocu- model), which incorporated the possibility of hamster-to-
lations were administered on unshaved intact skin. Taken hamster variability in the abraded skin’s resistance to leptos-
together, those results indicated that intact skin is a major pires. This mixture model provided a much better fit to the
barrier against leptospiral infection in both acute hamster data (AAIC (Akaike information criterion) = 25.47; figure 3c).
and chronic rat animal models for leptospirosis. Moreover, a Within the mixture model, p, did not take a single value.
simple abrasion of the epidermis reduced the LDso by an Instead, the model assumed p, values followed a probability
average factor of 10°. distribution from the beta family, whose shape was deter-
mined by fitted parameters a and £ (table 2). This fitted
distribution of p, values can be interpreted as the distribution