specific simulations but with smoothly varying inhomo- as indicating that food quality is sufficiently high [13,32,33].
geneous food distributions, we confirmed that setting npr-1 This type of swarm intelligence may be particularly valuable
and N2 feeding rates equal abolishes N2 agents’ foraging in the absence of sophisticated communication systems or
advantage for all but the lowest y values (y <1), (figure 6b,c). long-range interactions.
Interestingly, the crossover of foraging advantage that was pre- In contrast with the minimal model, our more realistic
viously seen in the minimal model (figure 3b) now re-emerges strain-specific simulations show that the solitary N2 agents
(figure 6c), with N2 agents having an advantage in environ- perform better than the social mpr-1 agents in all tested food
ments with uniformly random or slightly patchy food (y <1) distribution environments regardless of patchiness. Assuming
and npr-1 agents performing better in environments with fast food depletion as a fitness advantage, these results agree
patchy food (y>1). These results uncouple the dominating with a previous study reporting that the social strains are less
effect of N2’s higher feeding rate on the overall foraging success fit in laboratory conditions [34]. Moreover, a recent study
from other behavioural parameters and demonstrate that an shows that the observed fitness advantage of N2 over npr-1
advantage of npr-1 remains under patchy food conditions if worms is in fact dissociable from their collective phenotypes

not for its lower feeding rate. [22]. Indeed, we show that N2’s better foraging performance


may be more attributable to its higher feeding rate than to its
foraging strategy. Therefore, even though our strain-specific
model suggests that collective foraging is not a more efficient
strategy, at least under our tested food distribution conditions,
our minimal model and modified strain-specific model (with
equal feeding rates and smoothly varying inhomogeneous
food) indicate that this remains a theoretical possibility.
