guides and modulates the structures, dynamics and forms domain of applicability/validity, and to find the minimal
of collective behaviours [38,39]. Consequently, the experimen- set of components that must be integrated to improve the

tal work performed under laboratory-controlled conditions model.


On the other hand, if the mathematical model is able to individual-based or agent-based models. Such approaches | 4 |

reproduce the experimental behaviour of interest in a satisfac- can be split into two classes depending on whether a discrete
tory way, then one can modify the parameters to investigate lattice is used to describe space or not. Cellular and lattice-gas = S
what would happen in an experiment if a biological modifi- cellular automaton models are examples of on-lattice models z
cation is introduced, prior to performing the experiments. [34]. Though on- and off-lattice models operate at the same 3
Restricted to the collective dynamics this theme issue is focus- spatial scale, the fact that space is described in different “S
ing on, a key question one can ask the model aims at ways might lead to artefacts that need to be quantified. So, = =
understanding how many changes at the individual level it is natural to ask whether such models yield similar results S
one should introduce in order to control the collective behav- and to what extent. This is the aim of the contribution by ©
iour in the desired manner, how many leaders are necessary Nava-Sedeio et al. [57]. Defining prototypic on- and off-lat- =
to control a group of uninformed followers, and how versatile tice models of polar and apolar alignment, they show how = 5
and adjustable should the leadership role be to guarantee a to obtain an on-lattice from an off-lattice model for collective =
collectively robust system. migration based on velocity alignment. For the purposes >
Over the past years, a multitude of mathematical models mentioned above, the macroscopic limits derived from the Ss
for studying collective migration have been developed and two model approaches are also compared, highlighting = =
are presented in this theme issue. Many of these models are similarities and differences. =
derived from physical systems and adapted for the study of An important off-lattice model class for the study of col- =
collective biological migration. For example, the cellular lective migration is based on the idea of self-propelled =