Multispecies dynamics are located within the planar space. catch at least one target. In this respect, figure 7b(i) shows s
The values of the non-dimensional parameters characterizing that the predation time fp decreases upon increments in the &
the behavioural rules of the group of prey remain unaltered attraction stimulus of the prey (with respect to the other be-
with respect to the previous section, given their indepen- havioural inputs), until stabilizing around a non-
dency from both time and individual specificity, ie. 3; = 1, dimensional threshold value just below 4. Half-moon evasive
drep = 1, datign = 8 and descape = dattr = 30 for any i=1,..., 99 patterns in the case of a predator pointing the centre of the
and f. For the sake of simplicity, we also assume that the target cluster has also been obtained in the work by Lee
predator has the same physiological characteristics as its and colleagues [36] which will be reviewed in more details
prey: we therefore fix pred = datty = 30 and Bjo9(f) = 1 for in the conclusive section.
any f. A too large repulsion stimulus (i.e. atP > ailisn =
The group of prey is initially arranged within the same aft — a®cPe) has a negative effect in the case of not confused
round area of diameter equal to 6 used in the previous set predator: in order to maintain a comfort space, some prey
of simulations, with random positions and velocity direc- may in fact turn back and go in the direction of the hunter,
tions. The predator is initially placed at a significant which is therefore facilitated in its purpose (see the left-
distance from the cluster of individuals, however with at bottom panel in figure 5). Increasing differences between
least a prey within its hunting region, i.e. Niq9(f = 0) # 0. prey preference for interagent avoidance and the other behav-
Furthermore, the initial orientation of the hunter points to ioural stimuli reduce the time needed by the predator to reach
the centre of mass of the group of targets (figure 2c). The a target, as captured by the central plot in figure 7b. Also in
predator is finally assumed to catch a target when their this case a threshold value for f, emerges, which is close to
relative non-dimensional distance drops below 10°. 3. The confused predator is instead not able to take advan-
The dynamics of the heterogenous system are then tage of this prey phenomenology, as captured by the inset
numerically studied upon variations of (i) predator hunting i3 in figure 5.
strategy and (ii) hierarchy of prey behavioural preferences The prey group safely moves away from both types
which are quantified, as seen, by the weights a”, being of predator when they are able to synchronize their move-
() € {rep, align, attr, escape}. In particular, we hereafter ment, regardless of their spacing and escape stimulus (ie.