edly, we found that mirror-sensory synaesthetes scored higher instance, in the study by Young et al. [25], movie clips with
than controls on the Empathic Concern subscale of the Interper- strong content were used and differences were found in the res-
sonal Reactivity Index (IRI) and on the total IRI score, supporting piration rate of vicarious pain responders and controls—the
previous reports of enhanced (emotional) empathy in mirror- stimuli also all contained respiratory events, which may have
sensory synaesthetes [1,18,19]. We note that all our participants stimulated this effect. In our study, the physical pictures con-

were female; hence, these conclusions concern females. dition resulted in a group effect for the arousal ratings which


was absent for the emotional faces condition, suggesting that did not score higher than non-synaesthetes on Personal Distress | 10 |

physical stimuli affect synaesthetes differentially while in the IRI questionnaire. An alternative interpretation for
emotional stimuli do not. The fact remains, however, that we enhanced prosocial behaviour in mirror-sensory synaesthesia
did observe a differential effect on the subjective ratings of relates to the reported differential self-other distinction
synaesthetes that were induced even in the absence of strong [21,23,63]: self-other merging could lead to greater personal dis-
physiological effects. Hence, we suggest that in mirror-sensory comfort when observing others in pain, in turn accounting for
synaesthesia, cognitive processes play a more important role in enhanced empathic and altruistic behaviour [64].
mediating the impact of synaesthesia than physiological Several synaesthetes and controls donated more than the
mechanisms. expected amount of money in the Dictator’s game (€5, half ©
Our results strongly suggest that empathy, the sensitivity to the total amount). This generosity could be interpreted as =
other people’s situation, drives the subjective impact of mirror- an actual extreme altruistic act, but it could also be inter- = 5
sensory synaesthesia, given that both stronger empathy and preted as a denial to fully play the game (e.g. because ofa = =
stronger synaesthesia led to stronger effects on the subjective lack of trust in the anonymity of the set-up). We therefore =
ratings. Moreover, synaesthetes score higher than controls on repeated the analysis excluding the participants who donated __
the total IRI score and the Empathic Concern subscore. This more than €5 as a verification of the robustness of the result. =: