
range (table 1) [42]. Haemin had no significant inhibitory effect. responded to the mass of a haem b as found in myoglobin for

As there was no evidence for the formation of glutathionylated instance (figure 2b). In order to test whether AtGSTU8 is able
products, it was suggested that porphyrin binding relies on the to bind PPIX, we have incubated the apo-protein, that was
ligandin properties of GSTs [42,43]. In fact, these GSTs were obtained by expressing it in minimal medium and extensive
reported as preventing the non-enzymatic autoxidation of pro- dialysis, with an excess of PPIX. Analytical gel filtration exper-
toporphyrinogen and reducing the oxidative degradation of iments performed using both the apo-protein and the PPIX-
haemin. The observed competitive and non-competitive inhi- incubated protein showed the presence of a major peak eluted
bitions with GSH and CDNB, respectively, suggested that at around 14 ml, a volume corresponding to an apparent mol-
porphyrins were bound to the G-site. In following studies, it ecular mass of ca44kDa that we interpreted as dimers

was noted that the overexpression in E. coli of two maize (figure 2c). The fact that AtGSTU8 and PPIX co-eluted at the
GSTUs, ZmGSTU1 and ZmGSTU2 to a lesser extent, but not same volume indicated that PPIX was bound to the protein. =
of ZmGSTU3, ZmGSTFI and ZmGSTF3, perturbed tetrapyrrole Then, we sought to determine the dissociation constant (Kg) =
metabolism causing a reduction in haem B levels and an of AtGSTU8 towards PPIX but also haematin and haemin = 3'
accumulation of porphyrin precursors (uroporphyrin, pentacar- (iron-hydroxylated and iron-chloride forms of haem b, respect- >
boxyl porphyrin, coproporphyrin and _ glutathionylated ively) using tryptophan fluorescence quenching titrations. We =
harderoporphyrin) [41]. Similarly, the expression of AtGSTU7 included two additional proteins, the GSTU1 from maize and 3
and AtGSTU19 in E. coli allowed their purification with proto- GSTU19 from A. thaliana, for which an interaction with por- =
porphyrin- and harderoporphyrin-glutathione conjugates, phyrin derivatives was already reported [38,41]. The 35
respectively [38]. Expression of strep-tagged proteins in planta fluorescence of these proteins was quenched by adding increas- x
(Arabidopsis or tobacco) neither perturbed the tetrapyrrole ing concentrations of porphyrin derivatives as shown for S
metabolism nor allowed for fishing of porphyrin molecules, haematin and AtGSTU8 (figure 2d). By fitting the different S
likely because of their cytosolic localization [38,41]. However, curves obtained to the equation of a hyperbola, we determined