

GSTF/U heterodimers, were able to bind PPIX but also other In addition to the AtGSTU8 polypeptide detected at the

porphyrin precursors such as coproporphyrin, uroporphyrin expected theoretical molecular mass of 26 777.2 Da, an isotopic

and Mg-protoporphyrin with Kg values in the low micromolar massif with an m/z of 616.182 Da was also detected, which cor-

range (table 1) [42]. Haemin had no significant inhibitory effect. responded to the mass of a haem b as found in myoglobin for

As there was no evidence for the formation of glutathionylated instance (figure 2b). In order to test whether AtGSTU8 is able
products, it was suggested that porphyrin binding relies on the to bind PPIX, we have incubated the apo-protein, that was
ligandin properties of GSTs [42,43]. In fact, these GSTs were obtained by expressing it in minimal medium and extensive
reported as preventing the non-enzymatic autoxidation of pro- dialysis, with an excess of PPIX. Analytical gel filtration exper-
toporphyrinogen and reducing the oxidative degradation of iments performed using both the apo-protein and the PPIX-
haemin. The observed competitive and non-competitive inhi- incubated protein showed the presence of a major peak eluted
bitions with GSH and CDNB, respectively, suggested that at around 14 ml, a volume corresponding to an apparent mol-
porphyrins were bound to the G-site. In following studies, it ecular mass of ca44kDa that we interpreted as dimers

was noted that the overexpression in E. coli of two maize (figure 2c). The fact that AtGSTU8 and PPIX co-eluted at the
GSTUs, ZmGSTU1 and ZmGSTU2 to a lesser extent, but not same volume indicated that PPIX was bound to the protein. =
of ZmGSTU3, ZmGSTFI and ZmGSTF3, perturbed tetrapyrrole Then, we sought to determine the dissociation constant (Kg) =
metabolism causing a reduction in haem B levels and an of AtGSTU8 towards PPIX but also haematin and haemin = 3'
accumulation of porphyrin precursors (uroporphyrin, pentacar- (iron-hydroxylated and iron-chloride forms of haem b, respect- >
boxyl porphyrin, coproporphyrin and _ glutathionylated ively) using tryptophan fluorescence quenching titrations. We =