used indicator to study mitochondrial retrograde signalling signalling, both being stimulated by either the same signals or
[45,50,51]. AOX is a cyanide-insensitive terminal oxidase in mito- component (e.g. translation) or shared components involved
chondria that increases in abundance at a transcript and protein in transduction or execution (e.g. SAL1). While mitochondrial
level in response to a variety of perturbations, including genetic retrograde signalling could also be classified into biogenic and
mutations, nutrient availability and oxidative stresses [52-56]. In operational levels, to date all the studies on mitochondrial retro-
Arabidopsis, AOX1a has been used as a key marker of mitochon- grade signalling would be classified as operational, as they are
drial retrograde regulation, since the transcript abundance can carried out in response to internal or external stimuli during
be induced in response to mitochondrial stresses caused by anti- vegetative growth. While it would be extremely interesting to __
mycin A (AA) or monofluoroacetate (MFA), which inhibit study, mitochondrial biogenic control, unlike photosynthetic =
mitochondrial electron transport and the tricarboxylic acid function mitochondrial function, is extremely important for — 5!
(TCA) cycle, respectively [57,58]. However, AA also inhibits seed germination, and a ‘burst’ of mitochondrial biogenesis a
photosynthetic electron transport [59-61]. This suggests that a does take place as one of the earliest events in germination =
retrograde signal triggered by the inhibition of chloroplastidic 70,71]. In fact, many mitochondrial proteins are encoded by = &
electron transport activity also contributes to the induction of small gene families where some isogenes display preferential iat
AOXz1a [32], and it has been shown that AOX plays a crucial expression at a specific stage of germination [72], and mutations >
role in maintaining photosynthesis under high light or drought of these genes often result in greatly altered seedling mor- N
conditions [62,63]. One model suggests that this protection at phology or lethality [70]. Thus, to our knowledge, no studies s
least in part comes from maintaining photorespiration and have investigated retrograde signalling during mitochondrial 3
export of reducing equivalents from chloroplasts by the biogenesis.
malate/oxaloacetate shuttle [64]. As a variety of other studies Analyses of transcriptome signatures for mitochondrial and
showed that AOX expression is also increased by high light chloroplastic responses revealed a variety of induced genes
stress and genetic lesions affecting chloroplast activity [15,36], encoding proteins localized not only to mitochondria or chloro-
it needs to be noted that AOX is induced by both mitochondrial plasts but also to other cell compartments [73]. This is not
and chloroplast perturbation. Thus, additional models for mito- surprising as alterations of mitochondrial or chloroplast function
chondrial signalling responding specifically to mitochondrial will affect the whole plant cell. Given this global impact and the