they perceive these individuals as more bonded. with the experimenter (synchrony manipulation) or at their
These studies paint a clear picture of synchrony’s prosocial own pace (control condition). We chose this manipulation
effects. Not all studies have replicated these effects [41], and because it has been used in previous research to show that syn-
there are some conditions where synchrony does not help per- chrony can facilitate cooperation [8,9] and formidability [58],
formance, such as in complex tasks where group members and we wanted to test whether the same manipulation that
need to fulfil diverse and specialized roles [63,64]. Nevertheless, spurs prosocial behaviour could also have detrimental effects
meta-analyses suggest that synchrony can increase cohesion, on creativity. After the manipulation, participants wrote a colla-
cooperation and coordination between group members [65- borative story as a group, which two coders assessed for
67]. Some studies even suggest that synchrony can have broad creativity and complexity. Coders were blind to condition
effects on prosociality that stretch beyond one’s own ingroup when rating these stories (see the electronic supplementary
to strangers and outgroup members [31,34,56,68]. Taken material). We used latent profile analysis [75] to examine the
together, this research generally supports the view that syn- effect of condition on story ratings while accounting for the
chrony is functional for communities. fact that multiple participants contributed to the stories within
each group.

We found that synchrony had the expected negative effect
on creativity. Groups that had marched synchronously

(b) The neglected dark side of synchrony: effects of

synchrony on conformity and groupthink around campus wrote less creative stories than groups that
The functionalist perspective on synchrony focuses exclusively marched at their own pace (table 1 and figure 1). Neither
on the benefits of synchronous rituals for groups. Improved the complexity of stories nor the length of stories (word
cooperation and cohesion can indeed be adaptive for a group, count) varied based on condition, demonstrating the unique
lending the group an advantage in situations that would require effect of synchrony on suppressing creativity. Stories by syn-