this claim. We note, however, that only a few such special factor that may produce dysphoric or euphoric rituals. A wed-
item variables were included in the database and, therefore, ding, for example, is frequently described by its participants
avoid drawing any strong conclusions. and patients as being positive, though the participants also
The factor analysis suggests that negative and euphoric describe the experience of the event as provoking anxiety. Simi-
elements are not oppositional but orthogonal within rituals larly, even dysphoric rituals (such as hazings or initiations)

(the correlation within each ritual for intensity scores on peak eventually give way to relief and may be experienced, or


evaluated in hindsight, as positive [42]. All of this is to illustrate These countries were selected as they are geographically and 5 |

the point that positive and negative affect can coexist within a culturally distinct, with rituals that revolve predominantly
ritual and may, in fact, become more pronounced after the around Christian, Hindu and Buddhist/Shinto traditions,
ritual as individuals reflect on their experience [42]. Atkinson respectively. Pragmatically, they also have urban populations
& Whitehouse [5] demonstrated negative correlations between that are easily accessible via online data collection platforms.
emotional arousal and frequency, but as previously discussed, The samples represent a mix of population contexts, with the
this relationship varied between euphoric and dysphoric arou- US participants providing a mix of non-religious and religious,
sal overall. Taken together, these findings suggest that any Indian participants predominantly representing Hinduism,
model that attempts to quantify rituals as expressed along a and Japanese participants demonstrating an orthopraxic mix
single axis of emotional arousal (where dysphoric and eupho- of non-religious and Buddhist/Shinto. Although there is inevi- = >
ric affect are treated as oppositional poles) is underspecified. tably some overlap and cultural cross-fertilization between = 5
This relates to an ongoing debate among emotion researchers these countries, including in seasonal ritual celebrations (e.g. =
(see [43-45]) as to whether negative and positive affect are Diwali in the US and Christmas in Japan), we anticipated =
bipolar or independent [46,47]. Our results align with the sum- that broadly they represent a diverse collection of ritual = _
mary presented by Schimmack [48] that positive and negative environments. Moreover, we concur with the anthropologist = =: