to follow the rules, and (ii) one expects others to expect one psychology
to follow them [9]. These expectations are grounded in an These aspects of scripted interactions are clearly connected
underlying norm psychology that seems to appear early in to human adaptations for living in groups [23]. In social
development [10]. Indeed, children as young as 3 years of psychology, these phenomena are often described in terms of
age spontaneously attach normative rules to an arbitrary attitudes towards ‘ingroups’ versus ‘outgroups’ [24], but
sequence of acts that they learn, when they try to transmit it such attitudes are themselves the outcome of a broader set of
to other children [11]. Young children also react to violations evolved mechanisms, that allow humans to build and maintain
of such ‘norms’ even if they have no detrimental practical con- coalitions [25,26].
sequences [12]. Even though young children are sensitive to the Human coalitional psychology consists in a set of evolved
difference between mere conventions (that could be different in mechanisms designed to garner support from conspecifics,
different places) and moral rules (that, in their view, could not organize and maintain alliances, and increase an alliance’s
be different) [13], they do not conclude that conventions are chance of success against rival coalitions. This psychology is acti-
therefore optional. The fact that ‘elsewhere people do things vated when conflicts or cooperation between non-kin go beyond
differently’ does not for them entail that ‘you may violate the a dyad [27]. It allows interactions to scale up to large numbers of
norny [10]. individuals in highly similar manner, regardless of whether the
We would expect scripted interactions to be all the more alliance in question is construed in ethnic, racial, moral, or politi-
culturally successful, as they include material that activates cal terms [28]. Coalitional psychology allows human beings to
this normative psychology, as is often the case in forms of entertain the notion of groups of any size as agents with beliefs,
interaction identified as ‘rituals’. The latter are culturally trans- intentions and memories [29]. The evolutionary background
mitted, to the extent that individuals are motivated to reiterate (males engaging in group defence and inter-group conflict,
past instances, and do it in (roughly) the same way. Prescrip- women having to form alliances with unrelated females) would
tions formulated as norms (e.g. ‘one must use a black ox, only explain why men and women typically build different kinds of
from a non-royal clan’) would enhance the motivation to alliances (recruiting large groups for specific goals, and cultivat-

replicate the behaviours in detail. ing durable small-scale cooperation, respectively) [30,31].