soil carbon processes have focused on the carbon concentration declines in large predator populations, grazing pressure has
or density of top soil layers, without accounting for the effects been elevated in many coastal wetland ecosystems [9]. For
of consumers on soil vertical/lateral erosion or accretion (e.g. example, overfishing has been shown to elevate grazing by

[41]), or have focused on large-bodied herbivores such as herbivorous crabs in New England [44] and by periwinkle


snails in the southeastern USA [45]. Our results suggest that ANPP and LDP were much higher than all other ecological fac-

elevated grazing pressure may lead to reductions in the tors). Ignoring consumer control in Earth system models can
amount of carbon stored in coastal wetlands, compromising therefore result in considerable deviations of model predictions
the capacity of these ecosystems to help mitigate climate from empirical observations. Incorporating consumer control
change. In fact, in extreme cases, loss of predators can interact into Earth system models, nevertheless, might not be as
with abiotic stressors (e.g. drought and nitrogen enrichment) to straightforward as physical variables such as temperature and
lead to runaway grazing by herbivores, complete denuding of precipitation. As a kind of biotic interactive process, the effects
coastal wetlands, and massive loss of carbon [14,34,46]. There- of consumers on the carbon cycle are often variable with consu-
fore, to halt further loss of carbon stocks, coastal wetland mer species and functional traits and are also likely to be more
managers not only need to restore hydrology and vegetation responsive to changes in environmental factors (e.g. tempera-
and control pollutant and nutrient input, but also need to be ture; [16]). Despite potential challenges, accurate predictions
aware of the potential importance of maintaining healthy of climate change and ecosystem dynamics cannot be achieved
food webs [3]. The latter could be achieved either directly or without fully recognizing the profound impacts of consumers
indirectly by controlling environmental factors that mediate and human-driven alterations in food webs on the cycling
herbivore and predator populations, wherever appropriate. of carbon in ecosystems. It is hoped that this synthesis
We encourage future studies to design more specific measures will motivate further efforts toward consumer-inclusive predic-
and test how best to manage herbivores and predators across tions of changes in Earth’s climate and ecosystems, and