'=

ongoing survey schemes are properly valued [23], even as have BOLD barcodes but no OBIS records. Several of these
novel exploration is planned. At the same time, our quantifi- are parasites, which we know are not well recorded in
cation exercise can help to identify groups of species where a OBIS (e.g. Schistocephalus solidus, 718 barcodes; Anguillico-
little additional research effort in one area would quickly loides crassus, 508 barcodes) but there are free-living marine
result in a more valuable dataset. One candidate set of species species too, such as the Gastropod mollusc Littoraria sinensis
might be those that are frequently observed but poorly rep- (257 barcodes) and the Copepod Calanoides natalis (183 bar-
resented in other databases. For instance, 1216 species have codes). Accessing the specimen data from BOLD using the
more than 1000 OBIS records but fewer than 10 GenBank bold R package [73] for these two species reveals that none
nucleotides; and over half of the 3533 species with more of the L. sinensis specimens have information in the latitude
than 1000 OBIS occurrences are either not assessed by the and longitude fields, but full geographical information is
IUCN (1876 species) or data-deficient (82 species). The fact available for 227 specimens for Calanoides natalis. Although
that almost 90% (3163) of these species have DNA barcodes none of these locations are currently recorded in OBIS,
in BOLD is encouraging, however, suggesting considerable some are in GBIF, highlighting the often complex pipelines
potential for an increasing role for molecular studies to from data providers to global data aggregators. Improving
address a wide range of questions in marine ecology [70]. pipelines from genetic databases to occurrence databases is
Mining the spatial information already present in other currently a priority for OBIS (W. Appeltans, OBIS Project

databases also has potential for supplementing existing Manager 2020, personal communication).

occurrence datasets. In this study, we relied on existing Finally, the dimensions of diversity that we summarize in
links between WoRMS and GenBank and BOLD, which this study are somewhat limited. We did not consider the
simply summarize the number of nucleotides or barcodes traits of species, for instance, beyond functional groups that
present for each species. The spatial meta-data stored in the indicate habitat affiliation in very broad terms (e.g. benthic