over was 0.29 +0.12 (ie. on average, 29% of taxon identities Comparing all temporal data revealed that turnover can
were exchanged per year across all sites and organisms, be highly independent from richness change. For presence—
figure 2a). When taking abundance into account, the yearly absence-based SERr, at zero net change in richness, any
turnover was even larger (mean + standard deviation = 0.52 + turnover between 0 and 0.65 could be observed (i.e. up to
0.32), and the temporal fluctuation was higher (average CV two-thirds of the community exchanged, figure 3a). In gen-
per time-series for SERa = 48.7%, for SERr 24.5%). Given this eral, SERr and AS were positively related in a triangle-
variation, neither SERr nor SERa showed strong linear trends shaped pattern, indicating that with the increasing net
over time, with four time-series showing increasing turnover change in richness, SERr becomes larger and less variable.
with time, and six showing decreases when taking presence— By contrast, SERa was much more variable: the entire range
absence-based approaches (for SERa, two significantly positive of possible values of SERa between 0 and 1 were found at
and six significantly negative trends, respectively). Remarkably, all levels of AS (figure 3b, see 5% and 95% quantiles). None-
the datasets showing consistent trends in SERr did not overlap theless, median SERa also increased (and interquartile
with those showing trends using SERa. distance declined) with increasing AS. The fact that the full

Among organisms, invertebrates and plankton tended to range of SERa values corresponded with no to minimal
have higher turnover rates than birds and fish, but this differ- change in richness indicates that a complete reorganization
ence was small compared to the overall high variance in of composition was possible without altering richness.
annual turnover (electronic supplementary material, figure In most time-series, turnover accumulated, reflected by an
SOM 3). Given this variance, the detection of extraordinary increase in SERr or SERa, with increasing temporal distance
years becomes more unlikely. In fact, the only outliers for between sampling points (figure 4). This was especially
SERa all derived from the single dataset using phytoplankton strong for SERr, indicating that replaced species assemblages
pigment diversity instead of morpho-taxonomy (electronic sup- did not reappear. Maximum turnover was reached after 5-15
plementary material, figure SOM 3B). For SERr, by contrast, years, which can be considered a timeframe in which

extraordinary years were detected (electronic supplementary community composition is fully reorganized.