camouflage since an animal’s body would provide a motion such as wind-blown foliage and photic changes in = 5!
window through to its background, providing mobile and illumination is ubiquitous in natural environments [52-54]. 9 5
accurate camouflage. However, while the absence of pigment Species may be able to capitalize on large amounts of dynamic =
minimizes surface radiance, the tissues themselves must also noise within the visual environment to mask movement. 3
minimize the scattering of light and inevitably some organs Behaviour can facilitate camouflage of moving objects. For =
will persist that could attract predator attention [41-43]. example, Macleay’s spectre stick insects Extatosoma tiaratum >
Transparency acts to minimize the SNR by reducing the use environmental cues to adjust their swaying behaviour in N
body silhouette while simultaneously potentially allowing response to wind, resulting in motion that is quantitatively s
noise from the environment to transverse the body, allowing similar to wind-blown vegetation [55]. Environments contain- s
for camouflage in open environments where there are no sur- ing dynamic illumination such as dappled light and water
faces to match. Therefore, it is unsurprising that transparency caustics can also act as potential movement refuges owing to
is most strongly represented in pelagic communities, facili- the large amount of background noise [52,53]. Dappled light-
tated by the fact that water is closer in refractive index to ing appears to disrupt motion detection capabilities, as
many biological constituents compared to air, reducing scat- search efficiency is worse in simulated dappled lighting and
tering [41]. However, there are terrestrial exceptions: for water caustics compared to static scenes [53] and it increases
example, many Ithomiine butterflies possess transparent or latency to identify and target prey [56]. Overall, these studies
partially transparent wings [44]. Transparency enhances demonstrate that dynamic noise can mask movement and
crypsis to both avian and human predators by reducing the that animals may be able to decrease their SNR through tem-
chance of detection compared to more opaque species [44]. poral background matching via movement or seeking out
Similarly, in a recent study, the survival of cryptic moths environments with more dynamic noise.

with wings that include transparent windows was compar-
able to wingless bodies but significantly higher than

opaque cryptic forms, suggesting that transparency is also a 3. Predator st rategies