
Examples of feedforward control are very common in information to offspring so that it can be integrated into off-
biology (table 2). Any behaviour or activity that uses a cue spring phenotypes [90-92]. By contrast, populations that
to prompt its timing is predictive and model-based. Major experience completely unpredictable and variable environ-
examples are most forms of phenotypic plasticity, and adjust- ments are not likely to evolve anticipatory parental effects
ment of organism timing. Many organisms, ranging from [42,93]. If environments are variable and unpredictable, then
single-celled algae to mammals, use circadian clocks (a type diversified bet hedging, in which parents produce offspring
of internal model) to anticipate regular environmental with a variety of phenotypes, may be a better strategy [38].
changes and coordinate internal biological processes [71]. Dormancy is a common feedforward strategy to enable
For example, plants upregulate photosynthetic machinery persistence in variable environments [94-96]. Dormancy in
before dawn, allowing an immediate response to light plant seeds allows seeds to avoid germination during periods
when the sun rises [83]. The importance of these anticipatory that are only temporarily favourable, and dormancy can distri-
mechanisms is demonstrated by the fact that when circadian bute offspring over time and bet-hedge against unpredictable
clocks are disrupted, fitness decreases [84,85]. Plants and ani- variable environments [97,98]. Dormancy and germination
mals prepare life histories in spring and winter on the basis of cueing can allow populations to colonize new locations and
day length rather than internal temperatures. For example, persist in changing environments by ensuring that germina-
trees stop growing and shed their leaves in autumn based tion occurs when environmental conditions are appropriate,
on day length cues in anticipation of impending winter and to escape from crowding and competition [99,100].

[86]. Anticipatory developmental switches between alterna- Feedforward systems are expected to arise when the
tive phenotypes (i.e. direct development and diapause) are environment varies in a highly regular pattern for a long
often cued by photoperiod and have evolved independently period of time. Feedforward systems may not be robust or
in a wide variety of taxa [43,87,88]. These switches are attuned to variation regimes that have no historical precedent
often established and maintained if cues are reliable (i.e. and are therefore not modelled by the system. If some properties
they are accurately correlated with later fitness-defining of the environmental fluctuations change so that the system’s