responses, while the regression done here is only sensitive with regressions of the fully independent eddy
to relationships on about monthly and longer-term time covariance data (to essentially the same degree as
scales. We therefore assume that equation (4.5) is not a domi- shown in [9]), and
nant pathway. ¢ they show seasonal and large-scale spatial patterns
We further note that ecosystem respiration has been accessible to interpretation in terms of ecological
found to correlate (positively) with GPP [29]. This has the processes (§4a).
potential to partially cancel the effect of GPP variations on
NEE variations. In cases nevertheless pointing to equation The conclusion that the atmospheric CO, data do contain
(4.4) as the dominant process (Southern Europe), the interannual NEE signals is further underlined by the finding
possibility of a partially cancelled GPP influence would that using more stations in the standard inversion helps to
strengthen this process attribution. However, in cases where increase its agreement with the NEE-T and NEE-T-W inversions
equation (4.4) does not seem to play a dominant role (Central (seen especially in Eastern Europe, §3a). Further support comes
Europe), we cannot exclude that important GPP variability from the fact that the NEE estimates from the standard inver-
does exist but gets reduced owing to the opposing ecosystem sion are, when averaged over the regional scale, already
respiration variability. correlated with the (independent) temperature anomalies
In the high latitudes, we found positive yygp-w values (though of course less strongly than those of the NEE-T inver-
in early summer (figure 5, upper panels). Even though sion, not shown).
high-latitude GPP is not water-limited, a positive yyepw Analysing a regional inversion over Europe up to 57.5°N
can arise indirectly from radiation limitation according to and 22.5°E (approximately Western, Southern and Central

Europe of figure 1) and the period 2002-2007, Broquet et al.

@cloud-cover = @precipitation = OSPEI [30, p. 9053] warned that year-to-year variations in monthly

Ora dation s OGPP = NEE. (4.6) NEE (ie. NEE of a given month each year) may be too