life history that led to modern humans strongly suggests that whole range of striking human cognitive changes. Many = &
many coevolutionary processes emerged in concert rather of the specific computations that are involved in particular =
than that there was a single decisive adaptation. In this cognitive capacities, such as intuitive physics or psychology, >!
paper, I suggest that distinctive cognitive features of child- or social understanding and cooperation, could, in principle, N
hood, particularly the capacity and motivation for internal be either built in or restricted to particular domain-specific s
and external exploration in a protected period, were one kinds of learning (this may indeed be the case in other species). 3
important factor contributing to this coevolutionary cascade. A long and wide-ranging period of learning and exploration, in

The fact that both the extended human childhood and the contrast, would help to enable the whole range of human cog-
cognitive changes emerged so quickly and in concert, and nitive skills, from physics to psychology, from communication
particularly that the life-history changes are so costly, to culture.
suggests that there is some adaptive relationship between The idea of childhood as an evolutionary solution to
them. This has, in fact, been suggested in a general way pre- explore-exploit trade-offs also applies widely beyond
viously [25,26]. But what might this relationship be like in humans, unlike some of the more specific proposals concern-
more detail? It is certainly possible that the relationship is epi- ing cooperation and culture. It may seem evolutionarily
phenomenal rather than adaptive. That is, a long childhood, paradoxical to develop a life history that includes expensive
or even simply a longer overall lifespan, might be selected for and vulnerable young for a long period. However, across
some reason and a larger brain and cortical size might simply many different species, including birds, both placental and
be a result of the longer developmental period (e.g. [27]). marsupial mammals, and even insects, there is a very general
Or, vice-versa, a larger brain might simply require a longer (though not perfect) correlation between the length of imma-
waiting period of development [28]. turity and degree of parental investment and relative brain

Alternatively, there might be some quite specific links size, intelligence and a reliance on learning [9,33-36].
between particular adult cognitive capacities and the Humans are, of course, at the far end of the distribution on
extended human childhood. For example, Hrdy and Burkart all these measures. Explore-exploit trade-offs may help to