We show that GBMs lead to more erratic evolutionary trajec- such as inversions [28] or chromosomal fusions.
tories during local adaptation in the face of gene flow and may The theme of this special issue is the evolution of
slow down the evolution of reproductive isolation regardless of strong reproductive isolation during speciation. It might be
whether we consider local adaptation to a fixed set of optima suggested that our results are of little relevance since they
or as a runaway process. Our implementation approximates an appear to address primarily the initial evolution of reproduc-
infinite-sites-model with uniformly distributed mutational tar- tive barriers through adaptation to stable but divergent trait
gets for both locally beneficial mutations (LBMs) and GBMs. optima in two populations connected through migration.
Given the importance of linkage, any deviation from our assump- We show that in this case, migration shuts down only in
tion of a polygenic trait under divergent selection, or from the regions of the genome that contribute to local adaptation
assumption that mutational targets for LBMs and GBMs do not causing partial reproductive isolation. However, we would
arise in strictly separate parts of the genome, will reduce the nega- argue that the equilibrium shown in figure 1 corresponds to

tive impact of GBMs on local adaptation. We only considered a stable endpoint, despite the fact that barriers between


locally adapted taxa remain permeable and globally beneficial
genes can introgress with negligible delay [8]. Biologists
studying gene flow in nature discarded the biological species
concept (BSC) more than a quarter of a century ago [29]
because its simplistic requirement of complete reproductive
isolation, while attractive for the purposes of categorization,
contradicts the widespread evidence of hybridization.
There is now strong evidence from genomic data that species
barriers have been permeable across entire radiations (e.g.
Heliconius butterflies [30]). Likewise, the discovery that