2 4 6 0 5 10
P_MAM (mm d-!) P_JF (mm d-!)

Figure 1. Effects of main climatic drivers on normalized winter wheat yield anomalies for Northern (a), Eastern (b), Western (c) and Southern Europe (d). The
central panel for each region shows the combined effect of the two most important drivers on the normalized yield anomalies (in percent; different colour scale
between regions). Only common values of climatic variables experienced by the crops are coloured (Finland experienced unusual combinations of P_JJA and
Tmax_JF in 2018). Individual effects of the two drivers are presented at the left and bottom margins of each panel. The density curves at the top and the
right of the central plot depict the distribution of the variables. The mean values observed in 2018 over all districts for a country are indicated by the country
initials in the white boxes. (Online version in colour.)

with those trained with historical data showed that Tmax_JF ranked fifth after 1992, 1998, 2007 and 2003 (figure 5; electronic
and P_MAM had a particularly strong influence on the 2018 supplementary material, figure S9). Western Europe showed
yield anomalies in that region. The fact that these conditions larger impacts of temperature in the second part of the growing
are rare in the whole time series may explain the poor predictive season (MAM and JJA) in 2018 compared to all years. Tempera-
quality of the RF calibrated on historical data to yields in 2018 ture showed higher values in the second part of the 2018 crop
events (electronic supplementary material, figures S3 and $5). cycle than usually observed and were associated with lower
P_MAM (along with P_JJA) showed values being among the rainfall (figure 7). Figure 1 shows that a compounding of cli-
lowest observed in recent years, while Tmax_MAM and matic extremes worsens the individual effect of each variable.
Tmax_JJA had values above average (figure 7). Southern Europe experienced a high within-country
Western Europe experienced for most areas lower yields variability of yield anomalies for several crops, particularly
than expected for oilseed rape, rye, triticale and potatoes maize in Spain (figure 3). Only a small proportion of total
(figures 3 and 4). Triticale and maize showed large area with cultivated areas in this region showed extreme yield losses,
either extremely high or low yields. Positive and negative in particular for sugar-beet and rapeseed (figure 3), while
yield anomalies were also found for substantial proportions of more than 25% of the area in wheat, triticale, oats or rye
barley and wheat growing areas, revealing that contrasting cli- showed highly positive yield anomalies (above the 90th per-