CNVs, we focus on Choosiness-associated CNVs, which structure is captured by copy-number variation. By contrast,

show the expected pattern of copy-number displacement Pezer et al. [59] found that a smaller proportion (approx. 10%)


of detected CNVs were population-specific in a study of (c) Processes that potentially explain copy-number
European M. m. domesticus. However, due to the nature of

our approach, arbitrary thresholds for statistical significance displacement in the hybrid zone
in the difference of allele frequencies between populations Barrier traits are often observed to be stronger in populations
will influence the ratio of fixed versus quantitatively diver- that co-occur with heterospecific populations—a pattern
gent CNVs (see electronic supplementary materials, Step 5). termed reproductive character displacement [4]. It follows
The fact that most Choosiness-associated CNVs showed that genetic variation contributing to barrier traits will
qualitative differences between behavioural classes, however, mirror this pattern of divergence (genotypic displacement)
means that they make strong candidates as alleles associated [10]. Through reinforcement, selection against unfit hybrids
with the evolution of mate choice. will lead to the differentiation of phenotypes that promote
Another striking feature of Choosiness-associated CNVs assortative mating (and underlying genotypes) in hybrid
was the high frequency of variants that were categorized as zones relative to an ancestral state observed in allopatry. ==
‘non-identical by state’, ie. those with strong but not strict However, while the pattern of character displacement can 2
overlap in their coordinates across replicate comparisons of reflect a process of reinforcement, reinforcement is not the
Choosy and Non-Choosy populations. By contrast, less than only possible cause of character displacement and phenom- =
10% of Choosiness-associated CNVs that were identical by ena unrelated to reinforcement or speciation generally can =
state (i.e. those with strictly identical coordinates; electronic cause patterns of character displacement [101]. Howard =
supplementary material, table $5). CNVs identical by state [4,101] set out criteria to distinguish among processes leading = =>
show a pattern of divergence consistent with a differentiation to reproductive character displacement, which have largely =