wise concordance between species for presence or absence supplementary material, figure S3) show dramatic inconsisten-
in individual samples. The tree in figure 4 shows neigh- cies between independent trees in regard to the clustering
bour-joining clustering of the common microbial taxa in our of the oral complex bacteria. For example, T. forsythia,
dataset by the similarities of their abundances over all T. denticola and P. gingivalis of the red complex cluster together
samples in our dataset according to SPARSE. This tree contra- (and also with C. rectus) in electronic supplementary material,
dicts the original composition of the oral complexes: the four figure S3A,C,EG. However, T. denticola and T. forsythia are sep-
areas of the tree where oral complex taxa are clustered each arated from P. gingivalis in the four other graphs in electronic
contain representatives from multiple complexes, and supplementary material, figure S3. And none of the three clus-
none of those four clusters corresponds to the original ter together with each other in electronic supplementary
compositions proposed by Socransky ef al. [26]. material, figure S3E. Similar, or even greater, discrepancies
It seemed possible that the discrepancies between figure 4 are visible for the other oral complexes in electronic sup-
and the original compositions of the oral complexes might plementary material, figure S3. Inconsistencies in clustering
reflect the fact that this study identified many additional patterns across minor differences in sampling and clustering
taxa, some of which were as common as those used to define algorithms raise severe doubts about the very existence of the
the oral complexes (electronic supplementary material, text). oral complexes as defined by Socransky et al. [26].

We therefore performed cluster analyses of our current data

for the original set of 31 cultivatable bacterial species examined

by Socransky et al. [26]. We compared the neighbour-joining (e) Numbers of taxa per source

algorithm used here with the less powerful, agglomerative The rarefaction curves in figure 5a provide a breakdown of
clustering method (UPGMA, unweighted pair group method taxa by sample source as additional samples are tested.
