likely a result of flexibility in the network structure (meaning interpretation. Microbiomes from mummies initially provided = =:
low modularity), which is directly tied to sample size. an intuitive avenue to study ecology of ancient human gut = S'
Contemporary hunter-gatherers shared a keystone species microbiomes but was ultimately discovered to be misleading = >
with the coprolites (P. succinatutens). Additionally, the contem- as the human gut, upon death, continues to be a moist, =
porary and ancient hunter-gatherer faecal microbiomes had warm, enclosed bioreactor shaping the ecology to resemble = &
similar response diversity and redundancy profiles for SCFA that expected of compost [41]. Because ecology focuses so clo- iat
production. Both observations indicate a potential overlap sely on taxa-taxa abundances and taxa-gene interactions, the >!
in ecological community structure and function in contempor- preservation issues of a coprolites presents a major challenge, N
ary and ancient hunter-gatherers. The similarity in ecological but Rio Zape proved to be an exception, as our results show s
profiles is exciting because it also demonstrates that ecological that we can still study resilience and redundancy with small &
interpretation is feasible with ancient microbiome datasets. sample sizes.
A similar conclusion can be drawn from comparing the A further challenge is authenticating that the communities
modern Spanish dental calculus to the Maya and Radcliffe are in fact ancient human microbiomes. Importantly, the pre-
ancient dental calculus. Each of these dental calculus datasets viously published datasets used in this analysis validated
have low modularity, high transitivity, and similar phylo- their sequencing reads and we did the same for our newly gen-
genetic diversity and Gini-Simpson values for each gene erated data with SourcETRACKER2 [80], where the majority of
of interest. There are probably different factors driving simi- our reads come from expected oral microbes. As expected for
larity in ancient and modern gut microbiomes than the factors ancient DNA, all samples had reads which could not be
driving similarity in ancient and modern dental calculus, but assigned to known taxa in the database (categorized as
these observations present opportunities for deeper investi- ‘unknown’ in SourcETRACKER2). We included these reads in
gations into how lifestyle changes over time influence our analyses, because a majority of them probably originate
variation in ecological interactions and functional redundancy from ancient oral microbes but cannot be confidently assigned
within microbiomes. owing to existing databases being biased towards reference
While we were able to demonstrate key ecological signa- strains from modern, industrialized populations. These
tures of ancient human microbiomes, there remains reason ‘unknown’ reads may belong to taxa performing important