Samoa by 2800 BP [84,85]. Lapita origins are linked to the result of direct infection via local pinniped or other marine
Austronesian expansion from Taiwan through Island South- mammal populations.

east Asia, which is thought to have been initially driven by
demographic, technological and social changes on the Asian
mainland associated with the spread of rice agriculture from

around 6000 BP [60]. 3. Outlook and conclusion

If the earliest evidence of TB in Asia is correct, indicating its The present pathological data alone cannot conclusively
appearance only in the last 4000-4500 years, then TB may not resolve the issue of age and origin of TB in the Pacific. Yet
have been widespread enough to have been introduced to the resolving the issue of the arrival and provenance of the
Pacific via the Lapita expansion. This is consistent with the fact MTBC in the region is important as it provides major insights
that there is currently no recorded evidence of TB in Lapita- into the spread and evolution of the MTBC and may indicate
associated remains—most notably it was not found in the the potential danger of the spread from non-human hosts to
large cemetery population of Teouma, in Vanuatu, dated to humans if close contact is allowed. Owing to the non-conclus-
2900 BP [86]. While the Lapita expansion did extend to ive nature of the palaeopathology of TB in most cases, and the
Tonga, the Tongan samples that have been identified with low percentage (approx. 3-5% [94,95]) of people infected with
TB-like lesions are dated to much later periods in prehistory, TB that develop skeletal lesions, ancient DNA and genetic
and possibly even date to the historic period [39]. Alterna- data are needed from the Asia-Pacific region, from ancient
tively, TB could have been present in the Southeast Asian humans as well as other ancient animal remains (commensal
populations but was not represented in, or not virulent and wild animals), to further understand and address the
enough to be sustained in, the population(s) migrating into origin and evolution of TB in the Pacific. Key questions
the Pacific. include whether pre-contact TB exists in the Pacific, and if
