of observing CMRO, during the earliest phase of the BOLD increases in glutamate (due to synaptic signalling from incom-
signal (the initial dip) [12], the inconsistency of this signal at ing afferents). Such increases in glutamate trigger astrocytes
different field strengths, in different brain regions and even and vasoactive agents that interact directly with local capil-
across studies has led to a focus on using calibrated fMRI to laries [11,21]. The overshoot phenomenon mentioned earlier,
measure CMRO, [13]. Calibrated fMRI involves arterial spin in which CBF greatly outpaces metabolic demand [10], is
labelling (ASL) to ‘tag’ incoming blood into the brain and likely a consequence of such feed-forward signals driven by
therefore calculate CBF. With the addition of simultaneous incoming synaptic activity from neighbouring brain areas
BOLD, hypercapnia and pulsometry, one can calculate [22]. Interestingly, there may even be situations in which the
CMRO, using an equation that relates these variables haemodynamic response can influence neural activity, for
[14,15]. Consistent with this, CMRO,, when it can be measured example, increases in pressure with penetrating arterioles
independently using calibrated fMRI, shows a robust corre- can suppress or enhance pyramidal cell activity [23,24].
lation with the activity of individual neurons [7,16]. Together, these findings suggest that neural activity alone
Calibrated fMRI involves, however, poorer spatial resol- does not drive the BOLD signal: in fact, it is a complex, bidir-
ution, the need to employ breath holding, and overall is ectional interaction. Consistent with this idea, studies looking
used infrequently compared with BOLD fMRI, thereby limit- at both CBF and neural activity suggest that changes in CBF
ing how readily and consistently one can measure CMRO). can occur with no corresponding changes in neural activity
No work to date in humans has performed calibrated fMRI [25] and that glial activity in isolation can result in changes
and electrophysiology in the same study, and thus their in CBF [9].
relationship in humans is unknown. Glucose and other metab- The idea that the BOLD signal is fundamentally inter-

olites are also critical for neural function, and shifts to twined with the actions and mechanisms of the NVU creates


Dee
a