other multivariate methods employed across species. For recordings in humans and animal models (Approaches 2
example, multivariate pattern analysis applied to both and 3). By mathematically formalizing the complex inter-
fMRI and electrophysiology data from the macaque reveals actions inherent to the brain, computational models can
that fMRI multivariate pattern analysis is insensitive to extract common quantitative descriptions for neural activity
some representational information that can otherwise be at both micro- and macroscopic levels. The resulting models
decoded from single-unit recordings [211]. The accuracy of may further be used to simulate and predict the effect of
cross-species RSA will improve if we can account for the biophysical activity at both a cellular and systems level.
missing information inherent to each recording modality, Perhaps the most elegant example of a computational
which will be made apparent from investigations where model that provides a common description for neural activity
multiple recording modalities are deployed in the same at both the microscopic and macroscopic level comes from
species (Approach 1). reinforcement learning algorithms. Based on animal learning
Identifying spatial homologies between species as distant experiments of classical conditioning [213,214], the Rescorla—
as the mouse and human presents a further challenge. The Wagner algorithm was devised to account for the fact that
classic method of mapping like to like in anatomical ontolo- learning is dependent upon the degree of unpredictability
gies, i.e. the mouse hippocampus is equal to the human of a reinforcer [215,216]. The real-time extension of this algor-
hippocampus, remains the most employed method. Yet, it ithm, called temporal difference (TD) learning, incorporates a
is likely that homologies between rodent and human will reward prediction error signal to learn a reward prediction

not be best captured by this type of one-to-one mapping. signal. While this prediction error signal was _ initially


hypothetical, researchers later discovered that it provides a 10. Translational value of bridging the
good approximation for the temporal profile of activity

in midbrain dopamine neurons, recorded using electro- Macroscopic and MICrOscopic levels