two options. In this simple situation, there is no particular above), subjects could gain a strategic advantage over their
reason (aside from reaction time minimization) for the motor prey by predicting the prey’s future position and moving to
action to begin until comparison and choice of option are com- it, and a generative model of behaviour allowed us to confirm
plete [18]. In other words, a serial design suffices. And indeed, that subjects indeed moved towards the predicted position of

there is plentiful evidence consistent with the serial model of the prey. We then used the mapping algorithm to map the


representation of predicted future positions of prey (specifi- decisions when the modality is the same. We may, for

cally, one developed in [88]). That is, we computed the example, predict further into the future when using our
average firing rate of each neuron as a function of the position eyes than our hands.
in space of the future position of the avatar. These maps are Further evidence comes from the fact that subjects appear
akin to place cell maps in the hippocampus, but they are for to initiate their action before they have fully decided on an
virtual positions (on a computer screen) and for future, rather option. That is, they hedge their bets and choose an intermedi-
than present positions. We found that these maps are present ate path between the two options [97,98]. Then, as their
in single dACC neurons and that they come from the same decision process unfolds in their heads, their arm changes its
cells—multiplexed—as self-position maps. pattern and begins to divert its path towards the chosen
When decisions are not discrete selections but processes option. Critically, the initial hedging path lasts longer if the
of continuous adjustment made on the fly, action selection choice takes more time to unfold. In other words, the beginning
can no longer easily be separated from choice. This suggests of selection takes place before the choice is complete. Taking =
a link to embodied decision-making arguments forwarded by this idea literally, the choice process occurs simultaneously = >
Shadlen et al. [89], who argue that the responses of single with the motor action. They are not discrete and the action — __
neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) to visual would provide a feedback signal to the choice, which is = =
motion are actually better thought of as an embodied opposed to the idea that movement does not influence the — 5!