implemented by the brain. In terms of the Marrian analysis roeconomic agenda can, in principle, be fulfilled by experiments
of modelling, PT (as other descriptive theories) is situated at relying on aggregate and indirect measures of the neural
the computational level that specifies which is the goal of the activity, such as the BOLD signal recorded by fMRI scanners
agent (in this case: maximizing a subjective utility that includes in areas encoding subjective values. Furthermore, since the
reference point dependence, loss aversion and probability goal is arbitrating between different behavioural theories of
deformation), but is silent concerning the algorithmic (i.e. decision-making developed by psychologists and economists,
what are the operations involved in the manipulation of the experiments belonging to this research agenda should be
decision variables) and implementational levels (i.e. how these preferentially (if not exclusively) performed in humans.
operations are physically embodied and realized) [14]. On the other side, as neural models are, ultimately, models
A couple of decades later the time was ripe for a group of of which information is encoded in neurons and how neurons
scholars of diverse origins to seek in neuroscientific data the are connected (networks), the strong neuroeconomic agenda
way to overcome the limitations of descriptive theories, research programme cannot be pursued only relying on
developed by psychologists and behavioural economists. fMRI neural signals.* In fact, BOLD signal, at its best resolution,
This was facilitated by the rapid development of non-inva- aggregates over thousands of neurons [37-39]. Furthermore, it
sive neuroimaging techniques in humans (most notably is still unclear to which extent it reflects presynaptic or postsyn-
functional magnetic resonance imaging: fMRI [15-17]) and aptic activity (probably a mixture of both) [39,40]. Such neural
improvement of single-unit electrophysiological record- models should eventually be validated based on the recording
ings in monkeys [18,19]. The hope was (and still is) that, of single-cell activities, which is, for obvious ethical reasons,
taking advantage of neuroscientific methods and concepts, nearly impossible in humans.* This is why neuroeconomics
neuroeconomics (as this raising field was named), would research, from its very inception, strongly relies on electro-
be able to address the epistemological issues of economic physiological research on animal models, which have been
theories highlighted above. employed in the study of neural mechanisms and cognition
Concerning adjudicating on competing theories (our first for almost 80 years [42]. Monkeys (especially rhesus monkey:
issue), by opening the brain ‘black box’ functional neuroima- Macaca mulatta), are particularly popular models, because
ging studies would provide an additional crucial observable they present a wide behavioural repertoire and high degree