women would place more weight on the investment potential in extinct hominins would have increased benefits for
of prospective mates and less weight on indicators of their both sexes in terms of reproduction, feeding and protection
genetic fitness, with a larger proportion of women adopting of the offspring. Indeed, bonds between females would have
long-term mating tactics almost exclusively. In response to been highly beneficial, as they would have allowed some
this, males should devote greater effort to parental invest- cooperative foraging and breeding, which can decrease the
ment and variance in men’s reproductive success should individual costs [96,97]. Regarding males, the variable spatial
be reduced. On the other hand, in an environment where distribution of female H. erectus at least seasonally may have
men’s genetic fitness is more needed and valued (e.g. placed selective pressures on them to become the resident or
pathogen-prevalent environment), women should be more the alpha male of small groups [94] and to keep track of a lim-
willing to engage in short-term matings, and consequently, ited number of females to facilitate mating access. The benefit
men should devote greater effort to short-term and extra- to males is an exclusive access to mates and a better chance to
pair mating. Indeed, women could benefit from polyandry obtain female sexual fidelity and paternity certainty. More-
under certain circumstances [83] and there is some evidence over, the fact that the male stays in the group carries benefits
showing that the range of variation in extra-pair paternity for both sexes via protection from infanticide. An alternative
across human populations is substantially greater than model, the large fission—fusion society [80], has been proposed
previously thought [84]. In some contexts, men may be for H. erectus, assuming that this species was living in chim-

choosing to provide care for non-biological children as part panzee-like fission-fusion groups, with immigrant females


and a large number of bonded males. Fissions represent an (time costs and energy expenditure for accessing or manipu-

opportunity to flexibly adjust behaviours and to recalibrate lating food). It is generally accepted that virtually all primates
the trade-offs that individuals experience by living in groups. engage cognitive operations to approach maximum foraging S
For instance, females are suggested to spread out when efficiency [107,108]. Indeed, given the distribution of their z