behaviour to one’s environment that defines a living organ- prevalence of economic behaviour among non-human pri-
ism. It is interesting to note, in that respect, that the expected mates. This contribution asks the hard question as to how to
empirical realization of the parameters of a paradigmatic define economic behaviour with respect to animals and evalu-
behavioural model of decision-making, namely prospect ate their frequency among ape and monkey societies. The
theory [8], does not make any sort of specific predictions better answer is maybe by pointing at some ‘obvious’
about the type of neurobiological underpinnings leading instances such as the famous colony of temple macaques in
to the realization of the model. It is in this sense purely behav- Bali involved in stealing and ‘blackmailing’ with visitors’
ioural and is actually, by design, compatible with a wide paraphernalia in exchange for food [12]. A fully fledged
array of biological implementations. Suffice it to mention the trading system has developed and apt behaviours to sustain
seminal study by Dener et al. [9], which shows that chick- it are culturally transmitted from one generation of macaques
peas display the risk-sensitivity patterns—risk-aversion in to the next. For de Waal, there are other arguments that can
gains and risk-seekingness in losses—emblematic of prospect support the relevance of thinking of animal behaviour in econ-
theory. This observation shifts, by consequence, the focus from omic terms. But these stem from the fact that economic sciences
individual cognitive conditions to the analysis of objective fea- have evolved in the past decades and have undertaken a be-
tures in the decision environments that make economic havioural turn that led to the relaxation of fully fledged
behaviour possible and also identifiable as such. rationality assumptions that could be empirically vindicated

For us, this second line of approach to the gap between only if we observed thus-envisioned economic agents con-
cognitive abilities and environments raises the hardest stantly maximizing their utility, which we apparently do not
questions. We might need a prior view of what can be reason- do even among most profit-oriented humans. This remark
ably counted as non-human primate economic behaviours, would be a bit vacuous if it were not accompanied by a charac-
so that we do not become too undiscriminating in defining terization of why humans and other animals do not behave
as ‘economic’ any animal behavioural pattern that fits the par- according to an ideal model of rationality. Interestingly, what
ameters of a model of decision-making. A recent attempt in de Waal underlines is the role and importance of emotions
this direction has been pursued by Addessi et al. [10]. To qua- to shape actual economic behaviours. A phylogenetic continu-