their study, there is the risk (this is where the risk lies) that Brosnan [45] in an article that explores what behaviour in
the chimpanzee having chosen that option gets strictly nothing. economic games tells us about the evolution of non-human
Chimpanzees have been considered risk-seeking in previous species’ economic decision-making behaviour. Instead of
studies that did not include this design feature, which happens ‘just’ applying a game-theoretical framework to probe the
to decrease the risk-seekingness of Keupp ef al.’s subjects. Zero- factors that influence decision-making, or to engage into
values have a special, even a mythical, status in behavioural inter-species comparisons through these stylized strategic
economics. The classical 1953 Allais paradox [40] showed for situations or even to hope to gain direct knowledge on pro-
the first time how a small risk of getting nothing in a lottery pensions to competition or cooperation in those same
yielding high gains otherwise shifts the subjects’ preferences species, it is possible, Brosnan argues, to use game-theoretical
towards a stochastically dominated lottery if there is the cer- experimental methods to engage in a reconstructive study of
tainty of getting something. Not only do Keupp et al.’s what behavioural ingredients are selectively required tomake = =
results show that a zero-value effect is present in some non- up fully fledged economic behaviour as we know it in =
human primates, but they incidentally illustrate the fact that humans. Games are malleable tools for the experimentalist _
it provokes an accentuation of risk-aversion as well as a dimin- who is especially interested in the almost infinite variability = =
ution of risk-seekingness, a welcome generalization. These of their internal structure (a set consisting of available actions, — 5!
authors draw a general lesson that invites researchers to a number of players, different payoffs assigned to the actions = &
be cautious about generalizing their experimental results. and the players, and further rules such as the number of =
The small methodological change they introduce in their periods, of moves allowed, the modalities of encounters = &
experimental setting routinely used for the measure of risk- between players, and the degree of mutual information ©
attitudes reverses a typical conclusion. It becomes illusory to they can share). This indeed allows a stepwise analysis of S
qualify chimpanzees, as a species, as being ‘risk-seeking’ or the performance of different individuals of possibly different —
‘risk-averse’. species when some of the components of a game are inde- S
The risk of over-generalization and essentialization of pendently manipulated. Brosnan reviews the results that 3
experimentally elicited behavioural features is clearly accentu- have been obtained through a large number of such structural
ated by the coupling of a routine experiment and a routine manipulations. She is interested in the typical results