visible rewards (LRv). They distinguish between lotteries
with 0, 1, 2 and 3-6 LRv, gambling more as the number of
LRv increases. For lotteries with at least 3 LRv, the probability
that capuchins will gamble is higher by the end of the study
(96.32%, node 9) compared to the beginning (89.87%, node 8).
Previous outcomes do not play any role and the level of infor-

3, Results
(a) Identifying the main decisional variables and

buildi ng the decision tree mation is never a splitting variable, suggesting that capuchins
The results of the best model selection procedure indicate that do not consider the level of information provided by the
the full model including the five variables was the best model different lotteries (i.e. the fact that the covers hide rewards).
(see electronic supplementary material, table $3). The results For bonobos, the number of LRv is also the first splitting
of the decision tree analysis are shown for each species in variable (figure 3). They start gambling more than 50% of the
figures 2-6 and summarized in table 2. As expected, the time in lotteries with at least 2 LRv (from node 7). They dis-
first splitting variable is the number of large visible rewards tinguish between 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4-6 LRv (gambling more as
(#LRv) for all species. The scenarios then differ according to the number of LRv increases). In lotteries with 2 LRv, they
each species. Some trees remain ‘simple’ with five terminal are less likely to gamble at a given trial if the previous out-
nodes in capuchins, six in bonobos and seven in gorillas, come was a medium-sized reward (i.e. if they had not
while others are more complex with nine nodes in macaques, exchanged; 67.67% of gambling, node 7) than a reward of
11 nodes in chimpanzees and 13 nodes in orangutans. Species any other size (81.27% of gambling, node 8). Like for the
results are presented in increasing order of terminal nodes in capuchins, the level of information is never a splitting vari-
the decision trees. For individual gambling rates, see elec- able, suggesting that they do not consider the level of
