waking mind wandering existing on a continuum of spontaneous experiences

THE ROYAL SOCIETY

PUBLISHING © 2020 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


that ranges from creative thought and mind wandering in believe it is a useful starting point that can help reset empirical

waking to dreaming in sleep [6-8]. and theoretical research, but it is not my anticipated endpoint.'
Assessing these opposing positions on the relation between Second, for reasons of space, my discussion of empirical
conscious states and behavioural states—I call this the state- findings is selective. In particular, I do not attempt to provide
dependence question—is complicated by the fact that there is a comprehensive literature review of dreaming and mind wan-
no common terminology for describing spontaneous thoughts dering. Given the range of topics and disciplines discussed
and experiences. Mind wandering [9,10] and dream research here—the philosophy and science of mind wandering, dream-
[11,12] have both been fraught by competing definitions. In ing and dreamless sleep experience, both individually and
recent years, there has been growing consensus on the defi- together—a comprehensive discussion would be far beyond
nition of dreaming [13-15]. However, the terminology used the scope of this paper. Instead, | attempts a birds’ eye perspec-
for dreaming operates on a different level of description from tive that aims to integrate existing approaches in a new way. I
that used for the definition of mind wandering. This, in turn, focus on selected examples that I take to be particularly useful, = =
hampers comparisons between these states as well as their but this also means there are important gaps both in the topics] =
joint empirical investigation. cover and in the literature I cite. Ss
Another problem is that existing attempts to model spon- Third, I do not attempt to offer a conclusive defence either = =:
taneous thoughts in waking and sleep along a continuum of the dynamic framework of mind wandering or of the simu- 5!
[6-8] have focused on the relationship between dreaming lation view of dreaming, which are the two main sources of = >