a large repertoire of these enzymes. Regulation of RegA amoeboid mode of cell movement is most common and
activity by phosphorelay is therefore very possible. likely to be ancestral to all eukaryotes. Many components ©

of the cytoskeletal and signal transduction excitable networks =
; ; ; ; that trigger and direct actin waves, respectively, are con-
7. Extracellular CAMP signalling is unique to served between D. discoideum and mammalian cells [5].

; ; While in amoebas the actin waves are involved in the for-
Dictyostelia ; ;
mation of pseudopods and phagocytic cups, in mammalian
The genes involved in the extracellular roles of cAMP, such as cells they generate a range of protrusions, such as lamellipo-
cARI and pdsA, are conserved throughout Dictyostelia, but dia, filopodia, invadopodia and podosomes. In view of the
are not present in the solitary Amoebozoa. Dictyostelium dis- fact that Dictyostelia and mammals evolved multicellularity
coideum has four cAR genes, but of those only cAR1, which independently from each other, this implies that the cyto-
mediates chemotaxis and prespore gene induction by skeletal and signal transduction excitable networks have
cAMP, is conserved outside group 4 [46]. Polysphondylium ancient origins that pre-date the evolution of multicellularity.
pallidum has two cAR1-like genes and deletion of both does The differentiation pathway of encystation is equally
not affect aggregation [47], for which P. pallidum uses glorin ancient and prevalent among the unicellular members of all
as attractant. However, without cARs, fruiting body morpho- eukaryote divisions [54]. Encapsulation as a dormant cyst is
genesis is stunted, with disorganized differentiation of the preferred and often only strategy available to single cells
stalk cells. Remarkably, the remaining cells differentiate into to survive environmental stress, such as starvation, drought
cysts instead of spores. Without cARs, cAMP cannot induce or, for phytoplankton, lack of light in winter at high latitudes.
prespore gene expression, but because PKA is still activated, In Dictyostelia, starvation and drought stress trigger encysta-
the starving cells form cysts instead. This again illustrates that tion by increasing intracellular cAMP and activating PKA
sporulation is evolutionarily derived from encystation [47]. [43,45,54], with the cAMP phosphodiesterase RegA maintain-