This points to an intrinsic interrelation of filopodia effects on was not due to an overall embryonic delay (data not shown). =
tip selection speed with the quality of local activating signal To characterize the generality of this effect, we quantified = 5!
in their environment. the pErk pixel values within a rectangular region along the = &
To provide the first experimental validation of these pre- DA in ImageJ. The left side of the rectangle was aligned to =
dictions in vivo we analysed tip selection in the dorsal aorta the anterior side of the first patch of bright pErk staining  &
(DA) of zebrafish embryos. We chose developing zebrafish seen in the DA for all of our data at 22 hpf (our highest data =
in particular because they are (i) easily amenable and well- timepoint, N= 5, control 1 = 46, LatB n = 43). We then created >!
validated for live-imaging angiogenesis being transparent a plot profile of the rectangle in Image] to generate a list of =~
during development [71] and (ii) sprouting of ISVs from pErk pixel brightness values along the anterior-posterior s
the DA is a highly stereotypical process with simple trackable axis. When we averaged the values of the pErk brightness pro- a
branch initiations arising from a single pre-existing DA vessel files over all embryos, we found that the control had a more
[47], very similar to the simulation set-up used above. spatially periodic appearance of pErk brightness along the
First, using high spatiotemporal resolution imaging of DA (figure 2f, left subpanel). This is descriptive of the fact
emerging tip cells in live zebrafish embryos, we confirmed that ECs in the DA at 22 hpf already have regular differential
our time-ordered argument to be correct, as filopodia were activation patterns corresponding to ISV locations across the
observed on ECs residing in the DA at timepoints prior to tip fish in the control group. In the LatB condition, there were
cell selection and ISV branching (figure 2d). We then used still some elements of periodicity, but much of it is lost when
low-dose latrunculin B (LatB) from these early timepoints averaging across fish and experiments. This suggests that
to specifically disrupt filopodia extension by perturbing LatB impinges on the ability of the cells to reliably create a
F-actin nucleation at filopodia (but not other actin nucleation differential pattern in Vegfr activations.
sites) [27,44]. A dose-response study previously found that To quantify this difference in spatial periodicity, we
low doses of LatB, within the range of 0.08 and 0.1 pg mI", employed the Lomb-Scargle Periodogram—which is a com-
specifically disrupt filopodia in zebrafish ISVs, without monly used signal processing algorithm used to assess the
impacting cortical actin, cell shape changes or causing the presence of periodic modes [74]. This algorithm works essen-
myocardial embryonic lethal issues that arise with higher tially by checking how well sine waves of a given frequency