oi mv |
unknown

Figure 2. SELFOs in humans and Hydra. (a) Spontaneous electrical activity in the human ‘DMN’ in a representative subject ‘at rest’ as measured by functional magnetic
Tesonance imaging (fMRI) (left) with its associated time course showing low-frequency oscillations (middle), which are proposed to play a role in the functions listed
(right). Left and middle panels adapted from fig. 1a in [51] (copyright 2008 National Academy of Sciences, USA). (6) Spontaneous electrical activity in the Hydra RP1
network as visualized in Hydra ‘at rest’ expressing GCaMP65s in its neurons (left) with a representative time course measured in earlier work with extracellular electrodes
showing its low-frequency oscillations (middle) of unknown function. A and A’ indicate asymmetrical epidermal muscle contractions correlated with an electrical poten-
tial distinct from rhythmic potential (RP). RP pulses are denoted by black dots and resulted in no observable behaviour. Middle panel adapted from Fig. 1 in [34].

up to 20% of total body energy, so it cannot be mere ‘noise’, hypothalamus, midbrain and brainstem, and, in turn, can
as had been assumed for most of the twentieth century [63]. rapidly send information back to and between these same
These two facts—a highly conserved structure and a high areas [4,52,72,73]. Thus, in addition to oscillating at the
energetic cost—suggest that spontaneous brain activity is lowest frequency in the brain, the DMN seems to also be in
likely critical for brain function [61,63], although for what is a unique structural position to act as the ultimate downstream
unclear. One proposal, by Buzsaki, envisages a hierarchy of integrator, as implicitly predicted by Buzsaki’s theory [64].
integrating oscillators that form the functional or ‘syntactical’ Another way to think about the potential role of the DMN
units of the elusive ‘neural code’ where faster, smaller and in human self-construction is as the top layer of the hierarch-
more local oscillations become entrained, integrated, or ical predictive coding ‘self-model’ as put forth by Friston
‘read’ by slower, larger and more global oscillations [64]. The [74,75]. Like Buszaki’s theory, which predicts the need for
highest-frequency neural oscillations function as the ‘letters’ an ultimate brain integrator or ‘reader’ (i.e. a ‘self’), a hier-
of the code, which are integrated or ‘read’ by lower-frequency archical predictive coding model also implies the need for
oscillations that form ‘words’, which are integrated or ‘read’ an ultimate brain integrator or ‘predictor’ (also a ‘self’) at
into ‘sentences’ by the next lowest-frequency level, and so the top of the hierarchy. According to predictive coding
on. Although Buzsaki does not explicitly say so, the theory brain models, prediction error is passed up the hierarchy