ne Noto ac = J we i pomees \— Ni

(CH; Acetytransterase CH

Figure 4. Enzymes and synthetic pathways for low molecular weight transmitters. (a) Synthesis of biogenic amines; (b) synthesis of GABA and acetylcholine. The respect-
ive enzymes and their abbreviations are the same as used in the text. Asterisks (*) indicate synthetic enzymes from non-metazoan species.

The experimentally confirmed low molecular weight trans- comments. This diagram shows the enzymes identified in ani-
mitters include polar amino acids, their derivatives and gases. mals. However, there are alternative pathways of synthesis
They are (1) L-glutamate, (2) D- and (3) L-aspartate, (4) glycine, and catabolism of monoamines and acetylcholine in other
(5) gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), (6) D-serine, (7) seroto- eukaryotes and prokaryotes. The detection of monoamines or
nin, (8) dopamine, (9) noradrenaline, (10) adrenaline, (11) acetylcholine in some tissues might be owing to bacterial
octopamine, (12) tyramine, (13) histamine, (14) acetylcholine, contamination. In fact, some bacteria names are dedicated to
(15) taurine, (16) protons, (17) ATP, (18) nitric oxide (NO), the high synthesis of acetylcholine—Bacillus acetylcholini; these
(19) carbon monoxide (CO) and (20) H2S. The list might incor- and related bacteria acetylate choline and present in fermented
porate short lipids (derivatives of arachidonic acid, acting sauerkraut and silos [89]. The presence and usage of transmit-
on cannabinoid receptors), trace amines, purines such as ters in particular animals might reflect enzymatic activities of
adenosine, and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, etc. symbionts and associated microbiota. Finally, the presence of

Considering that these intercellular chemical messengers a given chemical does not provide direct evidence for its trans-
can also be produced and operate as signal molecules in non- mitter function, which should be experimentally proved by
neuronal cells, the correct term would be transmitter. The term careful functional studies.
neurotransmitter refers to signal molecules with a confirmed The entire scope of the comparative diversity of neurotrans-
neuronal release. In fact, 95% of the serotonin in our body is not mitters, especially in minor phyla, is unknown. A prevailing
located in neurons; it is produced in the intestine where it has view is that most, if not all, (neuro)transmitters should be the