not differ in their behaviour compared to those with grand-
maternal support, which could suggest positive interactions
with other female family members. In future studies, it

would be valuable to obtain detailed information about the 5. Conclusion
advice-giving and emotionally supporting role of these Our study found that while grandmaternal advice on nutri-
other female relatives. tion in early life was associated with improvements to
Previous studies of grandmaternal support have focused children’s nutritional status, direct support of grandmothers
on potential benefits for the child and have rarely addressed to mothers of 2-year-old children was not associated with
maternal outcomes, aside from fertility [27]. We hypothesized differences in maternal stress, child temperament or maternal
that grandmothers might reduce the mother’s exposure to and child nutritional status, compared to mothers lacking
stress, or subsidize the energy demands of childcare. In turn, such support. We suggest that these null results may be
this might have implications for the mother’s future reproduc- due to the fact that when grandmothers were not available,
tion, for example, by making it easier for the mother to have mothers drew on others, typically female relatives, for
additional children [13], or allowing energy stores to be accu- emotional support and advice. These findings underline the
mulated for future lactation [87]. Reducing stress has been flexibility in human social support networks, indicating that
shown experimentally to benefit both mothers and children when key sources of support are not available, women may
[39], and our null findings for this maternal outcome again turn to others to ensure they get the supported required to
suggest that the GM— mothers may have resolved stress by raise invest in and nurture their children.

drawing on other sources of emotional support.

Finally, other characteristics of the Yucatecan population Ethics. Ethical permission was obtained from the University College

may have contributed to the lack of differences between London Ethics Committee and by the Bioethics Committee for the