and that of archaeologists and palaeontologists.° . .

Starting with Vico himself, some evolutionary models cultural praxis and the cultural sciences
have been formulated on the basis of a long-term compara- (i) Culture relates to nature as choice relates to conditions
tive study of human cultural productivity (or symbolical Culture has been defined, in a pithy summary of the culture/
self-reproduction). Two are worth mentioning here: the rise- nature divide, as ‘anything one could also do differently’
and-fall model and the centre-periphery model. (D Fokkema 1990, personal communication; cf. generally

Vico’s idea of a cyclical development of succeeding civili- [43]). While natural functions such as eating food, procreation
zations in world history saw each civilization emerge from an and mortality impose inescapable ‘facts of life’, culture will
inarticulate pre-civilized stage into literacy, flourishing, and establish a number of different modalities for negotiating
eventually declining and being overtaken by a different one them. Following J.G. Herder’s observations regarding the
([33]; cf. [34]). This emergence-rise-and-fall model, while fact that cultural differences between human societies
obviously raising fundamental problems as to its scientific (measured across space or over time) far outweigh physio-
cogency or falsifiability, has had wide-ranging cultural reper- logical differences (cf. [34]; also, from a cultural evolution
cussions, prompting a generalized stadial view of human (CE) perspective, [16]), cultural history works from the
civilization (heralded by Tylor [35]). Speculative and proble- prima facie assumption that cultural diversification cannot
matic though it is, it still looms large among ethnographers be wholly physiologically or physically driven. In cultural
and world-historians, and has become familiar to the general development, cultural agencies must be involved that must
public, mostly as an informal, a priori working assumption exist and operate (at least partly) autonomously, amounting

or ideologeme. to more than a mere epiphenomenon or response mechanism.


While cultural practices can, in their differentiation, set These dynamics are generated from within culture | 4 |