epigenetic transmission do not. Irrespective of whether that Autonomous change, near-decomposability
commitment to information and replication works out or not and differences in temporal order
(which is irrelevant for the topic of this paper), their account
does unfortunately not offer a detailed justification of the (a) The take-off autonomy of cultural inheritance
more basic divide between cultural and biological inheritance. The first justification I offer for regarding cultural and bio-
They simply employ it in order to introduce the further distinc- logical inheritance as independent lies in the frequently
tions involved in their account. The account presented here is mentioned autonomous change of culture. Even though culture
thus meant as a complement to their model, but one that is can be very conservative (changing slowly), it can (if needed)
neutral with respect to their claims about the special features change very quickly. If it does so, culture is like a fast track of
of informational transmission. evolution and changes without a concomitant change in the
Equally consistent with the account developed here is biologically inherited resources of the respective population.
Odling-Smee’s [19,20] theory of niche inheritance. He dis- Change introduces variation in time, and over time that vari-
tinguishes biological inheritance from niche inheritance by ation is visible also in space. Hence, the fact that culture can
characterizing the first as direct transmission happening change without a concomitant change in biologically inherited
internal to the organism and the second as indirect trans- resources explains why—over evolutionary and developmen-
mission happening outside the respective organisms. The tal time—culturally inherited developmental resources may
account I present in the following is not in opposition to vary in space and time (and often do so) even if the relevant
his account since I take his account to entail that cultural biologically inherited developmental resources do not.
inheritance is a case of external-to-the-body niche inheritance. It follows that culture can take-off and is in that sense
It is distinct from pure ecological inheritance, which does not ‘superorganic’: autonomously changing and varying. How
involve any social learning, but, at the same time, a crucial that looks like over time has been nicely depicted in a
component of the broader category ‘niche inheritance’ since graph from Alfred L. Kroeber’s famous [22] paper The
it circumscribes ‘the primary means by which humans Superorganic (figure 1).
engage in the universal process of niche construction,’ As Kronfeldner [10] explained, Kroeber’s account is
as Odling-Smee & Laland [21, p. 220] write. Interestingly, built on an anti-Lamarckian concept of inheritance that