bias is not known. Does each vervet learn through its own to the best models in a sizeable social group. By relating cra-
efforts that the behaviour of females is more likely than the nial volume to social network size, Gamble, Gowlett and
behaviour of males to have a desirable outcome, or can Dunbar estimate that H. heidelbergensis lived in social net-
young vervets learn to attend more closely to females by works of 100-150 recognized individuals [73,74]. A more
watching the watching-behaviour of adults? recent estimate, incorporating archaeological data alongside

The existing evidence leaves a great deal of uncertainty as cranial volume, revised this downwards to 60-120 [75]. But
to when the ability to socially learn attentional biases first even a group size of 60 is enough to create a problem. As
evolved. We conjecture that it was in place in Homo erectus group size grows, it becomes increasingly difficult for a
well before 700000 years ago, when the next steps in our juvenile to learn who the best experts are at specific skills
account begin. It may have evolved much earlier. Although purely by tracking the gaze of their parents. Juveniles
we suspect that socially learned attentional biases have might learn to attend to elders when uncertain about an
been far more important for hominins than for other species, important ecological fact, but they will not reliably find
we do not rule out the possibility that some other animals do their way to the most knowledgeable elder. The problem is
learn attentional biases from their parents, and that these that they are not making explicit judgements about whom
learned attentional biases have been shaped by CS1. should, and who should not, be copied in particular

Research on ‘shared attention’ and ‘joint attention’ in con- domains. It is simply that their attention is reliably drawn
temporary children often assumes that these phenomena to some models rather than others by relatively low-level,
require an understanding of others’ psychological states [68]. domain-general psychological processes. Because learners
By contrast, Step 2 in our self-assembly model does not require are not reliably able to find the most technically accomplished
mindreading. For social learning of attentional bias, learners models in large groups, in Steps 1 and 2 we do not yet have
need to track models looking-behaviour, not their mental states. conditions in which small improvements to an established

Inso far as attentional biases are transmitted from parents technique can spread reliably and rapidly.