We should be cautious, however, in drawing too strong Model 1. If there are multiple high-payoff traits, i.e. multiple
conclusions from lab experiments, and too closely identifying cultural lineages, then cultural selection may generate cross-
biased transformation with cognition. It is possible that the cultural divergence if different populations converge on
same cognitive mechanism can underpin both biased trans- different solutions to a problem. However, if there is some
formation and cultural selection.* For example, experimental migration or inter-cultural transmission [51], then again mul-
studies using the transmission chain method [68], where infor- tiple populations may converge on the same solution. Model
mation is passed from individual to individual along linear 2 simulates this latter scenario.
chains, have identified an advantage for emotionally salient Assume now that there are discrete cultural traits struc-
information in cultural evolution, particularly content that eli- tured as shown in figure 3. There is a single intuitive or
cits a reaction of disgust [69,70]. However, this could in attractive trait, X. This might be blood-letting as a medical
principle occur via either biased transformation or cultural practice, for example. Assume it has a payoff of zero, and
selection (or both): individuals may directionally transform that the same biased transformation process as implemented
what they receive from others to make it more disgusting in Model 1 favours trait X (in fact, blood-letting is suggested
(biased transformation), and/or they may preferentially to decrease fitness due to the greater chance of blood infec-
attend to, acquire and pass on more disgusting material than tions [34], but for our purposes fitness neutrality is a
less disgusting material (cultural selection). reasonable conservative assumption). There are also three
One study demonstrated that both of these dynamics are trait lineages, A, B and C, representing increasingly effective
present and can cause the spread of disgusting information as (high payoff) solutions to the same problem. They might rep-
people both transformed and selectively acquired and passed resent, for example, herbal medicine, allopathic medicine and
on disgusting material [69]. Most transmission chain exper- surgery. Each lineage has five cumulative levels. These are
iments, however, can by design only detect transformation cumulative in the sense that the preceding trait (e.g. B3)
[68]. It is sometimes argued that because a particular form must be known before the subsequent trait (e.g. B4) can be
is favoured at the end of an experimental transmission acquired, and they increase in payoffs (e.g. B4 has higher
chain [71], then this indicates that biased transformation is payoff than B3). Consequently, the same cultural selection
the dominant force in real-world cultural evolution [32]. Yet process as implemented in Model 1, selective payoff-biased