
timestep

Figure 4. Indicative runs of Model 2. In each plot, each row represents a single individual, and columns represent time steps. Each row therefore shows how an
individual's cultural trait changes over time. Traits are colour-coded according to figure 3, with the intuitive trait X shown in grey, the A lineage in oranges, B lineage
in greens and C lineage in purples. The darker the shading, the higher the trait payoff. Individuals are in one of three groups separated with dotted lines, with ten
individuals per group. The top plot shows how biased transformation via 8 generates cross-cultural stability, with each group independently converging on the
attractive trait X. The middle plot shows divergence due to cultural selection via s, with each group converging on a different trait lineage. The bottom plot shows
convergence on the highest-payoff lineage (C), as migration via m causes C traits to spread to other groups. 3, strength of biased transformation; s, probability of
cultural selection; m, probability of between-group migration. In all cases, o=1, n=10, d=0.5 and g =3. (Online version in colour.)


effective forms of a trait would indicate cultural selection. One cannot be taken as evidence for one or the other. In fact,

might also track instances of migration or between-society con- there are multiple causes of apparent cross-cultural stability:
tact that bring traits across historical group boundaries, which biased transformation due to universal cognitive mechanisms
would indicate convergence via cultural selection. Again, violin or inductive biases, biased transformation due to individual
f-holes might be a good real-world example of both of these (e.g. reinforcement) learning in similar ecological conditions,
cases, given that they were shown to gradually improve over sev- cultural selection due to payoff-biased copying in similar eco-
eral centuries towards higher-payoff (i.e. better acoustic quality) logical conditions, or cultural selection combined with
forms, and that all modern violins have converged on the same migration (as in Model 2).
design due to communication and comparison across different For both directional change and cross-cultural stability,
inventor lineages [66]. further historical and experimental evidence is needed to ident-
Finally, experimental evidence can be used to explore ify the dynamics generating that phenomenon. The empirical
whether a cross-culturally stable cultural trait is attractive or examples discussed above should indicate that there is evi- ==