vertebrate species (but not bacteria and viruses). A third possi- refers to variation in language traits arising through complex pro-
bility might be that cultures consist of core, vertically inherited cesses of differential transmission. For example, many linguistic
traditions, but also contain some peripheral traits that are sub- traits represent a complex of smaller entities that tend to evolve
ject to much greater horizontal transmission. Finally, cultures together; as a result, languages may exhibit certain parallel
could represent assemblages of coherent clusters, whereby changes long after separation, a phenomenon commonly
phylogenetic methods might be appropriate on a cluster-by- known as drift among linguists [68,69]. The resulting evolution-
cluster basis, but only if cluster boundaries and the relative ary scenarios can be difficult to reconcile with a single tree.
importance of vertical versus horizontal transmission within Figure 2 expands on List [70] with an example informed by
clusters can be identified. Related to this last scenario is the Kroonen [71] to illustrate how the seemingly non-tree-like evol-
phenomenon of incomplete lineage sorting, well known in ution of linguistic traits can be reconciled with an overall
evolutionary biology as a source of historical incongruences. language phylogeny by invoking both sociolinguistic and
In biology, incomplete lineage assortment occurs when linguistic variation. Here, linguistic variation is reflected in
differences in genealogies are observed across some genetic the fact that words in the Indo-European languages often
loci and also with the overarching species tree. It results from have complex paradigms that were differently transmitted
incomplete sorting of an ancestral polymorphism during suc- during the evolution of the Indo-European languages. As a
cessive speciation events, leading to gene trees that coalesce at result, a word like English ‘sun’ reflects an ancient genitive
different points in time [64]. Remarkably, for instance, whole- (or more properly ‘oblique’) form, while a word like Spanish
genome analysis of the great apes has indicated that approxi- ‘sol’ reflects an ancient nominative (rectus) form. Although
mately 30% of our genome supports that humans split from both languages are related, they show different word forms
chimpanzees earlier than they split from gorillas, or that these for the concept ‘sun’, owing to a specific form of linguistic
two species split from humans earlier than they split from variation that was inherited by many descendants of the
each other [65]. That gene trees are not always congruent with Indo-European language. But linguistic variation is only one
species trees highlights the inevitability that cultural trait phylo- factor contributing to patterns that seem to contradict a given
genies will not always display the same topology even when the phylogeny. Another very common source of variation is socio-
underlying cultural history is completely tree-like. linguistic variation due to the fact that each language variety is