whether A is a necessary precondition to B or vice versa. changes differ in different parts of the sample? 2
For example, consider ‘social complexity’, a central trait in Traits may show different evolutionary patterning in different =
the debate over whether moral gods precede or postdate language families and/or in different parts of the world. 8
the emergence of complex societies [59,60]. In an examination Take, for example, post-marital residence (whether a new — _,
of the robusticity of the measure of social complexity, married couple live with his, her or neither set of parents). o
Miranda & Freeman [61] show how two societies with radi- Given the range of ecological, technological and institutional |
cally different social organizations can look the same in factors that have been shown to influence this cultural pat- — w
terms of a unidimensional measure of social complexity. By tern, it is hardly surprising that there are contradictory >
exploring beyond the first principal component of a society's findings between different studies conducted on different Ss
social complexity ranking (see also [62]), the authors develop samples (as discussed in [50,66]). These can usefully be =
a scale that could add considerable nuance to the conclusion thought of as lineage-specific effects with respect to the pat-
(made from transition analyses) that societal complexity cau- terning of evolutionary transitions [49]. As long as the
sally preceded moralizing gods. The fact that often only sample sizes in each part of the sample are sufficient for
coarse codings are available in no way invalidates phyloge- inference, this diversity should be seen as a strength of phy-
netic (or any other comparative) analyses, but clearly logenetically based global comparisons, providing material
impedes the strength of precise inference, particularly with with which to sharpen our understanding of the precise con-
respect to sequences [48]. Furthermore, it bears stressing ditions under which particular evolutionary transitions
that breaking down traits into multiple states will likely occur. In short, while there may be a justification for aiming
make it harder to identify phylogenetic signal, if finer grain to test classical hypotheses at increasingly global scales
traits are more likely to change (as discussed in §2b(ii)). (e.g. [60]), failure to find generalized support may actually
More generally, for each of these data-related problems be highly informative. In a similar vein, we might expect to
discussed in this section, starting from a clear theoretical find different evolutionary dynamics in agricultural versus
framework that outlines the specific predicted relationships foraging societies, rendering problematic inferences made
among well-defined variables can help to decide whether from current samples that are typically dominated by agri-
the empirical data available are adequate to the question at culturalists, who (as in our opening metaphor) offer only a