
Figure 2. C elegans multigenerational immune priming responses are highly specific to each bacterial pathogen. (a) The P. aeruginosa PA14 strain is able to induce
transgenerational pathogen avoidance behaviour. This occurs directly in the exposed generation and persists for four generations after exposure [45,46]. (6) 5.
typhimurium and the P. aeruginosa PAQ1 strain trigger increased dauer formation in progeny. This persists for five generations after removal from the pathogen
[111]. (od) Larval pathogen resistance after brief parental exposure is observed against P. vranovensis. Increased larval survival is observed in the direct offspring of
exposed parents after a single parental exposure and in the grand-offspring after three generations of pathogen priming [108]. Purple signifies proteins required for
the multigenerational response, green signifies upregulated genes. CYSL-1 and CYSL-2, cysteine synthases; RHY-1, hypoxia inducible factor.

epimutations that occur 25 times more frequently than DNA behaviour in a process that requires both functional P granules
sequence changes and last anywhere from 2 to 10 generations and components of the piRNA and RNAi pathways [46]. Inter-
[110]. It seems plausible that L1 starvation, with its high leth- estingly, this PA14 ncRNA has homology to a native C. elegans
ality rate and the level of selection required to see a gene, maco-1, and RNAi against this gene is sufficient to induce
transgenerational response, may in fact be selecting for one this transgenerational learning behaviour [46]. Could this indi-
of these transient epimutations. cate an immune pathway by which C. elegans incorporates the

bacterial genome? Or do the bacteria incorporate C. elegans
genes to disguise themselves from the host? Or is this hom-

(b) Pathogen exposure ology just purely coincidental? Either way, it is clear to see
Multigenerational immune priming is a type of phenotypic how advantageous it would be to have offspring that naturally
plasticity by which parental exposure to a pathogen alters avoid a virulent pathogen in a highly targeted manner, given
their offspring’s immune defences. This process encompasses that Pseudomonas species are a major C. elegans food source
what we would define as both transgenerational and interge- [45]. This epigenetic response is able to occur far faster than
nerational effects and has been observed across a wide range DNA sequence changes and so it is beneficial to use this fast,
of taxa. plastic response even if avoidance occurs for only four