impact of TE sequences on the methylation status of adjacent the derived alleles of CMT2 and NRPE1 are not distributed
regions. In turn, these findings highlight the need to take into randomly across the world but rather in relation to specific cli-
account TE insertion polymorphisms before concluding that mates [24,51,59,61]. Thus, it is tempting to speculate that the
heritable epivariants are true epialleles. Moreover, investi- moderate reduction of mCHH caused by genetic trans modi-
gations in maize of sites where DNA transposons have fiers over thousands of TE sequences across the genome

been inserted then excised show little evidence of an epige- participates in local adaptation.

netic memory [58]. Thus, even when excision restores Although these genetic trans modifiers provide a natural
precisely the original target site, it is unlikely to provide an counterpart to those used experimentally to determine the
efficient means by which heritable bona fide epiallelic vari- epiallelic potential of TE-containing alleles, it is not known
ation can be generated. In the light of this consideration, it what fraction of the natural epivariants they generate rep-
is in turn unclear if the DNA methylation observed in A. thali- resent true epialleles. As a matter of fact, based on the
ana in regions adjacent to deletions [49] reflects true epiallelic many lines of experimental evidence indicating that residual
inheritance following clean excision rather than allelic epivar- methylation prevents stable inheritance of the hypometh-
iation maintained because of the excision footprints that most ylated state, the moderate loss of mCHH caused by the
DNA transposons leave. derived alleles of NRPE1 and CMT2 is unlikely to generate
The large amount of methylome data obtained from natu- true epiallelic variation. In marked contrast, a sizable frac-
ral A. thaliana accessions was leveraged to perform genome- tion (between 30 and 40%) of the stable TE-associated
wide association studies (GWASs), which identified major epialleles identified experimentally using ddm1 or null
trans modifiers of DNA methylation variation at TE sequences RdDM mutants overlap with epivariants of similar ‘flavour’
(figure 2b) [51,59]. Three trans modifiers stand out as they map (ie. pronounced hypomethylation at CG, CHG and CHH
to genes known to be involved in RADM (NRPE1, AGO!) or sites) in nature [22,62] (figure 1). We can, therefore,
other DNA methylation pathways that target TEs (CMT2) assume that these epivariants are also stably inherited inde-
[60]. However, the range of DNA methylation differences pendently of any DNA sequence change in cis or in trans,