and genetic effects within relevant environmental contexts any transgenerational/epigenetic effects in an environmental
(figure 1). context that spans across multiple generations. However, it is
The adaptive significance of parental effects and transge- also necessary for empirical studies to clearly distinguish
nerational effects generally (including epigenetic effects) will between genetic, epigenetic and other sources of transgenera-
depend on the nature of environmental variation [17,37,38]: tional variation. We expand on these points below,
in predictable environments, with high autocorrelation considering the current empirical evidence of the role of epi-
between parental and offspring environments, the parental genetics in adaptation, and identifying what further evidence
trait/value is a good predictor of the fittest trait value in we need to determine the expected extent of the contribution
the current generation, and so beneficial parental effects are of epigenetics to climate adaptation. Our aim is to highlight
expected to evolve and facilitate adaptive shifts [25,37]. How- the experimental approaches currently being used to study
ever, when the environment becomes less predictable from the ecological and evolutionary consequences of epigenetic
one generation to the next, theory suggests that parental effects, their strengths, their limitations and some of the
effects may in fact become deleterious and thus impede adap- most exciting opportunities for future research (table 1).

tation [25]. For epigenetic mechanisms, the situation becomes
more complicated because it depends on how the environ-

ment affects the persistence versus reversibility of 3. Empirical j + as f th . d
epigenetic marks. Theoretical predictions arising from the . Empirica investigations of the genetic an

phenotypic plasticity literature also suggest epigenetic effects epigenetic contributions to phenotypic
should be selectively favoured when environments vary, but eae .
the parental environment predicts the offspring environment variation and adaptation
39]. However, when epigenetic marks persist across more Early work on the evolutionary potential of epigenetic vari-
than a generation, even if offspring fitness effects are predict- ation focused on the relationship between epigenomic