iation maintained because of the excision footprints that most ylated state, the moderate loss of mCHH caused by the
DNA transposons leave. derived alleles of NRPE1 and CMT2 is unlikely to generate
The large amount of methylome data obtained from natu- true epiallelic variation. In marked contrast, a sizable frac-
ral A. thaliana accessions was leveraged to perform genome- tion (between 30 and 40%) of the stable TE-associated
wide association studies (GWASs), which identified major epialleles identified experimentally using ddm1 or null
trans modifiers of DNA methylation variation at TE sequences RdDM mutants overlap with epivariants of similar ‘flavour’
(figure 2b) [51,59]. Three trans modifiers stand out as they map (ie. pronounced hypomethylation at CG, CHG and CHH
to genes known to be involved in RADM (NRPE1, AGO!) or sites) in nature [22,62] (figure 1). We can, therefore,
other DNA methylation pathways that target TEs (CMT2) assume that these epivariants are also stably inherited inde-
[60]. However, the range of DNA methylation differences pendently of any DNA sequence change in cis or in trans,
associated with natural variation at these genes is more limited thus representing bona fide natural epialleles. However,
compared with that achieved using experimental knockout the natural counterparts of ddm1- or nrpd1-induced epialleles
(KO) mutants [59]. In fact, the reduction of mCHH explained are presumably not generated through genetic deficiencies
by the derived alleles of NRPE1 at RdDM-targeted TE that cause strong and widespread DNA methylation loss,
sequences resembles that of experimentally generated hypo- because such deficiencies become rapidly non-viable upon
morphic alleles with similar sequence defects [54]. In turn, repeated selfing (e.g. [63,64]). Indeed, ddm1 deficiencies or
these observations suggest that severe and widespread loss null nrpd1 alleles have not been observed in nature. Thus,
of methylation at TE sequences is strongly counter-selected we must conclude that natural stable epialleles are most
in nature, a conclusion further supported by the fact that the likely generated either spontaneously or in response to the

derived alleles of CMT2 and NRPE1 associated with reduced environment.


rate
(per site per generation)