takes the form of moderate DNA methylation changes and it global picture emerges where natural selection is unlikely to
is consistently of limited transgenerational stability in exper- act directly on TE-associated epivariants, but rather on the
imental settings. Although this type of epivariation cannot corresponding TE-containing alleles. Moreover, given their
contribute to heritable adaptations because of its transient environmental sensitivity, it is tempting to speculate that
nature, it is uniquely suited to be invoked at once across TE-containing alleles are key determinants of phenotypic
the genome and therefore to produce concerted, multigenic plasticity in plants. In turn, they could provide a mechanistic
expression responses to biotic and abiotic environmental basis for the notion first formulated by C. H. Waddington,
insults. and amply confirmed since, that phenotypic plasticity is a

By contrast to these two sources of moderate epivariation, genetic property and as such represents a character upon
spontaneous severe epivariation can be stably transmitted which natural selection can act (see review by Loison [158]
across generations, suggesting that it is the prevalent source in this theme issue for a historical perspective).
of heritable TE-associated epialleles in nature. However, The fact that environmentally induced loss of DNA
their rate of occurrence across the genome is not significantly methylation over TEs, even transient, can potentially trigger
higher than that of SNPs, which limits their potential to their mobilization is perhaps the most evolutionarily relevant
contribute to rapid adaptation. attribute of TE-associated epivariation. Indeed, while the

Irrespective of the origin and stability of TE-associated epiallelic memory of environmental stresses may be lost
epivariants, the experimental demonstration of their func- within one or two generations, its translation into the creation
tional impact at the individual level has been very limited of new TE-containing alleles, often with similar epigenetic
so far. Such endeavours should be greatly facilitated by the properties, provides hard-wired opportunities for the flexible
newly offered possibilities of targeted epigenome editing exploration of the phenotypic space (figure 4). Presumably as
using CRISPR-dCas9 systems with methylase or demethylase a result of evolutionary adjustments, some TEs exhibit
activity [156,157]. marked insertion preferences towards environmentally
