such behaviours as counterfinal means [10,11]. These are nificance and is perhaps one of the oldest narratives used
ways of comporting oneself that promise great rewards, but by propagandists to produce ideologues marching in lockstep
also come with a hefty price tag. to the drumbeat of extremism.

Consider drinking alcohol: consumption is a means that Remarkably, even rats, which communicate among each
serves a goal (such as coping with negative affectivity), with other using high-frequency sounds, are prone to developing
potentially harmful health consequences. The same rationale addictions when their social needs are not met. While rats do
could be applied to political activists during a protest. Political not engage in kamikaze behaviours like other species (such as
violence (e.g. throwing petrol bombs at the police) might pro- some worker ants, honeybees and wasps [26-28]), they do exhibit
vide activists with a sense that they are making headway self-destructive tendencies. For instance, when rats are housed in
towards achieving their political ends, but the cost might be enriched environments known as ‘rat parks’, which provide
years in jail, or worse, a death sentence. These actions are room to roam, play, socialize and mate, they are less likely
taken voluntarily. In fact, motivation science indicates that the to self-administer morphine than rats isolated in a standard
greater the perceived cost associated with counterfinal means, laboratory cage [29]. Again, this shows that addictions have a
the more people perceived them as instrumental to the goal self-regulatory purpose, in that they are attempts to restore
they purportedly serve. That is because people generally fundamental needs, especially when the environment does not
believe in a ‘no pain, no gain’ heuristic that becomes especially provide viable routes to satisfaction. From this standpoint,
salient when reaching one’s goal seems unlikely [10,11]. addictions in general, and ideological obsessions in particular,

What this shows is that addictions are goal-driven. Far are coping mechanisms, a latent potential that expresses itself
from being a trifling observation, this formulation implies that, under particular social circumstances. An important corollary
although self-defeating, addictions are self-regulatory successes is that ideological obsession is a psychological process whereby
(one sets a goal and achieves it) rather than failures, an idea that individuals progressively become obsequious servants to an
runs counter to the widespread assumption that addictions reflect ideology. Let us examine how this process unfolds.
