members [21]. Partisans also underestimate how much they group meta-perceptions in competitive contexts, reframing
agree with out-party member views, which drives overestima- the same intergroup interactions as cooperative yields accurate
tion of the negative affect associated with exposure to opposing meta-perceptions across both parties [33]. Among Israelis and
views and reduced consumption of opposing views [22]. Palestinians, group meta-perception accuracy was associated
Several scholars have begun to investigate whether cor- with perceived political losses/gains after a conflict incident
recting first-order belief inaccuracy can attenuate intergroup (a feature of the intergroup context), but not by participants’
animus. A growing body of work conducted after the 2016 political knowledge, left-right orientation or empathy for the
US President Election has found that fact-checking is success- outgroup [34]. Finally, the belief that one is dehumanized by
ful at increasing belief accuracy [23-25]; however, many such outgroups (meta-dehumanization) is independent of one’s
interventions focus on correcting factual beliefs about the prejudice towards the outgroup [30].
world/public policy (e.g. beliefs about crime statistics) These intergroup context-contingent patterns of meta-
rather than inaccurate meta-cognitive beliefs. Evidence that perception accuracy parallel research on dyadic meta-
correcting such factual beliefs reduces actual polarization is perceptions, where the relationships between people are
weak, because fact-checking is less effective when the correc- generally better predictors of accuracy than attributes of the indi-
tive information is directly counter-attitudinal (i.e. debunking viduals. For example, meta-perceptions become significantly
personal ideology) relative to when it is unrelated to ideo- less accurate in competitive versus cooperative work contexts
logy [26]. By contrast, addressing first-order misperceptions 35], paralleling the findings from [33]. Also, in relationships
regarding polarization appears to be promising. For example, research, the nature of the relationship (ie. strangers, friends
an informational intervention correcting inaccurate percep- or romantic partners) is a much stronger predictor of meta-
tions of out-party policy extremity actually reduced perceptive accuracy than how much individuals like each

participants’ own attitude extremity [27], providing direct other or perceive the relationship to be of high quality [36,37].


Insummary, inaccurate second-order beliefs (meta-percep- and across judgements as the linear relationship between per-