
PUBLISHING © 2021 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


on this topic is needed, particularly to get a better picture of for the rise of mutual animosity between those who

how populist attitudes influence political behaviour across identify with dissimilar political parties are quite different in
countries, yet political science scholars should try to leave multiparty systems than in two-party systems.
their comfort zone and establish links with other disciplines. Even though the distinction between positive and negative

An interdisciplinary approach to populism has the poten- partisanship was made more than 50 years ago, it has started
tial to resolve one of the main lacunae in the existing academic to receive growing academic attention only in the past decade.
literature on this topic: the analysis of the psychological Part of the reason for this lies in the fact that empirical evidence
characteristics of populist supporters in general and of the shows declining levels of positive identification with political
degree to which voting for populist forces is related to parties, so scholars have begun to examine the extent to which
internal/individual processing systems of political infor- negative partisanship might be crucial to understanding how
mation (an important exception is the work of Vasilopoulos individuals relate to the political world today. Seen in this
and Jost [4]). Given that populist actors are gaining presence light, the rejection rather than the approval of political offers = =
ina broad array of countries around the world, it is becoming is key when it comes to explaining the choices made by +
evident that macro-structural factors, such as economic devel- voters. For instance, empirical studies of the United States Ss
opment and trends in socioeconomic inequality, are of little of reveal that examining animosity towards the Democratic =
help to understanding the global rise of populism [1]. In other Party or the Republican Party is a powerful mechanism for 5!
words, despite important advances in the existing research on predicting the electorate’s behaviour [10]. At the same time, = >
populism undertaken by political scientists, there is a research a recent study undertaken before the 2019 election for the =
gap in the study of the psychological factors that influence the European Parliament reveals that populist radical right parties = &