In this paper, we tested prominent hypotheses on the servative (right-wing), ideologies were more cooperative with
relation between political ideology, cooperation and national strangers. These results contribute to our understanding of
parochialism in an international experiment involving 42 how the expression of individual differences in social beha-
nations around the globe. Overall, we found that liberals, viours can be favoured by certain institutional conditions
compared to conservatives, cooperated more with unrelated (e.g. countries characterized by high quality of institutions).
strangers independently of group membership. Moreover, Similar to findings on gender differences around the globe
liberals showed less national parochialism compared to con- [39], we found that individual differences in political ideology
servatives. These differences seemed particularly driven by were more predictive of behaviour in nations with higher qual-
extreme liberal views, instead of extreme conservative views ity of institutions and more favourable ecological conditions
(see results on political extremism in the electronic supplemen- (ie. lower historical prevalence of infectious diseases).
tary material, ยง2.7). Contrary to previous research [7], our results These results contribute to our understanding of the role of
support theories that posit the existence of core differences in cultural institutions and ecologies in shaping the political brain
beliefs, values and behaviours among people of different ideol- and psychology around the globe [40,41]. In fact, political
ogies [5]. However, we found these effects in a limited number of orientations have been hypothesized to be related to relevant
nations and, similar to previous research [7], the magnitude of physiological, psychological and behavioural differences
the effect of the relation between political ideology and [542-44]. However, other research questioned some of these
cooperation was small (see electronic supplementary material). findings and highlighted similarities (rather than differences)

This suggests that although there are differences in how people in the behaviour and physiological responses among people
cooperate in social dilemmas based on their political ideology, with different worldviews [27,45]. These different results
research should be cautious in not overestimating the role of may be owing to the restricted number of nations (e.g. nations
ideology in social dilemmas. In fact, it is possible that other with higher GDP like the USA) and samples used in research
individual differences (e.g. personality [13]), or contextual fac- on the neuroscience and psychology of political ideology. In
tors (e.g. punishment, communication [37,38]), explain more fact, we found that individual differences in political ideology
variance on how people behave in social dilemmas. are more remarkable in societies with specific institutions,