likely under-estimations.

Previous work on human structural variation showed that
the number of SVs was non-randomly distributed along each
chromosome with the greatest density occurring within 5 Mb
of the telomeric chromosomal ends [48]. The pbsv pipeline’s
conservative approach to annotating SVs located towards the
ends of chromosomes means that putative terminal SVs

3. Results are not flagged as a PASS and as such were not included
for further analysis here (see Methods). This results in the
(a) Hemizygosity and heterozygosity in molluscs appearance that hemizygosity is diminished at the terminal
Hemizygosity (flagged as deletions by pbsv) of the individual regions of chromosomes and highlights the fact that the num-
representatives of the eight molluscan species investigated bers of hemizygous regions reported here are conservative
here ranged from 0.17% of the total genome length in the lower estimates (figure 1d).
giant African snail Achatina (=Lissachatina, [45,46}]) fulica to Focusing on deletions over 10 kb in length and which
6.69% in the ark clam Scapharca broughtonii (table 1). If inser- were not flagged as tandem-repeat associated by pbsy, it is
tions relative to the reference genome are also considered, evident that large hemizygous regions are not confined to
the hemizygosity of A. fulica and S. broughtonii increase to particular chromosomes or chromosomal regions in any of
0.37% and 10.81%, respectively (table 1). The A. fulica hemi- the eight species investigated (figure 2). Although there are
zygosity content was a clear outlier among the eight species a large number of hemizygous regions in all species, there
with the next lowest belonging to the octopus Octopus sinensis is a clear difference in the number of larger deletions present
at 1.74% (2.81% inclusive of insertions), while the congeneric in the bivalves versus the gastropods and cephalopods
Achatina (=Lissachatina) immaculata had 4.22% hemizygous (figures 1b and 2). This seems to also translate into the pro-
DNA content (8.06% inclusive of insertions). The number portion of the genomes that are hemizygous in each of the