to event representation rather than individual actions or can be outlined as follows: (i) the narrative representation
objects makes pantomime an ideal means of expression for of reality characterizes the cognition (the system of beliefs)
narrative representation. In this sense, pantomime is different of individuals in a perspectival form, i.e. each subject
from isolated gestures, which are characterized by move- always represents reality from a certain point of view; (ii) con-
ments with clear boundaries and correspond to discrete versation is a form of communication characterized by the
concepts. Indeed, as highlighted by McNeill, pantomime ‘is different (often, divergent) points of view of interlocutors;

dumb-show, a gesture or sequence of gestures conveying a (iii) the different points of view of interlocutors constitute a


selective pressure towards forms of communication founded distinction between honest and deceptive information, in

on reciprocal persuasion; (iv) conversation is the evolutionary fact, is not the only option in place: conversational exchanges
reason, as we will see in ‘A triggering factor for grammar and are also characterized by the notion of opinion. Humans con-
speech’ section, for the invention by H. sapiens of a complex verse because their narrative representations of reality entail
grammar and articulated forms of speech in order to provide different visions of the world (the diversity of opinions
arguments aimed at both supporting and defending one’s characterizes conversational communication). Conversation
own point of view. That said, although modern language is the communicative exchange in which the speaker defends
has distinctive traits, it is nevertheless in continuity with her/his own perspectival view from the perspectival views of
archaic forms of communication. Specifically, pantomime other interlocutors [72,73] (this is not the only function
represented the primitive form of communication capable of conversation, but defending one’s own views from those ==>
of making humans able to persuade by telling stories. After of others only happens in conversation). Interlocutors’ = 5
stressing the importance of the features that allow us to con- reciprocal commitment to persuade each other allows conver- =
sider pantomime as a form of protolanguage that acted as a sation to move forward—conversation involves a form of § >
platform for the invention of modern language, it is now progression or a sequence of actions [74]. The interlocutor — __