persuasiveness: stories with strong arguments are more per- ing mechanisms’ [88, p. 303]. Cognitive architectures and
suasive than stories with weak arguments [82]. That said, if processes allowing children to learn language represent impor-

part of the persuasive power of narrative relies on argumen- fant constraints in the construction of a complex grammar [89].
tative strategies, it is legitimate to imagine that narrative In this view, the construction of grammar is a cultural rather

abilities further developed to make cognitive activities under- than a biological factor:

lying argumentation (elaboration and inference) possible: the Language is manifestly a socially learned, culturally transmitted
reciprocal persuasion required by the conversational level led system. Individuals acquire their knowledge of language by
to the development of representational structures supporting observing the linguistic behaviour of others, and go on to use
. . . . . . this knowledge to produce further examples of linguistic behav-
inferential processes. From this point of view, conversation jour, which others can learn in turn (...). The fact that language is
was a triggering factor for the emergence of grammar. socially learned and culturally transmitted opens up a second
possible explanation for the design features of language: those
: . features arose through cultural, rather than biological, evolution.
(b) A triggering factor for grammar and speech Rather than traditional transmission being another design feature
Within the scenario we are outlining, grammar is the product that a biological account must explain, traditional transmission is
of selective pressures governed by pragmatics: the use of the feature from which the other structural properties of

language in conversational contexts is the triggering factor language spring [89, p. 3594].
for the transition from archaic forms of language to modern An alternative model to grammaticalization regards language
ones. Specifically, the evolution of complex grammar is an as a biological organ rather than a cultural construct. There
adaptive response to the use of stories in conversational are two ways of interpreting language as a biological organ.
exchanges. The point to start with is that defending one’s The first, which can be referred to the Chomskyan tradition,