on the view that communication is fundamentally competitive Indeed, several investigations have demonstrated that
and evolves to manipulate receivers, rather than to faithfully higher scores on the post-exposure transportation scale
inform them: signals serve to make the receiver respond in were associated with a stronger persuasive impact of stories =>
ways that provide advantages for the sender, regardless of any (e.g. [28,30,31]). An important element of the process of trans- 5
benefits for the receiver. In their opinion, ‘communication ... portation into a story world is imagery production, i.e. the =
could be characterized as a means by which one animal generation of visual, mental representations of a narrative ©
makes use of another animal’s muscle power’ [8, p. 283]. The scene that has properties similar to the representations eli-
manipulative model has had a strong impact on animal com- cited by external stimuli [32]. This appears to be crucial to = =
munication scholars (e.g. [10-13]), but has also been criticized explain the persuasive power of narrative: mental imagery, 5!
for referring to a passive conception of the perceiver compared facilitating mental simulation of events in a story, may lead = >
to the active role of the signaller. Indeed, as highlighted by Sey- individuals to adopt beliefs and intentions that are impli- =
farth et al. [5], proponents of the manipulative model assume cated by the sequence of events. In fact, while immersed in = &
that ‘listeners are automata that can be manipulated to respond a story, people are less aware of the real-world facts that con- iat
in ways beneficial to the signaller as long as the right nervous tradict assertions made in the narrative and, therefore, they >
system buttons are pushed’ [5, p. 4]. In the light of these criti- ‘may be less likely to disbelieve or counterargue story s
cisms, it may be useful, as suggested by Owren et al. [13], to claims, and thus their beliefs may be influenced’ [28, p. 703, Ss
replace ‘manipulation’ with ‘influence’. our emphasis]. S
In this article, we adhere to the model of influence Considering the effects of a narrative on audience mem-
arguing that, in addition to delineating a path of continuity bers in reference to forms of engagement, transportation
between animal and human communication, it paves the and imagery is a way to account for the difference between
way to the possibility of looking at the specificities of the persuasive effects of argumentative discourses and the
H. sapiens’ communication without forgetting the evolution- persuasive effects of stories. In argumentation speakers’ per-
ary links that language maintains with the most archaic suasive intentions are explicit. This has the consequence of
forms of communication. generating counterarguments, namely direct confutations
