
electronic supplementary material, SI-11, for more detail).
The results for mean relative errors in table 1 allow us to
propose a hierarchy of methods and baselines, as follows:

BTF, md < RBF, BTV, RBV, BRW, Div < rand, centr

To construct this hierarchy, we first ordered the methods and

4, Results baselines, separating them by the less-than symbol. Sub-
We first look at results for the different methods as distances sequently, we applied a pairwise Wilcoxon rank sum
in km (as the crow flies) from the true to the inferred home- significance test to assess the differences between neighbours
lands. For the Bayesian methods, we initially ignore the fact in the hierarchy and replaced the smaller-than sign by a
that they provide a set of plausible homelands, i.e. inferred comma when neighbours were not significantly different at
areas rather than single locations—for the purposes of a the 0.05 level. This step caused BTF/md, RBV/BRW /diversity
quantitative performance comparison it is necessary to oper- method (Div) and rand/centr to merge. We then iterated this
ate with a single location whose validity can be assessed as a procedure, also replacing the less-than sign with a comma
number. Nevertheless, later in this section, we also take into when there were non-significant differences between members
account the full set of credible origins (95% highest posterior of neighbouring groups. The resulting picture is the one where
density or HPD intervals) in comparison among the Bayesian there are just three groups. BayesTraits (specifically BTF)
methods. works best, followed by RevBayes (RBE RBV), BRW and
For the purpose of identifying the ‘best’ homeland accord- Div, which are rather indistinguishable. All the methods beat
ing to the Bayesian methods, we proceed as follows. For the baselines rand and centr, which provides a good sanity
BayesTraits (BTE, BTV), we select the location associated with check on the results. A surprising result, however, is that the
the highest likelihood (the software only outputs likelihoods, md (minimal distance) baseline shares the winning position