primary iconicity [36,38], where the similarity between of an interactional and wider cultural context ([50], [51]; see
expression and object is instantly recognizable and sufficient also Footnote 5).
for understanding that the former represents the latter. This To meet the definitional criteria of a sign, the pantomimic
contrasts with secondary iconicity, where this relation is expression and object must nevertheless be differentiable by
reversed: knowing that a given expression represents a the interpreter. Illustrative in this regard is Gardenfors’s
given object is a necessary condition for the similarity to be account of demonstration [29,52]. Demonstration is a form of
perceived. Zlatev et al. [4] illustrate the difference between bodily mimetic communication in which a teacher performs
primary and secondary iconicity with the example of a sign an action for the benefit of a student. It is defined as follows:
where a whole body enactment represents the action of ham-
mering (primary iconicity)> and another sign, where the — (D1) The demonstrator actually performs the actions
same meaning is represented by a clenched fist of one hand involved in the task.
performing the hammering movement against the palm of — (D2) The demonstrator makes sure that the learner
the other hand (secondary iconicity). In fact, most iconic attends to the series of actions.
signs fall along a scale of these two extremes. — (D3) The demonstrator intends that the learner perceives

the right actions in the correct sequence.
— (D4) The demonstrator exaggerates and slows down some

(c) Pantomime of the actions in order to facilitate the learner’s perception
In language origins, mimetic communication based on iconi- of their important features. [29]

city is commonly identified with pantomime [8,10,13,39].

Mimetic accounts of the evolution of communication draw If we substitute ‘communicator’ for ‘demonstrator’ and
attention to the fact that the original human-specific com- ‘addressee’ for ‘learner’, the only essential difference bet-