
non-breeding F. mechowii, a long-lived cooperative breeder. behavioural scale.


We further hypothesized that in F. mechowii, non-breeding Do the different stress loads experienced by conventional

individuals that have passed the conventional non-breeder and orphaned non-breeders in F. mechowii thus indeed lead to
status (either as breeders or orphans) have lower hair cortisol differences in longevity? Simply comparing Kaplan-Meier
levels than non-breeders living in intact families. Hair cortisol survival trajectories for both groups would have been an
measurements revealed that cortisol levels were significantly inappropriate approach because of circular reasoning: the
higher among conventional non-breeders than among bree- longer non-breeders live, the more likely they are to be
ders and orphaned non-breeders. These findings are in line orphaned; hence, cause and effect cannot be disentangled.
with our behavioural observations, a fact suggesting that We therefore addressed the hypothesis that the differences
differential aggression levels manifest themselves in concrete in cortisol levels were mirrored by different mortality rates
physiological stress responses of non-breeders during their of age-matched individuals that were in either the conven- ==>
conventional phase. These aggression levels are also princi- tional or the orphaned non-breeder phase. Our findings 5
pally congruent with significantly higher urinary cortisol indicate that for F. mechowii non-breeders, family constella- = =
levels that have previously been reported among female tion indeed affects the magnitude of mortality rates and the >
non-breeders of F. mechowii [26]. Our linear mixed models increase in age-specific mortality rates with increasing age. Ss
did not reveal an age effect, presumably because we corrected Across age cohorts in which sample sizes per status allowed = =
for several influential factors; however, our behavioural data for a fairly meaningful calculation of mortality rates (i.e. the =
indicate that stress levels of conventional non-breeders could first ca 6 years of life), non-breeders exhibited higher values a
increase with age (which is equivalent to an increase in family of, and a steeper increase in this parameter when living =
size), as long as these animals stay in the natal family and with both parents than after they were orphaned. However, = &
are involved in agonistic interactions with family members. the divergence of the regression lines decreased after aggres- =