3 absent non-VPL animals non-learned (juvenile) calls, no obvious babbling
S no obvious vocal production learning

Figure 1. A hypothesized comparative summary of relations between babbling and vocal production learning (VPL) in selected taxa. The top four rows represent
taxa for which at least some form of vocal learning is known. The first column represents known vocal-learning characteristics. |, imitation; N, incorporation of novel
sounds; AM, acoustic modification; AMI, auditory—motor integration; S, social feedback. Columns represent crude developmental stages (width is arbitrary). All vocal
learners show a stage of babbling as well as calls, but babbling onset may differ. Although vast numbers of vertebrates produce vocalizations communicatively,
many have never been reported to show VPL or babbling. The term ‘calls’ in the figure refers to vocalizations that are communicative already at developmental onset
(in contrast to song), with varying amounts of VPL. Calls may or may not be part of babbling depending on the call and the species. Song in songbirds, humming-
birds and greater sac-winged bats is shaped by VPL. The figure summarizes data from a variety of species that appear to support the working hypothesis that
babbling or some form of precursor vocalization in infancy may be a requirement for VPL, which often results in complex mature vocal repertoires.

play also similarly involves repetitive production of similar infants across the first year [30,31], another fact hinting at
vocal types. Given this similarity with object play, self- the endogenous motivation for protophone production.
motivated protophone production has also been called

‘vocal play’ [22] and has been thought of as a kind of practice,

just as object play has been treated as a learning endeavour. (f) Babbling after infant tracheostomy
Extensive exercise in babbling during the first year does not

appear to be a requirement for learning to talk, however.

(d) Vocal features, social There are infants with laryngeal anomalies who cannot voca-
Protophones in the first year are frequently produced with no lize because they require tracheostomy to breathe. After