tribution of traits) with simpler individual-level processes, ally, cultural traits are not strictly acquired from parents
such as variability, competition and inheritance. (vertical transmission). Instead, transmission can occur
Inspired by this progress, the now seminal works by between any individuals, from one-to-many or many-to-one.
Cavalli-Sforza & Feldman [15], Lumsden & Wilson [16] and And so, traits can also be acquired from peers (horizontal)
Boyd & Richerson [17] aimed collectively at a general or other adults (oblique); even inverse transmission from
theory of culture. The idea was to base this new theory on younger to older individuals is common. Moreover, biases
mathematical approaches from population dynamics and towards copying successful, powerful, prestigious, or other-
genetics to explain the distribution and change of traits in wise notable individuals can further modify the transmission
populations of individuals, be it genetic or cultural traits. dynamics [28]. The different transmission modes and biases,
To justify this approach, the authors assumed and outlined and their combinations, give rise to a large and complex
structural and conceptual analogies between biological and space of potential patterns and dynamics in the distribution
cultural evolution. At an abstract level, population-level pro- of cultural traits.
cesses in both domains are characterized by the continuous In fact, this space is so rich that the overwhelming amount
emergence, selective retention, and transmission of variation of cultural evolution research has primarily focused on cul-
[18-21]. Hence, analogies have been made between the forces tural transmission. What the aforementioned seminal books
driving the evolution of genetic traits (transmission, mutation, started has become a rich and vibrant research field that
drift and selection) and those driving the evolution of cultural has garnered much interest from researchers across disci-
traits (transmission, innovation, random fluctuations and plines, leading to a large number of recent books (e.g.
selection). Additionally, both types are characterized by obser- [1,11,29-31]) and themed journal issues (e.g. [32-35]). More-
vable phenomena (e.g. an adapted species and cumulative over, recent research articles show that the study of cultural
culture) that are high-level properties (of a species and a transmission is not only relevant for understanding what
population, respectively), which are the result of low-level shaped human origins, but also to make sense of what is hap-
interactions (at the level of individuals). Finally, both biological pening in the present, from the spread of news on social
and cultural evolution are cumulative processes. That is, traits media [36] to healthy behaviour in social networks [37],
evolve successively through repeatedly modifying, combining, and many other features of the ‘information age’. This devel-