violations of laws with an arbitrary threshold (e.g. speed liable. For example, if a truck driver hits a cyclist, American
limits, age of consent, school zone distances), compared to college students assign greater liability if the truck and the
violations of laws without an arbitrary threshold (e.g. reck- trip were being done for business [36]. Black argues these
less driving, sexual battery, drug distribution; [33]). American legal intuitions reflect the reappearance, in a new
In summary, we argue there is little evidence for places form, of traditional patterns. While ‘the organization is repla-
where the norm or default is to ignore other people’s mental cing the family in the compensation’, as ever ‘the liability of
states in moral judgement, either in the ethnographic or exper- groups is [less dependent on intentions] than the liability of
imental data. Rather, some domains or contexts of strict liability individuals’ [35, pp. 59-60]. Thus, corporate responsibility
probably exist in many and perhaps all cultures. What we need reduces the importance of individual actor’s mental states,
to explain is why the same person ina given society might take but such group-related blame is not only or typically charac-
the motivation of self-defence into account in exonerating teristic of kinship-intensive societies.
someone for battery, but not mistake of fact; or why mistake The role of intentions may also depend on the relational dis-
of fact might be exonerating for theft, but not for eating taboo tance between the person who caused harm, and the observing
meat. More generally, we need to explain why people some- judge. Some theorists have suggested that observers should
times disregard others’ mental states as a function of who care about a person’s intentions when those intentions are
they are, what they are doing, and why the judgement is diagnostic of the person’s future behaviour [26], and when
being made—as opposed to why mental states should not the observer can choose whether or not to interact with that
matter across the entire moral domain of a community. person in the future [25]. If a person cannot control the harm

they cause, then their intentions are irrelevant for their future

value in relationships [26,37]. On this view, intentions should
5. Context effects on mind-mindedness matter most at intermediate relational distances, when future
interactions are possible but not inevitable, and less for one-
shot interactions with complete strangers and for permanent