round round treatment

Figure 3. Participants’ PGG cooperative behaviour. Average group contributions in the three phases of the experiment by treatment. Error bars represent standard
errors of the mean over all independent groups. (Online version in colour.)

hypothesis [20,22,38] and with our Hla (Mann-Whitney their gossip strategy as the ratio of truthful and false messages.
(MW) test by individual averages: phase 1 and phase 2, Regression results can be found in table 2. Additional statistical
W=4109, **p=0.0019; phase 3, W= 5235.5, ***p < 0.001; MW analysis and results on participants’ behaviour can be found
test by group averages: phase 3, W= 100, ***p < 0.001). in the electronic supplementary material, section S3. In agree-

As predicted by the competitive altruism hypothesis, no ment with our H2, we find that participants use different
remarkable end-of-game effect on contributions is present gossip strategies depending on the treatment and phase they
in the COMP treatment. In fact, participants were even are in. In the NCOMP treatment, correlations between gossip
more generous in the last rounds of COMP phase 2 with and cooperation are weak, therefore there is no significant
respect to NCOMP, when the pressure to be chosen as part- difference between gossip behaviour of highly cooperative par-
ners was higher and generosity could increase one’s chance ticipants and lowly cooperative ones. In the COMP treatment,
of being selected during phase 3. In line with our H1b, differ- instead, highly cooperative participants more frequently sent
ences on individual average contributions by phase are truthful messages with respect to low-cooperative ones, with
enhanced and statistically significant the closer participants a positive correlation on their contribution level. This result
are to the end of the experiment (MW test by individual can be interpreted as cooperators increasing the number of
averages: phase 1, W= 3834, *p = 0.0306; phase 2, W= 4068, truthful messages and gossip reliability to gain a better repu-
*p = 0.0031). tation and emerge from the crowd as better contributors to be

In figure 4, we present the results at the individual level by chosen right before the partner selection of phase 3. For them,
