
in populations, without being necessarily socially transmitted Finally, in both the first and second generation of complex | 10 |

in their entirety. However, judging by the declining trans- two-step learners, we observed increasing behavioural diver-
mission rates from the complex first to complex second sity at site and subpopulation level. This was beyond the
generation experiment, we expect that the two-step behav- diversity observed at the individual level, indicating that
iour may not be able to be maintained long-term without variation in preferences were aggregating as the number of
the scaffolding provided by the progressive rewarding of individuals increased. However, diversity was still con-
each component. strained well below what is expected by chance, suggesting

Most birds in our study (nearly 80% of learners, 97% of all an overall shared set of preferences. This is expected when
birds) did not socially learn the full two-step solution as a com- the components of the two-step solution are socially learned,
plete behaviour. In fact, our results suggest that birds were also and thus constrain the subset of two-step variants available to
unlikely to acquire the complex behaviour from observation of be produced. The question inevitably arises whether this set
two-step solutions, but instead relied on observing other birds of shared preferences constitute cultural traditions? While it ==
producing the singular components. There may be many con- would not be consistent with our original definition of a =
tributing factors as to why this was the case. First, cognitive single, shared variant, such cultural polymorphisms are __
factors, such as limited attention, inhibition or object perma- well accepted in other systems [89]. For example, passerine — =
nence, might play a role, as learning the complex behaviour birds socially learn components of a song sequence, and = 5!
required the observation and production of twice as much while individuals may exhibit a unique subset of this  &
information. Naturally observed foraging behaviour in tits is sequence, vocabularies are still shared across populations as =
often extractive with one action (e.g. pulling bark to reveal dialects [90]. If one accepts that diversity in behaviours aris- = &
insects). However, tits can also spontaneously solve string- ing from such a mechanism remains cultural in nature, one =
pulling tasks, a fairly complex, multi-step process [79]. could also accept that the shared set of behaviours observed ~
Second, the low social tolerance and lack of prosocial behav- at the subpopulation level in great tits should constitute var-