
Figure 1. Formation of syllable categories during development. (a) Schematic showing use of acoustic space during song development. Primordial syllables are
similar to juvenile calls (often food begging calls). As song learning progresses, the sounds produced diversify and occupy a larger acoustic space, although pro-
duction constraints may limit which sounds can be sung. As learning proceeds, notes converge and become more stereotyped, forming clusters within the acoustic
space. (b) When each individual (denoted by a different colour) sings syllables that fall within narrow regions of acoustic space, and different individuals use
different parts of that acoustic space, there are no distinct population-wide categories. (c) Population-wide categories arise when the syllable clusters of different
individuals coincide in acoustic space.

in a population might converge upon the same subsets of to produce smaller frequency ranges within a single sound, as
acoustic space (figure 1c), forming distinct, population-wide the acoustic filtering provided by changes in beak aperture
acoustic categories. cannot change as quickly as in birds with smaller beaks [63-
In some species, there are innate predispositions for learn- 65]. Another form of articulatory categorization arises from
ing sounds that occupy distinct subregions of the acoustic the fact that songbirds have a two-part syrinx. Each syringeal
space. Peter Marler’s work was the first to investigate such half is associated with one bronchus, giving the entire syrinx
species-specific acoustic categories in detail: swamp sparrows two independent ‘voices’ [66,67]. The right syringeal half pro-
tutored with both swamp and song sparrow (Melospiza melodia) duces high-frequency sounds, while the left side produces
syllables include only swamp sparrow syllables in their own low-frequency sounds. This partitioning of frequencies between
songs, regardless of whether those syllables are arranged in the two sides of the vocal organ is consistent across a number of
species-typical syntax within the tutor songs [56,57]. A bias species, including canaries (Serinus canaria) [68,69], zebra
towards learning the sounds sung by one’s own species is finches [70] and brown-headed. cowbirds (Molothrus ater) [71].
also present in other songbirds, such as white-crowned spar- Specialization for different frequency ranges in the two sides
rows [58,59]. Birds raised hearing untutored, depauperate of the syrinx is also present in oilbirds (Steatornis caripensis)
songs of their own species [60,61]—or even hearing only record- [72], which are not songbirds and do not learn their vocaliza-
ings of their own developing vocalizations [62]—sing syllables tions, suggesting that the distinctive outputs of the two sides
and songs that are closer to the species-typical versions sung by of the vocal organ might form a physiological basis for the