tules’ were then learned as well. Critically, these different repeated identical syllables, some of which are modified and = >
aspects of learning appear to build upon each other, some- arranged to form a sequence [93]. Individual birds may use =
times adding complexity to birds’ knowledge of their either strategy, or may combine the two strategies. When = &
population’s songs, even when the songs themselves did zebra finches are challenged to learn new material late in =
not become more complex. song development they first alter existing syllables to match  —
In this scenario, cultural transmission of syllables favours models’ phonology, and then attempt to adjust the order of s
the emergence of note type clusters. Increasing sophistication those syllables [94]. Crystallized canary songs consist of a 5S
of swamp sparrow perception, such as conformist biases, series of phrases, with each phrase made up ofa string ofiden-
would shape the cultural transmission of swamp sparrow tical syllables [95,96]. When young canaries were tutored with
song, resulting in a relatively small number of syllable types ‘glissando’ songs that consisted of a long series of otherwise
becoming very common [73], thereby favouring the establish- identical syllables that varied in frequency, forming a long,
ment of note type clusters. This conformist bias may be smooth transition from high to low, they initially copied
related to the fact that swamp sparrows recognize and respond these glissandos accurately [97]. However, as song learning
most strongly to more ‘typical’ versions of syllables—those that progressed, species-specific phrase structure and categories
are centrally located in the acoustic space occupied by a syllable emerged: the glissando string was broken up into phrases,
type [80]. In field playbacks, males respond more aggressively and each phrase became a short repeated string of one syllable
to typical syllables, and in the laboratory, females primed with drawn from the original continuum of notes. Over the course of
oestradiol give more copulation solicitation displays to typical song learning, these canaries first accurately copied an atypical
syllables. This finding has been connected to the developmen- song, and then altered it by reducing a continuous series of
tal stress hypothesis, the idea that receivers might assess note types to categories, and repeating each category of note
singers based on how well they were able to learn their songs to form species-typical phrases.
[81]. Interestingly, a theoretical model found that in order for As song learning studies illustrate, note and syllable cat-
learning accuracy to serve as a marker of developmental egories do not develop completely independently. A single
stress, both receivers and signallers need to categorize the utterance may be repeated, giving rise to a string of initially
songs that they hear early in life [82]. The process of categoriz- identical notes or syllables that differentiate to form a