mappings between specific rhythmic patterns and specific forms across other non-human primates (for a detailed
metric pulses, as evidenced by a recent study of musical description, see [41]). Based on available empirical evidence,
corpora [23]. Indeed, certain rhythmic figures are often we have proposed a concrete framework to organize the pro-
characteristic of specific genres (e.g. claves or time-line pat- gressively more complex forms of meter processing within
terns in music influenced by African tradition). Hence, four key levels. The simplest form of meter processing, here
recognizing these figures could serve as a reliable cue to par- identified as level 1, is already present in monkeys, while
ticular meters, along with numerous other cues such as more intricate forms of mapping between sensory inputs
particular timbres, harmonies, but also social contexts. and internal meter seem to be fully developed in humans,
The associative processes at level 4 are critical to enable supporting coordination in a flexible, culturally appropriate
enculturated individuals to share temporal reference in the way, even in response to weakly periodic stimuli. GAE pre-
form of metric pulses during musical coordination behaviours, dicts that these human abilities evolved through a gradient
despite little direct periodic cues in the sensory input, which is of functional and structural changes within the CTBG circuit
characteristic for numerous musical traditions [101]. In fact, and across all the audiomotor pathways (electronic supple-
these learned mappings might even allow the listener to go mentary material, figure S6). Future work needs to identify
‘against’ the direct cues in the input, for instance, in ska and the particular nature of these changes, and how they support
reggae (where a metric pulse is typically perceived in antiphase the levels of our proposed framework. This framework might
with prominent modulations in the musical stimulus). Based be also useful to organize previous evidence on inter-individ-
on the data from laboratory studies, such associative flexible ual and developmental differences in rhythmic musical
mappings may be learned through multimodal exposure to behaviours, and to integrate these findings with data from
musical auditory inputs accompanied by periodic vestibular comparative studies across species (cf. [173]).
stimulation resulting from active or passive movement Meter processing is a phenomenon that depends on a
[33,44,46]. Similarly, evidence from EEG frequency-tagging dynamic interaction between auditory and motor systems
suggests that learning to move along a rhythmic input in a in the brain [40,50]. In this regard, GAE suggests that the
way that emphasizes particular metric pulses leads to astonishing ability to perceive meter in humans is owing to
enhanced representation of those pulses in the EEG activity eli- their massive and dynamic flow of information between the