skewness ratio, ¢s, was much greater than 1, with Som = 1.4 importance of tail associations for community dynamics.
correspondingly much greater than Sing=0.2 (figure 5). So The influence of tail associations on the distribution of xo
although species relationships slightly reduce the variance can be as great or greater than the influence of species corre-
of Xtor, they also dramatically increase right skew of Xo lations with symmetric tail association. For Konza, ¢g,4 and
This, in turn, leads to an overall greater propensity for ¢s,cor Were Similar (figure 5), indicating that both tail associ-
explosions of x4. to high values, and a correspondingly ations and correlations were comparable in their effects on
accentuated probability that x,,, will exceed high disaster the skewness of X1¢ (recall that S.om= $s ta9s,corSind): For
thresholds. Crashes of x1. to low values are reduced by Hays, however, ¢s,cor was close to 1 and ¢5 tq differed substan-
species relationships. The variance ratio obscures the fact tially from 1 (figure 5), indicating that essentially all of the
that species relationships modify extreme behaviour of Xjot influence of species relationships on sk(x;..) was owing to
differently in the two tails of its distribution. Although the asymmetric tail associations between species. The influence
variance ratio suggests that species dynamics at Konza are of tail associations on the CV of x1o¢ was negligible, as indi-
compensatory, reducing community variability, in fact this cated previously, but that reflects the inability of the CV to
is true only for mitigating crashes of x, to low values; detect the impact of tail associations, rather than indicating
species relationships instead accentuate the tendency of Xtot that tail associations were unimportant.
to explode to high values. See the electronic supplementary Figure 6 makes more concrete some of the above con-

material, S7 for related results and discussion. clusions through comparison of x; time series in Hays and


1940 1950 1960 1970 1985 | 1995 | 2005 | 2015 2

year year 3

(b) (e) >