in the face with their voice. Simple sentences were created in question, therefore, is not whether universality exists, but =
English, and actors spoke these sentences using the affective rather, what form it takes—not something that can be deter- = 5!
prosody associated with different emotional faces. The judge- mined a priori. In order to detect whatever universals might = >
ment task was simple: subjects were presented two faces, exist in human communication systems, it is important that =
played a single vocal recording and then asked to indicate we use methodology that is suited to the task. Rg
which face the speaker was trying to imitate. Every vocal =
stimulus was produced while looking at a specific face, and x
one of these faces was always included as a choice in the judge- Infant-di d h s
ment task. No emotion terms were used in the task, but 5 . Infant-directe speec Ss
participants were introduced to the pictures with emotion Infant-directed (ID) speech is one of the earliest voice modu- =
labels. One of the two pictures constituted a correct answer, lation phenomena to be examined across languages and
since which face the speaker was trying to imitate was a cultures. Ferguson [63] described ID speech in six languages,
matter of fact. Using this method, subjects were able to identify including Arabic, Marathi, Comanche, Gilyak, American Eng-
the vocalizations produced for anger, sadness, happiness and lish and Spanish. Many common features were noted across
fear faces better than chance, and their errors patterned as these languages, as were language-specific features. In terms
expected given form-function relationships between different of strictly vocal (i.e. acoustic) features, this analysis was not
emotional categories [39]. Other vocal emotion studies using extensive, but Ferguson noted some phonological phenomena
similar paradigms incorporating an actual correct answer across most of the six languages, such as simplification of
have also demonstrated high cross-cultural consistencies in consonant clusters and various consonant replacements. Inter-
responses (e.g. [57-59)). estingly, he pointed out that there seemed to be differences

To be clear: these experiments, like most, were not theory- across cultures in attitudes about public displays of ‘babytalk’,
free. In the study of vocal emotion recognition in Shuar adults, which relates to the idea that pragmatic variations across
the stimuli were constructed using facial expression exemplars societies can drive differences in other dimensions. In a later
that were selected in order to test specific hypotheses about analysis, Ferguson [64] described ID modifications in ‘speech