Displays of vocal synchrony between human mates seem sounded relaxed, included many vocal changes, and they per-
to parallel patterns seen in avian mate choice [93], and non- ceived that the womans tone decreased in a playful way. By
vocal behavioural synchrony during human courtship [97]. contrast, stranger partner conversations entailed very little
Vocal matching in songbirds facilitates mate attraction [98]. rise or fall in tones, had longer pauses, and the woman often
Indeed, higher levels of synchronicity in the speech patterns sounded high-pitched and hurried. Romantic partners also
of close romantic partners were found compared to stranger showed greater turn-taking behaviours during their conversa-
dyads [94]. However, it is important to note that stranger tions and more sustained patterns of vocal synchrony than
dyads showed a steady increase in vocal convergence as found in conversations exchanged between strangers [94].
their conversation exchange progressed. In comparison, Because certain vocalizations and intonations are directly
close partner vocal cues (as indexed by mean f,) did not con- associated with emotional and physiological changes, speech
verge; rather they were continuously correlated throughout patterns in conversations of romantic couples may reflect co-
the conversation [99]. Even in same-sex pairings, both men regulation, which may contribute to vocal synchrony [99]. In
and women were able to learn to synchronize their temporal fact, spouses in chronically distressed marriages had synchro-
speech rate to their conversational partner with equal skill nized the pitch and energy of their voices at higher levels

[93]. Vocal synchrony may signal commonality, attentiveness when they held positive attitudes about their discussions as


opposed to negative attitudes [106]. These investigations changes are designed to feign lack of interest in highly desir-

further our understanding of what features that distinguish able partners who may be intrigued by potential mates who
the vocal modulations of couples conversing with one another appear uninterested. If so, then women who are very high in
can be discerned by listeners. mate value may be less likely to employ this tactic, as poten-
The acoustic features of a couple’s speech to each other tial mates will more often be comparatively lower in mate
predict—and may influence—relationship outcomes, as quality than they are. This raises the broader question of