showed that the degree to which the forms of the words writ- does not imply that the sound-symbolic correspondence
ten in non-Roman scripts were perceived to be rounder for and the orthographic shapes connected to those sounds are
bouba and spikier for kiki also did not alter the results. not deeply intertwined—in cultural evolution, as well as in
One qualification in interpreting our results is that most of perceptual processing. Indeed, congruent orthographic
our participants spoke a foreign language (with English being shapes for the sounds /i/ and /u/ in the Roman alphabet
the modal foreign language), and most participants knew a and other scripts could be rooted historically in something
language that used the Roman alphabet. Even those partici- like the sound symbolism of bouba-kiki, today feeding back
pants who did not report speaking a language that used into people’s behaviour in modern bouba-kiki experiments.
the Roman alphabet would probably have had some experi- As we have only tested two pseudowords rather than a
ence with this script given our use of an internet-based whole set of words systematically varying in their phonetic
survey, e.g. Chinese speakers use Roman letters (Pinyin) properties, we can only speculate about the sound-symbolic
when interacting with computers. From this perspective, root of the effect. As purely acoustic objects, we suggest
then, it is important to see our results alongside the fact that the continued presence of voicing in bouba may play an
that the bouba/kiki effect has also been found in congenitally important role, especially as voicing has been shown to
blind individuals [73], in at least some studies of pre-literate have drastic effects on the overall amplitude and spectral
children [51,77,79], as well as in some cultures that do not characteristics of spoken utterances [100]. Portions including
use written language [37]. Taken together, this evidence con- phonation have a lower average centre of gravity (a global
verges to indicate that bouba/kiki exists, to a substantial extent, measure of frequencies with high amplitude) compared to
independently of orthography, and thus, appears to be rooted portions without phonation. Thus, as shown in figure 2,

in crossmodal correspondence between the spoken words this means that bouba has an overall lower spectral energy


than kiki. Although acoustically, spectral energy is different
from fundamental frequency, people mentally associate