theories, a model based on the role of musicality in infant- synchronized behaviours, while pitch processing enables
parent communication has particular strengths, as it could parent-infant bonding and communication through the infer-
further explain the universal features of IDS and lullabies, ral of emotional states [174,175], laying the ground for the
as well as the musicality of babies, not dependent on pre- active communication of those states in any form of
vious experience ([83,84] see also [85]). protolanguage.

The most challenging issue for any model, however, is to In general, the evidence is consistent with a model for the
explain how human populations changed from a state where evolution of musicality based on its role in infant-parent
musicality, and its components, was non-existent or very communication. Communication between infants and
modest towards one where they become fully developed. parents is critical to survival: human children are born rela-
Here, we argue that selection on parent-infant communication tively underdeveloped, parental care is exceptionally long,
could have driven such change, because human infants are so and children require strong parental bonds to guarantee
vulnerable that even small improvements in communication care and avoid potentially fatal neglect. In fact, IDS is associ-
and bonding might make the difference between life and ated with oxytocin levels and other neuropeptides involved
death. Indeed, the same argument has been made by researchers in attachment mechanisms (e.g. [186-188]). Better parent—
in a different sensory modality: Wyatt [165] suggests that infant communication, and particularly mother—infant bond-
secretions from the areolar glands on the breast may be the ing, could facilitate social learning in infants, allowing them
best place to focus in the ongoing search fora human pheromone, to acquire the necessary skills to survive [189]. Moreover, a
because of its potentially critical importance in facilitating developmental tool is necessary for language to evolve, and
successful suckling when the infant is most vulnerable. parent-infant communication is crucial in this aspect (as

Relative pitch (RP)—an important component of pitch seen today in IDS, [190]).
processing and musicality [53]—is the ability to process If parent-infant communication promotes infant survival
pitches in relation to each other. Without this ability, individ- and development, then selection could have acted on individ-
uals with different voice registers would be incapable of ual variation in musicality to the benefit of those with better