because of its potentially critical importance in facilitating developmental tool is necessary for language to evolve, and
successful suckling when the infant is most vulnerable. parent-infant communication is crucial in this aspect (as

Relative pitch (RP)—an important component of pitch seen today in IDS, [190]).
processing and musicality [53]—is the ability to process If parent-infant communication promotes infant survival
pitches in relation to each other. Without this ability, individ- and development, then selection could have acted on individ-
uals with different voice registers would be incapable of ual variation in musicality to the benefit of those with better
recognizing (or imitating) a melody as such when sung by, ability. Moreover, because musicality seems to be at least par-
for example, children versus adult women or adult men, tially hereditary (see [67,135]), adults with a good level of
who tend to have different registers. RP tends to improve musicality could produce offspring better equipped to pro-
with practice [166,167] and may be better in people who cess this information and with the potential of being yet
speak tonal languages [168]. Across species, RP seems to be more successful parents, adding a new level to the selection
rare, but there is evidence of RP in songbirds like the black- pressure for musicality. In fact, there are primate precursors
capped chickadee, Poecile atricapillus [169] and European star- of guided vocal learning at least in marmoset monkeys
lings, Sturnus vulgaris [170], and mammals like ferrets, [191-193], providing grounds for selection to act upon.

Mustela putorius furo [171]. However, to our knowledge, Furthermore, this model could integrate the evidence in
there are no species that can match human RP abilities. Cru- support for a sexual selection hypothesis, including the

cially, evidence shows that human neonates are able to preference for composers of more complex music around


ovulation [131,132,134,153]. If musicality affects infant survi- infants is still biologically relevant today in IDS and lullabies,

val, then cues of musicality would likely become sexually as well as its power to promote group cohesion and social