are, however, also several languages that have the opposite have not been borne out consistently across studies and
pattern (questions = falling contour), such as reported for sev- across languages. Our meta-analysis showed that there is by
eral Bantu languages by Rialland [149]. Using a high rising now a sizeable portion of studies from a small but genealogi-
contour for statements is also widely attested in several varie- cally diverse sample of languages in which low pitch is
ties of English, sometimes discussed as ‘uptalk’ [3,152-154]. associated with a deferential form of polite speech. We have
However, the precise intonation contour for ‘uptalk’ may suggested that prosodic mitigation is a plausible explanation
differ from rising contours in questions [155]. This points to of this observation, especially given that this account is consist-
an issue of the frequency code proposal, which is that the ent with a number of other facts (e.g. other phonetic cues that
concept of a ‘rising contour’ (and conversely, that of a ‘falling suggest mitigated speech, reduction in gesture, reduced facial
contour’) is so broad that it subsumes a number of quite dis- expressivity). Moreover, we have suggested that some of the
tinct intonation contours. In a similar fashion, Ladd [151, interpretations of high pitch (such as animated speech and
p- 1382] discusses universals in intonation and criticizes the other intense emotions) are incompatible with particular
fact that accounts such as the frequency code are ‘effectively forms of politeness.
unfalsifiable’. How, for example, should question contours A guiding concept for our discussion was the idea of
that have sharp final rises followed by sharp falls be treated? ‘pluripotentiality’: any linguistic form can serve multiple
Does the sharp rise count as positive evidence for the fre- different functions depending on a large number of contex-
quency code even though it is immediately followed by a tual factors. This pluripotentiality was already implicitly
fall? It is furthermore worth noting that although the rising = referenced in Ohala’s proposal, but it is now backed up by
question/ falling = statement pattern has been observed in substantial empirical evidence. The pluripotentiality is appar-
individual studies of the intonational systems of specific ent when looking at the meaning of pitch across different
languages, there has been no work that actually provides a studies, or based on tasks which directly show that contextual
formal test for this idea with a large sample of languages con- manipulations influence the interpretation of sound symbolic
trolling for genealogical and areal dependencies, as is stimuli [139], or the politeness-related interpretation of pitch
standard in modern statistical typology [121,156]. [83]. The fact that pitch has multiple different interpretations
Even if, for the time being, we accept that rising question also means that we cannot easily ground proposed intonation