relationship with the interlocutor is crucial to politeness the way up to 500 Hz, which is why we chose this specific pitch
theory [54], and has been referred to in research on polite- range. We filtered out artefacts beyond the outer 0.02 quantiles.
ness by terms such as ‘discernment politeness’ [113] and Our primary dependent measure is a set of FO measure-
‘bivalent politeness’ [114]. In this paper, we refer to the ments that are based on the median of the entire set of
deferential and more formal speech addressed to a superior utterances spanning each response (results reported below
as ‘polite’, and the casual and more informal speech also hold for means and are even stronger in that case). Our
addressed to a friend as ‘non-polite’. These labels are used focus on average FO values (medians), rather than maximum
for convenience and should not be understood as interpret- FO or FO span, is motivated for several reasons: first, this is
ations of how these levels of speech may be understood in the primary measure discussed in other studies relating to
context: ‘non-polite’ speech may be perfectly appropriate the frequency code, such as studies of vocal masculinity (e.g.
for addressing a friend or status-equal peer, and using [12]). Second, the average FO is the primary measure that is con-
‘polite’ speech does not guarantee a polite interpretation. sistently discussed across all the studies that we perform a
In fact, it has been shown that politeness markers can some- meta-analysis of. Third, the average FO more directly corre-
times be used to achieve the opposite effect (e.g. [115). sponds to the idea of acoustically projected body size (which
Ultimately, politeness does not reside in a particular style should characterize pitch at a global level), in contrast with
of speech, but in how that style is used and interpreted in the maximum and minimum values. Similarly, pitch span,
context [55]. The labels ‘polite’ versus ‘non-polite’ are a con- although theoretically interesting, is not of primary concern
venient shorthand for expressing the relative difference that here as this measurement has been argued to correspond to a
matters to this task: speech oriented towards an older and different biological code, the effort code [23,96]. Obviously,
socially more distant status superior, as opposed to speech our analysis does, therefore, not account for the fact that
oriented towards a relatively younger and relatively more more specific aspects of the intonation contour may also
intimate status-equal. signal body size and/or politeness-related meanings, which
is the focus of other studies (e.g. [92,96]).

(b) Partici pa nts Given that participants were free to respond in any way they