which is definitely beyond the scope of the traditional con- pattern, are clearly belied by the high within-population
ception of race. Understanding ‘ancestry profile’ and ‘mixed variance component’ (see also [47]).

ancestry’ entails understanding the statistical methods used
in Pritchard et al. [39], Alexander et al. [41], Bryc et al. [44],
Lawson eft al. [45] and Mallick et al. [46]. The wide methodo-

logical gap between today’s ancestry analysis and traditional 4, Lewontin on heritabil ty

racial classification actually debunks the classical racial classi- As mentioned in the introduction, Lewontin [5] can be
fication system. That is to say, even if ancestry analysis and viewed as a general critique of the first assumption. This
the traditional racial classification were to give exactly the and later studies showed that for any single gene and its func-
same results, which of course they do not, the fact that they tions, the diversity pattern exhibited by the phenotypes, and
have totally different model assumptions and methodology their corresponding genotypes that are used to define race,
shows how problematic the traditional racial classification are far from universal. For most phenotypes paired with a
system is (see box 2). As pointed out by Feldman & Lewontin single gene, the within-group diversity will be much larger
[34, p. 99], ‘Lines of ancestry of an individual can provide than the among-group diversity rather than vice versa. (In
information on the likelihood that the person carries certain principle we should distinguish between genetic and pheno-
alleles. Lines of ancestry, rather than arbitrary racial cat- typic differentiation due to the existence of dominance.
egories, can provide much accurate, biologically interesting However, in the single gene case, the within-group genetic
and potentially medically useful information.’ phenotypic diversities should be similar when the among-

We conclude that Mitton and Edwards’ critique of group genetic diversity is very small.)

Lewontin [5] missed the point. The partial coincidence Lewontin’s analysis did not refer to phenotype-genotype