or when (b) the top 5% of variance-contributing polymorphisms in population A were ascertained. This measure has the same interpretation as Qy; it equals =

V/4QxFsr. (c) Partitioning of mean polygenic score differences between the ascertained and non-ascertained sets of polymorphisms. Ascertained polymorphisms R
are from the top 5% of variance-contributing sites in population A. Points represent results for a single simulation. Ellipses denote the 95% confidence interval. The S
dashed grey line is the line of exactly opposing effects. 3
S
approximately the case for a Gaussian mutation effect size in the face of genetic drift and mutation, such that the differ- Ex
distribution but not for the heavy-tail effect size distribution ence in mean phenotypes among populations with the same >
that we simulate (figure 3c). These differences arise from optimum should be minor relative to neutral expectations
differences in the strength of selection on and variance (even accounting for the lower genetic variance within popu-
contributed by ancestrally shared polymorphisms; see elec- lations under stabilizing selection; figure 4a). This reduction
tronic supplementary material, ยง1.2 for details. We present in the divergence of the mean phenotype between popu-
results under GxE, pleiotropy, and directional selection in lations reflects the fact that if trait-increasing alleles
electronic supplementary material, ยง1.3. accidentally drift up in frequency, thus pushing the popu-

lation mean away from its selective optimum, trait-
decreasing alleles are subject to directional selection in their
4. Difference in polygenic means among favour (and vice versa), ; ;
; To explore population differences in mean polygenic
populations scores, we can use the polygenic score equivalent of Qsr/
2Fsy [100,101], where Qcoy measures the proportion of total
variance in additive genetic values attributable to among-
population differences. Under neutrality, for strictly additive
traits we expect Qs; to equal 2Fsy estimated from neutral
polymorphisms [14,15], and their ratio should be 7-distribu-