whole-genome datasets has allowed researchers to address are not being realized across many endangered taxa. Tigers
questions of inbreeding and selection. For example, Liu have been at the forefront of conservation efforts since the
et al. [39] identified signatures of selection among tiger sub- 1970s when population genetics was just starting out as an
species and revealed regions potentially under selection empirical field [90]. We have seen genetic research on tigers
that may be responsible for smaller body size and darker develop as it became possible to apply these methods and
coat colour in the Sumatran subspecies. Armstrong et al. approaches to address questions in wild mammal species.
[36] identified signatures of selection (potentially for cold While it has been possible to develop genomic-scale resources
adaptation) in Amur tigers. In the context of Indian tigers, for this species, numerous, less charismatic species that are
there are populations that live in unique environments and not under the conservation spotlight do not get the same
are potentially under local selection. Tigers in the Sundarbans attention or funding [91]. While the use of flagship species
of the mangrove forests, for example, live in ecologically is in many ways beneficial to conservation, studies on the
unique habitats thought to affect their diet and also have dis- diversity of fauna within these ecosystems are required to
tinctive morphological characteristics [81]. In fact, Singh et al. understand the threats to different species and to monitor
[82] suggest these tigers should be an independent manage- the effectiveness of any conservation measures that are put
ment unit. Our analyses (figure 2b,c) on whole genomes in place. Therefore, the use of the approaches for non-inva-
and 81 SNPs suggest that tigers here are genetically distinct. sive sampling and reduced yet informative marker sets will
Additional analyses to investigate signatures of selection on likely be of huge importance in effective conservation and
candidate genes (those involved in salt metabolism, since management of biodiversity globally. Independent, repeated
the water here is brackish) or sliding window approaches assessments of population structure within tigers are helping
that investigate selection will help better understand whether to build a cohesive picture of tiger population genetics that is
these tigers are indeed locally adapted and should be moving our understanding of this species forward. As with

managed as a separate population. all scientific endeavour, repeated analyses will convince us

