differences in traits for environmental and/or social reasons, a GWAS will be able to use the alleles that differ in frequency
between the populations to predict differences in traits, despite those alleles having no true causal influence on the trait in
question. In general, stratification of this sort will generate biases, and PRS, which relax the statistical requirements for using
associations, are particularly sensitive to this kind of error.

For (v), recall that GWAS do not identify actual genes, but rather markers which are presumed to be associated with some
(number of) gene(s). If, in one population, variation in a marker tends to be correlated with that of a particular gene (i.e. the
marker and gene are in LD), but in another population LD is lower, a PRS developed using the first population will not be as
predictive in the second.

Point (vi) simply notes the possibility of random errors; while this concern is considerable in GWAS, it is generally thought that
markers found to be associated at the standard, very strong, statistical significance levels are unlikely to be spurious. The same
cannot be said of the weaker associations used in PRS, many of which are in fact likely to be mis-estimated or entirely spurious.

Note that more than one of these problems may occur in any particular GWAS and that these different issues can interact
in potentially complex ways.

More recently, Mathieson [66] has suggested that the ‘omnigenic model’ (in which many loci contribute indirectly to
variation in many traits) can explain the failure of polygenic scores developed in one population to be predictive in
others; he argues further that since PRS likely rely so heavily on loci with only indirect relationships to the trait in question,
we should not expect them to be ‘robust clinical targets’. The mechanisms by which predictive power is lost in the omnigenic
model are broadly similar to (i), (ii), (iii) and (v) described here.

incident (in the case of PRS, genetic or innate) susceptibilities, 7. Conclusion
suggesting that the uptake of an earlier colonoscopy (or similar