different aspects of the social environment are themselves dis- [12,13,32,100], and see also table 1 in [11]. Psychosocial stress
tinct. Our results are consistent with observations that the may therefore be the common explanatory factor underlying
fertility and survival consequences of male rank, female rank conserved signatures of social adversity, when they are
and female social bond strength also differ in this population observed. By contrast, high rank in baboon males imposes
[29,44,51,76-79]. These results thus call the hypothesis of a energetic stress due to competition with other males and the
strongly conserved signature of social disadvantage (largely demands of mate-guarding [29,101], although males may
based on results on social isolation and socio-economic status experience forms of psychosocial stress as well. And while
in humans) into question [67]. Tests for such a signature have the stability of social hierarchies and experimental work in cap-
particularly emphasized social disadvantage-linked increases tive primates suggests that rank precedes the gene expression
in the expression of inflammation and interferon signalling- patterns we observe in females, males that achieve high rank
related genes. This prediction is supported for low rank in may already be physiologically distinct [15].
females but not for low social bond strength. Furthermore, it This explanation does not, however, account for why social
is directionally reversed in male baboons, despite the fact bond strength does not follow the same pattern as female dom-
that low-ranking baboons of both sexes are harassed more inance rank. Weak social bond strength in Amboseli baboon
often and lose competitive encounters more frequently than females is also correlated with elevated glucocorticoid levels,
high-ranking animals. but this effect is modest in comparison to other predictors
Consequently, only female social status-related differences (e.g. early life adversity [102]). If glucocorticoids are a major
in gene expression recapitulate the pattern reported in studies determinant of social environment-associated variation in
of socio-economic status, loneliness and social integration immune pathway gene expression, these observations may
in humans and experimental studies of dominance rank in account for why (unlike rank) we did not observe a strong sig-
captive female rhesus macaques [58,90,92,94-98]. Our results nature of social bond strength in immune genes at baseline.
suggest that low social status in female baboons may therefore Instead, social bond strength is most consistently linked to oxi-
be a better model for social disadvantage in humans than dative phosphorylation and MYC signalling (a key regulator of
low social status in male baboons—perhaps because social cell growth, metabolism and apoptosis). Intriguingly, MYC
status in male baboons is driven almost entirely by fighting activity has also been implicated in social regulation of brain