expand methods for detecting social mobility to account for uncertainties in rank orders. Otherwise, measurement error can
lead to the overestimation of social mobility and lead the noise of spurious social mobility to swamp the signal of true social
mobility. This is particularly challenging because it is difficult to distinguish measurement uncertainty in rank order—arising
from sampling bias, observer error and missing data—from biological uncertainty in rank relationships among individuals
[57]. In fact, because active intragenerational mobility by definition involves changing dominance relationships, biological
uncertainty in rank orders is expected to increase during periods of active mobility. Therefore, a crucial step is to develop
methods for measuring and interpreting uncertainty in estimates of social mobility. The Glicko-rating, randomized Elo-
rating and percolation and conductance (PERC) methods incorporate approaches for quantifying uncertainty around inferred
dominance ranks or scores [45,49,58], but no study has yet used these uncertainty estimates when inferring hierarchy
dynamics.

when instead they will eventually enjoy dominant status, and more tolerant of despotism by dominants [64]. Subordinate
in fact all individuals may experience relatively equal lifetime individuals with similar rank may vary in status-seeking
fitness. The dynamics of rank across development (e.g. being behaviours (e.g. information collecting, prospecting, challen-
raised by humans is associated with reduced dominance in ging dominants) that later influence their trajectory in social
juvenile greylag geese (Anser anser) [68]) and life-history status [35,70-72]. In summary, to truly understand the influ-
stages (e.g. dispersal in spotted hyenas [69]) add further ence of rank on fitness and the evolution of status-seeking
complexity to the ways that dynamic rank links to fitness. behaviour, it is necessary to examine dominance trajectories
Critically, in addition to modulating short-term associ- over individuals’ lifetime to understand how fitness out-
ations between rank and fitness, dominance trajectories can comes vary as a function of rank and mobility over the life
reflect selection on status-seeking behaviour or influence the course. Here, theoretical models of optimal strategies under
stability of social systems. For instance, some have suggested different dominance trajectory regimes [64] and long-term
that an on-average tendency to improve in social status over individual-based studies will be particularly valuable.
the life course is critical for maintaining persistent groups This life-course approach of dominance trajectories also
[41]. Theoretical work suggests that if subordinates can opens an opportunity to take a life-history view of status-