the propensity for ARG transfer, Wang et al. [17] studied the resident genes
distribution of ARGs across plasmids and chromosomes in MGEs have an intrinsic cost. Under some circumstances, these
three groups of Enterobacteriaceae: Escherichia, Klebsiella and costs can be outweighed by the benefits of carrying the
Salmonella. Certain types of resistance gene were more likely element, for example, when plasmids harbour accessory
to be transmitted by plasmids than others. In particular, genes that are under positive selection [24]. But in most cases,
genes that caused antibiotic inactivation, or replacement or such cargo remains beneficial if it happens to recombine onto
protection of the antibiotic’s target, tended to be more the chromosome, leaving a redundant and burdensome MGE
common on plasmids than chromosomes, while resistance [25]. Understanding the source of MGE fitness costs is a
genes associated with efflux pumps tended to be more often major theme in current research. It has long been supposed
chromosomally encoded. These patterns reflect broader that the metabolic costs associated with plasmid gene
trends in the susceptibility of genes to undergo HGT, with expression, and in particular, translation, make the principal
transfer of genes encoding proteins with multiple interaction contribution to observed plasmid fitness costs, because of the
partners (such as efflux pumps) proving less successfully trans- bioenergetic costs of amino acid biosynthesis and the fact
mitted than genes with fewer interactions (such as antibiotic that proteins tend to be more abundant than their correspond-
inactivation) [18,19]. The recent global spread of ARGs is per- ing DNA and transcripts [26]. Rodriguez-Beltran and
haps a case study, representative of broader patterns of a colleagues [27] addressed the role of translation directly, by
general, ubiquitous, ancient process of MGE-mediated gene examining how plasmid fitness costs are affected in cells with
exchange. translation defects. If translation were the dominant reason
While MGEs can spread useful genes, viewing the crucial for plasmid costs, then cells with either reduced ribosome
benefits provided to microbial hosts from the perspective of elongation rates or fewer ribosomes should suffer exacerbated
the MGE itself reveals details and discrepancies that are fun- fitness costs when they are inhabited by a plasmid. But this was
damental to understanding how MGEs cause microbes to not the case, and in fact, impeding translation appeared in
adapt. The nitrogen-fixing symbiosis genes of Rhizobia pro- some cases to reduce plasmid costs. These results suggest that
vide an instructive example. In their review on the subject, generic mechanisms are less important for plasmid fitness
Wardell et al. [20] explain that the complex, multi-component costs than expected, and indicate instead that specific gene con-