by low copy-number (approx. less than 5) plasmids (such as bigger plasmids more likely to carry multiple replication mod-
large plasmids tend to be [62]) out of necessity because the ules (electronic supplementary material, figure $4). Horizontal
risks of loss by segregation are untenable [63]. However, transmission can also be enhanced by plasmid-encoded pili
such systems are imperfect, and if plasmid-free cells do not and fimbriae that promote biofilm formation and cell-cell
suffer the burdens of carriage, the plasmid can be driven out adhesion [83,84]. However, though larger plasmids are more
of the population by purifying selection. Therefore, larger likely to be conjugative (electronic supplementary material,
plasmids tend to also carry toxin-antitoxin (TA) systems figure S3), some megaplasmids appear to lack conjugative
which ensure that plasmid-free cells do not succeed [64]. machinery altogether, and either depend on the conjugative
These linked genes, encoding a long-lived toxin and a short- machinery of other plasmids to transmit (i.e. they are mobiliz-
lived antitoxin, result in an (often lethal) fitness cost if the anti- able) or are apparently not mobile at all [85]. Annotation
toxin gene is lost [65], and are often found to be necessary for algorithms that use the well-described conjugative machineries
megaplasmid stability, as was seen for pTTS12 (583 kb) and of Enterobacteriaceae as templates may underperform when
pAtC58 (542 kb) [66,67]. In fact, evolution experiments select- detecting transfer genes in non-conventional organisms [86],
ing for increased stability of a 43 kb IncP-1beta plasmid found and the thick seam of uncharacterized megaplasmid genes
this plasmid reproducibly acquired a TA system from the may yet show new mechanisms for horizontal transmission.
chromosome, enhancing its persistence and increasing its Alternatively, non-mobilizable megaplasmids may be en route
size [68,69]. Some plasmids encode many different TA sys- to becoming chromids, as discussed below.
tems, with as many as seven detected on the 103 kb Plasmids occupy a world inhabited by other plasmids.
Synechocystis plasmid pSYSA [70]. TA systems are themselves Interacting mobile genetic elements can exploit one another's
relatively small, meaning that the genes themselves can make transmission machineries, compete for cellular resources, and
only a negligible contribution to plasmid size, but several TA directly exclude one another (for example, plasmids of the
systems distributed across a plasmid can stabilize larger same incompatibility group) [87,88]. Co-infection of a prokar-
regions that would otherwise be prone to deletion [71,72]. yote with multiple different plasmids is common [89], and
Horizontal transmission of plasmids is thought to occur mechanisms have evolved to promote one plasmid over
mainly by conjugation [73,74]; this is particularly the case for another. Some plasmids pack a punch by carrying their