tively lower proportion of the woody taxa are associated This indicates that, owing to the diverse evolutionary pro-
with montane forests associations than was found in the pre- cesses involved, all the behavioural and physical traits that
ceding period (lower Podocarpus and increased Alchornea, define us today did not appear as a package, and therefore
Spirostachys africana and Myrsine africana) [80]. This evidence were did not appear at the same time or place [4,17]. Further-
suggests that the vegetative resources within this landscape more, although the early H. sapiens fossils found to date are
were both diverse and dynamic through this period. typically associated with open ecosystems (table 2), given
the diverse and dynamic nature of vegetation across Africa
(ii) Hominin evolution and cultural development (figure 1c), it seems likely that early populations experienced,
Around 300 ka, the first physical and behavioural manifes- and exploited, a range of different environments. This is
tations of H. sapiens begin to appear (figure 1d). There is perhaps reflected in the technological shift (shaping to core
some debate over which traits should, and should not, be flaking), and the increasing diversity of tools, that emerges
used to ‘diagnose’ very early H. sapiens fossils, an issue with the MSA during this period as H. sapiens equipped
exacerbated by the fact that there is no agreement on what themselves to deal with a range of environmental challenges.
early members of the H. sapiens clade should look like. From the Last Interglacial (ca 125 ka) onwards, the MSA
Extant H. sapiens share species specific traits, such as cranial (figure 1d) based material culture record evidences new

globularity, a small face retracted under the frontal bone, a features, including the regional diversification of technology,


the likely use of ornamental pigments, the collection and
intentional perforation of shells (interpreted as for personal
ornamentation), and the use of diverse bone tools (e.g.
[4,118]). These manifestations of a seemingly more complex
material culture are also pan-African, and do not seem to
emerge from one region and spread. Various studies have