their ancestors acquired from farmers. Importantly, these gar- [98]. Choosing to remain close to market towns has also
dens require little direct input. As gardens mature, they are been linked to decreases in traditional plant knowledge and
more often used as ‘storehouses’, with crops left to grow preferences for traditional medicine [99], increases in wealth
and reproduce on their own [91], a practice continuous inequalities and a greater future-oriented time preference
with the process of encouraging wild Dioscorea yams to [100]. Still, while schooling may limit BaYaka mobility as it
grow by clearing spaces in the forest [62,67]. The BaYaka relates to forest activities, it may also place BaYaka in contact
family who planted the aforementioned forest garden did with new ideas and people [101]. Roads may increase BaYaka
so with the specific intent of gaining independence from mobility, especially as it relates to labour opportunities.
their farmer neighbours. Having this forest garden allows BaYaka in market towns continue to participate in the econ-
them to spend months away from the village while still omy of forest spirits, with some reportedly investing up to
maintaining access to cultigens. four months’ worth of wages into new dances [96]. These

Mobility is especially pronounced in adolescence and findings hint at the fact that while patterns may change,
young adulthood, when finding a spouse from outside the mobility will likely continue to be foundational to BaYaka
local community is a priority [26]. The locations marked on identity and cultural practices.

figure 1 indicate the reported birth locations of the parents
of 124 people living in one village (green dots) along the

Motaba (data collected in 2018). The largest distance between (b) Subsistence flexibility ina heterogenous ecosystem
where a parent was born and their adult child now lives is There is considerable ecological variability along the Motaba
82.4 km. As residence is multilocal [70,92], inter-community river. Some villages are situated in Congolian Lowland For-
marriages give individuals and their families opportunities ests where streams do not typically go dry. Others are
to build relational wealth. Indeed, traits that promote build- situated in a Western Congolian Swamp Forest ecoregion.
ing the relational wealth of the community (e.g. sharing, These villages are located at higher elevation, have drier