some of the animals identified, in particular horses and came- The dating of these sites allowed us to establish the chrono- Ro}
lids, are not Ice Age paintings, but are post-Columbian (after logical framework for the rock art of La Lindosa, with dates z
AD 1492), and that the giant sloth that we have identified rep- ranging from the late Pleistocene approximately 12.6 ka to S
resents a capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris). the European arrival approximately 1478-1642 AD [9]. The “S
In this paper, we address these criticisms, expand on the lithic technology of the earliest archaeological strata consists = =
description of the megafauna from Morcote-Rios et al. [9], of an expedient unifacial technology mainly composed of S
and argue that there are sound grounds to consider these paint- small (smaller than 7cm long) used and retouched flakes — ¢
ings as Ice Age megafauna. Our reasoning is based on: (i) the made on local chert and quartz. Faunal and plant remains
presence of a combination of salient physical features that are point to a generalized economy exploiting both aquatic and
unique to the megafauna species being examined, (ii) the tem- terrestrial environments, dominated by fishes, small mam-
poral overlap of humans and the megafauna species identified mals and reptiles, as well as a diversity of palms and tree
at La Lindosa based on the dates of human occupation of this fruits [9]. During our recent survey of the region, we also dis-
region, (iii) the fact that the majority of the megafauna species covered a whole new section of the western area of La = =
being considered existed in northwest South America, as estab- Lindosa with five new panels along approximately 1km of — 5!
lished by palaeontological and archaeological records, and (iv) rock walls oriented northwest-southeast, facing southwest ==
the presence of ochre pigment fragments in the lower levels of and standing approximately 370-470 m above sea level. =
our excavations at La Lindosa dating to 12.6 ka (calibrated g
years before the present using IntCal20 [21]). The paper 2
begins with an introduction to the archaeology and rock art 3. The La Lindosa rock ar S
of the wider region. This is followed bya description of the The La Lindosa rocky outcrop contains thousands of paint- s
La Lindosa rock art and the potential Ice Age animal depictions . : . sae Ss
ings which, along with the ones reported for Chiribiquete ©

that resemble a giant sloth, a gomphothere, a camelid, horses
and three-toe ungulates with trunks. This is accompanied by