the beginning of agriculture. This implies that significant carbon and oxygen stable isotope analyses of mammalian = &
breaks between different ecosystems may have been major fossil tooth enamel further demonstrates that early humans =
boundaries in the past to populations either adapted to likely occupied the site during marine isotope stage 4 (MIS4; = &
mixed resources or specific habitats. ca 74-60 ka) dominated by a closed-canopy forest very similar iat
to those present in the region today, although the fossilorangu- =
tans appear to have occupied a slightly different niche in the
. op rainforest than their modern counterparts. S
3. Southeast Asian and pacific forests Similarly, McAdams ef al. [69] undertake geoarchaeological g
Since no continuous tropical forest belt exists between the analysis of two archaeological cave sites in Vietnam. By MIS 3, ~
African and southern and eastern Asian forests (figure 1), it is clear that our species had dispersed throughout much of
moving into other parts of the tropics must have involved Southeast Asia, including the diverse forest systems of
repeated adaptation to varied tropical forest ecosystems. In upland Vietnam. Here, wetter, sheltered conditions resulted
fact, human groups expanding beyond Africa would have in forest refugia that were attractive to early human popu-
encountered significantly drier landscapes that spread into lations, with the collection of diverse resources, such as land
the Thar Desert of India before re-entering tropical zones snails, providing resilience subsistence strategies. Nevertheless,
again [59-61]. Once encountered, the Asian tropical forests the middens which record such evidence, and the caves in
presented a completely different set of floral and faunal which they are formed, are subject to a series of unique diage-
characteristics compared to those in Africa. In contrast with netic and site formation processes that need to be better
Africa, Asian tropical forest extent was probably greater understood to understand the nature and tempo of human
throughout the prevailing glacial conditions of the Pleisto- adaptations and settlement patterns. McAdams and colleagues
cene, as low sea levels greatly increased land area and show how thin-section micromorphology is providing more
connectivity in Sundaland and Sahul, while the generally refined insights into depositional and post-depositional sites
maritime climate maintained high rainfall [62]. Moving into across tropical zones, providing a basis for wider analysis of
the tropical forests of Wallacea and the Pacific, humans our species’ interaction with tropical forests around the world.
would also have to contend with unique insular tropical Finally, moving out into the Pacific realm, Roberts et al. [63]