
evaluation (see data inputs in the electronic supplementary
material, table S5). None of the calculations returned

(ii) Solution uranium-series analyses of dental tissues a finite age result. Under normal circumstances, this would
Solution US analyses of the bulk powdered dental tissues indicate that all dental tissues have experienced uranium
returned apparent age estimates ranging from ca 37 to 58 ka leaching. However, given the significant uncertainty around
(electronic supplementary material, table S3). No significant the dose rate evaluation, such an interpretation is treated
detrital thorium contamination was observed in the samples, with caution. We cannot exclude that the true external beta
resulting in very limited corrections of the apparent ages (less and gamma dose rate values are much lower than those cal-
than 3 ka). Because all samples return finite US estimates culated from the sediment sample, and the presence of the
there was no immediate evidence of uranium leaching. cave walls within a short distance of the sample could signifi-
Moreover, the fact that the dated specimens generally have cantly lower the dose rate (e.g. [20]). Consequently, combined

very low uranium concentrations (less than 0.5 ppm), US/ESR dating of this tooth does not provide any conclusive


chronological result and cannot be used to demonstrate of 0.4%0, 1.9%0 and 0.5%o for orangutans, rhinos and pigs,

uranium leaching. Evidence indicates that the apparent US respectively (difference in mean sinkhole versus mean main
age estimates can be considered reliable age constraints, chamber for pigs); and 1.3%o, 0.9%o0 and mean 1.2%o for
with dental tissues suggesting a minimum age of 50-55 ka 5'°O. The mean 5'°C for the Lida Ajer fossils is -28.5%o,
for SUM18-29. well within values considered typical of closed-canopy rain-
Two sediment samples were more closely associated forests (figure 3a), with the highest 5'°C value (from a pig)
with tooth SUM18-33,. Sample SUM18-13 was taken in situ still within the range of C3-dominated ecosystems.