ensemble (in one-third of fish) that codes for a prediction
error: a discrepancy between the predicted visual sensations Generative models can expand by duplicating simple
of backward movement of the landscape during swimming predictive motifs, to form a larger repertoire of species-
and the actual visual input. Interestingly, the fish with the specific behaviours, such as approach, avoidance, the control
latter ensemble were more effective in avoidance behaviour. of the vibrissae [34] and visually guided grasping. The oper-
These fish may solve the task using a generative model ana- ator (I+ I) in figure 4 illustrates a generative model in which
logous to the allostat of figure 3c. The putative allostat could the same predictive motifs are duplicated and specialized, to
continuously generate motion predictions and prediction form a ‘behaviour-based’ architecture composed of multiple,
errors, and cancel the prediction errors by triggering appro- parallel sensorimotor loops. Here, duplication means that the
priate (swimming or stopping) anticipatory responses rather overall generative model comprises multiple smaller genera-
than (only) using autonomic reflexes. A crucial obser- tive models (one for each ethologically valid behaviour)
vation—to assess that behaviour was actually guided by that operate in parallel and use the same error correction
prediction error minimization—was the fact that during con- scheme. Instead, specialization means that the smaller genera-
trol (open-loop virtual reality) trials in which swimming did tive models use different internal variables and are sensitive
not produce the predicted (backward movement) percep- to different kinds of behaviour-related affordances and
tions, the fish kept beating their tails—plausibly, because sensory information (e.g. space reachable with the arms for
the prediction errors never disappeared. grasping or more distal space for locomotion).
This example suggests that simple regulatory circuits, Duplication may have been realized over evolution via
such as escape circuits of the zebrafish, which are often con- the differentiation and parcellation of sensorimotor circuits
sidered quintessential examples of stimulus-response, could that progressively acquire different (behaviour-specific) func-
be supported—and improved—by error correction mechan- tional roles. For example, a single circuit for visually guided
isms [30]. The zebrafish telencephalon may generate various behaviour can be differentiated into two circuits, each special-
predictions (e.g. about expected backward movement of ized for a different kind of visually guided behaviour, such as
landscape) and use the corresponding prediction errors to escape versus foraging (see [35] for a detailed discussion of
guide active avoidance behaviour. The ‘allostat’ architecture the differentiation between a retino-tectal circuit for spatial