ity and thermal plasticity indirectly supports the role of higher resistance to thermal extremes, this trade-off is likely
divergent local adaptation in contributing to large range to be an important limiting factor affecting species
size. Mid-elevation species occurred where temporal thermal distribution.
variability during the growing season was consistently high, The extent to which aspects of the physical environment
though species growing under such conditions were associ- or traits differ between related species can provide infor-
ated with lower thermal plasticity. The question remains mation about how labile their evolution is. While range size
why some species are more likely to occupy larger ranges and spatial thermal variability did not reveal evidence for
presumably owing to more divergent adaptation, and why phylogenetic conservatisms, median elevation of species
mid-elevation species seem to do better in this regard in occurrence and temporal thermal variability revealed a mod-
our study system. erate phylogenetic effect (table 2). Furthermore, trait

plasticity was generally weakly constrained by shared history
(electronic supplementary material, S4). In fact, phylogenetic

(c) Constraints and evolutionary conservatism signal for plasticity expressed by the ten ecophysiological
Based on classical assumptions and recent evidence, general- traits measured in the three pairs of environments was
ist species (with a wider niche breadth) are expected to rarely significant, and for none of the traits was it supported
exhibit larger plastic responses (e.g. [77,78]). By contrast, by all three indices. Studies addressing phylogenetic signals
our analysis suggested that phenotypic plasticity was not for plasticity are scarce. In a recent study on amphibians,

associated with performance breadth across thermal Relyea et al. [85] explored phylogenetic conservatism in


plasticity in life-history traits and found only few traits (17%
of 30) with such a signature. Strong phylogenetic signals were