ution and local fixation of underdominant mutations. This has A key simplifying assumption in our model is that we 3
led to a series of influential theoretical papers investigating the model the colonization of new demes as discrete founder ]
role of metapopulation dynamics on the establishment of events occurring every T generations (e.g. [14,20]). When
underdominant mutations, such as chromosomal inversions the deme currently at the expansion front reaches carrying =
[11,12]. There is, however, another important and common capacity, a propagule of size F is placed into the next empty S
demographic scenario that may strongly facilitate the estab- deme dt) +1. The population then grows exponentially for
lishment of clines in allele frequency of underdominant T generations until the new deme’s carrying capacity is
mutations across space: spatial range expansion. reached. The time T corresponds to the inverse of the expan-

Species range expansions are known to create a phenom- sion speed and depends on the size of the propagule and the
enon of allele surfing, allowing for the accumulation of fixed growth rate of the population at the expansion front. The size
genetic diversity at range edges [13,14]. This process can of the propagule is determined by the dispersal rate m of indi-
impact selected and neutral variants, and has been studied viduals such that F = K m/2. The factor 1/2 is due to the fact
extensively, particularly in regards to expansion load and that individuals migrate to each of the two neighbouring
deleterious variants [15-21]. Another scenario less investi- demes with the same probability. During the growth phase,
gated, however, is the dynamics of underdominant alleles migration is ignored. Assuming exponential growth at rate
which confer heterozygote disadvantage. During a range p=log(R), where R is the geometric growth rate, this yields
expansion, strong drift at the expansion front can allow T =log(2/m)/p [14]. This model is a good approximation to
underdominant mutations to cross the threshold below range expansions with continuous gene flow when growth
which they would otherwise be selected against in their rates are larger than migration rates [14]. We also consider
heterozygous state. A cline in allele frequencies for underdo- the case where p is so large that a deme grows to carrying
minant mutations may readily establish across the landscape. capacity within a single generation T=1, independently of
In spatially extended populations with limited gene flow, the number of founders F.

underdominant mutations can form stable clines [22], and