the DIYABC analyses). The extensive introduced range of isms. For example, genetic homogeneity has been identified
M. squamiger was highly homogeneous, both in terms of popu- within the introduced range of the invasive lionfish (Pterois
lation structure and genomic diversity patterns. Global volitans) with the conclusion that gene flow can quickly erode
genomic homogeneity within the introduced range could be previous signals of genetic divergence [13].

the result of the introduction of genotypes from a single- While we found evidence of population structure between
source population from the native range [78] or high levels of introduced populations of M. squamiger and the native range
population connectivity within the introduced range due to outside Melbourne, we could not discount the possibility of
intense anthropogenic transport [79] promoting stepping- introduced alleles re-entering the native range. This is suggested
stone dispersal. By contrast, we found evidence of population by the discord between the clustering and the DIYABC-RF ana-
structure within the introduced range of C. robusta. Population lyses, with the former indicating that Melbourne was the sole
structure within introduced ranges has been found in other source. Further evidence for Melbourne being the source of all
ascidians [80], and can be attributed to multiple independent the introduced populations came from the fact that the lowest
introduction events [62]. The observed population structure number of private alleles across all native sites were found in
in C. robusta was present at differing spatial scales. For example, Melbourne. We know from historical data that Melbourne and
geographically distant regions such as Europe and western Bunbury opened as ports from the 1850s onwards [83,84], and
South Africa were genomically homogeneous, supporting pre- just over a century later M. squamiger individuals were found
vious results found by Zhan et al. [79]. Historical records of in California [85] and the Mediterranean Sea [39]. This was
C. robusta identify the ascidian as being present along the wes- reinforced by our shipping history data, which showed that
tern coast of South Africa since the 1950s [81]. Whether the Australia only started increasing its shipping activity from the
observed similarity in genomic makeup between these two 1850s, and indeed only became a significant global contributor
regions is a result of ongoing anthropogenic transport, or the after the 1900s. This further indicates that over the twentieth
result of high N, supressing the effects of genetic drift, remains century, M. squamiger colonized distant regions around the
unknown, though we recovered a drop in Hg in western South globe, demonstrating how rapidly anthropogenic transport
Africa sites compared to those found in eastern South Africa can facilitate the establishment and spread of NIS.