margins, as suggested in salmon [54]. Biotic interactions prob- collect and phenotype in large numbers. Understandably
ably present strongly multidimensional adaptive challenges to few studies have taken such a heroic research direction
invading populations, particularly when acting in concert [36,63]. However, they provide some examples where rapid
with abiotic changes [55]. Such combinations of biotic and abio- evolution (and range expansion) at margins reduces standing
tic interactions may create hard evolutionary limits, that arrest variation in ecologically relevant traits, which may poten-
the spread of invasions for long periods, until they are over- tially compromise future adaptive shifts (e.g. [64,65]). It is
come through novel (potentially very rare) mutations [56], or usually unclear whether a reduction of genetic variation
by hybridization with resident species, or polyploidy (see associated with rapid evolutionary responses represents a
below). They may also be overcome if novel environmental con- new hard evolutionary limit at the new ecological margin,
ditions remove hard limits, such as in purple loosestrife or just a delay before standing variation is replenished (i.e.
(Lythrum salicaria), where the fitness consequences of a core recreating a soft limit). In the absence of genetic data on
trade-off between flowering time and reproductive output is specific traits, transplant experiments beyond ecological mar-
altered in the invasive range of this species [57]. The fact that gins can test whether conditions are suitable beyond them

invasive organisms are often somewhat pre-adapted to their [66], by indirectly testing whether lack of genetic variation


limits range expansion. However, if extreme events determine of climate conditions in early spring, making periodic range

species’ distributions, resulting in long lag times before even contractions and subsequent expansions likely. This means
local extinctions occur, experimental tests using transplants that switching to monophagy (although apparently favoured
need to be conducted over many generations [67]. by selection during increasingly common warm years) may

In addition, trade-offs between traits are hard to assess, become an unreliable strategy in the more unpredictable
and it is even harder to work out whether these represent environments of the future, decreasing or fragmenting the