put in proper perspective given an individual’s prior experi- shown), as was also seen in females [34], incubation with
ence and help it stand out to select the right behavioural the CB1 receptor antagonist AM4113 did not prevent
response. Importantly though, while this may be a common TGOT-induced potentiation in cohabitated male voles
purpose of oxytocin action, we suggest that the neural mech- (figure 3c, two-way ANOVA, time p<0.0001, treatment
anisms through which the filtering occurs influence the p = 0.32, interaction p = 0.99), in contrast to what we observed
nature of the information that gets transmitted versus attenu- in cohabitated females (figure 3d, two-way ANOVA, time
ated at synapses. While decreasing noise and increasing p<0.0001, treatment p=0.052, interaction p=0.0018).
signal may lead to quantitatively similar SNR outcomes, Although oxytocin—-eCB interactions are therefore not respon-
they are qualitatively different. Decreasing noise allows any sible for the potentiation by TGOT in cohabitated males, we
new signal present in a social interaction to become salient found that their TGOT effect was blocked by the GABA,
for learning, while increasing signal transmission allows the receptor antagonist GABAzine (figure 3e, two-way ANOVA,
specific signal, such as one carrying information about the time p<0.0001, treatment p= 0.039, interaction p< 0.0001).
partner, to motivate action. Finally, the fact that eCBs mediate This was not the case in females (figure 3f, two-way
the pair-bonded female’s oxytocin-potentiated excitatory ANOVA, time p<0.0001, treatment p=0.96, interaction
signals in the NAc may indicate that it is the rewarding p=0.65). These results thus reveal a striking mechanistic
aspects of partner-specific social interactions that are being divergence between the sexes despite the two expressing
transmitted to bias the active selection of an affiliative behav- the same signal amplification effect in the NAc of
ioural response. This may explain why blocking CB1 pair-bonded animals in response to OXTR activation.
receptors in vivo in pair-bonded female voles selectively pre- Interactions between the oxytocin and GABAergic sys-
vents their normal tendency to reduce how long they spend tems have been previously reported, including the example
aggressively rejecting their partner in an upright posture, discussed earlier of a three-way interaction between oxytocin,
compared to their rejection of a stranger [34], even though GABA and eCBs [83]. Functionally, oxytocin-dependent
it does not strongly affect the duration of passive huddling modulation of GABA is associated with anxiolysis [92],
with their partner [91]. antinociception [93,94] or neuroprotection in stroke [95].
