and was first introduced by Brooks in 1991 [13]. Pfiefer and independent mechanism are likely to require fine-tuning to “>
Bongard’s seminal text ‘How the body shapes the way we specialize the controller to the nuances of the new body. = =
think’ [14] expanded on the idea that intelligent control is This motivates the requirement for learning to occur in = =
not only dependent on brain, but at the same time both con- addition to evolution, in order to either refine a controller = >

strained and enabled by the body. The text provides to body or create a new if the inherited controller is =
numerous examples of how intelligence might arise as a unsuitable. R
result of the interplay of morphology, materials, interaction 3
with the environment and control. . . ~
(c) If it evolves it needs to learn s
Eiben et al. proposed an evolutionary framework for robotic =
(b) Co-evolution of morphology and control evolution called the Triangle of Life (TOL) [20]. The three =
For the evolutionary roboticist, this clearly points to the fact sides of the triangle represent three phases: (i) morphogenesis ~
that to properly exploit the power of evolution to discover in which the body of a robot is created® from the specification
appropriate robots for a given task, one must consider the denoted on a genome; (ii) learning in which the new robot
co-evolution of body and control, rather than use EAs to undergoes training to improve its inherited controller, per-
either search for controllers for fixed (hand-designed) body- haps following a syllabus of increasingly complex skills in a
plans [15] or vice-versa, optimize morphology only. This restricted or simplified environment; and (iii) life, i. the
has the obvious advantage of allowing evolution to discover robot is released into the intended real environment and its
for itself the appropriate balance between morphological and fitness is measured as its ability to accomplish a task. Deviat-
neural complexity in response to the particular environment ing from much of the previous work in ER, the TOL adds a
and task under consideration. This has given rise to a thriving learning phase to the evolutionary cycle in which individual
field more generally known as morphogenetic robotics [16]: learning occurs after every new robot is ‘born’. Hale et al. [8]
defined in broad terms, this specifically includes approaches describe a physical implementation of the TOL, in which
to ‘the design of the body or body parts, including sensors robots are three-dimensionally printed then enter a simplified