constraints on their ability to cooperate [15], a bias emerged approaches that have investigated collaborative activities in =
in the study of primate cooperation and communication. The which individuals work together to achieve a common
widespread assumption is that little communication is likely goal, but we also review helping behaviour, in which one s
to occur during tasks aimed at eliciting cooperation or coordi- individual performs an action to help another one.' While =
nation and that if observed, it would mostly be manipulative in naturalistic observations are key for our understanding of S
nature and as such resisted (not responded to in alignment with communication in context, we focus on experimental studies
the intentions/goals of the communicator). because they present both a challenge and an opportunity.

Investigating non-human primates’ communication in the The challenge comes from the fact that despite many studies
service of cooperation can cast light on the flexibility of their on non-human apes’ collaboration and helping, our under-
communicative abilities, as well as the socio-cognitive skills standing of their communicative abilities for the purpose of
supporting their cooperative behaviour. Furthermore, it can cooperation is still very limited. The opportunity stems
provide new insights into the phylogenetic roots of human from the fact that, via experimental manipulation, specific
cooperation and communication. Indeed, according to the factors that affect the emergence of communication such as
interdependence hypothesis [16], it was the need to coordinate relationship between individuals, inability to solve the task
with others in stag-hunt type contexts (i.e. collaborative fora- solo, type of information needed to perform the task, can
ging that allowed individuals to capture preys otherwise all be controlled, contrary to more naturalistic settings. This
unattainable independently) that created high interdepen- provides us with a less noisy landscape to investigate the cur-
dence between individuals and pushed forward the rent questions about how and when great apes communicate
evolution of humans’ unique cooperative and communicative in cooperation tasks.
skills. Mutualistic collaboration and coordination were the In reviewing the current evidence, we have paid attention
challenge and communication helped solve that challenge. to three specific situational challenges inspired by a recent

Naturalistic observations suggest that some degree of discussion of coordination tasks in humans [25] and we ask
interdependence and the need to coordinate in specific con- what it is that needs to be conveyed to achieve success in