istic effects among traits can lead the polymorphism in one that codes for belligerence and offensive bravery

our model to become more complex and involve further (Hawks) and the other for neither (Doves, figure 3). The

traits (such as helping). The main characteristics of the frequency-dependent interactions that maintain this poly-

Hawk and Dove morphs, however, have not changed due morphism are close to those characterizing the classical


Hawk-—Dove game [46,47], where Hawks are favoured when S3a). By contrast, where relatedness is positive, highly diver- | 10 |

rare but disfavoured when common as they engage with gent morphs can be observed (electronic supplementary
other Hawks and suffer an extra (non-additive) cost due to material, figure S3b—d). In fact, limited dispersal tends to stabil-
fighting. This extra cost is typically captured in the classical ize the polymorphism (electronic supplementary material,
Hawk-Dove game by the condition that the cost C for a figure S3d), with selection remaining disruptive even where
Hawk to lose against another Hawk is greater than the dispersal is severely limited (i.e. very close to m = 0, Mathema-
value V of the resource obtained in case of a win (i.e. C>V; tica Notebook). This differs also from previous models where
whereas in the additive case C=V, which would disfavour frequency-dependent interactions happen only among indi-
Doves, always). Similarly, one prerequisite for frequency- viduals of the same group, in which limited dispersal and
dependent interactions to lead to coexistence in our model thus relatedness inhibits disruptive selection (as it reduces
is that the cost of contests is greater than additive (with the the amount of local genetic variation and thus differentiation
cost of two contests c, greater than twice the cost of a within groups [41,53-55)). =
single contest c,, c2>2c; equation (S21) in electronic sup- In spite of these group effects, one should keep in mind S
plementary material, §3). These extra costs prevent groups that selection occurs at the level of the gene (or replicator) _
of Hawks from dominating at all frequencies and allows and that these are expressed by individuals. As a result, = =