concept provides ample opportunities to explore and take-overs of existing groups and a cycle of group formation
advance both reputation-based partner choice concepts and and disbanding in which females are often not close relatives.
biological market theory. Overall, the general lack of female participation indicates that
A final point we discuss concerns the potential interaction female groups do not benefit enough from resource defence
structures between females and hired guns. More specifically, to make female participation adaptive, since their partici-
one has to ask whether females act as a community or as pation would otherwise easily tip the balance. Hence, it
individuals. The answer to this question is important to is not warranted to call these male behaviours a service to
understand how males get paid for their services. At first the females.
sight, males provide a public good to all females when In order to identify male services in the BGC context,
participating in BGCs. Therefore, all females should be willing then, it is best to concentrate on species in which philopatric,
to compensate for the service, with immediate grooming after gregarious females have a stake in defending their range and
the conflict ends and/or with copulations later. However, this its resources. Joint participation of males and females is in
scenario might lead to complications. To avoid over- fact reported for most primate species with female philopatry
compensation in terms of grooming, females would have to [51,52]. There are two experimental studies of such species
monitor each other’s behaviour. The compensation would that attempted to evoke male defence of resources for
also become a public good, and hence females might be females. One experiment by Scarry [53] showed that tufted
tempted to shirk their own contributions. While there are capuchin males approached rich contestable food patches,
potential solutions to ensure female contributions to the regardless of female fertility status, suggesting they are
public, a simpler alternative would be that specific females truly defending access to resources for their females. The
may develop frequent interactions with specific males. other experiment [31], in which vervet monkey males were
In other words, females and males develop specific social given the opportunity to defend food patches that were
bonds, also called ‘friendships’. Bonds could change the made only accessible to females, yielded no evidence of
dynamics of the exchange of male services for payment. males spontaneously providing a resource defence service
A participating male would be groomed by his bonded to their females (although they did participate when females
female rather than by any female group member, and led the group to the contested location). In fact, in this same