scenario might lead to complications. To avoid over- fact reported for most primate species with female philopatry
compensation in terms of grooming, females would have to [51,52]. There are two experimental studies of such species
monitor each other’s behaviour. The compensation would that attempted to evoke male defence of resources for
also become a public good, and hence females might be females. One experiment by Scarry [53] showed that tufted
tempted to shirk their own contributions. While there are capuchin males approached rich contestable food patches,
potential solutions to ensure female contributions to the regardless of female fertility status, suggesting they are
public, a simpler alternative would be that specific females truly defending access to resources for their females. The
may develop frequent interactions with specific males. other experiment [31], in which vervet monkey males were
In other words, females and males develop specific social given the opportunity to defend food patches that were
bonds, also called ‘friendships’. Bonds could change the made only accessible to females, yielded no evidence of
dynamics of the exchange of male services for payment. males spontaneously providing a resource defence service
A participating male would be groomed by his bonded to their females (although they did participate when females
female rather than by any female group member, and led the group to the contested location). In fact, in this same
increase his chances of mating with her. As a consequence, population, females do reward males with grooming when
males should try to adjust their services such that the they participate, or punish them by attacking them if they
bonded female benefits most. Spatial proximity would be a do not [32]. Females also mate more with participating
simple mechanism to achieve more directed services in males [54], although this pattern could potentially be con-
the context of protecting the female’s offspring against founded by other factors, like male rank. Unfortunately, no
infanticide and/or predatory attacks. In BGCs, males may data exist whether (i) an individual male is more likely to
join a fight next to their bonded female to specifically protect join if his socially closest female participates, and (ii) whether

her from harm. The resulting asymmetries in how the this female is most likely to reward and punish that male for


his actions. Without such information, we cannot assess how identify conditions under which females would benefit | 6 |