laved I role in facilitating 4 : Furth, si until ca 1 pl was obtained per plant. This volume was more S
played a central role in facilitating invasion. Further analysis than sufficient to obtain large quantifiable peaks for GTX I cam

of this model system thus has the potential to reveal a better in liquid chromatoraphy-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS) analysis =
understanding of the benefits, trade-offs, and ecological sig- (see below). So as to standardize the time point of collection 3
nificance of toxic nectar for plants, especially in terms of across individuals, nectar was sampled from flowers in their >
how plants evolve to optimize interactions with mutualists beta-phase of phenology around the time of stigma receptivity 5
and antagonists. In this study, we consider the consequences [20]. From each flower that nectar was sampled, the corolla =
of toxic nectar for pollinator health, and if and how invasive and nearest sutending leaf were also removed and immersed in =
plants can evolve to maximize the services of pollinators silica gel in snap-seal bags in a composite sample for each Ss
while maintaining their defence against herbivores. plant. The appropriateness of this sampling technique was sup- =

ported by the fact that GTXs are known to function as
constitutive defences in plants (as opposed to being specifically S
induced by damage) [9] and are comparatively stable in dried tis-
sues and in solution [21,22]. Nonetheless, care was taken not to vw

Beyond their potential influence on pollinator health,
GTXs also serve as highly effective herbivore antifeedants in
Rhododendron species [8-11]. Phenotypic correlation between

defence-related compounds in nectar and other plant parts damage any plant tissue until after nectar samples were col- R
(such as leaves and phloem) appears to be a common phenom- lected. In the laboratory, water was removed by freeze-drying
enon across plant families [5,15-17]. Thus, the potential for nectar and oven-drying leaf and flower samples at less than
conflicting pressure on GTXs from pollinators and herbivores 50°C. Dried flower and leaf samples (30 mg) were ground to a s