inhibitors, rather than contain both growth inhibitors and ever, Chen et al. [12] studied 25 animal species and found
growth enhancers, as any autosome. The model does not no correlation between N, and the level of DC (measured >
work if growth enhancers are also present on the X. by X/A and Z/A expression ratios). However, the effect of | 5
Second, for the model to apply, selection pressure to imprint N. on DC evolution is probably more complex than pre- =
growth inhibitors on the X needs to be stronger than selection viously envisioned. If recombination suppression evolves =
to adjust expression levels of all other X genes. Indeed, glob- first, followed by Y degeneration and then DC (as in the tra-
ally silencing the X is likely to be detrimental for all dosage- ditional view), then the effect of N, may depend on the =
sensitive genes, which is likely to be quantitatively much limiting factor (i.e. the step with the slowest evolutionary — 5!
stronger than the selection favouring imprinting of a few rate). If Y degeneration is the limiting step, DC evolution =
growth inhibitors. Local imprint of growth inhibitors would is likely to be faster in species with small N,, where interfer- =
definitely be less detrimental than halving female expression ence and Y degeneration is strongest. If DC is the limiting &
of all X genes. Another difficulty of the theory comes from the step, the overall process may be faster in species with larger =
fact that most tissues in placental mammals have random X N., where selection is more efficient. In the cis-regulatory x
inactivation (except for some extraembryonic tissues [113]). divergence model, the effect of N, is probably complex too. s
Haig [107,108] proposes that random X inactivation could If recombination suppression is the key limiting factor, then =
have evolved from ancestral paternal X inactivation to restore the overall evolution of sex chromosomes may be faster in SI
the advantage of diploidy and the masking of recessive dele- species with large N, [5]. However, if degeneration and DC
terious mutations in females [107,108]. However, this very are limiting, then the reverse trend may be expected [19]. In
selection against X hemizygosity should have prevented the any case, predictions are difficult to make as the different
evolution of paternal X silencing in the first place. Finally, if components of sex chromosome evolution (recombination
parental conflict indeed led to imprinted X inactivation, it is arrest, degeneration and DC) are all dependent on N, in
unclear why this imprint would be maintained in adult tis- different ways.
sues when resources are not acquired from the mother Another factor potentially influencing the evolution of
anymore and embryonic growth regulators are not expressed. DC is the size of the non-recombining region. However, its
Given these limitations, it seems unlikely that parental con- effect is again likely to be complex. In the traditional view,