mouse) and it will contribute to the placenta at the fetal- nuclei with individual cytoplasmic islands but lacking cell
maternal interface, including in human and mouse [14,15]. membranes—that remain resident throughout the yolk
In oviparous amniotes, the chorion derives from the EE ecto- mass, with catabolic products sequestered either within the
derm, and it develops to largely supplant a degenerating amniotic cavity or perivitelline space [6,11,20].

vitelline membrane, such as in the chick [13].
Similar to the vitelline membrane of oviparous amniotes, =

the zona pellucida of viviparous amniotes is a transient acellu- 3. Diverse Strateg ies of early morphogenesis for =
lar surrounding layer, from which the blastocyst embryo or . s
hatches in very early development [16]. In contrast, the insect ext raembryonic tissue formation =
vitelline membrane is a permanent eggshell component Insects and amniotes are united by the possession of a serosa 5!
that in fact crucially enables live imaging throughout embryo- and amnion, which help to delimit the egg compartments. To >
genesis, by offering transparency while maintaining egg form these structures and spaces, the predominant strategy is =
structure (e.g. [17,18]). creation of the amniotic cavity from advancing serosal-amnio- = &
Distinct from the amniotic cavity and perivitelline space tic folds. Yet within each of these two major animal groups, =
between the serosa/chorion and eggshell, a third compart- species employ different morphogenetic processes. To capture
ment is the yolk sac (visceral yolk sac in mice). While this commonality and some of the wider morphogenetic diver- s
present in both insects and amniotes, this structure differs sity of amnion formation, we compare five key species in detail =
between species in two respects. First, for embryos that (figure 2): the milkweed bug Oncopeltus fasciatus, the flour S
develop within an egg, the yolk sac contains lipid- and beetle Tribolium castaneum, the chicken (Gallus gallus), the
protein-rich yolk as nutrition for the developing embryo, human (Homo sapiens) and the mouse (Mus musculus).
whereas in viviparous amniotes the yolk sac content has a In oviparous species of insects and amniotes, early clea-
fluid-based composition [11,19,20]. Second, in amniotes the vage produces the blastoderm, an epithelialized cell layer on
primitive endoderm (or hypoblast) extends beyond the the yolk surface. Initial differentiation distinguishes the