established colour theory [1,5,6] and is applicable to any For dichromats, this visualization simplifies to a line, for
animal for which the photoreceptor spectral sensitivities are trichromats it is a triangle, and for tetrachromats, a tetrahe-
known. Our approach allows the reconstruction of a variety of dron. The loci of single wavelengths can be mapped onto
stimuli, including some that are hard to reproduce ina laboratory these spaces as a one-dimensional manifold, as can theoretical
setting, such as natural images. Importantly, our methods are ‘non-spectral’ colour lines. Non-spectral colours result from
flexible to various modelling parameters and can account for the predominant excitation of photoreceptor pairs that are
uncertainties in the spectral sensitivities. Even though we pro- not adjacent along the single wavelength manifold [9,10].
vide mathematical tools to select appropriate light sources, our Although the number of photoreceptors, which deter-
methods are ultimately agnostic of the hardware used for mines the dimensionality of the receptor-based space, is not
visual stimulation. For this reason, our method can be used as always equal to the effective dimensionality of perceived col-
a colour management tool to control conversion between ours [11], it provides its theoretical maximum. The effective
colour representations of various stimulus devices. We illustrate dimensionality depends on the processing of photoreceptor
basic principles as well as examples of our algorithms using the signals in the brain. In fact, neural processing effectively dis-
colour systems of mice, bees, humans, fruit flies and zebrafish. torts the shape of receptor-based spaces, to eventually

produce a perceptual space, where distances do not necess-
arily match the distances measured in receptor-based spaces.
Receptor-based spaces are, however, a good starting point

2. Colour theory and colour spaces to mathematically approximate the transformations that the
As colour scientists, we aim to understand how a given brain applies to photoreceptor inputs. They can in particular
animal processes spectral information and thus perceives serve to design relevant chromatic stimuli to interrogate these
colour. A ‘perceptual colour’ space gives an approximation transformations experimentally. Throughout this paper, we
of how physical properties of light are experienced by the will use receptor-based colour spaces as the foundation for
viewer. CIE 1931 colour spaces, for instance, are defined a unified framework for developing such chromatic stimuli.