erties such as cell-cell contact, relative cell position and cell .
shape all play relevant roles in EVL_ specification pa terning
(figure 2c). Cell-cell contact or close cell proximity is required (a) Yolk, yolk syncytial layer and dorsoventral
for EVL specification and, consequently, surface blastoderm
cells in zebrafish embryos with defective tight junctions patterning
[79], transplanted as single cells into host embryos [55] and The interaction between the blastoderm and yolk begins as
dissociated from embryo explants [66] fail to commit and soon as fertilization is completed. As discussed above, a cell
differentiate as EVL. Furthermore, only the most superficial cycle-dependent mechanism of the blastoderm synchronizes
cells of the blastoderm, which are contacted with other cells the pulling of the yolk granules towards the vegetal pole Ss
basolaterally but not apically, are able to specify as EVL and thus contributes to the reorganization of maternally = =
cells, indicating that such positional asymmetry probably derived molecular components during ooplasmic segregation — 5!
related to differences in surface tension is necessary for (see above, §4a). Subsequently, the ordered pattern of cell = &
proper differentiation [24,55,66,68]. In fact, even in cell aggre- cleavage events that follows in the blastoderm appear to =
gates of the ectodermal germ layer where EVL cells require a minimal amount of yolk. A prominent set of exper- = &
differentiate de novo they do so only on the surface [68]. Fur- iments in which yolk supply was serially reduced using =
thermore, a change in the orientation of cell division from Fundulus, Carassius, Salmo and zebrafish eggs demonstrated x
initially occurring out-of-plane (i.e. generating one daughter that for embryo development to occur, the size of the yolk =~
EVL cell on the surface and one DCL cell below) to being must at least exceed that of the blastoderm [19,84-88]. Manip- =
in-plane (i.e. generating two daughter EVL cells on the sur- ulations of the yolk content at different stages also revealed S
face) is essential for EVL lineage separation. Importantly, in that very early subtractions, i. before the 4-cell stage,
vivo imaging studies and mathematical modelling show that severely affect the cell cleavage pattern resulting in a disorga-
this change in division orientation is not determined by line- nized cell mass, originally known as hyperblastula. However,
age, but by cell shape (figure 2c), being the result of a closed yolk subtractions at the 32-cell stage or later can generate exo-
morphogenetic feedback loop between cell shape and cell gastrulae (reviewed in [19]). Therefore, the presence of a
number that couples geometric constraints through mechan- minimal amount of yolk supply, which probably functions