ent surfaces tend to be preserved under daylight changes suggest an important role for extensive spatial mechanisms

[63]. Spatial or temporal processes for encoding such ratios for colour constancy in bees. The results of these experiments


were successfully modelled by a spatial algorithm (Bee-Reti- experiments to test human colour constancy performance

nex) that computes the ratio between postreceptoral signals using the Bee-Mondrian. Here, the colour plates and the illu-
for a target area and the average of the signals for the context mination were adapted to the spectral sensitivity of the
[38]. It is important that the operation is spatially extensive to human eye. As with the bees, the illumination changes were
ensure that the colour coding does not depend only on the made so that they shifted the colour locus of an alternative
immediate backgrounds. plate exactly to the learned colour locus. The colour constancy
In fact, the chequerboard pattern of the Bee-Mondrian performance was determined by a memory task in which the
turns out to be a critical test for the contribution of local subjects had to identify the ‘training stimulus’ when presented
versus long-range contextual mechanisms in colour constancy in different positions in the Mondrian. The colours of the train-
since it impairs the use of local contrast. The typical Mondrian ing and matching plates were selected from the blue, blue—
used for testing human colour constancy is made up of adjoin- green and green colour regions. The results showed that in
ing and even overlapping colour panels. It is therefore four out of five experiments the ‘training plates’ were indeed
interesting to ask about the colour constancy of human obser- successfully recognized after the illumination change. This
vers when using the Bee-Mondrian. Wide-ranging spatial supports the notion that spatially extensive contextual oper-
mechanisms are known [70,71], but the effectiveness of these ations are important for colour constancy. Furthermore, they
interactions depends on the distance between the colour seem to be implemented not only in the human colour code
surfaces [72,73]. For this reason, Werner [74] conducted but also in colour vision of unrelated species like insects.

(b)