suggesting that an increase in social complexity evolved in coevolved with social complexity, but not with socio-


ecological factors such as habitat or the number of sympatric Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this article have been | 10 |

species. Evolutionary changes in social complexity presum- uploaded as part of the electronic supplementary material [130].
ably antedated corresponding changes in communicative Authors’ contributions. C.F.: conceptualization, data curation, formal 3
complexity. These main results support key predictions of analysis, investigation, methodology, visualization, writing—original =
the SCHCC. In addition, communicative complexity coe- draft; PM.K: conceptualization, writing review and editing. ay
wae . . Both authors gave final approval for publication and agreed tobe =
volved across modalities possibly as an ‘an integrated held accountable for the work performed therein. z
whole’ to facilitate communication during social interactions. Conflict of interest deciaration. We have no competing interests. =
The fact that signals and cues—in particular multimodal sig- . . . pens =
‘ . . a Funding. We received no funding for this study. a
nals—are perceived by a mix of different sensory modalities Se
[2] supports this notion. Hence, further studies are now indi- Acknowledgments We are very grateful to Anna and Sam Roberts forthe =‘
. soos . invitation to contribute to this special issue. We thank Robin Dunbar, e
cated to examine whether communicative complexity across Dan Blumstein and an anonymous reviewer for thoughtful com- S
modalities also coevolved with sociality and whether social- ments on the manuscript. We are also grateful to Roger Mundry >
ity influences the evolution of signals in other taxa. and Dieter Lukas for their outstanding statistical support. S
2
References S
a
~
1. Freeberg TM, Dunbar RIM, Ord TJ. 2012 12. Kavanagh E et al. 2021 Dominance style is a key sociality in lizards. Proc. R. Soc. B 288, 20202438. 4)