misrepresentation in the press of otherwise important research. the way any one organism does these things depends on the =
Consistent with the idea of conserved survival circuitry in kind of body its species evolved. For example, differentmam- = &
diverse animals is the fact that, as mentioned above, some malian species flee from danger by running, flying or ©
genes and molecules involved in implicit learning about and swimming, depending on the kind of locomotory capacities S
control of behaviours in the presence of threat are conserved that evolved with their bodies. In short, behaviours are bau- %
in vertebrates and invertebrates. This does not necessarily plan-dependent (species-specific) survival implementations =
mean that having the genes shows that the function is con- of universal (species-general) survival requirements. And sur- S
served. But the correlation between the presence of the genes vival circuits are the species-specific neural implementation by
and the function is at least suggestive that similarities in implicit which the behavioural implementation of the universal
forms of learning in vertebrates and invertebrates may be due to requirement is achieved in each animal.
acommon set of synaptic plasticity-related genes inherited from The point is, we should not be looking for how motor fea-
a common basal ancestor. Research using modern genetic tools, tures of defensive or feeding behaviours were passed on from
in fact, supports this suggestion [74-76]. bacteria to archaea, and from them to protozoa and from them
But the connection runs deeper. Some of these plasticity to animals. How animals manage survival motorically is essen-
genes and molecules are present in radial organisms with dif- tially an artefact of their species’ body plan. Therefore, what we
fuse, poorly centralized, nervous systems, like jellyfish and need to understand are the physiological substrata of survival
hydra, which express simple forms of learning [77]. Some functions that have been maintained across evolutionary tran-
of these genes and molecules also exist in sponges, which sitions to ensure that animals possess body plan-appropriate,
lack nervous systems, but may, long ago, have had one [78]. life-sustaining motoric responses that sustain individual life.

However, the focus on inherited features of nervous systems
may be the wrong emphasis, as the trend predates neurons
and synapses.

Single-cell protozoa share a common ancestor with ani- 8. Human emotional experience