landscape, and so individual songs might contain fewer nonhuman primates (e.g. ChimpFACS [27], MaqFACS [29]) do =
sequences, be more repetitive, and be louder. Furthermore, not generally include guidance for coding intensity of action Ss
alarm calls of many species reduce ambiguity with specificity units (AUs), and studies using FACS in non-humans tend to con-
and intensity. Vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus pygerythrus) exhi- centrate on comparison of AU combinations between contexts
bit distinct calls when they sight a leopard, eagle or snake [8], and/or species rather than on the variability or intensity of
while meerkats and prairie dogs each have very complex facial movements in single interactions. In non-human primates,
alarm call repertoires where calls are tailored to a specific only one study has so far examined the intensity of AUs [17],
threat, encoding information about not only the type of pred- finding reduced intensity in bared-teeth displays associated
ator but also how far away it is and whether it is moving with affiliation compared to displays associated with copulation
[9-11]. Courtship rituals often involve intense energetic dis- or submission. The same study found that crested macaque
plays and combinations of multiple signal modalities (e.g. bared-teeth displays were more variable in affiliative contexts
widowbirds [12], sage grouse [13]) and male-male compe- than in play, submission and copulation contexts. One study of
tition often involves intense displays (e.g. red deer roars [14]). play in gorillas that did not use FACS methodology or measure
Insum, there is a great deal of evidence for increased inten- intensity of single movements found that more intense play
sity and specificity of communicative signals that are used (1) bouts involved higher rates of lip withdrawal [30], which
for more immediately important functions, such as mating would appear to tally with our expectation of more intense sig-
and survival and (2) in conditions that are susceptible to uncer- nals in situations where ambiguity of signals would be costly.
tainty and high costs of failure. However, non-human primates Wider research has concentrated on quantifying the variability
can also use signals flexibly; for example, great apes with small of facial communication systems by building repertoires of
vocal repertoires use calls in a variety of contexts, with out- AUs for entire species (e.g. [20,22]), rather than examining in
comes less tightly tied to the signals themselves but rather to high temporal resolution the variability of movements involved
the context, in terms of both the immediate behaviour accom- in single interactions. With FACS, variability of movements can
panying the signal and the pre-existing relationship between be quantified in various ways, including the repertoire of AUs
the signaller and receiver [15]. In this example, it could be (e.g. [20]), the diversity of AUs produced (e.g. [22]), the repertoire
argued that the signal is under less constraint because the of AU combinations (e.g. [22]) and the rate of change of AU com-