Data were collected between December 2018 and April 2019 at gS
the Macaca Nigra Project (MNP; www.macaca-nigra.org) field phases, such as aggression followed by reconciliation; in these
site in Tangkoko-Batuangus Nature Reserve, North Sulawesi, cases, we split the footage into two or more clips so that facial
Indonesia (study site described in detail in [36,37]). At that site, behaviour produced before aggressive acts was analysed separ-
we followed members of two different social groups, conducting ately from that produced before affiliative behaviours.
focal follows of known adult individuals [38]. In one group During data cleansing, we adjudged whether clips were of suf-
(PB1b) we followed all adults, and due to the female-biased ficient quality to enable FACS coding, discarding clips where
sex ratio of this group we also followed all adult males in a visibility of the face was inadequate, for example due to distance,
second group (R2) in order to get a more representative sample poor focus or presence of obstructions. From a total of 1545 video
of expressions produced by males. Full details of the groups clips collected, this yielded a total of 506 codable videos. In 142 of
and the individuals followed are shown in table 1. In focal obser- these, the signaller or receiver was unknown, meaning dyadic
vations, two observers followed an individual at a distance of 3- information was not available. The remaining 364 clips, showing
20 m, depending on terrain, vegetation, and the location of the facial movements of 35 different individuals in total, were FACS
individual within the group. One observer kept a video camera coded and analysed. Each clip showed a single interaction, in
(Panasonic HDC-SD700, Bracknell, UK) trained on the animal’s which both signaller and receiver were individually recognizable
face and activated the pre-record function on the camera when- adults or subadults, enabling the calculation of standard measures
ever a facial movement was produced and whenever another of dominance relationship and social bonds (detailed below).

individual approached or was approached by the focal animal.
The other observer used a tablet computer with a purpose-

built macro in Microsoft Excel to collect continuous behavioural (d FACS coding

data, including general activity (move, rest, forage etc.) and Video clips were coded using BORIS [39] by a certified MaqFACS
detailed records of social interactions, and scan data (every five coder (P.C.) following the guidelines of MaqFACS [29], which are