five questions: (i) where generativity might be implemented in is important for the capacity to generate mental displacements
the brain, (ii) how generative neural activity can be identified, from actual present circumstances, whether in time, space, per-
(iii) what candidate generative neural activity patterns and sonal perspective and possibly other domains [14,17,19,28,29].
representational correlates have been previously described Thus, although the cognitive role of the hippocampus is often
and (iv) how the brain can organize actual versus generative conceptualized in relation to prior experience (i.e. episodic
activity patterns. This discussion establishes that the hippo- recollection, recall) or explicitly anticipated experience (i.e.
campus, a brain structure in the medial temporal lobe, is a planning, prospection) [30-32], the hippocampus appears to
candidate biological substrate of generativity, and that patterns play a more general role in imaginary experience [29].
of hippocampal neural firing reflect generative processes In efforts to clarify this role, studies have often probed the
by representing a diverse range of alternatives to ongoing availability and character of mental imagery. Several further
experience. Finally, we consider (v) what these observations studies help refine the role of the hippocampus beyond the
suggest about the biological basis of generativity and its role observation mentioned above that hippocampal damage
in cognition. More specifically, in light of recent findings at is associated with deficits in vividly visualizing fictional
the level of neuronal firing patterns in rodents, in addition to scenes. First, patients with partial hippocampal lesions show
brain research related to imagination in humans, we suggest activation of residual hippocampal tissue when tasked with
that the hippocampus—often understood as a system that imagining complex scenes [33,34]. Second, one patient with
characteristically represents actual experience, whether in the longstanding hippocampal damage found it effortful but
past, present or anticipated future—may be better understood possible to visualize single imaginary objects and simple
as a system that also represents imagined alternatives to scenes, yet could not readily imagine complex scenes in one
actual experience. automatic and coherent picture—instead, he built up the

scenes ‘bit by bit’ [33]. Residual hippocampal tissue in this
patient was not activated during these tasks as it was in

2. The hippocampus as a locus of generativity control participants [33]. These findings suggest that the hip-