probability that ball B would
have gone through the gate

0-0 at Z ply | do(’)) ~ 0.5

probability that ball B
would go through the gate

Figure 5. Diagrams illustrating what actually happened as well as how hypothetical simulations and counterfactual simulations are generated. (a) In the actual
situation, ball A was present in the scene (x), the block did not end up in front of the gate (z’), and ball B went through the gate (y). (b) To compute the
hypothetical probability of whether ball B would miss the gate if ball A were not present in the scene p(y'|do(x’)), the model removes ball A from the
scene, and then simulates what would happen. The dashed path illustrates ball B’s movement in the simulation. At each moment in the simulation, a small
degree of noise is added to ball B’s trajectory to capture the fact that participants have some degree of uncertainty about exactly how ball B would move if
ball A were not there. In some of the simulations the block stays put (see top example) while in others the block moves (bottom example). (c) To compute
the counterfactual probability of whether ball B would have missed the gate if ball A had not been present in the scene p(y’y|x, y), the model first takes
into account everything that actually happened which includes whether or not the block moved. It then goes back in time (indicated by the dotted arrow in
the diagram) to replay the clip with ball A removed. Based on the outcome of many such simulations, the hypothetical probability with which ball B would
go through the gate if ball A were not present is around 50% because the block moves with 50% probability. The counterfactual probability with which ball
B would have gone through the gate if ball A had not been present in the scene is close to 100% because the block always moves in each counterfactual simulation
just like it did in the actual situation. (Online version in colour.)

takes into account the full clip until the end. So it observes set the probability that the block will move to p=0.5. If the
whether or not ball B went into the gate, and also whether block moves, then the model is uncertain about exactly
or not (and when) the block moved. When the model now when the block will start moving. I model this uncertainty
simulates what would have happened if ball A had not by adding noise to the actual time point in the physical simu-