
the whole time (clips 4 and 8) compared to when the block vw
moved out of the way (clips 1 and 5). Similarly, their judge- lision between the balls and participants judged whether ball B a
ments tended to be lower when the block was in front of would go through the gate if ball A was not present in the
the gate the whole time (clips 2 and 6) compared to when it scene. Here, participants’ judgements were only affected by =
moved into the way (clips 3 and 7). where the block was positioned at the time when video clip 2

paused. Participants’ hypothetical judgements that ball B
would go through were a little higher when the block was

(e) Model comparison initially out of the way than when it was in the way. I had
As figure 7 shows, the simulation model closely tracks told participants in the instructions that the block sometimes
participants’ hypothetical and counterfactual judgements moves. While in fact the probability that the block moved
(Pearson correlation: r= 0.97, Spearman correlation: r; = 0.79, was 50% across the ten clips that participants saw, they did
Root mean squared error (RMSE) = 12.50). The simulation not know this. So it makes sense that they would assume
model has two free parameters: one that captures participants’ that ball B would be less likely to go into the gate when the
uncertainty in how exactly ball B would have moved if ball A block was initially in the way than when it was out of the way.’
had not been present in the scene op, and one that captures In the counterfactual condition, the clips played until the
participants’ uncertainty about the moment in time in which end so participants were able to see whether or not the block
the block would have started to move Opjock. I fitted these moved in the actual situation. Here, participants’ judgements
two parameters in the model to participants’ judgements by were most strongly affected by the final position of the block.
minimizing the sum of squared errors between model predic- They agreed that ball B would have gone through the gate if
tions and participants’ mean hypothetical and counterfactual ball A had not been present when the final position of the
judgements (see appendix for more details on how the par- block was out of the way, and disagreed when the block
ameters were fitted). This analysis reveals that uncertainty ended up in front of the gate. Their judgements were