ingly, children appear to master this task relatively late by dren. This approach does not rely on asking children any
around 5 years of age [85-93]. While earlier work claimed explicit counterfactual questions. Instead, to demonstrate coun-
that 3-year-old children can already reason correctly about terfactual reasoning, it would appear to be sufficient to show
counterfactuals [94], later work argued that these early suc- that children’s causal judgements aligned with those of adults.

cesses may have been false alarms. In one of the scenarios in
Harris et al.’s [94] study, Carol walks across a floor with dirty

shoes. When asked ‘What if Carol had taken her shoes off— (0 What could have been better, and what would be

would the floor be dirty?’ even 3-year-old children answered good
correctly with ‘no’. However, it is possible that children The work presented here suggests that the process of counter-
answered this question without running through a counterfac- factual simulation is critical for understanding causal
tual simulation of what would have happened, and relying on judgements. However, there are some theoretical and empirical
basic conditional reasoning instead [95]. In general, if shoes are limitations. On the theoretical side, there is a question about
dirty the floor gets dirty, and if shoes are clean the floor stays how exactly the distinction between hypotheticals and counter-
clean. To tease apart counterfactual reasoning from basic con- factuals in Pearl's [6] framework maps onto the distinctions
ditional reasoning, Rafetseder et al. [96] added a second drawn here in this paper. In Pearl's [6] framework, the differ-
character who also walked across the floor with dirty shoes. ence between hypotheticals and counterfactuals arises from
Now the correct answer to the question of whether the floor the computational tasks that the model can solve at different
would have been dirty if Carol had taken her shoes off is levels of the hierarchy. Only on level III is the model able to
‘yes’, because of the other child. Rafetseder et al. [96] found first condition on what actually happened, and then consider
that in this setting in which the outcome was causally overdeter- an intervention that is counter to what actually happened. As
mined, even 6-year-old children tended to get it wrong. illustrated in the sprinkler example (figure 3), one way to
Recently, Nyhout & Ganea [97] reported mature coun- implement this computationally is via using a twin network