more complex cultures and/or more flexible deployment of or delay gratification, for fairly long periods of time [70], see-
cultural variants. More specifically, we postulate that future mingly essential for any behaviour that involves future
planning is especially important in two ways. First, future planning, their inhibitory ability can be surprisingly inflexible,
planning can help generate new or more complex behaviours with animals struggling to inhibit previously learned outcomes
as a spur for initial innovation and modification. Second, in order to learn new, better, ones [71-73]. This is a significant
future planning could aid in the selectivity needed at the constraint on evolving cultural complexity, which, in humans,
stage of social transmission, prioritizing behaviours that often involves solutions or behaviours of ever-increasing com-
pay in the future (selective social learning strategies such as plexity, as in cultural ‘ratcheting’ [74]. It may also constrain
‘copy in proportion to future payoffs’: [42, p. 226]). animals’ ability to use future planning to recognize potentially
Further, consideration needs to be given to the potential beneficial innovations or prioritize different behaviours in
limitations or constraints in future planning and what it different contexts. Similarly, differences in the forms and/or
means, if anything, for the extent of cultural capacities. For strength of causal reasoning across species may limit problem
example, does the fact that children plan more steps ahead solving and constrain the content of plans, in turn impacting
than their primate relatives [60,61] allow them to better recog- the developmental space for cultural traits. As discussed by

nize the future benefits of others’ behaviour? That is, with Seed & Laland [40], while some primates and corvids share


with humans the recognition of relevant tool properties (e.g. users to learn from the experiences of others, which in turn

their length), they fair less well with understanding deeper may improve the accuracy and breadth of prospective cogni-
causal relationships, such as the properties that are percep- tion as individuals can prepare for events they themselves
tually opaque (e.g. gravity) that help humans construct have not experienced, but have gained knowledge of through
general theories of hidden causation. These general theories interacting with others. This opens additional possibilities to
of causation and the ability to reason about opaque forces, consider the future, which will probably open even more pos-