that we ha=ve, of what their interlocutor can deal with in terms of complex-
[(H) And] was kinda letting the scientific method be the -- ity or background knowledge. Thus, speakers cannot plan the
MICHAEL: [Mhm]. perfect utterance in advance. In dialogue, utterances are
JIM: be the leader negotiated through feedback and eventually repaired, to fit
the needs of the speakers involved.

Schegloff et al. [18] argued that speakers prefer to repair
their utterances when they are suboptimal for themselves and
their interlocutors and to initiate the repair before the interlocu-
tors do. This means that speakers try to reduce the overall work
of the dyad, by correcting themselves as soon as they detect an
error. They can do so because they have access to what they are
producing before the others do. In fact, speakers do not only
predict and monitor their interlocutor’s utterances but they
also predict and monitor their own utterances. This means
what Jim was saying. That is, he indicated that he believed that they check if what they predicted they would say turns
that the representations both of Jim’s language and of out to be what they actually utter. If it does not, they can refor-
Jim's message were the same as Jim’s. By comparing what mulate their plan and correct themselves, typically before their
he predicted and what Jim said, Michael was confident interlocutor can correct them, using self-initiated repair [19].
enough to acknowledge alignment over the concept SCIEN- Thus, the self-initiated repair is likely to reduce the collaborative
TIFIC-METHOD. Using Michael’s commentary, Jim in turn effort needed to align on the goal of the conversation, as other-
meta-represented that he was aligned with Michael. He, initiated repair requires more turns (and presumably words) to
therefore, continued with his argument (as there was no detect and correct the error.
need to reformulate). Note that Jim did not necessarily When self-initiated repair is not possible, and speakers
assume that they had the same opinion about the validity need their interlocutor to guide them, interlocutors often