in the learning literature. Social communicative signals (both ism but rather a number of cognitive processes, which may be =
verbal and non-verbal e.g. pointing, eye-gaze) are overtly absent in a non-interactive situation. During interactive learn- = &
employed by an expert (the teacher) to transfer information ing, learner-teacher dynamics may be characterized by joint =
to a novice (the learner [100,101]). The teacher’s communi- attention [99], common ground [93], shared intentionality =
cation is functional to achieve successful teaching (and in [94] or all these processes together [108]. These mechanisms s
turn someone else’s learning), and as such is explicitly adjusted of attunement between two or more conversational partners =
to maintain the learner’s attention and assist information may allow information to be shared more effectively, and in a
transfer. The teacher’s communicative actions are therefore turn be advantageous in those situations when we learn
the other fundamental aspects to consider in the study of socially [109,110].
human learning. One approach to examining the rich and complex dynamics
The fact that teachers can adjust their verbal and non-verbal of interpersonal interaction is to argue that social interaction is
behaviour to assist the learner has been demonstrated in the more than just a context for social cognitive processes, but in
case of both children and adult learners. For example, in their fact replaces individual mechanisms [111]. In such an enactive
study, Brand et al. [102] showed that carers deliberately model, the inter-personal relational dynamics become auton-
modified both their language and their actions when omous from the single individual parts making up the
sharing information about novel object properties with infants interaction. This implies that traditional single-person models
compared to adults (who presumably were not novice to have little relevance to the two-person interaction, and that
those objects). Similarly, Vigliocco et al. [103] further showed researchers need to find a new type of dynamic model to
that carers adapted their language and their actions when understand interaction at a more abstract level.
presenting unknown versus known objects to their 2-3-year- However, we argue for a more incremental approach,
old children. Similar modification of action with pedagogical where social interaction is included as an additional necessary
intentions has been demonstrated in adults. In three element in the study of human cognition. As such, interperso-
experiments, McEllin et al. [104] recorded movements of par- nal interactions can be integrated into—and understood by
ticipants playing simple xylophone melodies either alone, for building on—models of the solo brain. For example, we
a learner watching them, or together with another participant. know that learning a new concept from a video will involve