common ground with accounts of computational psychiatry, either (third-person) inferential or (first-person) phenomeno- =
such as the HIPPEA ([86]; for High Inflexible Precision of Pre- logical processes. By contrast—but also complementarily—to = &
diction Errors) and the aberrant precision one [87], which such accounts, second-person accounts emphasize the role of iat
attempt to redefine autism as a deficit of domain-general the real time and reciprocal dynamics of social interactionsin 3
information processing, explaining difficulties such as rel- making sense of others: ‘These accounts—sometimes contras- sy
evant to theory of mind, executive dysfunction and central tively described as the ‘second-person’ approach to other =
coherence under a common umbrella. Notably, while these minds—ask whether social cognition from an observer's &
accounts constitute an important development, touching point of view is really the most pervasive way of knowing
also upon certain social aspects, they still view the condition other minds and suggest that social cognition may be funda-
from a methodologically individualistic perspective: the def- mentally different when we are actively engaged with others
icit or difference lies exclusively in the autistic individual. A in ongoing social interaction, ie. when we engage in social
relevant account to the dialectical misattunement hypothesis cognition from an interactor’s point of view’ ([101]; see also
within the sociological field is the ‘double empathy problem’ [76,102,103]). In fact, it has been suggested that social inter-
(DEP), which insightfully questions the ontological status of action in and of itself might even constitute—rather than
autism as articulated in prominent cognitivist accounts in merely contextualize or enable—social cognition (cf. partici-
favour of an interactional and relational one [88]. Although patory sense making; [24,104]). In our opinion, what is
the DEP has been an important idea, helping shift the crucial in this debate is to preclude the empirical paradigm
perspective to autism away from methodologically indivi- from a priori prioritizing selected aspects of human
dualistic approaches, it still remains relatively agnostic experience and psychopathology.
about the key psychophysiological processes. In a nutshell, collective psychophysiology comprises a
In a nutshell, due to various conceptual and methodo- recent empirical paradigm that synthesizes and extends exper-
logical, but also societal constraints, sociological and imental and observational approaches, ranging from strictly
psychophysiological processes have been largely studied in structured and free viewing tasks to real-time social interaction
isolation [89,90]. In fact, it has been suggested that the study and real-life aspects. This allows for the controlled recording
of the single brain can be in-principle sufficient to understand of high-resolution datasets from multiple modalities, while