concept use, a condensed form might be more effective. in the word meaning with more abstract words, feel less con-
fident that even the experts know the word meaning [52], and
feel they need the help of others more to learn the word
(b) Inner speech during conceptual use meaning [10]. This feeling of uncertainty is the product of
The greater difficulty of abstract words, also evidenced by the an evaluation of our own knowledge and is therefore meta-
later age of acquisition in children, results in the well-known cognitive. Basically, we explicitly evaluate our (abstract)
concreteness effect, ie. the longer reaction time in processing concepts as full of gaps. Notably, one could object that this
abstract compared with concrete words [46] and the greater feeling of uncertainty following a monitoring process might
difficulty in recalling abstract compared with concrete occur with many different concepts, particularly difficult
terms. The causes of the concreteness effect have been ones. As previously explained, we believe that the distinction
ascribed variously: to the fact that abstract concepts are lin- between concrete and abstract concepts is nuanced. Hence,
guistically coded, in the framework of the dual code theory we think that this uncertainty might characterize various con-
(DCT) [46]; to the fact that abstract concepts evoke many con- cepts, but to a larger extent those that refer to heterogeneous
texts but are less tightly linked to a specific context, in the members and the meaning of which is more indetermi-
framework of the context availability theory (CAT) [47]; or nate and negotiable, like abstract concepts [51,53], and in
to the fact that abstract concepts are characterized by a particular for the more abstract among these concepts.
lower degree of perceptual strength [48]. We propose that inner speech plays a crucial function in
Whatever the explanation of the concreteness effect, the coping with the uncertainty that these concepts elicit. Impor-
use of abstract words, which express abstract concepts, typi- tantly, we propose that different functions of inner speech
cally involves uncertainty. This is particularly evident when, might be exploited in various contexts, with different kinds
while reading or engaging in a conversation, we encounter an of inner speech activated (figure 1). This proposal should
abstract word. In a study in which participants responded to be tested and verified in light of experimental evidence. To
a sentence involving different kinds of concrete and abstract test the involvement of articulated inner speech, articulatory
concepts, we found clear signals of this uncertainty. When suppression and other verbal interference tasks could be
participants had to respond to sentences involving abstract employed, including surface electromyography (EMG) (but