informed) multi-dimensional feature space (cf. autism space actions with others, ranging from significant others to the
within a broader inter-condition space) is constructed, therapists themselves. In a nutshell, a combined approach
being motivated by, and resulting in, increasingly sophisti- of dynamical systems analyses, computational modelling
cated units of analyses and experimental designs. This and machine learning will help to provide a mechanistic
pipeline is thought to perform repeated cycles: from the account of interpersonal misattunement, that is, when, how
definition of the units of analysis and experimental mea- and why social interactions go wrong, across scales and
surements to computational modelling, machine learning, levels of description, by virtue of bridging the gap between
data interpretation and back to the redefinition of the units social interaction, behaviour and biology.
of analysis. In other words, this research line is meant to Our formal approach eventually aims at embracing
perform a periodic movement, without returning to the the individual not only personally but also interpersonally,
same point. pointing toward the development of an inter-personalized

In short, the proposed procedure is expected to delineate psychiatry. In fact, we deliberately introduce the new term
a dynamic multi-scale space of conditions that will be popu- of inter-personalized psychiatry—in contradistinction to
lated by not only individual parameters and states, but also personalized psychiatry—to make a case for taking social inter-
interactive and relational ones [59,98], potentially encapsulat- actions seriously across all domains of research and practice,
ing fuzzy clusters of (sub-)conditions [116]. Our assumption, from conceptual, empirical and computational analyses, to
here, is that fine-grained, objective measurements of social clinical and societal practice. The promising notion of person-
interactions could help to identify, in a data-driven manner, alized medicine has been built around the premise that ‘an
how belonging to a certain diagnostic category possibly individual’s unique physiologic characteristics play a signifi-

reflects certain social interaction patterns. In doing so, it cant role in both disease vulnerability and in response to


specific therapies’ [118]. While the idea can be traced back to, explanations for disorders. Neurobiological processes have