speech. A well-known problem with trying to capture meaning tasks. Many of these design features are likely to be particularly
in terms of inner speech is that this move seems to accomplish helpful with abstract concepts.

little more that shift the theoretical challenges up a level. Posit-
ing that actual speech is understood in terms of inner speech

just raises the question of how inner speech is understood. 3. A multimodal, multilevel and flexible
After all, it would be implausible to hold that inner speech is
comprehended by some inner homunculus. appro ach

These prima facie challenges may in part explain why To assess the possible contribution of language to embodied
researchers have been hesitant to view language itself as a cognition, we need to be clear about what embodiment entails.
source of embodiment. This essay is an attempt to overcome Consistent with the fact that embodied cognition is an active
this hesitancy. In it, I enumerate the empirical and theoretical and dynamic research programme, the notion of embodiment
reasons to include language within an embodied account of cog- has evolved over time. Early on, embodiment was tied to
nition. In other words, I argue that reconceiving the role of what has been called strong embodiment. This term refers to
language in embodied cognition is a promising research topic. accounts that limit simulations to primary sensorimotor areas.

One way to conceptualize the proposal that language is a What is central to a strongly embodied account of concepts is
source of embodiment is to think of the language system as a that conceptual processing involves modality-specific, lower-
kind of experiential modality. While this is not compatible level experiential representations. Many researchers have
with a view of embodiment that limits it to primary sensorimo- moved froma strong conception of embodiment to a weak con-
tor areas, it fits with the current recognition that experiential ception that is both fundamentally multimodal and multilevel.
systems often rely on multimodal regions. Few would argue, This shift has occurred for several reasons. First, it seems likely
for instance, that gustation is not a mode of experience because that embodied simulations include fundamentally multimodal