key species in terrestrial habitats, such as Joshua trees [87], Moving into the regional/global scales requires dealing =
habitat loss and warming can end in extinction by the end with strong constraints. Consider tree planting in habitats
of the century unless active protection is implemented. But where no forests are present. When dealing with large-scale
again, telling the time for extinction is not easy. An added afforestation, the greatest obstacles emerge from the water
complication in predicting extinction is connected to the exist- requirements. Such projects have been shown to create unde-
ence of very long transients in ecosystem responses [96]. It is sirable effects due to increased runoff or reduction of water
now well known that some dynamical systems close to cata- availability along with other drawbacks [106-108]. Big
strophic shifts can exhibit extremely long delays before they hopes have been focused for example in the creation of
jump into collapse. This is the case for example of green- green walls, i.e. massive afforestation of millions of hectares.
desert transitions [97,98] in drylands models, where veg- The African Green Wall (figure 2e) is one example of such
etation cover might persist long after crossing the tipping megaengineering that aims at creating a living barrier to
point. Since a species can live in this transient configuration, the expansion of the Sahara desert. Here too both human
it might appear healthy when in fact collapse is inevitable. and climatic factors are equally relevant; and despite the
There is however a bright side: unexpectedly, models also potential promise, costs are high and climate and human fac-
indicate that small perturbations could help maintain the tors interact [109]. A similar situation is to be found when
ecosystem in the green phase [97]. dealing with large-scale management of marine ecosystems.

How can we actively intervene to avoid biodiversity In this case, losses are smaller than those seen in land ecosys-
losses associated with climate change? The conservation tems, but nevertheless the abundances of marine animals and
and restoration strategies discussed in previous sections habitats have been shrinking at an alarming rate. Among
have in the past shown their potential to protect or enhance other measures, reductions in hunting pressure, the manage-
biodiversity. Will they be enough as we move through the ment of fisheries (figure 2f), along with habitat protection
twenty-first century? One controversial suggestion is the measures could allow a major rebuilding of marine life
use of geoengineering strategies to mitigate the effects of cli- within the 2050 horizon [110]. However, this requires on
mate change (see [99] and references cited). This climate the one hand a sustained commitment of financial resources