observing that the relationship between motor programmes within the inner space. Over time, given the common
and sensory inputs can be detected through a measure of metric of the internal space, these sensory representations
the distance between their projections in this inner space. In happen to get closer to the internal representation which gen-
particular, we propose that learning should be dependent erated the current policy. These are the sensory inputs and
on the amount of decrease in the distance or convergence motor programmes that will be assigned a higher amount
between representations in the common space (figure 1). of learning signal. The sensory inputs that are selected by
The assumption we make in using such a measure of conver- the learning signal and the policy that was executed are
gence is that when representations of sensory inputs in the then used as the current dataset for updating both sensory
internal space get closer to the representation of the policy that is and motor topologies. Thus all topologies, including those
in fact controlling the agent's behaviour, there is a higher chance representing motor programmes or policies, are updated so
that the current policy is in fact causally responsible for those sen- that they are more aligned in the region where represen-
sory inputs. In other words, a candidate motor-sensory tations converged. In sum. the same learning process
contingency or action effect is detected. Granted this, the con- guides the development of all topologies, using the fact that
vergence measure can be used as a learning signal for the an initial proximity between two representations within
development of topological mappings. In particular, this initially randomly mapped internal spaces bootstraps the

signal can be used as a filter to select for learning only learning of both mappings.


Updates in the alignment of sensory and motor topolo- the manifold binds information on the same event in several | 6 |

gies thus correspond to the discovery and encoding in the sensory and motor modalities). We implemented this main

common representational space of motor-sensory or action- feature by using an algorithm that allows us to learn a topo- 3
effect contingencies. Indeed such an emerging representation logical map from a stream of multidimensional input data in z