them can be modelled in advance with what have been
called Terraforming motifs [141] and, in a superior scale, eco-
logical hypercycles [94]. These concepts and their underlying
conceptual frames are beyond the scope of this article, but
they are the necessary theoretical counterparts for making
large-scale SynBio-based bioremediation a viable scheme.


devoid of bottlenecks [142]. Ecological theory is well aware of highly efficient DNA transfer platforms among members of

what has been called colonization resistance (CR), i.e. the diffi- a given microbiome and beyond. Such transfer events are
culty to stably incorporate a new member in well-balanced expected to occur in communities endowed with different
community. This was in fact one of the main obstacles for mechanisms not only of CR but also barriers to non-self
releasing biodegradative GEMs in the first wave of attempts DNA, e.g. restriction systems, CRISPR (or similar) devices,
in the late 1980s and early 1990s mentioned above [85]. Type VI secretion of toxins, etc. Designing highly promiscu-
There are many mechanisms involved in CR, but the final ous carriers of novel DNA thus asks for counteracting most
typical outcome is the quick loss of efficacy and eventual of these barriers for an efficient community-wide spreading
dying away of the engineered agent. A frequent setback is of the genes of interest (Gol). This is not out of reach, as
that the transient advantage of the engineered strain can increasing knowledge of each such mechanism enables possi-
result in its overgrowth which in turn creates a niche for bilities for overcoming them for the sake of increasing
predatory protists [143,144]. conjugation rates. Once a new DNA sequence enters a = =
Although SynBio approaches enable counteracting some target host, it may remain as an extrachromosomal replicon = >
of the issues implicated (in particular genetic stability), CR (which may then continue its conjugation course through __
still remains a major obstacle for the implementation of the other members of the microbiome) or integrate in the =
strategies discussed above, unless there is a special situation genome through either recombination or transposition — 5!