can be considered ‘a system within a system’ in the sense [10]. The division of labour coalesces around the focal point
that it models the agricultural system in its structure and of cultivation and by extension its surplus, thereby forming a
dynamic—it is expansionary, characterized by profound powerful feedback dynamic between it, cultivation and popu-
material interdependence, and it is a system that brings the lation growth. This is the basic (and universal) architecture of
duality between humans and the more-than-human world to the agricultural system that gives the system integrity and
its apogee. The capitalist system is at once removed from the assures its reproduction [6]'°. Agricultural species become a
Earth, functioning in a self-referential manner (think of the cir- materially integrated whole and individual autonomy in
cular flow of income and spending), and at the same time a material life is diminished, if not eliminated altogether. Indi-
profoundly material system [10]°. Clearly this is a dangerous vidual survival is centred on engaging in the collective
variant of the agricultural system on an Earth that is limited. agricultural enterprise.
I would have been inclined to leave the agricultural revolu- The exploration of the unique expression of sociality
tion to the framework of culture had it not been for one simple and cooperation found in human agriculture has not been
fact: humans are not the only species to practise agriculture. expansively entertained by evolutionary biologists except
The cross-species exploration of agriculture took me to social insofar as it is subsumed under the evolution of culture, the
insects, specifically many species of ants and termites that important evolutionary transition to “Generally evolutionary
practise agriculture [13-16]’. Insects cultivators develop an biologists think of agriculture in humans as a cultural tran-
aptitude for collective material life around the cultivation of sition.”"" David Sloan Wilson says ‘the advent of
fungi. In H. sapiens that aptitude is expressed around the culti- agriculture enabled us to increase the scale of society by
vation of annual grains. Many insect species achieved the many orders of magnitude through a process of cultural mul-
status of superorganism, and humans achieved the capacity tilevel selection’ [9, p. 90]. But as a matter of significance in
for culture before the advent of agriculture, so a pre-existing light of evolutionary transitions, agriculture has not been

level of evolved sociality was a precondition for an agricultural considered noteworthy. Rather, it is a sidebar to the history

