
The patterns of G. aristate flower colour variation, soil moisture ==

(d) Evidence for adaptation to local habitat and plant— and pollinator taxa in the Zoige alpine meadow landscape can =

pol linator commun ity conditions be interpreted as consistent with a geographical mosaic of evol- s
Plants and their pollinators are engaged in a mutualism ution [45,46]. However, spatial variation in traits alone does not a]
where pollinators gain food resources in the form of pollen provide unequivocal support for the geographical theory of |<
and nectar and in the process plants efficiently outbreed by coevolution [47,48]. In particularly we lack phenotypic data = %
pollinators vectoring their gametes [41]. Interestingly, seed for insect taxa and are thus unable to distinguish hot and cold S
set was highest in the endemic habitat of each colormorph spots and coevolutionary mosaics. Although our transplant x
(electronic supplementary material, figure S12). This is experiment did suggest trait mismatch [46,49,50], we further
despite the fact that some plant traits preferred by pollinators lack genetic information for trait remixing (gene flow, genetic S
(such as high pollen number) might be higher in a trans- drift and population dynamics). Future research can help deter- ~~
planted population: for example, the pink populations mine to what degree this system is an example of the
transplanted to intermediate habitat produced higher pollen geographical theory of coevolution.
number than in their native habitat, but attracted fewer bum- Overall, our studies provide evidence that variation in soil
blebees and had lower seed set. In wet habitats, white moisture can influence plant traits and plant—pollinator inter-
flowering plants attracted only flies and exhibited equivalent actions in G. aristata. How changes in local rainfall conditions
visitation as blue/pink plants, which attracted bumblebees. influence other plant species, the species richness and abun-
While bumblebees should carry and transfer more pollen dance in native pollinators, and the surrounding plant
[42], white flowering plants still had higher rates of seed community remains to be determined. Thus, these studies lay
set. Thus, these plant populations seem to have adapted to the groundwork for multiple avenues of exploration of impacts
their habitats, including soil conditions, plant communities of variations in soil moisture on plant and insect communities.
