retinal retinal
projection projection Ap, P,

Figure 3. Visual direction and optic flow. (a) Retinal location provides information about the visual angle of points relative to the fixated point which are readily
described in a polar coordinate frame (retinal eccentricity, op, and meridional angle, Opq). If a camera/eye only rotates about its optic centre, these polar angles are
the only sensible way to describe the relative visual direction of objects in the scene, because they form a coordinate frame that is independent of the direction the
eye is looking (i.e. independent of the fixated point). (b) When the camera/eye translates (or, equivalently for binocular vision, going from the left to the right eye)
there are changes in these angles (change retinal eccentricity, App, and change in meridional angle, A@pg). Thus, the 2D coordinates of optic flow and binocular
disparity are derived from the natural coordinate system (perhaps the only logical coordinate system) used for defining visual direction in a freely rotating camera/
eye. (Reproduced from [36] with permission from Elsevier.). (Online version in colour.)

this case relative visual direction) is stored in a way that is appro- description may sound radical, it need not be so different in
priate for the action that might depend on it (in this case a practice from a reconstruction-based representation. In fact,
saccade) but without the necessity for consistency checks. the psychophysical predictions of the two hypotheses are
Distinguishing near from far objects using simple heuris- often very similar, so carefully designed experiments are
tics, as described above, does not require a coordinate frame. required to tease the two apart [4,21,41,50].
Equally, many judgements about surface slant can be made One issue that we have not considered is how a policy
without using either an ego-centric or a world-based coordi- network for 3D vision might be learned. Most learning by
nate frame. The simplest slant to define (and hence to be the animals involves a compositional representation, i.e. we
origin of the slant metric) is one where the surface is orthog- learn a response to a broad category of stimuli and then, as
onal to the line of sight (because expansion or contraction we learn more, we divide that category up, refine our rep-
of the image is the only possible local flow, at least for resentation and respond in different ways to different
small translations of the camera/eye). Other slants can be sub-categories. Section 3(b) gave an example of this hierarch-
measured relative to this baseline [42,43]. ical learning of location that can be tailored to task demands.
Finally, to measure the depth relief of points, the sensible This is quite different from a Cartesian system, where the res-