include fishing economies, socialism, dowry and family genes such as strength and competitiveness.

structure [68,69]. Evidence that socio-cultural factors contrib- In humans, in addition to good genetic material, a woman’s
ute to gendered behaviour—through adherence to social preference may be based on a man’s resource-holding poten-
norms and gender stereotypes conformance—is gaining tial, which indicates his ability to provide for the woman and
strength, although it remains unclear whether such effects her offspring [22,56,75]. Securing resource-holding and com-
can explain the existence of a difference between feminine mitted partners offers crucial benefits for a woman's life
and masculine traits or, rather, how strongly these traits get outcomes and her children’s [14]. Men’s social status is some-
to be expressed. Surprisingly, recent studies comparing times based on dominance, i.e. a superior ability to inflict
WEIRD (i.e. Western, educated, industrialized, rich and costs on others and withhold benefits critical to others’ fitness
democratic) societies to developing economies reveal that be- largely dependent on physical strength and capacity to instill
havioural gaps are actually more significant in those fear [76]. Male warriors and gang members would be an
countries characterized by a higher level of economic devel- example of this type of strategy, and, in fact, they have been
opment and gender egalitarianism. The hypothesis is that found to have a higher number of sexual partners [77,78].
when survival is less at stake, as in richer countries, and More often, though, power is obtained through prestige
women can aspire to positions and incomes similar to men, [74,79], ie. through natural and culturally acquired abilities
the expression of individual differences would be less costly (e.g. social intelligence or determination) that permit the
[70]. Differences are also reported among countries sharing accumulation of wealth, achievement of status over others in
similar levels of development but with different institutions economic enterprises and public organizations, or the posses-
and cultural practices. For example, Gneezy ef al. [42] find sion of valuable knowledge and specialized competence (e.g.
that women compete more than men among the matrilineal artists, doctors, athletes, etc.). History abounds with examples
and matrilocal Khasi in India (where men take on a large of the extraordinary reproductive success of men of wealth and
role in childcare), while men are more competitively inclined power like Julius Caesar, who kept hundreds of wives for

than women among the patriarchal Maasai in Tanzania. reproduction purposes, or Chinese emperors who kept royal