There have been simulations showing that grid-like pattern not the case. Recent findings in reinforcement learning [53]
of spatial responses can emerge in networks, e.g. using as have shown that it is possible for an agent to generate an
input the translational and rotational velocity of the agent (pro- image (and hence point to an object) from a novel location

prioceptive signals). Banino et al. [12] showed this and in a novel room if the agent is given only one or two ‘seed’


images of the room from a quite different vantage point (as at least at a superficial level. However, as we have explored

was true for the participant in our experiment). This demon- in §2, there are severe problems when it comes to specifying
stration is important because it shows how tasks that seem as the details of a neural mechanism. The argument is turned on
if they must require the brain to use a 3D representation, its head when it comes to a policy network which is, in
in fact do not. Building a latent representation through essence, a long list of reflexes. There is little doubt that this
many previous experiences, and being able to generalize in is something the brain can store. A disadvantage is that it is
appropriate ways, allows remarkable performance without much more difficult to imagine how this could be the basis
involving any 3D geometry. of our perception of a 3D world (or, indeed, smells, sounds,

Clearly, the examples I have considered in this paper are colour, anguish). But, neuroscientists can be prone to Philoso-
very simple (such as making a saccade from one object to phers’ Syndrome: ‘mistaking a failure of the imagination
another or moving the head), whereas humans engage in for an insight into necessity’ [55]. The speculations in this
tasks that have many levels of complexity, including naviga- paper will, I hope, stimulate this process of imagination.
tional tasks. One possible area of speculation is about how They point out how a whole range of judgements that we
motivational input (here, g) could contribute to the hierarch- tend to think of as involving scene reconstruction can,
ical organization of complex tasks, including ‘chunking’ [54], instead, be described in terms of a changing image: the
