
(a) Study populations and cultural background shooting poisoned blowpipe darts at arboreal vame than did s

(i) Batek women. Men usually hunted in groups of two or three for 8

The Batek are one of 18 officially recognized groups of Orang safety (from predators or getting lost) and cooperation in finding x

Asli (Malay for ‘Original People’), the indigenous minorities of and sneaking up on animals [34]. Group hunting also served as ~
Peninsular Malaysia. Before about 1980, roughly 800 Batek an important training opportunity for young male apprentices.
were the only permanent residents of a vast area of primary low- Hunters did not take their children with them because the
land tropical rainforest in the upper Lebir River watershed of noise made by the children would scare away the game. Digging
Kelantan state and in the northern tributaries of the Tembeling tubers, on the other hand, could be done by large, noisy
River in the adjacent state of Pahang. Our data stem from groups—in fact, the noisier, the safer—so groups of women
research by K.M.E. and K.L.E. in 1975-1976 focused on the econ- often worked together with infants and young children in tow.
omy and gender relations of Batek people living along the upper Men sometimes also dug tubers, even when out on hunting
Lebir River and its tributaries [27]. trips. Both men and women dug up small burrowing animals,

In 1975-1976, the upper Lebir Batek were living by a combi- such as bamboo rats, and chopped nesting animals, such as
nation of hunting-and-gathering and trading forest products— bats, out of holes in trees using machetes. Both men and
mainly rattan—to Malay traders (greater than 60% of total cal- women fished with wooden poles and traded hooks and lines,
ories consumed at the time were from wild foods). The while men did most of the spear fishing, net fishing and fishing
resources the Batek depended upon for survival—such as wild with traps. Both men and women also participated in collecting
yams, monkeys, squirrels, fish and turtles—were widely dis- firewood and water, processing foods and cooking. Women
persed, and some—including wild fruits, nuts and honey— tended to do most of the weaving of pandanus leaves into sleep-
were seasonal. Having limited means for preserving and storing ing mats and carrying baskets, while some men made open-work