disparity
Figure 5. Binocular geometry modified for an animal, such as a human, with mobile eyes. @,, @, represent retinal location relative to the fovea. The symbol @
tepresents the fixation point. V is the vergence angle. The shaded region again indicates the binocular overlap, but now points nearer and further than the geo-
metrical horopter are shaded in different colours. Note that to keep the sign convention the same as in figure 1, positive retinal disparities are defined to be nearer
than the fixation point and negative those further away. This is opposite to many definitions in the literature.

figure 6a. The disparity sensor windows are not uniform, as of disparity in primary visual cortex (V1) undergoes exten-
sketched in figure 1b, but are smaller and more numerous sive subsequent processing in further brain areas [46,48].
closer to fixation and become larger and sparser further Our perception of depth is believed to reflect activity at the
away, making our depth perception less precise there end of this process, perhaps in inferotemporal cortex [62].
[46,85-87]. The windows are also now drawn as ellipses, to The processing seems to reduce the responses to false
indicate that the sensors are more narrowly tuned to disparity matches (image-patches which are superficially similar but
than to direction [55,88]. do not in fact correspond to the same point in space), contains

specialized mechanisms for depth discontinuities, slant and
curvature, and presumably also identifies monocular occlu-

(f) Additional processing required for correspondence sions [89-94]. Similarly it seems clear that something like
For accurate stereo correspondence as in human cyclopean the global interactions discussed above do occur, but not
stereopsis, the initial combination of left and right images exclusively within V1 itself [95]. For example, repeating pat-
via local disparity sensors is just the beginning. We have terns like sinusoidal gratings offer exactly the same local
already discussed the need for global mechanisms matches at disparities which are integer multiples of their
(figure 4c). Figure 7 shows the four main processing steps spatial period 4 (figure 8). The response of V1 neurons
widely recognized in current machine stereo algorithms depends only on the local stimulus within the receptive
