
curvature, etc.) are not quales or ‘phenomenological’, since phenomenological impressions: object solidity, object


Figure 1. Left: a single picture of a 3D scene. Right: a stereoscopic anaglyph image of the same scene. This image should be viewed with red and blue/cyan tinted
stereoscopic glasses (red on left, blue/cyan on right). Original images courtesy of Adrian Ston. Copyright © 2011 Adrian Ston.

tangibility (the feeling one can touch things), palpable nega- (pictorial depth cues and motion parallax) depth cues (see
tive space between objects and an overall sense of realness [8,29]). The compelling depth impression obtained in real
[11,13,14,16-18]. This is the impression that is typically associ- scenes or stereoscopic images (stereopsis)—but not pictures—
ated with the term stereopsis. Similarly, while both monocular is then attributed to the claim that only the primary depth
and binocular viewing of real scenes yields a similar percep- cues can lead to a perceptual experience of depth (e.g. [17,30]).
tion of 3D object shape and layout, the impression of depth But this view is challenged by the fact that a compelling
separation under binocular viewing is more compelling impression of depth similar to binocular stereopsis can be
[19]. The compelling impression of depth separation in real obtained where none of the so-called primary cues (vergence,
scenes under binocular viewing, however, diminishes rapidly accommodation, disparity), nor motion parallax, is consistent
for farther viewing distances even for very large magnitudes with the perceived 3D scene; and where the only cues specifying
of depth separation [20-22]. This can be observed by judging depth are ‘secondary’ or pictorial, specifically under synoptic”
the difference in depth impression between one-eye and two- or monocular-aperture® viewing of single pictures [11-14,32,33].
eye viewing of a real scene. A large difference in depth A related argument distinguishing pictorial and real depth
impression is evident in near space, but the difference— perception claims that depth perception in real or stereoscopic
even for very large inter-object distances—reduces rapidly scenes is the perception of ‘quantitative’ depth, while pictorial
with viewing distance [18]. Picture viewing provides an depth is simply a ‘qualitative’ cognitive inference based on pic-
additional complication in that the observer has a phenomen- torial cues, that might, for example, be based on learning from
ology where they simultaneously perceive both a virtual prior perceptual experience of depth from more direct percep-