which amplifies the response to distal depth changes (figure 2e, arate studies [71,72] and indeed found that the perceptual
equations (7) and (8)). Most importantly, when strengths are match was not veridical as predicted by the MLE model. As
expressed in terms of JNDs (figure 2f, equations (9) and (10)) can be seen in figure 8 (top), simulated depth from disparity
the relationship between the predicted JND of the combined- (22) producing a perceptual depth match is much smaller than
cue stimulus and the JNDs of the single-cue stimuli is identical the simulated depth from motion (z;). However, as can be
to the prediction of the MLE model (figure 2c, equation (5))’. seen in figure 8 (bottom), the simulated depth from motion
In summary, the Vector Sum model can predict previous scaled by the JND ratio (such that z2 = (JND2/JND;)z1) accu-
results from depth-discrimination experiments used to confirm rately predicts the empirical data and therefore confirms the
the predictions of the MLE model. However, the Vector Sum predictions of the Vector Sum model.
model can also predict the outcomes of untested experimental On a final note, these results not only reject the assumption
conditions where the cues displayed in the standard and com- of the MLE model that 3D perception is accurate, but also pro-
parison stimuli are different. In these newly tested conditions vide further converging evidence that JNDs do not measure the
the predictions of the MLE model are falsified. From these results s.d. of single-cue outputs. In fact, according to the MLE theory,
we can conclude that variability of depth judgements measured the PSEs estimated in a matching task and the JNDs resulting
in depth-discrimination tasks does not reflect the output varia- from discrimination tasks should be completely unrelated par-
bility of 3D processing modules, as predicted by the MLE ameters. This is because the PSEs are estimates of the means
model. Instead, as predicted by the Vector Sum model, the of the likelihood functions associated with each cue (which
JND is influenced by task-related noise and the cue strength. should correspond to the ground truth) and the JNDs are esti-

mates of the s.d. of these likelihood functions. By contrast, for
the Vector Sum model, both PSEs and JNDs are univocally

4. Are 3D estimates from single-cues accurate? determined by the cue strength. The results shown in figure 8

Evidence from a depth-matching experiment clearly confirm this second interpretation of JNDs.