with the distance of the fixation plane. Instead, the fixation of an environment where disparity falls-off with distance’y’.

plane is experienced at a single fixed ‘phenomenal distance’, See also [12, pp. 17-22].

no matter what its physical distance is ([41, pp. 134-6], [89,90]). It’s important to emphasize at the outset that this is a
Note that this single fixed ‘phenomenal distance’ is not purely cognitive mechanism. What do I mean by this? View
Gogel & Tietz’s [91] ‘specific distance tendency’, the assump- figure 14 with 3D glasses. With one eye closed, it looks like a
tion that, in the absence of distance cues, objects default to a normal street scene. With both eyes open, it looks miniature.
physical distance of 2-3 m. I find no evidence for this in my But what is the difference in our visual experience between
experimental work (see the raw data of [11], fig. 5). these two conditions? Clearly, with both eyes open, the
Instead, this single fixed ‘phenomenal distance’ corre- scene has accentuated stereo depth. But fixate on an object
sponds to all potential physical distances. There’s an and open and close one eye. Does the object appear to move
intuitive appeal to this account [89]. The fact that we see a towards you when you open both eyes? No. Does the object
movie screen at a single fixed phenomenal distance, and yet appear to reduce in retinal size when you open both eyes?
a movie can transition from a wide-panning shot to a close- No. So there is no sense in which stereo vision is changing
up without being jarring, suggests that attributing different your visual experience of size and distance. And yet the
scales to a single fixed phenomenal distance is something scene seems miniature. But all this can be, then, is merely a
that comes naturally for humans. cognitive association between accentuated stereo depth and

reduced size.
Indeed, this insight almost seems inevitable if, like me, you

(b) Physical size/distance from stereo is merely seek to ground visual scale in horizontal disparities, since

we horizontal disparities are (rightly) thought to only affect the