2000 autistic participants demonstrating gaze atypicalities tightly controlled reduce the possibility of noise drowning =
for individuals from both Eastern and Western cultures [9]. out the signal. However, if we ignore evidence from real
However, while many of the difficulties experienced by world paradigms when building our theoretical models, =
autistic individuals are social in nature, much previous these models will inevitably be incomplete. A range of other
research in this area has been conducted in laboratory reviews have explored this point further in neurotypical indi-
environments lacking the presence of a social partner. This viduals, e.g. Risko et al. [14] and Gobel et al. [15]. The processof  &
raises the very real concern that results found in these studies conducting research that involves a genuine social presence
may not extrapolate to everyday behaviour [10-12]. This is an within paradigms has been termed ‘breaking the fourth =
important issue, as laboratory-based studies often inform the- wall’, Risko et al. [16]. The ‘fourth wall’ is often experienced 3
ories and interventions developed with a view to assisting in theatre settings whereby those present experience an illu-
people with a diagnosis on the autism spectrum. Such inter- sory barrier between the actors and the audience. This
ventions have been found to be variable in their success and allows the audience to believe that the stage is a world apart
have relatively small effects [13] hence there is a clear need from theirs and allows the actors to overlook the fact that
to do better in order to reach the goal of research being others are observing them. As will be demonstrated later in
genuinely beneficial to autistic people. this review article, when stimuli in experimental paradigms

The aim of this review is to consider the nature and can ‘look back’ at the participant, i.e. the stimulus has the
impact of a range of socially relevant factors. These include potential to observe or judge, or are even simply perceived
‘social agency’, i.e. actions or potential for actions that are as having the potential to, commonly observed phenomena
derived from a social being. Further, we will consider how and effects can be turned on their head. For example, robustly
the sense of being present with another being that possesses observed effects such as the gaze cueing effect, or preferential
social agency or that represents a social entity, i.e. ‘social attendance to eyes in neurotypical individuals, can signifi-
presence’, affects another person’s attention, information pro- cantly alter when participants believe a stimulus represents a
cessing and social interaction behaviour. These factors will real social partner [17,18]. This has led to fundamentally
be considered in relation to both autistic and non-autistic new insights and directions for research. It is therefore vital