been widely established as a measure of stress [47,59,61], affiliation goal, mimicry of face-touching was still occurring
the affiliative outcomes of face-touching mimicry have been during video calls [61]. Numerous studies also detected the
replicated multiple times in the literature [65,99]. It is possible presence of mimicry with virtual agents where the spatial
that mixing the mimicry of behaviours with different valence proximity is not in place [68,73,89]. These results suggest
might have contributed to the present results. Future studies that mimicry may arise when the individuals are spatially
might consider testing different behaviours in separate close. Future research should consider adding a critical con-
experiments to disentangle their effect on trust, perhaps by dition in which participants are tested in spatially separated
employing a between-subject design to avoid unwanted settings, perhaps comparing it to when they are in the same
interaction effects between behaviours. Concerns with respect room. Nonetheless, the fact that mimicry is happening via a
to our experimental design can also be raised about yawning. screen—which is a recent way of communicating in evol-
Participants and confederates were instructed to look into utionary terms—is still valuable information. A further
each other eyes for a block of 3 min, which is a considerable methodological issue is that the confederates performed
amount of time to look someone in the eye. In fact, some par- more behaviours than they should have. As such, the tra-
ticipants reported a conscious suppression of the urge to ditional method of counting mimicry, using pre-defined
express the behaviours, yawning in particular. The majority epochs mainly implemented with computer tasks, did not

of them reported that they felt uncomfortable with blatantly fit our requirements. That is, it does not consider the presence


of another human being that mimics the participants’ back.
Future studies should consider more ecologically friendly set-
tings that do not denaturalize the back-and-forth flow of
behaviours, which ultimately is the heart of human social
interaction. Furthermore, the present study is also limited
by its relatively small sample size and recruitment procedure.