game-theoretic approach to their study. We note that several a weapon of rearguard action, especially in Goniozus. Discrete
reviews published around a decade ago captured the key strategies are exemplified by Mesterton-Gibbons et al. [28],
material in some detail [17-19], and we thus provide here which explores whether size advantage can sustain a maternal
only a brief summary, highlighting recent studies. preference to use a more deadly host species, again, especially

The adults of most species of parasitoid wasps are not in a parasitoid (members of the scelionid genus Trissolcus). We = =
known to engage in dyadic contests over resources, and the focus on these examples because all three illustrate both the >
initial surge of contest research proceeded for several decades expansiveness of contest theory within behavioural ecology = __
with little reference to parasitoids. During the same period, and the extent to which game theory has proved productive = =
parasitoids were proving to be among the key organisms in in the study of parasitoid behaviour. For examples of the — 5!
the expansion of sex ratio theory and in many other areas other strategies, see Mesterton-Gibbons [16]. a
of behavioural and ecological research [6,7,20]. Around 25 Although game-theoretic models can be tailored to the =
years ago, researchers started to take more note of the fact biological details of a given species [29,30], they are typically  &
that some species of parasitoids do engage in direct contests most useful as general models that allow us to test the logic of iat
over resources. The framework developed from Maynard a verbal argument rigorously. In that context, it need not 3
Smith and Price’s impetus was readily adopted to structure matter that an ESS fails to be directly observable (for =~
the subsequent empirical research. The list of parasitoid example, if an animal is being aggressive, is it using a strat- =
species exhibiting contest behaviour grew as new interest in egy of obligate aggression, or is its aggression conditional S
this area of their life histories was generated. Research on on other, unmeasured, factors?). Does it matter in the context
parasitoid contests has now provided some of the more com- of testing observed behaviour? The answer is, fortunately,
prehensive sets of studies (both empirical and theoretical) of much less than might appear, simply because the probabil-
the factors that determine the durations, outcomes and conse- ities of outcomes associated with an ESS can be compared
quences of animal contests and has generated insights into with observed frequencies. For example, Mesterton-Gibbons
other areas of parasitoid life histories (including clutch size et al. [27] calculate the probability of volatile chemical release
and sex ratio decisions) that can be affected by contest behav- at the ESS as a function of their model parameters and are