female), the system as a whole can shift to a state where more needed, combined with male attention when required (i.e.
males become discriminating, and therefore females are left close to ovulation). But if the D strategy is not yet prevalent
‘in peace’ when they indicate unreceptivity by not signalling. among males, signalling does not achieve this goal. It is there-
Whether the evolutionary equilibrium features all or only fore unclear why signalling should start spreading from rare
some males obeying the signal, it is important to explain how among females. In the absence of female signallers, D males
signal-obeying males can increase in frequency. An important do not mate and gain no paternity, so the coevolution
parameter in our model is z, modulating the total mating rate towards the S-D equilibrium does not start at all. Under
that a male can achieve. If males can mate in quick succession most realistic parameter settings (where males are capable
with many females (low 2), it is difficult to evolve any dis- of mating in quick succession), the required frequency of D,
crimination. If replenishment of sperm is so quick that before S females can start benefitting from their attempt to
indiscriminating males never suffer in sperm competition manage male attention, is quite high. The logic here reflects

situations, then there are problems in the spread of the fact that opportunity costs paid by males are low in this


situation (which favours indiscriminate behaviour), and received, and matings therefore correlated negatively with

when most males do not discriminate, females cannot benefit female fitness except for females that remain unmated (the
from a ‘quiet’ period before they start signalling. Simul- risk of which is non-trivial at low male ability to mate multi-
taneously, there needs to be a substantial frequency of S ply, ie. high value of 7). A worthwhile avenue for future work
females before D males can elevate their fitness above d would be to separate the negative effects of harassment from
males. This, too, is logical: without S females in their signal- the (potentially positive [50]) effects of multiple mating. One
ling state, D males cannot mate at all, as they pay no attention might envisage a temporal structure where matings far away
to non-signallers. from ovulation are harmful to female fitness, while this turns
