as model parameters are varied. In this case, we show these transmit vertically) but can become overt at a later stage. S
CSS points against a colourmap of the period of the underlying They found that when the amplitude of seasonality is small
cycles that are present. In both cases, it is notable that the trend there is no selection for covert infections, but once a threshold
of the CSS is different depending on whether the underlying is passed a degree of covert infection will be selected for. This
population dynamics are cycles (lighter colours) or equilibria is because covertly infected hosts survive longer than those
(dark-blue). For low levels of competition the dynamics are overtly infected (as they do not suffer from virulence), creat-
cycles, and the CSS transmission rate rapidly drops as compe- ing a reservoir of infection that better copes with the drops in
tition increases, but once it moves to a region of equilibria the population densities during a cycle. Donnelly et al. [53]
CSS transmission gradually increases. This effect is mirrored explored a more classic transmission—-virulence trade-off
by varying the rate of parasite production; for low production with seasonally forced host reproduction. Under standard
levels the dynamics are equilibria and there is a slight down- assumptions the parasite fitness could be found analytically
ward trend, but as production increases cycles emerge and (since the average host density over one period is constant),
the CSS transmission increases. Why do we see these patterns? and they found that parasite fitness was in fact unaffected
Focusing on competition, in the equilibrium region, increasing by the amplitude or period of the seasonal forcing. However,
competition leads to higher transmission (lower resistance). if virulence is density-dependent then parasite fitness
Similarly to the high competition case in figure 3a, selection depends on the average total population density, which is
to avoid infection is greatest at low competition when the not constant over a period. Numerically calculating the aver-
infected and parasite densities are highest, because the force age densities and substituting into the fitness, they found
of infection is never too high. However, when cycles emerge, parasites were selected to evolve higher virulence and infec-
the infected and parasite densities increase dramatically, tivity at higher amplitudes of seasonality as increased
especially at their maximum value on a cycle. This means amplitude with density-dependent virulence leads to lower
that hosts are now facing extremely high probability of infec- susceptible densities, requiring greater exploitation by the
tion, and there becomes limited benefit to evolving costly parasite to survive. Hite & Cressler [57] also examined a clas-
resistance. These plots highlight how the existence of popu- sic transmisison-virulence trade-off, but where host growth
lation cycles creates a fundamental, qualitative change to the depends directly on resources, with fluctuations emerging