they expected Watson-Crick pairing rules to be retained, but large amounts of phenotypic space. This means that one can S
with enhanced stability of the duplex to reflect less loss of convert an enzyme that, for example, catalyses the addition of 8
conformational entropy once it forms. water to fumarate to give malate, to an enzyme that catalyses

My laboratory is now in its third decade [12] of work the addition of ammonia to fumarate to give aspartate, with
seeking to understand these and other features of this fasci- relatively few amino acid replacements. This allows the evol-
nating and important molecular system. Here, we started ution of protein phenotype to be speedy.
by using organic synthesis to answer ‘What if?’ and ‘Why However, a rugged phenotype-sequence landscape is not
not?’ questions. As a result of this work, we have come to desirable for an informational molecule, especially if the pheno-
understandings of these peculiarities and much more. As it type is delivered by a molecular system that is translated from the
turns out, these peculiarities are all important for the func- information it contains. Here, changing information content must
tioning of this molecular system as the informational part not disrupt the molecular processes by which replication occurs.
of an evolvable system. Some of the peculiarities of DNA and RNA are in fact

For example, reducing flexibility of the single-strands by necessities if this behaviour in an informational molecule is
making DNA entirely out of locked sugar analogues does to be achieved.

indeed improve affinity. However, such DNA analogues
hybridize only slowly to their complementary strands [13].

Evidently, flexibility is important in the dynamic behaviour 3. The aperiodic crystal structure
required to go from two single strands to one duplex. A decade before Watson and Crick proposed the double heli-

Further, hydrogen bonds are critical to achieving direc- cal structure for DNA, Erwin Schrédinger explained why an
tionality in a nucleobase pair. In particular, they prevent informational genetic molecule must have certain general