in which the parasite increases the transmission probability to shoals will be when the proportion of less diving gambusia
its final host (which is often a bird predator [48]). Neverthe- individuals increases.
less, a reduced responsiveness to social information in Further, it is an intriguing question as to whether gambu-
gambusia cannot fully explain why this species per se dived sia gain antipredator protection from sulphur molly waves
less in response to an approaching predator, especially even when they do not participate themselves. It is conceiva-
given that gambusia spend so much time at the surface. ble that the waves produced by mollies redirect the attention
We thus postulate two non-mutually exclusive explanations: away from the gambusia to the moving wavefront. This is
First, we conducted dive experiments at low oxygen concen- likely because the wavefront is much more conspicuous
trations typical of the conditions in the field when frequent than individual fish. Another possibility is that the white
waving behaviour is seen in fish shoals. It thus remains poss- wavefront creates such a strong contrast with the surround-
ible that gambusia are more oxygen-limited than mollies and ing water that it reduces the ability of bird predators to
therefore require higher oxygen levels for more frequent detect fish that remain at the surface in the short intervals
dives. This could be connected to the fact that sulphur mollies between waves [55]. Eye-tracking in birds [56,57] would pro-
have been reported to have better adaptations to the toxic sul- vide an exciting possibility to find out where their attention
fidic environment than gambusia [34,35]. Second, gambusia focuses and thereby could give insights into the selective
might be less preferred by predators, because of their smaller processes at play.

body size or by being harder to detect owing to their more

. : : : Ethics. Experiments reported in this study were carried out in accord-
cryptic coloration. As a result, they might face a lower ris

ance with the recommendations of ‘Guidelines for the treatment

of predation, which eventually led to the observed decrease of animals in behavioral research and teaching’ [58] and under the