dived less deep when confronted with the predator stimulus species composition and waving performance (in terms of = &
in a_heterospecific context, especially when gambusia wave number but also speed and size) and the consequences S
remained at the surface. First of all we can speculate that for antipredator effects provide exciting directional hypoth- — ~
this is indicative of a species-specific discrepancy in the use eses for future fieldwork in the area of collective behaviour S
of social information, with sulphur mollies being more sus- and its evolution. For example, it is unclear whether sulphur S
ceptible to the actions of their neighbours than gambusia. mollies might discriminate against gambusia shoal members,
Differential responses to avian predation have also been possibly by aggregating in stream areas with higher flow
reported in three-spined sticklebacks, Gasterosteus aculeatus rates in which gambusia might not be able to swim for
[46], where individuals that were parasitized by Schistocepha- long given their lower average maximal sustainable swim-
lus showed a greatly reduced or no response to simulated ming speeds (see for example studies on guppies where
heron attacks. Unparasitized sticklebacks dived less when females prefer deeper areas with stronger flow rates so that
in the presence of parasitized fish, but parasitized individuals the harassing smaller males cannot follow [54]). Consistent
were not influenced by unparasitized ones [46] resulting in with this assumption is the fact that shoals with higher pro-
potential consequences for the escape behaviour of fish portions of sulphur mollies exhibit stronger polarization of
shoals [47]. In Schistocephalus-infected sticklebacks and other individuals, which indicates that fish are swimming in stron-
fishes carrying parasites with vertical transmission, a reduced ger currents. Future studies should further aim at elucidating
or absent response to predators has been interpreted as a way how robust the waving behaviour of the heterospecific fish
in which the parasite increases the transmission probability to shoals will be when the proportion of less diving gambusia
its final host (which is often a bird predator [48]). Neverthe- individuals increases.
less, a reduced responsiveness to social information in Further, it is an intriguing question as to whether gambu-
gambusia cannot fully explain why this species per se dived sia gain antipredator protection from sulphur molly waves
less in response to an approaching predator, especially even when they do not participate themselves. It is conceiva-
given that gambusia spend so much time at the surface. ble that the waves produced by mollies redirect the attention
We thus postulate two non-mutually exclusive explanations: away from the gambusia to the moving wavefront. This is
First, we conducted dive experiments at low oxygen concen- likely because the wavefront is much more conspicuous