isms suggests how historical contingency and_ priority In both experiments, we found that reducing microbial — 5!
effects (the order of microbial colonization) influence micro- richness and diversity had relatively few detrimental effects a
biome assembly, immune development, and __ health on tadpole body condition, successful development through =
outcomes later in life. In germ-free mice, for example, the metamorphosis during the larval period, and survival to = &
sequence of colonization by gut bacteria impacts the the adult life stage. While there were some differences
microbial community assembly, suggesting that variation in among groups, there were few consistencies across these S
timing of exposure to microbiota may determine early experimental parameters that would suggest considerable ~~
microbial colonization events [11,63]. However, to date we negative effects of antimicrobial treatments. For example, in S
have a limited number of model organisms to use for inves- Experiment 2, Group 5: no AMX had higher body condition 8
tigating questions concerning microbial exposure in early relative to the antimicrobial treatment groups post-metamor-
developmental windows [12]. phosis. However, we noted that body condition of the frogs in
In this study, we used two experimental approaches to these groups consistently improved over the course of the
reduce the richness of the microbiome in developing larvae experiment (figure 5b). In fact, body condition improved
of the model amphibian, the African clawed frog (Xenopus equally among groups such that there were no differences
laevis). We found that our experimental manipulations in the change in body condition from the first timepoint to
using antimicrobial treatments (two different antimicrobial the last time point (electronic supplementary material,
cocktails), sterile environments (i.e. autoclaved water), and figure S3), irrespective of Bd infection. These findings are par-
sterile, gamma-irradiated food successfully reduced the rich- ticularly encouraging for future research; since reduced body
ness of the microbiome in tadpoles with relatively few condition and overall health can be conflating factors in gno-
negative effects on body condition. We found that, overall, tobiology [65], developing a model organism that allows for
measures of development during the larval period, survival microbiome manipulation with relatively few deleterious
to metamorphosis, and body condition at the tadpole stage effects will be highly useful for a wide range of investigations.
were comparable across all groups in both experiments. In We predicted that a significant reduction in microbiome
addition, while body condition (e.g. body size) was lower richness and diversity during development would alter sus-
following antibiotic treatment in post-metamorphic frogs, ceptibility to chytridiomycosis [6,66]. Our results did not