A special feature of foam nests is that they are constructed While the critical roles that existing nesting behaviours play
from a product made from the parents’ own bodies. Frogs are clear, the evolutionary origins of these behaviours are
are not unique in this feature: many bee species produce not well understood. This question is often difficult to
their nests from wax; spiders use silk for nesting and prey cap- address because the forces that drive the elaboration and
ture; and some fishes and birds use secretions as ‘glue’ in their maintenance of parental care are probably distinct from
nests (reviewed in [3]), although, as far as I am aware, the only those that originally drove its evolution [1]. Anurans are
other vertebrate nest constructed entirely from bodily promising for this work because nest structure is relatively
secretions is the saliva nests of the edible-nest swiftlet (Aerodra- simple, flexible at immediate timescales, variable at evol-
mus fuciphagus) [112]. I note this feature here because it is rare utionary timescales and explicit hypotheses for the
among vertebrates but could be studied comparatively, across ecological and mechanistic origins of nesting can be tested.
independent evolutions of foam nesting in anurans and with Specifically, the tight connections between nesting, terrestrial
other taxa that include bodily secretions in their nests. For breeding, and water balance are an obvious starting point.
example, does the production of nest material from the body The fact that the fundamental selective pressure for water is
allow for the inclusion of specialized compounds that can clearly identified and the mechanisms underlying osmoregu-
act as a food source or as protection from pathogens? Can lation in amphibians are relatively well understood, provides
we identify ecological or physiological variables associated important starting points for understanding the evolutionary
with collection versus production of (some) nesting material? emergence and maintenance of nesting behaviour in this
Are patterns explained by energetic trade-offs? In addition, clade. The pressure to prevent desiccation of embryos
as evidenced by examples in anurans [84,85], the compounds drives parental physiology and behaviour, as well as modifi-
that animals produce for nest construction may prove to have cations to the structure of the eggs themselves (i.e. changes in
properties that can be capitalized on for direct use in medicine egg jelly) [19]. Nonetheless, species have ‘solved’ these

and bioinspired design. challenges in different ways, providing opportunities to ask

what ecological forces drive the evolution of burrowing