20,21], predation risk [22,23], light conditions [24], pH [20] The goals of our study were to examine nest-site
and temperature [25-31]. choice and its thermal consequences by characterizing nest
However, it has also become increasingly evident microhabitats—focusing on canopy cover at oviposition
that behavioural responses to local environmental change (sensu [52]) and its relationship to nest thermal conditions
could alter the evolutionary trajectory of physiological during the crucial organogenetic period of embryonic devel-
and morphological traits. The phenomenon in which regulat- opment—at both local and broad geographical scales and
ory behaviours (e.g. thermoregulation or nest-site choice) through time. Specifically, we addressed the following ques-
dampen selection and slow evolution by shielding organisms tions: (i) how do natural nests differ from other potential
from environmental variation is referred to as the Bogert nest sites in each study location? (ii) how do natural nests
effect [4,32,33]. Work on this matter has largely focused on differ among study locations across a wide geographical
the intraspecific evolutionary ecology of local populations of range? and (iii) do key hatchling traits (mass and carapace
short-lived organisms that vary in altitude (e.g. Anolis lizards length) vary predictably across latitudes in natural nests?
in [34] and Phrynosoma hernandesi in [35]). The extent to which Owing to the fact that the thermal reaction norms for embryos
the Bogert effect manifests across generational boundaries from these different locations (populations) are not explained
and in species with long lifespans that occupy large geo- by geography [44,47], we hypothesize that turtles from all
graphical ranges with minimal gene flow remains unknown. locations target the same narrow range of temperatures for
Theoretically, such taxa should be more prone to exhibiting their nests which we can quantify by measuring nest tempera-
phenotypic plasticity as an immediate response to selec- tures at different locations. We anticipate that turtles use
tion under rapidly changing conditions, given their long available microhabitat differently across locations to compen-
generation times [36,37]. sate for macroclimatic variation. For example, at higher
The painted turtle, Chrysemys picta, is notably conducive to latitudes, nesting behaviour may entail selecting the most
investigating adaptive responses to changing thermal environ- exposed, warmest sites in contrast with nests sites selected at
ments. First, painted turtles are geographically widespread lower latitudes [53,54]. Again, because developmental thermal
(inhabiting approx. 4.1 million km’; [38]) ranging from the reaction norms of offspring from these populations are not
Atlantic to Pacific Oceans in North America and from related to latitude [44,47], we do not expect a latitudinal pat-