
Denis couldn't agree more: Physiology article (fig. 9 of [7]). I am pleased that I resisted
‘You were not alone, Silvio. Alan Hodgkin was suffi- his advice. From a historical point of view, it is important
ciently concerned about it that he suggested I should leave that people should know that the evidence for other inward
one of the relevant diagrams out of my 1962 Journal of currents was always there. That makes it easier to understand



why the model worked so well, and reproduced all your cur- pacemaker cells, the so-called "funny’ current", inward and | 8 |

rent pulse experiments. Those modifications of the m activating at diastolic voltages [9]. Along with many other
equations enabled the model to do that. Of course, today consequences, this finding also led to a re-interpretation of S
we would not need to modify the activation equations in pacemaking in Purkinje fibres, which in fact turned the orig- z
the same way. The calcium, and sodium-—calcium exchange inal hypothesis upside-down [10,11]. How did you react to =
currents perform the relevant roles in generating the plateau these new developments?’ 3
of the action potential. And there are persistent sodium Silvio addressed his guest with an enigmatic smile, impossible =
currents too.’ to decipher if hinting to a little sarcasm, but answered with his S
Silvio had a question: typical gentle disposition: Ee}
‘Lam glad you explained that. But why do you think that “Yes, Ihave heard about your "funny" current, I have been =
everything had to become so complicated? Your 1960/62 reading some literature on the subject. It has given rise to 5
formulation worked so well.’ some discussion with my colleagues, especially with Mario =
Denis’ answer was swift: Vassalle. You see, even before I ran the 1951 experiments, a r=
‘It did, Silvio. Which is why in my subsequent work, I decrease of membrane conductance was very much expected __
took great care to map old and new models onto each for the diastolic depolarization. Do you remember the = =
other. That approach applied also to mapping the old Ik2 time course of conductance in the Hodgkin-Huxley model 5!