
genicity of these last three variants, Soh and colleagues (a) Expression and function of Nav1.5 in the

investigated their biophysical properties in CHO cells and gastrointestinal tract

observed a reduced peak current for Val223Gly as well as Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) and intestinal SMCs are essential
changes in gating properties for all three variants, underlining for gastrointestinal motility. Smooth muscle contractility is
their potential functional impact [134]. Hence, the (co-)occur- governed by excitability and changes in membrane potential,
rence of SCN5A mutations in these patients may have and as such is regulated by a wide variety of ion channels,
contributed to the development of cardiac arrhythmias and including sodium channels [146]. Of the latter, Nav1.5 is
potentially SUDEP. However, some of these patients were the predominant isoform in the gastrointestinal tract, with
also treated with anti-epileptic drugs, many of which are in functional expression of SCN5A/Nav1.5 having been demon-
fact sodium channel blockers, which may by themselves, or strated in rat and human jejunal and colon circular SMCs
in co-occurrence with SCNSA variants, decrease peak sodium [147-149]. While calcium is classically considered key for
current and increase the risk for arrhythmias [135,136], thereby SMC function, a role for sodium channels is increasingly recog-
providing an additional factor underlying and/or contributing nized [150]. Nav1.5 activation may impact on gastrointestinal
to SUDEP. motility by modulating electrical slow waves in ICC, and by

regulating calcium entry and subsequent contraction in SMC
[150,151]. Crucially, Nav1.5 in ICC is mechanosensitive: it is

(d) SCNS5A and other neurological disorders activated by shear stress, with stretch increasing slow wave
In addition to epilepsy, SCN5A and Nav1.5 have been impli- frequency in human ICC, while sodium current inhibition by
cated in other neurological disorders. The expression of lidocaine decreased slow wave frequency [151]. Moreover,
SCN5A/Nav1.5 was found to be downregulated in DRG ranolazine was found to decrease peak sodium current and