linked to measurable constraints (e.g. trait-based functiona’ based on the requirements for estimating (step 3) essential
responses to the environment) that interact to govern the biodiversity and ecosystem variables (EBVs; [70,71]), that S
dynamical state of the system. An example would be consu- can be shared easily across studies and used in multiple es
mer-resource systems of equations typically used to model workflows for subsequent modelling and comparison. EBV
ecological dynamics [61]. A process model can be fitted to workflows offer methodological standards for making obser-
time series data with and without potential causal drivers vations and providing them in usable open data forms [72].
to support detection and attribution [62]. When such para- The joint observation of drivers (e.g. land cover, climate vari-
metric dynamical models cannot be built, agent-based ables) that are hypothesized to be important for the
models may be used for causal inference [63]. When forma attribution step (step 5) with data that are downscaled to
causal models are not readily available, verbal or graphica the relevant scales of the focal organisms and assemblages
expressions of directed causal relationships are valuable, should also be made.

and in fact a necessary starting point in this framework.
We recommend strong hypothesis tests by comparing

alternative causal network models (fingerprints) to make the (¢) Step 3: estimation

strongest inference possible for attribution in step 4 below Estimation is the process of calculating a biodiversity metric
[44,53]. Knowing this, the collection of observations in step 2 from an incomplete sample (the observation or set
should be guided by the hypothesized causal dependence of observations), with the aim of reducing the influence of
between the drivers and biodiversity variables formalized by sampling bias and imperfect detection of species. There are
the graphical models used for attribution. multiple metrics used to capture different dimensions of bio-

diversity [70], which are associated with different biases and
other forms of uncertainty [73]. The accuracy and errors