The overall cAMP levels appear to be three times higher thus the loading of the SR, also affecting the calcium clock. In
in SAN than in ventricles, despite the concurrent higher turn, changes to supposedly pure calcium-related proteins,
activity of PDEs, and this is a result of constitutive AC such as ryanodine receptors or SERCA pumps, will change
activity, rather than B-AR hyperactivation [85]. The calcium- the cellular calcium transient. This will, in turn, affect the cal-
activated AC1 is a crucial source of cAMP in SAN cells, cium-dependent inactivation of L-type channels [113], and
whereas it contributes only relatively marginally to cAMP allosterically regulate NCX [114] and influence delayed potass-
production in the ventricles [23,111], which can explain the ium rectifier current Ix, [115], therefore also affecting the
elevated cAMP levels. AC1 is co-localized within caveolae membrane clock. The membrane and calcium clock are further
with proteins involved in the generation of cardiac rhythm, coupled via cAMP and CaMKII signalling, as discussed below.
including HCN channels underlying the funny current, rya- The existence of two clocks poses the question of whether
nodine receptors, and CaV channels underlying the L-type one is dominant over the other, and this is something that has
calcium current [111]. The calcium-activated nature of AC1 been debated in the literature [116]. Available evidence
leads to a self-sustaining feedforward loop, where high suggests that in fact both clocks are equally important,
cAMP activity activates and accelerates cellular calcium which is perhaps not surprising, given their tight coupling.
handling, which in turn stimulates cAMP formation by the For the membrane clock, e.g. the experiments by Fenske
AC1. This process can explain the sustained automaticity of et al. [117] demonstrate how making I; insensitive to cAMP
the SAN cells in response to B-adrenergic stimulation. stimulation leads to severe bradycardia and irregular heart
The rhythm generation in SAN cells is relatively complex rate in mice. With regards to the importance of the calcium
even without considering cAMP signalling. The contributors clock, experiments using the fast calcium buffer BAPTA
to the periodic depolarization are typically described as mem- have shown that reducing calcium concentration may
bers of two ‘clocks’ [85,112] and their interaction with cAMP reduce [118] or even abolish [119] heart rhythm, depending
signalling is summarized in figure 3. The ‘membrane clock’ on the BAPTA concentration used.
consists of a periodic sequence of activation of various ionic Below we discuss how proteins involved in membrane
currents, such as the funny current I;, L-type calcium current, and calcium clocks are modulated by cAMP signalling, as
the current mediated by the NCX, and repolarizing currents, well as what are less direct cAMP-related interactions.