Figure 3. A graphical overview of how the two rhythm-generating clocks interact with cAMP signalling to generate cardiac rhythm. |, funny current generated by
HCN channels; Ica, L-type calcium current; |x, repolarizing potassium currents; Iyax, Current generated by the sodium-potassium pump; lyaca, Current generated by
the sodium-calcium exchanger; SR, sarcoplasmic reticulum; RyR, ryanodine receptors; SERCA, SERCA pumps in the sarcoplasmic reticulum; AC1, adenylyl cyclase
1. Any resemblance of the diagram to a flux capacitor is purely coincidental. (Online version in colour.)

involvement of HCN1 and HCN2 [120]. The HCN4 function is The L-type calcium current contributes to both the mem-
clearly increased under adrenergic stimulation, but the exact brane clock (by depolarizing the cell) and the calcium clock
nature of the regulation is not straightforward. Early, as well (being the main source of calcium influx into the cells). Its
as more recent studies indicate that cAMP directly binds to pharmacological blockade was observed to reduce the rate
HCN channels to stimulate the funny current [121,122]. How- of activation of sinoatrial cells [126-128]. The channels carry-
ever, PKA phosphorylation (downstream of cAMP increase) ing the current were long thought to be phosphorylated
also appears to lead to enhancement of the channel function directly by PKA, but recent studies demonstrated that the
[123,124]. These two forms of adrenergic enhancement of the cAMP-dependent activation of the current is in fact mediated
funny current are not mutually exclusive, and it is likely that by Rad, a channel inhibitor associated with the local signalo-
they both take place and possibly involve distinct plasma- some [129-131]. The regulatory sequence therefore involves
lemma domains. Consistent with this notion, a study by St cAMP activation of PKA, phosphorylation of Rad molecules
Clair et al. [125] indicates that PDE3 and PDE4 differentially in the vicinity and consequent release of its inhibitory
regulate HCN funny current by controlling separate cAMP action on L-type calcium current, which is enhanced. While
domains and by differentially constraining access of the first observed in ventricles, the role of Rad in SAN cells
second messenger to HCN channels. Two separate mechan- appears to be similar, where an increased resting heart rate
isms seem to be at play: while PDE4 restricts direct access of following ablation of Rad was observed [132], which is con-
cAMP to HCN ina domain that does not involve PKA activity, sistent with the L-type calcium current disinhibition and
at least at rest, PDE3 appears to control a separate cAMP pool the role of the current in heart rhythm generation.

that requires PKA activation to potentiate the channel voltage- Another prominent member of the membrane clock