thesis of effect sizes from published meta-analyses reported a reduced cognitive performance which is mediated by a
small but significant relationship between several measures range of comorbidities including sleep disturbances, micro
of higher cognitive function and heavier body weight [37]. vascular problems and depression [55]. Controlling for a
The results from behavioural studies are supported by the range of comorbidities is necessary to draw conclusions
results from studies that have examined brain function in about the specific association between obesity, brain structure
adults with and without obesity using brain imaging tech- and cognition. =
niques. There is evidence that having obesity is associated Collectively the data from cross-sectional behavioural and = =
with altered functional connectivity between brain regions. brain imaging studies converge to suggest that obesity is __
A meta-analysis of 29 studies that used resting-state func- associated with disrupted higher cognitive function, particu- = =
tional magnetic resonance imaging found evidence that larly in the domains of inhibitory control and memory. 3!
higher BMI is associated with decreased functional connec- However, the results from these studies do not shed any a
tivity in networks associated with cognition and increased light on whether the cognitive profile is a causal factor in =
connectivity in networks associated with reward processing the development of obesity. In fact, it is possible that no = &
[38,39]. There is also more recent evidence for disruption causal relationship exists, and that the association is =
to the hierarchical functional organization of large-scale explained by a common third factor exerting an independent 3
networks in the brain in obesity [40]. An analysis of studies effect on both cognition and obesity. There could be causal
that examined neural responses to visual presentation food pathway from cognition to obesity, but the cross-sectional S
cues in the scanner found that compared with lean participants, association could equally be explained by the reverse causal S
participants with obesity had reduced activation in regions pathway: an impact of adiposity on cognitive function.
associated with cognitive control and increased activation in Indeed, there is evidence that prolonged consumption of a
reward-related brain regions [41]. A recent meta-analysis high fat diet, accumulation of excess adipose tissue and
found no evidence for reduced activity in cognitive control development of the metabolic syndrome is associated with
areas in obesity [42] but this result may be explained by the reduced cognitive function via several mechanisms including
fact that only passive food viewing paradigms were included oxidative stress, inflammation, insulin resistance and altered
in the analysis and studies assessing activation during tasks neurochemical signalling [56-59]. Cross-sectional measure-