challenges involved in transporting materials and specimens ent format, and make them publicly available. It is important to
to hub facilities beyond legislative boundaries, these new note that currently, there may often be situations where devel-
tools provide an opportunity for collaboration between differ- oped countries operate existing integrated databases, and
ent stakeholders and can significantly increase the number of researchers from the global South and low-income countries
observation points across space and time without the merely contribute data. This user-donator pattern could
enormous expense of satellite networks. result in a bias in terms of rewarding and crediting scientific
It is noteworthy that these observation tools are also research, which must be avoided based on the experience of
highly compatible with citizen science [29,31,32]. The stake- the previous colonial structure. We must remember to ensure
holders, as mentioned above, include citizens as well as an equitable scheme for data acquisition, analysis, and its use
scientists. Continuous observation by citizens, performed in a across countries, as emphasized for many situations of inter-
non-burdensome and therefore sustainable way, can provide national collaborations and collective actions [44,140,141].
high-resolution monitoring data in both space-time and International networks like ILTER and GEO BON should
time-space dimensions (box 1). In fact, citizen monitoring of further assist in the ecosystem observations, in which data
biodiversity has attracted attention in recent years, owing might be archived in different formats and in local languages,
largely to the development of new survey methods; but to help store metadata in a standardized format with represen-
surveys and sampling have been conducted not only by citi- tative languages like English and beyond, to ensure wider

zens, of course, but also by staff of nongovernmental accessibility and equitable distribution of these benefits.


Filling knowledge gaps among scientists on how to use help develop sustainable industrial practices that support

novel monitoring techniques should be prerequisite for the both biodiversity and human well-being.

mutual, equitable collaboration needed to establish better Collaborating with the business sector for analysis of