
That a policy of ‘net-zero emissions’ can be, and needs to the abalone fishery became well established. But as the popu-
be, attained should not be questioned; the false expectation is lations of sea urchins also grew, depleting offshore kelp
rather that net-zero should be our only ecological goal. populations, finfish populations collapsed [58]. The reintro-
Attempts at increasing global GDP even under net-zero can duction of otters into areas from which they had been
be guaranteed to disrupt Nature’s other maintenance and reg- extirpated therefore became highly controversial, trading off
ulating services, disrupting in turn the climate system, making the potential economic and other benefits of replacing shell
net-zero that much harder to maintain. Complementarities fisheries by fin fisheries [59,60]. Putting value on ecosystem
among Nature’s services are a reason our economic system is services is complicated by the fact that we do not all value
bounded. New ideas and new ways of doing things can the potential options in the same way.””
make the bound larger than it is today, but the bound cannot Nested measures such as the number of species within each
be enlarged indefinitely (§5). Over the past 70 years or so, the functional group have proved to be useful. Combinations of
bound has in fact been shrinking. That is the Anthropocene. native species that have coevolutionary history of interactions

have been found to display greater complementarities
than combinations of exotic species with briefer histories of
interactions. Then there are examples that point to the contri-

5. Biodiversity and ecosystem productivity bution diversity within functional groups makes to the
Life and the processes that give rise to maintenance and resilience of ecosystems. Elmqvist et al. [62] speak of the diver-
regulating services have coevolved since life began some 3.7 sity of responses to environmental change among species
billion years ago. The coevolution has led to a world that is contributing to the same ecological function as response diversity.
inhabitable by us humans. That is the sense in which we Response diversity is an important feature of the resilience of
owe our very existence to the activities of past and present ecosystems and resembles diversity of companies in the same
life forms.'” economic sector represented in a financial portfolio. Just as