tivity in networks associated with cognition and increased light on whether the cognitive profile is a causal factor in =
connectivity in networks associated with reward processing the development of obesity. In fact, it is possible that no = &
[38,39]. There is also more recent evidence for disruption causal relationship exists, and that the association is =
to the hierarchical functional organization of large-scale explained by a common third factor exerting an independent 3
networks in the brain in obesity [40]. An analysis of studies effect on both cognition and obesity. There could be causal
that examined neural responses to visual presentation food pathway from cognition to obesity, but the cross-sectional S
cues in the scanner found that compared with lean participants, association could equally be explained by the reverse causal S
participants with obesity had reduced activation in regions pathway: an impact of adiposity on cognitive function.
associated with cognitive control and increased activation in Indeed, there is evidence that prolonged consumption of a
reward-related brain regions [41]. A recent meta-analysis high fat diet, accumulation of excess adipose tissue and
found no evidence for reduced activity in cognitive control development of the metabolic syndrome is associated with
areas in obesity [42] but this result may be explained by the reduced cognitive function via several mechanisms including
fact that only passive food viewing paradigms were included oxidative stress, inflammation, insulin resistance and altered
in the analysis and studies assessing activation during tasks neurochemical signalling [56-59]. Cross-sectional measure-
requiring inhibitory control were excluded. ment of variables at one time point, means that it is
Obesity is also associated with altered brain morphology. impossible to draw conclusions about whether obesity pre-
The results from four meta-analyses report an association cedes altered cognitive function or the other way round.
between higher BMI and reduced grey matter (GM) volume Longitudinal studies allow for testing of the temporal
in areas of the brain that underpin higher cognitive function relationships between variables, which is necessary to show
including the prefrontal cortex [43-46]. These effects have a cause precedes an effect. Testing over multiple time
been reported to be present from an early age and have points at an early age before weight gain has occurred also
been linked to cognitive performance [47,48]. The collective reduces the possibility that any association between cognition
results from individual small-scale studies are supported by and adiposity is explained by the long-term effects of dietary
findings from big data studies that have analysed findings pattern and/or living with obesity on the brain.
