many adjectives are placed before the word cause presumably

2. There is no formulaic scientific method

As we consider the study of causal effects and causal theories in to imply something, yet it is not clear to us what is necessarily
obesity-related research, let us ask about some fundamentals of implied or whether there is an explicit definition of what is
causation itself as well as about scientific approaches to study- implied. The text box 1 includes some quotations from the
ing causation. With respect to causation itself, some scholars literature illustrating the use of such terms.

have noted that it is the intellectual wellspring from which We do not know what terms like ‘primary cause’ or ‘prin-
we all drink. That is, we are motivated to estimate causal cipal cause’ mean precisely. We suggest that authors do not
effects, determine whether causation exists and to find causal use or define terms like these clearly or explicitly. How then
outcomes. The thought is that in doing so, one not only can we evaluate whether, in fact, any research questions or
comes to understand the world in a meaningful way but also hypotheses involving those terms have been answered or
learns which manipulations can achieve desired ends. answered adequately?

And yet, philosophers of science have noted that whether Accepting that there are causes and that some causal effects
causation even exists is not clear. If one considers atoms are not zero, then causes presumably exist in some quantity. As
and molecules and the cells, tissues, organs, bodies and E. L. Thorndike famously wrote, ‘All that exists, exists in some
other conglomerations that atoms and molecules compose, amount and can be measured’ [14]. These linguistic modifiers
beyond the Cartesian doubt expressed in the phrase ‘Cogito seem to imply a quantity of causation, but how we quantify
ergo sum’, we can take their existence as not in question. We causal effects in a way that is useful and meaningful?
can weigh them, measure their volume, observe some of There is no single way to quantify causal effects, especially
them under a microscope, excise some and hold some in when we may change the outcome variable or its scaling for
our hands. But we cannot hold causation in our hands. We can- which we wish to estimate an effect of some cause or causal