ere . hs and by randomizing subjects to packets, the experimenter
lence of obesity in offspring [59]. However, breastfeeding is has successfully used randomization to break any dependency
strongly socially patterned, and confounding would generate

or correlation between the characteristics of the subject and the
associations in the same direction across all studies. If, how- characteristics of the packet. This eliminates all confounding
ever, populations are chosen for which the confounding subject characteristics. However, the subject is not randomized
structure is known to differ substantially, the findings just to different levels of the independent variable of interest
generated by confounding would be anticipated to vary

; . (e.g. the value of some constituent of the blood of mice and
widely between them, but causal effects would not differ parabiosis, BMI of a roommate, socioeconomic status of a
between the populations. Comparing data from a_high- household, etc.) but, in fact, is randomized to the entire
income country cohort, in which breastfeeding was strongly exposure unit or packet, which comes with other characteris
socially patterned, with those from a middle-income country tics that may be correlated with, or not independent of, the
cohort in which there was no marked social patterning of particular independent variable of interest.
breastfeeding is one example of this design. Associations in Asa result of the randomization, packet randomized exper-
Opposing, directions were seen, with breastfeeding apparently iments eliminate entire classes of confounders, specifically all
protecting against later obesity in the high-income country those confounders that are due to the subject and their history,
but not in the middle-income country cohort. The finding of

: : but not confounders inherent within the packet. For example,
a lack of effect of breastfeeding on later obesity has also been suppose roommates are assigned to each other at random,
seen in a large cluster randomized controlled trial [60].
