demographic predictors:
our approach can help to predict locations where reducing

population size 365 exposure through vector control, for instance, would be most
proportion of urban population 29 impactful. Other interventions, such as improving diagnosis
proportion of household with unfinished floor 19 and access to treatment, can also be considered, and this
material may lead to targeting different locations.
The performances of the Fol predictive models were good,
with cross-validation performances that would suggest lim-
areas in 2020 (electronic supplementary material, text S5 and ited overfitting (electronic supplementary material, table S6).
figures S28-S31). However, a formal validation of the disease burden model
While the Fol showed an overall decreasing trend with external data would be far more complex, as sources to
between 1995 and 2020 (figure 4), the prevalence of infection achieve this are limited. In fact, the surveillance system for
was relatively stable, with the national median prevalence Chagas disease currently in place cannot be used to validate
and IQR across urban and rural settings being, respectively, our disease burden estimates, as the reporting is extremely
1.0% [0.8-1.2%] in 1995 and 1.0% [0.8-1.3%] in 2020. A 6% sparse, although, we observe that cases are detected in
decline in the prevalence of cases in the acute stage was pre- almost all departments of Colombia (electronic supple-
dicted between 1995 and 2020, but this was compensated by mentary material, table S7). The four departments having
a 13% increase, during the same period, in the predicted reported confirmed chronic cases in 2019 (Arauca, Santander,
prevalence of cases in the chronic severe stage (figure 5). Cesar and Boyaca) represent only 14% of the severe cases
As the relative prevalence of infection remained largely obtained according to our results. These departments are
stable but the population increased by 39% between 1995 and endemic areas that likely have adequate infrastructure to con-
2020 (electronic supplementary material, figures S28 and S29), duct diagnosis, as well as trained staff and population with
the overall burden of Chagas disease was predicted to have greater awareness of the disease than in other areas of the
increased significantly (table 2). We estimated that the total country. In Colombia, in the general population, the preva-