Figure 1 shows how inequality changes with time as a function of circumscription on inequality. To vary connectivity, we =
of different costs of migration. First, it shows that when there is first consider that polities are organized on a square grid = &
no cost of migration c,,=0, inequality initially reduces to its with a distance of 1 between two adjacent squares. Connec- =
minimum possible level. This is the expected result because tions exist between two polities if the distance is less thana 3
the dominant of a polity next to a polity with lower inequality maximum travelling distance dmax. We then move to hetero- s
has to reduce its inequality to avoid departure of its own sub- geneous networks to capture more realistic scenarios. In the S
ordinates. Once all groups are at the lowest value of inequality, following results the cost of migration (¢,,), and the &
they are all equally attractive to subordinates and inequality parameters relating to instability (u,, €) are kept constant.
remains stable. However, figure 1 shows that when there is a Figure 3 shows that decreasing the number of polities and
cost of migration, all polities eventually end up with a very decreasing the connectivity between polities both lead to
high level of inequality. This is the case even under a very increases in inequality. In other words, smaller and less
low cost of migration c,, = 2.5%. While this may appear sur- connected areas exhibit more inequality. These effects are a
prising, it can be explained by the fact that when a result of the generation of variation, or fluctuations, in
dominant updates its inequality, the share that the leader inequality within polities and the subsequent dynamics of
needs to concede is the share that the leader of the most changes that these fluctuations induce in connected polities.
equal polity provides to their followers, discounted by the In the absence of any random variations (€ = 0), increasing
cost of migration, 1—c,,. Note that for any non-null cost of or decreasing connectivity or the number of polities do not
migration, (1—c,,)<1 and thus, the new inequality will affect inequality either in the short or long term (electronic
always be slightly higher than the inequality of the other supplementary material, figure S1). However, if we allow
patch. As each polity repeats this process, inequality increases for random variations to occur (€ >0) then increasing the
to the maximum value possible, z~1. Figure 1b shows that number of polities increases the probability that in a given
what the cost of migration does affect is the rate of increase time step, a leader of a polity will randomly reduce its
in inequality. This is important because our results show inequality (electronic supplementary material, figure S3).
that the process of increase of inequality can be slow, for Such reductions in inequality will then cause connected poli-
instance it takes almost 1000 updates for each dominant to ties to reduce their inequality to avoid a loss of subordinates,