in all variants of Village, households are continually reacting turkey populations remained high [57].
to their highly variable local conditions, thus expressing Second, comparisons between locations of households in
different behaviours. Admittedly even the more complicated the V2.8 version of Village and real household locations in
agents portrayed in [24,53], however, would eventually reach the VEPI area indicate a radical change in the locational
the end of their available behavioural modifications. It seems practices of households in the early-to-mid-1000s. After the
likely that this never happens for modern humans [53]. mid-1000s, agents living in a model world where soils
It is possible, however, that real populations can grow degrade very slowly produce a markedly better fit to the
faster, or undergo climate change that affects their carrying locations of real households than do agents living in a
capacity more rapidly, than their inventiveness can success- world where soils degrade rapidly [21]. Following the mid-
fully react to. The data streams in figures 1 and 2 suggest 900s, agents operating with the constraint that if they move
that this could have been happening to Pueblo populations. it must be to a place where hunting is likely to be fruitful, pro-
Modelling results describe how social complexity allows duce a better fit than do agents who are not required to
room for further population growth even after the onset of prioritize access to game in moving [21]. In fact this often
the Malthusian Transition Interval. suppresses movement, better reproducing the very stable
site locations seen in the last half of the occupation of the
VEPI area.

Site stability certainly also had implications for longevity
(e) Nitrogen cycling of field use. Larry Benson sampled and analysed soils from
Peter Richerson and Robert Boyd suggest that close attention several regions in the Southwest densely occupied by prehis-
to the way nitrogen is used and cycled in a socioecology can panic maize farmers [58]. His field-life calculations for Mesa
reveal how close a population is to its carrying capacity. ‘If Verde National Park, taking into account organic-nitrogen

we were to pick a single element that most closely represents values and a range of potential N-mineralization rates,
