general process that may affect the rate at which inequality iments of such games have shown that unfairness usually
develops. Quantitative comparative analyses of historical evolves, but that uncertainty and errors will limit unfair
and archaeological time series data in different environments offers [25,26,36]. The effect of this variation in proposals by
could potentially assess the role of circumscription in the dominants revealed in our model helps to explain some
rates of evolution of inequality [29,32]. seemingly conflicting results in the previous literature.

We should emphasize that under the assumptions of our Reproductive skew models that have investigated migration
model our finding that the maximum level of inequality is between groups (rather than subordinates dispersing to live
always reached occurs in the absence of other processes. alone [21]) also find that the maximum level of inequality is
Indeed, once fluctuations and instability in the level of reached. However, an agent-based model, which addressed
inequality that individual dominants propose are introduced, different but related issues, found that the level of inequality
the average level of inequality that is achieved is limited. In was actually affected by cost of migration [18]. This difference
the real world it is likely that other mechanisms, which we is due to the fact that the reproductive skew model assumed
have not included here, would also limit inequality. For that all individuals follow the optimal strategy without error,
instance, subordinates can also build levelling coalitions to while the agent-based model considered that dominants
remove dominants that are being too despotic [33-35]. sometimes follow a non-optimal strategy.

The results from our model highlight the importance of This view of inequality being set by the ‘market’ of domi-
considering how inequality can be affected not only by the nants and subordinates has already been well discussed in

internal dynamics within a single group but also by what is literature on partner choice [37,38] and it aligns well with


previous models by [19,27], which modelled the emergence and the establishment of more inclusive political and econ-
