Specifically, stereotyped motor reactions to distinct auditory The previous paragraphs already introduced how the activity in
stimuli evoke large increases in firing activity in V1, differen- V1 is not only determined by visual information, but is also
tially encoding distinct motor responses [47] (figure 1c,d). This influenced by other sensory modalities and by non-sensory
motor-related activity likely underlies a significant fraction of factors such as body movement.
what was thought to be the consequence of direct auditory pro- Several other non-sensory sources of information also
jections to V1 [45,46,48]. Significantly, even some features of exert an influence on V1 by modulating visual responses.
auditory modulation of visual processing are in line with a This is the case, for instance, for arousal [56-58], locomotion
potential motor origin. For example, head motion either excites [59-63], attention [62,6466] and context-dependent modu-
or inhibits V1 activity based on whether it occurs under light or lation [41,62,64-69]. With ‘context’, we mean factors that
dark conditions, respectively [49,50]; this is analogous to what influence how information about single-sensory stimuli is
has been shown for auditory modulation of V1 activity [42]. interpreted. For instance, task rules or the likelihood (expec-
A warning is warranted, however, against attributing a motor tation) that a certain stimulus occurs can be considered to
origin to all sound-evoked responses in V1. In fact, monosynap- be contextual factors. In addition, reward-related modulation
tic connections between auditory cortex and V1 have long been of visual processing has been documented in V1 and other
established [25,37,38,42], and in a multi-sensory change detec- visual areas [55,70-72]. V1 displays neural correlates of
tion task, early-onset responses in V1 were found to directly reward expectancy and reward, both on short time scales
stem from the activity of auditory cortex on top of a large and periods involving long-term plasticity [73-75]. All of
motor-related component [46]. these modulatory influences are generally low dimensional
Looking back, which of the earlier results on auditory- [72], that is, they can be represented in terms of a few modes
evoked activity in V1 actually reflect the effect of direct of activity similarly affecting all neurons in a given area.
auditory cortical projections? And what is the function of Moreover, these influences exert long-lasting, tonic effects
such auditory signals in V1? In view of the recent develop- on the activity of V1 (ie. lasting for as long as a given contex-
ments, these are questions that have to be addressed anew, tual factor is present, e.g. seconds or more in the case of

taking care to disambiguate neural activity that truly has an behavioural state or locomotion [57,61]). This is visible,