probability of being successful most often. However, our results gathering and spring fishing are also among the most predict-

indicate that the probability of success alone does not explain able patches. Women were never observed in the winter marine


patch. We note, however, that our sample of women’s foraging conditions. For example, retreating sea ice and longer ice-

trips is relatively small. Women’s choices are additionally deter- free periods owing to a warming climate will make hunters
mined by cultural and situational factors (including division of and fishers more reliant on boats to reach harvest areas.
labour, family composition, and birth order) which shape Already during data collection in 2013, some hunters
opportunities for women to learn to hunt. As such, patterns reported that the availability of the winter marine patch
of patch choice among women reflect these factors rather was delayed by poor ice conditions, making seal hunting
than a greater risk aversion compared to men per se. In fact, dangerous. The available alternative patch during this
some women in Kangiqsujuaq are considered to be accom- season is primarily inland fishing, leading to potential
plished hunters, the most well-known among them being the reductions in the diversity of species caught. Revisiting our
author and sculptor Mitiarjuk Nappaaluk. Indeed it was on hypothetical individuals from figure 3 with this scenario in
the basis of work in Kangiqsujuaq that Saladin d’Anglure mind indicates that younger, low-income men would be the
[76] proposed the ‘third gender’ of the Inuit, although recent most affected by the reduced availability of winter marine =
work by Kallaleq scholar Jessen Williamson suggests that patches. On the other hand, the hunting activities of high- >
Inuit conceive of the soul as genderless [77]. income young adults with many in- and out-going ties in __
While household income has little to no effect on either the food sharing network, and women who rarely use =
women’s or men’s within-patch success probability across marine patches but prefer inland harvest activities in the 5!
patches, our results show that income affects Inuit patch winter and spring months, are unlikely to be strongly directly = >
choice, suggesting that harvesters differ in their interests and affected by sea ice becoming inaccessible for winter hunting, =
motivation when deciding where and what to hunt, or that though one might expect indirect effects, for instance owing = &