linearity remaining unchanged from one generation to the metabolic rate and mass, one’s capacity to make reasonable
next [24]. There are clear paths by which selection is expected biological inferences is more limited. Absolute metabolic rate
to alter covariances (collinearity) between traits ([17-19]; see provides no information about the relative proportion of
also box 1). Hence predictions based on collinearities that metabolism that is mass-dependent or mass-independent.
change are less reliable. Whether these downsides are sufficient This limits our ability to make inferences about the causal
to avoid the use of absolute metabolic rate is debatable; but pathways through which absolute metabolic rate affects fitness,
they should at least be considered. For further discussion of col- as well as how selection on absolute metabolic rate will alter
linear traits in the context of selection, Mitchell-Old & Shaw metabolic allometry ([54]; see also figure 5). To illustrate,
[24] and Morrissey & Ruxton [38] are, in our view, a useful consider three scenarios through which selection on absolute
place to start. metabolic rate can causally alter metabolic allometry: we
Ultimately, we favour the use of MIMR over absolute meta- have deliberately made them coarse for heuristic purposes. In
bolic rate not because of the statistical issues associated with the first scenario, metabolic rate and mass are two distinct
either approach—in fact, on balance, MIMR may be less desir- traits just like any others—they each undergo evolutionary

able from a statistical perspective. Rather, we favour MIMR change according to selection and their genetic (co)variance


-0.5
0.35 0.55 0.75 0.95 0.35 0.55 0.75 0.95
collinearity (?)

metabolic trait: o absolute MR o MIMR

Figure 4. Distribution of the estimates of linear selection gradients for body mass (fy) and metabolic rate (Byp) obtained from multiple linear regressions that
used different metrics for metabolic rate: MIMR (orange) or absolute metabolic rate (teal). Plotted estimates are from 100 simulations across the four levels of