the aspects of the social system. Several papers in this issue compared species [19,27]; we hope that future studies will continue
to incorporate and compare spatial and social processes across species, contexts and scales [22]. Comparative analyses could
ask, for example: why does the activity-sociality correlation reported by Baker et al. [20] differ from the opposite finding in red
deer [15]? Does it emerge purely from biology, or also from aspects of the sampling regime involved? Comparative work is a
growing field of social network ecology [37], and merging it with spatial behaviour is bound to be highly productive.

(f) Methodological advancements and the data frontier

Several areas of potential methodological improvement are highlighted in this issue. The advancing data frontier is still
noticeable, in that there are several commonly acknowledged data problems that remain at the spatial-social interface. Most
notably, spatial data are commonly used to answer social questions: proximity is used to detect or approximate social interac-
tions, either using direct censuses (e.g. [15]) or remote biologging and telemetry (e.g. [24]). The approach of using spatially
explicit data to answer social questions provides a useful workaround to the fact that social interactions can be more difficult to
detect than collocations in space, but this approach is still afflicted with problems such as missingness in the data. Regardless,
we are optimistic that missing data is not an insurmountable obstacle for spatial-social interface studies. There exist no ‘perfect’
systems in which there are no missing individuals either in the social or the spatial realms, although ATLAS or other reverse
GPS methods might offer promising future opportunities. Indeed, there is no perfect system for any scientific question, and


testing and acknowledging shortcomings like these is ultimately likely to be more fruitful than searching for a Holy Grail
of Data. To that end, owing to the lack of comparative work (§7e) it is unclear how sampling biases like these impact the

relationships that we detect between spatial and social phenotypes and environments. That is, co-sampling biases are stilla |S
complete black box. Perhaps future studies will build further on the rapid growth in spatial data to reduce biases, or build = =
on ongoing efforts to develop pipelines for verifying data collection approaches’ vulnerability to them [44]. There is already = =