
Social concepts can also influence spatial judgments and introduce systematic distortions of geographical features. In one
study, Burris and Branscombe [131] showed that participants from the US systematically overestimated the distance between
two cities that lie on different sides of the US/Canadian border, relative to two cities within the US. A similar effect of the
US/Canadian border was observed in Canadian participants, who judged an American and Canadian city as further apart than
two Canadian cities separated by an equivalent distance. These effects did not appear to be just the result of a contiguity bias,
as US participants judged a city in Alaska to be closer than non-US cities, even when the physical distance from the reference
was similar. Participants did not show these same distortions of distance when judging distances between two different foreign
locations [131]. These findings suggest that self-relevance is important to how social concepts influence spatial judgments.


Consistent with this suggestion, Maddox et al. [132] demonstrated how the socially relevant concept of race can influence spatial
inferences. Participants learned the location of a number of features in a fictional city. Many of these locations were associated
with different racial groups. For example, some businesses were described as primarily serving Black or White customers
and a dry cleaning business was described as having an owner with an Asian-American name. Features were clustered into
neighbourhoods that were largely segregated by race. After learning the locations of features and their neighbourhoods on
a map, participants then had to make estimates of the distance between features. Participants systematically overestimated
the distance between features that were located in different racially defined neighbourhoods. A follow-up experiment found
that such effects were not present when a less-salient social concept, political affiliation, was used to define neighbourhoods.
The neural mechanisms that underlie the influence of social information on spatial representations have not been studied
extensively. This is an area that we hope future research might examine to provide new insight into the interactions between
social and spatial cognition.

(c) Social factors shape interactions with the spatial environment
