apparent relationships between third parties, which can help to construct such social cognitive ‘maps’, and use such knowledge
to shape their social inferences and behaviour (e.g. to determine who knows what [92]; to inform interpretations of gossip [93]).
Information about patterns of social relationships between others appears to be so important to humans that when people think
about or encounter others, or even merely view familiar others’ faces, our brains spontaneously encode a rich set of information
about those individuals, including aspects of where those individuals ‘sit’ in social networks [94-100].

After retrieving knowledge of others’ positions in their social networks, people appear to use this information to shape many
different aspects of their cognition and behaviour. For instance, when one only has incomplete or ambiguous information about
another person, as is often the case in everyday life (e.g. with new acquaintances), knowledge about that person’s social ties can
inform predictions about that individual. For example, people tend to assume that others will share traits and preferences with
their friends [101,102]. Such assumptions shape subsequent behaviour—e.g. people are less likely to trust those who are known
to have untrustworthy friends, even when they consistently show themselves to be trustworthy [101]. Similarly, people appear
to be aware of the fact that those who occupy central positions in their social networks are particularly likely to behave in ways
that are reflective of community norms, as they preferentially look to such individuals to efficiently ascertain social norms [103].
In addition to using social network knowledge to guide inferences about others, people can also apply such knowledge to guide
effective information-sharing [86], manage their own reputations (e.g. showing more positive attributes when being observed
by central others [104]), and manipulate their social environment, such as by participating in defensive behaviours aimed at
protecting one’s own friendships, avoiding replacement by others, and maintaining one’s social standing (e.g. [105,106]).


(c) How do people build mental representations of their social networks?

Clearly, people are very attuned to information about others’ locations in their social networks and use such knowledge in many
aspects of everyday life. How do people acquire such knowledge in the first place? Tracking relationships between others in a
large social group is a demanding endeavour. Even setting aside more complex aspects of social network knowledge, simply