(e.g. towards the left or the right) was commonly observed protects the tongue from damage and injuries by the teeth.
during late jaw opening, just before maximum gape Bilateral incongruence in transverse bending was consist-
(figure 4b: timepoints B,C) with a reversal of the direction ently observed mid-opening (figure 4b: timepoint G). In these
of symmetrical bending towards the other side during jaw cases, the right marker set reflected a left bend while the left
closing. This pattern appeared regardless of the chewing marker set reflected a right bend, such that the middle mar-
side. This is notably different than that observed in kers of each set were in a more lateral position than the
humans. Mioche et al. [13] demonstrated that tongue-pushing anterior and posterior markers (i.e. widening in the trans-
towards the working side to move or hold food on the occlu- verse plane here as the tongue is level in the sagittal plane;
sal surfaces was correlated with definitive unilateral chewing figure 3g). This roughly corresponds with previous work in
on that side. Thus while tongue-jaw coordination is pre- this individual, where the timing of maximum width for
served at the gape-cycle level, the relationship between the middle marker (pig 21, region 2 in [18]) is offset from
tongue transverse deformation to chewing side is less con- the timing of the more anterior and posterior marker pairs
strained in pigs. This difference may reflect the fact that [18]. We hypothesize this may be a localized particle collec-
pigs tend to occlude on both sides simultaneously because tion or may be a stage of twisting to help with transport
they are anisognathous [20], and food is likely being man- and reposition the bolus.
oeuvered between both sides of occluding teeth despite Sagittal angles showed consistent timing relative to the
there being a true kinematic working and balancing side as gape cycle. The maximum bilaterally positive (convex)
evidenced by jaw yaw [16,21]. angle, or arch, was observed during mid-to-late opening
Low-magnitude bends or a more or less straight tongue in (figure 4c: timepoint F) whereas the minimum bilateral arch
the transverse plane were observed as a transitional state (flat to slightly concave shape) was observed during early-
between the direction of transverse bending. There can be to-mid opening (figure 4c: timepoint D). This flat or slightly
more prolonged periods of low-magnitude symmetrical or concave shaped deformation is likely contributing to the for-
asymmetrical bending occurring as the jaw was held together mation of a cupped tongue to aid in the collection of particles
during the occlusal phase, when the tongue is most retracted in preparation for the next powerstroke. The addition of a
