life stimuli documented that with enough exposure to atypical for the fluency theory come from two levels: (i) mechanistic
patterns, a shift in fluency and, consequently, preference occurs debates about the sources of fluency and affect, and (ii) more z
[53,59,60]. This highlights the role of perceivers’ past history in general considerations of the functions of fluency and affect. =
determining what object will be fluent and preferred. Before expanding on that, it is useful to restate the basic “S
In short, the original hedonic processing fluency theory, tenets of PPF and then discuss how PPF sees fluency and its = =
and its extension to art, proposed a relatively simple relation- hedonic marking. S
ship: fluent processing enhances appreciation because it In general, PPF assumes that the basic goal of human = ©
evokes positive affect, whereas disfluent processing reduces cognitive activity is to minimize future surprise by building, =
appreciation because it elicits negative affect. Obviously, the on the basis of observed outcomes, an internal model of | 5
original fluency theory never claimed to explain all aesthetic the world that accurately predicts sensory states [66]. People = =
judgements, but it made clear that, all else being equal, more revise their models when they are confronted with new and S
fluent works of art should be appreciated, and gratuitously surprising information. Importantly, people also execute _
disfluent art penalized. In fact, in early formulations of actions to obtain more information about the world in order =
this theory, the boundary conditions were discussed rather to refine their internal model and minimize surprises in 5!
sparsely. Therefore, it is not surprising that over time the future. There are two types of activities. Whereas pragmatic = =
empirical findings and conceptual frameworks emerged actions serve exploitation purposes, epistemic actions =
that challenged this simple proposal. serve exploration purposes. This process of choosing what  &
Next, we review these challenges and preview possible environment to explore is referred to as ‘active inference’
solutions—coming from explicitly incorporating the role of and, ultimately serves the purpose of building the most S
expectations (as elucidated by PPF) and goals (as elucidated comprehensive yet simple model of the world. %
by EMM). Note that when the hedonic fluency theory was PPF accounts well for a variety of empirical data, &
proposed in 2003 and extended to art in 2004, there was little especially in the perceptual domain [9]. It also proposes to S
empirical evidence for how expectations and goals shape the explain affective phenomena by assuming that perceivers
impact of fluency on judgements (aesthetic and otherwise). experience reward from moving towards a state of increased
However, as we discuss next, they both play a key role in deter- predictability. More specifically, some PPF papers talk about