pants’ task is simply to detect the presence of faces, the was that the original hedonic fluency theory linked pleasure
androgynous faces are fluent and liked. However, when par- to the intrinsic value of low effort (e.g. reward for efficiency
ticipants’ task is to categorize faces into male or female, the in energy and coding) as well as the heuristic value of fluency
very same androgynous face becomes disfluent and disliked (e.g. familiarity is a heuristic cue to benign environments, pro-
[71]. Similar dynamic changes in fluency and preference for totypicality a cue to low deviance) [18]. In other words, in the
the same stimulus as a function of top-down manipulations original hedonic fluency theory, stimuli can be liked simply
have been demonstrated with other categories, such as because they are ‘easy on the mind’.
living-non-living [72], ethnic categories [73] and specific By contrast, expectations are key for PPF. Note, however,
emotion categories [27,74]. This dynamic dependence of stimu- that even within the PPF framework of hedonic fluency, differ-
lus fluency on top-down task set has been computationally ent readings put different emphasis on the notion of relative
modelled and accounts well for empirical data on changes in fluency. As mentioned, one interpretation equates fluency
fluency and attractiveness of faces from a variety of categories with a precise match between predictions and the sensory
[63]. In short, we propose that whether the same object is input, which indicates smaller prediction errors. In fact,
fluent, and benefits from the hedonic consequences of fluency, Brielmann and Dayan [64] modelled classic hedonic fluency
is moderated by the currently active and dynamically changing effects (exposure, complexity and symmetry) using these
model of the world. simplified assumptions, without incorporating the notion of
A much broader implication is that the impact of expec- relative fluency. However, other proposals within PPF tie hedo-

tations on fluency could be one reason why factors such as nic fluency to perception of relative changes in the expected


precision of one’s model or in the rate of prediction error mini- Picasso’s ‘Guernica’ (1937) is admired comes from its power- | 6 |

mization [68,69]. Regardless of one’s preferred reading of PPE ful and universal anti-war message (figure 1), whereas the
future research should investigate which aesthetic phenomena work of Paul Gauguin is being reconsidered based on