observation, he would have drawn somewhat different conclusions as to the develop-
ment of enamel generally.*

The view that enamel formation essentially consists in the centripetal calcification
of preformed fibres, is applicable to all enamels, and serves to render intelligible many
facts that were otherwise difficult to understand. Tomes’ processes and the existence
of a thin sheet of young enamel, which was perforated, have long been recognised

* Mr. Leon Wituiams (14, i.) writes: “If we look closely at the last layer of developing enamel
shown at d, we shall see that it contains a row of globular bodies of very regular and uniform size.
These are manifestly identical with those seen along the edges of the enamel in the acid-treated speci-
mens shown in figs. 33 and 35 of this paper. They are quite distinct from the masses of calcoglobulin,
such as are seen at C, in fig. 38. In fact, they are often, I may say generally, obscured by the melting
together of the large irregular masses. The enamel rods are built up by the successive, rhythmical
orderly deposit of these bodies of uniform size, which I shall henceforth denominate the enamel globules.
The larger, more transparent, and irregularly sized bodies of caleoglobulin melt or flow together to form
the interprismatic substance ”(p. 36).

“There are two distinct products of the enamel-forming organ. One of these products, from which
the enamel rods are built up, is formed by the ameloblasts, and is probably a direct nuclear formation.
In the enamel cells it takes the form of globular bodies containing granules, sometimes arranged with
more or less order, so as to resemble the nucleus of the cell. In the formed enamel rod these globular
bodies are more or less compressed into disk-like shapes, and are sometimes nearly or quite melted into
one another. Simultaneously or alternately with the deposit of the globular bodies a translucent
substance like albumen in appearance is seen passing out of the ameloblasts. This substance is probably