The result of this experiment, so far as it goes, is opposed to the opinion in question,
but we would disclaim attaching too much importance to a single case of the kind,
especially since the depth of the primary lesion could not have been uniform, and was
probably much less in some parts than in others. It must be admitted that the
question whether there is any localisation of sensibility, either fur the muscles which
are governed from the cortical motor regions or for the parts which they move, is one
which can scarcely be answered by experiments upon animals, and that for its solution
we must await the result of clinical and pathological observation upon Man.*

* H. Munk (‘Ueber die Functionen der Grosshirnrinde, 4te Mittheilung,’ fig. 4, p. 63) has
mapped out the external surface of the Monkey’s brain in a manner which, in certain particulars,
corresponds with the plan we have here given (in Diagram I[.). Although he regards the areas in
question as sensory rather than motor, the difference is merely one of terms, for the facts upon which he
rests this opinion are nearly the same as those which have guided us in arriving at our results. For the
author (p. 66) admits that he has found it difficult to prove that after extirpation of his so-called
“sensory areas” in Monkeys there is any loss of sensibility, at least to pressure, and it seems to be a
mere assumption that other forms of sensation, such as tactile sensibility and the muscular sense, are
abolished. Dismissing, then, the question of nomenclature, the two plans, so far as they deal with the
same regions, are strictly comparable.

On instituting such comparison, we find that our leg-, arm- and face-areas very nearly correspond with
those of Munx (who, however, designates as head-region that which we term the fuce-area, but connects
it with the movements of the same parts as our face-area is concerned with). The main differences are
to be found in the other two areas, viz., those for the trunk and head and eye movements respectively.
Munx’s trunk-region occupies the prefrontal lobe, whilst our trunk-area is comprised within the leg-region