under dry conditions, would be lost, as the sporophyte increased in complexity. The
development of absorbent organs (roots) ensuring a supply of moisture under the dry
conditions, associated with the start given to the individual arising from the fertilised
ovum by its connection with the parent sexual plant, may be supposed to have been
some of the factors in the elaboration. Further, the fact that division of the zygote
into swarm spores had not occurred may even at this early stage have been associated
with a difference in constitution of the cells of the primitive sporophyte. As
divergence of the characters of the two forms, the sexual and the asexual, continued,
the latter would form a vegetation capable of shading the soil and keeping it moist.
The conditions necessary for the development of the spores into the sexual form and
the ready fertilisation of the latter would be ensured, and the prothallus would persist
as a stage in the life-history. Any tendency to increase in complexity would be
checked by the fact that fertilisation and the development of the sporophyte would
bring about the death of the gametophyte. As the two generations continued to
diverge from one another, the early stage of the sporophyte in which it resembled the
gametophyte would become reduced, and ultimately disappear.
The above hypothesis may prove to be of use in showing that it is possible to form
a connected view of how a regular alternation of generations, such as that seen in
Ferns, may have arisen by the differentiation of two primitively similar (homologous)
individuals, the one into the sexual the other into the asexual form. It is, of course,
possible that, so far as the difference in mode of reproduction was concerned, the two
forms may have already existed, though not in necessary connection with one another,
in the life-history of the algal ancestor. The hypothesis has been stated without
reference to this, because the behaviour of fern prothalli in which apogamy is induced
affords examples of almost every step assumed by the theory. Thus the assumption