influence exhibited by various sub-groups of motor neurons. Tn illustration, I give
the following :—The cord having been transected in the lower thoracic region, the
Monkey frequently develops, in the course of some weeks, marked rigidity of the
lower limbs. Certain muscles become spastic and rigid, and gradually cease to be
ever fully relaxed, and structural rigidity may in time supervene. The hypertonic
and rigid muscles are especially the flexors of the hips and of the knees. In five
months’ time, the position permanently assumed by the limbs is as follows: they are
drawn up and somewhat crossed. The flexion of hips and knees may be extreme, the
adduction of the thighs is less. I cannot “myself escape the conviction that the
position assumed by the limb, and the late rigidity itself and its distribution in the
musculature, is the natural outcome of the fact that after the cord had been sundered
from the brain the inequality of incidence of the local stream of centripetal impulses,
and the fact that at its embouchement it selects, employs, and discharges motor
aeurons for flexion of hip and knee, and neglects the antergic extensors, leads, in due
course, to a permanent upset of balance between the two, in which relative over-
action is continuous in the one, and atrophy, yielding and under-action existent in
the other. In one Monkey, the amount of rigid flexion of the hips and knees was
unequal on the two sides, the left hip and knee being kept more flexed than the
right ; in this animal, reflexes were more easily elicited from the skin of the left limb
than of the right, but owing to the more rigid condition of the left limb, the move-
ment obtained was generally less in the left than right limb. It was, in fact, contrary
toa rule given (p. 172), easier to obtain movement of the right hip and knee from many
parts of the skin of the left limb than from the skin of right itself. From the front
of the left thigh, flexion of the left hip and adduction of the right thigh, with slight
extension of the right knee, could be regularly evoked. The greater rigidity was,