while neutral fat is stained red. Sections of Halla, from material recently preserved
in formalin, were cut with a freezing microtome; some of them were treated with
a solution of Nile Blue, washed in water and mounted in FARRANT'’s medium, The
fat globules exhibited a wide range of colour; many of them were stained red, others
reddish violet, others purple and some were blue. The red droplets consist of
neutral fat, for they have exactly the same colour as that assumed by droplets of
olein which had been treated with the same stain. The violet ones consist of neutral
fat with a very slight admixture of fatty acid, while the purple ones are composed
largely, and the blue ones probably entirely, of fatty acid. On the following morning
about a dozen other sections from the same batch, which had been lying overnight in
weak formalin in a covered vessel, were stained in exactly the same way, but in none
of them could droplets stained red be found ; they were all blue or bluish purple.
This clearly pointed to the fact that hydrolysis of the neutral fat had been taking
place during the night and that, by the morning, the droplets consisted entirely of
acid fat. Formalin is frequently acid, due to the presence of formic acid (produced
by oxidation of a portion of the formaldehyde), and on testing the sample in which
the sections had stood overnight it proved to be distinctly acid. The presence of
even this small amount of formic acid, acting overnight, had evidently caused
hydrolysis of the neutral fat, in the minute and easily accessiblé globules in the
chlorogogen cells, converting it into the corresponding fatty acid. Lorrain Smita
(1907, p. 417) has pointed out that neutral fat in the tissues is in a very unstable
condition and that mere exposure of sections to the carbon dioxide of the air for
twenty-four hours is sufficient to change the chemical character of the contained
globules of fat, transforming them to fatty acid. In addition to the mineral acids
which, as is well known, can bring about this change, he remarked that even acetic