perinuclear network; they are usually formed by the union of slender fibrils from
the general (that is, more peripheral) network, but in a few cases—for instance, in
some of the small cells in which the central.network extends nearly to the cone of
origin of the axone—the axone fibrill arise, in part at least, from the perinuclear
network. The small cells are more favourable for the study of the connections of the
neurofibrille of the axone with the intracellular network, and this for two reasons:
firstly, because in these cells the network is usually rather less complex than in large
cells; and, secondly, because a central section through the axone, including its
fibrillze, also contains a greater proportion of the intracellular network than is the
case in a section of the same thickness through a large cell, and therefore the
connections of the axone fibrille with this network are more likely to be visible.
These connections are clearly seen in figs. 22, 23, which are drawn from a small
anterior giant cell; in fact, from the first, or most anterior, giant cell of the specimen.
In some of the giant cells, especially in the larger ones, the axone fibrillee arise from
a series of very fine fibrils which issue from the general network. The extreme
tenuity of these fibrils greatly increases the difficulty of establishing the connection
between the intracellular network and the axone fibrille.

The number of fibrillee issuing from the cell varies and is correlated, to some
extent, with the size of the cell, and consequently of the giant fibre in which the
fibrille lie. From the small anterior giant cells only a few fibrillee, up to about half a
dozen or, in some cases, ten, may be counted, and these form a loose bundle 2 to 3h
in diameter, lying in a giant fibre, the internal diameter of which is 7 to 10 p (fig. 39).
In one case—a very small anterior giant cell—only a single fibril could be seen
entering the giant fibre. In the larger giant fibres a considerably greater number of