characteristic, and agrees with that of large flints from the bone-bed, in association
with which they are stated by workmen to have been found, and differs from the
colour and glaze of flints from higher horizons in the same locality. But not all the
exposures of bone-bed present this strong coloration of their contained flints ; in
some localities they are paler, and have also a “ glaze,” which is characteristic. The
flint implements from that second group of localities have the colour and glaze of the
bone-bed flints of the locality. As an example, I may cite the pit at Thorington Hall,
Wherstead, which I visited, in company with Mr. Morr, in May last. The flints
(both ordinary specimens and implements) found in the bone-bed there have a
whitish, cream-coloured surface. The evidence which enables an expert in the
flints of various beds and horizons, which he is continually handling, to distinguish the
exact locality and horizon from which each comes, is not easy to describe in words,
It is not, in fact, possible to enable a reader to recognise such characters by
description ; specimens must be seen and compared. Mr. Morr has this experience
and capacity, so also have the members of the Committee of the East Anglian
Prehistoric Society who drew up the report accepting Mr. Morr’s conclusions. To
some extent, I have this knowledge myself, and I do not hesitate to associate
certain of Mr. Morr’s worked flints with the unworked flints occurring in the
bone-bed at the localities of Bolton and Laughlin’s pit, and at the Thorington Hall
pit, where they were obtained by workmen employed to dig for them in the
basement bed of the Red Crag. Of other specimens and localities I am not able to
speak, but I fully accept, as do such experts as Dr. ALLEN SturGE, Colonel
Unprrwoop, and Miss Layarp, Mr. Morr’s judgment in such cases as we have
not personally examined. Mr. Morr had no hesitation in pronouncing the little
hooked flint implement (fig. 6) to be not Sub-Crag, but Mid-Glacial, in origin,