the application of varnish had been repeated, so that three coats had been given in
many instances, but the larvae had been violent whenever the process was repeated.
Again, it seemed possible that if the varnish had not been removed it might have
been made thin and partially transparent over the ocelli, most of which project
considerably. In spite of these arguments I did not see how my repeated and careful
application of varnish could have failed in all cases; I did not expect to find the
blinded larvee as dark as those exposed to black surfaces, but I did expect that they
would not be equally brilliant with normal larvee when both were exposed to white
or gilt surfaces, that is, if the ocelli represented the desired terminal organs. But the
above considerations made it very desirable to test the ocelli in some other way. I
had long thought of another experiment, in which the head and the body of a larva
were to be exposed respectively to two different colours, producing the most opposite
effects, but the difficulty was in the mode of application. In fact, this difficulty
seemed insuperable for Stages I. and II. of the preparatory period, but perhaps might
be overcome with a little contrivance for Stage ITJ., in which the larva rests suspended.
It’ was, however, first necessary to decide whether the larva is sensitive to colour
during this stage. Previous experiments (V., B.; VI., C.; VIL, B.) had not thrown
much light on the question, but the numbers employed had been insufficient. I
therefore determined to devote the majority of the larve of this series to the settle-
ment of this question, It seemed that a decisive answer could be best obtained by
the transference of larvee in sufficient numbers at the beginning of Stage III. from a
colour to which they had been up to that time exposed into one which tended to
produce the most opposite effect. Quite apart from the chief object to be served by
the experiment, 7.¢., the possible introduction of further experiments, the results
would be most interesting on their own account in the further light which would be