they are under pressure is as much a psychological obsession as that spiral growth
effects are always due to torsion. As already indicated, the ultimate lobation of
the outer envelope, as also its great wing extension and the two transverse teeth
exaggerated in the seed, are but the result of the free margins growing in the
open crevice left between the scales as the growing ovules push them apart. In
any aggregated mass of members, if growth be uniform throughout the mass,
there need be no pressure at all, or all the contact pressures may be equally
distributed. Pressures are only set up when one member grows faster than another ;
and such pressures require to be fully established before any theory can be based on
them. In the case of Welwitschia, the pressure is set up not so much by the cone-
scales against the flowers, as by the flowers growing at the expense of the cone-scales.
The nucellus retains its circular section very fairly; the scales are forced apart and
squeezed, and the effect of the ovule pressure is most obviously seen in the fact that
if all the ovules press equally they would make accurate ridge-lines on the cone.
But, by slipping over each other slightly, they make mutual adjustments, as seen
in longitudinal section along the orthostichy lines, which cuts the superposed
ovules differently. Hence the sectional elevation (fig. 2) is slightly diagramatised,
and successive scales pushed slightly more open than they should be, so that the
fitting of the parts is not absolutely accurate as in nature. That is to say, the
greatest pressure is exerted along the orthostichy lines by the flowers pressing
against their predecessors, in default of sufficient extension in the main axis.
Actual measurements give a clear idea of the amount of deformation from circular
section. In the functional stage the lower part of the nucellus, enclosing the
endosperm at its broadest, is about 2°1 mm., tangentially, by 1°2 mm. in the
radial direction, a very considerable flattening; the enclosed prothallus being