
decided.

Those who have worked at the madreporic currents do not seem to have differentiated particularly in
the adult between the function of the stone-canal ciliation and that of the pore-canal system and of the
axial sinus. On the whole, there has been agreement that the currents are in an oral direction, though
Harroe (41) adduced various arguments to the contrary, and HAMANN (39, p. 731) thought that the
cilia on those surfaces within the stone canal which are lined by low epithelium (see p. 246) might act
aborally, while various authors have referred to the presence of corpuscles within channels belonging to
the pore-canal system, apparently in course of being swept out therefrom. Among those who speak
for oralward currents are Lupwic (53, 54), Prouno (76), Cuénor (12), and MacBripe (55). Cuknor
notes that the stone canal is almost always free from corpuscles though these may be present abundantly
in the rest of the hydrocele (11, pp. 317-8), but he lays stress on the fact that, in the uninjured starfish,
inward currents are exceedingly difficult to observe and probably only occur intermittently. He also
calls attention to the cleaning action of the superficial madreporic cilia, the probable passage of fluid from
axial sinus into the stone canal, and the influence of the stone-canal ciliation on pressure in the water
vascular system. Lupwia (53, pp. 378-9) holds that the pore-canals as well as the stone canal in
echinoderms generally have an inward ciliation, bringing evidence as regards the pore-canals from
observed currents in the internal madreporite of Holothurians, the openings on the oral surface of the
dises of Crinoids, and the hydropores of Auricularia larve. He does not seem, however, to have
investigated the pore-canal system by itself in Asterids and Echinids. Bury (8, p. 421) has stated that
he saw evidence of outward ciliary action in the hydroporic canals of Echinid plutei, Bipinnaria,
Auricularia, and Tornaria. MacBripr (55, p. 381) found that suspended particles passed into the pore
canal of Amphiura squamata and were in some cases apparently ingested by the cells lining it. He lays
stress also on the pressure-maintaining function of the stone-canal ciliation.