regions will be distinguished, namely, in front the portion which unites with the
paries nasi will be called the commisswra spheno-ethmoidalis (figs. 4 and 5, c.s.e),-
behind this the portion giving off the downwardly projecting processus orbitonasalis
(pro.n.o.) is named the ala orbitalis (a.0.) ; posterior to this is the commissura orbito-
parietalis (c.o.p.), connecting the ala orbitalis with the lamina supracapsularis (1.s.),
the posterior portion of the bar which unites with the dorsal edge of the auditory
capsules. It should be emphasised that the lamina supracapsularis does not fuse
with the pars lateralis, but is still separated therefrom by a suture. This is readily
seen in the sections but does not show very obviously in the model, as the suture is
inconspicuous. However, in the latter stages the lamina merges imperceptibly into
the cartilage of the pars lateralis, lending support to the contention that the orbito-
sphenoidal cartilage assists in the formation of the superior portion of the occipital
ring. Specialattention might be drawn to the fact that in Perameles the coalescence
of these cartilages synchronises with the roofing over of the foramen magnum.

In the presphenoidal region the ala orbitalis sends down towards the mid-ventral
line a thin cartilaginous flap, the processus orbitonasalis (proc.o.n., figs. 4 and 5),
In this foetus, head length 6 mm., the flap is very fragile and does not reach the
base of the skull. In Stage IV, head length 11-0 mm., however, it is much stronger
and joins the cranial keel (figs. 12 and 13); in this way it completes a foramen in
the wall of the skull. No structures pass through this foramen, but it is found
also in early stages of Ornithorhynchus and Echidna, and is seen in Broom’s
reconstructions of the chondrocrania of Trichosurus and Dasyurus. GAuPP calls
it the fissura orbitonasalis (f.0.n.), and it is noteworthy that its posterior limiting
bar is here less developed than in the Prototheria or in T'richosurus.