nodes or ganglia together. The ganglia themselves are permitted to increase in size,
by their position, and by their connexion with the splanchnic branches of the spinal
nerves. The commissures, at first cellular, become fibro-cellular, and afterwards
fibrous, owing to the admixture of spinal fibres, and apparently also to the con-
version into fibres of the criginal cells of the cord. By the formation and gradual
constriction of the commissures the ganglia are made still more definite.

This process of ganglion formation, due primarily to these two causes, can be followed
in older embryos ; but as the parts gradually attain their adult form the regularity of
alternate swelling and constriction is not so evident. As the ganglia become defined
in form, their position tends to become irregular. While one may lie in the interval
between two vertebra, the next may be seen opposite the vertebra itself. Again, two
ganglia may be co-terminous, not by fusion, but from the fact that separation is
incomplete. This arrangement is shown in Plate 29, fig. 18, taken from a sagittal
section of a Rat embryo at about 22 days. The sympathetic cord (Sy.) is figured in
the region of the diaphragm (Di.), just beyond the point at which the stream of cells
arises for the formation of the semilunar ganglion (S.G@.) and solar plexus (Sol.). The
cord is constricted at intervals, so as to form ganglia and commissures, both of which
are irregular, and bear, as may be seen, no definite relation to the vertebral
segments (V.S.) or intercostal vessels (Jnt.). The commissures are, for the most
part, fibro-cellular ; in some instances they are mainly fibrous; in others there are
groups of cells enclosed aniong the fibres: while in others again there are compara-
tively few fibres, so that the ganglia are practically fused together. The cord is here
represented in its greatest thickness; in sections on either side the irregularity of
the ganglia (into which splanchnic brauches can be traced) is much more marked.