genus of 20 species may be reduced to a genus of 5 species, a genus of 10 species to a
genus of 2, and so on. Some—possibly many—genera will be killed off outright. In
the limit, if the cataclysm be very severe, most genera will be killed out entirely and no
genera will be left with more than a single species. On the passing of such a cataclysm
of the utmost possible severity and the restoration of conditions favourable to life, evolu-
tion will start again de novo, but from an initial number of Ny monotypic genera instead
of a single one. When, long ages after, the biological statistician examines the frequency
distribution for sizes of genus in the group evolved from the survivors of the cataclysm,
he will therefore find, as we have found, a number of primordial genera Ny in excess
of unity: and further he will have to remember that the time z will be measured,
not from the origin of the group, but from the passing of the cataclysm.

In fact, of course, we must expect matters to be far more complex even than this.
The action of a “cataclysm” of less than limiting severity might be represented, in
highly simplified terms, somewhat as follows. For any species the chance of survival
is p, of destruction g (p+q=1). The chance of 0, 1, 2, . . . » species surviving out
of a genus of m species will then be given by the successive terms of (q +p)". Given the
pre-cataclysmic distribution and the value of p, it will then be possible, though a lengthy
piece of work, to calculate the post-cataclysmic distribution. It is desirable to carry
out such a test on assumed data to see whether, if the pre-cataclysmic distribution be
of the form above derived, the post-cataclysmic distribution will or will not also be
closely fitted by the same formula, and, if it is closely fitted, what is the effect on the
constants. It is evident that the distribution will remain of the same general form to
the eye, with a maximum frequency for the monotypics, and I am inclined to suspect
that it may be fairly closely of the same mathematical form, but have not yet carried