modern anatomical work is attached to the occurrence and distribution of resin canals.
It is apparent in classification, identification, and, above all, in discussions of phylogeny.
For example, the Pinew are said to be distinguished by the normal occurrence of resin
canals throughout the secondary wood, the Abietez by their occurrence practically only
in response to wounding. ‘The canals in the latter case are considered by some as
being “‘ revived ” by injury and by others as in the process of acquirement. However,
important though resin canals undoubtedly are, too little is known with regard to them
to warrant many of the prevailing conclusions. There has been no systematic study of
their origin and distribution, even ina single species. It was to make a beginning towards
the filling in of this gap in our knowledge that the present study was undertaken.

The spruce was chosen partly because of the abundance of local material, both in
nurseries and in the wild state. In fact, although nursery stock was ultimately made
use of to perhaps a greater extent than the material from the woods, the study could
probably not have been completed on this material alone, so obscure did the principle
underlying the distribution of the resin canals seem when viewed merely from a study
of nursery plants. There were, however, additional reasons of a scientific nature for
the selection of the genus Picea. ‘The resin canals, occurring apparently normally in
the wood, are not nearly so abundant as they are in the pines, and are more irregular
in distribution. ‘Two low-power photographs have been made to illustrate these points-
In Picea sometimes resin canals are completely lacking in an annual ring, whereas in
the adjacent area they are fairly abundant (Plate 8, Photo. 1), but not so numerous nor
so evenly distributed as they are in the pine, where every ring of the section shows
several (Photo. 2) ; nor is their radial distribution in the year’s growth uniform, They
occur at various regions in either spring or summer wood, even to the very borders of