links are the local neurones whose cell-bodies compose the myenteric ganglia. The cell-
bodies of the post-ganglionic neurones associated with the splanchnic nerves are situated
in the coeliac, or other extra-intestinal, sympathetic ganglia.” JoHnson, however,
assumes that almost the entire intraganglionic (his “ intercellular ’’) plexus is derived
from vagal fibres, whereas, in my view, only a very small proportion of the fibres forming
this plexus are vagal, the majority being the processes of the local ganglion cells. More-
over, the experiment which he quotes in support of the view that the sympathetic fibres
have no relation to the enteric nerve cells does not elucidate the problem. His account
of the experiment is as follows :—*‘ The splanchnic nerves were divided just proximal to
the cceliac plexus. Sections of the gut after degeneration of the nerves show no appreci-
able change in the appearance of the myenteric plexus, and there is no evidence to indicate
that the splanchnics take any part in the formation of the intercellular plexus.” JOHNSON
seems to have overlooked the fact that in dividing the splanchnic nerves proximal
to the coeliac ganglion, he was cutting out only the preganglionic fibres of the sympathetic
system, and that the post-ganglionic fibres, being still in connection with their cells of
origin, would show no sign of degeneration.

According to my observations, the sympathetic inflow has little or no connection with
the ganglia of the enteric plexuses. The fibres enter the gut-wall in close connection
with the adventitia of the larger vessels in which many of them terminate (fig. 20), others
form a plexus with free endings in the sub-serous coat and are probably chiefly sensory
in function. Still other fibres penetrate the longitudinal muscle coat and form a delicate
varicose plexus, immediately internal to the myenteric plexus (i.e., on the outer surface
of the circular muscle coat). Fibres from this plexus join the “ intramuscular plexus,”
formed by processes of the cells in the myenteric plexus, and probably terminate like