veronica (3), S. radicale (12), or Ligniera junci (7) (8) (9). In our cultures of the spores
of P. brassice no further development of the swarm spores was observed, and after a
culture had been kept for four or five days all the swarm spores were found to be dead.
(c) Infection of a fresh host plant by the swarm spores.—In order to investigate the
very early stages in the.infection of Crucifers by the swarm spores of P. brassice, cabbage
seed was sown in pots of heavily-infected soil. These were kept at room temperature
under bell-jars, and the seedlings examined daily from the time they appeared above
the soil. The first stage observed in living preparations was that small spherical bodies
were found lying in the tips of some of the root hairs in seedlings six or seven days old.
These times were reckoned from when the seed was sown; the plants were then about
an inch above the soil. These bodies were more or less spherical and they possessed no
flagellum, but in the centre of each was a nucleus with a well-marked central karyosome
(see Plate 21, fig. 5). The nucleus was, in fact, identical with that found in plasmodia.
These bodies had the power of slow amceboid movement, and were able in this way to
travel up the root hair. Root hairs were not, as a rule, attacked until they had
attained about a third of their mature length. The actual penetration was not seen,
but many actively motile swarm spores were found in association with the root hairs.
These uninucleate swarm spores measure from 2-5 p to 3-5 » in diameter. That is
to say, they are approximately the same size as the spores from which they were derived.
For this reason we are definitely of the opinion that no fusion has taken place between
the time they emerged from the spores in the soil and their appearance in the root
hairs of the first host plant. The young swarm spore now migrates further down the
root hair, and there the nucleus divides, and a small plasmodium is formed (see Plate 21,
fig. 6). A mature plasmodium may possess up to thirty nuclei at this stage. Usually
as a result of this development the root hair swells out, though as a general rule it is the