Pieris are easy to follow, but the finer details are more difficult to establish. In the
stage in which the mesoderm has just been enclosed by the lateral plates of ectoderm,
and while that mesoderm is still piled up into a heap in the middle line, the lateral
plates, now joined in the middle line to form the ectoderm, consist of a simple columnar
epithelium with nuclei of more or less the same size (fig. 23, Plate 4). _A little later the
embryo has increased considerably in width, the mesoderm has spread out to the sides
preparatory to forming mesodermal somites, and the gastrulation furrow so prominent
before has nearly disappeared (fig. 24). ‘To each side of the middle line a great change
has taken place, certain cells have enlarged greatly and taken up a position on the inner
side of the germ band against the mesoderm. The outer ends of these cells may still
remain inserted between the remaining cells of the ectoderm, indicating their origin.
The large cells, of which there are at first three rows on each side, are sharply distin-
guished from the remainder by the fact of their paler-staining cytoplasm and their large
vesicular, nearly spherical, nuclei (fig. 24). This is the first step in the differentiation
of the ventral nerve cord, and at the stage reached we have recorded the segregation of
lateral rows of neuroblasts from the outer smaller dermatoblasts of the covering
ectoderm.

Though these lateral neuroblasts play a major part in forming the ventral nerve
cord, certain cells which lie between the two lateral neuroblast tracks are also neurogenic,
viz., those of the median cord. We therefore have to consider the fate of cells in the
lateral and median cords. With the formation of neuroblasts and their sharp delimita-
tion from the dermatoblasts, a deep median invagination develops between the lateral
cords, carrying the median cord more deeply into the yolk. Hitherto, the lateral cord
neuroblasts of either side formed a more or less flat plate of cells in the horizontal plane,