them, that run varying distances up and down the tube and that in consequence of the
tubal movements are undergoing continual change. When these compartments are
measured they are found to be almost always a little too small for the free passage of
the egg. The minimum diameter of the rabbit egg is about 0-12 millimetres (PAINTER,
1928; Harrman, 1929; CasTie and Grecory, 1929). This may be considerably
increased by the presence of follicular cells as the egg enters the tube, or by the addition
of albumen as it passes through that structure. If, however, a circle of the minimum
size of the egg is drawn to scale on a camera outline of a transverse section of the tube
(fig. 7), it will be evident at once that the egg cannot pass through the tube without
pressing the tubal folds slightly away from one another, a process that will bring the
surface of the egg into such intimate contact with the cilia of the tube as to place these
bodies in a most advantageous position for communicating motion to the egg. In
fact, the tube possesses a structure which in form and proportions is most admirably
adapted to the propulsion of the egg by cilia.

It is a common experience of those who have worked much with cilia, that when these
effectors are being tested at about the limit of their capacity, a small amount of extraneous
motion, like a slight vibration, will enable them to continue to transport an object which
otherwise might come to a standstill. Such slight movements disengage the moving
object from momentary hindrances and thus facilitate its transportation. It is quite
probable that the segmental movements of the tube are of importance in this respect in
helping the egg onward and thus aid to dislodge it from time to time at places in the
tube where it might otherwise be stranded temporarily. No one would deny that the
peristalsis of the tube must be a factor of the greatest importance in the propulsion
of the egg, but in my opinion the tubal cilia play a part in this operation quite as signifi-