matic). u.emb., embryo of upper epiblast. l.emb., lower embryo and induced embryo. At., heart.

at intervals this piece of ectoderm becomes thickened and appears as if it were a young neural plate. The
poor development of this plate is perhaps due to the extensive degeneration which has gone on in this
region. Rather further along the series of sections, the right heart rudiment appears first as a mesodermal
sac lined by the endocardium. Its place of origin is obscure. At about this level the normal upper neural
tube becomes broken by the disappearance of part of the floor, and a little later it almost entirely vanishes.
The upper induced neural tube, which soon appears, is, however, probably just continuous with the
anterior end of the normal upper tube. The anterior part of the normal lower tube is extensively degen-
erated but quite recognisable. The middle part is well seen in such a section as that shown in fig. 50,
Plate 26, and it continues to be strongly marked till it vanishes posteriorly. The upper induced set of folds,
which are well developed anteriorly, become posteriorly very thin and flat and the meagreness of their
appearance is increased by the fact that they are obliquely cut, fig. 51, Plate 26.

This specimen, then, shows parts of four sets of neural folds, namely, the normal upper folds which
appear first and induce a somewhat spasmodic appearance of an induced set of folds in the lower ectoderm
and the normal lower folds which have induced a fourth set in the upper ectoderm.

At about the same level as the induced upper embryo, a sac of mesoderm appears on the left; no beating
structure was observed in the living specimen on this side, but this mesodermal sac is very probably the
left heart rudiment.

350. The blastoderms were 183 hours old at operation. The culture was arranged so that the posterior
parts of the primitive streaks crossed one another, while the anterior part diverged at an angle of about
60°. In the sections at least three neural plates can be distinguished, but the normal upper plate and