A, equestris. Excised skin of this animal placed in physiological salt solution continued
to respond for three hours to weak and strong light by pallor and darkening respectively.
A curious fact upon which Haptery failed to comment was that whereas the response
times of whole animals were as quoted above, the times for excised skin were: green
to brown 30-40 secs., brown to green 12-15 secs. Not only are these times much shorter,
but their relation to each other is reversed. In whole animals melanophore expansion
takes place much more rapidly than contraction, in excised skin contraction is the
more rapid. Still more puzzling are the data on the effect of temperature on the excised
skin of this species, SmrrH (1929). We have already referred to this work as constituting
the only clear evidence for the expansion of reptilian melanophores at low temperatures
under conditions of illumination that promote melanophore contraction. Now if in
this species the proximal position of the pigment is the resting (7.e., relaxed) state of
the melanophore, as must be inferred from the fact that the denervated skin is green
in the absence of photic stimulation, it appears from Smrrx’s data that heat induces
@ state of relaxation, and cold promotes the opposite state (excitation). It is not
unreasonable to assume, on purely theoretical grounds, that an independent effector
which is found to respond to photic and thermal stimulation, should respond to both
kinds of stimuli in the same way. With the melanophores of A. equestris this is
apparently not so; they expand in light and are contracted by heat. In the absence
of other experimental data it is difficult to suggest an explanation. The experiment
with the dorso-lateral preparation (p. 47), if carried out on these species, would go
far towards elucidating the main difficulties that at present exist.

In view of the fact that all reptiles whose pigmentary responses have been physio-
logically investigated belong to one class, namely, the Lacertilia, and since, further,