quiet, and a fall in temperature thereby occurring; but the thermometer again placed on the right
popliteal space registered 103°°6, showing that there was a real difference in the temperature of the two
limbs, which could only be accounted for by a diminished heat production on the paralyzed side. Sensi-
bility to the heat test same as before. Knee-jerks present on both sides.

10th day.—Collection of fluid at the seat of the injury evacuated. Movement has come back to a
slight extent in the left (paralyzed) limb.

20th day.—Sensibility tested by dipping the feet in hot water; right foot withdrawn after 14 seconds ;
left foot after 3 seconds, so that there is still some delay. Left knee-jerk markedly exaggerated.
Temperature, right popliteal space, 103°8; left popliteal space, 101°°8; surface temperature of right
foot, 86°; left foot, 80°: that is to say, the skin temperature on the paralyzed side is now lower than
on the non-paralyzed, no doubt due to the fact that the vaso-motor paralysis has passed off, for the
plantar surface of the foot is now neither swollen nor dry. The animal is frequently seen to flex both
hip, knee, and ankle on the paralyzed side. It was put into the large cage to run about.

40th day.—Temperature, right popliteal space, 103°; left popliteal space, 102°°8. Muscles not very
wasted ; the animal runs about all over the cage; responds to hot water test on both sides.*

46th day.—The animal was etherised. The right motor area stimulated in the same manner as the
last. With a moderate current arm movements readily obtained; leg, not at all. By increasing the
strength of the stimulus, so that the current was very strong, flexion of leg at knee, and occasional
movements of ankle, toes, and hallux obtained, and sometimes bilateral movements of legs. Stimu-
lation of left motor area, with a moderate current, produced the usual movements of arm and leg very
readily ; with a very strong current, occasional movements of leg of the same side. The animal was