Elasmobranch spines; and a few spines referred to the form genus Ctenacanthus, whose
relationships are uncertain. In addition there are teeth referred to Diplodus which may
be the Acanthodian Doliodus, and two individual teeth referred perhaps correctly to
Cladodus but probably incapable of real determination. The Lower Devonian fish
remains sometimes regarded as Elasmobranchs are the spines Onchus, Gyracanthus,
Homacanthus, Pinnacanthus, Helenacanthus and Bulbacanthus, of which the first three may
well be Acanthodians whilst the remainder present no resemblance to any Elasmo-
branch structure. It thus follows that the earliest known Elasmobranchs are from the
Upper Devonian, the group appearing much later than the Osteichthyes.

The early history of the Elasmobranchs though little known was clearly complex ;
an attempt to discuss it must be founded on the fin structure. Cladoselache is a fish
apart, characterized by the fact that all the fins, both median and paired, are supported
by a single series of parallel radials which extend outward very nearly to theiremargins
and leave unsupported only avery small expanse of fin web, strengthened by ceratotrichia
which have not been preserved. All the fins are attached to the body by a very long *
base, but some concentration of the base of the fin is shown by the occurrence of
certain radials which extend in only half-way to the base, and by a fusion of the more
posterior basal cartilages of the pectoral fin, each anterior basal supporting its own
radial. There are no fin spines. Ctenacanthus clarki, a contemporary of Cladoselache, is
remarkable because it possesses at least one dorsal fin spine. The pectoral fin resembles
that of Cladoselache in the long extension of its radials all of which extend inward to the
base so that there is no evidence of concentration. The fin was interpreted by BasHrorD
Dean as showing a continuous series of basals, one to each radial, but this reading of
its structure leaves unexplained the apparent basals attached to the misplaced