parenchyma is derived from peripheral elements of the incipient vascular tissue exposed to
the air by the downward incisions. A fundamental question therefore relates to the
differentiation of this parenchyma.

In attempting to interpret the varied configuration of fern steles in terms of causal factors
the first essential is to acquire an adequate knowledge of the facts of development in the
growing region. Very little, indeed, is known of the factors which are causally related to
the initial differentiation of vascular tissue, the absence of such knowledge being a serious
obstacle to further progress. Lang (1915) suggested that among these factors may be
included (i) functional stimuli, (ii) the inductive influence of the older differentiated parts
on the developing region, or (iii) formative stimuli of unknown nature proceeding from the
developing region. The relation of functional stimuli to morphogenetic processes is a prob-
lem of very great difficulty: it may be that no such direct relationship does, in fact, exist.
In the normal development the second factor suggested by Lang—the inductive influence
of older, preformed parts—may well be of considerable importance. This view, which has
had many adherents, may now be considered in the light of the data given here. In the
experimental materials the vascular tissue leading to the apical meristem from below is
completely severed. Nevertheless, the thin layer of incipient vascular tissue which lies
immediately below the apical meristem undergoes further development and becomes fully
differentiated into phloem, xylem, etc. New vascular tissue is also developed in the isolated
terminal region, and a solenostelic and dictyostelic vascular system is eventually developed.
In short, vascular tissues are formed notwithstanding the fact that there is no organic
connexion with the mature vascular tissue below, i.e. the influence of the older preformed
tissues has been precluded. Such observations and the configuration of the pseudo-dicho-
tomous specimens which have been described and illustrated give strong support to Lang’s