in figure 25, consist of well-developed medullated protosteles or of solenosteles with a con-
spicuous pith. In serial sections each of these buds can be traced throughout its length
from the point of its confluence with the shoot stele below to its distal region. Thus in
figure 26 (and figure 93, plate 12) bud 4, is seen near its point of emergence from the shoot,
two leaf-gaps being present. Lower down the structural arrangements shown in figures 27-30
can be observed, the xylem of the bud stele becoming incompletely confluent with that of
the shoot stele in the region of conjunction of two meristeles (figure 29). Figure 27 (and
figure 94, plate 12) at a lower level, show a strand of bud xylem lying alongside the xylem
of the conjoined meristeles, and in figure 28, still lower down, the bud stele is beginning
to fade out. Observations such as these, which have been repeated in many different buds,
confirm an earlier finding that where bud development is induced some distance away
from the shoot apex, the junction of bud stele and shoot stele tends to be incomplete or
may not be effected at all (Wardlaw 19434, 6). It is difficult to see how such facts can
be explained other than in terms of a basipetal initial differentiation of vascular tissue
in the sense defined by Wardlaw (1944).

During the normal development, the bud stele may become conjoined not only with the
shoot stele but also with a strand of the leaf-trace. Buds of D. filix-mas, though axillary in
origin (Wardlaw 19434), are typically associated with the leaf-traces only. Figure 31 (and
figure 91, plate 12) show a large solenostelic bud in longitudinal median section: its stele is
conjoined both with a meristele and a leaf-trace, but in neither instance is there a confluence
of the xylem strands. This can be ascertained by following the serial sections upwards and
downwards. Figure 32 (and figure 92, plate 12) illustrate the relation of bud stele to
meristele lower down in the shoot where the former is beginning to fade out. These facts
again support the hypothesis of a basipetal development of bud vascular tissue. In figures 29