
the intestinal mucosa. The less active tissues responded slowly to oestrogen stimulation, while the
more active tissues responded promptly and fully. The most active tissues examined proved to be
the proliferating centres of the intestinal lymph nodules, which maintained a maximum rate
of cell division even when, as on the first day of dioestrus, the oestrogen blood content was at a
minimum.

The results obtained indicate the existence of mitosis inhibitors. First, there is the force, termed
the cell inertia, which must be overcome before any tissue can react by cell division to the presence
of an oestrogen. In the case of less active tissues the cell inertia is great, and is overcome only after
the oestrogen has exerted its influence for several days, but in the more active tissues the cell inertia.
is slight, and is rapidly overcome by relatively small increases in the oestrogen blood content. The
existence of a second mitosis inhibitor, termed the mitosis depressor, is shown by the fact that any
sharp rise in mitotic activity is quickly brought under control, so that mitosis is again reduced to a
minimum. With the continued presence of the stimulating oestrogen, there is, after a short interval,
a second rise in mitotic activity which, like the first, is rapidly brought under control and in turn
eliminated. Thus, even in the continued presence of oestrogen stimulation, mitotic activity proceeds
in waves. However, an exception to the rule is furnished by the proliferating centres of the in-
testinal lymph nodules where it appears that both the mitosis-controlling forces are lacking, so
that a maximum rate of cell division is always maintained.

It was discovered that, during wound healing, the mitosis rate rises sharply to an abnormally high
maximum, and that it does this quite irrespective of the oestrous cycle and of injections of oestrone.
It is evident, therefore, that the mitotic activity associated with wound healing is under the control
of some special mechanism, and evidence is summarized which indicates that one of the functions