in the whole body. It follows incidentally that all organs have the potentiality of enlarge-
ment in relation to the sexual processes as secondary sexual characters or even as accessory
sexual organs. It must have been in such a manner that the mammary gland was evolved.

It is evident from the study of the mouse that the degrees of response of the various body
organs to oestrogen stimulation vary widely. Thus, while the connective tissues show only
a slight reaction to the presence of oestrogenic hormones, tissue such as the epidermis show
a marked response. Even higher responses are seen in the linings of the uterus, vagina,
and alimentary canal, and the highest of all in the lymph nodule centres. The degree of
reaction appears to depend on the needs of the various tissues for cell replacement rather
than on the degree of their differentiation. In this way, although most glands have only
a low rate of cell replacement, the sebaceous gland shows relatively great mitotic activity
due to the fact that, being of the holocrine type, its cells are destroyed when releasing their
secretory products and must, therefore, be constantly renewed. The general conclusion may
be reached that the muscles, the connective tissues, and the protected body organs need
relatively little cell replacement and so react only slightly to oestrogen stimulation, while
the epithelia covering the body surfaces, whether external on the skin or internal throughout
the alimentary canal and the Miillerian duct system, require frequent cell replacement
and consequently show a rapid and pronounced reaction to any increase in oestrogen blood
content. The extreme mitotic activity of the proliferating centres of the intestinal lymph
nodules is apparently due to the necessity for a constant supply of large numbers of
lymphocytes.

The results obtained show clearly the existence of mitosis inhibitors, and indicate the
fact that there is a constantly varying interaction between them and the stimulation exerted