furnished by the two peculiar cases which have been described of male behaviour by the
female bird at this time of the year. Such unusual behaviour was first described in the case
of the robin (Lack 1939). Song and the staking out of territories, which are defended against
intruders, are male characteristics in this species, but in autumn many females also behave
in this manner. This abnormal behaviour breaks down about December or January when
the females enter the territories of the males and pairing takes place. In the starling, song
is also characteristic of the male over the greater part of the year, but in autumn some females
also sing. It has been shown that this male-like behaviour is probably due to the secretion
by the ovaries of male sex hormone (Bullough & Carrick 1940). This secretion also results
in the change of colour of the beak to yellow, a feature which is really a male secondary
sexual character (Witschi & Miller 1938). The degree of maleness, which is probably merely
an expression of the amount of male sex hormone produced, varies considerably in different
females, a fact which is shown in two ways. In some females the beak begins to turn yellow
early (October) and the change proceeds rapidly, but in others the beak may still be
entirely dark at the beginning of January. Similarly, some females, which in all cases had
partly yellow beaks, sing hard while others appear not to sing at all. As in the robin, this
abnormal behaviour ceases about December when it is superseded by typical female
behaviour. The continued yellow colour of the beak is evidence, however, that the secretion
by the ovaries of male sex hormone is actively continuing. A similar effect, the induction
of song in normally quiet female birds, has been caused experimentally by Leonard (1939)
and Shoemaker (1939). They injected female canaries (Serinus c. canarius L.) with male sex
hormone, and so induced them to produce typical male song. Shoemaker also demonstrated
that sex hormones are probably the physical basis of social dominance within the flock.
In a group of six birds the ‘peck order’ was worked out, and the three birds of the lowest
grades were injected with male hormone. Besides singing, these birds rose to the top of