On the other hand, the main swinging out of the body is the work of the attrahens muscle,
and one of the first effects of the contraction of this muscle will be to pull the oral cone
forwards and press it on to the adductor scutorum. Not only will it bring the cone up
against this muscle, but will press it into the latter (figure 7). In fact, from the arrangement
and size of the various parts of the body I do not think it possible for the body to be
extruded without this taking place. The adductor scutorum during this phase will be
relaxed and therefore soft, and so will offer little resistance to such a process. Now, the
main result of this will be that as long as the body is being thrown out, the region between
the oral cone and the adductor muscle will be squeezed out of existence, and in this region
is the blood pump. Thus, one piece of morphological evidence—the arrangement of the
dorsal longitudinal muscles—suggests that the blood pump will be filled, while another,
the disposition of the attrahens muscle, indicates that it will be emptied at the beginning
of the casting movement. What actually happens can, I think, be deduced from the fact
that in a barnacle, when casting commences, it is not the body that is extruded first of all,
but the cirri. Now the cirri are extruded by being distended, and this distension is an
erection brought about by the contraction of the dorsal longitudinal series. We can
conclude, therefore, that at the commencement of each cast of the body the dorsal muscles
contract first and so distend, not only the cirri, but the blood pump. Only later does the
attrahens muscle contract, and, since the contraction of the attrahens muscles tends to
bring about the emptying of the blood pump, I think it legitimate to deduce that the blood
pump muscles will contract at the same time as the attrahens.

I have previously mentioned (p. 119) that there is nothing structural that can be in-
terpreted as a valve between the prosoma and the rostral sinus and hence blood pump.
In figure 13 I have drawn a reconstruction of this region. It represents a slice through