stituting the ‘Grenzhorizont’. This ‘ Vorlaufstorf’ lies between the old humified Sphagnum
peat and the upper fresh Sphagnum peat: it represents a stage of flooding of the old dried-out
surfaces of the raised bogs, and of infra-aquatic peat formation in extensive pools upon the
waterlogged surface. As seen on the Luneberger Heide, it consists of greasy grey muds of
floating Sphagna and of mats of the papery rhizomes of Scheuchzeria palustris, and it is
succeeded by re-establishment of the tussock-building Sphagna which recreate the Re-
generation-Complex of active raised-bog vegetation. It is the lower surface of the infra-
aquatic peat which constitutes the Boundary Horizon, and if the flooding is a slow and
progressive process it is evident that the precursor peat will form soonest in the deep
hollows of the old bog surface and last upon its hummocks. Thus the Boundary Horizon
would be of different date at different places, and Jonas brings forward some pollen-
analysis evidence in support of this. The great importance of Jonas’s interpretation appears
to lie in the fact that it turns attention to the task of recognizing the precise nature of the
change-over in physical conditions and in vegetational cover at the Boundary Horizon.
In particular, it tends to demonstrate that the effect of the climatic deterioration upon the
dried-out bog surface was not a gradual reversal through those communities by which the
bog had built up, but was the initiation of a totally new series of vegetation stages begun
by rapid flooding.

These conclusions are borne upon by Somerset results. In the first place, there can be
no doubt that between the old Sphagnum-Calluna peat and the renewed younger system of
similar but fresher Regeneration-Complex peat there intervenes aquatic peat of one type
or another. In the second place, more especially when eutrophic communities enter, there
is not merely an initial catastrophic flooding but a progression of stages to maximum
flooding and then stages of recovery. Lastly there is here also evidence of certain (although