during the growth of the individual plant.

In the embryonic development, as also in the development of a bud rudiment, the axis
possesses polarity from the outset (Bower 1922) and various physiological gradients are
established. The position of the embryonic or meristematic tissue in relation to supplies of
nutrients, the quantity and quality of such nutrients, and the path of translocation, may be
indicated as factors which are important in the subsequent growth and morphological
development of the meristematic region. For the growth and development of a shoot or
axial structure there must be: (i) a stimulus to growth; (ii) cells in a distal position capable
of sustained meristematic activity; (iii) a source of nutrition in close proximity; or (iv) the
differentiation of a conducting system by which nutrients can be quickly conveyed from
more distant sources to the active meristem; and (v) the progressive development of rigid
structure in the submeristematic region, The shoot, in fact, develops on an accretionary
principle. If the rate of supply of nutrients to the growing region were uniform then,
other things being equal, the resulting shoot would be of cylindrical form. If the rate of
supply of nutrients diminished, for example, as the distance of the apex from the source of
supply increased, the shoot would have an attenuated or tapering form. But if the rate of
supply of nutrients to the meristem were accelerated, it would undergo a progressive
increase in size and the shoot would become an enlarging obconical structure. This ob-
conical development is, in fact, a characteristic feature not only of vascular plants, but of
plants in general (Bower 1922). Qualitative as well as quantitative variations in the supply
of metabolites may also be expected to induce changes in the morphological development.

The general inference to be drawn from the experimental studies described here is that
the shoot type of organization can in the main be referred to non-hereditary factors, i.e. its