(1) The problems of visual acuity by the light-adapted human eye

A problem which has long awaited solution in connexion with the physiology of vision
has been to account in a satisfactory manner for the high acuity of the eye for fine detail.

The resolution of a grating test object, by a microscope, as is well known to manu-
facturing opticians, requires that instrument to possess lenses of fine performance. These
contain as a rule achromatic combinations of carefully figured lenses which have been
adjusted in relative position with the utmost precision. The design of the eye appears
rudimentary in comparison with such lenses, yet practical tests with grating and other test
objects show that this elementary lens system, possessing apparently no chromatic correc-
tion of any kind, and certainly no fluorite-like medium which could impart an apochro-
matic correction, behaves in an almost flawless manner. So good, in fact, is the apparent
definition of the foveal image, that if the lens system of the eye could be removed and an
apochromatic lens, selected for its good performance, could be substituted, it is doubtful
if the possessor of this eye would detect any improvement in his perception of fine detail.
What he would certainly notice would be a very serious deterioration at the periphery of
his visual fields. His original eye lens gave him an angle of view exceeding a right angle
(Hartridge 1919). His new microscopic lens gives him a field of view almost insignificant
in comparison. He now knows for the first time what it feels like to have ‘tubular vision’,
that is, the type of vision produced by looking down a narrow tube. But other more subtle
differences would soon be noticed. His original eye lens adjusted its focus automatically,
and was almost equally good for observing near and distant objects. His new microscopic
lens possesses no such valuable features. It has been designed to work at one fixed distance
between object and eyepiece only, and a small error in this adjustment produces either