on a blue-green background. This and other pairs of black and white objects on coloured
grounds are given in table 74. In the author’s opinion, the stereoscopic effect is more
striking in the case of red and blue-green backgrounds than it is with the other backgrounds
mentioned.

(101) The effects of chromatic difference of magnification on vision

Two visual phenomena are affected: (a) stereoscopic vision, and (4) acuity for fine detail.
With regard to the former, subjects in whom there is positive chromatic stereoscopy owing
to the optical axes being to the nasal side of the visual axes in one or both eyes—and,
according to Tscherning, this is usually the case—see what artists refer to as advancing and
retiring colours: warm colours, such as red, orange and brown, advance, while the cold
colours, blue-green, blue and violet, retire. These facts skilfully used may be very effective
in paintings. The value of this form of stereoscopy lies in the fact that it operates for objects
of all sizes and for objects at all distances from the observer. Normal stereoscopic vision—
increasingly effective the nearer the object to the observer—fails at great distances, owing
to the smallness of the range base provided by the interocular distance. Not so chromatic
stereoscopy, which therefore becomes relatively more valuable the farther the objects are
away. There is, however, this important distinction, that normal stereoscopic vision
operates independently of colour, and therefore for black and white objects, while colour
stereoscopy—as its name implies—is valueless for colourless objects. (b) Its effects on visual
acuity are due to the displacement of the aberration disks of different wave-length, relative
to one another. At the optical axis the disks will be superposed so that their centres coincide,
Away from the optical axis their centres will be displaced sideways, short wave-length disks
being nearer the axial point than long wave-length ones. As the distance from the axial