534 J. E. SMITH ON THE MOTOR NERVOUS SYSTEM

The axons of the central distributory neurons, on reaching the margin of the nerve cord,
enter the lateral perihaemal canal on one or other side of the foot, some axons bifurcating
into branches running to either side. A transverse section of the arm cutting the foot
tangentially shows the course of the axons in the canal (figure 4B, c.dist.ax.). They number
about twenty fibres and are supported throughout their length by non-nervous tissue.
As nearly as can be estimated by measurement against a 9x grid and taking into account
the resolving power of the microscope used (N.A. of objective 1-32) the diameter of the
fibres is not more than 0-5,, a thickness comparable to fibres of the association plexus, the
nerve fibres of coelenterates (Woollard & Harpman 1939) and the smaller fibres of the
balanoglossid plexus (Bullock 1944). Fibres of this size bead very readily (figure 4C), but
the beads are never large enough to be mistaken for cell bodies. The fact that there are
some fifteen to twenty fibres in the canal and that cell bodies are absent makes it almost
certain that there are no additional internuncials interposed between the radial nerve cord
and the lateral motor complex and that the axons of the central distributory neurons
are alone concerned in the preganglionic transmission of excitation through the motor arcs.

The course of the central distributory axons through the lateral perihaemal canal and
their relations to the foot and other structures of the arm is seen more clearly in longitudinal
parasagittal sections of the arm (figure 4D, E and F and reference figure 4A); the distal
face of the foot (nearer the arm tip) is to the left of figure 4D, E and F. Each perihaemal
channel (£, perih.c.lat.) contains two fibre systems (c.dist.ax.), the one which circumscribes
the distal face of the more proximal of two adjacent feet lying in the lower (more oral) part
of the obliquely set sinus. It will be observed that where the axon sytems of the distal and