sponding with the blastoporal area of other species of Peripatopsis, but in these species all
possessing a large blastodermic vesicle, the mouth-anus is formed after immigration from
the blastoporal area is well advanced. In P. capensis the blastopore does not directly become
the mouth-anus, although future work may show that it almost does so, but in the species
with large blastodermic vesicles the mouth-anus arises de novo, even, in P. balfouri where a
transitory blastopore is formed. Kennel (1886) criticized Sedgwick’s interpretation ofhis early
stages with justification, and for Epiperipatus edwardsii he described, doubtless correctly, a
blastoporal area to be present before any mouth or anus (1885), as in some species of Peripa-
topsis. From this area he records immigration ofendoderm which fills the embryonic rudiment
(figure 7, to U here shown, p. 544); a gastric cavity then appears in this solid core of endo-
derm, anda mouth becomes differentiated by a secondary union of ectoderm and endoderm.
The anus arises a little later just in front of the blastoporal area. There appears to be no
reason to doubt these facts so clearly shown by the figures. Epiperipatus thus differs from the
Peripatopsis species with large blastodermic vesicles only in the independent origin of the anus
from the mouth, but this condition resembles the commoner state of affairs in other arthro-
pods (see p. 543). The endoderm in Epiperipatus, being first a solid core while in Peripatopsis it
lines a large hollow vesicle, are variations dependent upon the shape of the embryos.

The size of the mouth-anus varies widely in different species, as also does the stage at
which it divides. In the non-yolky forms the very large size in P. capensis (figures 113 to 116,
plate 41) is paralleled by the yolky Eoperipatus weldoni (Evans 1901), and in both it divides
when somite formation is well advanced, three to five somites being formed, and the first
somite having already become pre-oral in position. In Peripatopsis balfouri and P. sedgwicki
the lumen of the mouth anus is narrower, and division occurs at an earlier stage (see p. 518).
In P. moseleyi the mouth-anus remains closed until after its division, the lips parting when