since it lies above the meeting-point of the edges of the previous leaf, where there is the
most space available in a radial direction; but it cannot account for the greater length of
the kathodic half in normal plants. The following results of the present experiments need
also to be considered. When the centre of P, was removed, the anodic half of J, increased
in length and in three experiments exceeded the kathodic, and this increase varied directly
with the divergence angle J,-/,, which also increased. Again in no. 9, figure 7, the centre
of I, lay exactly over the meeting-point of the flanks of J,, and yet J, was asymmetric, so
that its asymmetry must have been due to something other than the space-filling process.
Lastly, in no. 12, figure 9, in which the spiral reversed, J, was very asymmetric both in
length of halves and in their radial thickness, and the longer flank was the thicker, contrary
to what is found to be the rule in normal plants.

The facts reported concerning J, and J, were shown to agree in the main with the hypo-
thesis proposed, that the factors which inhibit the formation of a leaf centre promote the
extension of a leaf flank round the apex, improbable though this may at first appear.
For in all the J, leaves except one, the longer flank lay on the side of the apex away from
that on which the next leaf centre (/,) was formed and thus on the more strongly inhibited
side, as also it does in a normal plant. The exception was no. 3, in which it appeared that
the centre of P, had been incompletely removed. The most convincing evidence in favour
of the hypothesis proposed is the correlation of the increases in the angle /,-/, and in the
arc of the anodic half of J, (see figure 10). The asymmetry of J, also was shown to support
the hypothesis, but difficulties arose with regard to J; which cannot at present be resolved,
so that the hypothesis must for the present remain provisional. In other spirodistichous
species the sense of the leaf asymmetry still needs to be determined with certainty.
