specificity, on the choice of favourable material. When a protamin is present in the sperm
head, as it is in the salmon, its difference from the histones present in the nuclei of the
somatic cells is so obvious that it provides a clear-cut case of cell specificity which is as
definite as that of the species specificity shown by a comparison of the basic proteins in
salmon and cod sperm heads. On the other hand, as a reference to table 4 will show,
there is little, if any, difference between the analytical results yielded by the histones
from different cell nuclei of the ox. The same analytical methods, however, if applied
alone, would scarcely serve to detect species specificity in salmon and herring protamins.
Hence the results with histones from the ox must not be taken to disprove the existence
of cell specificity in this species; they must be regarded as negative. The histones from the
fowl present a much more favourable case. Those from the spleens and thymus glands,
assuming them to originate from the nuclei of identical cells, would be expected to be the
same, as in fact the analyses indicate, but do not prove, that they are. But the histone
from the erythrocytes is definitely different in compasition. Its arginine content is smaller
than that of the lymphocyte histone. The difference, although not very large, is certainly
outside the limits of experimental error. The result is, moreover, supported by the fact
that in the purification of the total histone isolated from fowl erythrocyte nuclei, which
has an arginine content (table 1) identical with that of purified fowl thymus histone,
a subsidiary histone with a higher arginine content (table 7) is removed from it. Inci-
dentally, this subsidiary histone is absent from thymocyte and lymphocyte nuclei and
hence represents another example of cell specificity among the histones. Cell specificity
of the basic proteins of cell nuclei has thus been demonstrated to occur between the sperm
and somatic cells in the salmon, and between the erythrocytes and the lymphocytes in
the fowl. It also almost certainly exists, as pointed out in the introduction, between the
erythrocytes and the liver cells of the salmon. It is thus probable that it is a general