If it is true that intraspecific competition alone can account for periodic decrease in
snowshoe hares we next have to explain why other species have a cycle of similar length,
roughly in phase with that in the snowshoe hare. It will be sufficient to suggest the
difficulty of explaining this by considering the cycle in ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus).
There seem to be three ways in which synchronous cycles in hares and ruffed grouse might
be explained. Both might be caused by some common factor; one might be dependent on
the other; or the two cycles might be caused independently but be synchronized by
weather. The hypothesis of some common cause of decrease is ruled out if it is true that
intraspecific competition explains the cycle in the hare. It is, in any case, difficult to
imagine any single factor except weather which might be capable of bringing about simul-
taneous decrease in both species; and it is virtually certain that the decrease itself is not
caused by a cycle in weather or other climatic factors. Among other objections to such a
view is the fact that decrease from peak numbers may occur in almost every year in some
part of North America (Clarke 1936; H. Chitty 1950).

The disappearance of one species probably has some effect upon the other. Peak popula-
tions of hares may greatly damage the vegetation; hares and grouse have certain parasites
in common (Green, Evans & Larsen 1943) and, as Lack (1951) has suggested, predators
no doubt take a significant toll of grouse when the hares disappear. Nevertheless, it seems
unlikely that there are enough hares to account for the grouse cycle in all areas where it
occurs, nor is the hare always the first of the two populations to disappear (Clarke 1936).
Moreover, there are certain population changes during a decline in ruffed grouse which are
probably not caused by the disappearance of hares. Clarke (1936) reports a typically
high proportion of old birds in declining populations, and King (1937) states, but without
giving his data, that these older birds furnish the breeding stock responsible for the next