in 1940 in Las Bela State, Baluchistan, came into my hands in May 1951. They are all
in a peculiar ironstone and apparently from one bed, thus throwing welcome additional
light on the age of Bouleiceras. All four are different species. Two are Harpoceratids or
Hildoceratids with strongly tricarinate venters, the ribs only weakly projected at the
shoulders. They could be identified with either Protogrammoceras or Fuciniceras, especially
var. brevispirata Fucini (1900, pl. xii, fig. 4), and a coarser-ribbed form such as his
pl. xi, fig. 7, which Fucini calls Middle Liassic. On the other hand, in Portugal,
where the stratigraphical relations of the Pliensbachian and Toarcian are clear and
the ammonite faunas have been collected in situ (Renz 1912; Meister 1914) an assemblage
of these tricarinate Hildoceratids, including one recorded (wrongly) as H. cornacaldense
Tausch, occurs above the Spinatum Zone (which contains abundant Pleuroceras spinatum
Brug. sp.), and even above Dactylioceras commune. Two of the Baluchistan specimens,
in fact, are indistinguishable from material figured from this bed (Renz 1912, p. 68) by
Meister (1914, pl. xii, figs. 5, 7; pl. xiii, fig. 5). The fourth Baluchistan specimen is a
fragment of a high-whorled, involute Harpoceratid with fine and dense falcoid ribbing and
complex.sutures. In side view it is apparently a Polyplectus, but it differs from the typical
Upper Toarcian forms of that genus by its blunt though very narrow periphery and by
a unicarinate, shouldered venter on the inner whorls. This is probably the form recorded
and figured by Renz (1912, p. 68, pl. vi, fig. 3) as P. discoides from Portugal, where it is
said to mark a special horizon under the Bifrons Zone.

Thus the evidence from Portugal indicates that the Bouleiceras fauna is Lower Toarcian,
and it causes one to accept with reserve the supposedly Domerian date of some of the
Hildoceratids figured by Fucini, which have been perhaps too hastily all assigned an early
date. It seems clear from the Dactylioceras spp. figured by Fucini (1935, pls. viii, ix, x) that