descent (p. 192). The tendency to turn down-wind in excessive wind has less chance to
show itself among low-fliers, for among them it is cut short by settling or by entry into
a slower-moving air layer near the ground.

The optomotor theory in the literature. ‘The optomotor theory of wind orientation has been
discussed by Fraenkel (1932), de Lépiney (1928, 1933), Williams (1930, 1942, 1949), Gunn et al.
(1948) and Waloff & Rainey (1951). None of these authors has, however, quoted observations
with theaccompanying information on both wind speed and height of flight which would help to
decide for or against the optomotor theory. Fraenkel recognized that the necessary evidence was
not yet available. He called, in particular, for information on wind orientation over a uniform
substrate such as the sea (Fraenkel 1932, p. 205). Just this kind of evidence in favour of the
optomotor theory of wind orientation is now available for locusts (pp. 192-193), but at that
time Fraenkel could refer only to the fact that insects were nearly always reported as having
crossed the sea with particular winds, and this kind of circumstantial evidence is also now
available in detailed form for locusts (Waloff 19465; Rainey & Waloff 1948). Fraenkel
emphasized the difficulties facing any alternative theory which assumed a direct orienting
action by the wind, and the absence of any need to create such a theory in view of the
experimental evidence that an optical mechanism was concerned in the analogous case of
orientation against a stream of water (rheotaxis).

De Lépiney (1928, 1933) mentions the hypothesis of wind orientation by optical compensa-
tory responses to the apparent movement of the ground, but dismisses it along with several
others. He does so on three grounds: that the course of the various swarms he saw remained
very much the same for hours and days together while their tracks varied greatly according
to the wind; that the eyes of locusts are not directed downwards; and that on close approach