are provoked into mass movement by excessive temperatures which non-migrants somehow
escape. Both are most active over a period (that is ‘spontaneously’ active, apart from
immediate reactions to more or less sudden temperature changes) at temperatures that are
optimal, not unfavourable for them. Migrants and non-migrants differ rather in the
intensity of their normal activity at moderate temperatures. And if migratory flying is the
normal activity of gregaria locusts when at or near their preferred temperature, which is the
temperature to which their various temperature reactions tend to return them, then those
reactions will also conspire to keep the insects flying ‘automatically’, as Shumakov (1940)
suggested with regard to the marching of hoppers. Since Gunn et al. (1948) recorded body
temperatures ranging up to 41° C at the time of mass stream-away, it may well be that
migrating locusts often have body temperatures within the range where activity has ceased
to be ‘normal’ and has become slightly ‘nervous’, for nervousness begins at about 36° C on
Hussein’s scale. On this scale, in fact, gregarious locusts are somewhat nervous even at the
temperature preferred by them, 40 to 42° C, and if they tend to keep to that temperature not
only in the laboratory but also, as seems probable, in flight, then migrants must be habitually
somewhat nervous. In this sense, Hussein may have been quite correct in saying that adults
in full flight are not behaving normally. That is a very different thing from saying that
migration is abnormal in the sense of being caused by temperatures that are excessive,
i.e. well above the preferred temperature. If migrants spend most of their time in a state
of slight ‘nervousness’ that is due to their own exertions, released by temperatures below
those causing nervousness. When they reach Hussein’s ‘excitement’ temperature, migration
tends to stop. If the slight nervousness of migrating locusts is to be classed as an abnormal
condition, then it can only be said that it is normal for gregaria locusts to behave abnormally.
It is the insects themselves that are ‘abnormal’, which is simply another way of saying that
migrants are insects with a peculiar physiological constitution.