leaving the question quite unsettled’. To speak of insects ‘taking advantage’ of a given wind
direction is to assume that the insects anticipate which winds will be to their advantage and
which will not. The optomotor theory demands considerably less of the insects, and will
account, as set out above, both for the changes of height with changes of wind speed and for
the changes of wind orientation with change of height.

Gunn et al. (1948, p. 46) have brought forward a particular form of the optomotor theory
of wind orientation which is embodied in their expression ‘the forbidden course’. Obser-
ving that locusts did not maintain steady flight while being carried backwards by the wind,
however small the backward component in their ground speed might be, but did fly on
a track nearly at right angles to their course, the authors suggested that a course which
would lead to any degree of backward drift was ‘forbidden’ for, that is to say avoided by, the
locusts. This theory fits some of the facts and enabled Gunn et a/. to narrow down the possible
range of courses along which swarms could have flown in given wind conditions. But the
optomotor responses of flying locusts involve more than the mere avoidance of backward
drift. Figure 11 (p. 191) illustrates the finding that locusts have a preference for up-wind
orientation even when winds are gentle enough for there to be no risk of backward drift
while so oriented. The same applies to mosquitoes (see pp. 209 and 221). Hence the sugges-
tion that up-wind orientation was due to compensation of transverse image movement even
before there is any back-to-front component in that movement (p. 210). Such compensa-
tory reactions will, naturally, only occur provided, as with other kinds of image movement,
that the rate is neither too low nor too high for the movement to be distinguished. The
significance of the ‘forbidden course’ appears to be that, when a back-to-front component
does develop, the insect begins to react in a new way, changing over to a different kind of
compensatory response now that the old one has failed to maintain the preferred direction