acronym ELSI, which stands for ethical, legal and social implications. Scholarly papers on ELSI have
begun to appear, and there are, indeed, chairs on the subject in several US universities, which goes
further than traditional medical or bioethics. But it seemed to us in the Royal Society that it is necessary
to carry discussion on ELSI to people professionally concerned with the changes that the new human
genetics will bring to health care, employment, insurance, education and even perhaps the
doctor-patient relationship.

This Symposium is intended to be a contribution to that discussion, concentrating initially on the
impact of genetic testing on the insurance industry. It provides a forum for debate. Thus, we are pleased
that the Institute and the Faculty of Actuaries have joined us in this Meeting. Indeed, this particular
meeting arose as a continuation of the City-Science and Technology Dialogue, initiated by my
predecessor as President, Sir Michael Atiyah, who has also kindly agreed to chair this session. The
organizers of the programme have, however, wisely in my view, broadened its scope, so we shall in fact
be engaging with other aspects of ELSI. I am sure the Symposium will arouse the interest of the public
as well as that of our legislators. After an initial refusal, the Government finally agreed to the proposal
of the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee to set up a Genetics Commission. Let
us hope this Symposium will provide some guidance in its implementation.

But, to return to the theme of this Symposium, one might note that obtaining genetic information is
not something new in the insurance industry or in employment. A family history and some conventional
medical tests do provide this to a limited degree. What has changed, and changed dramatically, is the
advent of DNA-based genetic testing coupled with the very rapid expansion in knowledge of gene
structure and function in relation to disease, and this is what society has to grapple with today.

Sir Aaron Klug, O.M.