species, thus demonstrating that species are not equivalent units of genetic diversity. Genetic variation has been docu-
mented primarily using allozymes, and while this method is a good predictor of phenotypic divergence and of
postmating isolation between populations and species it provides only a weak indication of the extent of premating isola-
tion, probably because of the rapidity of sexual selection.

Given that the relationship between genetic differentiation and the evolution of reproductive isolation is not a straight-
forward one, what are the factors that promote speciation? Natural selection is clearly important and D. S. Wilson uses his
work on pumpkinseed sunfish to illustrate how it can generate differences between individuals within a population. S. A.
Foster et al. discuss the role of natural selection in driving speciation in the three-spined stickleback, noting that the same
correlations between phenotype and fitness may be evident at a range of taxonomic levels. Natural selection can also have
indirect effects on the likelihood of speciation, and one of the: ng as a consequence of variation in geographic range
size, is considered by K. J. Gaston. Darwin predicted that species with larger geographic range sizes would be more likely
to speciate, though recent work suggests that the probability of speciation is in fact greater for species with small to inter-
mediate range sizes. Developmental processes offer further insights into speciation and D. ‘Tautz and K. Schmid consider
how the genes that regulate ontogenetic pathways may be involved in the generation of adaptive phenotypes.

The importance of natural selection during speciation is indisputable. Sexual selection has, in contrast, been over-
looked until relatively recently. As J. A. Coyne and H. A. Orr observe, it was only at the end of the 1970s that its
significance was fully appreciated. T. G. Barraclough and his colleagues use robust, phylogenetically based null models
to examine the patterns of diversity among extant animal groups. Their work reveals that sexual selection by female
choice in birds accelerates the rate at which reproductive isolation arises, and thereby increases speciation rates and ulti-
mately species richness. Other issues in speciation, such as the role of geography in generating reproductive isolation and
the relationship between phenotypic variation and species range, are also amenable to investigation with their approach.

T. Price reinforces the significance of sexual selection by exploring, again in birds, the means by which sexually selected