
There was great excitement at the 1994 meeting about the continuing discovery and emerging mechan-
isms of action of molecular chaperones, and indeed about in vivo folding more generally. But these areas
were only just beginning to emerge as serious topics for discussion at an atomic level. Of particular signif-
icance then was the first and astonishing crystal structure of GroEL shown at the meeting by Paul Sigler,
an exceptional scientist whose recent passing we much lament. But the idea that we would soon have the
complete structure of the ribosome, the ultimate starting point of protein folding, at atomic resolution
was hardly even the subject of idle speculation. And although there was realization of what we could
learn by comparing different protein folds, the suggestion that we could aspire to know nearly all of
these, through the success of the various genome sequencing projects and advances in structural techni-
ques and structure prediction algorithms, was yet to emerge as a potentially realistic goal.

Perhaps the most remarkable fact, however, in the context of the 2000 meeting is that even a fairly
detailed examination of the proceedings of the 1994 meeting has revealed only a few scattered references
to the idea that ‘misfolding’ was a potentially important aspect of the process of protein folding. In addi-
tion, we found only one direct reference to the fact that diseases could be associated with aberrant
folding. The latter was in the paper presented by Oleg Ptitsyn, a true visionary in the field of protein
structure, whose death since the last meeting we also note with great sadness. These omissions to some
extent reflect the fact that issues such as these had not yet been described in the molecular detail we
required for the topics we selected for the 1994 meeting. But undoubtedly they also reflect the fact that
protein folding has changed in the last few years from a subject of rather esoteric interest to one that is
now recognized as being coupled to many of the central processes in cellular biology. And because it is so
strongly linked to fundamental cellular activities, any aberrations in the folding process will lead to
malfunctioning of the organism involved, and hence to disease.
