Arnold Hoff, like Jerry Babcock, was highly skilled in the involves nucleophilic attack by a calcium-bound water
application of EPR techniques and pioneered their use to molecule on an electron-deficient MnY=O species. In this
study the physical properties of the cofactors involved in mechanism, the calcium ion acts as a Lewis acid.
charge separation, including an in-depth study of the In order to describe the precise mechanism of water
redox active tyrosine Yz. splitting it is necessary to know the sequence of H* release
The work of Joliot, Kok, Cheniae, Klein, Babcock, Hoff from the two water substrate molecules. It is for this rea-
and many others has laid down a considerable knowledge son that Junge et al. (2002) have undertaken a thorough
base of the water-splitting reaction, a reaction that takes study of the proton release pattern during the S-state cycle
place in a multicomponent membrane protein complex under a number of different conditions. They conclude
known as PSII. However, we still do not know the precise that the proton release is 1: 0: 1 : 2 when advancing from
molecular mechanisms of this thermodynamically the S, to the S, state, which also does not fit the model
demanding reaction on which we all rely and that makes presented by Tommos (2002). However, the measure-
our planet unique in the solar system. The aim of The ment of the proton release pattern is hampered by the fact
Royal Society Discussion Meeting was to bring together that the Mn cluster and water oxidation process is well
scientists who are actively involved in this important area shielded by a matrix of protein. Therefore, although very
of research at a time when our knowledge is rapidly good progress is being made, more information, especially

advancing. high-resolution X-ray diffraction data, is required to
To fully understand the molecular mechanisms of a pro- obtain a widely accepted hypothesis on the mechanism of

cess as complex as water splitting requires a research effort water oxidation.

on a broad front employing a range of techniques. One The splitting of water is difficult enough, but the reac-

very recent major breakthrough has been the emergence tion carries with it other complexities, namely very high