
very recent major breakthrough has been the emergence tion carries with it other complexities, namely very high
of structural information. As described by Barber & Nield redox potentials of the catalytic intermediates and the det-
(2002) and by Fromme et al. (2002), electron and X-ray rimental generation of reactive oxygen species. It is simply

crystallography, respectively, have revealed the organiza- amazing that such a demanding and potentially toxic reac-
tion of the proteins that make up the PSII complex, tion can occur in a delicate protein environment. There-
including the location of their transmembrane helices. fore, it is not surprising that during water oxidation

Moreover, the X-ray work of Fromme et al. (2002) has protein damage occurs. However, plants and other oxy-
revealed the positioning of all the redox active cofactors genic photosynthetic organisms have learnt to cope with
involved in the capture of light and the generation of the this by replacing the damaged protein with newly synthe-
charge-transfer states. Most importantly, the X-ray dif- sized protein. In fact, only one protein takes the brunt of
fraction analysis has allowed the first glimpse of the struc- the toxicity, namely the D1 protein that, together with the
ture of the Mn cluster. Complementing these structural D2 protein, forms the reaction centre of PSII. The dam-
analyses are the techniques of X-ray spectroscopy age and repair process means that the D1 protein turnover

(EXAFS, XANES) and electron/proton resonance spec- in an illuminated leaf is typically about every half an hour.
troscopy (EPR, ENDOR, ESEEM), which can directly This is truly remarkable because this turnover must
probe the properties of the Mn cluster in various S states. involve a carefully regulated cycle of events ranging from

The multiline EPR signal of the S, state discovered by transcription and translation signalling to disassembly of
Charles Dismukes (Princeton) some years ago heralded PSII, including targeted protease activity and reassembly,
the era of investigating the Mn cluster by physical tech- and including incorporation of functionally important
niques. The power of X-ray spectroscopy to explore the redox active cofactors that bind to the D1 protein includ-