iour as well as social and communication impairments. cognition’, an emerging neuroscience approach to cogni-
Following another person’s direction of gaze is a volun- tive development.

tary action, but there is also an involuntary tendency to Possible deficits in very high-level cognitive processes

follow eye gaze, a kind of reflex. One highly interesting are considered by Simon Baron-Cohen et al. (2003). Suc-
hypothesis is that this reflex is absent in autism. This cessful social interaction involves a need to empathize (the
hypothesis has been tested by John Swettenham et al. term ‘empathizing’ is here used to include mentalizing)
(2003) with clear and negative results. These authors and this is contrasted to an ability to ‘systemize’—a drive
investigated whether an observer would be affected by the to analyse or construct systems. Having developed two
direction of moving eye gaze of a face. Would the observer scales to assess empathizing and systemizing, Baron-
be induced to look into the same direction as the face Cohen et al. contrast the performance of adults with high-
when this gaze did, in fact, give no useful information as functioning autism or AS and a normal population on
to the location of a target that the observer was instructed these two measures. Not only does a male-female differ-
to look at? The direction of seen eye movement provided ence exist on these measures in their normal sample
an involuntary cue even for children with autism. This (favouring males on their systemizing quotient and
new finding suggests that a missing attentional reflex is females on their empathizing quotient), but individuals
not the reason why individuals with autism fail to follow with autism also showed an unusually strong drive to sys-
eye gaze voluntarily and fail to engage in joint attention. temize. These findings reflect the different pattern of

In blind children, the absence of the visual modality interests of individuals with autism. Could these different
would certainly preclude the use of eye gaze to monitor interests arise because the normal preference for social
another person’s direction of attention. The importance stimuli in the environment cannot be presumed? This
of the visual channel for developing this ability is shown would correlate well with Klin et al.’s hypothesis. The
by the fact that congenital blindness is associated with a approach provided by Baron-Cohen et al. starts to provide