when this gaze did, in fact, give no useful information as functioning autism or AS and a normal population on
to the location of a target that the observer was instructed these two measures. Not only does a male-female differ-
to look at? The direction of seen eye movement provided ence exist on these measures in their normal sample
an involuntary cue even for children with autism. This (favouring males on their systemizing quotient and
new finding suggests that a missing attentional reflex is females on their empathizing quotient), but individuals
not the reason why individuals with autism fail to follow with autism also showed an unusually strong drive to sys-
eye gaze voluntarily and fail to engage in joint attention. temize. These findings reflect the different pattern of

In blind children, the absence of the visual modality interests of individuals with autism. Could these different
would certainly preclude the use of eye gaze to monitor interests arise because the normal preference for social
another person’s direction of attention. The importance stimuli in the environment cannot be presumed? This
of the visual channel for developing this ability is shown would correlate well with Klin et al.’s hypothesis. The
by the fact that congenital blindness is associated with a approach provided by Baron-Cohen et al. starts to provide
raised incidence of autism, and tends to produce some methods for the much-neglected area of adult assessment
social impairments that are reminiscent of autism. Peter and, with further development, these questionnaires could

Hobson & Martin Bishop (2003) report on their long- be useful tools for wide population screening. Further-
standing investigations of a group of children with con- more, the systemizing and empathizing quotient instru-
genital blindness but without the diagnosis of autism. ments could have potential importance for the broader

They pose the question of whether visual impairment is a phenotype. It is still an empirical question whether empa-
source of the social difficulties and to what extent these thy and mentalizing ability correlate strongly with the

difficulties (however they originate) have an intrinsic con- degree of social interest and whether low social interest is
nection with other autistic features in these children. a necessary, if not sufficient, prerequisite for a diagnosis