be short-lived, or if not, then more related to pre- has meant that any chances that once existed of

disposing factors than the war itself, but even this view providing better answers on aetiology have probably
started to change as a result of the aftermath of the vanished. Unlike many health problems, the window of
Vietnam conflict, and by the start of the Gulf War, it opportunity to properly investigate post-deployment
was conventional wisdom that a ‘bad’ war would cause health problems is brief (Hotopf & Wessely 2005).
as much in the way of long-term psychiatric casualties Perhaps time will prove this pessimistic prediction
as it would physical casualties—indeed, the two were wrong, and there is no denying that we have learned
intimately related (Jones & Wessely 2001). much about post-deployment physical and psychologi-
As Robert Gifford and colleagues show, the Gulf cal health problems and their management. But in the
War was indeed stressful for many, especially in the meantime, I think that those who are not seeking
period preceding the ground war. Some psychiatric simplistic answers, but an intelligent exposition of the
casualties were observed, but nothing on the scale seen facts and discussion of the possibilities, will find
after the Vietnam War, let alone the long campaigns of reading this issue worthwhile.
the First or Second World Wars. The Gulf War was not My gratitude then goes to all the contributors, who
the Pacific War, nor the campaign waged by the British have responded to the call with such scholarship and
and American air forces over the skies of Germany. So skill, and I am pleased to say, alacrity. It would be
there was an increase in long-term psychiatric ill health, insidious to single out any one person from the list of
but this is also inadequate to explain all the observed expert authors, but one in particular deserves special
health changes that have been found in Gulf veterans. mention. In May 2005 I asked Jennifer Vasterling who
That would be reason enough to have turned to the __ works for the Veteran’s Administration in New Orleans
final set of contributions, which come from the broadly to co-author the section on neuropsychological dis-
defined humanities. Like all military conflicts, the Gulf orders. Just as she was putting together her chapter,
War had elements of both old and new, and hence a Hurricane Katrina struck her hometown. Jennifer was
historian’s perspective is invaluable in setting the relocated to Houston, but at the time of writing has still