secretions. Trayhurn & Bing (2006) trace this transfor- Another site of convergent processing of estrogen and
mation to the discovery of leptin in 1995. This was the CCK is the central serotonin system, particularly at
first successful application of molecular genetic tech- 5-HT2c-R sites.

niques to the controls of food intake and body weight. This work with CCK is likely to provide a valuable

The demonstration that the secretion and circulating paradigm for the investigation of oestrogen’s effect on
levels of leptin were correlated directly with the amount the satiating potency of other peptides, such as
of fat mass apparently identified leptin as the physio- glucagon, insulin and leptin. The authors remind us
logical signal postulated by Gordon Kennedy (1953) that oestrogen affects body weight through a variety of
that informed the ventromedial hypothalamus of the — mechanisms other than food intake and the relation-
size of the fat mass. As an adiposity signal, leptin ships among these effects remain to be analysed in
functioned like insulin, but the fact that it was a specific types of obesity.

secretory product of fat, rather than an endocrine The next two papers discuss central mechanisms of
correlate, led many to assert its overriding importance. integration of these various peripheral signals.
This euphoria was dissipated by the fact that leptin also Ellacott & Cone (2006) provide a critical review of

suffered loss of inhibitory potency under conditions in _ the central melanocortin system. This system begins in
which obesity developed. Leptin’s role in the controlof the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and projects to other
food intake appears to be asymmetric: a decrease of hypothalamic structures and to the hindbrain where it
leptin, for example during food deprivation, is a potent increases the effect of CCK, one of the negative-
signal to increase food intake; increases of leptin as fat feedback controls of meal size. The system mediates
mass increases due to positive energy balance is a much some of the effects of leptin and it controls energy
weaker inhibitory signal. The pathophysiological expenditure through autonomic and hormonal