biology is performed, and has enabled biologists to ask appeals for more funding are unlikely to be successful.
more relevant, targeted questions in evolution, ecology What are needed are concrete goals, the taxonomic equiv-
and development, to name just a few fields. However, to alent of ‘complete the human genome sequence’ (of
arrive at a useful phylogeny, and to use phylogenies to ask course having defined completion such that it is
interesting questions about nature, one needs taxa—the achievable) or ‘survey all the stars in the sky’ (again defin-

tips of the phylogenies—that are described and identifi- ing completion carefully). The taxonomic community his-
able. For that one needs descriptive taxonomy. Phylogeny, torically has not been good at agreeing concerted targets,
description and identification are the three facets of tax- though this is beginning to change.
onomy, and should be seen to compliment rather than The GPSC (Crane 2004; Nic Lughadha 2004) has as
compete with each other. one of its goals the creation of a global plant species
There is a belief among some taxonomists, which has checklist by the year 2010. Already the plant taxonomy
some basis in fact, that more status accrues from phylo- community is pulling together to achieve this ambitious
genetic rather than descriptive work. This is perhaps natu- goal; similar types of product could be proposed for other

ral considering the advances made in phylogenetics in the key taxonomic groups. One agreed goal of the World
last 40 years; rapidly moving fields are understandably Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg
fashionable. As phylogenetics matures, however, and the (September 2002) was to achieve a ‘significant reduction
immense need for descriptive taxonomy becomes ever in the current rate of biodiversity loss by 2010’. How can
more pressing, we think it essential for a balance to be we even begin to assess this without a baseline against

restored, and for proper credit to be given to the best tax- which to measure this loss? Only taxonomy, and by exten-
onomy of whatever type. For this to happen there must sion the taxonomic community, can provide the high-
be changes both within and outside taxonomy. Descriptive quality species-level information to construct this base-
taxonomy must modernize, the whole field become less line—ignore the clarion call and risk less qualified groups