on the tree (posterior probability of each node is found 0.419: (AT) 0.020: (CG) 0.024: (CT) 0.509:
to be 100%), and there is no sharing of alleles between r(GT) 0.016; nucleotide frequencies A 0.18: C 0.35: G
the species. Isolates of the third species, B. mailei, the 0.32: T 0.15 and gamma parameter a=0.11. Pinvar=0.82.
cause of glanders (primarily a disease of equines, and All trees and model parameters are based on 10 000 samples
occasionally of humans), cluster within B. pseudomallei. from the posterior probability at stationarity.
All 36 B. mallet in the current B. pseudomallei MLST
website, recovered from worldwide sources over a
period of 40 years, are identical by MLST (excepting
one isolate that differs at only a single nucleotide site in
one of the seven loci). This ‘species’ can therefore be
considered to be a strain (or clone) of B. pseudomallei
that has been historically given a separate species name 5. SPECIES WITHIN SPECIES
by medical microbiologists due to the fact that it causes Burkholderia mallei is an interesting example of ‘species
a distinctive disease (glanders), which differentiates it within a species’, which highlights some of the problems
from B. pseudomallei, which is the cause of melioidosis. in bacterial species assignment. By MLSA, it is
The MLSA analysis of Godoy et al. (2003) also unambiguously a clone of B. pseudomallei; alleles at six
resolved the taxonomic status of a strain tentatively of the seven loci of B. maillei are also present in
assigned as B. pseudomallei (Yabuuchi et al. 1992) that B. pseudomallei and the seventh differs from a
was recovered from a patient involved in a tractor B. pseudomallei allele at only a single nucleotide site
accident in Oklahoma (a non-endemic area for this (Godoy et al. 2003). However, it has a genome that is at
species). This strain was shown by MLSA to be clearly least one megabase smaller, a different ecology, no longer
distinct from both B. pseudomallei and B. thailandensis surviving in soil and depending upon transmission

(figure 2), and subsequently, a second similar strain has
been identified in the United States and these have