the HadCM3LC coupled climate-carbon cycle also predominantly positive, leading to decadal mean
simulation described in §2. In the 2100 simulation, positive net forcing in excess of 10 Wm ® locally

Amazonia was a greater dust source than the present- (figure 3). The equivalent net surface forcing is
day Sahara (figure 3) due in part to loss of vegetation negative and also exceeds 10 Wm”.
cover and drying of the soil. However, the area of bare The experiments were designed to calculate the

soil was much smaller than the Sahara and the soil was direct radiative forcing due to dust excluding any
not as dry. The strength of the new dust source in feedbacks, and as such do not simulate changes in
Amazonia was largely due to increased speed of the climate due to the dust. However, it may be supposed
surface winds, which occurred as a consequence of that the cooling of the surface and the warming aloft
reduced aerodynamic roughness of the landscape due caused by the dust would tend to reduce convection
to loss of the forest. This reflects the fact that dust flux and low-level winds, thus producing a negative feed-
increases with the cube of the wind speed, but only back on dust production. Lower surface temperatures
linearly with area. could also result in reduced evaporation and a some-
Mineral dust absorbs and scatters incoming short- what moister soil, again producing a negative feedback.
wave radiation, giving a negative surface forcing, but However, these effects are likely to be much smaller
the change in top of the atmosphere short-wave flux than the climate changes driving the desertification
depends not only on the properties of the dust, such as of Amazonia.
size distribution and refractive index, but also on the The dust produced by the drier, windier, desertified
underlying albedo. Short-wave top of the atmosphere Amazonia was transported considerably beyond the
forcing tends to be positive over bright surfaces such as confines of the Amazonian region itself (figure 3).

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2008)
