Many scientists have therefore argued for a reduction (Ra) in the amount of emissions at t*, albeit
mechanism aimed at reducing emissions from defor- smaller than if the abatement measure had continued (Rg).
estation and degradation (REDD). Unfortunately,
while most experts agree that forest area changes can source of emissions, rather than creating a sink.
be monitored sufficiently well with existing technology, Emissions from deforestation are thus not inherently
it is much more challenging to estimate carbon stock different from emissions created through the combus-
changes from forest degradation (DeFries et al. 2007). tion of fossil fuels, at least in the context of large carbon
However, rather than delaying the start of a scheme pools, such as the Amazon forest or remaining global
until suitable technologies are developed and deployed, oil reserves. Protecting carbon stocks in existing forests
pragmatic approaches can be implemented. For now can mean that the stored CO, is emitted later,
example, Achard et al. (2005) propose to simply thereby merely delaying emissions from a defined
discount the carbon values of non-intact forests when source—but the same argument can be made for fossil
issuing REDD credits. Depending on available data for fuels. In fact, a time delay in emissions through
a country, a variable number of categories could be — temporary abatement measures results in permanent
used to account for the severity of degradation and to _ climate benefits because the cumulative atmospheric
assign respective REDD discounts. In addition, concentrations of GHGs will be lower at any future
significant advances in remote sensing technology are point in time (figure 2).
underway (DeFries et al. 2007; Kintisch 2007) and There is an additional benefit of temporary forest
targeted support for research and development, as well protection measures if they coincide with national
as technology transfer to REDD host countries could _Jevel forest transitions. In countries with decreasing
soon allow for more accurate measurements of carbon deforestation rates forests which are conserved through

losses from forest degradation. ‘temporary’ conservation measures could face lower
conversion pressure once these measures terminate
5. PERMANENCE OF EMISSION REDUCTIONS and could remain permanently conserved. Some