modifications towards a higher type, in the Monotremata (of. fig. 27). The differences
lie chiefly in the relative size of the chambers UD and PD, and in the circumstance
that the penis is lodged in a special pouch, which communicates with the rest of the
vestibulum through a narrow opening close to the ventral brim of the anus. We can
derive the wall PF, which separates the penis pouch from the rest of the whole vesti-
bulum or proctodzeum, from the ventral half of the fold F of the Sauropida ; the only
difference is that this fold, which in Crocodiles, Birds (cf. figs. 14, 15, and 10), and
Chelonians, gradually passes over into the loose coating of the penis, and thus forms
the beginning of a preputial sheath, has in the Monotremata become considerably
elongated in a longitudinal instead of a transverse direction. This I have tried to
explain diagrammatically by figs. 17 to 30. Such a reduplication of the loose penial
coating would almost completely separate the copulatory organ from the urodzeum,
and, in fact, these folds leave in the Monotremata a small opening near the root of the
penis groove for the reception of the sperma from the sinus urogenitalis, but not for
the urine and for the eggs. The walls of the urodeum, into which the urogenital
sinus opens, are very thin, and the muscular, chiefly longitudinal, coating is likewise
weak, with the exception of the voluntary striped muscle on its ventral aspect
(fig. 28). This chamber UD, the urodzum, receives in the middle of its ventral wall
the urine and the eggs, but not the sperma. Towards the vestibulum PD it is closed
by a circular constriction and partly developed fold F, and the terminus of the rectum
is marked by a strong circular muscle, which forms a powerful innermost sphincter 7c.

Whilst in Echidna the rectum shows a large dilatation above the fold 7c, and forms
there a true rectal chamber or coprodeeum for the retention of the feeces, the latter
in Ornithorhynchus probably mix with the urine in the chamber UD, which in this