could provide the mode of transmission of the agent consideration of an intervention to reduce the burden
rather than being the primary cause itself. The details of the disease being studied. Kuru is unusual, as in so
of the mortuary practices readily explained the sex and many other ways, in that the intervention came first and
age distribution of kuru. The practice had been provided an important clue that enabled, with other
proscribed by the Australian administration as one of evidence, the aetiological puzzle to be solved; this was
their first acts of ‘control’ and public feasting had then able to explain why the unwitting intervention
ceased by the mid-1950s and the practice abandoned had worked.
by the early 1960s. This would create a cohort effect Mathews et al. (1968) came to similar conclusions
with children born since this time growing up free of | from the multidisciplinary data available. When the
the disease. Current cases could be explained by the infectious nature of kuru, which had always been one of
long incubation period characteristic of TSEs. Finally, the available hypotheses, had become a fact, the puzzle
in 1967, it all came together (Alpers 1968). could be pieced together since it is so much easier to
A corollary of this explanatory argument was that develop a convincing explanatory model from facts
kuru was not transmitted vertically from mother to child than from hypotheses.
since many mothers had been pregnant, given birth or
breastfed their babies while they had kuru and no such
children were coming down with the disease. This 10. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
argument is a good illustration of how logical proof can Epidemiological surveillance in the field continued
be part of epidemiology as well as statistical proof. (Alpers 1979, 1987; Alpers & Kuru Surveillance Team
With the complete break in transmission, a pro- 2005) and still continues (Collinge et al. 2008;
gressive decline in the epidemic was predicted, its length Pako 2008); the methodology has been described by
dependent on the incubation periods of the remaining Alpers & Kuru Surveillance Team (2005). The kuru
infected individuals. The cohort effect would lead to a database has been maintained. The fruits of this

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2008)