were of reductions in striatal D2, dopamine receptor medication. The last contribution by O’Brien (2008)
binding being found before drug exposure, implying that focused specifically on treatment of addiction and
this change was not simply a consequence of drug surveyed the large number of strategies that are
abuse, but may be predisposing to it. Everitt et al. currently in vogue, particularly from a pharmaceutical
(2008) had also described the recent similar findings of | viewpoint. New treatments have emerged over the past
Dalley ez al. (2007) for the rat, where reductions in Dz decade, many based on the advances derived from basic
dopamine receptor binding had been associated with neurobiology, and there are obvious indications for
enhanced impulsivity. Of course, the question arises opiate (e.g. buprenorphine), nicotine (e.g. patches)
about the origin of such predisposing changes, whether, and alcohol (e.g. acamprosate, naltrexone) abuse, as
for example, they depend on specific genes or are the well as more speculative candidate treatments such as
product of environmental factors. In the case of vaccination. However, drug companies still needed
the non-human primates, Nader et al. (2008) stress encouragement to innovate in this area, and any
the fact that the low dopamine receptor binding is asso- treatment for cocaine dependence is still problematic.
ciated with likely stress resulting from social neglect. The discussion provoked by the meeting was a
Shaham and colleagues, in the paper by Crombag measure of the contemporary interest in this field from
etal. (2008), return to the environmental factors through the general public, as well as the scientific community.
which individuals relapse to substance abuse, specifically Some of the current excitement has been engendered
according to contextual conditioning. This article thus in the UK by a Technology Foresight Initiative
complements the contribution by Stewart (2008) in in Brain Science, Addiction and Drugs, published as

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2008)


Introduction T.W.Robbins et al. 3111
