we provide some background to these papers and highlight some key points made. The papers make
clear that highly significant advances to our understanding of animal and plant speciation are
currently being made across the range of this topic.

Keywords: speciation; species concepts; reproductive isolation; hybridization; species radiations

1. DEFINING SPECIES species as concept and to the species as taxon’ (Mayr
Charles Darwin’s On the origin of species by means of | 2002). This division is as much apparent today as it has
natural selection (1859) revolutionized our understand- ever been. Inevitably, when the term species is viewed as

ing of how changes within species brought about by aconcept rather than simply as a taxon, both pattern and
natural selection may lead to the formation of new process enter the definition with emphasis shifting to
species. Despite the fact that approximately 150 years how discrete entities (species) form and are maintained
have passed since the book was published, both the in the wild. This is particularly true for species that
definition of what species are and the ways in which _co-occur in the same area where there is the potential for
species originate remain highly contentious issues in _ high levels of interspecific gene flow unless some form of
evolutionary biology. Coyne & Orr (2004) have reproductive barrier is in place. This has led to the
recently documented and discussed nine different argument that a suitable test for whether or not different
species concepts, while others have extended this list organisms are indeed different species should rest on
even further (Claridge et al. 1997)! Each concept has its their ability to be maintained in sympatry. However,
pros and cons and it is unlikely that any one concept —_ most organisms are geographically isolated from each
will ever achieve universal acceptance. The definition — ther and consequently such tests cannot normally be
currently most widely accepted according to Coyne & — conducted in practice, although transplant tests, where
Orr (2004) is Mayr’s biological species concept, which possible, could overcome this problem to a degree.
