than with a computer. As we have seen, MPFC is one of ultimatum game, the majority of responders will refuse
the brain regions consistently activated when subjects offers of less than a third of the total (see Camerer &
perform tasks in which they have to think about the Thaler 1995 for a review). The responders consider
mental states of others. Rilling et al. (2004) made a that small offers are ‘unfair’, a matter to which we shall
similar observation with subjects who played either the return later. If the proposer wants his offer to be
ultimatum game (see below) or Prisoner’s Dilemma accepted, he has to take the responder’s view of small
game. Once again, the activity in brain regions offers into account. He has to predict whether or not
concerned with theory of mind, including MPFC, the responder will consider that his offer is fair. In other
was stronger when playing with a human partner than a words, he must think about the responder’s view of his
computer. The subjects in this experiment were told offer, an example of mentalizing (see also Singer & Fehr
they were either playing against a human or a computer 2005; McCabe & Singer 2008).

that chose its responses randomly. In fact, however, This requirement does not apply to the dictator
whether the partner was said to be human or computer, game. In this game, the proposer grants the second
the play was identical. Thus, the effect was created by player a proportion of the money which that player is
what the subjects believed about their partners rather bound to accept. So, the proposer has no need to take

than the actual run of the play. account of what the responder thinks about fairness,
The same design was used by Gallagher er al. (2002) since the responder is obliged to accept his offer. We
in an experiment where subjects played the game rock— would therefore expect lower offers to be made in the

paper-scissors. Greater activity was seen in MPFC dictator game. Consistent with this analysis, offers
when subjects believed they were playing against a made in the dictator game are indeed significantly

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2008)