the instructions. The behavioural and neural effects  non-risky course A. The same problem can be framed
were significantly more marked in response to the in a different way. Would you take course of action A
players who were presented as intentional agents. For which will allow 400 people to die (out of 600), or
example, the presentation of intentional cooperators would you choose the more risky action B. This option
elicited more activity in the amygdala, insula and may save every one, but brings with it the risk that every
reward-related areas such as striatum and orbitofrontal one will die? With this frame (the loss frame), the
cortex. These are areas generally associated with majority of respondents choose the risky course B. The
emotions, in this case positive emotions. This result first frame emphasizes the possibility that the risky
confirms the suggestion that social cognitive processes option may result in more deaths than the safe option.
are preferentially engaged when people believe they The second frame emphasizes the possibility that the
are interacting with intentional and free agents risky option may save more lives than the safe option. In

like themselves. fact, the probabilities are the same in both the cases.
In the experiment just described, the subjects De Martino et al. (2006) used fMRI to measure
learned about previously unknown people by interact- brain activity while subjects made decision about

ing with them. But we do not have to interact directly problems that were framed in this way. They observed
with people to find out something about them. We can increased activity in the amygdala in association with
also learn about their reputation from others. We are the framing effect, i.e. when choosing the safe option in
told that X is reliable while Y cannot be trusted. the gain frame and the risky option in the loss frame.
Delgado et al. (2005) had their subjects read vivid They concluded that the framing effect is driven by
descriptions of potential trading partners indicating emotional responses.

praiseworthy, neutral or suspect moral character. But, as was the case with responses to unfair offers in
Subsequently, the subjects were scanned while they the ultimatum game, even if a decision is influenced by