perception and mentalizing (for a review see Amodio & money to send back to player 1. The subgame perfect
Frith 2006). The authors argue that the observed acti- equilibrium prediction is that player 2 should keep all
vation in cooperators is consistent with shared the money, and therefore player 1 should send nothing.
reciprocity intentions, resulting in the inhibition of Alternatively, social norms may exist that interpret
both individual reward seeking by player 2 and risk- sending money as an obligation for player 2 to
avoiding behaviour by player 1. reciprocate. All but two of the 32 players sent some
In another fMRI study, Sanfey et al. (2003) amount of money to the other player, with two-thirds
investigated the neural correlates of the second player’s sending $5 or more, and about half of these high-trust
behaviour in the UG. Subjects made 20 decisions, subjects got more sent back to them than they originally
while playing 10 games with other individuals and 10 sent before tripling.
games with the computer. In the human counterpart McCabe & Smith (2000) introduced the TG as a
condition, subjects were told they would play once simplified form of the IG. The game has only two
against each of 10 different humans, but, in fact, the choices for each player. Player 1 can choose to end the
experimenters determined the sequence of offers game by moving left, giving each player $10, or
subjects would face to ensure that the human and choose to continue the game. If player 1 chose to
computer offers were counterbalanced between five continue, player 2 can choose between either player 1
50-50 (fair), one 70-30 (less fair), two 80-20 (unfair) gets $15 and player 2 gets $25 or player 1 gets $0 and
and two 90-10 (unfair) offers. Behaviourally, subjects player 2 gets $40. The choice made by player 1 is risky
accepted all fair and most of the less-fair offers, and can be interpreted as trusting player 2, since
however rejected roughly 50 per cent of the unfair player 1 gave up $10 and might end up with $0.
offers by humans, while accepting roughly 80 per cent Similarly, the decision by player 2 to choose that
of the unfair offers by the computer. The authors found player 1 gets $15 and player 2 gets $25 can be
by contrasting unfair with fair offer activations in the interpreted as being trustworthy since player 2 gave
ACC, bilateral DLPFC and bilateral anterior insula up $40 and only received $25. When played as a one-
(AI). Specifically, as the activation of right AI shot game, half of the player 1’s were trusting and