species loss, it seems unlikely that allowing for a slightly modest decreases. While the surprise in the earlier
‘gappy’ niche model is likely to affect such responses empirical web study was that occasionally a web would
significantly, but this is something that can be experience a sudden surge of secondary extinctions
investigated in more detail in the future. following losses of least-connected species, which
We now focus on the effects of connectance and otherwise led to few such extinctions (Dunne et al.
species richness on robustness, secondary extinction 2002a), the surprise here is how sensitive niche and
rates, secondary extinction thresholds and WC in niche related model webs are to the loss of least-connected
(and by extension, the nested hierarchy and generalized species, as well as associated sharp decreases in
cascade) model webs subjected to different types of | robustness as connectance increases from 0.05 to 0.15.
species loss. Consistent with prior results for species While the ‘surprises’ from the earlier and current study
loss simulations in empirical food webs (Dunne ez al. are different, the message is the same—species with
2002a, 2004a), structural robustness increases with few links cannot be dismissed a priori as unimportant,
connectance for niche model webs, given primary loss and in fact their loss may have significant and/or
of most-connected or random species, with the model unexpected negative impacts on the structural integrity
webs showing lower robustness to loss of most- of food webs. This effect may be related to finer grained
connected species at lower levels of connectance. structure within such webs, for example if species
Empirical webs with C=0.1 are less robust to loss of | with few links have dependent species that themselves
most-connected species than expected for niche-type have many dependent species. The dissasortativity of
webs of that C. Empirical and model webs with higher empirical (Newman 2002) and niche model food webs
C have similar robustness to loss of most-connected (Stouffer ez al. 2005), where species with few links tend to
species and empirical and model webs at any C have links to species with many links, may be a factor driving
similar robustness to loss of random species. Threshold this effect.
periods, during which zero or very few secondary Contrary to prior results for empirical webs which
extinctions occur until some level of primary species showed no relationship of robustness with species
loss is reached, appear in both empirical and niche-type richness (Dunne er al. 2002a), structural robustness