the object label or its symbolic identification that is of | are no savant geniuses about... Their mental limi-
ultimate importance and not the actual attributes tations disallow and preclude an awareness of innova-
derived by the brain to formulate the label (Snyder & tive developments’. (Hermelin 2001, p. 177).

Barlow 1998; Snyder & Mitchell 1999). There is no Are there instances when privileged access facilitates
need to be consciously aware of such details, which the creative process? Asperger (1944/1991) spoke of
explains why we cannot draw natural scenes without autistic intelligence as being the intelligence of true
being taught the tricks to do so. This strategy creativity, adding that it seems that for success in

accelerates decision-making, especially when con- science or art, a dash of autism is essential. And,
fronted with only partial information (Snyder et al. according to Fitzgerald (2004), a number of intellec-
2004). It might also accelerate the process of learning tual giants had autistic traits.
because, without grouping information into mean- The fact that genius might fall within the autistic
ingful packets, the brain is overwhelmed (Seidenberg spectrum challenges our deepest notions of creativity.
et al. 2002). Are there radically different routes to creativity: normal
and autistic? The autistic mind builds from the parts to
(b) Why are all autistic people not savants? the whole—a strategy ideally suited to working within a
The majority of savants are autistic. Why not all? closed system of specified rules. By contrast, the
Autistic spectrum disorders encompass a hugely ‘healthy’ mind appears to make unexpected connec-

diverse population. However, it may well be that tions between seemingly disparate systems, inventing
autistic savants represent autism in its purest form, entire new systems rather than finding novelty within a
uncontaminated by learned algorithms and other previously prescribed space (Snyder 2004).

disorders that are frequently associated with autism.