general public, and largely boosted interest for with most individuals showing similar direction of bias.
the study of functional hemispheric specializations Only recently it has been suggested that alignment of
of the human brain (see Gazzaniga (2005) for a current the direction of behavioural asymmetries in a popu-
survey of split brain research). lation can arise as an evolutionarily stable strategy

The hemispheric asymmetry underlying language if individually asymmetrical organisms must coordinate
processing has been considered a clear signature of the their behaviour with that of other asymmetrical
human brain, together with the hemispheric asymmetry organisms, and a model was presented that accounted
responsible for handedness, which is a strongly for the population-level lateral biases observable in
asymmetrical behavioural manifestation in the human _ prey-predator interactions (Ghirlanda & Vallortigara
species, with a distribution of approximately 90 percent 2004). The present theme issue starts with an
right-handers. Despite the relevance of these aspects extension of that model. In the article by Ghirlanda
and their clear value to human neuropsychology, we et al. (2009), in fact, a new game-theoretical model is
still have a limited understanding of the general origins presented that takes into account not only agonistic
of morphological and functional asymmetries in the interactions but also synergistic ones, showing that
brain and of their importance for behaviour. This isin _ population-level lateralization can be established and
part due to the fact that adequate model systems have —_ maintained at equilibrium by means of strategic factors
been lacking until quite recently, lateralization of brain —_ emerging from purely intraspecific interactions among
and behaviour having being considered an exclusively _ individuals. The improvement of the model presented
human trait for a long time. The change of perspective by Ghirlanda er al. (2009) rests on the fact that by
was reached gradually during the last century, with = accommodating phenomena of intraspecific social
evidence accumulating in the 1970s that left-right — cgoperation alongside with interspecific competition,
paired nerves innervating the avian syrinx have the model can explain more easily human lateralization

different roles in the control of song production than a model based on purely agonistic interactions.