the description given by Cole e¢ al. (1931) and from examination of the ovaries of the mare
during these stages, (a) that additional corpora lutea are formed from follicles which do not
ovulate, and (b) that the earliest accessory corpora lutea continue to function while the
later ones are being formed, until by the 80th day of pregnancy both ovaries contain a con-
siderable number of fully active corpora lutea. Amoroso é¢ al. do not describe the histological
condition of the individual corpora lutea of the mare’s ovary during the period concerned,
and whether or not these accessory corpora lutea of pregnancy can be distinguished from
each other, or, as it were, ‘aged’ histologically, appears not to have been investigated as
yet. These authors, however, found one or more ova in the Fallopian tubes of nine out of
fourteen mares killed between the 46th and 73rd day of pregnancy, so that, in some cases
at least, it must have been possible to distinguish the newest of the accessory corpora lutea
from the remainder. The corresponding stages of pregnancy in the elephant are fairly well
represented in the present material, and the fact that in no case could a clear histological
distinction be seen between the several active corpora lutea in a pair of ovaries very strongly
suggests that they were formed not over an extensive, but over a restricted period of time.
This conclusion is strengthened by the fact that the number of active corpora lutea was not
found to increase with successive stages of pregnancy during this phase. All the corpus
luteum formation which will occur in the earlier months of pregnancy has in fact been
accomplished by the earliest stage represented in the available material (E25). As the
corpus luteum of conception could not be identified in any of the available stages, even
the earliest, it must either have regressed completely by this stage, or else it must persist
in an active condition throughout the period of formation and activity of the accessory
corpora lutea. That it should already have regressed to a minute remnant indistinguishable
from the remains of corpora lutea which developed and waned before conception occurred
seems unlikely. Furthermore, the sample includes one specimen of L. a. cyclotis (E21) in