systems (e.g. the calendar). With the enhanced This view resonates with Heaton’s (2009) position,
perceptual functioning theory, Mottron er al. (2009) and her findings specifically that emotion commu-
propose that locally orientated processing and, speci- nicated in music is apparently fully accessible to
fically, detection of patterns in the environment, children with autism.
underlies the high incidence of savant skills in autism.
Plaisted Grant & Davis (2009) also emphasize the
qualitative differences in perceptual and cognitive 4. AND NOT EVERY PERSON WITH ASD SHOWS
processing in ASD, and make tentative links to SAVANT SKILLS
underlying neural systems. These very different theor- | The public fascination with savant skills may have
ists share the view that an ability to attend to and the dangerous consequence that striking skills are
process featural information plays an important part in expected of everyone on the autism spectrum.
predisposing to special skills of a savant sort. This view Draaisma (2009) explores the presentation of autism
is upheld, for example, in a detailed case study of a in fictional narrative, particularly in film, and concludes
prodigious mnemonist and calculator with Asperger that savant skills are vastly overemphasized in this
syndrome and synaesthesia who shows a preference for = genre. For the parents of a lower-functioning child
local processing and an unusual pattern of brain with autism who does not show a developed talent,
activation while remembering digits (Bor et al. 2007). the equation of autism with savant skills can be quite
distressing. Hacking (2009) considers how the
proliferation of autobiographies written by people on
3. BUT NOT EVERYONE WITH TALENT the autism spectrum may also inadvertently give a
IS AUTISTIC misleading picture of autism, since these writers are
There is general agreement that savant skills can be by their very nature exceptional in their ability to
found in people who are not autistic. An open question is communicate their experience.
whether such individuals share the cognitive charac- A key question is why some, maybe most, people
teristic of bias for superior featural processing. If ‘eye for with ASD do not develop savant skills. This puzzle is