de Vignemont & Singer 2006). Recent studies suggest, threshold. Likewise Saarela et al. (2007) subtract
however, that sensory and motor components may also mild facial expressions of pain from more intense
play a role. ones. By subtracting one tactile condition from
another, somatosensory activation present in both con-
ditions may be lost. Indeed Cheng et al. (2007) find

3. SENSORY AND MOTOR COMPONENTS OF somatosensory activation both when subjects view
EMOTION SIMULATION needles (pain) being inserted into different body
Pain is often characterized by a motor response (e.g. parts and when these body parts are touched by a

facial expression of pain) and frequently has a clear q-tip (no pain). Moreover, activation of the somato-
sensory component (¢.g. a needle entering the skin), —_ sensory regions disappears when pain scenarios are
which resembles other emotions. In fact, the pain contrasted with the neutral ones. Although somatosen-
matrix, which designates the collection of areas gory regions do not survive in a whole-brain analysis,
involved in the experience of pain, consists of a Cheng et al. (2007) show that S1 activation correlates
somatic/sensory as well as an affective/motivational with pain intensity. In addition, region of interest
component (Jackson er al. 2006). Brain areas that (ROJ) analysis on the left postcentral region (function-
are involved in representing the sensory aspect of ally defined by the somatosensory signal change
physiological pain are the thalamus, SI/SII and the during the pain condition) shows that watching painful
(posterior) insular cortex (Peyron er al. 2000; Price situations results in stronger activation than watching
2000). Activation of the motor cortex and the cerebel- the neutral equivalents. Again, when using more sensi-
lum is also reported in studies of pain experience tive methods, somatosensory involvement during pain
(Peyron et al. 2000). The next section reviews evidence perception is demonstrated. A third factor explaining
of motor and somatosensory simulations during pain _the contradictory findings concerning the involvement
perception in particular and emotion perception of the sensory cortex in pain perception could be the