all forms of vertebrate photoreception, both visual genetic background, the massive loss of classical
and extraocular. But perhaps the least expected photoreceptors in the rd/rd mutants had little or no
result to emerge has been the discovery of another effect on the ability of the mice to either entrain to a
class of photoreceptor within the eye, quite distinct light-dark cycle or phase-shift circadian rhythms in

from the rods and cones. Until recently it was incon- wheel running behaviour (Foster et al. 1991). Their
ceivable to most vision biologists that there could be irradiance response curves were indistinguishable
an unrecognized class of photoreceptor within the ver- from congenic wild-type controls, while eye loss com-

tebrate eye. After all, the eye was the best understood _pjetely blocked all effects of light on the clock (Foster
part of the central nervous system. One hundred and et al. 1991). These studies demonstrated that the pro-
fifty years of research had explained how we see: pho- _cegsing of light for circadian and visual responses must
tons are detected by the rods and cones and their be different and hinted at the fact that there may be
graded potentials are assembled into an image by another class of ocular photoreceptor. Such sugges-
inner retinal neurons, followed by advanced visual pro- tions were met with considerable scepticism and the
cessing in the brain. But image detection is very differ- favoured explanation was that as approximately 5 per
ent from the demands of irradiance detection. Rods cent of the cones survive in the retina of rd/rd mice
and cones are highly sensitive radiance detectors, (Carter-Dawson et al. 1978), it is probable that only
which rapidly adapt and can only integrate signals of — 4 small number of photoreceptors are necessary for
a short duration. By contrast, the circadian system is photoentrainment. Action spectrum studies on the
relatively insensitive to light, requiring high intensity _gnectral sensitivity of phase-shifting responses in rd/rd
and long duration stimuli to bring about photoentrain- mice were subsequently conducted, suggesting a
ment. The appreciation that the mammalian eye has to maximum sensitivity at either 511 or 480nm, but
perform two quite radically different sensory tasks these studies again failed to exclude the possibility of
triggered a line of enquiry that ultimately led to the —g_ yesidual_ cone contribution to these responses