(see, for example, Nordstrém er al. 2004; Larhammar photoreceptor cell
et al. 2009). Furthermore, it is plausible to think that In order to describe the specializations that character-
these events were of particular advantage to those ize rods, it is first necessary to define what is meant by
chordates returning to shallow waters, from among a rod photoreceptor. Although the distinction is clear
ancestors that had evolved retinal ganglion cells under in the mammalian retina, there are cases where the
the survival pressures operating at sustained low light situation is blurred, as is especially the case in the lam-
levels. For animals near the surface there would have prey retina. Here, a rod is defined functionally, as a
been advantage in using the broad range of wavelengths vertebrate ciliary photoreceptor that is reliably able
available, and also advantage in comparing wavelength to detect the arrival of individual photons of light. In
composition; i.e. in using colour information. In any contrast, a cone is defined here as a vertebrate ciliary
case, an early vertebrate, the last common ancestor of | photoreceptor that has a rapid response to light, and
lampreys and jawed vertebrates, possessed five classes is able to light-adapt over an enormously wide range
of cone opsin (Collin et al. 2003). In view of the fact of operating intensities, so that in practice it is never
that in some extant lampreys as well as in many saturated by the application of steady illumination,
extant jawed vertebrates, these five classes of opsin are no matter how bright.
differentially expressed in five morphologically separate Rod photoreceptors typically employ a ‘rod’ opsin
classes of ciliary photoreceptor (Davies et al. 20073 (rhodopsin), and typically have a cylindrically shaped
Collin et al. 2009), it seems very likely that the five outer segment, in which the great majority of plasma
classes of cone-like photoreceptors had already been membrane out-foldings have become sealed-off as

established in that ancestor. free-floating ‘discs’, and only a relatively small

Hence, it seems firmly established that, prior to the number of the most basal membrane foldings remain
divergence of jawless and jawed vertebrates, the proto- as patent ‘sacs’. In cones, the shape of the outer seg-
vertebrate retina was already fundamentally in the ment is typically conical in non-mammalian species,