with mentalizing: basal temporal, STS, medial prefrontal, but not extra-striate regions (based on data from Castelli et al. 2002).

(e) Brief excursion: the brain’s theory of mind able to perform other kinds of problem-solving tasks at
When we interact with another person it is helpful to anormal level. Even adults with autism cannot anticipate
know something about their mental states, such as with their eye gaze where Maxi will reach to retrieve the
their desires, knowledge and beliefs, because this is chocolate (Senju et al. 2009). This in sharp contrast to
better than anything else for predicting what they are normally developing children and adults.
going to do next. This vague insight was brought Autism is defined by core deficits in social and
under experimental control by a ‘False Belief’ task communicative behaviour. If you observe a classically
developed by Wimmer & Perner (1983). For instance, autistic child, then you can see in devastating clarity
we can tell where Maxi will look for his chocolate even what it means not to have a spontaneous understanding
though it has been moved to a different place when he of mental states. Mentalizing failure, or ‘mindblindness’,
was not there. In fact, a typical 5 year old can give you served as a highly successful explanation for the charac-
a complete explanation when given this test, and if you teristic social impairments in autism. For example, it
measure eye movements, then even infants 10-15 explained the inability to understand deception in the
months old are surprised if Maxi looks in the wrong presence of intact understanding of sabotage (Sodian &
place (Onishi & Baillargeon 2005; Surian et al. 2007). Frith 1992), or the inability to understand irony with

When we communicate with another person we also good understanding of metaphor (Happe 1993). The
depend on an implicit and spontaneous understanding idea of a circumscribed mentalizing failure in autism
of mental states. For instance, we do not tell another suggested that there might be a dedicated brain system
person what we think they know already, and likewise that is engaged when solving problems that require men-
they expect us to tell them something new (Grice talizing, a prediction that was confirmed by a series of
1989). If we follow the dark side, we can deceive and con- subsequent brain imaging studies (Frith & Frith 2003;
trol others by taking advantage of their ignorance and Saxe et al. 2004). As expected, this system shows mal-