selves with its transfer function. Control engineering approach because through it we avoid the systems
has produced several ‘device languages’ which we biology programme of making extensive measure-
can use; we can represent the functions as electronic ments of gene expression to be used in deducing the
circuits or mathematical equations. We can include internal state. We also simplify how data might be
the time dimension in this representation in the form handled. We do not need to store a total description
of rate constants but we will often find that these are of all gene expression for each cell type because we
not simple feed-forward pathways but will be stabilized can compute it from the reduced description. Not
by feedback loops, which can be incorporated in the only could we then understand how we differ from
same scheme. Many of the devices involved in signal chimpanzees, our close cousins, but we could then
transduction pathways employ mechanisms that carry out gedanken experiments, such as computing
involve covalent modifications of proteins by phos- the organism heterozygous for the two genomes.
phorylation to induce conformational changes. Would language be dominant or would chimpanzees
Hardly anybody ever addresses the fact that after have language suppressor genes? Could we design gen-
such changes the device must be restored to its omes to make centaurs, a hexapod organism with two
ground state so that it can respond again. It follows digestive systems, two hearts and two respiratory sys-
then that all of these devices must show oscillations tems? How did they reproduce? The Greeks made
and the period of this oscillation becomes an impor- centaurs by substituting the torso of a man for the
tant parameter. Naturally, such oscillations will be neck of a horse, making them all male, but perhaps

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)


Review. Sequences and consequences S. Brenner 211

they all only looked male and there were two kinds of | peptide sequences lining the active sites of enzymes,