it had occurred and that it was caused primarily (but Mendelian ratios in several crosses in his work on
not exclusively, as he was always careful to emphasize) plants (Charlesworth & Charlesworth 2009; Howard
by natural selection. By 1844, he had the preliminary 2009). In contrast to Gregor Mendel, his contempor-
ideas on evolution by natural selection committed to ary, he did not formulate a model of inheritance that
paper. While engaged in writing a much bigger book, made quantitative, testable predictions of the out-
Darwin was stimulated into publishing his ‘Abstract’ comes of controlled crosses, and so failed to grasp
by Alfred Russel Wallace’s letter of 1858, describing the significance of his ratios. Nevertheless, his work
Wallace’s independent discovery of the principle of | showed clearly that there was extensive heritable vari-
natural selection. Most of Darwin’s subsequent publi- ation in domestic animals and plants; selection
cations, including a long series of weighty books, were practised by humans on this variation is extremely
devoted to documenting the evidence for evolution by effective, as Darwin discussed in the first chapter of
natural selection. While the idea of selection had in the Origin. He could, therefore, be confident that
fact been proposed several times previously (including natural selection was a mechanistically feasible cause
by James Hutton, the founder of uniformitarian of evolution.
geology: Pearson 2005), no-one before Darwin and This did not, however, fully convince his contem-
Wallace had developed it into a mature theory of the poraries or immediate successors. It took the
cause of evolution, supported by a wide-ranging body rediscovery of Mendelian inheritance in 1900 (the
of evidence from the natural history of their time. year that also saw the birth of quantum theory), to
The finding that living organisms, including human put the study of inheritance on a sound scientific
beings, are the product of an immensely long historical basis. It took a further three decades for genetic knowl-
process, whose causes are entirely impersonal, rep- edge to be firmly incorporated into theoretical models
resented the natural extension to biology of the of evolution that could be tested against data on natu-
scientific revolution that had already taken place in ral and human populations, leading to the Modern
astronomy, physics, chemistry and geology. While Evolutionary Synthesis of the 1930s and 1940s. This
Darwin’s work revolutionized biology, it simply rep- work showed that variability is conserved by the mech-