
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)


Review. Global population projections W. Lutz & K. C. Samir 2783

the fact that education is typically acquired early in life distribution of women by the number of children
and then remains virtually constant along cohort lines. they have already given birth to, is an important deter-
If we know how many 10-year-old girls with some pri- minant of fertility in the near-term future. Highly
mary education there are today, we know (when important for economic and labour force consider-
considering differential mortality and migration) how ation is the distribution of the population by age, sex
many 50-year-olds with at least primary education and labour force participation rates. While there are
there will be in 40 years’ time. Given the fact that in several national projections of future labour force par-
most countries the younger cohorts are better edu- ticipation, consistent global projections do not yet
cated than the older ones, further declines in fertility exist. Another very relevant dimension in the context
as well as mortality are virtually pre-programmed. In of global population ageing and the associated needs
a few African countries where school enrolment rates for care for the elderly is the projection of the popu-
have actually declined over the past two decades, lation by health status. While significant progress has
this has led to a stalled fertility decline and partly been made in producing internationally comparable
worsening mortality conditions. indicators of disability and its impact on activities of
Aside from its effects on population dynamics, there daily life, up to now this has not yet led to the pro-
is also significant interest in knowing the educational duction of global projections which cross-classify
structure of the population for a broad range of health status with age and sex. Alternatively, one
social and economic development concerns. Based could try to classify people according to certain disease
on a newly reconstructed set of educational attainment risks or infection statuses (such as HIV-positive) if the