sibility and food choice, which in turn may be substantive shift to a diet with more animal products
influenced by geography, demography, disposable (the average per capita intake of meat increased by
income, SES, urbanization, globalization, marketing, 30 per cent between 1978 and 1997) and a lower
religion, culture and consumer attitudes. Some of | consumption of traditional foods (rice, wheat and veg-
these drivers that are specifically related to the etables) has taken place. The consumption of edible

nutrition transition are discussed below. oils increased sharply across all income tertiles, and
this is partly explained by price, making them afford-
(a) Income able even for low-income people. In addition,

Over the next three to four decades, global per capita increased income has lead to increased income dis-
income is projected to rise at a rate of over 2 per cent Parity and health inequality. Of concern from a
per annum, with developing countries that are starting health perspective is the fact that a projected doubling
from a low base expected to rise at even higher rates Of income could lead to a 40 per cent increase in
(Du et al. 2004). Their economies are expected to the incidence of high-fat diets in this population
expand at twice the rate of those in industrial (Du et al. 2004). — ;

countries. Rising incomes means higher fat diets. In In most industrial countries (eg. the USA and the
Mexico and Brazil, for example, where overweight UK), the effects of increased income have generally
used to be a sign of wealth, it now more often reflects been considered as beneficial, resulting in better qual-
poverty. Increased incomes or lower prices have leadto ity diets, better healthcare, lower morbidity and
the increased consumption of animal-based foods and mortality from infectious diseases and lower risk of
processed foods. While those that are well educated Obesity (Marmot 2001). The effects of SES on dietary
can choose to adopt a healthy lifestyle, the poor intake have found disparities favouring a more healthy
have fewer food choices and more limited access to dietary pattern among those of higher SES in indus-