RuBisCO is not CO,-saturated in present day atmos- (Parry et al. 2004; Nelson et al. 2009) show that the
pheric conditions, so rising CO, concentrations strength of CO, fertilization effects is a critical factor
increase net uptake of carbon and thus growth. The in determining whether global-scale yields are pro-

RuBisCO enzyme is highly conserved in plants and jected to increase or decrease. If CO, fertilization is
as such it is thought that the response of all C3 crops strong, North America and Europe may benefit from
including wheat and soya beans will be comparable. climate change at least in the short term (figure 10).
Theoretical estimates suggest that increasing atmos- However, regions such as Africa and India are never-

pheric CO, concentrations to 550ppm, could theless still projected to experience up to 5 per cent
increase photosynthesis in such C3 crops by nearly losses by 2050, even with strong CO, fertilization.
40 per cent (Long et al. 2004). The physiology of C4 These losses increase to up to 30 per cent if the effects
crops, such as maize, millet, sorghum and sugarcane of CO, fertilization are omitted. In fact without CO,
is different. In these plants CO, is concentrated to fertilization all regions are projected to experience a
three to six times atmospheric concentrations and thus loss in productivity owing to climate change by 2050.
RuBisCO is already saturated (von Caemmerer & However, existing global scale studies (Parry er al.
Furbank 2003). Thus, rising CO, concentrations 2004; Nelson et al. 2009) have only used a limited
confer no additional physiological benefits. These sample of available climate model projections.
crops may, however, become more water-use efficient A reduction in CO, emissions would be expected to
at elevated CO, concentrations as stomata do not reduce the positive effect of CO, fertilization on crop
need to stay open as long for the plant to receive the yields more rapidly than it would mitigate the negative
required CO, Thus yields may increase marginally as impacts of climate change. Even if GHG concen-
a result (Long et al. 2004). trations rose no further, there is a commitment to a
Many studies suggest that yield rises owing to this certain amount of further global warming (IPCC
CO>-fertilization effect and these results are consistent 2007). Stabilization of CO, concentrations would