Focusing on the more fundamental question of — that cases vary in the importance of the signals of
what factors affect rates of inter-societal cultural trans- branching processes and of areal diffusion. Heggarty

fer, Boyd & Richerson (2010) suggest that cultural et al. (2010) explore the value of phylogenetic network
group selection provides one boundary-enforcing methods to characterize linguistic relationships at
mechanism that may give rise to a coherent cultural larger time and space scales, where the underlying pro-
phylogenetic signal. They outline the conditions for cesses discussed by Nerbonne may have been active.
intergroup selection on cultural traditions using the They show that such methods are preferable to
Price equation (Price 1970), suggesting that social methods that force a tree topology onto lexical data,
transmission biases can ‘fix’ one of a number of and can bring to light distinct aspects of language his-
alternative solutions within a group when there are tory including both large-scale branching episodes,
multiple cultural equilibria (e.g. local optima in arte- and small-scale local diffusion. They also caution
fact design space or in a space of possible social that segregation of local interactions on linguistic
structures and social rules), with sorting mechanisms grounds (for example, associated with rules defining

such as competitive group extinction, imitative inter- group membership) can complicate the interpretation
group copying and selective migration then favouring of branching signals in such datasets. Bowern (2010)
the group that has converged on a globally optimal sol- explores similar issues in the context of Australian lin-

ution. Kandler et al. (2010) illustrate such sorting guistic prehistory and the expansion of the Pama-
processes using modified Lotka—Volterra competition Nyungan languages. Using NeighborNet (Huson &
equations to model language shift, suggesting that Bryant 2006) and a fractionation of lexical items into
this can be seen as a form of selective cultural sorting more and less borrowable semantic classes (based on
based on contrasts in the underlying social and econ- the prior assumption that, for example, body part
omic opportunities afforded by membership of terms diffuse less readily, while words for local