
cities and the countryside, with remittances from dict crop yields in the future by combining different
urban households financing innovation and yield types of global climate models (GCMs) with crop
growth in farming. growth models. Results to date are informative but

To accurately predict a nation’s food demand, it is not consistent. The nature and extent of CO, fertiliza-
important to know the full distribution of per capita tion (see also Gornall et al. 2010) and in general how
income and how this is reflected in food purchases, crops respond to climate change is insufficiently
an area of active research in behavioural economics. understood, and while GCMs tend to agree broadly
There is a lower limit to the amount of food an about how increased greenhouse gas concentrations
individual can eat without starving to death and an will lead to rises in temperatures, there is less agree-
upper limit determined by our physiology. These ment about which regions will get more or less rain,
biological facts underlie Engel’s law, which states something that is particularly critical in predicting
that as income increases the proportion spent on yields. The authors select a series of crops in 17 differ-
food declines. There are numerous challenges to ent countries and ask whether the goal of producing
estimating this relationship: moving from micro- to substantially more food in 2050 is feasible, given
macro-economic description—from the behaviour reasonable assumptions about rates of technological
of individuals to the aggregate properties of a advance, efforts to close the yield gap, climate, CO,
population—is complicated by the nonlinearity of the fertilization and (often ignored) ozone pollution.

Engel curve, what economists call the aggregation pro- Their conclusion, hedged with important caveats
blem. One also cannot simply work with per capita about the challenges ahead, is cautiously positive.
behaviours, as household size and in particular the How might we increase the supply of meat and milk

number of children affects the income—food demand to match burgeoning demand? A variety of strategies