species richness. They note a strong interaction Species may also respond to climate change by
between species—area and species—time relationships, changing their elevational range to track their optimal
discuss the theoretical underpinnings of this and environmental conditions. Colwell & Rangel (2010)
emphasize the contribution that an integrated spatio- develop a model to explore the relative roles of ecologi-
temporal approach to species richness can make to cal and evolutionary processes in range shifts and
explaining ecological and palaeontological patterns species richness patterns on tropical elevational gradi-
of diversity and to understanding how natural ents along Quaternary glacial and inter-glacial cycles.
communities will respond to global change. This model can generate a diverse array of patterns,
As noted earlier, the Earth’s biosphere is still very which a comparison with empirical data reveals are
incompletely documented, and when knowledge is realistic. Model results highlight that species richness
sparse, it becomes impossible to document change. profiles are strongly affected by temporal asymmetries
One of the least studied realms is the air, which in environmental conditions, and spatial asymmetries
Womack et al. (2010) argue should be considered a in area along the elevational gradient. The fact that
habitat in itself as it supports a rich assemblage of — glacial periods have lasted considerably longer than
micro-organisms. They make a strong case from draw- inter-glacial periods in the recent (geological) past
ing on biogeographic and macroecological approaches means that current tropical species are better adapted
and using these to identify and interpret patterns of — to cope with cooling than with warming climates. This
distribution and abundance in these taxa over space is extremely worrying given the current climatic trends.
and time. Extreme environments provide a complementary
set of insights into evolutionary and ecological conse-
quences of climate change. Clarke & Crame (2010)
(b) Process consider the diversity of polar assemblages and note
Elucidating the processes that shape the patterns of that the much higher richness of tropical communities
biological diversity that we find in the natural world is due to the presence of large numbers of rare species.
is not just an important fundamental challenge but Indeed, it appears that this characteristic latitudinal