information or other factors, are responsible for the Tooby promoted the idea that the human brain con-
apparent match between phenotype and environment sists of specialized psychological mechanisms that
[22]. Indeed, in this respect, the behavioural ecologists have evolved in response to selection pressures acting
can be portrayed as mechanism-neutral. This stance on our ancestors, particularly during the Pleistocene
does not equate with the idea that human beings are {17]. Evolutionary psychologists have posited
infinitely flexible, as human behavioural ecologists evolutionary explanations for a broad range of domain-
assume that constraints in the underlying genetic or specific mechanisms, including sexual jealousy,

neural mechanism will limit the range of environ- aggression, social exchange and morality [35].
mental conditions in which adaptive responses will While some evolutionary psychologists eschew any
be produced. historical links with human sociobiology [17,36], in

Far from lamenting the fact that their approach pays many respects, evolutionary psychologists view the
little attention to proximate mechanisms, many human major sources of influence on the human behavioural
behavioural ecologists regard this as a virtue. Human phenotype in a very similar manner to the human
behavioural ecologists have been viewed as document- sociobiologists that preceded them. Like sociobiology,
ing the range of possible strategies that can be evolutionary psychology has placed considerable
produced by universal cognitive mechanisms [28]. A emphasis on the role of genes in underpinning a
history of natural selection is assumed to have universal human nature (figure 1d). Evolved psycho-
endowed our species with the ability to weigh up the logical mechanisms are assumed to _ process
costs and benefits of adopting particular strategies, environmental inputs, such that particular inputs will

and it is these decision rules (and the underlying cog- flip these mechanisms into one of a number of states,
nitive and physiological machinery behind them) that thereafter eliciting appropriate behavioural outputs.
are assumed to have been the focus of selection [29]. In so doing, the organism is adaptive as a consequence