
Review. DNA replication control J. F. X. Diffley 3547

requirement [16]. In contrast to dnaA, the binding of [51,52]. Because the APC/C is specifically active
ORC to origin DNA does not induce measurable during mitosis and G1 phase, geminin is inactivated
origin melting in the region of helicase loading. during this period, allowing Cdtl to participate in
Whereas ATP hydrolysis by dnaA primarily plays a the licensing reaction only during this period. Geminin
regulatory role by preventing immediate re-initiation, appears to be found only in metazoans, where it con-
ATP hydrolysis by ORC and Cdc6 is required for tributes to preventing re-replication. Depletion or
the loading of the hexameric Mcm2-7 helicase onto deletion of geminin induces a G2/M checkpoint in
DNA [34,35]. many different cell types. In some cell types, this is
The most important difference with bacteria derives accompanied by substantial re-replication, whereas in
from this fact that ORC does not melt DNA. Instead, other cell types it is accompanied by S phase delays.
it loads Mcm2-7 as a head-to-head double hexamer Although these phenotypes appear superficially con-
around double-stranded DNA, not single-stranded tradictory, they probably derive from the same root
DNA [18,36]. In this configuration, in contrast to cause: induction of re-replication. In some cases,
the situation in bacteria, the helicase is inactive. large numbers of origins are deregulated, resulting in
Indeed, this pre-replicative complex (pre-RC) can significant amounts of re-replication. In others, only
reside at origins for significant periods of time before a few origins may be deregulated resulting in very
the helicase is activated and DNA replication com- small amounts of re-replication [53]. In some cases,
mences [37]. Activation of the helicase is a complex this may even be manifested as an apparent reduction
and still poorly characterized step that involves the in overall amounts of DNA replication [53] presumably
reconfiguration of Mcm2-7 so that the double hexamer because checkpoint activation caused by re-replication
separates and the individual hexamers are bound can prevent all new initiation, leading to an overall
around each of the single strands of DNA [2,38,39]. shut down of replication. In general, cancer cells