colour) produces an adaptive shift in colour space, each other. Finally, the presence of a contingent
chromatic contrast adaptation (to a single colour axis) after-effect does not require that the mechanisms are
renormalizes the contrast [144] selectively along the intrinsically tuned to the dimensions defining the
adapting axis and others near it. On this view, faces, as this tuning could potentially arise on the fly
colour contrast adaptation and simple chromatic if the underlying dimensions are not adapting
adaptation have quite different mechanisms and independently [145].
different perceptual consequences. Simple chromatic
adaptation induces a relatively uniform shift in
colour space, while colour contrast adaptation gives (c) Contrast in face space
rise to a perceptual repulsion from the adapting The parallels we have drawn between face coding and
hue axis. colour coding associate facial identity trajectories with
Analogous tests could be applied to face space, and hue, and identity strength with saturation or contrast.
in fact have been. Instead of adapting to an alternation However, unlike colour, the ‘contrast’ of a face stimu-
of complementary colours, the observer adapts to lus can be varied in two ways: as the magnitude of the
opposed pairings of facial characteristics, in a sequence facial dimension (e.g. how female or male the face
balanced around the norm along a diagonal axis appears) or as the physical contrast of the image
(e.g. Asian female face versus Caucasian male face) (e.g. how faded or distinct the image is). Both are
(figure 6) [42,67,86,94—98]. Contingent after-effects potentially relevant for understanding the adaptation
typically result (e.g. a male-ward shift in the percep- effects because both can modulate the neural
tion of Asian faces, together with a female shift for response, and moreover both may be important for
Caucasian ones). This shows that the two dimensions encoding some facial dimensions including gender

(gender and ethnicity) are not represented indepen- [146]. Higher visual areas that encode objects and
dently, and that the after-effect is not just a simple faces are less affected by variations in luminance con-
translation of phenomenal face space relative to phys- trast than cells in primary visual cortex [147,148],