neutral because they lead to a neutral response in the (a) How is neural coding shaped by the statistics
actual neural code. An alternative is that norms are of the environment: colour as a test case

instead the learned characteristics of our environment To be useful, neural representations should distinguish
and thus might be related to neural responses in arbi- well among the kinds of stimuli that are usually
trary ways. For example, there are large individual encountered. When natural stimuli are represented
differences in the stimulus that observers perceive by stimulus coordinates such as a distortion parameter
as achromatic [152] (or, presumably, as an average for faces in a face space, or redness in a colour space,
face). This could be because observers are each nor- an efficient neural code requires a good match between
malized in a different way (perhaps because they are the limited stimulus range over which the neural
adapted to different colour environments), but could responding is strongly graded on the one hand, and
also be because they adopt different criteria for label- the distribution of natural stimuli on the other. It is
ling a stimulus as white. In fact this distinction is inefficient to waste discriminative ability on extremes

central to the debate over cultural versus biological of the stimulus continuum that are seldom encoun-
determinants of norms for colour attributes like basic tered; but it is also less than optimal to neglect unusual

colour terms [153] or for facial attributes like attrac- cases totally, by devoting all discriminative capacity to
tiveness [154]. Adaptation provides a means to test just the most typical stimuli (near-whites, or nearly
these alternatives [119,155]. If the norm corresponds average faces). These extreme design choices imply
to a balanced response across the channels, then adap- an optimum code intermediate between them: steep

tation to the norm should not alter the response, or iN gradients of neural response should be in the region
other words should not induce an after-effect. That is, where natural stimuli are concentrated.
