sing suggest that the visual system may often reinvent In achromatic test bars, this leads to strong negative
common strategies to represent diverse characteristics after-effects for colour that are contingent on orien-

of the visual world. Moreover, for both represen- tation. However, when red and green are instead
tations, adaptation may play analogous and central paired with oppositely distorted faces, there were
roles, suggesting that there are principles and proper- neither visible colour after-effects, nor were shape
ties of adaptation that are common throughout the after-effects contingent on the colour. Similar null
visual stream. effects were found when different colours were paired

Yet the functional role of face adaptation, and of the with different facial expressions, even when these
face space in which adaptation is modelled, remain colours were varied along chromatic axes consistent
tantalizingly obscure. The representation of faces in a with different expressions [217]. One implication of
metric space by associating neural signals with the this result is that there are in fact limits to visual
various coordinates is a natural one and a useful tool plasticity—shapes and colours that are clearly dis-
for analysis, but it is not independently validated by tinguishable cannot be arbitrarily associated through

introspection, or well-suited to subserve face recog- adaptation. This is important because it suggests that
nition except indirectly. A metric representation of | the contingent adaptation effects that have been
colour makes some functional sense, as in colour, con- reported for faces are actually revealing something

tinuous variations are significant: colour coordinates about the tuning properties of face mechanisms
can map onto behaviourally significant distinctions, [23,67,203], and that it is by design that the visual
as with ripeness of fruits for instance, and achieving system combines these dimensions in a joint represen-
colour constancy under varying illumination calls for tation. A second implication is that while both colour
metric computations. With faces, there is a more lim- and shape may be useful for evaluating faces, they