theme the future of tropical rainforests in a changing landscape and climate. The global environ-
mental context to the issue is briefly given before the contents and rationale of the issue are
summarized. Most of the papers are based on research carried out as part of the Royal Society
South East Asia Rainforest Research Programme. The issue is divided into five sections: (i) the his-
torical land-use and land management context; (ii) implications of land-use change for atmospheric
chemistry and climate change; (iii) impacts of logging, forest fragmentation (particularly within an
oil palm plantation landscape) and forest restoration on ecosystems and their functioning; (iv) the
response and resilience of rainforest systems to climatic and land-use change; and (v) the scientific
messages and policy implications arising from the research findings presented in the issue.

Keywords: rainforest; climate change; land-use change; land management; landscape

Forests are valued both for their biodiversity and for of forests is further reflected in the fact that 2011 is
the many ecosystem services that they provide at the the United Nations International Year of the Forests.

local, regional and global level. For example, defores- This theme issue addresses the future of rainforests in
tation and forest degradation contribute between 15 a changing landscape and climate. Although the cover-
and 25 per cent of current human-associated green- age is the global tropics, the focus is on the island of
house gas emissions. Forests are under threat from Borneo, as most of the papers are based on research car-
many quarters including clear-cut and selective log- ried out as part of the Royal Society South East Asia

ging and conversion to agriculture and other land Rainforest Research Programme (SEARPP) based at
uses. Fragmentation and degradation of the remaining Danum Valley in Sabah. This theme issue provides a
forest (including over-harvesting of bush meat) and synthesis of SEARRP research since previous special
the effects of climate change including increased risk issues in 1992 [1] and 1999 [2]. Themes of successive