
cortex comprise only about 2-3% of the cortical We also investigated the effects of body temperature
volume, whereas it is four to five times more in the on cortical processing. These experiments were carried
rat. The differences in relative cortical volumes are mir- out under urethane anaesthesia. In order to minimize

rored by findings in relative cortical area sizes [74] and the stress associated with the intraperitoneal urethane
neuron numbers [72]. In summary, the Etruscan shrew injection, animals were first lightly anaesthetized by
devotes a large cortical volume to somatosensation, isoflurane inhalation. We then injected millilitres of
whereas visual and auditory processing takes up only 4 per cent 145 urethane solution in water for an adult
small fractions. The superb tactile capacities are approximately 2.5 g shrew (a dose of approx. 0.7 mg
reflected in the anatomy of the shrew cortex. urethane g ! body weight). To this end, we made use

of the fact that shrews easily withstand passive cooling

during anaesthesia. Their resistance to cooling might
(c) Cortical organization: physiology be related to their physiological ability to reduce
The neurophysiology of the Etruscan shrew is of inter- body temperature and enter a torpid state (see §1c;
est both because of their small brain size and their [26,27]). At a low body temperature of 24°C neuronal
remarkable behavioural capacities. Work on related response, latencies to whisker stimulation with a pieco-
northern American shrew species showed that these eletric device were long and responses to stimulus offset
shrews have few sensory cortical areas, which include were absent (figure 4b). With increasing body tempera-
a large primary and secondary somatosensory cortical tures, latencies became faster and the off-response was
area and a primary visual and auditory cortex [15], a more prominent (figure 4b). Thus, even in a torpid
pattern in line with the numerous specializations of — state with low body temperature, the cortex responds
