Shape from touch A. M.L. Kappers 3113

whole stimulus at the start of the adaptation period. This over the stimulus in order to perceive the shape, the
is true for the whole hand, the five finger tips and even after-effect is much smaller, but transfer to other fin-
the one static finger conditions. Interestingly, whether gers is almost complete. This difference suggests
the subjects touch the stimuli statically or dynamically different processes and probably that different brain
is not of influence, not even if these conditions are areas are involved in the two cases.

mixed over adaptation and test stimuli. In conditions The occurrence of after-effects has important con-
where exploration (active or passive) is necessary to sequences for the way experiments should be set up.
sense the whole stimulus, the after-effects are substan- Asking for absolute judgements (for example, ‘Is this

tially smaller. This is probably related to the fact that shape convex or concave?’) is only of interest when
the local curvature in the one finger active and passive one is studying the after-effects; in all other cases, it
conditions is below the curvature perception threshold will cause an unwanted variability in the data. Most
[14]: movement, either active or passive, is necessary of the curvature experiments were set up as discrimi-
to perceive curvature. The one finger active condition nation studies and although after-effects cannot be
is somewhat similar to the condition tested by Gibson ruled out, their influence can then at most be limited.
[36], but he used an adaptation period of 3 min. There- The curvature discrimination experiments showed
fore, it might be that in the active and passive conditions, that first-order information in the stimulus is the domi-
a 10 s adaptation period is not sufficient to reach the nant factor determining the threshold. This is true over
maximum strength of the after-effect. As these exper- the whole range of spatial scales, varying from stimuli
iments always take a long time and are quite boring for smaller than a finger tip to stimuli requiring arm move-
both subject and experimenter, this possibility has not ments. This provides a useful insight for the designers
(yet) been tested. Unfortunately, Gibson [36] had only of virtual worlds: what subjects cannot feel, does not