
164 M.R. Evans et al. Introduction. Predictive ecology: systems approaches

need to embrace the further challenge of developing useful in the endeavour of making ecological pre-
truly predictive models of their systems, models that dictions, and so an alternative approach is needed.
can be cast into future, often novel, conditions in A systems approach in which characteristics of one
which the systems have not yet been observed. We level in a hierarchy are explored as emergent properties
believe that this is necessary to allow ecologists to of processes lower down in the hierarchy [17], will be
improve their understanding of the systems they essential for making ecological predictions in novel
study but is particularly important to enable us to conditions. This is because systems approaches do
address questions about the impact of environmental not assume that a description of a system will remain
change on the biological world. Anthropogenic valid indefinitely (as do phenomenological models by
environmental change is creating novel environmental definition), they rely on the fact that the internal pro-
conditions and we need to develop the ability to fore- cesses will continue to operate into the future and that
cast the way in which ecosystems, components of their operation will be in some way altered by the
ecosystems and the services we derive from them, changed conditions. The higher order emergent prop-
will alter as conditions change [5]. Although, at least erties alter as a consequence of the changes in the
conceptually, this problem could be approached internal processes not because the higher order effects
empirically—perhaps by experimentally manipulating themselves have been projected into the future.
a system, this would be extremely difficult at any The adoption of a systems approach to the analysis
significant scale; the most likely way to predict the of ecological systems is not novel. Systems ecology was
future state of ecological systems will be through the term used to describe the approach promulgated
modelling. by the International Biological Programme (IBP) in
The first issue encountered in the development of a the 1960s [18,19]. The aim of this approach was to
model is that all models are abstractions; it is obviously measure as many aspects of the ecological system as