that the monkey’s mode of representation may advance could it cumulatively evolve over generations? In
to ‘iconic (visual)’ and even close to ‘symbolic’ [18]— other words, is it purely subserved by ‘cultural inheri-
during human development, these appear later during tance’, or alternatively, could it be a part of an
childhood or after maturity. This expectation implies epigenetic evolutionary mechanism in which the infor-
that motor-tool-use-trained monkeys could be further mation embedded in the environment contributes to
trained to use a video monitor to retrieve food that is modification of phenotypic expression in succeeding
out of their direct line of sight, and that the receptive generations? Although the latter has a flavour of
field of the parietal neurons that code the hand and Lamarckism—inheritance of acquired phenotypic
the tool incorporated into it will be activated by traits—there may be a biological mechanism that
visual feedback when images of the hand and tool could channel the evolution of adaptations to an environ-
are seen on the video monitor (figure la(ii)) [19]. ment in which cultural information is embedded.
Thus, the body image is visually projected onto the Macroscopic expansion (up to 23% of MRI grey matter
distant monitor screen. In fact, we have found that signal) of cortical grey matter, including the intraparie-
monkeys that acquire the ability to use a rake and a tal region, was detected in monkeys undergoing two
video monitor to retrieve food objects in this way can weeks of tool-use training (figure 2a) in our recent
immediately combine multiple tools purposefully to Voxel Based Morphometry analysis (a kind of digital
accomplish the goal [20], as if they are able to logically neuroanatomy using the magnetic resonance imaging
structure body parts using (proto-)symbolic represen- technique) [21]. During the same period, micro-
tations (figure la(i)). Here, we can recognize that the scopic changes (axonogenesis and synaptogenesis, as
hierarchical structures of motor tools/sensory tools/ detected by tracer-injection histological examinations)
brain tools [18] resemble the hierarchy of repre- [22] together with elevated expression of immediate-
sentations from enactive (motor) to iconic (sensory) early genes [23] and of neurotrophic factors [24,25]
to symbolic (brain) structures of development, as were also shown to have been induced in these cortical

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2012)