may be related to the kinds of mentalizing skills (i.e. hypothesis has not as yet been formally tested.

the ability to read the mind states of another individual Although human facial expression has been studied
in order to understand their intentions and appre- in some detail, beginning, as we have already noted,
ciate their particular perspective) that are an essential with Darwin himself [5], most of this research has
feature of human social life, and for which the precur- focused on demonstrating either the universality or

sors may already be found in primate social cognition, the cultural specificity of human facial expressions,
and perhaps that associated more widely among the having been somewhat trapped in the insidious
birds and mammals with pairbonded sociality [99]. nature/nurture debate. Unfortunately, few of these
That these kinds of mentalizing skills are cognitively studies allow us to undertake comparative cross-
demanding (and hence require more neural material cultural analyses. Most suffer from design problems
to be recruited for their processing) has been shown (not least the fact that they invariably involve forced
by neuroimaging studies of humans demonstrating choice naming of emotions from still photographs)
that individual differences in mentalizing competences that make it difficult to draw any firm conclusions
correlate with volumetric differences in those regions either way [107]. At best, the most compelling con-
of the brain known to be essential for basic theory of | clusion we can draw from these studies is that
mind competences [44,45]. More importantly, there familiarity with Western culture is the best predictor
appears to be a parametric effect on recruitment of | of ability to correctly name facial expressions of
neurons in these regions when subjects are working emotion [107]. Worse still, almost all these studies
at progressively higher levels of intentionality [100]. focus on facial cues for a handful of emotional states
Such considerations might lead us to suppose that (happiness, sadness, anger, etc.,), and ignore the many
signal repertoire complexity should be more complex other facial signals that humans commonly use (nods,
in such species, independently of group size. Although winks, grins, laughs, pouts, head shakes, etc.). In the
this prediction has never been tested, it is certainly only detailed naturalistic cross-cultural study, Eibl-