signal complexity became important in mate choice lates in some signals over evolutionary time through
once it evolved [130]. processes such as genetic drift. This will result in
species that differ in signal design because of differ-
ences in the number, order or type of mutations that
(c) Species recognition have arisen in each lineage. Evolutionary biologists
When animals frequently encounter congeners in the are well aware that ‘neutral’ phenotypic change
environment, there are clear selective advantages for (change that serves no particular adaptive function)

animals to discriminate conspecifics from heterospecif- is an inherent outcome of evolution. Indeed, the
ics in both mating and territorial contexts (reviewed in original motivation for developing phylogenetic com-
Ord et al. [132]). This should in turn result in con- parative methods was to account statistically for the

siderable selective pressure for social signals to fact that species accumulate phenotypic changes over
convey reliable cues on species identity. Many studies time and tend to share or differ in their phenotypes
have confirmed that species-specific components as a function of their phylogenetic relationships
exist in mating and territorial signals [132]. It seems [137]. Communication researchers may be less famil-
reasonable to expect the frequency of encounters iar with the notion that stochastic processes feature
with sympatric species, especially those of similar prominently in evolution and that the behaviour of ani-
appearance and ecology (e.g. those heterospecifics mals may not always be the product of current or even
belonging to the same or closely-related genera), to past selection. It is not surprising then that there are
promote complexity in signal designs or repertoires. few studies examining the question of whether factors
Character displacement—the phenomenon of ecologi- such as genetic drift underlie variation in signal com-
cal and phenotypic divergence when previously plexity among closely-related species. Yet, we should
allopatric species come into contact [133]—occurs in not expect the evolution of communication to be any
