primarily caused by M. tuberculosis and Mycobacterium prior to developing TB. Mycobacterium canettii differs
africanum, a phylogenetic variant of MTBC limited to in many ways from classical MTBC. This organism
West Africa [15]. In addition, several animal-adapted produces smooth and shiny colonies on solid growth
members of MTBC exist, which affect a range of | media, which are distinct from the rough colony mor-
wild and domestic animal species [16]. These include phology characteristic of classical MTBC. Moreover,
M. bovis (a pathogen of cattle), Mycobacterium caprae M. canettii and the other ‘smooth TB bacilli’ harbour
(sheep and goats), Mycobacterium microti (voles) and much more genetic diversity compared with classical
Mycobacterium pinnipedi (seals and sea lions). Mycobac- MTBC (figure 1). Most importantly, M. canettii
terium bovis used to be a significant cause of human shows clear evidence of ongoing horizontal gene
TB, primarily in children who consumed raw milk exchange (figure 1), which does not occur in classical
[17]. However, M. bovis infections in humans decreased MTBC [21,22]. This latter observation, combined
markedly following the introduction of pasteurization with the lack of evidence for human-to-human trans-
and meat-control practices. Moreover, M. bovis does mission of M. canettit, and the fact that M. cannettit
not easily transmit between humans and, similarly, clinical isolates are rare, suggests that this organism
while M. tuberculosis has been isolated from various is an opportunist, and that an environmental reservoir
animal species, including cattle, there is currently no exists somewhere in the Horn of Africa [23].
evidence of animal-to-animal transmission of M. tuber- By contrast, M. tuberculosis and M. africanum are
culosis or M. africanum. Hence, the different members obligate human pathogens with limited survival out-
of MTBC appear to be best adapted to their particular side of the human body and no known animal
host species [18]. reservoir [15]. Moreover, these microbes have to
One particular member of MTBC deserves special cause active disease in order to transmit to secondary
mention: Mycobacterium canettii, which is part of the hosts [24]. In other words, in MTBC there is a
so-called ‘smooth TB bacilli’ [19]. This somewhat direct link between virulence and _ transmission,

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2012)