M. tuberculosis and the cattle-adapted M. bovis.
Furthermore, about two-thirds of these SNPs are non-
synonymous (figure 4), and the majority of these 7. FROM MYCOBACTERIUM TUBERCULOSIS
non-synonymous SNPs are predicted to have a COMPLEX GENOTYPE TO PHENOTYPE

Figure 5. Human T-cell epitopes of MTBC are evolutiona-
rily hyper-conserved. Ratio of non-synonymous mutations

functional consequence [32]. Thus, any of these differ- The first human cells encountered by MTBC during
ences on their own, or in combination, could influence the course of an initial infection are believed to be
the various MTBC phenotypes [52]. alveolar macrophages [24]. These cells engulf

As mentioned above, the six main human-adapted MTBC but cannot destroy them. In fact, MTBC
lineages of MTBC can be divided into evolutionarily evolved mechanisms to inhibit endosome maturation
‘ancient’ and ‘modern’. As can be seen from figure 2, and phagosome—lysosome fusion, which allows the
the three ‘modern’ lineages are overall more successful bacteria to survive and even multiply within these
than the other lineages in terms of their geographical macrophages [56]. Human monocyte-derived macro-
spread [37]. What could account for this differential phages (MDMs) have thus been used as a model to
success? According to the evolutionary scenario by study the cell biology and early mechanisms of infec-
Hershberg et al. [32] (figure 3), the ‘modern’ lineages tion in TB. Portevin et al. [57] recently used such a
expanded as a consequence of the sharp increases model to study the innate immune responses to 28
in human populations during the last few centuries in MTBC strains spanning the whole global diversity of
Europe, India and China. Ecological theory pre- human MTBC. The authors used MDMs from eight
dicts that when virulence is positively correlated with different healthy donors, infected them with one of
transmission, as is the case in TB, access to a larger each of these 28 strains, and measured a series of cyto-