small set of individuals, leaving the rest of the polygamous accordance with Thrall et al. [7], the average prevalence of


(a) polygyny (b) polygyny

Figure 5. The average proportion of the (a,c) polygamous sex and (b,d) the monogamous sex that are infected for varying degrees of polygamy (a) and inertia to
switching mating groups (p). (a,b) Data from a polygynous system; (c,d) data from a polyandrous system. Higher values of @ correspond to higher variation in the
number of partners for the polygamous sex (equation (3.1)). For the monogamous sex, the prevalence of infection tends to increase with higher degrees of
polygamy and lower inertia. By contrast, the prevalence of infection in the polygamous sex peaks at intermediate values of cv. This peak is higher for polygyny than
for polyandry (parameters: N,, = N= 500; B= 0.1; y= 0.5; k= 10 * w= 0.01; o7= 0.05).

infection in polygynous males decreases with greater inertia, polyandrous scenarios was found to be maximized for inter-
but only for intermediate values of a (figure 5a). In fact, the mediate values of y, but only for low to intermediate values
average number of males infected in a highly mobile popu- of a (figure 6).
lation (p = 0) is approximately double that when movement In ยง2, we discussed how the ratio of male to female cases
is more limited (p= 0.9). Lower values of p can lead to during the early stages of an epidemic could be predicted
more mixing between groups and increases mating opportun- based on the transmission rates between sexes and partner
ities for less attractive members of the polygamous sex. acquisition rates (equation (2.4)). Figure 7 compares this pre-
Hence, equilibrium levels of infection tend to increase with diction (using attractiveness, a(i), as a proxy for partner
lower inertia, but the polygamous sex is disproportionately acquisition rates) with the actual ratio of cases between the
affected. Mixing tends to be much less common in our poly- monogamous sex (Cy) and the polygamous sex (Cp) for our
androus system, as males are less able to determine whether model. It is clear that the polyandrous system tends to have
or not they have successfully produced offspring and so gen- a greater bias towards infection in the monogamous sex com-
erally choose to stay in a mating group. The opposite is true pared with polygynous systems. As discussed earlier, this is
in the polygynous scenario, as females are always able to due to increased mixing in polygynous systems exposed to a