performance (fertilization, growth, survival, etc.) [41-43].

Again, there is good evidence of mate choice that targets
such non-additive genetic effects, or mate choice that targets

both ‘good’ and compatible gene effects [42-46]. However, 3. Polyandry and mating competition

when the genetic quality of mates cannot be determined ae ‘
before mating, females may increase their chances of finding (a) Competition among females for mating

a compatible sire for their offspring by mating polyandrously opportunities
[41,47]. Recent work suggests the same can be true for males Polyandry can generate competition among females for
that mate polygynously [48]. In fact, a recent meta-analysis mating opportunities. As we have seen, in species where
suggests that post-copulatory mechanisms are more likely females obtain reproductive benefits from males, the female
to generate ‘good’ or compatible genetic benefits than is Bateman gradient will be positive, and we should expect to
pre-copulatory female choice based on male secondary see competition among females for access to multiple
sexual traits [39]. Consistent with this, several empirical and males. The intensity of female competition for mates will
theoretical studies have shown that polyandry can evolve in depend largely on the benefits of polyandry and the costs
response to genetic incompatibility [49-52]. of mating for males in terms of their time out [5] (or
When polyandry leads to sperm competition, a male’s mating latency [66]) from the mating pool. A long time out
ability to gain successful fertilizations can be related to the decreases the PRR. In the bushcricket, Kawanaphila nartee,
relative number of sperm, their ability to reach and fertilize males transfer a large spermatophore at mating, consisting
the eggs, displacement of other males’ sperm and preventing of an ampulla that contains the ejaculate and around it a
or delaying female remating. When this competitive edge is protein secretion of the accessory glands. The latter serves
heritable, it should result in competitively superior sons both as paternity guard, protecting the ampulla from being