males emerge or reach sexual maturity before females) and Within polyandrous taxa, male and female genital mor-
extreme mating skew among males. For example, in heliconid phology frequently exhibit strong signals of coevolutionary
butterflies, monandry has resulted in pupal mating [92], change [106-108].
whereby adult males copulate with females before they The degree to which males can displace rival sperm can
emerge from their pupal case. Likewise, in solitary bees, depend on the time they spend copulating with a given
males emerge often several days before females and compe- female [97,109]. In the yellow dung fly, Scatophaga stercoraria,
tition for access to females as they emerge is intense, with males do not use their genitalia to remove rival ejaculates.
the largest males achieving a disproportionate share of mat- Rather, rival sperm are flushed from the female’s sperm
ings [93]. Protandry can also arise under female polyandry, store by their own ejaculates, such that the proportion of off-
if there is a benefit to the male of mating first, such as spring sired by a copulating male rises with diminishing
higher fecundity in young females [94] or first male paternity returns [110,111]. A male’s fitness can depend critically on

advantage, as in the bushcricket Requena verticalis [95]. In fact, the time he spends copulating, the costs of prolonged


copulation in terms of his ability to find and copulate with of ejaculate expenditure [152]. Here, males are assumed to

additional females, and in the case of yellow dung flies the have a fixed energy budget for expenditure on reproduction,
time he spends guarding the female while she deposits her eggs. which can be spent either on acquiring mates (through mate
A variety of forms of mate guarding have evolved in searching, fighting for direct access to females or the
response to polyandry. Behavioural mate guarding is resources they require, or courtship displays and ornamenta-
common across a variety of taxa, including insects [97], tion used to attract females and persuading them to copulate)
birds [101] and mammals [112]. However, mate guarding or on the various ejaculate components that determine male
can also be achieved in ways that do not require the guarding fertilization success (sperm, seminal fluid proteins). Male fit-
male to be physically present. For example, male insects [97], ness is assumed to be the product of the number of matings