in 1974, WHO’s Extended Programme on Immunization (EPI) has been the main tool and driver of childhood immunization
against several diseases including measles. More recently, spurred by the millenium development goals (MDG) to reduce
childhood mortality, the Measles and Rubella Initiative has led to a 71% reduction in measles deaths from 1990 to 2011.
Main challenges include the build-up of susceptibles that are repeatedly missed by campaigns, the need to tailor control strat-
egies to specific demographic and public health contexts, and vaccine refusal in the developed world where incidence has
been very low for decades [22,23].

Meningococcal meningitis. Several bacteria can cause meningitis—a transmissible severe inflammation of the meninges,
or the protective lining around the brain and spinal cord—but Neisseria meningitidis is the one that causes large outbreaks in
the meningitis belt of sub-Saharan Africa. If untreated, it is fatal in half of all cases. Of the twelve serotypes of N. meningitidis,
six are epidemic (A, B, C, W135, X and Y). Conjugate polysaccharide vaccines are available for four serotypes (A, C, W135, Y);
for serotype B polysaccharide vaccines cannot be developed due to antigenic similarity with a polysaccharide in human
neurological tissues (vaccines based on outer membrane proteins are used instead; WHO fact sheet). In 2010 and 2011
more than 55 million persons aged 1 to 29 years in Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger received conjugate vaccine that reduces
carriage and transmission. It is thought that high coverage in this age group can eliminate meningococcal A epidemics in
sub-Saharan Africa, but the main challenges are achieving and maintaining vaccine coverage [24].

Onchocerciasis. Also known as river blindness, onchocerciasis is caused by a parasite Onchocerca vulvus that is trans-
mitted to humans by bites of Simulium flies and is the world’s second-leading infectious cause of blindness (after
trachoma). Microfilariae migrate to the skin and eyes, and after the nematode dies, their endosymbiont Wolbachia pipientis
is released and causes a severe inflammatory response by the human immune system, leading to itching and sometimes
blindness. Transmission can be interrupted by long-term mass administration of ivermectin; a minimum of 15 years of
annual treatment is required, which is challenging especially in remote populations with limited access. Severe adverse
effects to treatment in patients also infected by Loa loa, are an additional complication [15]. Emerging ivermectin resistance
in O. vulvus may be an additional obstacle [25,26].