since the time of selection, that condition will no correlational information available within its own indi-
longer be in place, so the content carried by the gen- vidual experience, but from the developing individual
etic representation will be false. For example, if the reacting to information in its culture. Cultural pro-
selected phenotype depended upon the environment cesses of selection and transmission account for the
being warm, and it has since become cold, then the con- way such cultural variants carry correlational infor-
dition that the selected gene is representing—a warm mation about adaptively-significant facts.
environment—is absent. The genetic material then
continues to represent (falsely) that the environment
is warm and DNA expression and development, in (c) Genetic representation underpins some
accordance with its meta-function, faithfully produces connections between i-properties
a warm-appropriate phenotype as result. That pheno- Genetic representation explains why the properties
type is no longer good for the organism. This failure associated with the concept of innateness cluster
is explained by the fact that the content represented together in some cases. In organisms with little or no
by the zygotic DNA is now false. culture there are two main sources of adaptively-
This account of genetic representation has been relevant information. First, there is information that
developed in detail elsewhere [31-34]. It is not individuals can detect in their developmental environ-
simply a philosophers’ gloss on well-known facts ment in their lifetime. Second, there is the information
about natural selection. It has various explanatory conveyed by genetic representations (and, if they turn
benefits, for example when natural selection makes out to be empirically significant, by epigenetic rep-
choices between relying on genetic or environmental resentations that are carried along with the genome).
information about some fitness-relevant factor A phenotype that develops in reliance on a genetic rep-
[35,36]. For our purposes the key payoff is that it resentation may adaptively match its environment in
offers an explanation of the question we started with: respects that the individual has not detected in its
how the developmental process in an individual man- own lifetime. So there is a connection with poverty
ages to achieve an adaptive match to its environment of the stimulus arguments. The trait can develop in