significant disruption of population structure, extensive migra- endemic, transmission remains ongoing in foci in the
tion and resettlement mean estimates of population figures Amazon rainforest on the border between Venezuela and
are necessarily open to question. The WHO provides annual Brazil where there is limited access, making the indigenous
reports of the total numbers of people treated for each disease Yanomami populations ones who are most at risk [56]. The
and endemic country [6,7] as well the proportion of those trea- major challenge is ensuring high coverage ivermectin treat-
ted compared within the target population. Parker & Allen ment four times a year to mobile populations who live in
[49,50] have questioned the validity of this reporting on the most inaccessible areas. Alternatively, given the goal to stop
basis of studies in Tanzania and Uganda indicating far lower transmission in the Americas by 2015, the newly discovered
coverage in some districts than is reported, possibly due to infected communities could be treated with doxycylcine
inadequate social mobilization and health education. These which might be the most effective way to achieve the endgame.

views were challenged by Molyneux & Malecela [3] based on
the fact that the overall epidemiological results show consistent

impact of MDA in so many settings. Validation of coverage esti- (e) Urban disease elimination

mates is desirable, but detailed coverage surveys require an In contrast to onchocerciasis, lymphatic filariasis and schisto-
ongoing commitment of resources that are likely to increase somiasis are transmitted in urban settings [57], providing a
during the endgame as incidence, prevalence and intensity of different set of challenges for organization of drug distribution
infection fall making monitoring, evaluation and surveillance campaigns. In large cities such as Dar es Salaam, Lagos or
on a large-scale both technically and financially challenging. Accra, where the population exceeds several million people,
The need for culturally appropriate and targeted health edu- reaching a high coverage is both difficult and costly. The
cation is essential if the endgame is to be reached within the major vector of W. bancrofti in East African urban settings
timescales of the WHO roadmap targets. such as Dar es Salaam is Culex, while Culex appears not to
