
gramme remains in its preliminary stages. Current more biologically grounded computational primitives
empirical research provides a detailed exploration of [158]. While we strongly support moves in this direc-
only two particular grammars: the complicated regular tion, it is crucial that they be grounded in empirical
grammar introduced by Reber [83] and since explored data rather than in intuitions or assumptions about
by scores of researchers, and the supra-regular A”B” what computational operations are or are not ‘primi-
grammar introduced by Fitch & Hauser [8] and tive’. For instance, it seems intuitive to humans that
since explored by at least six different research symmetry recognition should be a very simple and
groups. However, there are many other grammars, basic operation, and thus part of the conceptual toolkit
and empirical approaches, worthy of exploration, and of most visually-sophisticated organisms. Years of
we welcome this ongoing broadening of the field. pigeon research demonstrates that this assumption is
Investigations of FSGs such as edge grammars incorrect, and that generalized bilateral symmetry is in
[147,148] and other subregular grammars [16] may fact an extremely difficult concept for these animals to
provide a more detailed dissection of computational attain [74]. A similar point can be made about the diffi-
primitives particularly relevant to animal researchers culty of cross-serial versus nested dependencies in
[59]. For humans, as discussed already, detailed human experiments: while most people’s robust intui-
exploration of other simple context-free grammars tion is that the former should be much easier, what
such as the mirror grammar or copy grammar will few experimental data is available paint a murkier story.
probe the limits of our own pattern-discovery abilities. FLT both allows us to characterize such exper-
Innovative experimental designs will play an important iments in more general terms (e.g. that generalized
role in this—for example, using serial-reaction time symmetry requires a supra-regular grammar) and pro-
tasks and cross-modal auditory/visual AGL [67]. vides an explicit language for notating and reporting

Two further directions immediately beckon. FLT different string types or grammars (as in (AB)” or
has developed considerably in the last decades in two A”B”). FLT also, and more controversially, provides