mic [36]. Endemic malaria has also been highly stable. This ation programmes. An examination of all these cases suggests
bifurcating pattern would seem to contradict the standard that malaria elimination becomes sticky for different reasons
theory of malaria transmission and vector control. If malaria in different countries, and that there is a role for a careful
elimination is in fact a highly stable state, then pursuing it assessment of the feasibility of malaria elimination on a
may not be the endlessly costly, risky strategy that many country-to-country basis.

believe. This finding would be significant for countries con- If it is true that malaria elimination is stable because of
templating elimination and for endgame planning for changes that occur after it is achieved, then malaria eradica-
malaria eradication, but the appropriate application depends tion is not at all like smallpox eradication, and the lessons
on the cause of the stability of elimination. The critical that have been drawn from the sole successful human disease
question is whether economic development or random fluctu- eradication programme should be applied cautiously to
ations caused large declines in malaria transmission, or malaria. The end of routine smallpox vaccination saved
whether changes were in fact caused by malaria elimination. approximately $450 for every dollar invested [112], but vacci-
If malaria elimination requires a spontaneous decline in trans- nation programmes needed to be maintained until the last
mission brought on by economic growth or urbanization, then case of smallpox resolved. Prematurely ending vaccination
programmes should aim to minimize the burden of malaria would have led to loss of ‘herd immunity’ and unacceptable
until transmission spontaneously declines. If, instead, elimin- risks. Thus, the economic benefits of smallpox eradication
ation causes economic development and stability to reduce were only realized after eradication. To put it another way,
transmission by vectors, or if it brings biological and sociologi- if there had not been a last case of smallpox, then there
cal changes that enhance the effect sizes associated with would still be an imminent threat of a smallpox epidemic,
antimalarial drugs so that imported cases have very low prob- and all national smallpox vaccination programmes would
abilities of restarting endemic transmission, then elimination have been maintained. Once the last case was gone, the
is a highly desirable endpoint, and it should be aggressively threat disappeared. Smallpox eradication was, therefore, an

pursued and supported. all-or-nothing affair.