comparative cognition research. Learning theory, in changed. Thus, in theory, subjects that have learned a
contrast, is grounded in behavioural research and simple rule based on visible features will fail transfers,
provides concrete hypotheses that can be readily exam- while those that have abstracted a generalizable under-
ined by empiricists. Indeed, associative learning is standing of the causal structure of the task should
found throughout the animal kingdom and is known to apply it to solve the transfer [36,37]. However, as
play a role in generating even seemingly complex behav- Thornton & Lukas [38] point out, the fact that transfer
iour in both non-human animals and in our own species. tests typically involve the same binary choice over
Nevertheless, associative explanations are sometimes multiple trials means that a subject might learn a rule
overlooked, perhaps as a result of knee-jerk reactions based on the visible properties of the transfer test
to the overambitious claims of behaviourism, leading itself. Thus, subjects may reach a given criterion
to a focus on what Heyes [17] calls ‘super-cognitive’ (say nine correct trials out of ten) using nothing
explanations derived from folk psychological intuitions. but associatively learned rules. Conversely, reliance
In fact, modern learning theory is considerably more on crude binary criteria of success or failure leads us
nuanced than the caricature of behaviourism would to ignore potentially valuable data. Instead, several
suggest. Unlike behaviourism, it does not claim that any- of the contributors to this issue advocate a more
thing can be learned (or that all behaviour is learned), fine-grained analytical approach that focuses specific-
but instead incorporates constraints that limit learning ally on individual differences in performance on a
of coincidental associations and promote learning of __ trial-by-trial basis to shed light on the cognitive mech-
biologically relevant associations. Moreover, learning anisms employed when solving tasks [33,38,39]. Seed
theory has the distinct advantage over folk psychology and co-workers, drawing on insights from developmen-
in that it rests on well-described, general theories such tal psychology, point out that a detailed focus on
as the Rescorla—Wagner [27] and Mackintosh [28] individual behaviour, taking into account failed trials
models. One interesting development discussed by as well as successes, may provide valuable insights
Dickinson [29] is his ‘associative-cybernetic’ theory into why subjects may fail, and the precise mechanisms
[30,31], which postulates that, if embedded in a con- required for success. By using this approach, they show