mitters [2]. We now know that endocannabinoid and habit learning and the basal ganglia [25].
signalling is responsible for both depolarization-induced Diacylglycerol (DAG) is one of the most extensively
suppression of inhibition [15,16] and depolarization- studied second messengers in cells. It is generated by

induced suppression of excitation [17], identifying it the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate
as a powerful and widespread modulator of synaptic in response to the activation of surface receptors that
strength. In his paper, Cachope [18] analyses the include GPCRs and receptor tyrosine kinases [26].
short-term forms of plasticity induced by endocannabi- In addition to its many cellular functions, DAG can
noids that have been described in numerous areas also serve as a substrate for enzymes that generate
and in different organisms, describing not only alternative signalling lipids [27]. One pathway of par-
hippocampus and cerebellum as the scenario for ticular interest invokes the DAGLs which hydrolyse
endocannabinoid action, but also the ECS an ancient DAG to form 2-AG—the most abundant ligand for
mechanism in evolutionary terms. The fact that CB1 and CB2 receptors. Doherty and co-authors
endocannabinoids have been identified as a trigger of [28] describe how DAGL-dependent endocannabi-
long-term plasticity processes has prompted interest in noid signalling participates in synaptic plasticity at
how this system may be implicated in lasting phenom- many levels: it regulates axonal growth and guidance
ena, such as learning and memory, as will be discussed during development; it is required for the generation
again later. Collectively, these observations propose and migration of new neurons in the adult brain; and
that the ECS is very malleable and can establish special- at mature synapses, 2-AG released from post-synaptic
izations that lead to a much wider array of final effects terminals acts back on pre-synaptic CB1 receptors to
than the traditional short- and long-term depression of inhibit the secretion of both excitatory and inhibitory
glutamatergic and y-aminobutyric acid-mediated trans- neurotransmitters throughout the nervous system. It
mission. Not unexpectedly, a neuromodulatory system is intriguing that the DAGLs have functions beyond
with such a wide distribution in the brain would be the cannabinoid receptors, serving as ‘hub’ enzymes
predicted to be altered in numerous diseases and in pathways that generate and/or maintain signalling