mates with whom (and how often). Depending on the average units (local neighbourhoods of solitary individuals, pairs or
number of mating partners of males and females, monog- groups) and among populations owing to different factors
amous, polygynous, polyandrous and promiscuous mating and processes (figure 1). Sources of variation in individu-
patterns can be discerned [34]. A particular mating system al behaviour, which form the basis for variation in social
represents the outcome of the combination of sex-specific structure, have been mainly characterized by students of
reproductive strategies and the resolution of an underlying mechanisms and development [49]. At fertilization, the
sexual conflict. Because of variation in the operational sex unique genetic make-up of an individual is determined by
ratio, age- or condition-dependent mating preferences and combining parental sequences of DNA, some of which have
other factors, individual mating decisions tend to be flexible a function in shaping behavioural patterns after birth. In
both among individuals and across time, but they may also mammals, the sex of an individual, which later on explains
be strongly constrained by aspects of social organization or much individual behavioural variation, is also chromoso-
dominance. For example, in groups of wolves, meerkats and mally determined at this point. During foetal development,
tamarins, only one adult female will typically reproduce, genomic imprinting, ie. the fact that certain genes are
even though several are present [35]. The extent to which mat- expressed in a parent-of-origin-dependent manner [50], may
ings can be monopolized by dominants (of either sex), i.e. the have lasting effects on the development and later behaviour
degree of reproductive skew, is also influenced by several fac- of siblings [51]. Other epigenetic processes that involve modi-
tors, including group size and kinship, so that the outcome fication of DNA sequences that serve to modulate gene
varies not only among, but also within-species [36,37]. expression during pre- or post-natal development can also

Third, social structure is defined as the sum of all social lead to predictable behavioural outcomes later in life [52].
relationships. Each dyadic social relationship is defined by Maternal effects as a result of differential maternal provision-
the quality and patterning of interactions (except matings) ing of eggs with hormones or mRNAs can affect individual
between its members [38]. How an individual interacts with development and post-natal behaviour [53,54]. Social experi-
a particular conspecific depends on numerous factors, includ- ences by the mother, such as stress, can have long-lasting,
ing age, sex, kinship, dominance, personality and condition. sex-specific effects on the behaviour of her offspring, leading