pressure on the environment tends to increase with agricul- recognizes this complexity and determines that only agrono-

tural intensification. Therefore, better land management mists can prescribe pesticides, and that a prescription is
practices beyond legal requirements have to be stimulated necessary for purchasing pesticides at retailers. However, a
and rewarded through special loan and/or subsidy conces- considering the fraction of producers that have private s
sions, recognized through certification systems and selected access to agronomical advice, it is a reasonable argument a
by consumers despite potentially higher costs. that the success of this measure depends on governmental = 2.
Loan concessions are a strong bottleneck for production. extension services. Only the government in its federal, state 3
Therefore, intergovernmental, governmental and_ private and municipal spheres could reach both historical agricul- S
financial institutions have a very important role to play in con- tural areas and distant frontiers with infrastructure and =
ditioning loan concessions (and tax subsidies, in the case of technical advice. At the same time, such extension should © ‘S
national governments) to the implementation of biodiversity- unite the duties of Ministries of Agriculture, of Health and of |= ©
friendly land management practices. In fact, several of the the Environment, with very high societal and environmental 2
world’s largest private financial institutions comprising the return relative to its costs—improving rural economy, reducing =
Equator Bank Initiative [42] already place environmental cri- the worrisome demographic exodus from the countryside to &
teria in analyses of loan concessions. Concession policies, cities, improving human health and decreasing the burden =
however, have to be carefully designed. For example, the Bra- on the public health system and reducing the ecological foot- | =
zilian programme for family agriculture PRONAF provided print of agriculture. The need for investment in this area &
federal loans only to producers who adhered to a predeter- can be illustrated by the observation that even in historically  &
mined package of land management practices, including cultivated areas of the country governmental extension pro- © 8
traditional pesticide management. As a consequence, a positive grammes are insufficient; this vacuum is sometimes filled by 8
association between access to PRONAF credit by smallholders technicians linked to the agrochemical industry (e.g. 80% of =
and consumption of pesticides was found [41,43]. all available technical advice in the state of Rio de Janeiro
Agricultural marketing organizations (e.g. importers and [41,46]). This creates evident conflicts of interest. At the same
distributors of food and supermarket chains) and mullti- time, the chemical industry has a significant fraction of respon-