forms: performance on production tasks, performance on

3. How is tense marking applied once language receptive language tasks and correlational evidence.
has been learned?

Figure 2 shows stages in producing a tense-inflected verb. (a) Past tense inflections in SLI. Language production
This model, which is based on the Words and Rules view (i) Elicitation tasks
of language processing, distinguishes between processing of In a typical elicitation task [13], an introductory sentence is
irregular verbs, which are represented as inflected forms in used, such as ‘Every day I eat some chips. Just like every day,
the lexicon, and regular verbs, where the regular form is yesterday I....’ with the expected completion ‘ate some
assembled by rule [10]. This separation of processing routes chips’. This type of format has been used with regular and irre-
is not universally accepted [11] but will serve the purpose gular verbs, and with novel (nonsense) verbs. Comparison of
here of indicating stages in processing that could be affected these verb types is complicated by the fact that an incorrect
in a child who made errors in inflecting verbs. Problems in response to an irregular verb can take the form of a bare
marking inflections will arise if there is a failure of learning stem or an overregularization (e.g. ‘falled’). As noted by Rice
at any stage—if knowledge of syntax is deficient (step 1), if et al. [14], children with SLI produce correctly inflected irregu-
lexical representations of irregulars are missing (step 2) or lar verbs at a similar rate to typically developing children who
if knowledge of the past tense -ed rule is shaky (step 3). are 2 years younger. However, they are significantly less likely
A key point, however, is that grammatical errors need not than these younger children to produce overregularizations,
be a sign of poor learning: a person may make errors in the instead producing a high proportion of bare stems. If we
course of computing a linguistic representation: at the stage focus only on whether tense is marked in obligatory contexts,
of assigning grammatical features (step 1), looking up an children with SLI show a substantial impairment even relative
entry in the lexicon (step 2), combining a stem with an inflec- to younger control children who are similar on measures of
tion (step 3) or assembling a motor programme to articulate a overall language ability (‘language-matched’ controls). This is
phonological sequence (step 4). a particularly stringent comparison: where age-matched con-