The further diversity of P450s in plants is addressed by explain the current spectrum of CYP genes. This result is
Hamberger & Bak [11] with emphasis on the secondary counterintuitive but examples are given of the same power
metabolites cyanogenic glucosides, glucosinolates, terpe- law describing CYP family distributions in animals that eat
noids, phenylpropanoids and phenolics. We already have a single plant (silkworm), and those that eat hundreds of
noted the importance of plant P450s in specialized roles of different plant species from more than 140 plant families
synthesizing cutins, suberins, lignin and _ sporopollenin. (spider mite). If selective forces were at play one might
P450s dominate the lives of plants by sheer numbers. expect a different result in these two cases. The concept of
Approximately 1 per cent of all plant genes are P450s, often stable and unstable CYP families is explored and rejected.
in large gene clusters created by tandem duplication. Even the CYP51 family, a primary case for stability over a bil-
Hamberger & Bak [11] give examples of how P450s are lion years, has a documented bloom in grasses (the CYP51H
recruited into new chemistries and how pathways are subfamily) that has changed function from a sterol biosyn-
extended by addition of duplicated P450s. The importance thetic enzyme to a role in secondary metabolite synthesis.
of P450 oxidations is illustrated by the fact that of more The element of chance events in the birth or death of genes
than 43000 terpenoids known, 97 per cent are oxygenated. may underlie the vast diversity of P450s that we see, with
Examples are given from the monoterpene, sesquiterpene, evolution acting on what is available at the time. There
diterpene and triterpene classes. Impact on humans is may be less selective pressure acting to create blooms than
dramatic, including the synthesis of the sesquiterpene artemi- has been suggested before, but the end result is nevertheless
sinin by CYP71AV1. Artemisinin is the widely used and very the same, a prodigious biodiversity of cytochrome P450s in
successful antimalarial drug. As the phenylpropanoids and the world.
flavonoids are built from phenylalanine, glucosinolates are My first introduction to the biological diversity on planet
built from tryptophan, phenylalanine and methionine by Earth was from Jules Verne in the form of Prof. Pierre
the CYP79 N-hydroxylases of the CYP71 clan. The resulting Aronnax, a French marine biologist with encyclopedic knowl-
compounds are defensive chemicals against herbivores that edge of every living thing in the sea. He would describe at
release a cyanide bomb, or volatile nitriles and isothiocya- length all the specimens of corals, molluscs, cetaceans and
nates when tissues are damaged. Neofunctionalization and fish that he saw on his journey onboard the Nautilus, includ-