opmental and evolutionary timescales. In their work on the
former, Iriki et al. [59] and Maravita et al. [60] have provided
demonstrations that, following experience with a specific

tool-using task, the brains of both humans and monkeys 6. Conclusion

come to perceive tools as extensions of the individuals’ The ideas collated in this Theme Issue come from researchers
bodies. Looking over evolutionary time, but using a similar working in diverse disciplines, including psychology, ethol-
approach that entails recording how parts of the body are ogy, archaeology, ecology, neuroscience and anatomy. We
mapped onto the brain, Hashimoto et al. [49] present in our believe that continued, and increased, collaboration between
Theme Issue comparative neuroimaging data that address a specialists from these fields is required as we home in on
long-standing conundrum in human evolution: the relative answering fundamental questions about tool use. This said,
timing of the appearance of bipedalism and tool use among the fact that the definition of tool use itself is still being
our ancestors. Did the shift to bipedalism act as a catalyst revised and debated (e.g. [61]) indicates that we have some
for tool use by first freeing up the hands, or did the adoption way to go before we can say that we know why animals
of tool use encourage the shift to upright gait in order to free use tools, and why humans became so dependent on them.
the hands from locomotion? By recording primary sensori- But, without input from the varied fields represented in
motor cortex responses to stimulation applied to individual this volume we are unlikely to resolve these issues at all.
fingers and toes in both monkeys and humans, the authors A critical addition to this point is that we need high-quality
report an interesting difference between the two species in research data from many more tool-using species: studies
their somatotopic representation of the digits. While both that aim to identify commonalities and differences between
species represent fingers as separate units, suggesting a groups or species—in terms of ecological drivers, general
likely adaptation to manual dexterity shared across the pri- cognitive or morphological prerequisites, or the role of
mate lineage, the mapping of the human foot appears to social learning—depend on such comparative data.
