These include slow synaptic currents, channel kinetics and We should also stress that the spectral, oscillator and ramping
short-term synaptic plasticity (STP). These properties are models are mostly limited to relatively simple forms of timing,
referred to as the ‘hidden’ state because they typically for example interval discrimination. It seems unlikely that
cannot be measured using conventional extracellular record- these models are sufficiently flexible and powerful to account
ing methods, but the effects of these time-dependent neural for the timing necessary for speech, music or Morse code.

mechanisms are expressed at the level of firing properties
when the network is ‘probed’ by a subsequent sensory stimu-
lus. SDN models have typically focused on STP as the

principal contributor to the hidden state of neural networks. 3. Temporal selectivity mn vivo

STP refers to a form of use-dependent change in synaptic effi- The fact that many animals are capable of discriminating
cacy that is observed in almost all synapses [50,51]. As a simple intervals or durations indicates that there are neurons
result of STP, the second of two consecutive exciatitory post- in their brains that respond with at least some degree of selec-
synaptic potentials (EPSPs) can be larger (facilitation) or tivity to the temporal features of stimuli. There are numerous
smaller (depression) than the first. In a sense, in the same reports of temporally selective neurons. However, compared
manner that long-term potentiation provides a memory of with the spatial features of sensory stimuli, such as position
coincident activity between groups of synapses that occurred or orientation of visual stimuli, or frequency or intensity of
minutes or hours in the past [52,53], STP provides a auditory tones, very little is known about the location, devel-
memory of an event that happened tens or hundreds of opment and mechanisms underlying temporally selective
milliseconds ago. neural responses.

The hypothesis that the dynamically changing active state of Some of the best examples of temporal selectivity have
neural networks may encode time was first proposed by been performed in invertebrates and non-mammalian ver-