in any retroviral TM outside the avian class, raising the intri- of relatively high conservation [71,72]. In many cases, such as
guing possibility that Ebola virus and Marburg virus with ALV-A and -B variants, the two variants have only a few
originated in an avian species. amino acid changes in the variable region, yet bind cognate
In the case of the arenaviruses, an intriguing parallel to receptors that are quite different from one another in sequence
PyERV (whereby acquisition of a gamma-type env affords a and structure [73]. This situation suggests a strategy in which
mammalian class II retrovirus access to a new host class) is pre- mutational space can be explored via a small variable region
sented. Arenaviruses were previously thought to be limited to within the context of a well-conserved structure. Similarly,
mammals. However, two arenavirus strains were recently iso- within the variants of MLV (i.e. ecotropic, amphotropic,
lated from tree boas and boa constrictors suffering from xenotropic), SU has discrete variable regions near the N-termi-
inclusion body disease [70]. The authors of the study were sur- nus, where the RBD is found, with a rather highly conserved
prised to find that the glycoprotein sequences diverged greatly (64% identity at the amino acid level) C-terminal portion consist-
from those of the known mammalian arenaviruses, and more ing of a proline-rich region (PRR) and the C-terminal domain
closely resembled those of Ebola virus and ALV. In fact, an (CTD) [74]. Contrast this situation with that of the primate lenti-
alignment shows that the ALV TM sequence is 27-29% identi- viruses, where SU varies greatly among different isolates despite
cal and 49-50% similar to the fusion glycoproteins (GP2) of the their use of the same receptor (CD4) [73].
two arenavirus strains. Again, these sequences share with ALV Thus, the relative rates of divergence of SU appear to mirror
a CX6CC motif, the predicted N-glycan positioned at the start those of TM for the gamma-type and beta-type env. This con-
of hr1, and an fp sequence that is flanked by cysteines. The trast in overall divergence within each type further supports
ISD sequence seen in gamma- and avian gamma-type TM, the idea of independent origins or at least divergence from a
however, is not recognizable in the arenavirus sequences. common progenitor far back in evolutionary time.

7. Divergence rates differ markedly between the 8. Concluding remarks

gamma-type and beta-type transmembrane The story revealed by TM sequences in the ERV fossil record
From the fact that gamma-type TM sequences are found is one of significant differences hidden beneath a veneer