two arenavirus strains. Again, these sequences share with ALV Thus, the relative rates of divergence of SU appear to mirror
a CX6CC motif, the predicted N-glycan positioned at the start those of TM for the gamma-type and beta-type env. This con-
of hr1, and an fp sequence that is flanked by cysteines. The trast in overall divergence within each type further supports
ISD sequence seen in gamma- and avian gamma-type TM, the idea of independent origins or at least divergence from a
however, is not recognizable in the arenavirus sequences. common progenitor far back in evolutionary time.

7. Divergence rates differ markedly between the 8. Concluding remarks

gamma-type and beta-type transmembrane The story revealed by TM sequences in the ERV fossil record
From the fact that gamma-type TM sequences are found is one of significant differences hidden beneath a veneer
among multiple vertebrate classes, whereas the beta-type is of similarity. The TM sequences of all Orthoretrovirinae—
limited to mammals, one might expect the gamma-type to excluding the epsilonretroviruses—share a specific domain
be more divergent as a group than the beta-type. In fact, organization and certain features such as a cysteine pair in
the opposite is seen: the gamma-type TM sequences are the ectodomain, heptad repeats, a fusion peptide and a trans-
marked by a high average pairwise identity at the amino membrane region. Given this level of conservation, it is all
acid level, demonstrating low overall divergence, whereas the more striking to discover such intriguingly different
the beta-type TM group as a whole is very diverse, as evolutionary ‘lifestyles’ of retroviral envelope glycoproteins.
shown by low levels of average pairwise identity (table 1). On the one hand is the tightly honed gamma-type,

A collection of lentiviruses, for example, including the maintaining a restrained form while nevertheless adapting
known endogenous forms, represents just one vertebrate to species from five vertebrate classes. Furthermore, the

class and one retroviral genus, yet has an average pairwise gamma-type and its avian variant have participated in multiple

