brane [21,22]. Loss of APC had no effect on the apical in the mechanical properties of cells and the resulting
accumulation of ezrin suggesting that its association with the tissue. A change in mechanical properties could also contrib-
actin cytoskeleton was intact (figure 4e,f). To further character- ute to changes in tissue shape to cause the spheroid
ize the polarity of cells, we stained organoids for Na/K ATPase structures instead of the highly curved crypt bases adjacent
(figure 52,b). The restriction of Na*/K* ATPase to the lateral to an elongated crypt neck. Alternatively or in addition, the
membrane was found in both wild-type and APC" organoids. lower expression of the Nat/K* ATPase in the APC" orga-
Interestingly, the levels of Na* /K* ATPase were higher in dif- noids may not provide sufficient ion exchange to maintain
ferentiated villus-like domains when compared with crypt- the hydrostatic pressure required to keep organoids ‘inflated’.
like domains in wild-type organoids. Other than its confirmed It is not clear whether the inability to organize a normal
expression in gut epithelium, not much is known about the tissue axis after loss of APC is due to the lack of differentiation
differential expression of the Na*/K*ATPase along the and increased proliferation and/or whether changes in cyto-
crypt—villus axis [44,45]. It is possible that cells in the villus skeletal regulation and other processes that loss of normal
require more of the Na* /K* ATPase to maintain the electroche- APC is predicted to cause are to blame [46]. The fact that we
mical gradient because they are challenged by direct exposure did not observe an increase in the nuclear localization of B-cate-
to gut contents and the absorption of nutrients and ions. Cells nin in APC” organoids suggests that although there may be
in the crypt may be sheltered by their position in the invagi- some increase in the transcriptional activation mediated by
nated crypt, which permits accumulation of the viscous -catenin, the hyperactivation of the transcriptional activity
mucus layer produced by secretory cells and shields them of §-catenin that is normally used to explain proliferative
from the effect of gut contents. changes in APC mutant cells is likely not the only driving
The level of Na*/K*ATPase in the APC!" appeared low force for these changes. Instead, it is highly likely that changes
and comparable with that in the crypt-like domains of wild- in both B-catenin-related and non-related APC functions are
type organoids, consistent with the idea that cysts represent responsible. The overall effect is an inability of cells to create
crypt-like regions of the epithelium. This is supported by the tissue organization required to perform normal function
our observation that almost all the cells in the APC" orga- to maintain homeostasis.
noids were proliferative. Finally, we investigated the Using intestinal organoids to determine the link between