the EnhancerFinder enhancer prediction pipeline to the 2649 ncHARs; 773 were cer activity at E11.5 for 24 of 29 (83%) predicted ncHAR
predicted to be developmental enhancers. Among this set, EnhancerFinder pre- enhancers (see electronic supplementary material, table S4
dicted 251 brain enhancers, 194 limb enhancers and 39 heart enhancers. (b) We and figure S1). For 17 of these 24, the expression patterns
compared the predicted fraction of enhancers and tissue-specific enhancers within the major domains of activity (e.g. forebrain, limb),
between the ncHARs, the genome-wide non-coding background, and a filtered were highly consistent and reproducible. Additionally, 16
set of non-coding conserved regions (mammalian phastCons elements). The of the 24 tested ncHARs with EnhancerFinder predictions
NcHARs are dramatically enriched for predicted enhancer, brain enhancer, and of tissue specificity showed enhancer activity in at least one
limb enhancer activity compared with the genomic background; however, they of the predicted tissues. The negative control showed no con-
are not significantly different from the non-coding conserved regions. Supporting sistent activity in any tissue. We also note that some
these predictions, validated ncHAR developmental enhancers (table 2 and elec- enhancer activity was observed for several of the negatives
tronic supplementary material, table $4) show a strong enrichment for brain (see electronic supplementary material, figure S1), so it is
activity, though this may reflect biases in how they were selected for experimental possible that consistent patterns would emerge for these
analysis. The relative lack of heart enhancers may reflect the fact that this tissue sequences if more transgenic embryos were generated at
follows an earlier developmental trajectory than brain and limb. (Online version E11.5 or other developmental stages. In addition to the elec-
in colour.) tronic supplementary material, a searchable database of
images of all transgenic mouse embryos generated in this
significant for an average of 2.17 TFs between human and study is freely available online at http://lighthouse.ucsf.
chimpanzee, and 57% of the ncHARs show significant diver- edu/enhancerbrowser/.
gence for at least one TF (p<0.1). To further characterize
and prioritize the ncHARs with TFBS divergence between .
human and chimpanzee, we also manually analysed the (f) Several non-coding human accelerated
annotations and expression patterns of nearby genes. regions exhibit enhancer activity suggestive of
human —chimpanzee differences
(e) Many non-coding human accelerated We tested each candidate ncHAR enhancer using both the
