Next, we applied genome segmentation and enhancer pre-

In this paper, we used bioinformatics and in vivo assays to diction methods, both based on functional genomics data, to
explore the hypothesis that many ncHARs function as develop- explore indirect experimental evidence that ncHARs are located
mental enhancers. We found strong support for this hypothesis in regulatory regions of the human genome. More than half of
from a number of complementary lines of evidence. First, we the ncHARs showed evidence of enhancer activity in at least
examined the genomic distribution of HARs (a mix of coding one cellular context. We observed a significant enrichment of
and non-coding regions [4,15]) and showed that they are ncHARs among predicted developmental enhancers, particu-
enriched in intronic and intergenic regions of the human larly those predicted to be active in the embryonic brain and
genome compared with conserved elements. Second, we com- limb. Additionally, more than 100 ncHARs are predicted to
piled a collection of 2649 ncHARs (specifically non-coding) be in promoters and other types of regulatory elements. Finally,
from a variety of comparative genomics studies. Despite the we used associations with developmental genes and predicted
fact that each of these studies used different methods and losses and gains of TFBSs to select 29 ncHAR enhancer candi-
sequence alignments and therefore identified many ncHARs dates to validate using reporter gene based enhancer assays in
that were not found in the other studies, the ncHARs from all transgenic mice. We discovered 24 enhancers that are active
four studies are consistently enriched nearby genes with at E11.5 in various embryonic tissues, five of which suggest
annotated functions in embryonic development (figure 1 and different expression patterns between human and chimpanzee.
table 1). However, we note that while the distribution of Combining our results with those from two previous
ncHARs across the genome is somewhat different from all studies of ncHARs [20,21] and the VISTA Enhancer Browser
conserved non-coding elements (figure 2), we found no signi- [35], we conclude that 56 of 88 ncHARs tested to date (64%)
ficant differences in the biological process annotations of are developmental enhancers. Extrapolating our findings to
nearby genes. Thus, many ncHARs are likely to function as the full set of 2649 ncHARs, we estimate that more than 1600
developmental enhancers, but so do a similar fraction of all are developmental enhancers. The true number may, however,

conserved non-coding elements. be lower because the ncHARs that have been validated were