in neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (Arc). The proximal pituitary . ; . . a
enhancer (PPE; green) drives expression to melanotrophs and corticotrophs of becalled the enhancer grammar. Detailed functional dissection | 22
the pituitary (Pit), whereas the distal pituitary enhancer (DPE; purple) is active of different enhancers led to the development of two extreme | 8
in pituitary corticotrophs. A cryptic hippocampal enhancer, cryHE (orange), models of enhancer organization, the (1) enhanceosome and the | &

drives reporter gene expression in newborn neurons of the dentate gyrus (DG) “ bond models Vl The enhanceosome model is derived &
of the hippocampus in transgenic mice. Pomc exons are in black boxes. tom work on an enhancer that triggers interferon-8 (IFN-8) | &
transcription in response to viral infection. Exhaustive analyses = &
of this enhancer found that it is composed of a tight ensemble © S

of binding sites for several TF that need to be present in a pre-

ago [1,8,9]. In fact, as we shall see in §§6 and 7, evidence has accu- cise order and spacing, as even minor mutations that prevent
mulated in recent years showing that mutations in regulatory binding or alter the distance between bound TF cause the
regions are an important source of evolutionary innovation enhancer not to function at all. TF in the enhanceosome thus
[10-13]. Although the relatively rigid genetic code that deter- work synergistically as a unit [28]. By contrast, billboard
mines the amino acid sequence of proteins was deciphered enhancers are composed of TFBS arranged in a looser and
soon after the discovery of DNA structure, the regulatory code more flexible way such that the removal of a binding site
of the genome still remains an unsolved mystery and, as such, diminishes enhancer performance but does not abolish it com-
understanding the complex interplay between regulatory pletely. The enhancer for stripe 2 of Drosophila even-skipped
DNA regions and transcription factors (TF), regulatory RNAs, (eve), for instance, has an arrangement of TFBS for activators
signalling pathways and epigenetic marks that determine gene (Bicoid, Hunchback) and repressors (Krippel, Giant) that,
expression is among the main current challenges of modern mol- when individually mutated, do not abolish its function but
ecular genetics. As our knowledge of the regulatory code rather change stripe width and intensity in transgenic experi-
progresses, the closer we are to understanding how evolution ments [29]. For many enhancers analysed in less depth, there