sg (or probability of winning, in the case of an indivisible resource)
$06) OM of player 2 depends on how much she and her opponent invest
3 in costly conflict. The assumption of cost-free claims is not criti-
= (04 cal to our arguments: Cant & Johnstone [45] show how to build a
2 ‘synthetic’ model which incorporates sealed bids and threats in
= 02 the same framework. In their model, shares of the resource are
determined by a first step in which players invest sealed bid con-
0 02 04 q 06 08 10 flict efforts x and y, but both players can respond by exercising a
player | effort, x threat to break up the group if their share of the resource drops

below a threshold level.
Figure 2. Contest success in a difference form model of evolutionary conflict. Player 1’s threat can deter player 2 from claiming more than
We plot the relative success of player 1 as a function of her effort invested in Perit if player 2 ‘believes’ that player 1 will in fact carry through
conflict x (using the difference form contest success function (3.2) in the on this threat, i.e. if the threat is credible (figure 4a). Credibility
text), for three values of the ‘decisiveness’ parameter d. Player 2 is assumed is a key issue here because exercising a threat (i.e. actually pun-
to invest y = 0.5. The effect of the decisiveness parameter is to change the ishing player 2) may involve some cost u to player 1, so the
marginal benefits of superior effort invested in conflict. Where decisiveness is question arises as to why player 1 would act in a way that
high, a small advantage in conflict effort converts to a large advantage in rela- involves an immediate cost to her fitness. There are a number
tive success. For comparison, the dotted line shows the ratio form contest success of biological mechanisms that can render a threat credible,
function (x/(x + by)) used in Reeve et al.'s [41] tug-of-war model. In difference despite a cost u. First, even in a one-shot interaction, player 1
form models, unlike ratio form models, player 1 can still obtain some success could be selected to carry out the costly punishment if player
even if she invests nothing in the conflict. Other parameter: b = 1. 2’s claim on the resources is so far over Perit that the costs
of allowing the claim are greater than u. Second, in repeated
non-investor in conflict can inherit the resource in the future (as interactions the cost u may be repaid later because carrying
in social queues; [66]). We can also expect decisiveness to be out the threat trains player 2 to exercise more restraint in sub-