implemented soil and water conservation practices 11.2
changed crop varieties 11.0
changed type of crop 9.6
changes in water availability owing to climate 544 built ditches to direct water or floods away from certain areas 18.2
change developed irrigation system for crops 11.6
built a water-harvesting scheme for crops 8.2
built a water-harvesting system for livestock 2.0
built a water-harvesting system for domestic consumption 11
programmes, receiving support from local organizations exacerbate food insecurity and poverty. Climate models suggest
or migrating to another area—were only rarely reported by that Madagascar will experience an increase in mean tempera-
farmers in our study regions. ture of 1.1-2.6°C this century, as well as increases in rainfall
While these coping strategies clearly help to mitigate across the island in summer and increases in rainfall in winter
impacts on farmer livelihoods, the fact that most farmers everywhere except the southeast coast [9]. The destructive
suffer chronic food insecurity suggests that these coping force of cyclones is also expected to increase [9]. In addition,
strategies are insufficient. In addition, there are limits to most climate models show a projected negative impact of cli-
how much different coping strategies can be successfully mate change on crop productivity in Africa models [39,40].
used. For example, off-farm employment opportunities are For example, a recent synthesis of models of the projected
often restricted to the months when fields need to be planted impacts of climate change on agriculture indicated that maize
and opportunities may be limited. Harvesting wild yams to and cassava production will be significantly reduced by mid-
supplement food supplies may be unsustainable in the long century (with mean estimates of an aggregate 22% reduction
run, if farmers overharvest them or if the forest ecosystems in mean maize yields across sub-Saharan Africa, and an 8%
are degraded. In addition, if all households in a given village reduction for cassava; [40]). These changes will probably place
are impacted by a cyclone, farmers are unable to turn to neigh- farmers under additional stress, both owing to direct reductions
bours or family members living in the same region to borrow in agricultural productivity and through impacts on human
money, as these households will similarly be in need of sup- health, infrastructure and availability of firewood and other