ponents of LTP involve nuclear protein synthesis (for = S

lead to localized upregulation of GSK-38 and a consequent
internalization of synaptic AMPA receptors and reduction
in spine size.

example, the products of immediate early genes such as cfos = 5
and zif268). This poses the problem of how input specificity
is maintained at individual synapses in the face of cell-wide
distribution of new proteins. An idea, known as the synaptic

(d) Metaplasticity tag and capture hypothesis, has been advanced to explain
An intriguing aspect of synaptic plasticity is the fact that past this conundrum. The idea is that activated synapses are
activity can radically alter the properties of plasticity produced tagged by appropriate local activity to sequester neuron-
by a given stimulus protocol. This impact of past activity is wide plasticity-related proteins. Bito and co-workers [15]
called metaplasticity and it can be expressed in both homo- review the extensive literature and posit that a key pathway
synaptic and heterosynaptic pathways. Abraham & co-workers involves calcium calmodulin-dependent kinases (CaMKs)
[12] examine an example of heterosynaptic metaplasticity, in and the transcription factor CREB. They also describe how
which priming stimulation of afferent fibres projecting to the the immediate early gene Arc may function in a reverse
basal dendrites of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells modifies tagging phenomenon that weakens inactive synapses. Israely
the LTP produced by subsequent tetanic stimulation of fibres and co-workers [16] also discuss the role of protein synthesis
projecting to the apical dendrites. The authors find no evidence in synapse strengthening and weakening, with an emphasis
of the involvement of intracellular messengers, but note that on the consequences for structural plasticity. Their work
Ca?* concentration in astrocytes in the heterosynaptic domain illustrates how the multi-photon confocal microscope is com-
is elevated following the priming stimulus. Gap junction inhibi- plementing more traditional intracellular and patch recording