PKC-mediated phosphorylation of Ser880 on GluA2, the The observation that neuronal activation history can affect | ©
binding of PICK1 to internalized GluA2/AMPARs. This the direction of future plasticity in visual cortex gave rise tothe |S
then interferes with the reinsertion of GluA2/AMPARs into concept of metaplasticity, a theory about the ‘plasticity of plas) = S
the extra-synaptic membrane, and thus contributes to the ticity’ [70,71]. According to this model, a moving modification 5
loss of synaptic potentiation [59,64]. threshold determines the direction of synaptic plasticity, in
Whether LTP decays or persists may thus depend that, depending on its current setting, the same amount of
critically on NMDAR activation. These receptors have been synaptic stimulation can induce processes that increase or
implicated as key elements of homeostatic processes, i.e. decrease synaptic potentiation, such as LTP, LTD and depoten-
metaplasticity and synaptic scaling, that control synaptic tiation. For example, prolonged stimulation can set the
potentiation dynamics. modification threshold to a point at which the very stimulation

frequencies that had induced LTP will no longer increase
synaptic potentiation, but might in fact cause synaptic

5. Homeostatic processes and decay of synaptic depression [72,73]. This way, runaway potentiation or reversal

of potentiation due to feed-forward mechanisms inherent to

potentiation LTP and LTD can be averted, in order to prevent eventual
Out of the many possible mechanisms involved in homeo- synaptic saturation or silencing [74]. On the other hand, the
static regulation of synaptic potentiation, two seem more threshold might be set such that stimulation prevents most
relevant to the question why E-LTP and L-LTP may decay forms of synaptic plasticity, and thus ‘locks’ the synapse at a
over time. Given the temporal dynamics, synaptic downscal- certain level of potentiation, which could be a mechanism to
ing, operating on the time scale of hours (and sometimes preserve critically important memories [75].
days), appears as a possible process involved in the decay NMDA receptors have emerged as major regulators of