in a small number of layer II piriform cortex neurons. Thus, the training quadrant as the controls, demonstrating that
there is only minimal NMDAR ablation in cortex. As they knew as much about the spatial location of the platform.
expected, no NMDAR-mediated responses could be evoked Thus, we argued that this was not a spatial learning deficit
at CA3-to-CA1 synapses in dorsal hippocampal slices from but rather it reflected an inability to use the spatial cues to
adult GluN1°?°! mice, and LTP could not be induced in behaviourally inhibit the very strong conditioned response
the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway. An unexpected to swim towards the first beacon that the mice encountered.
side effect of the mutation in the GluN14?°“! mice was an Asimilar account could explain the impairment on the reference
atrophy of the granule cell layer in the DG of these animals. memory radial maze task, where the animals might use the
Nevertheless, these mice provide an alternative tool for extramaze spatial cues to inhibit the very strong conditioned
testing the hippocampal LTP/spatial memory hypothesis. response that they have acquired to run down any arm of
Strikingly, these GluN1*?°°? mice acquired the classic, the maze to obtain food rewards (see [12] for discussion). Impor-
open-field, spatial reference memory watermaze task as well tantly, the deficit on the watermaze discrimination task was
as controls [12]. In fact, on the transfer (probe) test at the end specific to the situation that arose when the beacons were ambig-
of watermaze training, the knockouts actually spent more uous (i.e. when two visually identical beacons were used). There
time searching in the training quadrant than the controls. The was no deficit when there were two visually distinct, and hence
inclusion of a hippocampal lesion group confirmed that our unambiguous, beacons.
watermaze paradigm was still hippocampus-dependent. Fur- Consistent with this account, we showed that the increased
thermore, the fact that the GluN14?°°4! mice appeared to number of choice errors in the GluN1“°°“! mice specifically
outperform the controls during the transfer tests, often seen reflected their performance on trials when they were started
as the gold-standard measure of watermaze performance, from a position at the edge of the pool which was in close proxi-
rules out the possibility that the lack of a deficit was simply mity to the decoy (S—) beacon. We therefore argued that this
due to the task not being sensitive enough. Thus, these data was not a problem with memory acquisition or encoding but
suggested that hippocampal NMDARs are not in fact required rather with behavioural inhibition. In this study, we have
for forming long-term, associative spatial memories. now tested this hypothesis further by training mice on the
However, the GluN14°°™! mice were impaired when the spatial discrimination watermaze task but with all trials start-