activation of higher affinity NMDARs is supposed to be much NMDARs is less prominent inside the cleft. Indeed, the
less sensitive to the distance from the glutamate release site com- NMDAR current was also sensitive to both adding NMDARs

pared with lower affinity AMPARs [18,35,36], our simulation to the PSD and to NMDAR clustering, although the difference


between the two effects was somewhat less striking compared whereas electrophysiological indicators point to a virtually

with that in the case of AMPARs (figure 3a—c). Similar to the immediate synaptic efficacy increase following LTP induction.
case of AMPARs, varying the release site location reduced the Indeed, it is reasonable to think that structural rearrangement
average amplitude of NMDAR current while increasing its varia- on the nanoscale is likely to occur more rapidly than changes
bility (figure 3d). At the same time, the effect pertinent to LTP associated with molecular transport over macroscopic dendritic
expression remained qualitatively similar (figure 3d). Again, a compartments. Thirdly, the fact that some of the molecular cas-
systematic exploration of synaptic parameters provided intuitive cades responsible for AMPAR trafficking have been found as a
clues as to what type of changes in the NMDAR expression or prerequisite for LTP expression as such might also reflect an
pattern could produce the fastest, and thus arguably the most important role of the same molecular machinery for nanoscale
‘efficient’, alteration in the NMDAR current (figure 3e). AMPAR clustering.

Our results suggest that activation of high-affinity NNDARs
is also sensitive to the clustering inside the synaptic cleft. It is
4. Discussion tempting to speculate that this mechanism could, in principle,
contribute to activity-dependent changes in NUDAR-mediated
postsynaptic Ca** entry. The latter in turn could affect local
conditions for Ca”*-dependent plasticity. NMDARs are thought
to undergo much slower macro- and microscopic movements