familiar respiratory chain, notably quinones, the Q cycle, tials near or exceeding O2 must have been involved at the S
and cytochromes b and c, arose later. This interpretation is very earliest stages of chemical evolution [210,211], and in
supported by the remarkable homology of several subunits the latest formulation entailing oxidant-driven methane oxi-
of complex I to the proteins discussed here: FeFe trimeric dation as the first step towards the synthesis of organic
hydrogenases, NiFe hydrogenases, ferredoxin-reducing sub- molecules [212]. A severe problem with that view, though, is
units, Ech and Na‘/H* antiporters [202]. The only further that it demands that existence of a 1:1 molar ratio of high-
subunits required for true complex I function were quinone potential acceptors for every organically incorporated carbon
and NADH-binding subunits. We discuss the origin of qui- atom at the onset of primordial biochemistry; that would
nones and cytochromes in §13, but it seems likely that they shift the oxidation state of such an environment dramatically.
did indeed arise after Ech and Na*/H* antiporters. In this This is especially true when one recalls that at the onset of
case, it is also noteworthy that complex I itself possesses biochemistry, there was little or no specificity in catalysis,
some of the same Na‘/H* promiscuity [206] as Ech and such that a vast molar excess of ‘non-biogenic’ (side product)
the ATP synthase do. The fact that the proton-motive force is reduced carbon compound was required for the synthesis of
more universal today than the sodium-motive force probably every ‘biogenic’ (biologically useful) one [43]. The conse-
derives from evolutionary interpolation of quinones—which quence is that in the presence of abundant high-potential
are always coupled to proton-dependent redox reactions—on acceptors of the type that methane oxidation [212] would
these earlier, necessarily promiscuous origins [205]. demand, organic synthesis would probably just ‘go up in
Thinking things through, one additional aspect comes to smoke’ being pulled towards CO3. The reason is because
the fore that is not immediately related to energetics. amino acid synthesis and cell mass synthesis, while requiring
Namely, if the transition to the free-living state was truly little if any energy input or even being exergonic under
independent in the archaebacterial and eubacterial lineages, strictly anoxic hydrothermal vent conditions [36], become
as we suggest, then prokarytic cell division well could be pre- extremely endergonic even under very mildly oxidizing con-
dicted to have arisen twice independently. A look at the ditions, such as microoxic conditions corresponding to only
comparative genomics of cell division in archeabacteria and 1/1000th of present oxygen levels [35].
eubacteria provides evidence for the ubiquity of the FtsZ- Specifically, the synthesis of cell mass requires 13-fold