and these will differ in novel environment but not in

familiar environments, 6. A possible physiological implementation

(4) Because of the inhibitory ‘force’ coming from the bound- A possible physiological mechanism underlying the field—
ary, we predict some inhibitory neurons firing only at the boundary interaction model is outlined in figure 4. Here,
border (inhibitory border cells) and projecting to CA1 the field-like inputs are received from competing place cell net-
place cells. These projections could come either from works which are all connected to each other via inhibitory
mEC [23] or from subiculum [24]. interneurons. Afferent place cells with adjacent fields compete

(5) Grid cells with different scales should respond differently with each other till only the ones firing at distance approxi-
to the geometry of the environment. This is owing to the mately rscale remain active. Additionally, boundary cells from
fact that the shape of the force-tuning curve (equation subiculum or mEC [25,26] project to the local place cell inhibi-
(2.1); figure 1d) will vary with different grid scales. tory network selectively inhibiting as a function of distance

(6) The insertion of the boundary into a square environment to the boundaries. Alternatively, a new cell type, inhibitory
should result in the shift and rearrangement of grid fields boundary cells, could send projections to place cells. Indirect
away from the inserted boundary. The degree of rearrange- observations suggesting the existence of the inhibitory bound-
ment should depend on the ratio between the length of the ary cells come from the recordings of ‘boundary-off cells’ [24].
inserted boundary and the grid scale. Grid cells with very If our model is correct, it suggests that place cells form a pri-
small scale compared with the boundary size should be mary substrate of spatial representation generated by sensory

perturbed mostly in the vicinity of the boundary, whereas cues (as in [15]) and/or self-motion cues (as in [19]). We predict

