sensitive to self-other discrimination (see also below). is shown also by canonical neurons, motor neurons firing
All of our social relationships can be lived and experi- both during object manipulation and object observation),
enced in different ways. What changes is our attitude one should clarify what the neural reuse notion entails.
towards others. The German philosopher and theologian Third, the present hypothesis proposes the centrality of
Martin Buber (1878-1965), a precursor of the second-person action and of the motor system in generating the bodily
perspective on intersubjectivity, in his seminal book I and self. However, MMs and ES are not confined to the domain
Thou (Ich und Du, [74]) posited that human interpersonal of action, because they can be detected also with emotions
relations can be third-person relations, i.e. [-it (and I-She, and sensations. How can this evidence be reconciled with
I-He) or second-person relations, i.e. -you. We can relate to the centrality of motor cognition? Finally, how and why are
the same individual like a thing among other things or like the MMs and ES relevant to the specific issue of self/other
our beloved one. Even our beloved one, though, occasionally similarity and difference?
can be for us a ‘She’ or ‘He’ or even an ‘it’, an object. The Let us address first the debated primacy either of the self
other can in fact be conceived of as an instrument, for or of intersubjectivity in social cognition. It was proposed
example by informing us about some state of affairs in that the perception of the other is what leads to a sense of
the world, or by helping us through those affairs. In other embodied selfhood; in other words, according to this view,
words, one can relate to another human being similarly to it would be the other to model the self and not the self to
when one relates to inanimate objects. Thus, the choice is model the other. Tomasello [86], among others, when propos-
not between a second- and third-person perspective, because ing the notion of ‘shared intentionality’, seems to endorse this

as human beings we clearly entertain both. We are beginning perspective and explicitly advocate the primacy of social


cognition on the cognitive development of the individual. commitment of sensorimotor neural resources to language

According to Tomasello, social interactions leading to and conceptual thought. Sensorimotor systems, originally