they only detected 8% of unattended targets. While experi- which are under voluntary control, and the involuntary allo-
ments such as these would provide support for one or the cation of limited-capacity perceptual resources proves useful.
other theory, no consistent pattern emerged. Thus, while the On views that equate attention just with the top-down atten-
early versus late selection debate stimulated much research, it tion settings, the findings that irrelevant stimuli (for which
remained unresolved for many decades (for reviews, see [6—8]). the top-down attention settings are ‘to ignore’) can nonetheless

reach awareness in conditions of low load may be taken as
evidence for awareness without attention. However, with the

(b) Load theory mechanistic definition of attention in load theory in which
Load theory of attention [9,10] has offered a resolution to this selection will depend on whether capacity limits are reached
debate by viewing the question in a different light, applying or not, it is clear that in conditions of low load all stimuli
a capacity approach which has been rather overlooked in pre- are in fact attended, including those specified as irrelevant.
vious theories of selective attention (for discussion, see [8]) to Thus in load theory, there cannot be awareness without the
understand the relationship between selective attention and allocation of limited-capacity attention; however, attention
perception. According to load theory, perceptual processing cannot be equated with intention or the top-down attentional
has limited capacity but proceeds automatically in an involun- selection settings.

tary, mandatory manner on all information within its capacity. Of course, following the basic rules of propositional logic,
It follows, therefore, that in attended tasks involving a large ‘no awareness without attention’ does not imply ‘no attention
amount of information, in other words high perceptual without awareness’ nor that attention will always lead to
load, capacity is fully exhausted by the processing of the awareness. The allocation of attentional resources to stimuli
attended information, resulting in no perception of unattended may not always be sufficient to bring them to awareness,
information. By contrast, in tasks of low perceptual load, and depriving a stimulus of attention may alter its sensory
because perception cannot be voluntarily stopped, spare processing at even an unconscious level (we describe direct