reduced in conditions of higher load. of high socio-biological significance (e.g. faces) are inherently
In further support of this conclusion are the findings primed and so require a lower activity threshold to be per-
that the disappearance of a target owing to an artificial ceived. Feedback loops between inferior temporal cortex

scotoma (i.e. the process of filling in with a dynamic noise and earlier regions can sensitize the early regions (e.g. striate


cortex) to detect patterns consistent with these primed stimuli, 5. Perceptu al load and the contrast

allowing them to reach awareness under conditions of reduced

availability of attention that typically would preclude awareness response function
for other objects. The fact that phenomena of subjective blindness under high
However, if all perceptual processing is subjected to perceptual load are also associated with neural modulations
capacity limits, as load theory proposes, including stimuli of primary visual cortex raises the interesting possibility that
of socio-biological significance, then processing of even perceptual load effects might be akin to turning down the
these stimuli should be impacted by sufficiently high load. contrast of a stimulus. This, then, would be a fundamental
In other words, if high perceptual load reduces both the limit on awareness; perceptual load may turn down the contrast
signal in one area and weakens the strength of vertical con- of an unattended stimulus rendering it less visible. If this were
nections that mediate feedback loops between areas, then the case, then it could explain the various phenomena of
awareness for primed stimuli would also be reduced when load-induced blindness described above. To investigate this
the load is high enough. Indirect support for this suggestion possibility, we examined the effects of perceptual load on the
comes from the findings that awareness of natural scenes contrast response function (CRF). By plotting the psychometric
does depend on attention in tasks that appear to involve a function relating stimulus contrast to discrimination sensitivity
higher level of perceptual load (e.g. higher set sizes or more under different levels of load, we can establish how percep-