the subjective awareness of these stimuli appears to be able to modules of SB reorganized into a structure representing the
be increased by training procedures (e.g. [61,72]). (visual) world of the present day.

The effect of ‘training’ and experience can also be As previously mentioned, perceptual algorithmic modules of
demonstrated in contexts which are more likely to cause modi- the lowest level are under normal circumstances likely to receive
fications within perceptual algorithmic modules (of various activation from PEFs associated with multiple sensory modal-
levels). If part of the somatosensory input is lacking, thereby ities. Thus, within the framework of REF CON, multimodal
leaving part of the somatotopic representation ‘vacant’, a perceptual phenomena such as the McGurk illusion [80] can
reorganization of this representation will occur. If, for instance, easily be accounted for. The McGurk illusion (the fact that audi-

a hand is amputated, the contralateral somatosensory represen- tory perception of syllables is modified by simultaneously
tation will undergo a change in which the two representations watching a face pronouncing a different syllable) reflects the
(the face and arm, respectively) neighbouring the now ‘vacant’ fact that even when consciously perceived as a purely auditory
hand area will ‘grow’ and eventually completely cannibalize process, auditory perception of spoken language is in reality a
the area previously representing the now amputated hand multimodal process whenever relevant visual information is
(e.g. [73-75]). Thus, within the somatotopic representation, available. Some of the neural mechanisms associated with this
the area previously receiving input from the now absent hand multimodality are presently being analysed (e.g. [81]) and such
will become activated by input from body-parts previously an analysis may provide cues regarding the neural networks
unable to activate this part of the somatotopic map. In terms mediating the associated perceptual algorithmic modules.

of the present model, PEFs which were originally activated by Since the perceptual algorithmic modules involved in
input from the hand will now become activated by input various types of perceptual analysis are constantly subjected
from, for instance, the face. Although the actual input activating to use-associated feedback and potentially backpropagation-
the previous somatosensory hand-representation is now orig- provoked reorganizations, REF CON predicts that plastic pro-
inating from another body-part, the individual may for a cesses are able to allow not only reorganizations within a