
the state of an ecosystem that occur close to bifurcation

points [21]. Mathematically, critical transitions are associated (b) Slow—fast cydic transitions

with bifurcation points. At a bifurcation, the current ecosystem Some systems have intrinsic cycles caused by the interaction
state becomes unstable and the system jumps to an alternative between fast and slow variables. Such cycles tend to have rela-
(usually radically different) state. Here, we look at local bifur- tively abrupt transitions but although these can be loosely
cations with eigenvalues that smoothly diminish to zero, like attributed to tipping points, the alternative ‘states’ in such
a saddle-node, transcritical or a Hopf bifurcation. The reason cycles are not stable. Instead, each time the ecosystem shifts,
why we can anticipate a critical transition in advance lies in a negative feedback starts to operate ‘moving’ environmental

the fact that prior to a bifurcation point small disturbances conditions backwards till a shift to the previous state takes


Box 1. The relationship between resilience, CSD and early warnings.

Ecological resilience (ecR) depends on the distance to the border of the unstable manifold in state space (ds) and on the dis-
tance to the critical threshold (dp) in parameter space [ecR = f(ds,dp)] (a). We can approximate ds as the distance to the border
of the attraction basin and dp as the height h of the attraction basin to the alternative state (b,c). Recovery rate (recR) (or engin-
eering resilience) depends on the slope of the basin of attraction, which is defined by ds and dp [recR = dp/ds]. This slope can
be approximated by the eigenvalue |A| which determines the stability of the current equilibrium of the system [recR=|A|].
CSD occurs as the system approaches the threshold, dp becomes smaller, recovery rate decreases and ecological resilience
declines. Although ecological resilience is not approximated completely by |A|, CSD indicates the progressive shrinking of
the basin of attraction of the current state. Moreover, the dynamics of the monitored ecosystem differ radically far from