hydro-climatic factor. ship between biological variability and hemispheric warming.

All the regions but one (Ligurian Sea) were related to this com-
; ; ponent (table 3). As global temperature did not rise
(b) Question 2: Are there large-scale mechanisms that continuously, but increased in a stepwise manner in 1977,

i iat; 1987 and 1997 [19], with an especially large rise in the late
can force synch fonnous ecological reorganizations 1980s [91], it could be the primary driver behind all observed

around the Northern Hemisphere? shifts. The spatial correlations between this PC and hemi-
To address this question, we analysed the first three PCs orig- spheric SSTs (figure 7a) support the idea that hemispheric
inating from the PCAs performed for each ecosystem to temperature trends may serve as a large-scale synchronizing
reveal the NH biological state (BioPC), together with climate agent. In fact, SSTs are highly and positively correlated with
indicators (NHT, AO, PDO and AMO) and with long-term this PC in all basins. Such geographically extended correlations
spatial variations in NHTs and SLPs. These variables were strengthen the case for teleconnections across ocean basins.
chosen because previous studies have suggested that temp- How subtle changes in temperature may involve such sub-
erature may affect the biogeographical distribution of many stantial biological reorganizations has been investigated, and
pelagic organisms [7,69], while changes in the main pressure recent studies suggest that such shifts can arise from the non-
centres can influence ocean circulation and the biological linear interaction between the ecological species niche (sensu
processes [41,43,88—90], as well as local temperature [6]. Hutchinson) and temperature-induced environmental changes

We searched for potential lags in the responses of all regions [84,92-94]. Simulating a species assemblage having all poss-
to large-scale hydro-climatic forcing but no lag was observed ible thermal niches in the North Sea, these studies showed
using cross-correlation analysis and cross-correlograms. that when temperature increases (or decreases) rapidly, such
