Bronze Age site, we cannot draw any conclusions whether showing noblemen on such horses [3]. There is also a docu- S
the high frequency of the LP allele observed at Kirklareli— mented increase in the frequency of the leopard complex w
Kanligecit was a general feature of domestic horses at this phenotype in the breed Noriker during the Baroque Age, ©&
time or specific to the breeding practices and population of which was achieved by crossbreeding with Spanish horses ©
this specific site. However, the LP phenotype seems likely [34], with the goal to breed exotic coloured gala horses. 3S
to have been rare or even absent from the gene pool of dom- During the following centuries, the LP phenotype went out = &
estic horses later during the Bronze Age, as we found no of fashion and became very rare again, along with all other
evidence for it in later Bronze Age horses. It is possible that white spotted phenotypes [34]. Today, breeding efforts have
once farmers became aware of the difficulties of rearing intensified again in favour of white spotted phenotypes
night blind animals, which may have been easy targets for owing to a growing interest in their restoration, and LP phe-
predation and theft as well as difficult to handle under low notypes are found in many breeds testifying to their
light conditions, they selected against them. This argument popularity [35]. Assuming that this picture of alternating
is supported by two facts: (i) genetic drift alone is unlikely selective regimes holds also true for other loci, it might
to explain the absence of the LP allele during the late explain how genetic diversity was maintained in domestic
Bronze Age (p= 0.0081; see the electronic supplementary populations at all times despite extensive selection for specific
information); and (ii) the estimated selection coefficient in traits during certain time periods.

addition to negative selection owing to CSNB was also
strongly negative for this time period (—0.5176, 95%

. Acknowledgements. We thank Heinz Hack: id The Hack-
CI= —1.0 to —0.05). Both factors argue for active human- ‘ cag 5 Me Hank being Hackmann an omas hac

mann, Werpeloh, Germany, for providing samples and
