
and more distant relationships such as cousins, uncle and niece logroup like most of the other Y-haplotypes carried by the
or aunt and nephew, grandfather and granddaughter or grand- ancient Yakuts. It appears to be the ancestral haplotype as a
mother and grandson...). The observed inconsistencies revealed by the MJ network (electronic supplementary s
thereby substantially increased the difficulty in establishing material, figure S1) which shows the other N1cl—Tat haplo- a
with certainty the precise familial relationships among the types clustering around it. This star-like expansion, also 2
ancient Yakuts. observed with present-day Yakut populations, has been inter- 5
In order to accurately identify individual family mem- preted as evidence of a dramatic decrease of the effective =
bers, a new commercially available autosomal STRs kit was population size, possibly owing to a strong founder effect =
used. Increasing the number of typed autosomal STR loci 18,2325]. It is noteworthy that, even though the prevalent ‘S
to 21 resulted in the complete discrimination of true ancient haplotype has been transmitted to the present-day ©
parent-—offspring relatives versus more distant relatives (elec- Yakuts [26], it has not been found in all populations available — =
tronic supplementary material, table S2, part in blue). This ‘or comparison, a fact which may hint at a limited male gene =
result shows that the 15 forensic STR loci were not sufficient flow from Yakuts to neighbouring Siberian populations. S
to definitively discriminate between pairs of close relatives The observed low level of Y-chromosome diversity in the -
and unrelated individuals in our ancient human sample. ancient Yakuts contrasts with the quite high diversity of 2
The resulting lack of resolution can be illustrated by a study the maternal lineages. The mtDNA sequences used for identi- S
performed 8 years ago on two Yakut individuals (SS1 and ying maternally related individuals (including mother—son, w
SS2) from the Sytygane Syhe burial site [4]. The autosomal ull-siblings, maternal half-siblings and maternal uncle- 2
STR analysis suggested that a father-son relationship nephew) can be classified in two types of haplotypes: ©
between SS1 and SS2 was highly probable (LR = 283). Subject igh-frequency ones (belonging to haplogroups C and D 3S
SS1 (an adult male) would be the father, and subject SS2 (an which occur at similar frequencies and together account for =
immature male) his son. In this previously published study, it almost 75% of the gene pool) and low-frequency ones (hap-
was noted that ‘the absence of data for the historical allelic logroups A, B, G, F, H, J, T, W or Z) which contribute to the
frequencies of the originating population constitutes a bias overall high diversity. Although Y-STR typing provides evi-