males, the presence of a dominant paternal lineage hampered might have contributed to a reduction of the paternal but
a fine-scale resolution of the kinship. As an example, in the not the maternal lineages. Nevertheless, the overall reduced
Shamanic tree 1 family, the maternal uncle (ST1—4) had autosomal diversity observed also indicates a substantial
the same Y-haplotype (defined by 23 STR loci) as the two level of inbreeding possibly owing to a biased reproductive
young children (ST1—1 and ST1-—5; electronic supplementary success in men (only a few of them father most of the
material, table S4) and therefore might have been considered offspring) or to consanguineous marriages. However, no

as their father in the absence of autosomal data. heterozygote deficiency was observed in our ancient sample.


Therefore, the puzzle is far from being fully resolved. The STR marker sets routinely used in forensic practices. Our | 8 |

fact that the Yakut population was severely depopulated by study clearly shows that to reduce the risk of adventitious
smallpox and tuberculosis epidemics after the Russian coloni- matches and to build a clear picture of biological relation- a
zation could moreover add further complexity to the analysis ships within ancient human groups in the absence of s
of the gene pool structure of the Yakuts [30]. The exact story parental information, it is absolutely essential to combine a
of the Yakuts therefore remains incomplete, and further information from diploid and haploid loci and to increase = 2
research is needed to fully elucidate the genetic evolution of their number. In addition, because geographical and tempo- “5
the Yakuts. ral differences between ancient samples make observations

of genetic differentiation difficult to interpret, it is essen- = =

tial to combine archaeological, cultural, biological and ‘2
5. Conclusion historical data. More robust interpretations of ancient DNA ‘©
This study is part of a long-term project devoted to the his- data could be gained by a multidisciplinary study. Such =