used a finer categorization of turn-taking, based on pragmatic inhale but wanted to keep the turn, they took more rapid inha-
function. Even though our analyses of synchronization were lations in order to reduce pauses and prevent the other speaker
limited to the labelling of the breathing cycle and were not from taking the turn. When taking a breath and taking the
continuous, they provide further evidence of inter-personal turn successfully, breathing cycles were similar in duration
temporal coordination of breathing at turn-taking. In particu- and asymmetry for smooth turns and interruptions. When
lar, we provided evidence that successful interruption rested butting-in, however, the breathing cycle was shortened in com-
on a clear anticipation of inhalation. This appeared as a clear parison to successful interruptions, suggesting that subjects
peak in the coordination index, with inhalation onset starting quickly reverted to a listener role when their attempt to take
at approximately 70% of the interlocutor’s breathing cycle. the turn failed.
The profile for the coordination index did not show a com- The current study involved only female speakers conversing
parably high peak when a turn was taken smoothly, but a with two different partners. Subjects and partners exchanged
tendency to start inhalation in the last part of the exhalation dialogue in a cooperative fashion, both being actively involved
phase of the interlocutor’s breathing cycle. This suggests that in the task. Despite the fact that the two partners were members
interruptions could be planned more systematically than of the laboratory, and so were not totally naive with regard to the
smooth turns and that frequent interruptions in dialogue [30] purpose of the experiment, the dialogues were globally fluid
could also be related to issues in breathing control. and balanced. Dialogues with Partner 2 were, however, charac-
In this study, approximately half of the turns were rea- terized by more interruptions, or interruption attempts, as
lized on a single breathing cycle and most turns involved compared with dialogues with Partner 1 (table 1). This could
one to three breathing cycles. Moreover, most of the success- be explained by differences in professional status and age (Part-
ful turns started at the onset of the exhalation phase: subjects ner 1 was a researcher and Partner 2 was a PhD student). Partner
tended to take a breath just before taking their turn. These 2 also breathed faster than Partner 1, but this difference in part-
findings suggest that interlocutors may use the breathing ner breathing rate did not affect subject breathing rates. Further
cycle as a unit to anticipate the next turn and that turn con- studies are required to investigate more systematically how
structions are not independent of physiological processes. If inter-personal adaptation of breathing occurs during dialogue,
Guaitella [34] suggested that the dialogue rhythm could and how it could sustain the variety of inter-personal alignment