wood and struggles to complete each stroke so that the even account of the history).
intervals in the cycle break down, the event remains rhythmic Historically, there were a number of responses to the disap-
under the contrastive view, but not the coordinative (periodic pointing outcome to the quest for isochrony as validation of the
or temporal) view. When the heart behaves in a correspond- syllable-timed~stress-timed dichotomies which had so crisply
ingly erratic fashion, we get what is tellingly termed ‘cardiac focused thinking on speech rhythm; and by no means did
arhythmia’. The patient with palpitations may or may not the failure of the quest bring about a decline in interest in
be comforted to know that as long as systoles and diastoles speech rhythm. Disobliging acoustic data could be circum-
are broadly alternating, the heart’s behaviour still fulfils the vented by attributing isochrony to perception rather than the
contrastive definition of rhythm. speech signal—in other words, relegating isochrony to the
In what follows we will comment on selected aspects of the mental rather than acoustic sphere; Lehiste [10,11], for instance,
study of speech rhythm within (and beyond) the context of cites a variety of evidence to support her claim that it is ‘quite
dichotomy between coordinative and contrastive rhythm. likely that the listener imposes a rhythmic structure on
First, we will deal with existing evidence against isochrony in sequences of interstress intervals in spite of the fact that their
speech and review briefly the history and application of durational differences are well above threshold’ [10]. This, inci-
rhythm ‘metrics’ to speech, including the question of language dentally, reveals that Lehiste is thinking in terms of coordinative
discrimination by babies as well as adults. We then discuss the rhythm. Alternatively, rhythmic types were seen (e.g. [12,13])

notion of the ‘prominence gradient’ inherent in one metric, as a function of the collaboration of the phonological, phonetic


and phonotactic properties of different languages, particula- timed group and hitherto unclassified languages’ [23]. El

rly syllable structure, rather than the result of the timing of Numerous other studies have applied the PVI to different
intervals. To the extent that such views depended on (for languages (e.g. [24—27]) and varieties including non-native a
instance) the homogeneity or diversity of successive syllables, accents (e.g. [28,29]). s