unit, and a small average will reflect regularity. In its simplest acknowledged in Knight [32], that the subsections were too
form, this ‘raw’ PVI leaves a problem because as values v for short to neutralize for phonological content and to allow
the property p are scaled up (for instance, as durations the values of the metrics to ‘settle’.
become proportionately greater under rallentando, or when a Gibbon [31] claims that ‘The [PVI] model has an empirical
slower speaker is measured) the pairwise differences will problem: it assumes strictly binary rhythm. Hence, alterna-
become larger in a way which will falsely imply increasing irre- tions as in Little John met Robin Hood and so the merrie men
gularity. Low [21], therefore, used a normalized PVI as shown in were born are adequately modelled, but not the unary
equation (2.1) below, where each difference is calculated as a rhythm (syllable timing) of This one big fat bear swam fast
proportion of the mean value for p within the pair, the resultant near Jane's boat or ternary dactylic and anapaestic rhythms
fractional average PVI values being summed over the utter- (or those with even higher cardinality) like Jonathan Appleby
ance, and multiplied by 100 merely to yield a whole number wandered around with a tune on his lips and saw Jennifer Middle-

ton playing a xylophone down on the market-place.’ In fact, the

PVI = 100 x » Vk Vk-1 Mn—1)). (2.1) originators of the PVI were perfectly aware that English
£3 |(ve + Ve-1)/2 rhythm is not consistently binary; Nolan [33] explicitly antici-
pates the point, as reprised in §6 below, and Lin & Wang
Lower normalized vowel PVI values (nPVI-V) were indeed [34] deliberately incorporate constructed sentences with
found in Singapore English than British English [21,22]. This ‘unary’ rhythm in the expectation that these would not
lent quantitative support for the implication of the ‘syllable differ in PVI between British and Singaporean English. The
timed’ label that syllables (represented by measurements of PVI metric does not ‘assume binary rhythm’, it assumes a
their vowels) show less variability in Singapore English. sufficient predominance of strong-weak alternation in natural
The PVI was extended to cross-language comparison by usage that the cumulative effect will be to raise the PVI value
Grabe & Low [23]. They took one speaker from each of 18 in a language impressionistically described as stress-timed.
languages, and for duration calculated both the normalized For instance, even in Gibbon’s carefully constructed dactylic