
We have discussed a subset of matters relating to the defi- metaphor more comfortably, and more permissively (or
nition, and indeed existence, of rhythm in speech. This is of ambiguously) in languages where prominences are less salient.
course a potentially circular discussion, as how tightly or Our purpose in this paper has been to step aside for a
loosely one defines rhythm will affect whether or not moment from the familiar endeavour of trying to elucidate
spoken language satisfies that definition. But in respect of the nature of rhythm in speech and to adopt a different view-
two plausible conceptualizations of rhythm, we can agree point, one which questions the presupposition that there is a
that everyday speech does not appear to have coordinative rhythm to elucidate. Doing so might be compared to, in the
rhythm with its implied synchronization of one or more realm of religion, departing from a strict theistic stance and
unit to an external clock, and that the notion of contrastive adopting an agnostic one. Rather than taking a phenomenon
rhythm, based on alternation between units of different pro- (God or speech rhythm) as axiomatic, and trying to refine our
minence, is the one that has the better potential to model the understanding of its nature, this alternative stance frees us to
facts of speech. For a language such as English, where ask new questions and reformulate existing ones. This agnos-
alternation between stronger and weaker elements is most tic stance certainly does not preclude us suggesting refined
likely to be found, by virtue of there being very clear cues tests which might better reveal a rhythm immanent in
to stressed and unstressed syllables, we have however speech, as with our discussion (§5) of the language-specific
noted that sustaining the concept of ‘alternation’ (or cyclicity) weighting of different dimensions in a complex rhythm
requires turning a blind eye to the actual phonetic properties metric. It obliges us, however, also to focus on the conse-
of the sequences of syllables and feet that occur. English quences of the alternative hypothesis, i.e. that speech is not
allows a rich variety of syntagmatic contrast and achieves a inherently rhythmical. For instance, we need to think about
poor approximation to alternation (as critics of the PVI are the definition of arhythmicality as well as rhythm; for
happy to point out), even though relatively simple mechan- unless there are potential sequences of elements varying in
isms could have been applied in its historical development duration and salience which can unambiguously be
that would have culminated in rhythmic rectitude. Our described as lacking rhythm within the relevant framework,
view, then, is that the simulacrum of rhythm in speech is acci- then the concept of rhythm becomes vacuous. Questions