
nPVI-V 0.655 articulation rate 0.499 example of this with the elision of ‘were’, i.e. ‘you were’ is

rPVI-C 0.929 no. of syllables 0.010 inappropriately reduced to the single syllable ‘you're’.

VarcoV 0.437 perceptual rating 0.005 These features were not restricted to the sentence rep-
etition task but were also underlined in the speakers’
naturalistic speech data. Figure 3a,b presents further examples

Figure 2 shows the data of only one control speaker as it of segment or syllable deletion: the word ‘prefer’ loses the ‘re’
was not possible to present mean group performance in this in the first syllable, creating a new ‘pf’ consonant cluster and
format. The selection of this particular individual was based reducing the word to a single syllable. This had the added
on the fact that she performed close to the group mean for the effect of reducing the variability between successive vowels:
nPVI-V and in addition, showed the expected vowel duration the long-short-long patterns of ‘I prefer’ is reduced to two
pattern, i.e. vowels with strong beats were long (Tony knew adjacent long vowels. The reduction of ‘accommodation’ to
you were lying in bed), and the remaining vowels were ‘komdeish’ is an even more severe example of this process,
short. Exceptions to this pattern were the /i/ in ‘Tony’, effectively deleting three of the five syllables in the word and
where the inherent nature of the vowel did not allow for as again only maintaining the two long vowels.
much reduction as in the other syllables. In addition, the Figure 3c, on the other hand, is a further example of the
/e/ in ‘bed’ was longer than might be expected due to inversion of expected vowel duration. The sentence ‘swim-
phrase-final lengthening. All control speakers consistently ming with dolphins’ has stress on the first syllable in the
omitted the second syllable in ‘lying’, which was produced first and final word, with the expectation that the vowels in
as a single syllable, i.e. /lam/. these syllables should be slightly longer than those in the

The comparison of this pattern with the disordered speakers unstressed parts of the word. However, in this speaker, the