cell surface, with transport of the centrosome mediated by 9. Origins and evolutionary significance of

forces generated by the cytoskeleton, possibly as has been pro-

posed for immune cells (reviewed in [69,70]). It is not clear if the centrosome polarization In Immune cel Is

apparent differences in membrane association site reflect Cilia and flagella are found on cells across phyla and are of
mechanistic differences between distinct cell or cilia types, for particular functional importance to unicellulates. Further-
example primary cilia versus cilia on terminally differentiated more, although not all cells and tissues require cilia or
cells, or whether different components of a single common flagella for their steady-state ‘normal’ function, most can pro-
pathway have been identified in distinct systems. Comparisons duce primary cilia under particular conditions, for example
between centrosome behaviour during ciliogenesis and the nutritional or environmental stress. Thus, they are evolution-
mechanisms reported for immune cells may help elucidate arily primitive and widely conserved [78]. The fact that
the processes involved in both pathways in the future. immune cells show centrosome polarization and share simi-

larities with cilia on polarization but do not appear to make
cilia is therefore particularly striking. This has led to the pro-

7. Centrosome retraction posal that haemopoietic cells might exploit mechanisms used
for primary ciliogenesis to orientate cell polarity, trafficking
At the end of interaction of an immune cell with a target, the pathways, signalling processes and information towards
centrosome retracts back from the surface into the cell body target cells on target cell encounter [12,26].
(figure 1bGii)) and the domain organization of the synapse The absence of cilia in immune cells is also unusual because
membrane proteins disperses as the two cells separate. Retrac- there is a correlation between the presence of a centrosome and
tion of the basal body is also seen during downregulation of the capacity to form cilia or flagella, and most cell types which