localization, these more anterior areas may correspond to observed in our results.

the lateral prefrontal cortex and vmPFC, respectively. The rapid emergence of chosen value signals in the

These findings show that the consequence of the vicinity of the lateral intraparietal cortex is particularly
decision itself (for at least this type of simple reward-related notable given prior literature implicating this region in
choice) is represented very early on (only 200 ms after decision-making in non-human primates [7,13,24—26]. In par-
stimulus onset) most prominently in posterior parts of the ticular, neural signals have been found in these regions
brain such as LIP. A possible implication of these findings that are suggested to correspond to evidence integration pro-
could be that posterior brain regions such as LIP are respon- cesses in both perceptual and value-based decision-making
sible for the formation of the initial decision, before this [6,27—29]. It is also striking that the timing of emergence of
information is propagated anteriorly for the purposes of decision signals in monkey LIP neurons is very compatible
action selection. However, the fact that the chosen-value with the timing of the emergence of chosen value signals in
activity was also found in an anterior scalp location early the present study. In both the monkey studies and our
on in the trial, albeit much more faintly than the posterior study, around 200 ms post-stimulus, LIP appears to have a
locus, suggests that such a conclusion may be premature very robust representation of the option that ultimately
on the basis of the current findings. is chosen.

A more balanced interpretation would be that the Besides the lateral intraparietal cortex and vmPFC,
decision process may emerge as a result of integrative inter- another region that has previously been implicated in the
actions between anterior and posterior regions. It has been decision process is the dmPFC [4,10,11,30]. This region has
proposed that the decision process can be viewed in a hier- previously been found to encode the difference between
archical setting, with more anterior regions such as vmPFC unchosen and chosen values, which has been hypothesized
playing a role in the selection or ranking of goals, and to emerge as a consequence of the type of evidence inte-
more posterior dorsal regions such as LIP playing a role in gration process that may underpin decision-making at the