
For making such proactive inferences, the actor strategy In that event, new actor strategies may then be rejected as
learns an additional internal model, which we refer to as the soon as they serve as actor according to subsequent cue- and
contextual model. The actor contextual model simply registers outcome-based counterevidence. Proactive inferences thus pro-
the frequencies of external cues and is stored in long-term vide the ability to control behaviour according to the context,
memory along with selective and predictive models (figure 2). ie. to rapidly recreate and switch across behavioural strategies

When external cues occur, the actor absolute reliability is then according to external cues.


Under its intrinsic computational constraints (forward Collins & Koechlin [25] showed that this view is inconsistent

and factual inferences only), this computational model opti- with human behavioural performances in sequential decision
mally uses external cues and action outcomes for adapting tasks. This is also theoretically problematic, because the
to environments featuring both new and recurrent situations. global actor may be inferred as being reliable with only unre-
Our hypothesis is that the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPC) liable strategies: the mixture of monitored strategies may
learns and encodes contextual models and updates the actor therefore be strongly suboptimal when another strategy
absolute reliability according to external cues (figure 2). stored in long-term memory is potentially reliable. More opti-
Monkey and human studies show that, consistently, the LPC mally, the executive system may concurrently infer the
subserves the formation and selection of behavioural strategies absolute reliability of every monitored strategy and when
according to contextual cues [43-45]. The neuronal connec- none are inferred as being reliable, a new strategy is created
tions between the LPC, OFC and premotor cortex [46] are from long-term memory (as described above) and added to
further assumed to link the contextual, predictive and selective the inferential buffer. When, conversely, one is inferred as
models associated with the same strategy. More specifically, being reliable, the others are necessary unreliable, even when
the LPC revises the actor absolute reliability conveyed from considered collectively (absolute reliabilities sum up to 1 or