rodents provides the ability to make factual, reactive reliability tual strategies. The ventral striatum is predicted to detect this 2
inferences; reliability inferences are based on action outcomes confirmation event yielding to the actor consolidation in &
and only bear upon the actor strategy guiding action and learn- long-term memory. Conversely, rejection occurs when a coun- a
ing external contingencies. The OFC is predicted to encode terfactual strategy become reliable before this actor. The LPC is Ps
strategies’ internal models predicting action outcomes and to predicted to retrieve this reliable counterfactual strategy to © ©
revise actor absolute reliability according to action outcomes. serve as actor. Critically, hypothesis testing prevents the &
Critically, the actor strategy learns actions through RL so that capacity-limited buffer from monitoring unnecessary strategies 3
the more outcomes are rewarding, the more the reliability emerging from long-term memory. Hypothesis testing, more-
reflects the predicted occurrence of these outcomes. The over, is a primitive form of backward inferences, because
ACC, by contrast, detects when the actor strategy becomes every decision to create new strategies may be subsequently
unreliable for triggering the creation of new actor strategies revised on the basis of subsequent information. Backward
from long-term memory. The LPC appearing in primates pro- inferences are actually critical in optimal adaptive systems
vides the additional ability to make factual, proactive inferences. operating in open-ended environments for dealing with the
The LPC is predicted to encode strategies’ internal models non-parametric nature of strategy creation [19]. Thus, counter-
predicting external cues and to revise actor absolute reliability factual inferences and hypothesis testing associated with
according to external cues typically occurring before action. the development of the IFPC appear as critical reasoning capa-
Finally, the IFPC appearing in humans provides the ability bilities endowing humans with a qualitative evolutionary
to further make both reactive and proactive counterfactual infer- advantage in adaptive behaviour.
ences. The IFPC is predicted to encode the absolute reliability of The present theory provides a unified, principled model of
a few counterfactual strategies stored in long-term memory; the overall inferential architecture of the human prefrontal
along with actor reliability, counterfactual reliabilities are cortex. The model makes testable predictions outlined above
revised in OFC and LPC according to action outcomes and [56]. This overall model, however, masks the computational
external cues, respectively. complexity of neuronal processing involved in learning strat-
Counterfactual strategies along with the actor strategy egies’ internal models coding the likelihoods of action
form an inferential /monitoring buffer essentially equivalent to outcomes and external cues in the OFC and LPC. Indeed,