Drosophila cells and analysed by electron tomography. (Adapted from [4].) (d) Harsh treatment of Spisu/a centrosomes with potassium iodide revealed 12-15 nm
wide filaments running throughout the PCM, leading to the hypothesis that a lattice-like network forms the structural foundation of the PCM. (Adapted from [5].)
(e) The development of subdiffraction microscopy techniques allowed high precision localization of proteins within the PCM. The first picture depicts the localization
of PCNT-like protein (D-PLP) in Drosophila cells determined with stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM). Comparison of the localization of numerous
proteins revealed that the interphase PCM contains ordered subdomains of defined size. However, the expansive PCM that exists during mitosis is less ordered.
Localization of PCNT and -y-tubulin in human cells using three-dimensional SIM is shown. (Adapted from [6—8].)

structural scaffold onto which y-tubulin and other soluble similarity among PCM organizing proteins was an abundance
components from the cytoplasm are loaded. of coiled-coil domains [13-18]. The coiled-coil motif consists of
Concurrently, scientists sought to determine the identities intertwined a-helices and is known to mediate protein—protein
and biochemical properties of the proteins that construct the interactions [19]. Thus, it was proposed that these numerous
PCM scaffold, or the so-called ‘centromatrix’. Researchers coiled-coil domains could mediate robust inter-molecular inter-
took advantage of the curious fact that auto-immune sera actions to allow formation of the centromatrix [16,20]. Whether
taken from scleroderma patients reacted widely with centro- these coiled-coil scaffold proteins per se are sufficient to assem-
somes and, thus, could be used as a robust label for specific ble the centromatrix, and whether their coiled-coil domains are
centrosome proteins in western blot and immunofluorescence critical for this assembly process, has yet to be determined.
assays [10]. Use of these sera revealed that the PCM is a Analysis of purified centrosomes by mass spectrometry
dynamic structure and led to the identification and biochemical and large-scale RNAi and localization screens in Caenorhabditis
characterization of PCM proteins [11]. In this manner, one of the elegans, Drosophila and human cells unveiled a diverse bounty
first PCM components, pericentrin (PCNT), was identified, of centrosome proteins [17,21—25] (table 1). Owing to the diver-
cloned and its necessity for spindle organization described sity and tight clustering of PCM proteins at centrosomes, it is of
[12]. The discovery of additional core PCM components such little surprise that electron microscopy so far could not discern
as Cep192/SPD-2, CDK5RAP2/Cnn, Cep152/Asterless and structural information about the PCM. Labelling and observ-

SPD-5 in various organisms revealed that the only major ing individual components within the PCM promised to