the combination of PLK-1 inactivation, phosphatase activity the concentration of the starting material, indicating that
and MT-dependent forces ensure the rapid disassembly of PCM growth could be set by concentration, and PCM size
PCM during mitotic exit. set by total amount, of PCM proteins within the cytoplasm.

This is certainly the case in the C. elegans embryo, where cen-
trosome size decreases in direct proportion to the cytoplasmic

5. Factors regulating pericentriolar material volume, and thus total available PCM components, during
er . . development. Moreover, in this system, overexpression of
growth Kinetics and final size the limiting component SPD-2 increased the rate of PCM
Like any intracellular organelle, the size of a centrosome is set growth and its maximum achievable size [66]. Likewise, in
for any individual cell type. This is especially clear in early Drosophila embryos, increasing the cytoplasmic concentration
C. elegans embryos, where the total amount of centrosome of Cnn also increased PCM size and growth rate [35]. The fact
material is constant. Altering the number of centrosomes in a that recruitment of Cnn to the PCM depends on its inter-
one-cell embryo will change the size of each individual centro- action with SPD-2 argues that a SPD-2-centred mechanism
some, but the sum of centrosome volume will remain the same. to regulate PCM growth and size is conserved throughout
For example, if a one-cell embryo contains four centrosomes evolution [35]. Exhaustion of a limiting component could per-
instead of two, then each centrosome will be half the expected haps also explain the characteristic plateau in centrosome size
size [66,75]. What are the factors that determine PCM expan- seen during mitosis in both C. elegans and Drosphila embryos
sion and its maximum size? Both centriole-dependent and [35,66]. Recent experiments on spindle length in Xenopus
-independent mechanisms seem to be required. extracts encased in artificial cells suggest that spindle size is
One mechanism centres around the role of centrioles, as also limited by the availability of certain components like
centriolar proteins and overall centriole size were found to tubulin [80,81]. Thus, a limiting component mechanism
affect PCM size. Proper centriole duplication is an essential could be a general way of setting the size of intracellular
step towards PCM accumulation around centrioles [76]. In organelles in early embryos [75].