
squares deconvolution of the variational updates, using an encode uncertainty or predictability [60,61];
exponentially decaying kernel. In other words, these (simu- — precision increases whenever a predictable path to a goal
lated) dopamine responses reproduce the fluctuations in is signified by sensory input. For example, the appearance
expected precision when convolved with an exponential of a high offer in figure 3 elicits a greater increase in pre-
kernel (with a time constant of eight iterations). This accounts cision than receipt of the offer per se—or its subsequent
for the postsynaptic effects of dopamine that, we imagine, retention. Similarly, dopamine responses are elicited by
decay after its release. The resulting updates show phasic sensory cues that, in higher order operant conditioning
responses to the arrival of new sensory information that paradigms, lead to reward but thereafter ‘remain unin-
converge to tonic values, which minimize free energy. fluenced by events that are as good as predicted’ [62].
Many readers will have noted a similarity between the Indeed, it was the transfer of dopamine responses—
dynamics of precision and the firing of dopaminergic cells. from early to late conditioned stimuli—that motivated
In fact, nearly every anatomical and physiological feature normative theories of reinforcement learning based
of dopaminergic neurotransmission can be found in these upon temporal difference models [29]; and
precision updates: — precision decreases with the withdrawal of an opportu-
nity to fulfil prior beliefs (shown in [8]). Similarly,
— expected precision modulates the contribution of expected dopamine firing decreases in the absence of an expected
value during the optimization of posterior beliefs about the reward [62].
state of the world and action selection. This fits comfortably
with the broadcasting of dopaminergic signals from the For people familiar with discussions of dopamine in the
VTA and SN to the cortex (for perception) by the meso- context of active inference, the correspondence between pre-
cortical system—and to the ventral striatum (for action) cision and dopaminergic neurotransmission will come as no
via nigrostriatal projections. Crucially, the mean field surprise—exactly the same conclusions have been reached
effects implicit in variational Bayes mandate this bi- when examining predictive coding schemes [34] and hierarch-
lateral (perception and action) dissemination of precision ical inference using volatility models [63]. ‘In brief, the