memory retrieval. In this way, memories are part of future-

oriented cognition, as they make us act in a way that affects 3. Beyond the episodic system

the future outcome. One can also use the recalled information Despite substantial intellectual focus on the role of the episodic
to anticipate a future situation without needing to project system in future-oriented cognition, it is generally agreed that
oneself into an episodically constructed event [23,24]. several cognitive systems must work in concert to enable
Remembering the last time, I forgot my keys and locked future orientation [4,27]. With few exceptions [27,28], little
myself out of my apartment does not imply that every time theoretical or empirical effort has been put into the question of
I take the keys I do so while projecting myself into the how various cognitive mechanisms interact in future-oriented
future event of calling the locksmith, even though the behav- behaviours in non-human animals.
ioural outcome of both situations—imagining the details of Already Tulving recognized that the episodic system would
the future event versus just anticipating the negative effects not function without the semantic system [9]. Without factual
of forgetting the key—is the same. I bring the keys. knowledge, episodic constructs would be meaningless (if they
If both memories and foresight are inexact constructs of would form at all). Despite this, the semantic and the episodic
past impressions, and if memories are part of future-oriented systems have been thought of as distinct, with the semantic
cognition, the distinction between memory and foresight system preceding the episodic system in evolution [4,5]. We
blurs. The episodic system appears to provide a continuum believe this to be an oversimplification. We submit that the sys-
of types of constructs. Arguably, the more novel the combi- tems have coevolved, at least since the last common ancestor of
nations of past impressions in the construct, the more mammals and birds. We further believe that the semantic
flexibly creative or future-oriented it becomes, though finding system may be more important to future-oriented cognition

any quantitative measure of this is difficult. than has been recognized: indeed, the seemingly unparalleled

