and their impact on ongoing and future behaviour should be oriented action in the physical world emerges from the
seen as resulting from a process that plays out at multiple interplay of the different processes subserving H4W. Action
levels of the neuraxis following distinct principles. in a social world would also require processing ‘Who’, but
Goal-directed behaviour is unique and distinct from other this aspect will not be dealt with here [11].
forms of control such as innate reflexes and habits in the Each of the Ws can be seen as a specific objective that the
sense that it does not prescribe a specific operation or pro- brain must satisfy, to which it designates a large set of sub-
cedure but rather the end state that an operation should objectives of varying complexity, which are laid out in parallel
achieve. Goal-directed choice permits an agent to escape across different levels and scales of organization of the central
from stereotyped interactions with a predictable environment nervous system. At a first level, the brain must assess the moti-
and flexibly and rapidly adapt to complex and dynamic vational states derived from homeostatic  self-essential
internal (e.g. motivational) and environmental conditions variables. These motivational states in turn need to be priori-
using abstract allocentric procedures and prospection. This tized so that goals can be set: this is the ‘Why’ problem,
fact is epitomized in experimental procedures such as reward requiring the modulation of associated behaviour systems.
devaluation [7]. Here, a rat is first trained to press a lever to Next, a second layer of control is called for to classify, categor-
obtain a food reward. After reaching the learning criterion, ize and valuate states of the world, to identify the spatial layout
the rat is given the same reward but now ‘devaluated’, of the task, including the agent itself, and the dynamics of the
e.g. coupled to a nausea inducing treatment. When the rat is task and its affordances: ‘What’, ‘Where’, ‘When’. Lastly, these
subsequently placed again in front of the lever, it can either labelled multi-modal states are grouped in sequences around
display the habit of the previously acquired lever-pressing prioritized goals; for example, in a rodent navigation set-up,
action or display goal-oriented (in)action by avoiding to press to go towards and push a lever, placed at the northeast
the lever. Rats are able to suppress the acquired response. corner of the environment, given that the cue signal has
This example illustrates the two hallmarks of goal-directed appeared. At this stage, the ‘How’ has been generated and
choice: agency and intentionality. It also shows that goal- expressed. Using the accumulated spatio-temporal knowledge
directed choice is a systems property that depends on a of the task and the self in which goal pursuit is framed, a pro-
number of tightly coupled processes including perception, cedural motor strategy (‘How’) can be composed and its