blems detached from perception and action. Subsequently, When defined through the cerebellum at the level of AL;
following the DAC framework, we proposed that the mam- rule-based task space construction that integrates What,
malian brain solves the H4W problem by integrating central Where and Why at the level of the prefrontal cortex; while
representations of needs and drives (e.g hypothalamus), the competitive processes of the basal ganglia ultimately
valence (e.g. amygdala), world and self-state spaces (e.g. neo- orchestrate the How of goal-oriented action. This decompo-
cortex and hippocampus), task space (e.g. prefrontal cortex) sition confirms the DAC prediction that AL systems are
and multi-modal selection (e.g. basal ganglia) on the basis more closely linked to interval based real-time processing,
of multiple kinds of outcome predictions. Goal-directed while those of the CL are more dominated by order.
choice thus results from the coherent orchestration of mul- The mapping of H4W to the brain and DAC shows that
tiple mechanisms within a system-level architecture. That goals can be seen as emerging from the foundational need sys-
this interpretation is a reasonable approximation of the neur- tems of the physically instantiated agent. However, through
onal substrate of goal-oriented choice is made plausible by the state space learning systems of the AL and the task learn-
the fact that an existence proof of this architectural hypothesis ing systems of the CL, these goals become incrementally more
is provided through robot-based experimentation using abstracted from their homeostatic origins (see also [137,138]).
DAC. The DAC case studies we presented thus also illustrate Rather they are defined as models of states of the agent and
how biomimetic architectures instantiated in robots can be the world that define the measurable ends of successful
used to explain neuronal processes and formulate predictions behavioural strategies. Hence, what we call ‘goals’ are amal-
that bridge the gap between real-world robot behaviour and gamations of sensory, affective and action states, stored in
neuronal data [136]. ; . . different memory systems and defined on the basis of the
From the DAC perspective, it can be appreciated that interaction of the agent with its varying and often conflicting
goal-directed selection is multilevel; it involves multiple mech- needs with its dynamic environment, This incremental abstrac-
anisms that represent information of different qualities (e.g. tion from needs to goals serves the transition from action in
Sensory, memory and. different aspects of HaW) at different environments with continuously available sensory information
layers and engage in interactions that have to be coherently that support taxon-based strategies, to tasks that depend on
orchestrated. The DAC approach can shed light on how discontinuous and unpredictable environments with intermit-