Figure 2. Possible steps of local chromatin formation triggered by associations with IncRNAs. Step 1: basal transcription of mRNA and cis-acting IncRNA. Cryptic RNA
transcription occurs in conjunction with mRNA expression [48]. Many CpG island-bearing genes show bidirectional transcription. It has been reported that G-skew in
a CpG island leads to a directionality of the transcription, generating mRNAs that start from G-rich sequences. Associated cryptic transcripts with G-rich structures are
involved in cis in a local chromatin set-up that is reminiscent of the transcriptionally competent structure, called the R-loop [52]. The R-loop structure is favoured by
H3K4 methylation, but not by DNMT activity, which may explain the unmethylated characteristics of CpG island type promoters. However, it should be noted that R-
loop structure constitutes a repressed state in a different context in plants [53]. The mechanisms of switching between opening and closing of chromatin structure
via IncRNA might be coupled with association with different components in steps 2 and 3. Step 2: upregulation of epigenetic modifiers to strengthen transcription
through ternary structure formation. Transcriptionally competent structure can spread beyond the promoter regions. Such expanded open chromatin status can be
recognized by a set of distally located enhancer-associated proteins to form a ternary structure for effective transcription of the target genes. Recent studies have
suggested that, for example, SOX2 can be located not only on the target gene promoter regions but also on a fraction of enhancers together with BRN2 [54].
Although we do not yet know how polyA-+ eRNA is generated, association of eRNA transcription may be coupled with such a structure involving RNAPII that is
originally associated with the promoter sequences. Step 3: stabilization or antagonization of gene activation by trans-acting IncRNA and dsRNA. In addition, if
interaction of chromatinic IncRNA with small dsRNA occurs, it would add further complexity to the transcription regulatory dimensions. In fact, association between
IncRNAs (eRNA and pancRNA) and mRNAs have been reported to be modulated further by the association of small dsRNAs with the IncRNAs and/or genomic DNA,
as described above. In addition, small dsRNA can associate with trans-acting proteins including DNMT and MBD proteins, to allosterically modulate their functions or
to mask their catalytic domains, as described in the text.

In non-neuronal cells and in neural progenitors, REST potential members of the REST complex are also targets of mul-
represses miR-124 [65]. However, when progenitors differen- tiple microRNAs, including miR-124, miR-9 and miR-132 [65].
tiate into mature neurons, REST is downregulated and Many of these microRNA genes also contain cAMP response
consequently miR-124 is de-repressed, leading to the degra- elements in their regulatory regions, suggesting that the

dation of non-neuronal transcripts. Furthermore, REST and transcriptional regulators CREB and CBP/p300 are also

