instance, in a sense, anatomical networks can be seen as hom- review paper, Keller ef al. [32] propose the use of cortico-

eomorphic to resting dynamical networks in the limit of an cortical evoked potentials (CCEPs) as a tool for measuring
infinitely slow time scale [25], whereas anatomical structure, effective connectivity and thus directed networks that capture
which evolves or develops on much longer time scales, the causal interactions between brain regions. The measure-
should only act as a boundary condition for very fast dynami- ment of CCEPs induced by electrical stimulation allows the
cal processes. The anatomy—dynamics—function interplay and direction of flow of electrical activity to be assessed by stimu-
the role played by topology and dynamics and time-scale lating one site and measuring the cortical response at another
separation remains a vast and open field of investigation. site. The N1 event-related component of the CCEP is found to
How should we best use graph theory to quantify and more partially reflect the structural connectivity strength between
completely understand brain network organization? Neuroimaging regions, whereas the N2 may be influenced by factors such
techniques such as fMRI effectively coarse-grain brain anat- as brain state and cognitive demands. Furthermore, CCEP-
omy and neural activity, so that what is observed is in fact based network analysis allows estimation of the reciprocity
the result of spatially and temporally coherent structure. How- of connections between regions: approximately 30% for
ever, as soon as one leaves the spatial observation scale of short-distance connections and approximately 10% for long-
single neurons, identifying nodes and links of the system distance connections, with the proportion of reciprocal con-
becomes a non-trivial task [26-28]. Identifying nodes supposes nections in the brain decreasing as a function of connection
that the system can be decomposed into different parts, distance. The use of CCEPs also supports comparison of
and that each of these parts can be reduced to structureless the network topology at rest, during sensory stimuli, and
points. How to best segment or parcellate the anatomical during electrical stimulation of specific subnetworks. Com-
space and how to accurately sample the underlying dynamical paring the large-scale network structure of the brain during
system are two of the main issues encountered. Functional con- these conditions can yield important information regard-
nectivity is generally defined using statistical relationships ing local and global network reorganization following the
between activity recorded at different brain sites or sensors, activation and disruption of specific cortical regions.
but there is as yet no universally accepted criterion for choosing Hitt et al. [33] examine the extent to which anatomical struc-