muscle cells (using how?*8-GAL4). In contrast to neuronal
expression, elevation of Nrg in muscles induced a de novo of the innervation defect at m6/m7 in the sub-population of
ISNb axon arrest phenotype (not shown). Postsynaptic motor axons that reach the target domain (figure 5d). Thus,

expression of UAS-nrg in the miR-8 null suppressed only 10% we concluded that mainly changes in presynaptic Nrg


expression contribute to the ISNb phenotype observed in miR-8 demonstrate combinatorial synergy between Nrg and FaslII at El

null mutant embryos. the m6/m7 NMJ via loss of endogenous gene function. During

While NMJ formation at the m6/m7 synaptic site requires this stage, miR-8 appears to play a rather subtle role in refining a
Nrg, the fact that strong nrg alleles display roughly half the the target recognition of motor axon terminals at the m6/m7 s
penetrance of miR-8 nulls for this phenotype suggested that cleft by regulating the spatial distribution of Nrg and FaslII. a
some additional effector(s) were involved. Given the striking While additional experiments will be necessary to prove that — 2
change in synaptic FasIII accumulation in miR-8 mutants miR-8 function at the m6/m7 NMJ can be fully accounted for 3
(figure 4d), we wondered whether the combined influence of by Nrg and FaslII, the nature of this early phenotype suggests S
Nrg and FaslII might explain the higher penetrance of the that miR-8 contributes to the accuracy or robustness of motor =
miR-8 mutant phenotype, even though elimination of FaslIII connectivity, consistent with the roles of many miRNAs in ‘S
alone is not sufficient to induce the defect. To test this possibility, fine-tuning of genetic circuits [64]. s
we genetically removed both FasIII and Nrg at the same time It is thought that a set of neuronal and muscle transcrip- >
and then quantified the m6/m7 innervation using anti-FasII tion factors determines the deployment of genes required to | =
staining. Interestingly, introduction of a FasIII null allele (fas- achieve accurate connectivity in the neuromuscular system [65], yy
1", which has no ISNb phenotype alone) into an nrg'/ although the precise relationship between the targeting receptors 2
nrg'* mutant background more than doubled the frequency of and the upstream factors that control their expression is just &