measures can be found in [1,22]. The network measures of the original and benchmark net-
The human macro-connectome consists of R= 66 brain works are shown in figure 2. The quantities L, C, a, and W
areas (modules), N = 998 ROIs (nodes) and E = 17 865 connec- show strong positive or negative correlations to Q for the
tions (links) between ROIs in total. The average degree, (k), is benchmark networks, whereas the values from the original net-
35.80. The characteristic path length, L, is 3.07 and the cluster- work deviate from the trends of the curves in all cases. In
ing coefficient, C, is 0.47. For comparison, the ER networks general, as the modularity grows, the number of local loops
with the same number of nodes and links yield L = 2.22 and increases and the number of long-range connections decreases.
C= 0.036 (average over 100 generated networks). The high Therefore, the increase in L and C, as well as the decrease in W,
small-world index o,,, value of 9.27, as well as the high C with respect to growing Q is easily understood. For all the net-
value compared with C,ang, suggests that the human brain work measures, the original neural networks show marked
connectome is a small-world network. However, it is interest- differences to alternative arrangements with the same modu-
ing to note that L is slightly larger than L,.,4q which suggests larity. In addition, some values for the original networks can
the opposite. It is due to the fact that L can be reduced only be reached for much higher modularity in alternative net-
drastically by only a few extremely long-range connections. works or cannot be reached at all (L, C and W for the human
While the ER networks can have such long-range connections, connectome). Note that the clustering coefficients of the orig-

the connection range of human connectome is relatively inal networks are higher than those of alternative networks


(figure 3b). This effect is also visible, though less apparent,
for the C. elegans connectome (figure 3d) and for the
corresponding benchmark network (figure 3e).

As discussed above, the number of links before and after
link swapping does not change. Therefore, the observed