
optimizes some criterion, e.g. data classification [93]. equated to it.


Other examples of these risks are the evaluation of robust- different time scales is typically forgotten or explicitly

ness and vulnerability. Both parameters are traditionally avoided as there is as yet no standard methodology to quan-
obtained by targeted or random removals of the network tify the connections between temporal scales [103]. Failure to
nodes and/or links [57]. The effects of node and link deletion account for the non-random structure associated with the
in the network parameters are reasonable in networks like complex generic properties of the temporal scales of brain
the Internet, where all routers and servers have similar func- fluctuations leads to missing or distorting temporally non-
tions [95]. Nevertheless, it is adventurous to extrapolate these local structure and does not help in understanding the
techniques to brain networks, owing to the fact that each complex interactions among structures unfolding at very
brain node is different, and that the deletion of a node or link different characteristic time scales [101].
may have qualitatively different consequences from those pre- An important and related issue is to determine what
dicted by the topological robustness. For example, the removal quantities can be averaged together and how. From a statisti-
of a crucial but poorly connected node may lead the whole cal mechanics viewpoint, the generic presence of properties
brain network to fail when performing a cognitive task. such as modularity and small-worldness makes the brain a
On the other hand, some network concepts have been disordered system. The disorder found in the brain can be
borrowed from other domains of application, disregarding thought of as an externally given background and should
the conditions under which they are valid. Synchronizability therefore be considered as quenched disorder, i.e. the par-
of a functional network is a paradigmatic example. This net- ameters defining its behaviour are random variables which
work parameter has been used to evaluate whether a do not evolve with time, with modules playing the role of
complex network is able to synchronize or not [96], and it impurities. While there is some indication that quantities
has also been translated to functional brain networks measured for such system may indeed be self-averaging