given network can be measured by the network ensemble’s state [156], i.e. to steer the system towards a goal dynamics | 10 |

entropy, i.e. the normalized logarithm of the total number of which would naturally be achieved starting from a different
networks belonging to the ensemble. This may allow building initial condition. The former may for example be used to a
pseudo-metrics and as a consequence measuring distances keep network dynamics away from a pathological range s
between different experimental conditions. and to stabilize it within a healthy one. a
Network topologies [33] and, to some extent, network This may represent a qualitative advance in the treatment = 2-
dynamics [149] present universal properties. Observed pro- of various pathologies for which therapeutic strategies do not 3
perties can be assigned to universality classes using the fully take into account the network structure used to represent S
renormalization group theory [119]. Universality classes are them. One notable example is represented by the standard sur- =
the basins of attraction of fixed points of renormalization gical treatment of pharmacologically intractable epilepsy. The ‘5
flows, the points within which have the same properties on standard surgical approach still consists of resecting or discon-
large scales. Furthermore, the surface comprising the models necting epileptic foci. The fact that a significant minority of © 2
flowing into the same fixed point separates the space into patients continue to experience seizures after surgery, particu- © =
different phases. Because the functional space is not always larly in the presence of multiple epileptic foci, suggests the yy
easy to navigate, universality classes and renormalization inadequacy of this surgical strategy. While a network charac- 2
flows are important tools for partitioning the phase space, terization of epileptogenesis has recently emerged [157], a &
thus lending an important hand in comparing and classifying surgical strategy based on such an understanding may help a
observed networks. overcoming the current shortcomings. w
Importantly, the aetiology of a given pathology need not =
1 . . be network-like for network control to possibly be effective. |S
(ii) Modelling and forecasting : : : on } : Fes
For instance, while Parkinson’s disease’s causal factors orig- | >

Arguably, the first step into understanding the mechanistic