and 4d, respectively). Thus, even though the NN is operating background activity that acts upon the population itself. We
closer in frequency to the NMs, and its individual neurons consider here one way of facing this situation, based on coup-
fire at the same rate as when the network operates in the ling bidirectionally microscopic and mesoscopic descriptions
gamma band (resulting in a similar MUA activity, result not of neuronal populations. In particular, we use synchronization
shown), the NMs are more difficult to synchronize. In the in order to probe the interaction between the two scales.
neural network, the action potentials are transiently synchron- Specifically, we employ a scheme in which two mesoscopic
ized and paced according to the time course of inhibition, populations are coupled through a third microscopic net-
leading to a recurrent behaviour that causes the global oscil- work, since the behaviour that can be expected from two
latory dynamics. Faster rhythms, like gamma, correspond to coupled NM models is well known [11,12], and can be used
a better precise timing of the firing, i.e. the action potentials as a reference to interpret the coordinated behaviour emerging
of multiple neurons are tightly bounded in time, which from our hybrid scenario.
seems to be key for the synchronization of the NMs. Our results do not imply that two NM oscillators can only
Finally, and as mentioned above, we have also studied synchronize through the mediation of an NN. In fact, if all
how the synchronization of the NMs is affected by the size three neuronal populations were described by NNs (or by
N of the subpopulation of neurons that mediate the coupling NMs;, for that matter) synchronization will also arise (see,
between them. In the results presented so far, this subpopu- for instance, the studies of Vicente et al. [27] and Gollo et al.
lation was formed by N = 2000 neurons, randomly chosen [28] for the case of three coupled NNs leading to zero-lag
from the whole population of 4000 neurons of the NN. We synchronization). Neither do we claim that two brain oscil-
have scanned N between 1 and 4000 neurons, the latter case lators can synchronize only through the mediation of a
corresponding to all neurons in the NN contributing to the third (see, for instance, the study of David & Friston [12]
firing rate impinging on the NMs and receiving their input. for an example of synchronization between two coupled
Figure 5a,b shows the maximum cross covariance and the NMs). What our study shows is that two mesoscopic brain
frequency mismatch for increasing coupling k at varying sub- oscillators can synchronize even when they are coupled only
population sizes. The interaction between the NMs decreases through a mediating population that is described by a micro-
as N decreases, and synchronization is only significant for scopic model. In that sense, we use synchronization as a tool