lations or partial correlation can be assessed using asymptotic 1000 0.939 0.804 0.712 0.64 0.589 ee
statistics [107,108]. Other statistical tests, currently used in 2
phase coherence analysis (e.g. the Rayleigh statistics), are par- 8
ticularly robust when the number of available trials is larger 3
than 50 [109]. The use of data surrogates is also a good data- is then to fix a threshold T on the number of links among the s
driven solution for the statistical assessment of FC measures ones that are tested as significantly different from zero, rather
in the presence of short signals [66]. Other approaches allow than on the weights [106,116]. In this case, the groups/
to determine the probability that correlation-based FC conditions analysis can be performed by comparing brain
measures are significantly higher than those expected from graphs with the same number of links so that possible emer-
independent signals by using the Fisher’s Z transformations ging differences can be associated with a different network
[110,111]. Positive biases have been also reported for topology, excluding any network density effect. However,
common FC nonlinear measures, such as phase synchrony choosing a density threshold for the brain graph may not
[112,113]. Another important issue comes from the fact that be sufficient to reveal topological changes between sub-
statistical significance should be tested for each link. In a jects/conditions. It has already been observed that when
directed brain graph with N nodes, there are N(N — 1) links the density threshold is too high or too low, the brain
and then N(N — 1) tests to perform. In statistics, this issue graph cannot be differentiated from a random or lattice net-
is called multiple testing and possible solutions consist of work [8]. Then, a common procedure is to choose a
adjusting the statistical threshold to the number of tests. In neu- sequence of increasing threshold within a range of admissible
roimaging, if the number of brain nodes is high and the length densities with respect to random or lattice networks. The
of the signals is short, high correlations may emerge simply by comparison between groups/conditions is then performed
chance [114]. This suggests that the threshold should be chosen exploiting the entire collection of predetermined thresholds.
according to the dimension of the problem, i.e. number of brain A first approach consists of testing the difference between
nodes and length of the signals. For example, it can be demon- the topological properties of the brain graphs at each
strated that for a brain graph with 500 nodes and a length of threshold [117]; a second approach is to compare the proper-
the fMRI signals equal to 500 time points, the measured corre- ties of the brain graphs by integrating the topological metric