PGC specification. subset of the pluripotency network concurrent with the


induction of germ cell genes such as Rhox genes, Nanos3 and [9-14]. Generally, DNA methylation at cytosines (5-methyl-

Dnd1.In addition, these factors differentially regulate several his- cytosine; 5mC) regulates chromatin structure as well as
tone modifiers such as Kdm6b, Kdin3a and Kdm4b that act to alter gene transcription to stabilize a cell lineage-specific gene
the chromatin state of nascent PGCs. Remarkably, the three expression profile. During embryonic development, its
factors can completely substitute for cytokines and are sufficient genome wide erasure and reinstatement correlates with
for the induction of the PGC fate from EpiLCs in culture [28,29]. gain of developmental competence and lineage determi-
Individual factors were able to also induce the PGC fate but nation, respectively [70]. Shortly after PGC specification at
at decreased efficiencies, and the resulting PGCs always induced E8.5-E12.5, the global erasure of DNA methylation resets
the expression of the remaining factors [29]. In fact, genetic the epigenome of PGCs including genomic imprints. The
experiments have shown that all three factors are essential for latter are subsequently re-established gender specifically
PGC development in vivo [6-8], which most likely is also the and passed on to the next generation, giving rise to the
case in vitro. monoallelic expression of imprinted genes in a parent-of-
Interestingly, BLIMP1, PRDM14 and AP2y have distinct origin-specific manner [71]. Furthermore, methylation-
binding patterns relative to promoters. BLIMP1 is mainly dependent genes that are expressed specifically in the germ-
enriched at transcriptional start sites, whereas PRDM14 is line, such as Dazl, Ddx4 and Rhox genes, become activated
predominantly bound to enhancers (figure 4) [28,66]. These [72-74]. It is tempting to speculate that global DNA demethy-
two factors are thus likely to collaborate on the regulation lation in PGCs contributes to a switch in the enhancer usage to
of gene expression through distinct mechanisms. AP2y, on establish the germline-specific gene expression programme.
the other hand, appears to bridge this relationship by show- Several studies suggest a functional relationship of enhancers
ing bimodal enrichment, both on distal regulatory elements and DNA methylation, as enhancer activity inversely correlates
as well as on promoters. This binding pattern exhibited by with DNA methylation. Differentially methylated regions