
0.019). (Online version in colour.)

that environmental change is likely to strengthen trans-
mission potential and expand the geographical range of

4. Discussion disease vectors into, for example, higher latitudes [85]. How-
All temperature-related variables were important in determin- ever, recent studies suggest a shift (rather than expansion) in
ing the climatic suitability of both species, with a dominant the geographical distribution of species and vector-borne dis-
contribution from the minimum temperatures of coldest eases in a global warming context [85-87], which is
months. However, for R. prolixus, precipitation variables consistent with our results for both R. prolixus and T. infestans
were also related to climatic suitability. This is consistent as well as other triatomine studies [37,38]. In accounting for
with the biology [25] and ecology of this species [82], which the fact that insects adapted to higher latitudes may present
inhabits predominantly tropical savannahs and_ foothills a broader thermal-tolerance range than those adapted to
(500-1500 m.a.s.1.) with climatic conditions typically consist- lower latitudes, some authors have proposed that tropical
ing of highly variable rains and temperatures. For T. infestans, organisms will be more sensitive to temperature changes
the same thermal variables, except the minimum temperature [88] and consequently, the impact of climate change will be
of the driest quarter, were also the most important factors different across latitudes and species [89]. In agreement
determining the climatic suitability; this is also consistent with these considerations, we observed a differential impact
with the biology of this temperate species that is well adap- of climate change on the two vector species analysed here:
ted to areas characterized by cold temperatures and a broad R. prolixus shows a future expansion to new areas, whereas
thermal-tolerance range [83]. T. infestans shows a future decrease in its geographical

The wide areas in Venezuela (mostly in central and south- range compared with current conditions.
eastern regions) where R. prolixus shows transitions from Several authors, based on sample theory models, have pro-