10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 10 20 30 40 sO 60 7 80 9

Figure 5. (a) North American and (b) European maps of the habitat suitability based on the high-resolution climate model results (1255) for the recent period
2000-2009. The (green) dots show the locations where presence of Ae. albopictus has been reported according to the CABI database.

the global occurrence (e.g. location coordinates) [2] against N and 16°S, currently provides suitable conditions for estab-
the corresponding ones from the habitat suitability map, it lishment of the vector. This is corroborated by recent disease
is evident that approximately 70% of the (sparse) geo- outbreaks related to Ae. albopictus reported in Nigeria [2,5].
referenced data from the CABI database occur in the region Suitable habitat conditions for the mosquito also seem to be
of at least 35% hsi, estimated by the species’ spatial distri- provided by the coastal areas of southeastern Africa. A
bution model. The several misses in non-climatically highly suitable environment is also found in tropical southcen-
suitable locations (e.g. western India) are possibly associated tral America, especially along the eastern coastal part of Brazil.
with the fact that urban environments, which may help repro- Within the United States, depicted in figure 5a, the model
duce the necessary climatic conditions for mosquito identifies most of southeastern states as suitable habitat areas
establishment (e.g. providing water containers in dry areas), for the mosquito. Furthermore, we find quite suitable con-
have not been explicitly considered in our vector distribution ditions for vector survival in the populated southeast coastal
model. The coincidence with the vector distribution model area of Australia and the North Island of New Zealand. This
prediction, under the current climatic conditions, is depicted provides support for the strict measures that have been
in figures 4 and 5. Apart from the fact that a number of points implemented in many developed countries with a currently
reported in the CABI database refer only to the country level, high degree of habitat suitability to prevent the establishment
it should also be noted that in some of the reported locations and distribution of Ae. albopictus. Such measures are also
Ae. albopictus may have already been eradicated or is under needed in less developed countries with high habitat
control. Therefore, it will be essential for the community to suitability.
establish a global network that reliably monitors the vector Figure 5b depicts the recent habitat suitability in the Euro-
distribution, and the data should be publicly available. pean and Mediterranean basin area, indicating that regions