of biochemical markers, such as chl a/b ratio, or the amounts are practically applicable for the assessment of pharmaceutical
of glutamine synthase. In particular, the expression of chlor- mixtures in the environment.

oplast proteins was affected, a finding that might offer an
additional explanation why algae are often the most sensitive

organism to pharmaceutical mixtures [9,27,28]. (0 Concentration addition
Quinn et al. [29] provided one of the few datasets on In the field of human toxicology and pharmacology, the
the toxicity of pharmaceutical mixtures on non-standard median effect principle has found widespread application
organisms when they analysed the overall toxicity of an [33], which is a special case of the more general concept of
11-compound mixture of pharmaceuticals to the cnidarian, CA. The median effect principle is rooted in the law of mass
Hydra attenuate. They observed a bi-phasic response of the action, but its application in ecotoxicology is limited by the
organism to the mixture, with effects already visible at fact that the shape of the individual concentration—response
1/10th of typical concentrations found in the effluent of the curve is usually captured within only one parameter, rendering
Montréal STP. it a quite rigid approach. It has previously been demonstrated
Almost the only study that compared individual effects of that a more flexible approach is needed in order to capture the
pharmaceuticals with the effects of their mixture and found different shapes of the concentration—response curves with
no elevated toxicity has been published by Dietrich et al. sufficient precision and accuracy [34].
[30] in a multi-generational study with daphnids exposed The general form of CA is independent of any speci-
to a four-compound mixture of carbamazepine, diclofenac, fic concentration—response model and is mathematically
metoprolol and ethinylestradiol. They found, however, formulated as
specific mixture effects that were not observed in the individ- Cmix G
ual exposures, such as, significantly increased sizes of the ECtmn 2+ EC; (2.1)
daphnids at the time of first reproduction. A systematic ml
exploration of the relationship between single substance where n denotes the number of mixture components, c; and