sewage treatment is poor or absent, the ratio of caffeine/carba- population equivalents (CPEs) to this source can be calculated
mazepine was found to be more than 10 [72]. Treatment as a multiple of three factors: ie. population x urbanization
efficiencies of sewage treatment plants (STPs) depend on the fraction x sewer connectivity fraction (electronic supplemen-
treatment technology employed, the physico-chemical proper- tary material, table S1). These CPEs have been compared
ties of the APIs and the prevailing operating conditions against their total population in figure 3. This demonstrates
[67,69]. In a comparative study on removal efficiencies of that many low- and middle-income countries, despite their
APIs in STPs from Canada, Germany and Brazil, Ternes et al. huge populations, rank much lower than less populous high-
[73] found that Brazilian STPs were more effective than the income nations. For example, Indonesia, Vietnam, Nigeria and
other two countries, probably because of the warmer con- Bangladesh have very low CPEs, with only 1—4% of the total
ditions prevailing during treatment. While many of the lower population contributing to point-source emissions. India has a
income countries are located in the tropics, the STPs in these much lower CPE than the USA due to the lower extent of urban-
regions may not necessarily be more effective [58]. ization and sewer connectivity, where only about 10% of the
In lower income countries, the centralized treatment infra- urban population contributes to the point source. In fact, with
structures found in Europe and North America may either be the exception of Argentina and Brazil, most of the lower
non-existent or ineffective. A study on water quality treatment income countries listed in the electronic supplementary
efficiency of STPs in Delhi by Jamwal et al. [74] found that the material, table S1, have less than 10% of the total population
effluent released from these STPs usually failed faecal coliform contributing to the point-source problem. The lower income
criteria. Furthermore, this study highlighted the fact that only economies of Asia and Africa together have lesser total popu-
about 50% of the total design capacity was used by the 17 sur- lation contributing to the point-source footprint than the USA
veyed STPs, which serviced around 11.7 million people. alone. This is because many countries in Asia (such as Indone-
Irregular power supply was identified as one of the factors sia, Vietnam and Thailand) and Africa (such as Nigeria,
which may be a common problem in the countries with Ethiopia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Tanzania and
poor infrastructure investment in utilities. Similarly, for the Sudan) have less than 10% sewer connectivity for the urban
septage collected from septic systems, only a small fraction population [67]. The estimated CPEs for point-source contri-
of septage is currently treated (0-5%) [68]. The exceptions to bution of the top five populous countries of Africa (Nigeria,