
[Ca?*], transients in control conditions and in a VTA slice pre-exposed to 10 pM baclofen for 15 min. Bar graphs on the right summarize data from similar experi-
ments where slices were pre-exposed to either 10 4M baclofen or 10 mM GHB for 3 and 15 min. (6) Patch-clamp recording from a VTA neuron on an expanded
timebase illustrating spontaneous SICs in control conditions (top trace), and lower trace showing effect of long duration 10 1M baclofen application (SICs high-
lighted by filled circle). (c) Summary data showing the frequency of SICs in control conditions, and following long (>1 h) exposure to either 10 mM GHB or 10 uM
baclofen. (Online version in colour.)

by glutamate, secondary to neuronal activation, and suggests as absence seizures are concerned, our results suggest for the
that they results from direct activation of astrocytic GABAgRs. first time that the ability of GHB to induce these seizures
GHB- (and baclofen)-elicited [Ca**]; transients were might involve an astrocytic component together with a neuron-
blocked following perfusion of VTA slices with either a nom- al component. This, together with the already described loss of
inal extracellular Ca”*-free solution or with CPA. Thus, our function of GAT1 in thalamic astrocytes of genetic models of
results indicate that both GHB and baclofen astrocytic absence seizures [29] and the fact that GABA transporters
responses in VTA involve intracellular Ca?* stores and their affect astrocytic [Ca?*]; transients [55], clearly stresses the
refilling by extracellular Ca**. Whether GHB activity requires importance of this glial cell type in the generation of these
Gio proteins (which are classically associated with neuronal non-convulsive seizures. Finally, our data showing a block of
GABAgR activation) or Gg proteins (which have been strongly GHB-elicited astrocytic [Ca*]; transients by NCS382 provide
linked to Ca?* release from intracellular stores) remains to be a potential explanation for the anti-absence effect of this puta-
elucidated, as is indeed the case for the astrocytic response to tive GHB receptor antagonist, the action of which had so far
baclofen in VTA or any other brain region. been difficult to reconcile with its lack of action on neuronal
Finally, in contrast to the activation of astrocytes, brief response in thalamus [3], one of the key regions responsible
application of GHB and baclofen had no effect on spontaneous for the generation of these non-convulsive seizures.
[Ca?*], transients (see control grey bar in figure 4a), but Drugs that cause addiction act in the VTA to increase dopa-
decreased their frequency when applied for periods of mine release in target areas, notably the nucleus accumbens. It
15 min or longer. A similar picture was obtained when looking has been suggested that GHB achieves this by inhibiting