synapses and to lead to profound molecular as well as CS side chains, is mainly found in the soluble fractions, the
structural changes in the pre- and post-synaptic compart- 53 kDa fragment is more tightly associated with membranous
ments in vivo and in vitro [1—3,33]. Here, we found that fractions such as synaptosomes and light membranes (elec-
brevican cleavage at synaptic sites is a hallmark of this plas- tronic supplementary material, figure $1). This suggests that
ticity and thus indicates a crucial involvement of the ECM in brevican cleavage may not only loosen the ECM structure

homeostatic processes. by degrading one of its major components, but also locally


removes the non-permissive cue for structural plasticity, the (0 Extracellular matrix modulation and functional
chondroitin sulfates. However, brevican is not the main CS-

bearing molecule in the ECM. In fact, it has been suggested plasticity

this may be the closely related lectican aggrecan [34]. Indeed, the mature form of the ECM is not only a plasticity-
ADAMTS4 cleavage of brevican is very likely accompanied restricting structure, but as a series of works have shown it is
by cleavage of aggrecan, the first known substrate of the important to maintain LIP, also a measure for synaptic
enzyme, which was therefore termed aggrecanase-1 [15,16]. plasticity [42]. In fact, a number of mice lacking different com-
Thus, it is very suggestive that also other substrates of ponents of the ECM show deficits in synaptic plasticity.
ADAMTS4, such as the members of the lectican family [17] Maintenance of LTP is dramatically impaired in brevican
and importantly aggrecan, are processed during synaptic mutants, a phenotype that can be mimicked by application of
plasticity, which indeed would remove a substantial part of anti-brevican antibody. Also mutants for tenascin-R, a direct
the negatively charged CS moieties from the neuronal sur- binding partner of brevican in the ECM, exhibit deficits in both
face. Considering the similar architecture of the proteins [7], LTP and in long-term depression (LTD). Treatment of hippocam-
it is plausible that ADAMTS4-mediated cleavage of the lecti- pal slices with chondroitinase ABC or hyaluronidase (Hyase),