
homeostatic processes. by degrading one of its major components, but also locally


removes the non-permissive cue for structural plasticity, the (0 Extracellular matrix modulation and functional
chondroitin sulfates. However, brevican is not the main CS-

bearing molecule in the ECM. In fact, it has been suggested plasticity

this may be the closely related lectican aggrecan [34]. Indeed, the mature form of the ECM is not only a plasticity-
ADAMTS4 cleavage of brevican is very likely accompanied restricting structure, but as a series of works have shown it is
by cleavage of aggrecan, the first known substrate of the important to maintain LIP, also a measure for synaptic
enzyme, which was therefore termed aggrecanase-1 [15,16]. plasticity [42]. In fact, a number of mice lacking different com-
Thus, it is very suggestive that also other substrates of ponents of the ECM show deficits in synaptic plasticity.
ADAMTS4, such as the members of the lectican family [17] Maintenance of LTP is dramatically impaired in brevican
and importantly aggrecan, are processed during synaptic mutants, a phenotype that can be mimicked by application of
plasticity, which indeed would remove a substantial part of anti-brevican antibody. Also mutants for tenascin-R, a direct
the negatively charged CS moieties from the neuronal sur- binding partner of brevican in the ECM, exhibit deficits in both
face. Considering the similar architecture of the proteins [7], LTP and in long-term depression (LTD). Treatment of hippocam-
it is plausible that ADAMTS4-mediated cleavage of the lecti- pal slices with chondroitinase ABC or hyaluronidase (Hyase),
cans separates the HA-binding N-terminal domains from the which removes CS from CSPGs or digests HA, respectively,
CS-binding regions, thereby altering the fine structure of the leads to a reduction in LTP expression [43,44]. However, not
ECM. Because aggrecan is mainly found in PNN-bearing only LTP and LTD are affected by ECM removal, but also synap-
neurons, cleavage of this molecule would very likely reduce tic short-term plasticity [27] as Hyase-treated cells exhibited
PNN density. Thus, local ADAMTS4 activity removes inhibi- decreased paired-pulse ratio when compared with control cells.