or by a more in-depth risk-based analysis that is still grounded bird species to the Near Threatened category for the purposes
on an ADEPD approach. In our analysis, we were concerned of PD-based prioritization [13], other sources of uncertainty
with maximizing conservation effectiveness in the relative in prioritization rankings associated with threat status
short-term (within 50 years), and so the IUCN 50 transformation (e.g. status reassessments [43], variation in quantity and qual-
was chosen as most appropriate. Future work on this topic ity of available data for making assessments [44,45]) are
could conduct a thorough sensitivity analysis on these prob- harder to control for, but could be incorporated in the trans-

abilities of extinction, which would help to evaluate the formations. For example, the probability of extinction for an


Endangered species could take into account the probability consideration. These issues could, however, become more | 8 |

that the species is in fact Critically Endangered or Vulnerable critical in future studies with bigger sample sizes.
and has been miscategorized as Endangered owing to uncer- To date, all prioritization methodologies share a common a
tainty. In the avian phylogenies used for our analysis, all limitation. In the case when two or more species have the s
polytomies were resolved using taxonomic data prior to the same phylogenetic value, which of them should be given a
final stage of tree construction, eliminating this type of uncer- higher priority over other equally valuable and threatened = 2.
tainty from calculations of evolutionary distinctiveness and species? This problem is common in EDGE, for instance in S
instead encompassing it in a distribution of 10000 different the amphibian priority list, where polytomic nodes of equally =
trees. However, polytomies are likely to be present in other threatened species feature the same EDGE ranking [14]. =
large-scale phylogenies that we may also wish to assess using Equally threatened sister species can have the same phyloge- “S
the ADEPD approach. An understanding of the impact of netic value even when phylogenies are fully resolved, ‘©
different polytomy resolvers on conservation prioritization, whether based on EDGE or ADEPD scores, as observed in = -5
including with ADEPD, is therefore a potentially important this study (e.g. the example of R. pachyrhyncha and R. terrisi. = =
area for future research. described above). In this study, we demonstrated for the =