incorporate new financial data into the analysis. Another overall even within the ADEPD-cost ranking (table 2).
factor that distinguishes ADEPD and HEDGE from EDGE is Perhaps a more reasonable compromise for a top ADEPD-
the potential to account for complementarity, or the changes cost species is represented by the Endangered tooth-billed
in extinction probabilities that arise during species prioritiza- pigeon (Didunculus strigirostris). This species has high ED
tion owing to the prior downlisting of more highly ranked and consequently is a top-ranking EDGE bird species [13],
species [16]. As the ranking differs between trees, we averaged but the cost of downlisting it is also thought to be reasonably
the complementary ADEPD scores across all 10 000 trees. This low [2], and so it is also ranked second overall in the ADEPD-
approach may be further refined in future to account for the cost ranking. Including a costing component to PD-based
variation in complementarity across a large number of different prioritization therefore provides a different priority list com-
phylogenetic templates; however, this will prevent full paralle- pared to EDGE and other metrics that only make use of data
lization of the computational costs, which represents a on phylogeny and threat. The differences shown by our
significant barrier to tractability. We found that taking comple- approach from these metrics reflect the urgent need to find
mentarity into account did not in fact make a difference to our a consensus among conservation protocols for efficient con-
overall ranking; this was most probably because there were not servation planning [18], and also the value of conducting

many examples of closely related species in our cohort under comparative studies and cost-benefit analyses to explicitly


and quantitatively compare different conservation strategies
and forecast potential outcomes before the implementation
of conservation initiatives [49]. For example, as our study
compared the ability of two phylogeny-based prioritization
methods to conserve future PD, one interesting direction for
future research would be to compare these to a random
species selection [50].