
ture, brain slices and intact brain, it could also be that no
simple rule relates synaptic or extrasynaptic NMDARs to exci-
totoxicity. The idea that excitotoxicity may not be caused solely
by extrasynaptic receptors is fuelled by recent and thorough

10. Conclusion

insights into the mechanism of the use-dependent NUDAR Extrasynaptic NMDARs have attracted a great deal of attention
blocker memantine [114,124]. Memantine was proposed to pre- and have become interesting targets for therapeutic strategies.
ferentially block extrasynaptic receptors over synaptic ones, Yet, still very little is known about the organization and
owing to its fast off-rate, low affinity, voltage-dependent bind- the physiological functions of these receptors. For instance, it
ing and uncompetitive nature [23,114,125]. The fact that is unclear whether extrasynaptic NMDARs that face glial,
memantine can successfully prevent neuronal death in vitro dendritic or axonal processes serve particular aspects of extra-
or in pathological conditions [23,126,127] has thus strongly synaptic NMDAR-mediated communication, such as SICs or
contributed to the extrasynaptic hypothesis of excitotoxicity. tonic currents. Additionally, the classical view of extrasynaptic
However, the group of Steven Mennerick demonstrates, in NMDARs being pro-apoptotic is being challenged and would
two recent studies, that memantine has a strong and fast inhibi- greatly benefit from a unified methodology. Although the use
tory effect on synaptic NMDARs (80% in 5 min) under basal of various preparations is difficult to circumvent, agreeing on a
low-frequency stimulation (0.04 Hz) and, more intriguingly, conventional, relevant and reliable way to induce excitotoxicity
that the neuroprotective effect of memantine is mediated by would provide more consistency and reproducibility across
the blockade of synaptic, rather than extrasynaptic, NUDARs studies performed in this field. It is also crucial to understand
[114,124]. These new insights, together with the controversy that the use of subunit-selective agents, in order to target
described above, strongly question the prevalent role of extra- synaptic or extrasynaptic NMDARs, is unreliable if not carried
synaptic NMDARs in triggering neuronal death during out with great caution. Indeed, no clear association exists