that the neuroprotective effect of memantine is mediated by would provide more consistency and reproducibility across
the blockade of synaptic, rather than extrasynaptic, NUDARs studies performed in this field. It is also crucial to understand
[114,124]. These new insights, together with the controversy that the use of subunit-selective agents, in order to target
described above, strongly question the prevalent role of extra- synaptic or extrasynaptic NMDARs, is unreliable if not carried
synaptic NMDARs in triggering neuronal death during out with great caution. Indeed, no clear association exists
excitotoxic conditions. between receptor location and subunit composition in most
Finally, subunit-specific approaches were also largely cases, in particular in young animals.

used in the study of excitotoxicity to assess a preferential invol- It seems clear that studying extrasynaptic receptors
vement of specific NMDAR subtypes, and they often requires a better understanding of the extrasynaptic space.
highlighted a role of GluN2B-NMDAR in causing neurotoxi- We here propose that the latter could be seen as highly orga-
city. But, here again, this idea is facing contradictory results nized, compartmentalized and regulated, similar to synapses.
(table 1). For example, even though they followed the protocols In fact, the etymology of the word ‘synapse’ refers to two
previously published in the field [15], Zhou ef al. [116] were tightly apposed cellular elements that together participate
recently unable to observe any preferential involvement of in the transmission of information. In that respect, the close
GluN2A- or GluN2B-NMDARs in excitotoxicity. By contrast, appositions of astrocytic processes onto dendritic shafts
the group of Giles Hardingham demonstrates in a recent (where some extrasynaptic NMDARs are found) are, per
study that the CTD of NMDARs, rather than the channel’s se, astrocyte—neuron synapses. As such, they might be
properties, is crucial in determining how they influence regarded as organized and complex structures (as the pres-
excitotoxicity [128]. They show in particular that the CTD of ence of B-catenins and SAP102/PSD95 suggests) designed
GluN2B-NMDARs enhances NMDA-induced excitotoxicity to transmit information, in a similar way to conventional
in cultures compared with the CTD of GluN2A-NMDARs, neuron—neuron synapses (figure 1).

and that this selectivity is overcome when strong stimulation
