constant of the cells key = 9.5 + 2.5 x 107° Nm! needs to ion of the distinct contributions of different myosin motors to
be related to material properties taking into account geom- cortical tension and force production. Stiffening in response
etry and the strong volume constraint imposed by osmotic to internal stress is, indeed, a characteristic property of semi-
pressure. In a naive estimate, assuming the cell to be an flexible polymer networks and has been seen in experiments
elastic solid, the spring constant can be related to an with model networks before [13,38]. Interestingly, blebbista-
effective Young’s modulus E of approximately 100 Pa [16]. tin-treated cells suspended in an optical stretcher appear to
This is comparable to the values obtained by atomic force stiffen (Jochen Guck 2014, personal communication), possibly
microscopy (AFM; making similarly naive assumptions) pointing to nonlinear effects or to a role of integrin-mediated
and optical trapping for small deformations [33]. One adhesion domains for the contractile acto-myosin cortex.
should keep in mind that this is not a material constant but Stress fluctuations also indicate the molecular origin of
rather a descriptive parameter dependent on both geometry cortical tension. The effect of blebbistatin implicates myosin as
and material constants of the cellular components. the responsible molecular motor. The @ ? power law in the
The fact that the depolymerization of microtubules with force PSD is a signature expected at shorter times than
nocodazole had no significant effect on cell stiffness is consist- the characteristic attachment time of the motors [38]. Minifila-
ent with the generally accepted wisdom that actin dominates ments of NMM are likely to produce holding times of the

the elastic response of most adherent cells [33,34]. Although order of 10 s, and w* scaling behaviour has also been observed


in experiments with probe particles embedded in cells [10,39]
and in cytoskeletal model networks [13]. These reports of
characteristic myosin force production times of the order of
10 s are one order of magnitude shorter than the observed oscil-
lation periods. We therefore think that more complex and
collective effects of cellular force generation and transduction