of large quantities of steroid and peptide hormones, protection mechanisms and endocytosis /exocytosis.
against xenobiotics and active transport. Hence, it has a high The rate of diffusion of an uncharged molecule is deter-
metabolic rate, and accounts for approximately 40% of the mined by Fick’s law of diffusion, and so is proportional to
total oxygen consumption of the feto-placental unit [8]. Inter- the surface area for exchange, the diffusivity of the molecule
posing such an active tissue between the maternal and fetal in question and its concentration gradient, and inversely pro-
circulations potentially reduces the oxygen available for the portional to the diffusion distance between the circulations.
fetus, and so the syncytiotrophoblast shows regional variations Given the importance of these structural parameters, it is
in thickness around the villous surface, being very thin and not unreasonable to assume that the requirements for diffu-
devoid of organelles at the site of vasculosyncytial membranes sional exchange, and in particular oxygen exchange, are the
and thicker over non-vascular parts of the villous surface. principal drivers of placental architecture. Hence, the elabor-
Having no lateral cell boundaries may facilitate flow of the ation of terminal villi and vasculosyncytial membranes as
syncytioplasm, and so help to optimize oxygen supply to gestation advances will increase the diffusing capacity of
the fetus [9]. the organ. This view is supported by the fact that the specific

The syncytiotrophoblast is a highly polarized epithelium, theoretical diffusing capacity (ml per min per kPa per kg
bearing a dense covering of microvilli on its apical border. fetus) of the placenta for oxygen estimated stereologically
The projections provide a surface amplification factor of remains constant across gestational age [20]. Furthermore, a

5-7x for insertion of receptor and transporter proteins. reduction in the mean thickness of the villous membrane is


observed in placentas from pregnancies at high altitude, are active in the syncytiotrophoblast of the human placenta | 3 |

enhancing the theoretical diffusing capacity [21]. [30,31]. During the first trimester, a number of proteins of
In addition to these structural parameters, the exchange of maternal origin accumulate in the coelomic and amniotic a