four times the cell biomass normally obtained with dextran- (ii) Use of stirred-tank reactors for large-scale culture of adherent
based carriers (http://www percell.se/principles40.gif). A cells on microcarriers: engineering issues
further advantage of porous carriers is that cells are shielded The development of the microcarrier technology by van Wezel
from shear-induced damage [22] and shear stress [23]. A [11] made it possible to use agitated suspension culture sys-
detailed description of different carriers available today can tems for the propagation of anchorage-dependent cells. At
be found in Chen et al. [15]. laboratory scale, the simplest system consists of an agitated
In view of their use for the expansion of stem cells, in par- spinner flask of several tens to hundreds of millilitres with
ticular, solid microcarriers have some critical issues requiring either a stirred magnetic bar, a derivative of it (figure 5a) or
further study. First, stem cells need specialized coating for a ball-shaped eccentrically rotating agitator (figure 5b),
expansion as well as differentiation. However, microcarrier whereas at a large scale, stirred-tank reactors of 10001 [19] to
surface pattern and distribution of the ECM are poorly con- 6000 1 [5] have been implemented for routine manufacturing.
trolled. And second, the mechanical properties of In addition to the availability of a controlled environment,
microcarriers have to be characterized and controlled for the advantage of a stirred-tank reactor is the fact that under
improved cell functions because the stiffness of the support ideal conditions a homogeneous culture situation is achieved,
has an impact on stem cell fate (see §5a,b for more details). meaning that anywhere in the culture vessel the culture
Seeding density. Hu et al. [24] performed a mechanistic environment is identical. Though the agitation should result
analysis on inoculum requirements for the cultivation of mam- in a homogeneous culture situation, in reality this is not the
malian cells on microcarriers and established a minimum case because any agitation will lead to the generation of tur-
critical cell number per carrier for colonizing a maximum bulences which are required for mixing purposes but which
number of carriers (Poisson distribution). Using a human are also characterized by several drawbacks. Thus, mixing
fibroblast cell line, the critical cell number was identified to of microcarrier-based cultures at a large scale is a critical
be five to six cells per carrier (type: positive-charged dextran- issue and needs careful optimization; however, details on
based carrier—Cytodex 1-like); however, this number can be mixing conditions and choice of the agitator at a large scale
reduced by employing an improved culture medium. An are proprietary and are not available. For a better comprehen-
equivalent optimal cell to bead ratio, 7, was determined for sion of critical issues of agitation at a large scale, basic