increased neonatal morbidity (frequency of transfer to special care baby unit) at the extremes of birthweight [3]. The cohort was divided into low (less than 5th
centile) normal (6—89th centile) and high (more than 90th centile) birthweight babies. The frequency of maternal KIR AA genotype + fetal HLA-C2 is increased in
the small babies. Presence of maternal K/R2DS7 and fetal HLA-C2 is associated with increased birthweight. (b) Proposed model for maternal KIR/fetal HLA-C inter-
actions at the site of placentation. In this model, the fetus has inherited a paternal HLA-C2 allele and is homozygous for HLA-C2. If the mother has a K/R AA
genotype, then KIR2DL1 binds strongly to trophoblast HLA-C2 molecules resulting in strong inhibition of uNK cells. This is associated with defective placentation.
In contrast, when the mother has a K/R AB or BB genotype, the KIR2DL1 alleles on the B haplotype tend to inhibit uNK function more weakly when they bind (2.
The KIR B haplotypes also contain the activating K/R2DS7. In this situation, uNK cells are stimulated to produce increased levels of cytokines such as GM-CSF that can
enhance placentation.

10. Variation of KIR and HLA-C genes affects HLA-C2 than KIR2DL1*003, the most common allele on the
. A haplotype [45]. We predict that there would be reduced
other diseases of pregnancy inhibition of uNK cells by KIR2DL1*004 on the KIR B haplo-
There is other independent evidence that will substantiate type. The fact that diverse GOS with a common underlying
this model in humans. In common with low birthweight, pathology of reduced trophoblast invasion also exhibit a simi-
obstetric syndromes such as pre-eclampsia and recurrent lar KIR/HLA-C risk profile, supports the idea that uNK/
miscarriage are associated with reduced uterine invasion by trophoblast interactions play an important role in all these
trophoblast [44]. Mothers at highest risk of these diseases are pregnancy disorders.
homozygous for the KIR A haplotype, and carry a fetus that If KIR AA and HLA-C2 combinations are significantly dis-
has inherited HLA-C2 from the father [35,37,38]. Women advantageous in pregnancy, this raises the question as to why
with a HLA-C2 fetus are protected from these disorders by they have not been eliminated from human populations by
the KIR B haplotype that contributes to protection in two natural selection. All populations have both KIR A and KIR
possible ways. Firstly, many KIR B haplotypes include the acti- B haplotypes and HLA-C alleles with both Cl and C2 epi-
vating KIR2DS1 that enhances trophoblast migration through topes, suggesting that a balance of KIR A and B haplotypes
enhanced secretion of ‘pro-invasion’ cytokines as described and their ligands is essential for the survival of a community
above. Secondly, the commonest KIR2DL1 allele on the B [46]. However, different populations across the world have