Owing to the genomic data and/or inference of one-to-one otho- eases of human placental invasion. PAML can be made to
logues by Ensembl being incomplete, the resultant phylogeny output, for each site of an alignment, a Bayes Empirical Bayes
varied across genes in the number and identity of terminal probability that the given site is subject to diversifying selection.
taxa. For 2093 genes, a phylogeny bearing one transition from Based on the alignments, it is possible to calculate, for each site
hemochorial to non-hemochorial placentation was available, for with Bayes Empirical Bayes p > 0.95, the amino acid(s) present
4293 genes a phylogeny bearing two such transitions was avail- in non-hemochorial species that are non-synonymous with the
able and for 10192 genes a phylogeny bearing all three possible amino acid present in human beings. The software application
transitions was available. PROVEAN [33] was used to predict, computationally, which of
PAML was used to fit a branch-sites positive selection model (in these apparently positively selected amino acid substitutions
PAML, model = 2 and NSsites = 2). The sites component of the would be associated with a major phenotypic effect, were they
model allows gamma-distributed variation in evolutionary rate to arise in human beings.

across sites of a gene, modelling the fact that diversifying selection
is likely to be rare and arising only within portions of the entire
coding sequence. The branch component of the model allows
the ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous substitutions (w) to
increase above unity—signifying positive, diversifying selection— ar sas
only on branches wfthe Mveae exhibit venting from inva- (a) Identification of positively selected genes

sive hemochorial placentation to less-invasive non-hemochorial Based on alignments of 16578 protein-coding genes across 18
forms. A likelihood ratio test was used to identify genes for taxa (four of which have non-hemochorial placentas, figure 1),
which the likelihood of the branch-sites positive selection model we identified a subset of 1254 genes which are inferred
is significantly higher than the likelihood of its neutral counterpart to have evolved adaptively in the three independent focal

3. Results