each family), then this may help localize the gene(s) responsible. Nonetheless, linkage has low resolution, implicating
large regions (loci) containing multiple genes, and is not well suited for detecting genetic effects that account for only a
small proportion of phenotypic variance. Association analysis, a complementary method with different strengths and weak-
nesses, tests for correlations between particular gene variants and a trait at the population level. It has greater power than
linkage to uncover small effect sizes and allows for higher resolution mapping. Still, due to linkage disequilibrium, a poly-
morphism that shows significant association is often not causal, but could be indexing an (as yet undiscovered) causal variant
nearby. The first association studies typically focused on testing small numbers of polymorphisms from selected candidate
genes, either based on hypotheses about the biology of the trait, or targeting regions highlighted by linkage. In recent years, it
became quick and inexpensive to carry out systematic genome-wide genotyping capturing much of the polymorphic content
of a phenotyped sample, allowing researchers to perform hypothesis-free association screening at high density across the
genome. These screens involve an enormous amount of multiple testing (hundreds of thousands of polymorphisms in
each individual), so rigorously adjusted thresholds for statistical significance are required to avoid false positives. Together
with the fact that most complex traits are likely to involve many genes with very small effect sizes, such studies require
sample sizes of thousands of individuals to achieve adequate power. In the post-genomic era, scientists also now make
use of copy number variation (CNV) data and rare variations emerging from next-generation sequencing studies. Again, the
key to success is use of robust statistics and replication in independent samples, to discount spurious genotype—phenotype
relationships. Ultimately, studies of gene function in model systems are needed to demonstrate true causal connections.

overlaps between AP and synaesthesia, another rare condition. coincidence) involve genes on chromosome 7 (figure 1b).
For people with synaesthesia, a stimulus in one sensory Williams—Beuren syndrome (WBS) is a well-characterized
modality automatically evokes a perceptual experience in microdeletion syndrome with a prevalence of approximately
another modality; for instance, particular pitches, keys or 1 in 7500 people, in which as many as 28 neighbouring genes
timbres may evoke specific sensations of colour. Like AP, in 7q11.23 may be deleted [55]. People with WBS often show
synaesthesia is thought to involve genetic contributions, with a distinctive cognitive/behavioural profile, which has been
some clues as to chromosomal regions of interest, but no defini- much studied by researchers interested in tracing connections