sideration of the evolutionary and cultural origins of music, top-down controlled processes, which deploy attention and
but rather presents hypotheses about how adaptive, exaptive knowledge of familiar sounds. The cues used by the auditory
and cultural processes may have been involved in some system in automatic ASA have been studied extensively.
aspects of musical emergence, in the context of a discussion of They can be grouped into two categories, those related to sep-
how to evaluate hypotheses in this domain. The first sections arating simultaneous sound sources (e.g. one person’s voice
focus on perceptual prerequisites for musical behaviour. from other voices at a cocktail party, see [39] for a review)
In particular, I will argue that much of musical spectral and those related to integrating successive sounds emitted
(pitch) and temporal (rhythm and metre) structure rests on over time from one object (e.g. integrating successive speech
adaptations of the auditory system for gathering information sounds emitted by one talker, or successive notes played by
about what sounding objects are present in the environment one musical instrument, into a single stream of sound, e.g.
and where they are located, a process termed auditory scene [40,41]). Of course, simultaneous and successive processes
analysis (ASA) [19,36]. Specifically, in §2, I present a brief occur at the same time. For example, in music written for
overview of ASA and discuss the fact that it is phylo- two voices, at any moment in time, the auditory system must
genetically old and emerges early in development. In §3, determine that there are two voices present, which frequency
I consider what aspects of musical pitch structure can and components (harmonics) belong to each voice, while at the
cannot be explained by ASA, and in §4, what aspects of musi- same time following the successive frequency changes within
cal temporal structure can and cannot be explained by ASA. each voice and integrating them into melodic percepts [42].
I argue that, rather than music exhibiting adaptive pressure Bottom-up processes in ASA are sometimes surprisingly
on the auditory system, it is largely the other way around: opaque to top-down influence [36], suggesting an evolutiona-

pitch and rhythmic structure in music has adapted or rily ancient origin. Indeed, ASA has been identified across


many species (see [43] for a review). ASA also emerges early in
human development [44-49]. The cues used to accomplish