which means that besides their potential bearing on already grammatical power, all of which turn on enhanced commu- =
proposed theories, they pose challenges for and may perhaps nicability and learnability in various ways [15,16]. This -
even inspire future ones. allows for learners to manage ever larger amounts of cultural J,

content without change in the neural resources devoted to it
(through data compression) and lets the cultural products — w

. , . os ‘exploit’ existing peculiarities of neural organization. For =
2. Constraint no. 1: cultural transmission instance, Zuidema [17] discusses the finding of Smith & =
Music, like language, is a complex product of cultural history. Lewicki [18] that the neural code in the auditory nerve of &
Its present-day patterns rest on traditions extending back over cats appears to be optimized for human speech sounds and = &
many thousands of years of inter-generational transmission of argues that this finding only makes sense if the direction of
learned cultural lore [6,7]. This simple fact, so obvious that it causality is inverted: speech sounds have evolved in a process
typically is taken for granted in theories of music origins, of cultural evolution to exploit features of a pre-existing
nevertheless has profound consequences for any attempt to general mammalian neural code, i.e. to achieve maximum
reconstruct the biological background to human music. discriminability under noise and time constraints.

If patterns of cultural goods were only matters of human Turning then to music, some major structural features of
tastes and preferences—a common misconception regarding music widely distributed across cultures might likewise be a
the nature of culture—the cultural transmission of musical consequence of cultural evolution. Until recently, the failure
lore would have no systematic or principled bearing on the of most musical tuning systems to conform to the mathematics
reconstruction of music origins. However, when sustained of small integer ratios was grounds for rejecting Pythagoras’s
over many generations, inter-generational transmission itself proposal that small integer frequency ratios account for the per-
exerts profound and predictable effects on the contents of the ception of musical consonance and harmonicity [19]. However,
transmitted lore, even in the complete absence of natural selec- recent modelling of the cumulative effects of physiological