lineages from our common ancestor, far predating its elabor- here are some general lessons from evolutionary theory
ation with specifically musical content in our case. If the that are relevant, but often ignored, in constructing evolutionary
propensity for an excited social noise-and-movement display scenarios for music (and language).
isindeed homologous in the two cases, one with musical content he first point is that biological evolution is always about
and the other without it, this bears directly on theories attribut- genetic change. Even though very few genes involved in
ing group or social functions to music. In case of homology the music have been identified [101], it is important to recognize
causal arrow may be reversed, the social efficacy deriving not that evolutionary scenarios, implicitly or explicitly, assume a
from the musical content of the group activity but from the moti- sequence of changes in gene frequencies in a population,
vational mechanisms of the group display itself, long antedating including the appearance of new genetic variants. Making
its musical elaboration. This ‘group excitement’ factor has to be this assumption explicit helps in avoiding the common fallacies
controlled for in studies designed to explore the emotional or of assuming (implicitly) unrealistic amounts of genetic changes
social significance and consequences of human music. (although that is difficult to quantify), assuming instantaneous
Assuming homology, for the sake of argument, in our adoption of new variants, or ignoring the fact that new variants,

case the communal display was eventually elaborated by arising from mutation, are initially always rare.


A second point is that although evolution involves non-
adaptive mechanisms such as random mutation and drift, a
series of non-adaptive genetic changes leading to a complex
new phenotype is exceedingly improbable. To establish the
plausibility of a scenario for a trait shared by all humans, we
thus have to show that each new variant conveys a fitness
advantage both when it is rare in a population and when it
has already become quite common. Moreover, we must show