To understand such novelties, analogous developments in unrelated animals
provide invaluable information regarding potential selection pressures and

THE ROYAL SOCIETY

PUBLISHING © 2015 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


ecological conditions favouring their evolution. The fruitfulness mechanism, (ii) that many features of languages are potentially | 2 |

of such exercises, whether pursuing homologies or analogies, best understood as resulting from cultural adaptation to (pre-
depends on the extent to which they can be constrained by existing) hominin cognitive and physiological features, and a
stubborn facts regarding the phenomenon in search of an (iii) that theorizing about the evolution of the biological basis s
evolutionary explanation. of language can only sensibly proceed if we explicitly take a
Here we focus on a small set of characteristics of human into account the possibility that cultural evolution has shaped = 2
music that should help constrain accounts of its origins. They the linguistic phenotype. There is no reason to believe that 5
can be conceived of as basic hurdles that must be cleared any of this is any less applicable to the cultural transmission =
along the way to a comprehensive theory of the origins of of music than it is to that of language. =
human music. They were chosen above all for their generality, Cultural evolution is a gradual, unconscious and obliga-  “S
with the additional desideratum of involving mechanisms that tory process that extends over many generations, and ©
generate consequences for the structural content of music. At restructures the cultural corpus in ways that increase its sal- = 5
present a number of these constraints are difficult to meet, ience, expressive economy, communicative generality and = =
which means that besides their potential bearing on already grammatical power, all of which turn on enhanced commu- =
proposed theories, they pose challenges for and may perhaps nicability and learnability in various ways [15,16]. This -
even inspire future ones. allows for learners to manage ever larger amounts of cultural J,