Better understanding of whether social immunity is a driver and group living phases during their life cycle. For instance,
or a by-product of the evolution of complex forms of group solitary phases alternate with group living phases in the
living first requires data on its occurrence across social sys- migratory locust, solitary life takes turns with family life in sub-
tems [23]. This review reveals that out of the 30 individual social insects such as burying beetles, and juveniles even have
and collective mechanisms known to mediate social immu- the capability to choose between family or solitary life in the
nity in eusocial insects and listed in table 1, 10 have European earwig Forficula auricularia [112]. Finally, increasing
counterparts in non-eusocial and four in solitary species. the number of studies on social immunity in non-eusocial
The distribution of these mechanisms across social systems is species would permit phylogenetic studies that are balanced
compatible with a scenario placing social immunity as a prere- across taxonomic groups and social systems, and, thus, to
quisite for increased complexity in the nature and frequency of properly trace the early evolution of collective defences in insects.
social interactions (i.e. in the evolution of group living). In par- In conclusion, using an up-to-date appraisal of the multiple
ticular, eusocial insects express the individual mechanisms forms of collective immunity reported in group living insects,
used by solitary species to limit parasite uptake from the this review highlights the fact that collective immunity is not
environment (first step of parasite infection), to which they limited to eusocial species (see also [23]). The distribution of
add the collective ones used by non-eusocial species to limit these mechanisms across the continuum from solitary to euso-
both parasite establishment in the nest (second step of parasite cial insects suggests that social immunity is a tenet of social
infection) and parasite transmission to the brood (first part of evolution, even if some collective mechanisms could be by-pro-
the third step of parasite infection), as well as specific ones that ducts of derived forms of group living. This review also
limit parasite spread between adult group members (second emphasizes that the vast majority of studies on social immu-
part of the third step of parasite infection). Note, however, that nity have focused on eusocial taxa, which calls for future
this scenario does not exclude that (at least) some collective empirical and theoretical research investigating its occurrence
mechanisms are secondarily evolved in eusocial systems. across a broader spectrum of group living species. Such

The second step to establish an important role for social additional studies would be particularly interesting, as they
immunity in the early evolution of social life is to show that would allow conducting phylogenetic studies to reconstruct