in evolutionary time owing to the fitness consequences of be sure, the question of how drug administration might
being embedded in an affiliative social network—fitness affect lymph node biology remains open.

advantages can accrue in the basic areas of resource acqui- Finally, we note that while the effects of our social
sition, protection from predators and access to potential manipulation had substantial impact on immune function
mates. It is clear that the quality of one’s social relationships and immune biology within lymphoid tissue, these effects
can also impact one’s health [13,19,39,40]. The principal failed to have an effect on SIV-related measures, specifically,
mechanisms by which this can happen involve changes in viral RNA and virus-specific IgG measured in peripheral
functioning of major stress—response systems, like the HPA blood at 10 weeks p.i. The circulation represents an easily
axis and the SNS, and through the impact that these changes accessible compartment diagnostically, but it is an imperfect
have on other tissues, such as those of the immune system. window into processes occurring in lymphoid tissue [37],
While the HPA axis has received considerable attention in which is largely where pathogen—immune system inter-
the past few decades, the goal of our studies was to examine actions take place. In fact, our previous study has
in more detail how social processes can affect the SNS. Using demonstrated that SIV replication occurs in lymph nodes in
our well-characterized model of social stress in adult male proximity to catecholaminergic fibres which, as we have
rhesus monkeys [16,23], we contrasted how social instability demonstrated in Experiment 2, are increased in density by
might affect catecholamine metabolite levels and immune social stress [20,22]. Ultimately, processes occurring in the
function during a period when the HPA axis is likely to be microenvironment of lymph nodes will be reflected in
minimally impacted (Experiment 1), and how these systems the periphery, but we are aware of no studies investigating
might be affected through pharmacological manipulation the relative time course of measures of viral replication in
(Experiment 2). these two compartments.

Our results show considerable plasticity in these systems. In conclusion, measures of endocrine activity, immune
That social stress can have an impact on various measures of function and lymph node biology demonstrate remarkable
immune function has long been known [15,20,30,31]. What plasticity in response to social conditions, showing changes