the sources of light pollution are spread on a large surface in elevation was set to zero for most of the grid points, except for a
comparison with the distance from the observer. The importance 2000m high three-dimensional Gaussian-shaped mountain
of the second order of scattering in that case may be understood located 30 km eastward from the city centre. The full width half
by the fact that the first scattering dome of light acts as an maximum used for the Gaussian function was 10 km. The city
extended source for the second scattering process, and thus its has a small slope. The westernmost pixel of the city is elevated
reduction as a function of the distance is less steep when com- by only 1m, while the elevation is gradually increasing to a
pared with point-like sources. In addition to the explicit height of 164 m at the easternmost pixel. This elevation change
treatment of the second order of scattering, the main advantage occurs over a distance of 20 km (equivalent to a mean slope of
of Illumina is its gridded based concept, allowing for change to approx. 0.8%). The spatial resolution used for this study is 1 km
the light flux power, the spectrum, the LOP, the lamp height, per pixel, and the domain covers a surface of 301 x 301 km, centred
the ground reflectance and the topography for each pixel inde- on the city. Light flux inside the city is set to 1000 W per pixel for
pendently. It is then possible to model complex situations as each of the key spectral lines used. The idea was to study the spec-
they appear in real cities and environments. tral behaviour of light pollution while excluding the fact that the

Generally, many gridded datasets are taken from satellite spectral line fluxes vary according to the mix of lamps installed.
remote sensing data (MODIS, DMSP-OLS, SRTM). But there are The five key spectral lines used are: 436, 498, 546, 569 and
still some limitations, especially those generated by the spatial 616 nm. Each line corresponds to a common line for high pressure
uniformity of some variables. Indeed, the AOD, relative humidity, sodium, for metal halide, or for mercury vapour lamps. The spec-
ground-level atmospheric pressure, obstacle height and the typical tral lines have been selected in such a way that they do not interfere
distance between obstacles are spatially uniform in the model. The with any important molecular absorption feature, and are only
chemical composition of the aerosol content and the size distri- slightly impacted by the Fraunhoffer and auroral lines.
butions are determined by using the complex refractive index The reference frame and set of standard parameters were defined
and bimodal lognormal size distributions suggested by Shettle & in order to be able to efficiently compare any variation of a given
Fenn [28]. Their corresponding optical impacts were calculated variable. The reference frame is summarized in table 1. Note that
with a Mie theory code for spherical particles, originally developed the averaged distance between obstacles and averaged obstacle