Within this overall initiative, there are specific areas that are neer of imaging studies, Karl Friston and his co-workers =
likely to be of increasing importance in the future. Connectomics, [16], which looks at brain activity computationally, emphasiz- -
dedicated to mapping at very high resolution the connections ing in particular attention and the ubiquitously important 2
that underlie nervous activity, is covered here by one of the key predictive coding, as well as in the paper by Gollo ef al. [17], S
players in it (Olaf Sporns [12]). Connectomics links, in a sense, which looks at the synchronization of activity that is critical in w
the past with the present and the future; its emphasis is not mood and introspection. Finally, the overall and seemingly 2
simply charting in very intimate detail the connections in the intractable problem of consciousness, never far inany profound = &
brain but also in how these connections change with time. thinking about the brain, is covered here by two central figures 5
What the German anatomist Bernhard von Gudden wrote (Tononi and Koch) in the study of consciousness [18] in the con- S
in 1886, ‘Anatomy first and then physiology, but if physio- text of Integrated Information Theory.
logy first then not without anatomy’ remains true today, Intriguingly, what the papers collectively reveal is the
although the methods of addressing the question have continuity from the past to the future of the fundamental
changed beyond recognition. questions that we ask about the brain. The fact that, over
There are, of course, new departures of looking at the 150 years since neurology and neurobiology began as a dis-
brain. The advent of brain imaging techniques has led to an tinct discipline, the grand, overall, questions have remained
unprecedented explosion in studies of brain activity that much the same illustrates what an enormous challenge it is
underlies sensation, action and, perhaps above all, cognitive to study the brain. But the papers also reveal how these ques-
states in health and disease. Yet, in an important sense, these tions, and the methods used to address them, have been
activities are departures from the on-going intrinsic activity refined to unprecedented levels, giving us hope that the
of the brain which, itself, may not be the same at all times. It next 25 years will see as well an unprecedented sophistication
is, above all, highly organized and, as one of the founders of in the answers we obtain.
brain imaging techniques (Raichle) explains here [13], under- Of course, there are important areas that we have not cov-
standing the rules that govern that organization will be an ered. This is due partly to limitations of space and partly to
important element in future brain studies. unforeseen circumstances which led some to withdraw their
Comparing the past and the future viewed through the contributions. But, together, the articles here provide an inspir-