that a control state must explicitly contain all of the elements well as in non-human primates [44] and rodents [45,46].
of the associated task state other than the one element of interest It should be noted that other more task-specific deactiva-
(e.g. seeing a word versus reading the same word). Using a con- tions had been noted by us and others [47-53], consistent
trol state of rest would clearly seem to violate that principle. with our more general idea that a default mode of brain func-
Despite our commitment to the strategies of cognitive psychol- tion [42,54] is broadly based across all brain systems (a
ogy in our experiments we routinely obtained resting state hypothesis that was to receive substantial support from
scans in all of our experiments, which was a carry-over habit functional studies of the brain’s resting state” [36,37]).
from experiments involving simple sensory stimuli [35] The discovery of the DMN made apparent the need for
where the control state was simply the absence of the stimulus additional ways to study the large-scale intrinsic, functional
(Le. a resting state’). At some point in our work, and I do not organization of the brain. A major step forward was the dis-
recall the motivation, I began to look at the resting state scans covery that this large-scale network organization, including
minus the task scans. What immediately caught my attention but not limited to the DMN, could be revealed by the
was the fact that regardless of the task under investigation, study of patterns of spatial coherence in the spontaneous
activity decreases were clearly present and almost always fluctuations (i.e. noise) of the fMRI blood-oxygen level
included the posterior cingulate and the adjacent precuneus dependent (BOLD) signal.

(figure 1a). Initially puzzled by the meaning of this observation,
Ibegan collecting examples from our work and placed them ina

folder which I labelled MMPA for mystery medial parietal area. (b) Top — down view: Spontaneous fluctuation

The first formal characterization of task-induced activity in the fMRI signal

decreases from a resting state was a meta-analysis of nine A prominent feature of fMRI is the noise in the raw, resting state
PET studies involving 134 subjects by my colleague Gordon BOLD signal (figure 1b). For many years, this prompted