pathways exhibited only unidirectional plasticity, irrespective suggesting that in old adults there is a neurochemical failure
of stimulation paradigm. In fact, in parkinsonian animals, a of the dopaminergic system underlying reward processing 2.
symptomatic dose of L-DOPA restored bidirectional plasticity operating in the ventral striatum [86]. 3
on both pathways to levels comparable to control animals. In L-DOPA does not only induce restorative positive thera- ©
dyskinetic animals, in the presence of L-DOPA, the indirect peutic effects in the ventral striatum. In fact, in PD patients —
pathway exhibited only LTD, whereas in the direct pathway, this DA precursor improves task-switching performance but =
only LTP could be induced. Thus, this study further confirms impairs certain aspects of cognitive function, such as reversal =
the concept that while normal motor control requires bidirec- learning [87,88]. In particular, it has been postulated that the -
tional plasticity of both striatal outputs, LIDs are caused by a beneficial effect of L-DOPA on task-switching reflects a com- 2
switch from bidirectional to unidirectional plasticity. pensation of DA levels in depleted dorsal frontostriata S
Another study of Surmeier’s group suggests that changes circuitry, whereas the impairing effect of LDOPA on reversa w
of spike-timing-dependent plasticity in the PD state and in learning reflects a detrimental ‘over-dosing’ of intact ventra od
LIDs are cell-type specific. In fact, the intrinsic excitability frontostriatal circuitry [87,88]. According to this hypothesis, ©
and corticostriatal synaptic connectivity of medium spiny functional imaging studies in PD patients have revealed that ©
neurons of the indirect pathway are lower in PD models than the beneficial effect of L-DOPA on working memory is  &
in the healthy condition. Conversely, these properties in accompanied by modulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal
medium spiny neurons of the direct pathway are elevated in cortex (PFC), which is strongly connected with the severely
tissues from PD models and suppressed in LIDs models [81]. depleted dorsal striatum. Conversely, it has been shown, by per-
The concept of a distinct pattern of abnormal bidirectional forming neuroimaging analysis in PD patients scanned in both
synaptic plasticity as a functional marker of PD and LIDs has ON and OFF condition during a reversal learning task, that
been recently confirmed in PD patients undergoing deep L-DOPA modulates reversal-related activity in the nucleus
brain stimulation [23]. The authors investigated whether low- accumbens, but not in the dorsal striatum or the PFC [88].
frequency stimulation of the internal globus pallidus and the In a study that analysed D2-like DA receptor binding
substantia nigra pars reticulata could induce depotentiation at through the use of positron emission tomography, it has been
synapses that had already undergone LTP. They measured the observed that PD patients with a DA dysregulation syndrome