
track the time course of a brain region’s involvement in a par- echn ques In animal studies

ticular function (e.g. figure 2c), the time course of crossmodal In the following section, we summarize studies that character-
influences on visual cortex excitability can be profiled. ize multisensory neural mechanisms using neuromodulatory
Ramos-Estebanez et al. [67] demonstrated that subthreshold methods in animal models. Animal models permit use of
tactile stimulation (electrocutaneous stimulation that was invasive techniques like electrical microstimulation, chemical
imperceptible) on the right hand increases phosphene and cryogenic deactivation, and more recently, optogenetics
occurrence in the right visual field when occipital TMS is (figure 4). These approaches, combined with psychophysics
delivered 60 ms after tactile stimulation [67]. This result and neurophysiology, have led to important advances in our
reveals that the crossmodal somatosensory influences on understanding of the brain systems and mechanisms that
visual cortex excitability are highly specific in space and support multisensory functions. Here we synthesize the
time. Additionally, the fact that subthreshold tactile stimuli relevant literature according to four general topics: (i) multisen-
modulate visual cortex excitability implies crossmodal influ- sory network interactions supporting attention and orienting
ences operate via automatic, pre-attentional mechanisms. behaviour, (ii) crossmodal activity in putative unisensory
Interestingly, Ramos-Estebanez et al. found that subthreshold regions, (iii) optimal cue integration, and (iv) neural and

stimulation of the right hand increases phosphene occurrence synaptic architecture for multisensory integration.


(©) (@)
& c :

Figure 4. Invasive neuromodulation techniques. (a) With cooling deactivation, cortical tissue temperature is reduced to block neural activity temporarily [71].
(b) With chemical deactivation, pharmacological agents are used to block neural activity temporarily [72]. (c) With electrical microstimulation, low-amplitude