mental states could, in principle, take on patterns that fail stimulation to result in the formation of pathological desires, a
to easily fit without commonsense taxonomy for understand- probably owing to tissue conduction of the electrical cur- s
ing human action, and therefore call it into question as an rents.’ It is not uncommon for addictions to gambling or = =
adequate picture of agency. Whether DBS and other brain pornography or for hypersexuality to develop in people for- 3.
interventions will constitute an eliminativist challenge to merly uninterested in these things, or those who may have 5S
agency is, at least in part, an empirical question that must had only mild interest that was easily sublimated while in =
be answered by looking at the effects of DBS on the entire an unstimulated state. More particular alterations in desires =
spectrum of ways in which we conceive of agency. That is, have also been reported, such as in the case of ‘Mr. B’, the “2
examine the nature of local challenges. 60-year-old OCD patient who developed a strong preference ‘©

for the music of Johnny Cash with stimulation of the nucleus >
accumbens. Under stimulation, the patient wanted to listen = =
6. Local ch allenges exclusively to Johnny Cash music, despite the fact that  S
before DBS the man had wide and eclectic musical tastes

Does DBS result in patterns of effects that seem to deny easy [27]. Moreover, his exclusive attraction to Cash’s music was,

accommodation in our commonsense psychological frame- abolished when the stimulators ceased to function.!” R
work? Examination of case studies should help us answer Less focused motivational effects are also frequently S
this question. Of particular interest are case studies in reported with DBS [17]. For instance, a professional woman 2
which patients undergo marked changes in their mood, com- who had been energetic and dogged in fighting symptoms of =
mitments or proclivities while undergoing stimulation. Here, her Parkinson’s disease for years was successfully treated by 5

I have not undertaken an exhaustive search of the literature,
but instead illustrate my point with a few case studies that