ematical approach to biology that took account of the physical that are locked in the chromosomes and so are not free to dif- s
forces and constraints on an organism’s development. fuse through the cells. Hormones and skin pigments might <>

Turing left Cambridge in the year that the Theoretica’ also act as morphogens. All one really needs to know about
Biology Club was formed, but he seems to have had no con- them is that they diffuse and they react (triggering some devel-
tact with Waddington’s crowd while he was there, and it is opmental feature). This is why Turing’s model is now known
not clear that he would have done so had he remained. Al as an example of a reaction-diffusion system. It was not,
the same, the interests of this august group might have however, the first such, as we shall see later.
been expected to prepare the ground for a warm reception Given the presence of these morphogens, one can see that
of a paper claiming to offer an explanation of the ‘chemica’ there are deviations from spherical symmetry in the blastula.
basis of morphogenesis’. That, on the contrary, Turing’s That is because random diffusion does not produce perfect
paper was largely ignored for several decades is partly an uniformity: there are small, chance fluctuations in the concen-
ironic consequence of the fact that another Cambridge scien- trations of the substances, just as there are random local
tist with a physicist’s pedigree—Francis Crick—reoriented variations in national birth statistics or in the local tempera-
interest in the ‘chemical basis’ of developmental biology in ture of a glass of water. Over time, these should average
another direction. For Crick and Watson’s discovery of how out and vanish—unless some process exists that will amplify
genetic information may be encoded in DNA seemed at such irregularities, so that they break the symmetry
first to provide a more fruitful avenue for exploring the spontaneously and irrevocably.
roots of growth and form. The task of decoding the molecular Turing was nota physicist, and it is not clear that he realized
message of the genes, and the molecular mechanisms by that such symmetry-breaking by fluctuations was already well
which they interact and cooperate to orchestrate the cell, known in physical theory. It occurs, for example, in the behav-
was to preoccupy biology for most of the second half of the iour of a magnet cooled through its so-called Curie point, where
century. It is only in recent years that this gene-centred view it switches from being non-magnetic to magnetic. Above the
of biology has begun to reconnect with the mathematical Curie point, the poles are randomly oriented; below it, they
and physico-chemical picture provided by Turing. are aligned, creating a net magnetic field. But which way do