ings on a balloon. The detailed changes in these patterns, that they were first reported in a real chemical system: an
such as a characteristic ‘unzipping’ of two merging stripes, oscillating reaction somewhat similar to the BZ reaction,
is perfectly mimicked by a Turing model [21]. However, known as the chlorite—iodide—malonic acid (CIMA) reaction.
later work with the similar patterning system of the zebrafish Patrick De Kepper, Jacques Boissonade and their collabor-
has shown that although this pattern does seem to result from ators at the University of Bordeaux saw a band of
autoactivation and long-range inhibition between the two stationary spots develop in a strip of gel into which the
pigmented cell types (black melanophores and_ yellow CIMA reagents diffused from opposite sides [27,28]. The fol-
xanthophores)—making it a genuine Turing pattern—these lowing year, extended Turing structures were generated in a
interactions do not depend on the diffusion of morphogens, two-dimensional layer of the CIMA mixture, and switching
but result from the properties of the network of direct between spots and stripes was achieved by altering the con-
cell-cell interaction [22]. centrations of the reagents (figure 7) [29].

Turing’s travelling waves might also produce pigmentation In biology, it turns out that Turing’s mechanism is in fact not
patterns. Meinhardt has shown that an activator—inhibitor generally necessary to break the symmetry of a fertilized egg—
scheme with a third morphogen that creates short-ranged but in many organisms this is disrupted from the outset by maternal
long-lasting inhibition can reproduce the kinds of complex pat- proteins diffusing from one side of the embryo. There is
terns seen on some mollusc shells, which are in effect frozen evidently a great deal more symmetry-breaking that must
traces of two-dimensional travelling waves on the rim of the happen for a zygote to acquire its full body plan—but it remains
growing shell (figure 6) [23]. far from clear that Turing patterns have much to do with this.

It is worth pointing out that there is still no real consensus For example, the stripe patterns of protein expression that
on what many of these animal markings are for. The default appear in the fruitfly embryo look superficially like Turing’s
assumption has tended to be that they conceal the animal as stripes, but they are not generated by the self-organization
camouflage, but this is by no means obviously true in many inherent in his model. Instead there is a hierarchical cascade
cases. Some molluscs, for example, spend much of their life of patterning steps involving the straightforward diffusion of