the growth of new leaf buds (primordia). In 2003 it was communities. These might account for the patchiness of zoo-
shown that phyllotaxis is regulated by proteins that ferry plankton in the sea and the phytoplankton on which they
auxin through the outer ‘skin’ of the stem up towards its graze [43]. And there is rather compelling evidence that a
apex [41]. Existing leaf buds soak up auxin and thus act as Turing-type mechanism accounts for structures formed by a
sinks, inhibiting the formation of any new buds nearby. species of ant [44]. Mediterranean Messor sancta ants collect
Phyllotaxis is one of the oldest and most compelling prob- the bodies of expired colony members and arrange them in
lems of biological pattern formation, not least because it has a piles. The ants constantly pick up and redistribute the corpses,
mathematical character that seems at first deeply mysterious. producing a kind of ‘diffusion’ of bodies. Nonetheless, after a
The leaves or florets are typically arranged around the stem certain time the locations of the piles stay fixed. Because ants
ina spiral pattern, and when this is projected onto a horizontal are more likely to drop a body on a pile as the pile gets
plane—as it is in the plant itself for the arrangement of florets in larger, there is a positive feedback (activation) controlling
the head of a sunflower or daisy (figure 8)—one finds that there their growth, analogous to that by which sand ripples form.
are in fact two groups of counter-rotating spirals. In each of the There is also long-range inhibition, because the region sur-
two groups, the numbers of spirals are always successive num- rounding a big pile gets swept clear of bodies, making it less
bers in the Fibonacci series, generated from the pair {0,1} by likely for a new one to be started in the vicinity. The result is a
adding together the two preceding numbers: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, series of stationary clusters of corpses, and if the ants are con-
13, 21, 34... fined in a Petri dish then these clusters are created around the
Why should the spirals obey this rule? A common view is perimeter, with precisely the ring geometry that Turing first
that the Fibonacci arrangement enables the most efficient pack- explored in 1952 (figure 2). Mechanisms like this might underlie
ing of the florets. This may well be true, but it does not explain many other aspects of habitat formation and grouping, such as
the mechanics of how the growing plant ‘finds’ this solution, nest construction, in higher organisms.
any more than explaining the leopard’s spots in terms of Even human communities, orchestrated by social feed-
camouflage accounts for how the pigmented spots actually backs on behaviour and movement, might organize
form on the leopard foetus. It seems conceivable, at least, themselves into Turing patterns. A reaction—diffusion model
that Turing’s scheme might provide the biochemical mechan- has been proposed to explain the phenomenon of crime hot-