been adaptive and sufficient to result in low incidences of age and/or organ specific and subject to diverse trade-offs

cancer (less than 10%) given the life history of primitive with other life-history properties [3]. In conclusion, we hope

humans. Thus, human cancer incidence is likely an inevitable fora lockstep between more complete mathematical treatments — 2
consequence of life history, evolutionary mismatch and living of the evolution of cancer suppression and empirical evidence ‘S
far beyond the age of last reproduction (although inclusive fit- to refute or inform these models. s
ness effects of grandparents throughout human evolution may ~
produce effective fecundity well past actual fecundity [36}). Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this article have been =
Thus, our model predicts that the once-upon-a-time adaptive uploaded as part of the electronic supplementary material. 3
level of cancer suppression in humans is now insufficient to Acknowledgements. We thank Mark Lloyd, Michael Hochberg and two -
prevent, in the absence of medical intervention, a high lifetime anonymous reviewers for discussions and helpful comments on — _,
risk of cancer in our modern world, a fact readily confirmed by this topic and the manuscript. 8
the burgeoning cancer rate in the modern era. Funding statement. Financial support came from grant no. S

1U54CA143970-01 from the Moffitt Cancer Center PSOC, NIH/NCI =

As prospectus, our model points to a number of promising and a grant from the McDonnell Foundation. =
research avenues. In bio-prospecting for cancer-suppression Authors’ contributions. R.A.G., JJ.C. and J.S.B. designed the study. J.J.C. =
adaptations, long-lived mammals with fecundity well into performed the computational experiments. R.A.G., JJ.C. and J.S.B. S
old age (elephants, bowfin whales and naked mole rats) wrote the manuscript. 3
remain excellent subjects. However, our models demonstrate Competing interests. We have no competing interests.

References
1. Gatenby RA, Gillies RJ, Brown JS. 2010 The 11. Birch LC. 1948 The intrinsic rate of natural increase © 21. Payne NF. 1984 Population dynamics of