mounting fears that forensic science is failing and if we have studiously avoided contact with it since that time— ‘2
remain inactive, then we should prepare ourselves for miscar- except perhaps what is read in fictional accounts and = ‘©
riages of justice and not just a national but a global crisis in watched in the media. We cannot expect a lay audience = 5
confidence and capability. to appreciate the nuances of our discipline nor expect =
In just the first three months of 2015, we have seen criti- them to have the confidence to be critical and challenging =
cism of the scientific validity of low copy number DNA® of our reasoning. We need to be clear and honest -
and the mathematical software used to de-convolute DNA professional science teachers and communicators. 2
mixtures in both the USA® and Australia®. The validity of “
conclusions drawn by the FBI on hair evidence has These two concepts are inherently reliant on a symbiotic we
been heavily criticized’ and the scientific validity of ballistics relationship between science and its scientists and the law and = 2
has been challenged®*. However, in this ruling there also lurks its lawyers, and perhaps especially in an adversarial system ©
an astonishing judicial compliance accepting that the status quo we need to abide by standards that recognize what is agreed s
of poor, if not absent scientific underpinning for some areas of and uncontroversial fact and what is open for debate and = =
forensic evidence is acceptable. Forensic science is rightly being interrogation within the context of the case. We must be in a
held to account and so are her scientists. Are we now experien- healthy position to embrace the very best of the technological
cing the end of the beginning or the beginning of the end of advancements (past and current) presented to us so that they
that predicted crisis? can serve the ultimate purpose of fairness and judicial equality
Whichever it is, we must stop paying lip service to the pro- in the identification of truth and the implementation of justice.
blems at the heart of our community, and simply demanding Such stringency does not reject or inhibit emerging science,
more funding will not make it all disappear like a bad dream. rather it requires us to manage it responsibly and effectively to
Only changes to culture and communication, in true partnership ensure that we do not transgress capability boundaries. All of
with our legal colleagues, will turn this situation around and it our science, past, present and future, needs to meet agreed
will require bold and uncompromising scientific redress of the high standards of acceptance within both our own community
highest caliber. There can be no tolerance for shoddy science and that occupied by our legal colleagues.
and no space for the unqualified in the courtroom. It is time to Within the pages of this issue of the Philosophical Trans-