more funding will not make it all disappear like a bad dream. rather it requires us to manage it responsibly and effectively to
Only changes to culture and communication, in true partnership ensure that we do not transgress capability boundaries. All of
with our legal colleagues, will turn this situation around and it our science, past, present and future, needs to meet agreed
will require bold and uncompromising scientific redress of the high standards of acceptance within both our own community
highest caliber. There can be no tolerance for shoddy science and that occupied by our legal colleagues.
and no space for the unqualified in the courtroom. It is time to Within the pages of this issue of the Philosophical Trans-
stop doing ‘forensics’ and start doing real ‘science’ by real actions, we have tasked our authors with detailing some of
scientists that the courtroom can use with confidence. the current challenges facing our forensic science community.
It is almost inconceivable that the most sadly neglected Of fundamental issue is whether these have seen some
relationship within the forensic science ecosystem is actually redress and advance since the 2009 NAS report, and if not,
the one that is most fundamental to successful change—that what then do they think is the future for forensic science
between the scientists and their legal colleagues. This and its ability to provide a holistic approach that maximizes
relationship is core to the effective functioning of any future value to the triers of fact? It does not make comfortable read-
partnership and has long been a source of friction for reasons ing at times, but we must be brave enough, honest enough
that have little logical basis. This was the paradigm shift that and mature enough to face the reality of where we currently
the Royal Society events sought to address. That each side has stand—as to ignore reality is, in our view, not a viable option.
a full and realistic understanding of the needs and limitations There is no doubt that the forensic science ecosystem
of the other can only benefit the future health of the forensic stands at a critical crossroads and there must be a common
science ecosystem and this brings into focus two overarching responsibility taken for the changes that need to be enforced.
aspects of the scientific and legal interface that we can begin Of one thing we are absolutely certain, our current path is
to address with almost immediate effect. destined for disaster if we choose to carry on simply doing
more of the same. If we are to have any hope of redressing
(1) As scientists, we must provide the justice system with this lamentable situation then we must also be distrustful of
confidence in the evidence that we present within a parochialism and intolerant of sub-standard science and
criminal case and this can only be achieved through com- rogue practitioners. If we have a will to change our culture