cases often only display coronary stenosis or occlusions, poss- ‘>
ibly in combination with cardiac hypertrophy and unspecific © -s

(e) Demonstration at court findings such as pulmonary congestion. Here, if at all, the = =
Although many judges, district and defence attorneys and diagnosis is based on exclusion of other causes of death and =
jurors accumulate a certain medical knowledge over the years the possible, albeit rare, presence of histological changes in the -
and are often advised by physicians, they are essentially medi- cardiac musculature. 2
cal laymen. A clear and understandable presentation of the And last, but unfortunately not least, there are pecuniary S
findings is absolutely essential if these medical laymen are to issues. In many countries, even in the so-called ‘first world’, w
understand the presented findings properly and thus (hope- not every larger hospital possesses its own CT, let alone an ©
fully) judge correctly. Typical ‘blood-and-guts’ photographs MR unit. It goes without saying that, should finances be 5
of autopsies, often presented at court, do not necessarily help made available, these will primarily be allocated to help s
in giving a neutral, fact-based verdict, as especially jurors the living, and not for examining corpses. Therefore, even
may be emotionally influenced by such images or reluctant to though many forensic pathologists today would very much
study them with the necessary attention due to an intense aver- embrace post-mortem imaging, the lack of money will
sion to the documentation. Forensic imaging can be of help in prevent such undertakings.
these situations; indeed, it is our experience, that ‘clean’, blood- Apart from this, there is the issue of who should pay for
less images are easier to appreciate than a photograph of an such examinations. In Switzerland, even middle-sized hospi-
opened body in which only a physician acquainted with such tals and every university-based Institute of Forensic Medicine
images may see and appreciate the findings and draw the possess at least a CT. Although clinical CT and MR scanners
proper conclusions. are perfectly suitable for forensic purposes, there may be diffi-
To date, as post-mortem imaging is an emerging discipline, culties arising out of the sharing of such units for forensic and
our group only presents radiological findings together clinical purposes. For example, not many clinics (or patients)
with autopsy findings at court. Radiological findings such as will be fond of the notion of scanning patients after a decom-
fractures, retained bullets, knife tips, which are readily dis- posed, maggot-ridden corpse has been in the machine before.