
of adversarial trial procedure by legislative fiat [63,64], albeit These are not just lawyers’ professional values, but socially dif-

with (sociologically predictable) cultural confusion and fuse cultural traditions embedded in community sentiment,
elements of occupational resistance, which have yet to be political rhetoric and intersecting legislative policies. Criminal a
fully resolved. The geographical expansion of adversarialism proceedings on both sides of the North Sea are in principle 5S
is fuelled by institutional innovations in international criminal compliant with ECHR Article 6. But whereas to continental
justice [65,66] and, above all, by the programmatic agendas of observers English criminal proceedings appear anachronistic,
the Council of Europe and the (juridically and functionally sep- antagonistic, capricious, imperfectly rational and not fully com-
arate) EU. The European Court of Human Rights has pliant with the rule of law (see further e.g. [75,76]) continental
repeatedly said that elements of adversarial procedure are criminal procedure viewed from a British perspective seems = 2.
necessarily implied by the right to a fair trial guaranteed by cumbersome, inflexible, cliquey, inaccessible, undemocratic ‘
Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and surprisingly complacent in its routine fact-finding ©
(which has 47 states parties, comprising about a quarter of all (cf. [77,78]), for a system supposedly founded upon an un- — -5
the world’s countries). EU criminal law, too, propounds pro- compromising search for truth. Globalization and legal =
cedural protections for suspects and the accused, predicated cosmopolitanism have barely closed the short geographical =
on more proactive models of criminal defence characteristic distance between these rival procedural traditions, which— -
of adversarial jurisdictions [68,69]. The pragmatic realities when local particularities are examined at close-range—still 2
of constitutional politics and contemporary international seem worlds apart on myriad details of institutional design, S
relations thus presuppose that criminal procedure must be operational protocols and cultural values. w
substantially adversarial. National legislative choices have The demands of legitimacy, in both its normative and 2
accordingly been redefined as questions of degree, ideologi- sociological registers, have profound and far-reaching impli- ©
cal emphasis, cultural style and detailed institutional design. cations for the conduct of criminal adjudication. In a s
Secondly, with particular respect to forensic science and contested criminal trial in England and Wales, the prosecu-  &
other expert evidence, there is evident growing disquiet tion must be able to adduce persuasive proof of guilt in