inal wrongdoer (or, for that matter, acquit a defendant whom proceedings, even in the absence of a contested trial. Defence
it otherwise believes guilty on the evidence). counsel may be inclined to advise their clients to plead guilty
One can certainly debate the merits of these institutional if the (apparent) strength of the scientific case against the
arrangements, either as a purely intellectual exercise or accused appears overwhelming. Whomever is assessing the
with programmatic objectives. However, pending wholesale quality and strength of expert evidence at whatever stage of
radical reform, this is the system of criminal adjudication criminal proceedings—whether forensic scientists advising
we have in England and Wales, it is hallowed by longstand- police investigators, or prosecutors making decisions about
ing tradition, and—apparently—enjoys widespread cultural charge or case progression, or defence lawyers advising on
support. Broadly speaking, it seems to work for us; and so plea or devising a trial strategy, or trial judges ruling on evi-
far as I can discern, there are no grounds for thinking that dentiary admissibility, or juries deliberating on their
it is any less rational, effective or successful by its own verdicts—the same fundamental precept applies: forensic
lights than models of criminal adjudication found in other science and other expert testimony will advance the cause
legal jurisdictions which place greater reliance in fact-finding of justice only on condition that the evidence is methodologi-
on technical expertise. cally robust in its own terms, addressed to legally pertinent

issues, and communicated in a way that makes its evidential
value for the instant proceedings transparent and intelligible
to non-specialists.

5. Conclusion: paradigms and prescriptions Fundamental as they are, these elementary propositions are
Science appears in court as the handmaiden of justice and is, old news. The ‘top 20’ problems with forensic science evidence
in that fundamental sense, subservient to juristic ends. summarized in §2 will be entirely familiar to well-informed
Common law judges have consistently emphasized that readers. Nor are we lacking in proposals for reform, many of
trial with expert witnesses’ input must never become trial which have come around on the policy carousel more than
by experts usurping the proper, constitutional role of lay once before. Yet, there is considerable institutional resistance