between a defendant and crime sample. This was the position

3. Evolution of the balanced scientist

in the case of R v Dlugosz and, to cut a long story short, Historically and also in popular media, we have seen the foren-
the matter was eventually considered, along with two other sic scientist as performing a key role in the investigation of a
cases, at the Central Court of Criminal Appeal [1]. This is serious crime. Once a suspect has been arrested and charged
from the judgment: the investigator will have a strong conviction—and consider-
There was no dispute . .. that DNA evidence from a mixed profile able enthusiasm—for the view that the suspect is the person
could be used simply to establish that the defendant might have who committed the crime: if that conviction influences the
been a contributor or could not have been a contributor. It was evaluation of the scientist, then there is a real danger of the
accepted that it is often useful for a jury simply to know that kind of miscarriage of justice that has happened in the past
fact without any further elaboration. where the scientist has allowed investigative enthusiasm to
Consider the second part of the first sentence of that extract. If spill over into evaluative assessment. This is not just a historical
the scientist had been able to establish from a comparison and fictional danger—it exists today and Dror [2], speaking at
between the crime profile and the genotype of the defendant this discussion meeting, calls it contextual bias.
(formerly the suspect, of course) that he could not have been I spent most of my career as a member of the Home Office
a contributor to it, then that is a simple outcome that the jury Forensic Science Service (FSS) until its closure in 2010, and I
will have no difficulty in understanding. However, consider was fortunate to witness various measures that were taken
the converse: the judgment is saying that, provided the towards alleviating the problem of prosecution bias. The
observations justify the statement, it is useful for the jury to most important changes flowed from the time in the 1990s
be told that the defendant might have been a contributor to that the FSS was set up as a government agency, with greater
the mixture. Indeed, in the next sentence, the judgment financial independence than before and a cultural change
says that it is often useful for the jury to be told that without towards serving the need of our customers. As part of the
further elaboration. Let us see how that works out at court. The process of change, a project was set up to consider case