park from neighbouring properties (figure 1). Kakadu also

experiences cross-realm threats; for example, sea-level rise (c) Time lags
represents a potential cross-realm threat from the marine Closely linked to the consideration of how spatial connec-
realm to the freshwater realm. Examples of positive spill- tivity might bias evaluations in freshwater ecosystems is the
over effects include protected areas acting as a refuge or issue of appropriate temporal scales for measurement of
source for populations in unprotected sites and propagation baselines and outcomes, particularly with respect to the influ-
of benefits from protected areas such as improved down- ence of time lags. For example, water entering groundwater
stream water quality from vegetation management erosion aquifers may take decades before becoming part of the
control. Many of the actions to mitigate threats to terrestrial surface water system. Consequently, activities that affect
systems have an indirect benefit for freshwater ecosystems, water quantity or quality (e.g. regional aquifer drawdown)
highlighting the potential for positive cross-realm spill-over may not be detected until well after they have occurred.
[29]. Abraham & Kelkar [45], for example, found that terrestrial This is compounded by the fact that understanding
protected areas benefited freshwater species (protected sites of groundwater-surface water interactions is increasingly
had higher total and endemic fish diversity than unprotected recognized as a key knowledge gap in the management of
sites), demonstrating cross-realm benefits. freshwater ecosystems [46]. In addition, surface water connec-
Terrestrial evaluations often assume that neighbouring tions may also result in time lags when long distances and/or
forest units are independent and hence divide protected areas cross-realm connections are involved [22]. For example, the
into standard units of evaluation (e.g. 1km?* grids [9]); effects of managing catchment vegetation to reduce erosion
this assumption of independence does not hold true in and improve water quality may take many years to manifest
freshwater systems where neighbouring streams are often in aquatic ecosystems [47].
connected longitudinally, laterally and vertically. One poten- For evaluations of protection or management actions to be
tial approach to controlling for connectivity is to select units valid, they need to account for the potentially long delays (of
of evaluation that encompass all relevant connections, such decadal scales) in ecological responses of freshwater ecosys-
as floodplains, catchments or subcatchments. While selecting tems, requiring an understanding of the interactions among