mosaic VSGs. In this reaction, multiple silent VSGs (here, three: light blue, orange and green) are recombined together to form a new VSG that is a composite of the
three gene sequences. The VSGs that act as donors in segmental gene conversion are frequently pseudogenes and are normally located in disparate regions of the
subtelomeric array archive. Many details of this reaction are uncertain, and some assumptions or simplifications are made: segmental gene conversion to form VSG
Mosaics may not happen in the active BES, as shown here; gene conversion is shown to encompass only VSG ORF-internal sequences, but the reactions may be
‘anchored’ by upstream or downstream homology; VSG mosaics normally display much greater intermingling of the donor VSG sequences than is indicated here.

well as in the animal infective trypanosomes Trypanosoma vivax Borrelia burgdorferi) that use similar gene conversion strategies
and Trypanosoma congolense [31]. Even though the VSG catalo- based on antigen pseudogenes can generate antigenic variation
guing is still incomplete, the T. brucei genome can contain more and chronic infections with much smaller gene repertoires
than 2000 VSG genes (more than 20% of the coding genome), of (tens of genes) [7]. Moreover, until genome sequencing, the
which the majority exist in transcriptionally silent subtelomeric activation of new VSGs based on pseudogenes, though
arrays, although a substantial fraction are found in aneuploid detected [34,35], was thought to be a rare event during tryp-
minichromosomes. The VSG repertoire appears highly anosome infections; in fact, it appears to be the major driver
dynamic, with changes in VSG numbers and identities detect- of long-term infections and transmission [36-38].

able during strain propagation [30], and larger scale Two different gene conversion reactions contribute to
rearrangements leading to chromosome size variation within VSG switching (figure 2). In one reaction, an intact, pre-
and between strains [32]. Most VSGs are single copy in the viously silent VSG replaces the complete VSG in the active
archive, sharing little primary sequence homology with other expression site (figure 2a). This reaction is dependent upon
VSGs. However, only approximately 5-10% of the subtelo- flanking sequence homology, perhaps most notably
meric array VSG repertoire encodes intact and functional upstream 70 bp repeats that are uniquely associated with
VSGs, with the remainder either containing frameshifts or approximately 90% of VSGs [37]. The 70 bp repeats delimit
truncations rendering them incapable of generating intact the boundary of VSG gene conversion of intact VSGs
VSGs (approx. 80-85%) or encoding predicted features that from the subtelomeric arrays and the minichromosomes.
are atypical of VSGs (10%) [33]. Importantly, the VSG pseudo- VSGs in the silent expression sites also act as substrates in