
7. An idea popularized compared with the more familiar creatures of today. As
While Whittington’s contradiction of Walcott’s (and others) long as Whittington’s team dwelt on the peculiarities of Bur-
views on Opabinia were being published his graduate student gess Shale animals like Opabinia, the affinities of these extinct
Simon Conway Morris FRS was describing a selection of Bur- forms were likely to be obscured. Whittington was not con-
gess Shale animals that Walcott had overlooked: Nectocaris, vinced of the value of numerical methods, much less
Odontogriphus, Dinomischus and Hallucigenia. These too were cladistics, relying instead on experience and a deep knowl-
difficult to ally with any living group. Opabinia was the edge of morphology to identify species and genera and
first, but these other taxa also raised the possibility that determine their systematic position. In this, he was not unu-
taxa of high rank had evolved during the explosion of diver- sual among trilobite specialists or other palaeontologists of
sity that characterized the Cambrian, only to go extinct. the time. The validity of genera relied on their establishment
Opabinia’s iconic status rests not only on its remarkable mor- by an expert on the group, and taxonomy was based, for the
phology, but the fact that it was the first newly described most part, on authority. The first attempt to use statistical
Burgess Shale animal that apparently could not be assigned methods to analyse the relationships of Burgess Shale organ-
to a living phylum. This concept of ‘taxa of uncertain affinity’ isms was a collaboration between Whittington and me, as
was seized upon by Gould [6] in his best selling Wonderful life, one of his former graduate students [18,27]. We prepared a
where he characterized them as ‘weird wonders’. The giant matrix of morphological data on 21 Cambrian arthropods
predator Anomalocaris (figure 4b), which Whittington and and, with the help of John Temple, professor at Birkbeck Col-
Briggs described in 1985 [24], was also included in this lege, University of London, an expert on the application of
category. Gould saw Whittington’s Opabinia paper as repre- numerical taxonomy to trilobites, we used punched Fortran
senting a conceptual leap in our understanding of the cards to carry out a principal components analysis which
Cambrian explosion—tangible evidence that Burgess Shale identified nearest neighbours based on all the morphological
taxa might represent a riot of experimental morphologies characters we coded. We used the same data to create a cla-
that are not represented today [6]. Gould [6, p. 136] believed dogram, but the result was not based on a computer
that ‘Whittington’s reconstruction of Opabinia ... will stand as algorithm but on our own assessment of the sequence in