exist [81,82]. The unforeseen discovery of a third domain of consequence of improper (or simply absent) phylogenetic
life (the archaea) also gave credibility to the possibility that analysis [33,87]. Essential eukaryotic structures such as the
other domains might have gone unnoted too. Different nucleus and the nuclear pore or the complex endomembrane
claims for the finding of such additional domains have system of eukaryotic cells remain fundamentally unexplained
been published but, as discussed above, the most popular by any viral-based model for the origin of eukaryotes.
ones arose as a consequence of the discovery of giant viruses. Despite one decade of phylogeny-based refutation of the
These viruses were considered not only to define a fourth fourth domain of life and of several ad hoc hypotheses for
domain of life, but also to have played an important role in the viral origin of essential cellular features, strict phylogenetic
the origin of eukaryotes [21,83,84]. However, those conjec- criteria remain very often ignored in viral evolutionary studies
tures were very often based on rather naive phylogenetic and those claims are still published [30,92,93]. This evokes
analyses that did not take into account the technical difficul- what Bacon reproved four centuries ago: ‘The human under-
ties inherent to working with fast-evolving viral sequences. In standing when it has once adopted an opinion (either as
fact, whereas some topics concerning viruses (such as their being the received opinion or as being agreeable to itself)
living or non-living nature [33,85-87]) are matter of open draws all things else to support and agree with it’ [1]. In the
speculation and debate, their possible place in the tree of specific case of the question of the origin of eukaryotes,
life can be tested by applying rigorous phylogenetic methods. the incorporation of viruses as a speculative sister domain to
As mentioned above, most claims for the ‘fourth domain of eukaryotes or as the origin of the nucleus has not supplied
life’ status of viruses were based on simplistic phylogenetic any explanatory power that classical hypotheses based on
analyses, which ignored the abundant compelling evidence the interaction of cellular organisms (archaea and bacteria)
for high evolutionary rate and compositional bias of viral had not been able to provide already [10,94—97]. Thus, the
sequences that result in long branches in phylogenetic trees. application of Occam’s razor makes it unparsimonious to com-
These characteristics make viral sequences ideal victims for plicate the hypotheses for the origin of eukaryotes by including
the LBA artefact, leading to flawed phylogenetic trees where viruses in the current absence of mechanistic plausibility and
viruses branch as an independent group. In addition to the compelling phylogenetic evidence.
