were almost always based on methods dating from the 1990s derived from complex nucleated cells, he would have named
that have been shown to be inaccurate for much more recent them ‘Apokaryota’. Moreover, building on the idea that
questions! While a careful sociological study would be extant nucleated cells diversified after the mitochondrial
required to understand this baffling behaviour, our opinion endosymbiosis, he would have named the latter ‘Mitochon-
is that it stems from the subliminal prevalence of Aristotle’s driophora’, reserving the names ‘Karyota’ for the common
Great Chain of Beings, reinforced by the progressivism of the ancestor of all extant organisms and ‘Prokaryota’ for a
Age of Enlightenment, and from humans’ inclination for hypothetical ancestor of Karyota devoid of nucleus. Had we
trends and ‘stories that go somewhere’, as pointed out by used Apokaryota and Mitochondriophora instead of Prokar-
Gould [69]. An illustration of the strength of this prejudice is yota and Eukaryota, it is likely that our view of the evolution
the recurrent use of scale-related wordings such as ‘higher of life would have been quite different: ‘Mitochondriophora
plants’ or ‘lower animals’, a few per cent of manuscripts arose from Apokaryota’ being meaningless. Of course, this
submitted to evolutionary journals comprising this inap- would not have prevented some researchers from arguing
propriate terminology (H. Philippe 2015, unpublished data). that Apokaryota are in fact ancestral to Mitochondriophora,
Another one is that assertions such as ‘eukaryotes arose from exactly as some have proposed that Eukaryota actually pre-
prokaryotes’ [70] are commonplace, whereas the evidence for ceded Prokaryota, the burden of the proof being just

this stance is both scarce and weak [10]. transferred on different shoulders.


Table 1. Comparative bibliographical survey on tree reconstruction practices in studies dealing with shallow (i.e. metazoan evolution) versus deep (i.e. ToL root | 6 |
and archaeal/bacterial evolution) phylogenetic issues.

>
no. studies artefact awareness taxon sampling site removal heterogeneous model g
shallow phylogenies 5.