were run for 100 000 cycles and the burnin was set to 50 000 cycles. For clarity, subtrees were collapsed and named after their taxonomic contents. The scale bar
corresponds to one substitution per site and the long internal branches discussed in the text are annotated with their length. Bullets indicate branches that are
supported by PPs > 0.98. In spite of a general lack of resolution, the EF-Tu and EF-G subtrees hint at two different roots for the ToL and suggest that Archaea are
indeed paraphyletic, as repeatedly advocated in the literature.

constraints (e.g. relaxed selection). This means that long (such as the monophyly of Bivalvia, figure 2), it is rather per-
branches not only retain less phylogenetic signal but also bear plexing that the traditional bacterial rooting is taken for
a misleading signal, hence the observed LBA artefacts. granted by so many colleagues in the field.

This illustrates how easily our best phylogenetic methods
(here Bayesian inference under the CATGTR + I’ model) can

still be misled when model violations are large. In fact, this is 8. Difficulty to root the tree of life using
precisely what happens when one tries to root the ToL [87]:

the outgroup is incredibly distant (ie. a paralogous gene anciently duplicated genes

with a very different function, which favours heterotachy We re-examined the case of one anciently duplicated gene
and heteropecilly) while substitution rates for any marker are pair, the elongation factor: EF-Tu delivers aminoacyl-tRNAs
far from constant over billions of years. To this respect, we to the A site of the ribosome, while EF-G catalyses the trans-
do expect major accelerations for informational genes on the location of the peptidyl-tRNA. Even if these two functions are
branch connecting Mitochondriophora (Eukaryota) to Apo- quite different, as shown by the fact that only the GTPase
karyota (Archaea + Bacteria), at the very least because of the domain can be aligned, this disadvantage is compensated
absence/presence of transcription/translation coupling. by the preservation of mitochondrial/plastid copies and,
Other events, such as the adaptation to hyperthermophily or more importantly, by the absence of other inter-domain