events, which controls for age. It does not appear to come some pairs of branches show very high numbers of gene
from incomplete sampling either, as figure 5b shows that pre- transfer events. The heterogeneity is strongest in fungi,
dictions based on subsampling the species in each dataset still where some pairs of branches are predicted to have under-
converge to similar ratios of numbers of events for fungi and gone more than 150 gene transfers, or even 300 transfers on
cyanobacteria. To extrapolate the T/(T + D) values, we fit an tree B (figure 7). These transfers do not seem to be due to
ad hoc curve that reaches saturation exponentially starting from hybridization, as most of them are not replacement transfers,
an initial value for zero species. Using all subsampled replicates whereby a gene in a species is replaced by another gene
a least-squares Marquardt—Levenberg algorithm yielded the coming from another species (the median branch-wise frac-
similar asymptotic values of T/(T + D), with 0.8 + 0.1 (fungi tion of gene transfers that are compensated by loss on the
assuming tree A), 0.7+0.03 (fungi assuming tree B) and same branch, i.e. replacement transfers, is 31% for fungi on
0.74 + 0.01 in cyanobacteria. The same procedure for L/(T + tree A, 34% on tree B and 49% for cyanobacteria). For the
D+L) produced the slightly higher asymptotic value for same reason, these transfers cannot be misinterpreted events
fungi of 0.582 + 0.01 for tree A and 0.595 + 0.01 for tree B, of ILS. In fact, among genes that have only one orthologue
compared with 0.52 + 0.01 compared with cyanobacteria. per species, genes that have undergone a gene transfer tend

These genome-wide inferences confirm earlier reports to change position on the chromosome more often than
based on manual analyses of smaller datasets that significant genes that have not undergone a gene transfer (see figure 7,
numbers of transfers occurred in fungi, in particular in the right, for the Aspergillus clade). The pairs of branches with
Aspergillus clade [35-38]. Overall, these data show that gen- the largest numbers of transfers belong to the Aspergillus

omes in prokaryotes and eukaryotes are not undergoing clade, in agreement with the overall larger amount of transfers


(a) (b)
