points. This letter was intended to defend his discoveries— then ten hundred thousand of these living creatures could
‘merely so as to make my observations more credible in scarce equal the bulk of a course grain of sand’ [1]. Again,
England and elsewhere’ [8]. Leeuwenhoek typically wrote the colloquial language deceives. In a clarification sent to
with publication in mind (and later published his own Constantijn Huygens and Hooke, Leeuwenhoek writes
works privately whenever the Royal Society declined to do ‘Let’s assume that such a sand-grain is so big, that 80 of
so), but here he preferred to clarify exactly what he had them, lying one against the other, would make up the
done, doubtless anticipating that Oldenburg would eliminate length of one inch’ [12]. He goes on to calculate the number
superfluous details. In this, he would defer to the judgement of animalcules in a cubic inch; for our purposes here, his
of educated men, being careful, as was the custom of the calculation puts the length of his ‘very wee animals’ at less
times, to denigrate his own learning. But characteristically, than 3m. Bacteria. (He later describes bacterial motility

e would defer only on his own terms, and his self-portrait unequivocally [13]). He also notes that he deliberately under-
is in fact remarkably objective. ‘I have oft-times been estimates the number of bacteria in a drop of water—‘for the
besought, by divers gentlemen, to set down on paper what reason that the number of animalcules in so small a quantity
I have beheld through my newly invented Microscopia: but I of water would else be so big, that ‘twould not be credited:

ave generally declined; first, because I have no style, or and when I stated in my letter of 9th October 1676, that
pen, wherewith to express my thoughts properly; second, there were upwards of 1000000 living creatures in one
because I have not been brought up to languages or arts, drop of pepper-water, I might with truth have put the

but only to business; and in the third place, because I do number at eight times as many’ [14]. An innocent, early
not gladly suffer contradiction or censure from others’ [9]. example of spinning data to sell to a journal?
All those who have raged at the obtuse comments of But the natural philosophers of the Royal Society, in pio-
Reviewer 3 will sympathize with this last point; but like neering the methods we still use in science today, were not
Leeuwenhoek, suffer it we do. In his letter of 1676, then, easily spun. Leeuwenhoek’s letter had been read aloud over