transfer [42]. All chimpanzees in the Tai forest research groups does not yet represent the tool selection pattern of theircom- “3
know how to use wooden and stone hammers to crack open munity. It takes young group members many years to ©
nuts, and adjustment to the new group’s behaviour therefore become a proficient nutcracker [73]. With first nut-cracking — 5
lies in the frequency of hammer material selection. Despite attempts, they use inappropriate tools like their fist, only = =
potential different personal tool preference, the selection pattern mimicking the correct action. The ontogeny of tool selection =
of the new community was adopted rapidly by immigrants. Be- shows that with increase of age their tools selection pattern -
havioural stability within communities therefore does not reflects the unique selection pattern of their group 2
persist due to similarities between the immigrants’ new and (L. Luncz 2010, unpublished data). Only adult group S
former community but is most probably due to adjustments members permanently display the typical behaviour of a w
in hammer selection through social learning after immigration. community. Chimpanzees in captivity were found to seek 2
Previous work in the Tai National Park showed that not only social cues preferentially from higher ranking, prestigious ©
tool selection patterns are influenced by conformist social learn- and older individuals, which leads to uniform group behav- 8
ing, as we found 27 behaviours to be both different and stable iour [72,74,75]. These findings might explain the fact that
between three neighbouring communities [43]. immigrants did not copy all group members present at a
Conformity has been presented as an essential feature of similar rate but favoured social information from resident
human culture [62]. However, it becomes increasingly difficult group members over their personal knowledge only if they
to exclude this mechanism for other social animals [63]. Novel were considered higher ranking.
findings in wild animals have also been supported by an array Previous research in wild chimpanzees showed that lower
of empirical studies in a captive or semi-captive setting where ranking individuals are especially receptive to social trans-
conformity plays a role in social learning mechanisms of non- mission [48,49,76]. Higher innovation rates in juveniles and
human primates [64-66]. So far only chimpanzees and lower ranking group members does not lead to an increase
humans have been found to converge on the behaviour variant of cultural features in a group, as older group members do
that is most common in the group, even if they have alternative not seek social information from the young or lower ranking
behaviours in their individual repertoires that accomplish the ones [77]. This could be a reason why innovations and also
same goal just as efficiently [67]. Conformist transmission has behaviour of immigrants does not seem to spread throughout