(c) Stone-flaking and the simultaneous regulation of

multiple parameters and expert knappers have a preference for increased platform
Several observations can be made with respect to the values orientation suggests that they capably operate in an ego-
of functional parameters measured (i.e. velocity, kinetic centric reference frame where the coordination of the strike
energy, potential energy, trajectory length, platform orien- is made with reference to the position/movement of their
tation), both across tasks and with respect to expertise. As postural hand. As such, we emphasize the bimanual nature
presented in figure 3, regulation of functional parameters of the striking action in the stone-flaking task.
varies according to expertise in the stone-flaking task. No Clearly, the broader activities of nut-cracking and stone-
such effect is observed in nut-cracking where most subjects flaking typically engage the use of both hands in qualitatively
experience high success rates regardless of experience in differentiated roles [59,60]. In the case of nut-cracking, how-
stone-knapping. Based upon these results, it may be said ever, once the nut is placed upon a support surface, the
that despite the fact that cracking a macadamia nut using a postural hand will have limited contribution to the functional
hammer and anvil technique may be a novel activity, adult aspects of the blow itself. Indeed, some actors may choose to
human subjects are able to rapidly master the required par- hold the nut with the postural hand as the blow is deliv-

ameters and accomplish the task at hand. Conversely, the ered—as was the case for three subjects of the present


experiment. But even in this case, the postural hand remains afforded with the introduction of the anvil, huge amounts 11 |

fixed for the purposes of the strike itself, having no dynamic of energy would be dispersed if using a comparably softer
impact upon the man-tool-environment reference frame. substrate as a working surface [68,69]. a
This assertion regarding the relative complexity of biman- Based upon the description of bipolar knapping techniques s
ual coordination in stone-knapping is supported by the presented by other research teams [65,70,71] and the results of a