‘What is your fortune, my pretty maid?’
‘My face is my fortune, sir’ she said.
‘Then I can’t marry you, my pretty maid.’
‘Nobody asked you, sir’ she said.

Opie and Opie [34] trace early versions of this rhyme back to the troubadours of the fourteenth century with its feminist
punch line ‘Nobody asked you, sir’. However, it is not clear whether the line that we consider to be the most telling, ‘My
face is my fortune’ predates Jenner’s vaccine. It is usually interpreted to mean that as she is poor she depends on being
pretty to marry; we propose it reveals traditional folk knowledge that, being a milkmaid, her face will continue to be
immune from ugly pock marks and she will not succumb to smallpox.

In his treatise [39], Jenner does not refer directly to folklore of milkmaids being protected from smallpox by previous
exposure to cowpox but, rather, he comments on the converse: ‘It is a fact so well known among our Dairy Farmers, that
those who have the Small Pox either escape the Cow Pox or are disposed to have it slightly’. However, he did mention his
own observation, before he experimentally vaccinated James Phipps, that those who had acquired cowpox naturally were
immune to variolation and to smallpox. Moreover, awareness of the protective effect of cowpox appears to have been widely
appreciated in the west of England, where 22 years before Jenner, Benjamin Jesty in Dorset had inoculated his wife and two
sons with cowpox, although he did not conduct a scientific study or follow it up with challenge by variolation.

Jenner’s study of the behaviour of cuckoos also seems to be based on commonly believed tales of nature which Jenner
patiently tested. Cuckoos could not be heard calling before mid-April and Jenner correctly surmised that they migrated to
warmer climates during the winter. Moreover, the cuckoo chick ejecting its non-genetic ‘siblings’ from its foster nest must
have been noted by observant country folk before Jenner so carefully documented this form of parasitism.

As a physician in rural Gloucestershire, Jenner had the intuition to heed folklore but to test the evidence scientifically. In