with current medicines have led to their incorporation into There are still areas of regulation of cell-based therapies,
accelerated approvals systems and schemes for access to unli- however, which present challenges for developers, and
censed medicines. Examples of this are the new system for the majority of these are within the area of quality and
the regulation of regenerative medicines in Japan which manufacturing requirements.
came into force in November 2014 [76], breakthrough therapy One significant challenge is that raw materials of biologi-
designation and accelerated development path in the USA cal origin are frequently required in the manufacture of cell
[77] and the new adaptive pathways scheme in the EU [78]. therapies and sourcing materials of adequate quality can be
These paths are being applied to a number of cell-based challenging, with a risk-based methodology increasingly
therapies from the different technology classes. For example, adopted and guidance becoming available (table 2).
in the EU, a conditional marketing authorization, which Another common challenge with autologous cell thera-
is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet pies in particular is variability of the starting material from
medical need when the benefit to public health of imme- the patient and the limited amount of cells or tissue which
diate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact can be made available for destructive in-process, final release
that additional data are still required, was granted to the and stability testing. The approval of marketing authoriz-
Holoclar corneal epithelial limbal stem cell product for the ations for four autologous therapies in the EU to date
treatment of moderate to severe limbal stem cell deficiency shows that these challenges can be addressed. In this
in February 2015. Additionally, an approval under exceptio- regard, it is important to define the acceptable variability of
nal circumstances in the EU on the basis of only 27 patients starting material, which may have a broad range of accept-
in open-label clinical trials was granted in 2012 to Glybera ability separate to the acceptable variability of the
(alipogene tiparvovec) gene therapy for LPL deficiency, a manufacturing process itself, which will usually have a
potentially life-threatening, orphan metabolic disease. In more narrow range. It is the control and variability of the
addition to accelerated licensing schemes, national agencies manufacturing process itself and the results of product
can also operate under the EU framework to enable unlicensed characterization and release testing that facilitate a robust

medicines to become available to meet the special needs of comparability strategy enabling the effects of changes to the