conflict. Such nested or multi-level contests have also been ing group extinction to the basic model by using pay-

studied [118,123,127—130] with a general conclusion that exter- off function (2.3b) leads to a model studied by Gavrilets &

. . ° oe : Fortunato [77]. As mentioned above, in their model, there
nal conflicts cause increasing within-group cooperation and . . a .
reduced free-riding is a threshold valuation vei, so that only individuals with

UV; > Verit Will contribute at ESS while all other group-mates
will free-ride. The group effort increases with inequality.

(ii) Heterogeneous groups Fitness of high valuators can be smaller than that of low
Baik [131] generalized the Katz et al. [124] model for a case of a valuators in spite of the fact that the former are getting the
multi-group contest in which group members differ in their biggest share of the reward. Under some conditions, fitness
valuations (or shares) of the prize (see also [76]). His prediction of the highest valuators can be very close to zero so that
is that within each group only an individual with the highest they can be viewed as effectively sacrificing themselves for
valuation of the prize will make a positive contribution while the benefit of their groups. Figure 5b illustrates this model
the rest will contribute nothing. This result implies that neither numerically assuming all c; = 1.

the group size nor the distribution of valuations among n - 1 The behaviour of the highest valuators may seem altruis-
other group members matter. However, if individual efforts tic but, as explained in [77], actually it is not. For example,
are limited from above by a certain exogenously specified in the case of hierarchical groups, dominant individuals
value, then multiple individuals can become contributors maximize their fitness by contributing; given the subordi-
within each group and alternative equilibria with different nates do not contribute at all, dominants will not be better
sets of contributors become possible [34,131,132]. Epstein & off by reducing their contribution. Thus, the non-contributors