emphasized that the ion channel data are most consistent contexts, and the origin of individuated phenotypic charac- = 2
with the early origin of ‘very rudimentary’ nervous systems ters, or morphological novelties. Of particular relevance ‘2
that persisted for a long time before the independent and con- here is the need to distinguish between the origin of evol- ‘©
vergent expansion of channel complexity. This long period of utionary novelty, defined as the formation of individuated,
rudimentary nervous system development likely involved the homologous characters [61], and innovation, the ecological =
deployment of genes now associated with the nervous system or evolutionary success of such innovations. Morphological =
in proto-nervous system tissues, similar to Trichoplax today novelties do not necessarily lead to immediate evolutionary -
[13,53,58]. Such a model of early nervous system evolution success if that is measured by an increase in taxic diversity. 2
is more consistent with the environmental data for the Macroevolutionary lags between the origin of the morpho- S
Cryogenian and early Ediacaran than is a model for an logic novelty and innovation have been well documented in w
early, homologous nervous system shared across eumetazo- the fossil record [18,62,63]. Similarly, inferring patterns of 2
ans. Note that the model suggested here is independent of morphologic innovation from comparative developmental ©
the controversy over the phylogenetic position of ctenophores studies is hampered by the fact that the acquisition of a par- 3
relative to sponges and cnidarians. ticular genetic novelty is not necessarily immediately

Many evolutionary biologists instinctively link morpho- expressed as a developmental innovation.

logic novelties to ecological opportunism and evolutionary
success. This is hardly surprising as Simpson [59] and Mayr
[60] explicitly made such claims. The discovery of deep
conservation of developmentally significant gene and gene
networks, as described in §2, led to similar expectations
that novelties in developmental patterning would find

Competing interests. I delcare I have no competing interests.