of nervous systems in the fossil record must largely rest on 4. Nervous system evolution and environmental

phylogenetic considerations, and not necessarily on simply

‘reading’ nervous systems from fossilized behaviour. One pos- change: the Ediacaran view
sible way of doing this might rely on being able to distinguish The view that animals (and especially animals likely to have
behaviour based on internal versus external representations of complex nervous systems) arose in the Ediacaran is one that
the environment, with the implication that only organisms I have long defended (e.g. [51,58]). The alternatives, based on
with a complex nervous system would be capable of producing molecular clock evidence that places their origins well before
the latter. However, this in turn would imply the ability of in the Cryogenian or earlier (e.g. [49]), lack direct evidence
animals with complex systems to be able to form internal from the fossil record, and continued searches for convincing
representations, and it is not at all clear that even expert crown-group members of any animal phyla before the very
navigators such as insects in fact have this ability [46]. end of the Ediacaran (e.g. [59]) have yet to yield results
The appearance of definitive trace fossils from about 560 Ma (cf. [60]). The context for nervous system evolution is thus
onwards is thus likely to reflect the presence of bilaterians likely to be the complex changing ecology and environment
from that time onwards, as today only bilaterians make such of the Ediacaran period of ca 635-540 Ma [61]. Although our
traces; we can thus also say that whatever nervous systems knowledge of this period remains relatively fragmentary, it is
characterized early (i.e. stem-group) bilaterians were also pres- clear that at several levels it was an era of exceptional
ent by this time. Similarly, one can also say from the pure change, with, for example, major continental rifting and
geometry of animal phylogeny that stem-group cnidarians, collision taking place (e.g. [62]) and striking shifts in oceanic
sponges and ctenophores—and whatever nervous systems and atmospheric composition. How these changes might

they possessed—were also present. be in detail related to the rise of the animals is of course

