expression pattern in flat preparations of three ventral neuromeres of G. marginata and Tribolium castaneum (beetle). Note the difference in the width of the
neuroectoderm in these species. The boxes frame the neuromere of the second leg segment in G. marginata and the second thoracic neuromere of 7. castaneum,
respectively. (d,e) Schematic of the arrangement of the neural precursor groups in hemi-neuromeres of G. marginata and the spider Cupiennius salei. The precursor
groups expressing msh are shown in brown. (fg) Schematic drawings comparing the expression of the dorsoventral patterning genes vnd (blue), ind (red) and msh
(brown) in the neuroblasts of Drosophila melanogaster and T. castaneum. The neuroblasts 6-2 and 7-2 express both vnd and ind in D. melanogaster, while neuroblasts
4-2 and 5-3 express ind and msh in T. castaneum. |1—13, leg segment 1 to 3; pc, procephalic neuroectoderm; t1—t3, thoracic segments 1 to 3; vne, ventral
neuroectoderm.

neuroectoderm not only generates a higher and more D. melanogaster [35,36]. If the overall AP patterning mechan-
diverse number of neurons than the ventral neuroectoderm isms are connected with the regionalization of the CNS,
but also forms the complex brain centres such as the mush- these differences might contribute to existing variations of
room bodies that integrate sensory information and regulate the arthropod CNS. In D. melanogaster, AP axis formation is
behaviour [27]. In vertebrates, the Wnt/®-catenin pathway in fact directly linked to the AP regionalization of the CNS.
patterns the CNS along the AP axis and in some species AP morphogens (e.g. Bicoid, Hunchback) regulate the genes
determines the overall AP cell fates (reviewed in [28]). An that pattern the CNS along the AP axis (e.g. orthodenticle,
involvement of this signalling pathway in patterning the ems, Hox genes) (e.g. [37,38]). However, there are no data
AP axis has also been demonstrated in lophotrochozoans, available on how overall AP patterning is linked to CNS
in particular in regenerating planarians, where the regionalization in arthropods other than insects.
reduction of Wnt signalling results in radial hypercephalized Thus, while the overall function of BMP in DV axis for-
individuals [29]. mation and patterning of the neurogenic region seems to be
In arthropods, Wnt signalling seems to regulate posterior conserved across the animal kingdom, the function of
elongation and segmentation but is neither required for the Wnt in AP patterning of the CNS has been restricted to the
formation of anterior (head) segments nor the overall AP pat- metameric units in arthropods. Furthermore, the upstream
terning of the CNS [28,30]; rather, the function of Wnt in mechanisms that set up the initial differences in CNS AP
establishing AP fates in the arthropod CNS seems to be con- fates have diverged in arthropods.