ring reduced to a semicircle on the dorsal side. Three pairs of juveniles, this neural mass fills most of the anterior third of
longitudinal neurite bundles originate from the brain-like the body (figure 1 and [50]). The so-called brain consists of a
structure and run posteriorly, until they disappear within the compact bilobed mass with a peripheral layer of neuronal
nerve net [24]. The next branching family, Paratomellidae, is cell bodies surrounding a central neuropile, all located
the sister group of Prosopharyngida plus Crucimusculata. around the statocyst, with two ocelli located laterally [50].
Paratomella rubra, a representative of Paratomellidae, possesses The NS contains also three pairs of neurite bundles that run
two ring commissures connected by two tracts and also a con- along the major body axis: a dorsomedial pair (dmn), a dorso-
centrated network of cells in the area around the statocyst. Two lateral pair (dln) and a ventrolateral pair (vIn), all connected
neurite bundles extend along the whole length of the body by numerous commissures that are arranged irregularly
[52,53] (fig. 12 in [6]). More clear evidence of evolutionary (figure 2c-e; fig. 2 in [29]) [50,51]. This compact (centralized)
transformation is seen in the clade Prosopharyngida (includ- arrangement is preserved from the juvenile to the adult stages.
ing: Hallangiidae, Hofsteniidae and Solenofilomorphidae; The granular pattern obtained by the anti-synaptotagmin
fig. 12 in [6]). For instance, within Hofsteniidae, there are antibody is explained by the fact that synaptotagmin is a
species with the NS located in different positions with respect highly conserved protein that acts as a calcium receptor located
to the epidermis: from a NS built as a basiepidermal plexus to a in synaptic vesicles [58]. The structures revealed in both
NS completely positioned below the epidermis, with some adult and juvenile developmental stages coincide with those
species showing some intermediate states (as in the case of obtained using neuronal or neurotransmitter markers such as
Marcusiola tinga, where the dorsal neurite bundles are at the the anti-tubulin tyrosine antibody, or the anti-serotonin and
base of the epidermis while the rest is positioned clearly RFamide antibodies [50,51]. However, our synaptotagmin
below it [54]). In the case of Hofstenia sp., the entire NS is antibody is most probably a pan-neuronally expressed epitope
located below the epidermis and consists of a wide ring of and exclusive to the NS, not labelling other structures such as
neurites, thickest in its dorsal part, with nerve fibres and those revealed with less-specific antibodies, for instance the
somata that are partially located below the body wall muscula- anti-tyrosinated tubulin. On a more practical level, it allows

ture, and having some neurons surrounding the statocyst us to perform immunochemistry and in situ hybridization