members of the Xenacoelomorpha. In particular, we aim at We used phylogenetic analysis for subfamily classification.
understanding how families of putative regulatory and effector First, we aligned our sequences with the reference species:
neural genes have evolved within this clade, and how these Lottia gigantea, Homo sapiens, Xenopus tropicalis, Paracentrotus
changes relate to the inherent complexity of the NSs. In order lividus, Nematostella vectensis, Platynereis dumerilii, Anopheles
to achieve this, we have started using the (mostly complete) gambiae and Branchiostoma floridae (Dr Jenifer C. Croce provided
genomes of the acoel S. roscoffensis and the xenoturbellid Wnt aligned protein sequences of the first four species; the rest
X. bocki. We focus our attention on the basic helix-loop-helix were downloaded from the NCBI database). With this data, we
(bHLH) transcription factors, known regulators of NS develop- reconstructed the phylogenetic trees (figure 4 and electronic
ment that control aspects such as neural differentiation or supplementary material, figure S1) and obtained the results
migration [73,74]; and on the G protein-coupled receptors that are summarized in table 2. We were able to complete the
(GPCRs), known transducers of signals from many sensory analysis with good bootstrap values (more than 85 in most
systems. Our interest in the latter group lies not only in their cases, except one of them that was 69) for all the X. bocki
crucial and varied functions, but also in the fact that they are Wnts (we found clear orthologues of: Wntl, Wnt2, Wnt3,
the largest and most diverse superfamily of transmembrane Wnt4, Wnt5, Wnt6, Wnt7, Wnt8, Wntl0, Wnt11 and Wnt16)
receptors [75,76], which allows us to assess gene complement (figure 4). We found two putative Wnt8 orthologues; however,
changes (and families’ diversification) within the clade and since they share a stretch of 35 amino acids it is possible that
relate them to the different degrees of NS centralization they correspond, in fact, to two predictions for the same Wnt
observed in the constituent species. protein. Intriguingly, it was impossible to classify with confi-
A detailed study performed on those two groups of genes dence the S. roscoffensis Wnts, since they do not clearly
is already published [29]. Summarizing, and as shown in cluster with members of any known Wnt subfamily. When
table 1, we found that, as a general pattern, the number of they do, their positions in the tree are only supported with
genes belonging to each family is lower in S. roscoffensis excessively low bootstrap values, all having very long branches
than in X. bocki: 18 bHLHs and 225 GPCRs were present in (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). In fact, even
the former; 33 bHLHs and 258 GPCRs in the latter. This is though the reference species used were the same in both
consistent with, for instance, the number of Hox genes trees, the bootstrap values obtained for all the families decrease