[6]. It is an exciting time to be a comparative biologist, and it (or ‘primary’) homology (figure 2a). This process, also
is clear that the improved resolution of animal relationships referred to as delimitation of homology, uses different criteria
gained from phylogenomics will help resolve many of the cur- such as the distinct position with respect to other body
rent debates of morphologists and evo-devo researchers, and regions, and correspondence in structure [117,120,121] (‘simi-
also open up new horizons for future research. larity’, but see [122]). Gene expression and gene regulatory

network analysis falls into the ‘similarity’ criterion.
Remane’s homology criteria contain, beside position

5. The phylogenetic framework and testing and similarity, also genealogical origin (ontogeny) [123; see
also 124]. Ontogeny as a criterion for homology was high-
hypotheses of homology lighted as problematic as early as 1894 by Wilson [114]
Increased taxon sampling not only helps to resolve animal based on the fact that different developmental pathways
relationships, but also leads to a better understanding of can still produce homologous structures [115,116].
the evolution of morphology and its underlying molecular After the identification of potential homologies, these have
mechanisms. The extension of developmental studies to to be tested in a second step for congruence within the context
representatives of taxa at key phylogenetic positions has led of a phylogenetic framework [40,112,119-122,125] (figure 2b).
to fundamental insights into the role of transcription factors It is not sufficient to accumulate data about the similarity,
and signalling pathways in the evolution of morphology, as position, and gene expression patterns of a character to claim
well as insights into genome evolution. However, compari- homology, without a test for congruence that follows in a
sons of characters over large evolutionary distances, with second step. This step is essential to discriminate between hom-
sparse phylogenetic sampling and the lack of a phylogenetic ology and homoplasy of a character. Only after legitimation
framework, can only lead to very vague hypotheses about using a parsimony test based on a phylogenetic tree, can the
homology [108-111]. potential or ‘primary’ homology become a ‘secondary’ hom-
Formulation and testing of homology hypotheses of mor- ology [117]. De Pinna [117] brings up the example of the bat