
ventral muscle

Figure 8. Leeches and nematodes have independently evolved sinusoidal locomotor behaviours using different CPG circuit motifs. (a) Top image is of a leech swimming,
the bottom is a series of traces from a movie, showing the sinusoidal dorsal—ventral movements (adapted from [79]). (b) The nematode C. elegans also moves using
sinusoidal dorsal—ventral movements (adapted from [80]). (c) The leech segmental CPG has neurons that fire in three phases of activity, represented at per cent of the
period (0%, 33%, 67%). Although most connections are inhibitory, there is no half-centre motif (based on Mullins et al. [79]). (d) A hypothetical computational model of
the C elegans locomotor CPG suggests that it could be located in the head. It contains mostly excitatory connections with inhibitory feedback. There are also inhibitory
inputs to muscles that help set up the alternating movements. Note that the neurons in this model, which is based on Karbowski et al. [81] are hypothetical and do not
follow the C elegans nomenclature.

behaviours can be produced by different neural mechanisms. In summary, the diversity of animal behaviour comes
In fact, even homologous behaviours can diverge in their about through a variety of different mechanisms. It is clear
neural mechanisms. Homologous neurons can diverge in that knowing the neurons and knowing the behaviour is not
their functionality in networks, with entire networks being sufficient for understanding the neural basis of that behaviour,
rewired. Within a clade of closely related species, a rhythmic but it is an important start. This has significance for neuroscien-
behaviour can be lost and regained several times, perhaps tists trying to extrapolate from one species to another and for
because of retained latent circuitry. evolutionary biologists interested in explaining the evolution
CPG circuitry itself might be under evolutionary pres- of behaviours.

sure that is invisible at the behavioural level. Thus, there can

be divergence of neural circuitry underlying similar

behaviour. Although the details of the behaviours and the Competing interests. I have no competing interests.