Hodos, Ford Ebner, Sven Olaf Ebbe Ebbesson and C. Boyd
Campbell, as well as myself. Although the impact of this
group was limited, their enthusiasm and breadth of interest


launched the new era of comparative evolutionary neuro- morphology, circuitry and physiological properties of, for | 4 |

biology. They, as well as other groups, such as that at SUNY- example, Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Although for most
Downstate under the leadership of Walter Riss, Max Cowan of the past 150 years, the validity of the conservation of organ- a
of Oxford and J. Reperant in Paris, were willing to challenge ization and connections at levels of the spinal cord, cerebellum s
the ensconced dogmata about non-mammalian vertebrates. and brainstem was generally accepted, this idea did not extend a
It is also helpful to point out that for the first half of the to the conservation of cells and circuits to the thalamus and tel- 2
twentieth century, tracing neuroanatomical pathways was a encephalon (i.e. ‘forebrain’. In fact, similarities in organization 5
prominent part of neurobiological research. What is presently or connections within the thalamus and telencephalon between =
referred to as ‘connectomics’ is perhaps best thought of as a mammals and non-mammalian vertebrates had little support =
modern ‘re-badging’ of neuroanatomical tract tracing. By the in the published literature. Ss
end of the twentieth century, morphological analysis was In an attempt to directly explore the validity of these ©
being done at an ever more refined level, combining tract assumptions, I concentrated on studies of birds, with easily = -
tracing with single cell morphology, synaptic localization, observed behaviours, and large and well differentiated thal- =
identification of the molecular profiles, transmitter characteriz- amic and telencephalic regions. Although unsure as to what =
ation, receptor identification, second messenger systems and I might uncover (is not that a definition of what research is -
elegant electrophysiology. When such analyses are applied in all about?), I was impressed by the richness of avian behav- 2
pursuit of clarifying differences in various classes and species, iour, and the occasional reports of their visual, auditory and S
we may refer to this as ‘evolutionary connectomics’. Such com- cognitive abilities. How did they manage to perform tasks w
parisons provide us with unique insights into the changes that that, in mammals, required the presence of an intact neo- 2