functional because it increases commitment to in-group has the obvious benefit of ensuring that individuals are
norms that in turn promote cooperation. We refer to this invested in their own survival and reproduction, and are
proposal as the Norms-Focused Hypothesis. As we will see, persistent in the face of challenge or failure. However, these
there is considerable evidence that is broadly consistent details are not critical for our purposes here. Rather, we
with this proposal, including that individuals preferentially would merely emphasize that self-enhancement is a pervasive
attend to in-group norms and preferentially cooperate with human characteristic that is positively associated with in-group
in-group members. However, surprisingly little of this data is bias [18,19]; it thus offers a potential explanation for some
uniquely supportive of this view, especially when contrasted forms of cooperative behaviour directed at in-group members.
with potentially simpler and more general accounts of in- We thus now turn to the question of how these two accounts of
group affiliation, which we collectively refer to as the Mere the broad tendency to orient towards in-groups differ in what
Preferences Hypothesis. they predict with regard to cooperative norm enforcement.
This contrasting perspective has its origin in social psycho- The question that occupies us here is whether there is in
logical theories seeking to account for the widespread presence fact a special relationship between groups and cooperative
of in-group preference. Their goal is generally to account for in- norms. The answer has direct relevance for theories about the
group preference by elucidating the psychological mechanisms evolution and development of cooperative norms as well
that give rise to it. In this sense, they operate on a more proxi- as norm enforcement more generally; an affirmative answer
mate level as compared to the norms-focused view’s appeal to would suggest that these two aspects of our psychology were
ultimate explanations, though they can be readily related to subject to the same selective pressures and should be expected
ultimate considerations, a point to which we return below. to co-occur within a normal range of human behaviour [22].
These views frequently begin by pointing out that social cat- The difficulty of reaching an answer, however, comes from
egories, unlike categories in other domains, have a special the fact that most evidence marshalled in favour of the view
relationship with the self by virtue of naming an in-group or is equally consistent with the mere preferences view outlined
an out-group. This special relationship implies a special in the preceding paragraph. For example, being more generous
relevance: the groups I belong to are closely linked to me, towards a novel in-group member could represent the first,
aspects of who I am and where I reside in the social order. Psy- norm-compliant move in a repeated cooperative interaction