Figure 1. Helping and aggression in the cooperatively breeding cichlid Neolamprologus pulcher. Subordinate helpers show brood care by cleaning the eggs of
breeders (a), by performing nest maintenance such as digging out sand (6), and by defending the territory against predators, such as Lepidiolamprologus elongatus (c).
Presumably, these helping behaviours are mediated by aggression from the breeder. In (d), a breeder (right) shows aggression towards a subordinate, and
the subordinate responds with submissive behaviour (tail quiver). Panels (e—g) summarize results from experimental manipulations reported in previous studies.
Bars show the mean of the standardized frequency of behaviour. Standardization was done by subtracting the mean from each data point and dividing by the
standard deviation. Error bars are given by the standard error of the standardized frequency of behaviours. (e) Unrelated helpers (purple) provide more help than
related ones (green; [22]). (f) After subordinates have been prevented from giving help (dark blue), they compensate by increasing their previous help and sub-
mission level (light blue), presumably in an attempt to appease the breeder [19,25]. (g) Aggression levels in the group are normally very low (cream), but they
increase considerably when subordinates are experimentally prevented from helping (red; [25]).

behaviour among animals focus on either one or the other explicitly from the life histories of individuals, inspired by
explanatory concept, but the two mechanisms are not a well-studied biological system that is very suitable to ana-
mutually exclusive and, in fact, often act simultaneously lyse how kin selection and responsive strategies interact
[12,13]. Moreover, the coexistence and collaboration of both when generating cooperation. To complement our simu-
related and unrelated individuals within breeding groups is lations for this particular model system, we also develop a
widespread in social animals [13,14]. general mathematical argument to illustrate the formal
In the theoretical literature, there is a lack of consensus logic behind our main results.
about the consequences of the simultaneous action of We first present an individual-based simulation model
relatedness and responsive strategies for the evolution of that is inspired by the cooperatively breeding cichlid
cooperation. Marshall & Rowe [15] suggested that related- Neolamprologus pulcher, where dominants and subordinates
ness prevents the evolution of reciprocal cooperation negotiate their levels of aggression and help [19]. This
because relatedness weakens selection for effective retalia- system is particularly well suited to understand the inter-
tion against defectors. By contrast, Van Veelen et al. [16] action of kin selection and responsive strategies [19-23].
found that relatedness increases the prevalence of reciprocal Neolamprologus pulcher live in social groups in which related
cooperation, and explained this by the fact that assortment and unrelated individuals interact repeatedly with one