
cheating, we suggest several alternative explanations for the Another complication is that helpers that appear to be | 4 |

evolution of the apparently punitive behaviours many ani- lazy in one context may participate in other activities or at
mals exhibit in their social groups. In many cases, these other times [46]. Context-dependent division of labour a
behaviours have probably evolved in the absence of cheaters should not be confounded with ‘laziness’, since division of s
and are selectively favoured in contexts unrelated to cheating. labour can increase efficiency and benefit all parties [47]. a
Furthermore, in many animals, harassment or aggression Baglione et al. [40] found that 27% of subordinate carrion = 2-
towards uncooperative individuals likely predates the evol- crows were lazy helpers, failing entirely to provision nest- 5
ution of cooperation and represents the ancestral state. In lings. When dominant individuals were experimentally =
other words, in many systems, ‘punishment’ is probably removed, however, lazy helpers voluntarily began visiting =
not derived from cheating, but is the background against the nest and provided enough food to fully compensate for “
which cooperation first evolved [27,34]. the loss of a breeder, indicating that they may in fact rep- ‘©
resent a sort of ‘insurance’ workforce. Removal experiments = -s
suggest that the same may be true for lazy workers in euso- =
+ . . cial insect colonies, who—unlike vertebrates—generally =
2. Empirical evidence for cheati ng and cannot increase their own future reproductive fitness by with- -
pu nishment in cooperative animal societies holding care since many are functionally or completely sterile,
[48-50]. ‘Lazy’ workers in eusocial insect colonies therefore *
(a) Withholding alloparental care pose an interesting comparison to cooperatively breeding w
Complex cooperative societies often include ‘helpers’, non- vertebrates, since inactive individuals appear to be wide- =
breeding subordinates that help to raise the offspring of spread, generally cannot increase their own fitness by &
dominant breeders. Helpers are often closely related to the withholding help, and are well tolerated by dominants [51]. 3
brood that they help to raise, so indirect fitness benefits In vertebrates, a different interpretation for this ‘tolerance S
may prevent selection for cheating. In some societies, how- of laziness’ is that helpers deceive dominant group members