bership without helping to rear the group’s young, what even placed it into the bill of a nestling, but then removed
prevents them from withholding alloparental care? Do help- the item and consumed the food themselves. Helpers were
ers ever fail to help, and if so, can dominant individuals most likely to false-feed when they were alone at the nest
punish or coerce them into cooperating? (ie. when other group members could not witness the
Many studies have found that helpers vary in the amount deception), and dominant breeders sometimes aggressively
of help they provide, often substantially [39,40]. However, chased helpers that arrived without food. In every other
‘lazy’ helpers are not necessarily increasing their fitness by study of this behaviour, however, results have indicated
avoiding the costs of alloparental care. Instead, individuals that false-feeding is unlikely to have evolved to deceive
that do little alloparental care may be in low condition and dominants. Instead, it appears to reflect a simple trade-off
unable to invest much in helping, often resulting in low fit- between the hunger of the helper and the needs of the nest-
ness. Most available evidence suggests that lazy helpers do lings: helpers that perform false-feeding are more likely to be
not enjoy enhanced fitness compared with cooperative young, inexperienced or in poor condition; and they are
members of a group. In fact, one reason that helping is evo- generally insensitive to the presence or absence of other
lutionarily stable may be that the levels of care that helpers group members [17,52-54]. In most of these societies,
provide are typically dependent on body condition, lowering though not in choughs, helpers are related to the brood
the long-term costs of helping [41]. In meerkats, for example, that they feed, so it is unlikely that false-feeding behaviours
levels of alloparental care by subordinate females are posi- would be selectively favoured if they actually reduced
tively correlated with body mass and rate of weight gain, nestling growth or survival.
so lazy helpers are apparently in poorer condition than But why is cheating so rare in cooperative societies where
hard-working ones [42]. Food supplementation experiments helpers are unrelated to the group’s offspring [55-57]? One
suggest that the same is true in cooperatively breeding hypothesis proposes that cheaters are rare because the threat
moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) [43] and carrion crows of punishment is ubiquitous—essentially, that cheating and
(Corvus corone) [44]. punishment have co-evolved to the point that neither is
Even when withholding alloparental care might be adap- observed in natural populations, though both lurk under
tive for the helper, it may not reduce the brood’s fitness: the the surface [30,58]. Empirical support for the ubiquity of