these rules need not be cognitively demanding [105,106]. calls upon finding food, a response that may have evolved a
Although empirical evidence for reciprocal cooperation in in order to alert group members to share food. Hauser & = 2-
natural, non-captive settings still lags behind theory, recent Marler [115] experimentally provided free-ranging macaques S
studies on alloparental care have convincingly interpreted with food and observed the responses of discoverers and =
helping behaviour by non-relatives as a type of commodity fellow group members. They found that macaques that =
trading—essentially, that helpers ‘pay to stay’ in the social failed to call when they found food were more likely to be ‘2
group by providing cooperative services [57,59]. attacked than were those that did call, a result widely inter- ©
One of the best examples of direct reciprocity in a natural preted as punishment for defecting [116]. However, these —
setting is food sharing by common vampire bats (Desmodus results are also consistent with manipulation or coercion: =
rotundus), in which reciprocal exchanges of blood meals clo- attacks were usually directed at lower ranking females, and =
sely resemble the repeated dyadic encounters originally males that discovered food were rarely attacked even -
envisioned by Trivers [11]. Vampire bats feed exclusively though they typically did not call [115]. Nor is it clear that 2
on blood, and bats that return to the communal roost without aggressive punishment was costly to enforce—in fact, ‘pun- S
having fed are in danger of starvation unless another bat ishers’ often chased the discoverers away and consumed w
regurgitates blood to them. Although the interpretation of the food themselves, suggesting that the primary benefit to =~
this behaviour as reciprocal altruism [107] has been criticized punishing was immediate access to food rather than ensuring ©
on the grounds that bats also feed kin [8], a recent study that the discoverer would cooperate in the future. (It is not 3
found that reciprocity was a stronger predictor of blood even obvious that ‘defectors’ stayed silent in order to conceal = S
donations than genetic relatedness: individuals preferentially the food from other group members and increase their own
donated blood to those that had previously donated to them, consumption, since individuals were more likely to call
and the proportion of partnerships that formed between when they were hungry than when they were satiated.)
unrelated individuals did not differ significantly from that Given the lack of empirical evidence for costly punishment,
predicted by random assortment [10]. In order for vampire it seems unlikely to play an important role in enforcing
bats to preferentially repay those that have helped them, reciprocity in non-human societies.
