that focus on simpler forms of social behaviour, including non-human primates, and that neural plasticity in specifically
social attention, which mediates the initial acquisition and social brain areas actively responds to the demands of the
prioritization of information about the identity, status social environment.
and attentive states of others, and social motivation, which Probing beyond structural variation, Sallet et al. [8] also
drives individuals to interact with others. The fundamental examined spontaneous coactivation among these regions
importance of these basic social functions for individuals to using functional MRI (fMRI). Measures of coactivation are
survive and thrive is made plain in human disorders, such thought to reflect coupling and potential interaction of infor-
as autism, schizophrenia and social anxiety, in which these mation flow between regions. Coactivation between STS and
mechanisms are disrupted. rPFC increased with social network size, whereas coactiva-

In order to make adaptive decisions about how to tion between IT and rPFC increased with social rank. These
respond to others, animals must be motivated to attend to findings show not only that structural changes occur in
social stimuli. In fact, both humans and non-human primates these regions to meet the demands of the social environment,
find social stimuli intrinsically rewarding, and some social but also that these structural changes are associated with
stimuli are more interesting and valuable than others. Cap- changes in function.
tive male rhesus macaques, for example, will give up juice Although variation in the structure and intrinsic connec-
rewards in order to view the faces of dominant males or tivity of these and other brain areas provide a substrate for
female hindquarters, but have to be paid extra juice to view social information processing, these findings tell us little
images of the faces of females and subordinate males about the underlying neural code for social information.
[55,56]. Subsequent work has shown that female rhesus Early studies in the 1970s identified neurons in the temporal
macaques value the same classes of social information, par- lobe of macaques that responded specifically to faces [65,66],

ticularly male signals related to testosterone [57]. These and subsequent brain imaging studies showed that portions

