specifically within the breeding season. However, no signifi- manipulation in this brain region. This pattern suggests that
cant effects of sex or season were detected in intact animals CBP might influence female-biased functions controlled by
on either this measure or on the number of AR-expressing the AMY, but is not consistent with a role in mediating seasonal
cells in the POA, AMY or VMH [87]. The number of nuclei differences in responsiveness to T in these areas associated with
positive for AR protein also does not vary across season in reproductive function [90].
gonadally intact animals in either copulatory or dewlap To date, our investigations into steroid-related molecular
muscles [86]. However, qPCR on the RPM indicates an mechanisms (receptors and co-activators) have not provided
increase in AR mRNA in the intact males from the breeding many satisfying explanations for differences in morphology
compared with non-breeding season [84]. When greater and behaviour related to sex or breeding season. Other av-
differences in circulating T are created by castrating males enues should be pursued, and the search is easier now that
and providing either a T-filled or empty implant, T increases the green anole genome has been sequenced [91]. However,
the percentage of AR-positive nuclei in the copulatory genomic information for this species lags behind data avail-
muscles of males from both the breeding and non-breeding able for rodents and songbirds. In fact, prior to fluorescent
seasons, but does not affect this measure in the dewlap (cer- in situ hybridization experiments conducted in conjunction
atohyoid) muscle [86]. This pattern of effects of T on AR with the genome sequencing, it had even been difficult to
protein suggests that upregulation of the receptors may be identify sex chromosomes in a variety of anole species. Sex
important for enhancing muscle morphology. However, the chromosomes in green anoles and a number of other species
fact that T has a greater effect on increasing RPM fibre size within this genus appear homomorphic, although karyo-
in the breeding than non-breeding season (see above) without typing indicates that other species appear to have varying
a differential effect on increasing AR expression, suggests that numbers of X chromosomes in addition to a Y [92,93].
other mechanisms must be responsible for this seasonal Now, it is clear that two copies of an X chromosome are pres-
change in responsiveness to T in this tissue. In sum, because ent in female green anoles and one copy is present in males

these neural and muscular structures involved in green anole [91]; the Y has yet to be conclusively identified. Early work
