in testosterone level reaches significance by day 5. The exact
time at which Leydig cell regulation switches from being inde-

3. The role of gonadotropin-releasing pendent to dependent upon circulating gonadotropins is not
hormone neurons in driving the neonatal clear from this work, but indicates that it is proximate to
birth. Moreover, the data show a decline in mRNA levels for
testosterone surge important steroidogenic enzymes, particularly P450scc and
Studies in several species, including primates, indicate that P45017, prior to or on the day of birth, which supports the
the GnRH neurons begin to control pituitary gonadotropin hypothesis that around the time of birth, Leydig cell activity
secretion from mid- to late-embryogenesis [47,48]. As such, it and steroid production are dependent on gonadotropins.
is not surprising that GnRH neurons control the postnatal Avery recent study has demonstrated that GnRH neurons
testosterone surge in primates. Experiments in monkeys are activated in male but not female mice shortly after birth
using a GnRH receptor antagonist to block endogenous [54]. We exploited the fact that GnRH neurons only express
GnRH-dependent gonadotropin secretion clearly demonstrate cFos after periods of intense activation, such as during the
that the neonatal testosterone surge is dependent on GnRH preovulatory LH surge in females [55], to examine whether
signalling. In non-human primates, the neonatal elevation in the GnRH neurons are active around the time of the neonatal
plasma testosterone levels persists for approximately three testosterone surge in mice. Using wild-type mice collected 2—
months. Peripheral administration of the GnRH _ receptor 3h after birth (at the time of the neonatal testosterone surge),
antagonist, Antide, on days 0, 3, 7, and then weekly from we found a male-specific activation of the preoptic area
birth to 98 days of age in male marmoset monkeys completely GnRH neurons. Approximately 13% of GnRH neurons were
abolished the neonatal rise in testosterone [10]. Furthermore, in activated in males in the hour following the neonatal testos-
humans, male babies with defective or absent GnRH secretion terone surge, whereas virtually none of the GnRH neurons

fail to exhibit the postnatal testosterone rise [47]. were active in female littermates [54]. These results differ
