male sexual maturity scales with body mass across the pri- lineages undergo several further divisions in preparation for
mates, and variation within extant primates suggests a gametogenesis: approximately 15 more divisions in females
strong correlation (R? = 0.84) with tgen (figure 2). Assess- and 20-24 in males [28,29]. Thus, in total, there are about
ments of sexual maturity can vary and may not coincide 30-40 mitotic divisions from fertilization to puberty, at
with the onset of spermatogenesis in every case [27]. Never- which point in males the population of gonial stem cells
theless, if we incorporate a linear scaling of fpup With tgen, we (GSCs) is established in the testes, and the primary oocytes
recover much of the generation time effect, in the sense that have been formed in females. From then on, the male and
an increase in ty, from 15 to 30 years now corresponds to a female gametogenetic processes differ markedly, with GSCs
reduction in mw by a factor of 1.5 (figure 1). replicating continuously in adult males to maintain the germ

cell lineages and support gamete production.

Given this structure, the fact that de novo sequencing esti-
mates are based on sequencing somatic rather than germ cells
creates a potential for error. For example, in comparing

3. Hidden germline mutations in trio sequencing parents and offspring, mutations arising early in the somatic

An alternative explanation for the discrepancy in rates may lie cellular genealogy of the offspring may be counted as de
in how de novo sequencing experiments relate to the cellular novo germline mutations (false-positive errors), and early
genealogy of the germline, and the definition of germline mutations in either parent on lineages having both somatic
mutation rate as the mean number of mutations acquired on and germline descendants may not be recognized as de
a germline lineage from zygote to zygote. Mutations on novo (false negatives).

somatic lineages are important in the context of diseases such Some of these cases may be excluded or recovered by careful