ride the serial birth—death prior. By contrast, the white noise figure S8). In addition, as in the case of the pure white noise
clock appears to be more labile. As a result, it can more easily clock, the posterior median ages under the mixed clock
yield to this informative prior on divergence times, by are similar to the prior median ages (d = 6.1 between prior and
adapting its estimation of branch-specific rates accordingly. posterior median ages, versus d= 6.4 under the white noise
Taken together, these observations show that, in the con- clock and d= 13.1 under the Brownian clock; figure 3). The
text of the present tip-dating analysis, the estimation of size of the credible intervals under the mixed clock (15.6) is inter-
divergence times is strongly sensitive to the specific relaxed mediate between those obtained under the Brownian clock (15.2)
clock model used for conducting the inference. They also and those returned by the white noise clock (16.7).
show that, in the absolute, the Brownian relaxed clock is A possible interpretation of these observations would be as
less flexible and thus more informative than the white noise follows. Like the pure Brownian clock, the mixed clock is able
clock. However, the globally unreasonable ages obtained to detect the long-range autocorrelation signal. However,
under the Brownian clock suggest that this rate prior may unlike the Brownian clock, it does not strongly rely on those
in fact be too rigid, thus leading to biased estimation of long-range effects to inform divergence time estimation.
divergence times. Instead, the mixed clock essentially opts out whenever the

underlying informative prior on divergence times contra-
dicts its long-range tendencies, in which case its white

(e) Mixed clock analyses using the tip-dating approach noise component acts as a buffer. As a result, and like what
If the mixed clock is used in the context of the tip-dating analy- happens under the pure white noise clock, the estimation
sis, the white noise component accounts for 46% of the of divergence times is more strongly driven by the serial

variation in the substitution rate across branches. This estimate birth-death prior.

