Our results suggest that there is, indeed, a tendency for TED thus, it is certainly not possible to get whichever divergence ‘=
to produce unrealistically old divergence time estimates time estimates you like by these types of prior modifications. s
under certain conditions, the effect we term DRA. It appears Of the informative priors we explored for the placental = -5
that DRA is caused by the combination of vague priors with data, presumably the assumption of rapid net diversification =
various types of model inadequacies. Specifically, it seems up to the last sampled speciation event is the one that comes =
that the strong conflict between morphological and molecular closest to a reasonable prior model assumption. However, we -
signals is one of the primary drivers of DRA in the data of do not argue that any of the informative priors we used here 2
O'Leary et al. The conflict appears to be caused to a large is necessarily a reasonable model prior for the placental data; S
extent by a failure to account for the evolutionary dependen- the penalizing effect on ghost lineages is the important factor, w
cies among morphological characters, resulting in positively which can be used as an ad hoc fix for DRA when the primary =~
misleading signal due to functional convergence when interest is divergence time estimation. 3
morphology is analysed alone. Even though most of the topo- Clearly, the informative priors are partly compensating 3
logical artefacts are corrected when the morphological data for the fact that we are not accounting for all of the relevant = &
are combined with molecular data, there is a large amount background information in the rest of the model. Consider,
of unlikely convergent evolution in morphology to explain for instance, that the strongest evidence we have for an exclu-
in the combined-data tree. This results in a push towards sively or largely Palaeogene radiation of placentals is the
older dates, giving more evolutionary time for unlikely observation that we have found so many placental fossils in
events to occur. If this interpretation is correct, then we the Palaeogene but none in the Cretaceous (at least not defini-
would expect DRA to be more severe the larger the morpho- tive crown placentals). The ratio of the number of fossils
logical dataset, with massive phenomic datasets like the one found before and after the critical time period is one of the
analysed here representing the worst case as they are likely to critical factors determining the odds against a placental
include large numbers of correlated characters. origin in the Cretaceous. In the analysis, we discuss in this
It is obvious from our results that a failure to account for paper, the magnitude of this factor is estimated from the dis-
diversified sampling of extant taxa can also cause severe DRA tribution in time of a sample of some 30 fossils, a miniscule
in the dating of higher-level phylogenies. This is consistent subset of the placental species actually present in the fossil