reproduction over evolutionary time by looking at modern
societies, but see the electronic supplementary material for
reasons to be skeptical of the relevance of such evolutionary lag.


An alternative adaptationist interpretation of the patrilocal- long to start having children when they could increase their | 10 |

ity effect is that women act in their own self-interest by reproductive success by starting younger.
reproducing more in patrilocal than matrilocal contexts. This is An additional source of sexual conflict may arise from a
because they benefit less from helping other household mem- spousal age differences in polygynous societies because they s
bers reproduce when they are living among less related increase the likelihood that a husband dies before the end of a
people than when they are living with more related individuals his wife’s reproductive lifespan. As shown in our first model, — 2
matrilocally [68]. On the other hand the fact that the stated fer- this means an older husband may devalue a woman’s future 5
tility preferences of daughters-in-law are lower than those of reproduction if he is unlikely to father her children in the =
mothers-in-law in at least one such patrilocal context [69] distant future. This prediction can be tested by checking =
casts doubt on higher fertility outcomes necessarily reflecting whether women married to older husbands reproduce ‘2
a woman’s true preferences. In such monogamous patrilocal sooner upon marriage than women with younger spouses, ©
contexts where women have explicitly lower fertility prefer- and have different IBIs. Furthermore, this effect should be = -5
ences than in-laws, currencies other than fitness (e.g. health, particularly strong in societies with high adult male mortality. =
pleasure, economic status) may be motivating the discrepancies S
F a
in preferences between unrelated household members. (d) Institutions affecting female autonomy and fertility: =
Our models suggest that much closer attention needs to be wH
paid to both the context in which men and women are making patriarchal norms 8
fertility decisions, and individual differences between men and A few researchers have suggested that evolved female strategies we