the notion that contraception breaks the link between human will play in the future of fertility. We briefly summarized a few
fertility and the processes of evolution. Although norms and findings above, showing that fertility is both correlated with fit- a
preferences are clearly an essential part of fertility decision- ness and that fitness-related traits are linked to specific alleles s
making in humans (we consider that view non-controversial), that should go up in frequency as those individuals have a
both age at first birth and total number of births are genetically more children. Several additional studies have shown that = 2-
heritable [27,31,32], which by definition means they are partly natural selection is acting on humans in ways that favour S
under genetic control. Twin studies show heritability (often increased fertility [31,39]. These studies are based on a range =
over 0.2) for number of children ever born for males and of approaches, from twin studies, to genome surveys, to studies =
females and for age at first birth in females. Even in low-fertility of the relationship between fertility and fitness. Fertility-related ‘
settings a significant portion of the variation in fertility traits is phenotypes can respond to natural selection in human popu- ‘©
due to non-shared environmental factors [27,33]. Moreover, lations according to the expectations of quantitative genetics = 5
genome-wide association studies have shown that there are [40]. Further, as mortality and fertility decline during the =
in fact detectable genetic variants (single nucleotide poly- demographic transition, there is an increase in the opportunity =
morphisms) that underlie fertility-relevant traits including for selection to act on fertility because fertility becomes a -
age at menarche and menopause [27]. greater contributor to variation in relative fitness [41]. Thus, 2
Regardless of the degree of genetic influence, even all else being equal, and in spite of the generality of fertility S
decisions that are strongly influenced by socially transmitted decline that accompanies modernization during the industrial w
norms are useful to study from an evolutionary point of view age, it is likely that there is a constant process of natural selec- = =~
[29,34]. The mind, culture and consciousness are also products tion favouring higher fertility genotypes. Note also that recent ©
of evolution. If preference for low fertility becomes common, it work on eco-evolutionary dynamics shows that rates of change = S
is still important to know how those preferences evolved and in life history need not take many generations [42]; thus geneti-.
how changing social and economic circumstances caused pref- cally influenced adjustments to vital rates could plausibly
erences to shift to maximizing currencies other than fitness, occur within the time horizons of population projections.
such as wealth, status, or education. However, it should also In contemporary evolutionary theory, it is widely recog-
be noted that most of the potential currencies that substitute nized that several mechanisms of inheritance affect observed