solution 1 mM NaCl. (Online version in colour.)

nanoparticles in the literature is usually around the value obtained in the present work [15,16],
although values as high as pH(iep) 8 have also been reported [17].

The zeta potential of the homoionized sepiolite particles (SP, figure 1) is negative in the
entire pH interval studied. This is usual in other similar compounds such as silica, bentonite
and homoionized montmorillonite [15,18,19]. Nevertheless, in sepiolite clays it seems that the
interfacial potential is strongly dependent on the origin and treatment of the clay particles.
For natural sepiolite (without any physical or chemical treatment), the particles have an
isoelectric point at pH~6 [20,21], although the substitution of the exchange divalent cations
by monovalent ones provokes that the positive branch of the zeta potential, at pH < pH(iep),
disappears [21]. In fact, when natural palygorskite clays, which have a structure and chemical
composition practically identical to sepiolite [14], are treated with solutions of alkaline ions
or, alternatively, dispersed in acid solution to remove impurities, such as carbonates, the zeta
potentials reported have negative values at acid and also at basic pH [13,22,23]. Therefore, when
the impurities are removed or the exchange multivalent cations are replaced by monovalent ones,
the electrochemistry of the solid/liquid interface of the sepiolite particles is mainly dominated by
the reactions with the silanol (Si-O-H) groups, as occurs for silica particles.

The negative surface charge of the SP particles favours the adsorption of the Fe(III) and Fe
(II) ions, and the subsequent formation of magnetite particles when OH™ ions are added. In this
reaction, the pores in the SP particles act as seeds for the growth of magnetite nanoparticles.
The zeta potential of the resulting particles (SM, figure 1) is clearly the result of such coverage.
A similar behaviour was reported for magnetite-covered attapulgite [13] (attapulgite and