of 1Hz of frequency and amplitude 0.001 during the 24h of the gelling process. From these
measurements, we obtained the values of the viscoelastic moduli as a function of time. From the
very beginning of the gelling process, the storage modulus (G’) was higher than the loss modulus
(G’) for both magnetic hydrogels and non-magnetic hydrogels (data of G’’ not shown here), which
is an indication of the quick start of the gelation as soon as GDL was added.

The presence of magnetic particles was also evident from the very beginning of gelation,
discerned by larger values of G’ (much larger in the case of microparticles) in magnetic hydrogels
than in non-magnetic hydrogels (figure 1a). This difference was without doubt due to the
magnetic field-induced particle chaining. It should be noted, nevertheless, that particle migration
in response to an applied magnetic field is a fast process that usually takes only a fraction of a
second and, thus, differences in growth of G’ with time after the first few minutes of gelation
must be mainly due to differences in peptide-peptide and particle-peptide interactions. In fact,
once aggregates of peptide-coated particles were built, it was expected that they acted as nuclei
of condensation increasing cross-linking between peptide fibrils. Note that in a previous work
[28], we showed for fibrin polymer hydrogels that properly functionalized particles acted as
nuclei of condensation for the cross-linking of the polymers. The moment of switching off the
applied magnetic field (3600s) was clearly detected by the sharp drop in G’ in the case of
the magnetic hydrogel containing Fe NPs@PEG@Fmoc-FF. In the case of the magnetic hydrogel
containing FeuPs@PEG@Fmoc-FF, instead of a sharp drop followed by a smooth enhancement
of G’, a progressive decrement of G’ with time for several hours was observed (see inserted
plot in figure 1a). Our hypothesis is that columnar structures built by microparticles were too
heavy to be held by the peptide structure, which provoked a progressive, partial collapse. In fact,

