or after measurement. Even when we do not want to know the momentum or energy of a given
quantum object and thus need not worry about the uncertainty relations, neither the exact position
of this object itself nor the actual time at which this ‘position’ is established is ever available. The

uncertainty relations remain valid, as do other laws, such as conservation laws. It became clear : =
very early on that conservation laws could be maintained in QM in the absence of realism or : =
causality [7,19]. In Bohr’s ultimate view, however, or in the present, strong RWR, view, these 13
laws can only rigorously apply to the corresponding (classical) variables of suitably prepared : =
measuring instruments, impacted by quantum objects. In the case of the uncertainty relations, :R
we can either prepare our instruments so as to measure a change of momentum of certain : o
parts of those instruments or so as to locate the spot that registers an impact by a quantum 3
object, but never do both in the same experiment. The uncertainty relations are correlative :3
to the complementary nature of these arrangements. In fact, the use of conservation laws in : Ss
quantum physics is connected to the uncertainty relations because the complementary nature “sO

of ‘the space-time description and the laws of the conservation of energy and momentum’ [10,
v1, p. 94]. Could one still speak of the momentum or energy conservation in considering the
interaction of particles, say, as in the case of the Compton effect? Yes, of course! However, in the
RWR view, all concepts and laws involved can only apply to the effects observed in measuring
instruments. All one can say is that there exists something in nature that, in interactions with
our technology, compels us to introduce our concepts and laws in terms of effects this something
has on this technology, insofar as the corresponding measurements always obey these laws. The
permanent characteristics associated with quantum objects, such as mass, charge or spin, could
also be defined by such effects. The difference from variable elements is the permanence of the
corresponding effects in all experiments, while the effects corresponding to the values of variable