§ also verified it, as may be seen in our cooling curves. But Professor RoozEBoom
& suggests that the true eutectic angle for all alloys from 7 to D’ is at C’, and that the
‘© apparent depression of X is a retardation due to the difficulty experienced by the «
8 in erystallising without a nucleus of its own kind. Thus in the region XD,D’ the
Palloys are a complex of 8 (or y) and 8, while below XD, they form a complex of
op a and 6.
‘~The curves /C’XD’ record the equilibrium between the solids « and 6 and the solid
6 solution out of which they crystallise, and the method of examining chilled ingots has
S:enabled us to follow the whole process in a very satisfactory manner. The « must be
‘ itself a solid solution, but we are strongly disposed to think that § is the compound
z Cu,Sn. The alloy Sn 20, although the cooling curve indicates that it undergoes a
= well-marked exothermic transformation at the D’ temperature, remains substantially
> uniform after the transformation. The fact that it has recrystallised is, however,
# shown in the ingots chilled below D’, by minute traces of the C’ eutectic visible
q between the large crystals of § that almost entirely fill the ingot. It may be that
& the chemical compound Cu,Sn does not exist above the temperature D’.
2  (5.) The DE alloys, containing from 20 to 25 atomic per cents. of tin, that is from
& 31°8 to 38°4 per cent. by weight. When chilled between the liquidus and the solidus,
E these alloys are found to contain primary combs of y. On the solidus, these combs
A fill the alloy, and just below it they form a uniform solid solution, but it is very
difficult in this region to prevent, by chilling, a commencement of the transformation
proper to the D’E’ curve. However, our chilled ingots afford a considerable amount
of evidence that the condition of the alloys at temperatures between de and D’E’ is
that of a uniform solid solution. When the temperature falls below the curve D’E’,
long, straight, very uniform bars separate out of the solid-solution. These are richer