fluids and solids [16,48-50]. In contrast to the existing first-order hyperbolic approaches which
rely on the kinetic theory of gases or parabolic theories which rely on the phenomenological
Navier-Stokes—Fourier constitutive laws, our theory is not restricted by applications to only fluids
but can be applied simultaneously to both relativistic liquids and solids (e.g. the star interior, the
outer crust of the neutron stars [51]).

2. Formulation of reversible equations

In this section, we give a variational formulation of the reversible part of the time evolution
for relativistic viscous and elastoplastic heat-conducting media. As it will be clear from what
follows, our formulation involves two manifolds, the matter manifold and space-time manifold.
It is therefore not obvious on which manifold of the two one has to formulate the variational
principle. In fact, the Euler-Lagrange equations are the same regardless whether the variations
are performed on matter or space-time manifold. However, the Euler-Lagrange equations are
not the only equations we need in our theory. We also need the so-called integrability conditions
(2.7)2 and (2.25)2, which form the evolution equations for the principal fields of the theory,
which are the distortion field and the thermal impulse. It appears that these equations cannot be
rigorously derived if one works on the space-time manifold (Eulerian frame) but they can only
be obtained in an ad hoc manner. On the other hand, the formulation of the variational principle
on the matter manifold (Lagrangian frame) allows us to obtain all equations in a rigorous
mathematical way. Therefore, in what follows, we formulate the variational principle in the matter
manifold (Lagrangian frame) and then transform the Euler-Lagrange equations and integrability
conditions to the Eulerian frame associated with the space-time manifold. In particular, we show
that the matter energy-momentum tensor obtained in such a way is equivalent to the GR matter
energy-momentum obtained in the standard way, i.e. by varying the action with respect to the