for the period 1998-2010 [59] and confirmed by in situ data showing a decrease in seasonal nitrate
consumption by phytoplankton [84] and a decline in daily PP rates in late summer and fall [79].
These negative trends can be partly attributed to enhanced vertical stratification in the NOW
[84] and a northward shift of the high productivity zone toward Kane Basin [85], where local
phytoplankton growth presumably reduces horizontal nutrient supply into Smith Sound. Such
recent changes in the phenology and magnitude of PP lead us to suggest that a greater match
between pelagic food production and the benthic filter feeders is now occurring.

Despite uncertainties about horizontal ocean currents from the surface to the bottom and the
vertical sinking velocity profiles of phytoplankton cells, it can be presumed that a horizontal
shift in the food source could change its location of arrival at the bottom. As an example,
Johnsen et al. [86] revealed that an under-ice bloom observed in May 2010 at Northwest Svalbard
originated in fact from the advection of an open water bloom that occurred at the south of
the ice edge. Furthermore, reductions in the horizontal and vertical supplies of nutrients to
the upper euphotic zone in the NOW are conducive to an increase in the relative contribution
of subsurface phytoplankton communities to annual PP. These communities, which have been
known to be present and active in the NOW, exploit elevated nutrient concentrations at the
base of the euphotic zone and are generally dominated by shade-adapted diatoms of the genus
Chaetoceros, particularly C. gelidus (formerly socialis) [87,88]. This scenario is consistent with an
upward numerical shift of Chaetoceros spores between 1968-1993 and 1994-2012 in one sediment
core from Smith Sound (collected in 2015 at 692-m depth, ca 66 miles north of station 111; A.L.
Limoges, personal communication, 2020). A global review of the seasonally persistent diatoms
that compose shade flora in subsurface layers has shown that they are typically exported later in

