
As for stability domains obtained with the LSA, two configurations of relaxation parameters
will be investigated hereafter, namely, SRT (w, = @3 = 4) and REG (w3 = w4 = 1). The stability
criterion is based on the normalized kinetic energy averaged over the whole simulation domain
(u?) /u3, that is supposed to monotonically decrease over time for this testcase. Hence, for a given
kinematic viscosity v and Mach number Ma, if it becomes larger than one (before a certain number
M of characteristic time fc) then the simulation is very likely to be unstable in the next few time
iterations. Hence the stability criterion reads (u2)/ ua <1 for t< Mf, with M a parameter to be
defined, and L being the number of points used to discretize the L x L simulation domain.
Before comparing the stability domains obtained for all collision models of interest, the impact
of the parameter M has been investigated. Results obtained for the most sensitive collision model
(which was identified as the BGK operator) are plotted for different mesh sizes in figure 8. At first
glance, the fact that the stability of LBMs depends on the number of iterations (required to run the
simulation) might be surprising. Nonetheless, one must remember that in the context of LSA, even
if a wave is proven to lead to a linear instability, it will take some time before it emerges from the
uniform background of the flow. Especially, if its growth rate is extremely low, let us say Im(w) =
10-5, then its amplitude would be increased by a factor exp[Im(w)] 1 + 10-5 at each iteration.
Consequently, it would require several tens or hundreds of thousands of iterations before it leads
to the blow-up of the simulation. In any case, it seems safe to assume that M = 50 is sufficient to
accurately evaluate the numerical stability domains of LBMs. In addition, the stability domains
obtained with the D2Q9-BGK clearly show a dependence on the grid mesh. This translates to
the fact that the grid mesh acts as a space filter which will automatically prevent the growth of
(spurious) waves with a particular space frequency. In other words, even if the LSA shows that
a particular type of LBM should encounter stability issues due to the growth of spurious waves
for a given set of parameters (Ma, v, etc.), they might not emerge during the simulation because