of misorientation gradient of the austenite phase before and after martensitic transformation. It


is evident that there is heterogeneous distribution of misorientation gradient across the initial
retained austenite grains. Similar to the previous case of C23 alloy, the absence of martensitic
transformation in smaller recrystallized grains with least misorientation gradient is noted in the
Css alloy also. The observation is in contrast to the generally observed phenomenon that smaller
austenite grains generally promote nucleation of martensite laths due to more grain boundary
area, which acts as nucleation site [25]. On the other hand, several researchers have also shown a
decrease in martensite start temperature (M,) with a reduction in austenite grain size [26]. Further,
comparison of the orientation and the GOS maps clearly indicates that martensitic transformation
has occurred in the grains with higher misorientation gradient. It is believed that residual stress
present within a grain plays a key role here. It is corroborated by the fact that the tensile and
compressive nature of stress assists the martensitic formation by increasing the Ms in steel [27,28].
GOS maps also demonstrate misorientation accumulation in the austenite phase around the
martensites, because of shape change and increase in volume due to martensite transformation.

Frequencies of martensite /austenite and martensite/martensite boundaries in figure 9e show
that misorientation cluster angles for austenite /martensite interfaces of C55 alloy present a broad
spectrum (28°-47°) compared to that of C23 alloy (42°-47°). On the other hand, misorientation
angles between martensites variants are concentrated between 10°-20° and 50°-60°. Similar
observations are also reported by Back & Engberg [29]. Further, the frequencies of misorientation
angle for austenite/martensites boundaries are more in the C55 alloy compared to the C33 alloy
in LN2-cooled condition, because of the higher percentage of austenite in the C55 alloy. There is
a distinct difference between the frequency distribution of interfaces of martensite variants in the