It is difficult to account for the experiment cn September 21st, when the mica had
been heated. Boury attributes the residual charge almost entirely to the action of
_ the edges, which are varnished, and we are inclined to agree with this, but we do not
fee how the polarisation can be galvanic in the ordinary sense, for in our case it must
have amounted to more than 10 volts. We think it is due to a creeping of the
‘gharge (see RowLanp and Nicott, ‘ Phil. Mag,’ [5], vol. 2, p. 414, 1881). The sulphur
{is really phenomenal. We are inclined to attribute most of the small effects observed
$0 the residual sources of uncertainty, contact action, imperfect shielding, imperfect
Gnsulation, imperfect prevention of the creeping of the charge, in spite of these
“pffects having been eliminated apparently before the sulphur condenser was inserted.
Because these uncertainties are suggested, it must not be thought that they were
-@verlooked at the time. We believe that everything was done that could be done,
gind that we are, in fact, at about the limit of the applicability of these methods.
‘2 However, taking the numbers as they stand, they are sufficiently remarkable, and
“Show that the residual charge, if it exists, is less than, say, four parts in ten thousand
ef the original charge, even when the duration of charge amounts to ten minutes.
‘2In our previous experiments using the film between the old gilded plates, we made
-guse of enormously greater voltages derived from an electrophorus, but some uncertainty
arose from the possible parting of the plates, and from the burning of the film where
athe spark had jumped across. However, we never detected any residual effect at all
with the film in question, under circumstances where the residual charge from
Sthe mica amounted to more than 50 divisions ; this was with a voltage estimated from
“the spark length at about 5000 volts.
2 The electric strength of sulphur from the broken film is in the neighbourhood of and
5 robably greater than 730 volts per ‘22 millim., or at the rate of about 3300 volts per