migrate faster than small moons. Simulations [38] suggest that Proteus, the outermost and largest
of the inner moons (a= 117 647 km, diameter approx. 420km), may have migrated outward by
approximately 10 000 km since it formed. This places Proteus’s point of origin quite close to where
tiny Hippocamp (a = 105 284 km, diameter approx. 35 km) is now. Showalter et al. [37] suggest that


Figure 5. The Neptune system. The background image, derived from Voyager images 11446.21 and 11448.10, is a high-phase [4
view of Neptune's rings. The five identified ring features are labelled. Overlaid are lines showing the orbits of Neptune's seven 1S
inner moons. The ellipsoidal shapes of the moons are all accurate, but are expanded by a factor of 10 relative to the orbits. :3

Hippocamp might actually be a fragment of Proteus, which was broken off by a cometary impact
early in the history of the system. Hippocamp migrates very slowly, so Proteus would have left it
behind as it migrated to its current location. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that Proteus
has one especially large crater, called Pharos, which likely ejected approximately 50 times the
volume of Hippocamp itself [39].

The history of orbital migration has been recorded in the orbital elements of some of the inner
moons. With seven moons each migrating at their own individual rates, moons must have passed
through many orbital resonances with one another [35,38]. These resonant passages can excite
eccentricities and inclinations, which persist after each resonance is broken. This is probably the
origin of the unusually large 4.7° inclination of Neptune’s innermost moon, Naiad. That large
inclination, in turn, has permitted the formation of an unusual, fourth-order vertical resonance
with the adjacent moon, Thalassa [40]. This configuration stabilizes the two orbits by ensuring
that the two moons are never anywhere near as close as one would expect given that the orbits are
separated by only Aa=1847 km. Instead, each time Naiad laps Thalassa, the resonance ensures