jgnd relative intensity and breadth from those of a similar solution of turacin (compare
figs. 6 and 7). The resemblance of this new derivative of turacin to hematoporphyrin
‘# strongly accentuated by the further observation, that the acid filtrate from the
recipitate above described possesses a spectrum which Dr. MacMunn says has “a most
a resemblance to that of acid hematoporphyrin.” It has a purple rather
han a crimson hue ; and, though its spectrum has four bands (shown in fig. B), they
‘differ in position and in relative intensity from those of the alkaline solution just
Mescribed, and from those of an alkaline solution of turacin. Their wave-lengths are—
Ast band, 601 to 587; 2nd band, 579 to 569; 3rd band, 562 to 535; 4th band, 523
to 499 ; the 2nd band is faint, the 4th a slight shading only. This acid solution,
évhen very nearly neutralised with ammonia, becomes colourless, depositing a floccu-
nt precipitate, which proves to be identical with that previously separated on pouring
Phe oil of vitriol solution into cold water. It is, in fact, soluble in some dilute acids,
ut not in pure water nor in solutions of neutral salts.
© From the analyses which will be presently given, it seemed likely that the atomic
ratio of metal to nitrogen in turacin might prove to be 1: 4, as in hematin; and it was,
indeed, the resemblance between these two pigments which induced me to try and
ascertain whether turacin would yield, by solution in oil of vitriol, a coloured metal-
free derivative similar to that which hematin produces under the same circumstances.
My expectation has, it will be seen, been partially realised; but the new coloured
derivative of turacin still retains much copper. Its solubility in dilute sulphuric acid
and the spectra of its alkaline and acid solutions afford, however, strong corroborative
evidence in favour of the view that the new derivative of turacin is nearly related to
heematoporphyrin, and that turacin itself, though nearly related to hematin, has a
somewhat more complex constitution.