eferred to I had shown cause why that time was not to be measured by Dr. Croxt’s
eckoning of 80,000 years, as not being supported by the facts of geology. The
position and character of the Rubble-drift show that the transition from the
so-called Post-glacial beds to the recent Alluvial deposits is very abrupt, and that
there is an absence of sedimentation or of anything indicative of lapse of time
etween those two series. This conclusion is confirmed by the sections of the Belgian
caves. There, as we have seen (ante, pp. 927, 928), the Quaternary cave deposits are
separated by only a few feet of Rubble-drift from deposits of the stone or Neolithic
ge. Nowhere are there any intervening sedimentary beds, or any deposits requiring
Hength of time for their accumulation—the only subsequent work requiring time being
comprised in the alluvial accumulation of our great rivers.
Besides, on Crouu’s hypothesis, Man must have remained comparatively stationary
during a vastly long period. But how does this accord with the facts. Take
the earliest works of Man with which we are acquainted—the rude implements
of the Chalk plateau—and note the difference between them and the implements of
the later Valley gravels. The former consist of rude flints picked up on the surface,
and given only such an amount of trimming as to bring an angle to a point, or to
form a cutting edge out of a blunt natural fracture, or else the stones, just as they
were found, were used as hammers and trimmers. The valley implements, on the
other hand, comprise flint tools and implements carefully worked all over and trimmed
to certain definite patterns, the workmanship, apart from the want of grinding, being
i some cases so fine as almost to equal that of the implements of the Stone age.
The caves of Central France and of Belgium afford still clearer evidence of the
Progress made by early Man in the interval between these two stages. His work in
he last Quaternary stage exhibits an intelligence higher than that of many modern