conditions (6.2) (rescaled by replacing aR by (1 — r)aR so that the flux through the outer boundary
remains constant in the approximating procedure) converge as r > 1 to solutions of

“ =dA, pK +f(K) + aR(1—K), (6.3)
which is a 2D equation on the unit sphere with Ag denoting the Laplace—Beltrami operator. The
intriguing part of this result is that, in agreement with biological intuitions, the left-hand part of
the boundary condition (6.2) ‘jumps’ into the limit master equation (comp. (6.1) to (6.3).

There are three obstacles one encounters in proving this theorem within the theory of
semigroups of operators: (a) nonlinearity in the boundary condition, (b) nonlinearity in the
equation, and (c) explaining in what sense (solutions to) equations in shells should converge
to (solutions to) an equation on the unit sphere. Problem (a) is taken care of by switching to
equations for inactive kinases K° = 1 — K. As to (b), the fact that f(0)>0 and f(1) <0 allows
reducing the problem to the case where f is globally Lipschitz, and then the main result of [25]
says that convergence of solutions of semi-linear equations can be deduced from convergence
of semigroups. As to (c), the idea, accomplished by a family of isomorphism, is to look at the
thinner and thinner shells through a finer and finer magnifying glass. From this perspective,
all the semigroups of interest act in a single space of continuous functions on a shell of unit
thickness, and describe diffusion processes with faster and faster radial component. As a result,
because of averaging properties of diffusion, solutions to the studied equations become less and
less dependent on the radius and in the limit become identical to functions on the sphere. (In
other words, Xo of (4.1) is the subspace of functions on the unit shell that do not depend on
the radius, and we have an example of relation (5.1)) Moreover, the Robin boundary conditions
describe disappearance of diffusing inactive kinases at the cell’s membrane (i.e. activation of these
kinases); in the limit, this becomes a description of kinases’ activation at a point of the unit sphere,