materials (figure 2) that are generic active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and were selected
on the basis of a variation in their molecular chemical groups [40]. A range of structural Cr values
were obtained which did not appear to correlate with traditional or simple measures of sample
stability, such as the melting point. As a result, a total of 19 different molecular descriptors that
may have influenced Cp were used as input parameters for a Principal Component Analysis
(PCA) which identified those which were statistically significant. The molecular descriptors
which gave a positive correlation to Cp were related to the presence of aromatic and conjugated
carbons suggesting that delocalization of electrons allows the energy deposited from the electron
beam to be shared and dissipated more effectively, so decreasing the formation of damaging
radicals [41-44]. The molecular descriptors that exhibited a negative correlation to Cp were
related to the number of rotatable bonds (which relates to the number of different structural
configurations the molecules can undertake) and, more surprisingly, factors that related to the
numbers of hydrogen bond donors and acceptors. The latter can be rationalized by the fact that
when hydrogen bonding is present, the adjacent covalent bond is weakened making it more
susceptible to radiolytic damage. An alternative explanation might be that, during radiolysis,
the chemical groups involved in the hydrogen bond may readily form radicals (e.g. OH-) that
can propagate and cause further damage. Potentially, the presence of hydrogen bonding may also
encourage the incorporation of ambient water during handling/processing.

Using the parameters identified as being significant, a multiple-linear regression (MLR) model
was generated to allow prediction of critical fluence for structural degradation of a molecular
crystal based on the structure of the constituent molecule. The experimentally observed critical
fluence versus the predicted value based on the model is shown in figure 2; further details are
discussed in [31].
