detection of the waves in the photosphere that have periods of 5 min or less, but the 135s vector
magnetic field data from HMI has a Nyquist frequency of 3.7 mHz so it can be used for wave
research, but we discuss such data options further in §2.

Recently, Alfvén waves heating chromospheric plasma in a sunspot umbra through the
formation of shock fronts was reported [37]. In this work, the highly inclined (70-80 degrees)
magnetic field geometry in the outer boundary of the umbra, alongside the tangential velocity
signatures, distinguished the waves as distinct from umbral flashes. Observed local temperature
enhancements of 5% in the chromosphere were reported and thought to be evidence of dissipation
of mode-converted Alfvén waves driven by upwardly propagating magneto-acoustic oscillations.
Alfvén shocks are predicted to form in regions with high negative Alfvén speed gradients [38]. In
this case of the nearly horizontal outer umbral fields, the volume expansion of the magnetic fields
and the fact that the density does not drop off steeply means a negative gradient in the Alfvén
speed can exist. The study by [37] motivated us to search for oscillatory signatures in highly
inclined magnetic field geometries, even though our choice of feature being a polarity inversion
line is a very different environment that of the outer umbral field, we have an opportunity to
characterize the transverse velocity oscillations.

The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, we explore the oscillations observed with HMI.
Since HMI observes the full solar disc for all of the magnetic activity present in Solar Cycle 24,
and perhaps that of Solar Cycle 25, then any successful measurement of wave power as well as
differentiation of photospheric wave modes from the use of HMI data will support other research
conducted with higher spatial and temporal resolution instruments hosted by DKIST, SST and
other instruments around the world. Specifically, within this paper, we analyse the signals and
oscillations within the active region NOAA 11158 on 16 February 2011 when the region was