properties as a function of optical depth (and atmospheric height if radiative transfer processes
are well constrained) by taking measurements at specific percentage line depths [2].

The challenge of the solar chromosphere is that non-local thermodynamic equilibrium (non-
LTE) plays an important role in the propagation of photons through the relatively dense and
tenuous atmosphere [3]. Furthermore, due to spatial resolution limitations of even the largest-
aperture ground-based solar telescopes, and the intrinsic fine-scale structuring of the solar
atmosphere (scales smaller than 100-150 km), often the observed spectrum within the resolution
element is the superposition of several components owing to different plasma states (e.g.
both quiescent and magnetized atmospheric components). The effects of a multi-component
atmosphere are generally taken into account in state-of-the-art spectropolarimetric inversion
codes (e.g. NICOLE; [3]). However, these techniques are extremely demanding computationally.
In addition to the effects of spatial resolution, multi-components can arise from the fact that
chromospheric spectral lines sample a wide range of heights; from the mid-photosphere (wings of
the line), through to the upper chromosphere (core of the line), thus mixing very different physical
regimes [4].

Additional spectroscopic components that are superimposed on top of the quiescent
background spectral profile can arise from a wealth of solar phenomena, including dynamic
events such as magnetic reconnection, propagating waveforms, and shock development, all of
which have the ability to form across a range of atmospheric heights. This adds a secondary
component to an otherwise quiescent atmosphere [5], which is often highly Doppler-shifted
relative to the approximately stationary line core, creating a significantly broadened resultant
spectral profile. Being able to segregate the multi-component atmospheric contributions from
a spectral line would allow the simultaneous examination of both ‘dynamic’ and ‘quiescent’