of 2%, and OSEM+G, with a difference of 18%. The accuracy also shows a similar trend, the : =
HKEM and KEM provide respectively a 16% and 14% higher probability of classifying a patient : =
with the correct label relative to OSEM+G. It can be seen that the value of the AUC is similar 1B
among the algorithms and is always close to 1. Delong’s test, used to compare whether each : =
pair of AUC are different, provided a p-value higher than 0.06, meaning that although the 8
algorithms behave differently for each threshold, their performances are in agreement globally : 4
(at the 95% CL). 1

The final test was the study of the correlation between the diameter of the aneurysm and the : Ss
increase of uptake between the aneurysm and the normal aorta. Previous studies have reported : Ss
non-significant correlation at the 95% CL [4,6] using OSEM+G, and this work is in agreement with 13

these findings as reported in figure 7. In fact, the correlation is not significant for OSEM+G and
KEM at the 95% CL. For HKEM, in contrast, the two variables are significantly correlated with a
p-value of 0.045. The correlation is nevertheless moderate with a coefficient of 0.28. In addition,
it is worth noting that the OSEM+G p-value is just at the limit and the correlation would be
significant at the 90% CL. These results show the existence of a weak relationship between
aneurysm size and uptake increase, but it is not enough to use the measurement of the aneurysm
size as the only biomarker because small aneurysm may still have micro-calcification which is
detectable using PET. The reader can notice that there are outliers in figure 6, although these
CT and PET images did not show particular differences to those of other patients, to check
robustness, the analysis was repeated excluding the outliers and the results were unchanged.
Figure 8 and table 4 are useful to cross-validate the study. It can be seen that the ROI value
is a significant parameter for each algorithm, with p-value <0.04, and that the HKEM achieves
the highest accuracy and the smallest residual deviance. Based on the estimated probability as a