
intense, which has been found consistently across studies using different CPMs and for different
regions [2,32]. This deficiency is due to convection not being fully resolved at kilometre-scales,
with updrafts being too deep and too wide with insufficient mixing [65-68]. Some groups have
used a parametrization of shallow convection to try and improve the representation of small
showers, only switching off the parametrization of deep convection. However, this is only valid
if the parametrization has been developed to operate at kilometre grid-scales. More generally,
scale-aware convection schemes that correctly handover between resolved updrafts and sub-
grid convective plumes may help to address this issue (see below), although we note that in
some cases running without a convection scheme can perform better than using scale aware
schemes [69,70]. The challenge for climate change studies is to understand to what extent the
inherent deficiency of CPMs to overestimate heavy rainfall intensity impacts on the reliability
of future changes. Does the fact that heavy rainfall tends to be too intense in the present day
make the model likely to overestimate or underestimate future changes? The likelihood is that
model updrafts will be too strong in future storms as they are in present-day storms, but changes
may still be reasonably captured. Looking at how extreme rainfall values increase with the rarity
of event (i.e. return period) provides some support for this. Studies over the UK [14,36] have
shown that although CPMs overestimate extremes, they are able to capture the observed rate at
which extremes increase with return period (the ‘growth curve’). This gives us confidence that
the underlying processes that control the growth of extremes with more favourable underlying
conditions are well captured, at least in the present climate, with the hope that this may translate
into the future warmer climate. Further evidence for this argument is provided by Prein et al. [68],
who show that 4km grid-spacing simulations of idealized mesoscale convective systems can
reliably capture future climate extreme precipitation increases compared to 250m grid-spacing
simulations.