low-resolution counterparts. The similarity in sub-daily precipitation errors across resolution
suggests that large-scale circulation errors are not affected much by resolution. It also suggests
that the locations and frequency of winter and summer extreme storms resulting from the
simulated large-scale circulation are also not greatly affected by resolution although that aspect of
the HighResMIP simulations has not yet been evaluated. While the magnitude of extreme storms
is substantially larger and hence more realistic at high resolution, the ‘native grid’ method of
defining an extreme precipitation standard accounts for this and little resolution dependence
can be robustly identified in per cent error magnitude when models are evaluated against that
standard. Further evidence that resolution has little effect on extreme precipitation beyond what
is expected by figures 1 and 2 is provided by the normalized error metrics of the Taylor diagrams
(figure 5). The distance between points representing models of different resolution from the same
modelling groups is small and both normalized RMSE and Taylor’s modified skill (table 1) exhibit
only minor improvements at high resolution. In fact, skill values of extreme 3h precipitation
accumulations over the CONUS region for the HighResMIP models are quite similar to global
land skill values for extreme daily precipitation accumulations for the CMIP5 and CMIP6 models
[23]. Indeed, as extreme daily precipitation errors are highly correlated to mean precipitation
errors [23], it is not surprising that sub-daily errors would be closely related to daily errors.

There is no systematic error pattern across all modelling groups, for all but one pair of models
with an ancestral relationship. The CNRM-CM6-1 models and EC-Earth3P models both descend
from versions of the ECMWF IFS atmospheric model and have very similar winter error patterns
although differ in the summer. The other models, except CAM5.1, are largely biased high in the
winter but mixed in the sign of summer errors. Averaged over the CONUS region, all models,
both low and high resolution are biased high in the winter (electronic supplementary material,
table S1).