observations) without substantial bias or systematic error when compared with observations.
For example, one can estimate from observations of the last 50 years, the average seasonal-mean
rainfall in different regions of the world. I may reasonably demand of the numerical analyst that
the systematic error in the simulation of such rainfall amounts is substantially smaller than the
model's seasonal-mean rainfall response to anticipated atmospheric CO? concentrations between
the late twenty-first century and the late twentieth century. That is to say, I may reasonably require
some suitable ‘bias-to-signal’ ratio to be a small dimensionless number, say 0.1.

For reasons discussed below, no existing set of algorithms comes close to being able to simulate
the statistical properties of the variables that determine our climate (rainfall, temperature, wind
and so on) to such a level of accuracy. For some of the contemporary climate models used in
the IPCC ARS report [1], this bias-to-signal ratio can exceed a factor of 10 for some variables
and regions [2]—a hundred times bigger than what we might desire. This reflects the fact that
simulating climate accurately is an exceptionally challenging problem. We are a long way from
passing the ‘Climate Turing Test’ [3] where we cannot easily tell whether we are looking at a
simulation of climate, rather than the real thing.

Hence, instead of seeking algorithms which solve the climate simulation problem to some
prescribed tolerance, we must instead ask: What algorithms can reduce systematic errors to the
smallest possible values and at the same time be not so expensive as to be unaffordable? The
notion of what is affordable raises the question of how much society values accurate forecasts
of climate and whether climate simulation and prediction is of such importance societally that
it should be funded at a similar level of ambition to something like the Large Hadron Collider
[4]. We do not answer such questions here, but nevertheless suggest that the development of
algorithms which run in a reasonable time (say a day of wall-clock time for a decade of simulated