aspect, without implying insight.


2. From patterns to physics: the von Neumann revolution

The development of dynamical meteorology as a science in the twentieth century has been told
by both practitioners (e.g. [11,12]) and historians (e.g. [13,14]). The pioneering papers of Vilhelm
Bjerknes (e.g. [15]) are often used as a signpost marking the beginning of dynamical meteorology,
and we choose to use Vilhelm Bjerknes to highlight a fundamental dialectic that has enlivened
the field since the beginning, and to this day, as we shall see below. Bjerknes pioneered the
use of partial differential equations (the first use of the ‘primitive equations’) to represent the
state of the circulation and its time evolution, but closed-form solutions were hard to come by.
Numerical methods were also immature, and basic facts about the computational stability of
the methods were yet unknown. The failed attempts by Richardson [16] involving thousands of
human ‘computers’ are also well documented. One could consider it the first attempt at parallel
processing, and at 64000 ‘cores’, it would be considered still quite cutting-edge today!. Bjerknes
attempted a ‘graphical calculus’ using drawing tools but they were imprecise at 2-3 decimal digits
of precision, as stated in [13, p. 87]. We note this as we shall return to the issue of numerical
precision later in §3. Finally, abandoning the equations-based approach (global data becoming
unavailable during war and its aftermath also played a role), Bjerknes reverted to making maps of
air masses and their boundaries [15]. Forecasting was often based on a vast library of paper maps
to find a map that resembled the present, and looking for the following sequence, what we would
today recognize as Lorenz’s analogue method [17]. Nebeker has commented on the irony that
Bjerknes, who laid the foundations of theoretical meteorology, was also the one who developed
practical forecasting tools ‘that were neither algorithmic nor based on the laws of physics’ [14].