conditions, see the original publication. Location 3 on figure 2 (GPS location 26° 23’ 7.09” S, 131° 42’ 37.91’’ E). (Online version
in colour.)


direction of thrusting, showing the effects of a continuous gradient in temperature and fluid
availability toward initially shallower levels. This exceptional record provides tight constraints
on the seismic structure of the continental crust and on the mechanisms of generation of lower
crustal earthquakes. The disappearance of pseudotachylyte toward the north in the footwall
of the Woodroffe Thrust can be used as an argument against the origin of pseudotachylyte at
the middle to lower crustal levels by downward propagation of aftershock swarms following
major earthquakes in the seismogenically active upper crust [54]. Seismic attenuation during
such downward migration should result in a decreasing abundance of pseudotachylyte from
structurally higher to lower levels, that is from north to south in our profile, but in fact, the
opposite is true and pseudotachylyte abundance is significantly greater in the dry (southern)
than in the wet (northern) mylonites of the footwall. The footwall Mulga Park Subdomain was, as
a result of the thrust geometry, originally at a higher crustal level than the Fregon Subdomain
in the hanging wall. However, the Mulga Park Subdomain largely flowed during Petermann
deformation, developing mylonitic shear zones and broad folds but very little pseudotachylyte.
By contrast, the Fregon Subdomain both fractured, with widespread development of multiple
generations of pseudotachylyte, and discontinuously flowed, with shear zones bounding large
intervening low-strain domains. Across the Woodroffe Thrust, we, therefore, have an inverted

section [93]: the Fregon subdomain must represent a seismogenic zone as it contains abundant : =
pseudotachylyte but it was tectono-stratigraphically below the ductile zone represented by DR
the Mulga Park Subdomain. Consequently, these pseudotachylytes cannot be produced by the are