Following this motivation, Ozer et al. examined the SR phenomenon in the Newman—Watts SWN : 8
and showed that at a certain degree of small-worldness provided by an optimal amount of new if
link addition, an adequate noise level can induce emergence of SR across the whole network. : S
This implies that local periodic driving, i.e. subthreshold signal applied to a single neuron in the : Ss
network, can be transmitted through the whole network in a maximal correlation with overall : Ss
electrical activity [60]. Furthermore, they determined the randomness parameter of SWN, the 1a

coupling strength and the driving frequency of the pacemaker as the main actors of signal
transmission, and found by measuring Q values of entire network activity that there is also an
optimal level for each parameter to obtain the best SR performance.

On the other hand, SR behaviour can sometimes rely on transmission dynamics, which may
be associated with some necessary biological facts. Yu et al. analysed population behaviour
with transmission delays, which are inevitable in communication between actual neurons, as
well as different control parameters such as noise intensity and rewiring probability [70]. They
investigated SR in Watts-Strogatz type SWN of electrically coupled Rulkov model neurons. It was
shown that, depending on its value, time delay in the transmission process can either increase or
decrease the SR performance by promoting or disrupting synchronization of neuron population,
respectively. They even demonstrated that properly adjusted time delays can induce multiple SR
peaks (figure 2). Later, authors extended this study to an SWN population coupled with hybrid
synapses where connections between neurons include both electrical and chemical synapses [71].
It was shown that hybrid coupling scheme and synaptic delays in network communication may
improve efficiency and performance of SR. More specifically, in the hybrid SWN population,
electrical synapses expand the optimal noise range for SR and increase the detectability of the
weak input signal while chemical synapses improve the performance of signal transmission as