
and the friction coefficient. The physical process that causes friction to depend on the normal
force, rather than on the area of contact, involves the deformation of asperities [5]. The true area
of contact between two solid bodies depends on the extent to which the normal stress deforms
the asperities, and in this way increases the real area of contact, which is generally only a small
fraction of the apparent area. Whether the dynamical stresses on faults can be parameterized in
the same way is unclear. As the depth increases, so does the temperature, causing the fault to creep
rather than to fail seismically. Clearly such a model cannot account for earthquakes at depths of
more than a few tens of kilometres, which require some other process to be involved. But there
is little obvious difference between shallow and deep earthquakes (e.g. [6]). Frictional models
of deep earthquakes therefore require the lithostatic stress to be balanced by fluid pressure, but
provide no method of estimating the magnitude of this pressure, or even determining whether a
fluid is in fact present.

A different approach to the problem of generating such earthquakes is to attribute them to
phase changes, which must occur within subducting slabs. But it is then difficult to explain how

some slabs, like that beneath Tonga, can be seismogenic throughout their entire depths, and why : =
the deep earthquakes should occur on faults that were originally generated by flexure at the : =
surface and then transported to depths of 100 km or more (e.g. [7]). The slip-on faults that generate :3
earthquakes involves displacements from less than 1 millimetre to 50 metres or more. The slip is : =
an expression of instability that releases elastic strain, but the origin of this instability is unclear. ZR
It has been recognized for nearly 100 years that such slip can cause the fault plane to melt if the : 4
displacement occurs sufficiently quickly and the displacement and shear stresses on the fault are : e
sufficiently large [8-10]. Such melting has occurred in many shear zones [11]. But melting requires :8