runs, whereas there are significant differences for the COSBOLD models. What can we learn from
the presence or the absence of these differences?

There are indications of higher phase speeds (vanishing phase differences) in the
‘chromosphere’ of all models. Might this lead to an explanation for the long-standing conundrum
of the vanishing phase differences measured between chromospheric lines?

Particularly striking are the phase ‘ridges’ in the v — z phase diagrams in the convection zones
of most models, in particular the Bifrost and MURaM models. We cannot offer a full explanation
for these yet. Maybe they are formed by a similar mechanism as the pseudo-modes observed in
the solar atmosphere. Clearly, these deserve further studies.

One of the shortcomings of the present study is the fact that the models from the various codes
were in many aspects quite different. Some had magnetic fields, some were pure hydrodynamical;
the fields of view, depths of the convection zone and vertical extent into the ‘chromospheres’,
spatial resolution, box size, duration, and diffusivities were all quite different. In a next step, to
better understand the significant differences between models of the various codes (cf. figures 6
and 15), we will attempt to repeat this study using the same (magneto-)hydrodynamic set-up,
same box size and resolution, same depth of the lower and upper boundaries, for both a low and
high diffusivity case with grey and non-grey radiative transfer. If we still see differences that are
larger than those we can attribute to different numerical diffusivities, we will have to dig deeper
and worry about the detailed implementations of the physics, or ask ourselves if this approach of
comparing wave propagation characteristics may have some issues as well. We will also conduct
some linear wave propagation experiments in order to separate the complexities of nonlinear
dynamics from the wave propagation part and the ability of the codes to propagate different wave