damage in exposed materials, the density of which is proportional to the GCR flux and exposure
duration [5,22,59]. Secondly, when GCRs interact with atomic nuclei in geological materials a
variety of cosmogenic nuclides (e.g. He, !°Be, 4Ne, °°Cl, Ar) are produced as a result of
spallation and neutron capture reactions (e.g. [60]). Typically, these interactions occur within
the uppermost metre or so of the exposed surface (e.g. [5,61]). Results of searches for GCR
variations based on meteorite samples have proved to be controversial and inconclusive (e.g.
[62,63]), in part because they only record an integrated GCR flux since becoming exposed to
the space environment. As Wieler et al. [62] note ‘because of the limited sensitivity of the time-
integrated GCR signals provided by meteorites, it is wise to consider ... also the differential
GCR flux signals provided by terrestrial sediment samples.’ Because terrestrial samples can
be dated independently of the cosmic ray flux, this is a potentially powerful approach, but is
limited by the relatively recent ages of terrestrial sedimentary samples, the complexity of Earth’s
geological and erosional history, and by the fact that the primary GCR flux is attenuated by the
Earth’s atmosphere and magnetic field. It is here that the lunar geological record may be able
to help.

Several cosmogenic nuclides have been measured in lunar samples (e.g. [22,29,33,64]), and in
principle the GCR flux could be inferred by measuring the density of cosmic ray tracks and/or
the concentrations of cosmogenic nuclides in exposed lunar materials. In practice, there are a
number of complications, especially the generally unknown exposure and shielding histories
(i.e. burial depths) of existing lunar samples. These uncertainties would be mitigated if the start
and end times of the exposure of a given lunar sample, together with its burial history, could
be determined independently. This will likely be key to reconstructing GCR records from which
the changing galactic environment of the Solar System might be inferred. As for the solar wind
history, the recovery of GCR records from buried palaeoregolith layers would be one possibility,