
Figure 3. Different pdfs in our toy model of characterizing uncertainty of ignition laser energy scale: (i) red distributions are : Ss
three hypothetical separate estimates of what energy is required for ignition in MJ, (ii) black is a naive multiplication of the a
probability distributions and (ii) Blue is the conservative estimate from BACCUS accounting for unknown unknowns. (Online [3
version in colour.) [8

conservative scientist should believe in the face of multiple independent probes of some physics.
Their model (‘BACCUS’) essentially assumes that each probe is receiving an unknown systematic
error sampled from a distribution with unknown parameters. It then uses Bayesian inference
to simultaneously estimate both the parameters of interest, as well as the ‘nuisance’ parameters
that describe the possible unknown systematics. Markov chain Monte Carlo is used to first draw
samples from the resulting posterior, and then marginalize over all the nuisance parameters, to
get a final conservative posterior for the parameters of interest, that accounts for the fact that there
are likely unknown systematics. In particular, this approach is able to give realistic long thick tail
probabilities, to account in a systematic way for the fact that there may be ‘unknown unknowns’.

We show in figure 3 a simple implementation of the methodology, in the context of
estimating how energetic a laser system must be to achieve ignition. Suppose (i) three different
independent estimates give E; =5.0+0.5MJ, Ez =5.5+0.2MJ and £3 = 8.0 + 0.2 MJ (arbitrary
numbers chosen to illustrate methodology) and (ii) one is agnostic as to which method is better.
What should a sceptical scientist believe is the true value, given that there are likely unknown
systematics? Figure 3 shows (i) the pdfs of the three estimates, (ii) an overall estimate naively
multiplying the pdfs together, and (iii) an estimate combining the pdfs using BACCUS. In
particular, although the energy of maximum likelihood is not dramatically changed, BACCUS
gives quite thick tails to high laser energies. We propose such a methodology might be useful for