the number count in most atmospheres (figure 1), the total particle number count is typically
used as a surrogate for the ultrafine particle concentration. Emissions inventories have been
constructed both in terms of mass and of number. The UK atmospheric emissions inventory
uses a simple method to calculate a mass-based inventory by taking an inventory of particles
in a larger size range such as PM25 and using an estimated percentage from each source sector
to estimate the PMo emissions. On the other hand, TNO in the Netherlands has generated an
inventory of ultrafine particle emissions within Europe based upon particle number [40]. Within
this inventory, the transport sector contributions about 75% of total particle number emissions
with international shipping and diesel road traffic making by far the major contributions. As a

result, a map of emissions serves to highlight the major shipping and road traffic routes within :2
Europe. Projections for future years from a 2005 baseline show major reductions for 2020, mainly : =
delivered by reductions in emissions from the transport sector [40]. This is due to the fact that : Ss
particle number emissions from combustion sources are highly sensitive to the sulfur content : =
of the fuel, and motor fuels have steadily reduced their sulfur content, now less than 10 parts : =
per million, and shipping fuels are progressively reducing sulfur but not yet to the same degree. 3S
A notable exception is emissions from jet aircraft for which fuels still contain several hundred Lo
parts per million of sulfur, and emissions from major airports are detectable in the atmosphere 18
in a number of major European cities at a considerable distance from the main point of emission :s
[41,42]. Ultrafine particles from road traffic comprise both a soot mode of primarily graphitic 1S

carbon with a lesser amount of associated organic matter, and a nucleation mode which is
primarily semi-volatile organic compounds condensed on the surface of a very small nucleus
of sulfuric acid or inorganic ash derived from engine emissions [5]. The nucleated component has
tended in the past to dominate particle number emissions, but the reduction in the sulfur content