than the influence of agricultural management (+46.2%) and change in land use (—26.8%) on C
sequestration. Similarly, a study of agricultural NPP found increases between 1980 and 2005 that
were predominantly due to changes in management practice (application of fertilizer) but that
these increases would have been greater in the absence of the combined effect of climate change
and O3 [97]. Since O3 stress often coincides with other common stresses impacting agriculture (i.e. :
heat stress, pests and diseases, aridity and nutrient stress), especially in locations such as China, :=
India and the USA, it is becoming ever more important that we improve our understanding of I=
the impact of these stress combinations on productivity [94]. :8

(b) Forests and grasslands =

The complex nature of forest systems with their multi-decadal life span, mix of species within a 18
forest stand, variable age structure and community dynamics, coupled with the fact that ERRs are :8
established for annual changes in whole tree biomass, mean that regional risk assessments using :3
ERRs alone have to date been limited to estimating potential relative risk. A comparison of the :
spatial extent of risk inferred from application of different metrics found that flux-based metrics
reduced both the spatial gradient and relative risk to forests across Europe when compared with
concentration-based AOT40 metrics for the year 2000 [86]. Emission reductions according to a
current legislation scenario dramatically reduced relative exceedances by 2020 although CLs for
forests were still exceeded across most of Europe. A similar study in China found that AOT40
exceeded the CL on average by about five times with higher risks in northern compared with
southern tropical and subtropical regions of China [98]. Feng et al. [88] assessed O3 damage
to annual forest tree biomass growth across China using an AOT40 metric ERR developed for
broadleaf deciduous forests from analysis of fumigation experiments on young European forest
trees [33]. The study estimated O3-induced reductions in growth of annual biomass of 11-13%