experiment justifies our beliefs about a target system, which is not directly manipulated in the
experiment.! Typically, the internal validity of a given experiment is necessary but not sufficient
for the external validity of that experiment.

What kinds of target systems can we gain knowledge about? And what factors place limits
on the strength of this knowledge? In particular, must target systems be, in principle, themselves
manipulable? Or should we insist that they are at least accessible, in the sense of being subject
to possible observation? In this paper, we will argue that the limits of experimental knowledge
should not be taken to be circumscribed by the manipulability or accessibility of target systems.
There is no, in principle, epistemic barrier to experiments with unmanipulable or inaccessible
target systems being externally valid. Experiments in contemporary science can and do allow
us to gain knowledge of unmanipulable and inaccessible target systems. We will argue that the
limits of experimental knowledge are in fact set by the mitigation of reasonable doubt—that is, the
application of inductive strategies for internally and externally valid source-target inferences.
When reasonable doubt has been partially mitigated, a theory can be said to be well supported,
and a scientist is justified to treat the empirical consequences of the theory as likely to be true, in
the relevant domain. When reasonable doubt has been almost entirely mitigated a theory can be
said to be established, and a scientist is justified to treat the empirical consequences of the theory as
true, in the relevant domain. To demarcate the limits of experimental knowledge, we will probe
the limits of what might be called an experiment. In particular, we will illustrate our arguments
by drawing upon examples from astrophysics and analogue gravity, in the latter case drawing
upon existing philosophical work on the epistemology of analogue black holes [1-3]. Using these
examples, we will illustrate three core claims.

Our first core claim is that whether a theory regarding certain phenomena can be well