Assume such a sceptic admits the application of enumerative induction. Then one can provide 8
dialectically convincing evidence by demonstrating instances of successful inter-type uniformity: if
that is, experimentally demonstrating some phenomena in one type of system, inferring that the : ES
phenomena exist in a second type of system, and then demonstrating the phenomena in the : S
second system. There is nothing special about inter-type inductive reasoning that bars inductive : S
triangulation of the usual form. Furthermore, as Crowther et al. themselves note, what counts a

as the same ‘type’ or ‘kind’ of system is to some extent context dependent. Thus, a lot of intra-
type reasoning in science might be reinterpreted as inter-type reasoning in a given context (we
would expect this to be particularly true in the life sciences, and also in molecular and materials
science). Moreover, there exist examples of scientists using Wilsonian type universality arguments
to justify inter-type reasoning of this form in a range of condensed matter contexts [106-109].
Thus inter-type inductive reasoning is in fact far more credible, and mundane, than it might at
first seem.

Let us then instead interpret the scepticism to be regarding the rule of inference from accessible
to inaccessible phenomena. That the ‘inaccessibility’ of the target system is at the heart of
Crowther et al.’s worry is indicated numerous times in the paper. In particular, inaccessibility
of the target system is referred to as both the ‘key difference’ between analogue and conventional
experiments (p 7) and, moreover, the reason why analogue experiments in general are taken by
Crowther et al. to not be potentially confirmatory (p 24). But here it is worth keeping in mind
our analysis of stellar nucleosynthesis above. Clearly, there are inaccessible target systems about
which we can formulate theories and models that can be well supported by combinations of
different lines of evidence. Inaccessibility of the target system is thus not the key difference
between analogue and conventional experiments since conventional experiments can and do