is unlikely to surface where it can be discovered. If it does surface, it will soon be destroyed by
weathering. A consequence is that we think only a fraction of a per cent of all the organisms
that have ever existed are known from the fossil record. The record, in turn, does not reveal the
continuity of change predicted by Darwin’s theory. Nevertheless, his prediction that the record
would eventually yield a better representation of the history of life, including fossils that reveal
transitions among major taxonomic subdivisions, has since been upheld hundreds of times over
(e.g. fossils that illuminate the transition from fish to amphibians [14], dinosaurs to birds [15],
synapsids to mammals [16] or terrestrial mammals to the Cetacea [17]).


A more fundamental limitation was Darwin’s repeated description of evolution as being too
slow to be visible in our lifetimes. If we cannot see evolution in action then we are hard pressed to
accept it as an explanation for the diversity of life. The invisibility barrier has in fact been breached
in diverse ways, including observations and experiments that demonstrate the act of evolution in
real time and quantify the rate of evolution [18,19] or the evolution of reproductive isolation, the
ultimate driver of speciation [20-23]. The other ‘proofs’ of evolution are as multifaceted as the
data cited to support the theory. The only missing ingredients for the general public are a broader
appreciation of these results and of what defines a scientific theory.

In summary, the tree and the table have persisted because they correctly accommodated a
diversity of information under a simple conceptual framework. Both predated the discovery of
phenomena that were critical to a complete understanding of why they were correct. Both were
challenged by some of these subsequent discoveries. The noble gases were not predicted and did
not seem to fit into the table. Mendel’s laws of inheritance were cited as evidence against natural
selection as the mechanism that caused evolution. In the end, both were strengthened as they