come about because production of fossil-fuel derived polymers, such as PE and PP, have been
optimized so much that their bulk costs are incredibly low. Consequently, any post-consumer
processing means that the recycled plastics cost more than virgin material. Unfortunately, many
consumers are not prepared to pay for the extra cost of recycled plastics over that of the virgin
material. Indeed, anecdotally, many people seem to think that simply because the plastic has been
recycled, it should be cheaper.

What is absolutely clear is that perceptions and attitudes need to change, and in some cases
change dramatically, before real progress can be made to achieve a circular plastics economy.
Plastics are not only wonderful materials, but they are also a valuable resource, and it seems
nonsensical not to exploit them as such. Clearly, if plastics are sent to a landfill, which large
amounts still are, these plastics are lost as a resource and they do not meet any of the criteria
for the circular economy. In fact, as discussed above, they may start in landfill sites and still cause
environmental damage. Landfill therefore shouldn’t even be an option for dealing with plastics,
they should at the very least be exploited for the chemical reservoir that they contain. If the


polymers can’t be recovered in any way, then they should act as a feedstock for generating other
useful chemicals via chemical recycling or in the last option as a fuel for energy recovery, in the
full understanding that without proper control this energy source will contribute to greenhouse
gases. In some cases, such as contaminated plastics for instance used in hospitals, incineration
is the only safe way to currently deal with the waste plastics; however, this should not stop
novel approaches to finding alternative methods to deal with these plastics. Indeed, successful
initiatives such as the PVC Recycling in Hospitals scheme initiated in Australia, which is now
also operating in New Zealand (with trials begun in other countries including UK), have found