production, their role in the biological carbon pump and CO2 sequestration and in other global
biogeochemical oceanic cycles. Their rapid sinking to the deep ocean is greatly facilitated
compared to other phytoplankton group due to their characteristic heavy silicate wall. However,
it does not simply follow from Stokes’ Law: diatoms have evolved sophisticated mechanisms
to efficiently modify their density as an active response to environmental cues. This is
physiologically achieved by means of bio-silicification, carbohydrate ballast or ion replacement
in the vacuole; all processes with a substantial metabolic cost.

Our preliminary experimental results further establish that diatoms’ buoyancy is not
only regulated by light or availability of nutrients but that it is also controlled by hydro-
mechanical stress. This strongly supports previous speculations that mechanically induced fast
intracellular responses, in the form of cytosolic Ca”+ spikes [26], are involved in downstream
mechanotransduction that translates into changes of cellular mass density. In fact, we have shown
significant changes (up to 50%) in the sinking speed of Thalassiosira pseudonanna cells after these
have been briefly exposed to shear level comparable to those naturally encountered in the sea.
Although these reveal that diatoms are indeed able to modify buoyancy in response to external
flows, further experiments are needed in order to fully elucidate this interplay and to eventually
provide theoretical grounding for the observed active responses. Furthermore, we recall that we
expect buoyancy control to become even more important for larger species of diatoms, such
as Coscinodiscus walesii, for which the volume of the vacuole is larger, and larger variations in
undisturbed sinking speeds have already been observed [33,34]. Most importantly, in their natural
fluid environment diatoms are under the continuous effect of fluid mechanical stresses. There
the interplay between active physiological responses and physical transport processes becomes
particularly relevant as it can dynamically modify cell behaviour, advected trajectories and,
ultimately, phytoplankton spatial distribution with its relevance for many ecological processes