same effect is produced as at first, and the solution may thus be made to go through its changes any number
of times’. By exposing the purple solution to air and providing that a small amount of reducing
solution had been added, the colour change was reversible and the spectral lines observed
reverted to those prior to reagent addition. He makes another key observation in that if the blood
was in a shallow vessel, the colour change when exposed to air was rapid, but if the sample was
ina tube, only blood in the top half of the tube reverted to the normal, red, colour whereas that in
the bottom part remained purple. Therefore, Stokes’ pioneering experiments showed for the first
time that changes in the colour of blood were rapidly and repeatedly reversible and that exposure
to air affects these changes.

There is a delightful section of the paper where Stokes makes his biological speculations.
Thus: ‘I have purposely abstained from physiological speculations until I should have finished the chemico-
optical part of the subject; but as the facts which have been adduced seem calculated to throw considerable
light on the function of cruorine in the animal economy, I may perhaps be permitted to make a few
remarks on this subject’. Stokes was unaware of Hoppe-Seyler’s 1864 paper [18] in which the word
haemoglobin had been used first to describe the colouring matter of blood. He had therefore used
his own term, ‘cruorine’, for this. The name derives from the Latin word ‘cruor’ for blood, and
Stokes acknowledges a Dr Sharpey for having suggested this term. He also noted that the word
Haematin was being used specifically for the pigment generated by blood decomposition.


Some discussions are included as to whether the colour changes seen in his experiments
in vitro correspond with those in vivo. He argues that many observations in the literature on the
colour of venous blood involved the use of post-mortem material and that some changes in colour
happen after death. He notes that Hoppe had proposed that the absorptive properties of blood