that the glory should be shared with an essentially unknown Cambridge mathematician. For Le 1B
Verrier personally, this was even more difficult to understand as he was already in communication : =
with Airy in June 1846. Airy started the correspondence on 26 June asking Le Verrier the same 8
question about Uranus’ radius vector that Adams had failed to answer. Le Verrier sent the answer : o
on 28 June confirming that the error in the radius vector was accounted for, explaining the details 1
of his theory, but also asked ‘If I could hope that you will have enough confidence in my work : §
to seek this planet in the sky, I would hasten, Sir, to send the exact position to you, as soon as I : g

25

have obtained it’ [48]. Airy did not ask Le Verrier for a better prediction as he was able to see that
Le Verrier’s prediction was within a few degrees from that of Adams. Le Verrier’s estimate of the
error on the predicted location at that time was 10 degrees, but the fact that two people reached
essentially the same conclusion independently, using somewhat different data and differing in the
approach (see [49,50] for details on the mathematical approaches), convinced Airy that the search
should start as soon as possible (see also [51] about the precision of Le Verrier’s final prediction).

The other part of the international scandal relates to the story of naming the planet. This is by
far the most illustrative and entertaining part of the story (see [52-54]), and Challis and Adams
can be blamed for inflaming it. Galle in his letter to Le Verrier announcing the discovery suggested
the new planet be called Janus, being so far out of the Solar System. Le Verrier rejected it by
saying that this would imply the planet was the last in the system, and wrote that the Bureau des
Longitudes had chosen the name Neptune (although this seems to actually be his own invention).
This exchange between Galle and Le Verrier was circulated in the newspapers and in Britain it
was transmitted by The Athenaeum on 10 October 1846. In spite of that Challis wrote in his article of