Adams’ prediction, he acted and Challis started a serious observational campaign. His approach
was perhaps not very enthusiastic, but it was professional. He might have taken a sky chart made
by Argelander for the Berlin Academy in 1832 (distributed in 1833) which covered the region
where Neptune was at the end of July (at the beginning of his search), and would most likely have
seen it within a night, as it happened in Berlin.> His approach was different, however, attempting
to chart the stars himself in the most rigorous way, but also continuing to work on other projects
that interested him more (i.e. comets). In the end, it is important to state that Adams was not
drawn into any of the discussions and accusations around him. He never said a word against
Challis, or Airy or Le Verrier.

(b) The lunar theory

The secular acceleration of the Moon’s mean motion refers to the fact that the Moon is gradually
going faster in its orbit around the Earth. This was first pointed out by Edmond Halley [61] based
on the comparison of the duration of ancient ellipses. The first numerical determination of the
effect amounting to about 10 arcsec per 100 years was given by Dunthorne [62] comparing the data
of the lunar eclipses of ancient Babylonians in eighth, fourth and second century BC, as recorded
by Ptolomey, and the observations of Ibn Junis at Cairo in the tenth century. Somewhat later
Tobias Mayer revised his initial value of 6.7 arcsec/century to 9 arcsec/century [63], and Lalande
provided a value of 9.886 arcsec/century [64]. The explanation of this effect was considered a
major open question for the Newtonian theory of gravity and it featured in a series of prize
questions established by academies.* The most satisfactory solution was found by Laplace in
1787, who showed that the observed effect can be explained by considering the variation in the
eccentricity of the Earth’s orbit due to the influence of other planets. As Earth’s orbit becomes
more circular, the mean distance of the Earth from the Sun increases, and the perturbative force