systems and is stimulated by weak magnetic fields. According to obtained results, the number
of chains formed in the material increases with decreasing field strength while vice versa the
diameter of the structures becomes larger with increasing field strength. There is a similarity
with a structuring observed in magnetorheological suspensions. Apart from the chain-like and
cylindrical dense structures, other kinds of particle aggregates can appear in non-concentrated
magnetic composites under influence of an externally applied magnetic field. These aggregates
can have various morphologies such as sheet-like, tube-shaped and canyon- or net-like structures
and are long-living [14,16,18]. In a recent study non-ergodic tube-like structures were under
investigation [18]. From a theoretical point of view, the thermodynamic equilibrium state of the
diluted and structured magnetic composite must correspond to whole cylinders without the
central cavity. However, non-equilibrium structures, which stably exist for a long time, have
been observed. A critical issue that has not been addressed in the above-mentioned studies, is
the fact the rheological properties of the carrier medium are changing during polymerization
together with a change in a composite’s microstructure. The process of polymerization of silicone
composites is initiated by the addition of a chemical catalyst and actually begins before the
magnetic field for structuring the powder particles has been applied. Thus, in this case, it is
inappropriate to speak about targeted and precisely controlled structuring of composites. As
was briefly noted in [14], the specimen, which required a much longer time for hardening, has a
different morphology comparing to the faster cross-linked one. In the current study, we analysed
the microstructure of rigid magnetic polymers of various compositions, which were structured
in an externally homogeneous magnetic field and then polymerized by ultraviolet radiation. This
approach allows the process of polymerization to be initiated at a given point in time, providing
a possibility of the targeted patterning of composites. Obtained structures are visualized using
microscopy and CT methods. The article is organized as follows. At first, the basic physical
principles of structuring particles in a viscous medium due to magnetic dipole interaction are