on equations of state for the intensive variables (temperature, pressure, chemical potentials)
conjugated to the classical variables (internal energy, volume, number of moles), and on the
fluctuations of the several intensive variables appearing in the entropy. Such information is
expected to be valid at least in non-equilibrium steady states, where they will contain additional
contributions of the non-vanishing fluxes, and are supposed to reduce to the classical results for
equilibrium states, when the fluxes tend to zero [6,10,27]. These aspects have been considerably
studied in EIT, but the number of studies from RET is scarce.

A non-equilibrium equation of state for the reciprocal of temperature is obtained from the
partial derivative of the generalized entropy (containing the fluxes as additional variables) with
respect to the internal energy. Such an equation of state leads to a temperature dependent on
the classical conserved variables and on the fluxes. The conceptual meaning of such temperature
has been discussed in detail in [8,9]. In fact, beyond local-equilibrium, the several definitions
of temperature proposed by extrapolating expressions analogous to equilibrium ones lead to
different values for the respective temperature when the system is in non-equilibrium steady
states [27]. This is logical because, the system being out of equilibrium, equipartition is no
longer obeyed and, therefore, different degrees of freedom may exhibit different values of their
effective temperature. Also, different thermometers, sensitive to different degrees of freedom,
will yield different values of temperature. Thus, in these situations, what is needed is to relate
the different temperatures for a system submitted to given values of the fluxes. In particular,
it raises the problem of how to measure the non-equilibrium ‘absolute’ temperature related to
the derivative of the entropy with respect to the internal energy. It may be seen that, at least in
ideal gases submitted to a heat flux, such absolute temperature coincides with the microscopic
kinetic temperature measured perpendicularly to the heat flux, which is different (lower) than
the microscopic kinetic temperature measured along the axis parallel to the heat flux [6,8]. Later