since 6* = —[(x*, XS) ae <0 due to the three properties that the upper dissipation potential
Eris required to satisfy, e.g. [24]. If in particular El (x,x*)= d(x", Ax*), then (3.2) turns into (3.1).
The vector field 7 in (3.2) (i.e. the right hand side of (3.2)) is thus a direct generalization of the
vector field J in (3.1). With an additional requirement that 21 is degenerate in the sense that the
energy E(f) and the number of moles N(f) are its dissipative Casimirs® then the time evolution
governed by (3.2) maximizes the entropy St(x) subjected to constraints E = E (x) and N=N*(x).

Summing up, with the gradient dynamics we are making only a small step towards
understanding the physical basis of the static reduction. We have learned that the upper entropy
plays the role of the potential generating the approach to the reduced pattern R. The upper
entropy is therefore a quantity that comes from the information collected about the way in which
the pattern R is emerging in the phase portrait P. The reducing Legendre transformation is then a
mathematical formulation of the fact that the upper thermodynamic potential #* plays the role of _
the Lyapunov function in the emergence of the pattern R. We still do not know, however, why the ia
reducing time evolution is governed by the gradient dynamics. For statistical origins of gradient D8
dynamics in the principle of large deviations, see [25,26]. :8

(b) Hamiltonian dynamics

In order to enter deeper into the physics of the reduction, we have to turn to mechanics. This
is because the time evolution that takes place on the most microscopic level (Mimicro) | 7 (micro) )
is governed by the classical mechanics. The mechanics is then expected to also provide the
physical basis for more macroscopic dynamical theories. In this paper, we do not consider
more microscopic theories in which quantum mechanics has to replace the classical mechanics.
From the mathematical point of view, we choose the Hamiltonian formulation of the classical