each separate subsystem within the coupling relationship. Hence, the use of coupling functions
amounts to revealing the mechanisms underlying the functionality of the interactions.

Close attention has recently been devoted to the study of coupling functions, treating their
different aspects, including theory, methods and applications. It is already a significant body
of work highlighting the universal meaning of coupling functions for interacting dynamical
systems, quite generally. In effect, a new scientific subfield dedicated to the study of coupling
functions has started to emerge, paving the way to specialized scientific gatherings on coupling
functions in the form of minisymposia, workshops and conferences, as well as to dedicated
reviews. Thus the topical issue has emerged naturally to unite and document these activities in
one place, thereby bringing out the universality of the coupling function as a theoretical construct.

The need for a theme issue is perhaps most strongly supported by the fact that the applications
of coupling functions span such a great diversity of very different scientific areas. Although
originally stemming from physics and mathematics, applications have now emerged in, for
example, chemistry, neuroscience, physiology, system microbiology, mechanics, climate science,
secure communications and the social sciences. The experts in these separate fields seldom
encounter each other or come across work on coupling functions by scientists in the other areas.
Nor are they exposed to the larger picture in which the general relevance and universality of
coupling functions becomes clear. Furthermore, the mutual support that could assist accelerated
progress is mostly absent, and there is obviously a danger of unintended rediscovery. One of our
aims is therefore to pull together and integrate existing knowledge about coupling functions from
the widely-scattered specialist research publications where it currently appears. The theory and
the methods will be covered by experts from physics and applied mathematics, and these will
then be applied to electrochemical, neural, cardiorespiratory, climate, electrical engineering and