are consistently treated as contextually labelled random variables. The use of contextual labelling
means that measurements made in different contexts are always represented by different random
variables, even if they measure the same property. As a result, the possibility of imposing a
joint distribution on all random variables in a system is not a restrictive requirement. In CbD,
therefore, one is interested in the existence of not just some but only specific joint distributions,
those satisfying certain requirements. To match the traditional understanding, derived from Fine’s
and Suppes & Zanotti’s work, the requirement should be that, in the joint distribution imposed on
the system, the variables measuring the same property in different contexts should always have
equal values (which is achievable only if the random variables in play satisfy the no-disturbance
constraint, as discussed below).

The second meaning of contextuality can be called counterfactual. It is formulated in terms
of whether an outcome of a factual measurement made in some context would have been
the same had it been made in another context. It seems that most contemporary researchers
take this counterfactual formulation as being equivalent to the joint-distributional meaning of
contextuality mentioned above (and to the ‘hidden-variable’ meaning, mentioned below). This
is apparent, e.g. in Liang et al.’s [17] comprehensive introduction to contextuality. However,
this view is not universally accepted. Thus, Griffiths [18] calls the counterfactual meaning of
contextuality Bell-contextuality, and argues that any system is Bell-noncontextual (see Griffiths’s
paper in the present issue, [19]). This means that, in Griffiths’s opinion, it is always true that had
one measured a factually measured property in another context, the result would have been the
same; and that this has nothing to do with the existence or non-existence of joint distributions in
the first meaning of contextuality.

The third way of defining (non)contextuality was historically the first. Contextuality (without