equal values (which is achievable only if the random variables in play satisfy the no-disturbance
constraint, as discussed below).

The second meaning of contextuality can be called counterfactual. It is formulated in terms
of whether an outcome of a factual measurement made in some context would have been
the same had it been made in another context. It seems that most contemporary researchers
take this counterfactual formulation as being equivalent to the joint-distributional meaning of
contextuality mentioned above (and to the ‘hidden-variable’ meaning, mentioned below). This
is apparent, e.g. in Liang et al.’s [17] comprehensive introduction to contextuality. However,
this view is not universally accepted. Thus, Griffiths [18] calls the counterfactual meaning of
contextuality Bell-contextuality, and argues that any system is Bell-noncontextual (see Griffiths’s
paper in the present issue, [19]). This means that, in Griffiths’s opinion, it is always true that had
one measured a factually measured property in another context, the result would have been the
same; and that this has nothing to do with the existence or non-existence of joint distributions in
the first meaning of contextuality.

The third way of defining (non)contextuality was historically the first. Contextuality (without
using this term) was introduced in quantum physics through the notion of hidden variables,
primarily by Bell [20,21] and Kochen & Specker [22]. In particular, Bell demonstrated that
one could meaningfully address, using only observable measurements, the question famously
discussed in Bohr’s [23] critique of Einstein et al. [24]. This question is whether all measurement
outcomes in a system of measurements can be presented as being determined by some ‘hidden’
random variable in a context-independent way, i.e. using context-independent mappings of
the values of this hidden variable into the values of the observed measurement outcomes.
The question has been historically formulated in terms of ‘realism’, the existence of hidden