number of practical and canonical problems, and will be the focus of this paper to demonstrate the
iterative method. The Sommerfeld diffraction problem of scattering by a half-plane presents the
prototypical scattering model. It is the classical example to introduce the Wiener-Hopf technique
[1], dealing with both an unbounded domain and the sharp material junction. The diffraction
of a wave by one finite plate (two junctions) has been extensively studied [34-36], but the case
of two plates is much harder. Scattering by more than two plates has been explicitly considered
using Wiener—Hopf but neglecting edge interactions in [37,38], analytically generalizing special
functions [39] and numerically in [33,40,41]. Another interesting rigorous approach is to reduce
the n-plate problem to the solution of a simple ordinary differential equation [42], here the
practical difficulty lies in finding some constant parameters of this ODE. A common theme
in many approaches is the successive treatment of diffraction events to yield Schwarzschild
diffraction series; our implementation may be interpreted as recovering a diffraction series
solution in the spectral domain (Fourier space). The fact that the proposed method is devised
in the spectral domain rather than in the physical space is key. This allows to take advantage of
the singularity structures of the kernel in the complex plane and hence perform hundreds rather
than one or two iterations, see §3c. Significantly, the proposed method applies to some Wiener-
Hopf problems arising in crack propagation or Lévi processes, which are not related to diffraction
and where a Schwarzschild diffraction series approach would not be a natural choice.

General numerical boundary-based methods, which avoid the need for Wiener-Hopf
factorization, can provide effective solutions to scattering problems from convex sets of objects,
though typically these require a linear growth in degrees of freedom with increasing wavenumber
[33]. This growth may be reduced to at worst logarithmic type by considering a hybrid numerical-
asymptotic (HNA) approach where the basis used is supplemented by appropriately chosen
oscillatory functions, as proposed in [40]; moreover, numerical experiments suggest wavenumber