inhibitory cells are non-oscillatory, with cells in a high voltage state. The analysis focuses on two : =
cell networks and considers the effect of time delay in the inhibition. They show how short time 1B
delays lead to anti-phase oscillations (the two neurons are half a period out of phase) while long : =
time delays lead to synchronized oscillations. They also show that a high voltage non-oscillatory 8
state can coexist with these oscillations. Motivated by oscillations in the hippocampus, the effect : o
of the synaptic depression and inhibitory time delay on synchronization and cluster formation in : x
a network of excitatory cells and inhibitory cells was studied in the case where both cell types [34] : =
or only the excitatory cells [44] are inherently oscillatory. :3

Here we consider a model for a global inhibitory network, where both the excitatory and
inhibitory cells are excitable. We include an explicit representation of delays in the model
equations, which allows for a systematic study of the role of delays in producing network-induced
oscillations. Motivated by the fact that many inhibitory networks in the brain have gap junctional
coupling, we assume the inhibitory cells are synchronized and represent them with a single cell.
Our work can be considered an extension of the previous work [9,51,52] to include the effect of
explicit time delays. Our work is complementary to that by Bose and co-workers [34,44] as we
consider networks where both cell types are non-oscillatory. Our work is similar in approach to
that in Kunec & Bose [45], with some important differences in both set-up and results. We focus
on two excitatory cells and one inhibitory cell and allow time delays in both the inhibitory and
excitatory synapses. We show that there is a critical value of the total delay (sum of the excitatory
and inhibitory delays). Below the critical value, the network does not oscillate. Above the critical
delay, the network oscillates, with the phase difference between the two populations determined
by the relative time delays in the synapses. This is in contrast to the previous results [45] where
there are always network oscillations and the size of the delay determines the phase difference
between the different cells.