f(z) =2(1 — z) is used in [54] to derive general properties of solutions of DDE (3.1). Since systems
described by DDE (3.1) can be easily realized in optoelectronic set-ups, they are used for fast
realizations of chaos communication [55-58] and reservoir computing [59,60]. In the past, much
attention has been paid to the singular limit of a large parameter T, which can be interpreted as the
limit of a large delay as one can easily verify by a linear time-scale transformation of DDE (3.1).
The so-called slowly oscillating periodic solutions, which are characterized by slow oscillations
within a period of the order of the delay, and the connected transition layer phenomena where
intensively investigated for constant delay [54,61,62] and for state-dependent delay [34]. For
constant delay, the multistability of these solutions was also investigated [63-65]. The analysis
in [39] goes beyond those periodic solutions and establishes a theory of the dynamics of a
slowly oscillating chaotic solution, which is called laminar chaos and is found only in systems
with dissipative delay. These solutions are fundamentally different from the slowly oscillating
solutions, which are known for constant delay systems. In fact, they are a result of the Doppler
effect with self-feedback due to a time-varying dissipative delay. In the following, we present a
systematic analysis of the dynamics due to dissipative delays for the nonlinear DDE (3.1). It opens
a rich variety of periodic and chaotic dynamics, which may be interesting for applications.

For T + ov, the derivative term on the left-hand side of DDE (3.1) vanishes and equation (3.1)
becomes equation (2.3), which can be solved via the recurrence relation (2.4). In this context,
equation (2.4) is called limit map as it was done for the analogous relation for constant delay
[64]. Thus, the main effect of the interaction of a nonlinearity with a time-varying delay can be
understood by studying the limit map equation (2.4) with nonlinear f. For finite T, there is an
additional effect due to the time derivative in equation (3.1). In this case, the DDE (3.1) can be
solved by the method of steps, which makes use of the variation of constants approach to solve
the DDE (3.1) in one solution segment [44]