magnetic and electric field shear. Owing to the necessary magnetic shear component, the pedestal
width is limited to approximately 5% of the minor radius, dependent on the shape of the magnetic
shear profile, which depends in turn on elongation, triangularity and bootstrap current. This
model also explains the degradation of energy confinement with density as observed in existing
machines due to the VP/n dependence of the electric field shear.

The model was applied to map out the operational space of the existing ITER machine and of
the old 1990s ITER machine which had a major radius of 8.2m and thus is more representative of
a fusion reactor [4]. Owing to the need for input data, such as equilibria, etc. it was not possible
to perform the calculations for a larger machine as described above. However, if one considers
a 1.3m thick blanket, which is a reactor relevant breeding blanket, instead of the 0.5m blanket
in ITER, then the plasma size represents a 9m fusion reactor which is already quite close to the
10m described above. Owing to the fact that the old ITER machine had an aspect ratio around 3
the fusion power would be lower than in a 2.5 aspect ratio machine with the same major radius.
Figures 2 and 3 show the operation spaces in inductive only operation of ITER and the 8.2m
machine named DEMO due to its relevance for a fusion reactor plasma.

As one can see in figure 2, ITER will achieve 500 MW below the Greenwald density and if, as
the author is convinced, the Greenwald density is not the limit one can see that ITER could achieve
up to a GW of fusion power in a small corner of the operational window. The different boundaries
such as H-mode transition, the edge-based density limit (X-Point MARFE), etc. are shown in
two different representations, namely additional heating power versus density normalized to
Greenwald and Q versus alpha power. Figure 3 shows the same two graphs for the DEMO
machine in inductive operation. One can see that the DEMO machine could achieve 3 GW fusion
power just at the edge of its operational space and only above the Greenwald density. In a lower