MEM, even slight model misspecification leads to inconsistency for the number of clusters. As
mixture models are inherently built for density estimation, it is intuitively reasonable that an
overestimation of the number of clusters occurs in the misspecified case, since more components
are required to accurately recover the density. This highlights the fundamental trade-off between
clustering and density estimation for mixtures.

To improve model-based clustering in the misspecified setting, robust clustering methods
have been developed. Examples include coarsened posteriors for mixture models [155] as well
as modal-based clustering [156]. While such approaches may result in more robust clustering
solutions, optimal statistical properties for density estimation may be lost. In general, both density
estimation and clustering may be of interest. Thus, we consider Bayesian model-based clustering
via mixtures, to retain optimal properties for density estimation, and focus on the comparison
of different estimates for the number of clusters and clustering solution. In fact, we find that the
number of clusters can change drastically depending on the estimator used.

The literature discussed above estimates the number of clusters via the marginal posterior on
the number of non-empty components. Alternatively, the full clustering solution can be estimated,
without conditioning on the number of clusters, thus also implicitly providing an estimate of this
number. In fact, Rajkowski [157] demonstrates that the MAP clustering has desirable asymptotic
properties in the simple example of Miller & Harrison [145], in stark contrast to the severe
inconsistency of the marginal posterior on the number of clusters. To estimate the clustering
solution, various ad hoc methods have been proposed [158-161]. Instead, we focus on a decision-
theoretic approach, obtaining the optimal clustering by minimizing the posterior expectation of
a specified loss function measuring the discrepancy between the true and estimating clustering.
The MAP clustering is obtained under the 0-1 loss, and various search algorithms have been