longstanding matter of debate [98-100].

The above theoretical construction has led to pioneering works about the root cause of CMEs:
these large-scale solar eruptions are a necessity for the Sun to relax from the excess magnetic
helicity it accumulates in its atmosphere [101-104]. When decayed ARs fade away from the
photosphere back to the solar interior, they should carry little or no helicity, as returning to
below the photosphere with substantial amounts of helicity (and hence currents) violates entropy
arguments. Therefore, over the billions of years of solar magnetic activity, an infinite amount
of helicity would have been accumulated in the solar atmosphere, where free magnetic energy
is constantly released to power the observed dynamics and to keep the corona hot. A counter-
argument to bodily expulsion of magnetic helicity is helicity annihilation, apparently at work in

some numerical models (e.g. [105]), that relies on the fact that helicity is a signed quantity, so it : =
can be left- or right-handed. A magnetic reconnection of oppositely helical magnetic structures : =
can lead to helicity cancellation or annihilation. While this notion is mathematically possible, it 13
is challenged by the observed prevalence of opposite magnetic helicity signs in the northern and i=
southern solar hemispheres [102] that is irrespective of the solar cycle [106], hence the reversal 8
of solar magnetic poles, and is found to be due to the (equally unaffected by solar cycles) solar aivel
differential rotation [107]. If helicity annihilation is not the principal way for the Sun to relieve : s
itself from its excess helicity, then expulsion of helical magnetic structures in the form of CMEs : =
is the only known (and viable) way, not only for the Sun but, generally, for magnetically active, 1
flaring stars [108]. is

So far, we have dealt almost exclusively with magnetic helicity. However, helicity, in general,
is a topological property that quantifies the twist and the writhe of any divergence-free (i.e.