
helium (Ip < 1.14 x 10!° Wcm~*). This configuration is different from the simulated case shown
in §2b, where also the first level of helium was assumed pre-ionized. The hydrogen plasma
density at the plateau is np =8 x 10!8cm~°. Figure 5a shows a snapshot of the simulation after
450 um of propagation. At this point, the drive beam has been fully refocused into the blowout
regime. As a result of this process, an electron bunch composed by electrons ionized from the
first level of helium has been trapped. The trapping of this electron species happens during the
transverse focusing of the beam, which induces a rapid elongation of the blowout cavity. Owing
to this cavity elongation, the trapped electrons span a wider phase range, making possible the
generation of longer beams. Another consequence of this process is the self-truncation of the
injection. In this set-up, the length of the dopant section is not constrained as in the example
shown in §2b. Therefore, it is expected to have continuous injection at the back of the cavity until
the accelerating fields are fully saturated. In fact, this effect is observed in the simulation for the
electrons ionized from the second level of helium. However, due to the cavity elongation during
the focusing, these electrons are being trapped behind the previously injected beam, and, thus,
they do not overlap time nor influence the quality of the primarily injected beam. Figure 5b shows
the combined longitudinal phase space of the driver and the injected electrons, after 1.8mm of
propagation. At this point, the driver is already partially depleted, as a substantial fraction of its
electrons lost their kinetic energy, while the primary injected bunch reaches an average energy of
330 MeV (32% higher than the initial energy of the driver), within a quasi-monochromatic peak
of only 1.6% energy spread. With more details, we show in figure 5c the longitudinal phase space
of the witness beam, featuring 23 pC, 6 fs duration and an approximately flat-top 4kA current
profile. The projected normalized emittance of the beam is 0.5 1m, an order of magnitude smaller
than the initial emittance of the driver beam produced in the LWFA stage. The sliced normalized
emittance is also shown in figure 5c(ii), exhibiting values of around 100 nm in its frontal part. The