Classification of Finite Simple Groups, whose published proof amounts, according to
the most conservative estimate, to some 15000 pages. It is essentially the proof of the
theorem itself, that further relies on scores of subsidiary facts on finite groups and their
representations, algebraic groups, finite geometries, etc. However, the same question
naturally arises in connection with any sufficiently advanced result, whose formidable
proof takes a few hundred pages of tough, tightly knit and highly specialized arguments,
that in turn rely on oodles of previous difficult results.


In these circumstances, ignorant popularisers and journalists started to speak about ‘loss of
certainty’ and even ‘death of proof’. However, for the reasons I’m going to sketch in this article,
lam inclined to believe that the status of all results mentioned above—and of their proofs!—is not
significantly different from the status of deep mathematical results of previous centuries. In fact,
I am ready to contend that mathematical proofs never—from the times of Greeks!—satisfied the
declared standards. The claim of Bourbaki is utterly wrong in all of its parts, and, in particular,
none of the arguments in the first (geometric) books of Euclid would stand as a proof ‘a nos
yeux’—the proof is in the eyes of the beholder! The real wonder of Greek Mathematics is that
some of the proofs in the subsequent (arithmetic) books of Euclid still are proofs in our eyes, to
such an extent that we are still telling them to our students!

On the other hand, unlike individual proofs, mathematical knowledge as such has exceptionally
high reliability. Not just occasional mistakes, but even systematic delusions and fallacies never
seriously endanger Mathematics as a whole, or any of its significant parts. This admirable
reliability of Mathematics, like reliability of scientific and engineering knowledge, is ensured not
by proofs of individual results, but by general coherence of the mathematical and scientific view