inaccuracies. Here is how Rota recounts the story in his ‘Indiscrete thoughts’ [19]: ‘Once
more let me begin with Hilbert. When the Germans were planning to publish Hilbert’s
collected papers and to present him with a set on the occasion of one of his later
birthdays, they realized that they could not publish the papers in their original versions
because they were full of errors, some of them quite serious. Thereupon they hired a
young unemployed mathematician, Olga Taussky-Todd, to go over Hilbert’s papers and
correct all mistakes. Olga labored for three years; it turned out that all mistakes could
be corrected without any major changes in the statement of the theorems. ... At last, on
Hilbert’s birthday, a freshly printed set of Hilbert’s collected papers was presented to the
Geheimrat. Hilbert leafed through them carefully and did not note anything.’ According
to Reid [20], Hilbert was aware of the changes but was not concerned.

It is a fact of life that mathematicians do make mistakes. Another fact of life is that the majority of
them are of a trivial nature and can be corrected ‘without major changes to the statements’. There
are bad mistakes, related to haste, or complete lack of vision, where nothing can be salvaged.
But there are also good mistakes, which show that there is something fundamental out there,
that we do not appreciate or comprehend. Such mistakes should be recognized, nourished and
rationalized, and eventually lead to a deeper understanding. This is what Dali says about good
mistakes: ‘Les erreurs ont presque toujours un caractére sacré. N’essayez jamais de les corriger.
Au contraire: rationalisez les, comprenez les bien. Aprés cela, il sera possible pour vous de les
sublimer.’ Or, as Arnold puts it, ‘The role of mistakes in Mathematics is not smaller than that of
proofs: analysing their reasons and the ways to overcome them, you can move ahead much faster,
than by stubbornly pushing in an unexplored direction’ [14].

Actually, I consider the practice of finding mistakes where there are none, or blowing