
The spider webs are the living instance of a pre-stressed system called tensional integrity. The
structures of spider webs represent unique structural and bending properties, with high structural
efficiency due to the optimal distribution of structural mass. The architecture of the web depends
on the geometry and spacing between the spirals. It plays an important role in determining the
stiffness, damping and prey capturing properties of the web [10,12]. The spider web architecture
is formed in such a way that the web allows rapid energy absorption properties of the prey hitting
it as well as the constraint of extreme oscillations. The spider web consists of different types of
silk (spiral, radial and junction) with their different functions [13].

The 2D webs transmit the vibration signal and give information about the existence and
position of prey to the spider within the web. The spider recognizes vibrations produced from
different sources, such as wind, rain, prey or other conditions [14]. In fact, the orb-weaver spider
depends only on the vibrational properties of the web to detect the stimuli within the webs
[15]. The spider’s sensation of transmitted vibrations clearly allows it to identify orientation and
discrimination towards the detected stimulus source. Barrows [16] reported that the spider orients
itself within the centre of the spider web to seize flies that impact the web. Most spiders sit on the
web to monitor the prey or predators [17].

Capturing the prey within the web strongly depends upon three factors: (i) the prey’s contact
with the web, (ii) absorption of kinetic energy in the web and (iii) impact of striking force on
the web surface [18-20]. When the prey strikes the web, the spreading of stress within the web
is different at different loading points. The threads of spider web are stretched while the prey
is hitting on web, and the kinetic energy of flight is transferred to the web, which produces the
vibrations. The force is transmitted from the prey-hit point to the spider through the radial threads