2. Wetting of natural impregnated surfaces

Lubrication of solid rough and flat pre-wetted surfaces is ubiquitous in nature. Cartilage integrity,
for example, is impossible without lubrication [16]. In this case, lubricin (a surface-active
mucinous glycoprotein secreted in the synovial joint) is used as a lubricating agent providing
a coefficient of friction (1) on the order of approximately 0.01 or less [17,18]. Even the best-
manufactured bearing surfaces, for example, Teflon, demonstrate significantly higher values of
(approx. 0.04). The surface of articular cartilage demonstrates highly developed micro-porous
topography constituted by collagen fibres impregnated with water, which is in contact with the
synovial fluid (lubricant) [19]. It was shown that lubricin was able to lubricate non-cartilaginous
surfaces as effectively as whole synovial fluid in the boundary mode. Thus, the lubricant contacts
an organic surface already impregnated with water (static and dynamic peculiarities in the
wetting of impregnated surfaces will be discussed later in detail). In spite of the fact that the
physics of lubrication inherent for cartilage is not completely understood, artificial lubricants
mimicking natural ones have already been reported [20]. Poly (vinylalcohol) (PVA) hydrogel with
high water content was reported as a bio-mimicking candidate material for artificial cartilage
[20]. The design and manufacture of artificial articular cartilage is an extremely challenging
engineering task, requiring consideration of optimal lubrication (tribology) and wear aspects
[21,22]. It was reported that the interfacial energy and wettability of tribo-pair surfaces in an
aqueous environment is of prime importance in ensuring effective aqueous lubrication in the
design of materials appropriated for articular cartilage [23]. The interplay between wear and
wetting, which remains obscure to a great extent, was discussed recently [24].


Another example of the wetting of lubricated surfaces, which has provided much inspiration