
of particles. Most of these products are quickly absorbed by the atmosphere, although some
others, such as the muons, are able to propagate to the surface of the Earth before decaying or
being absorbed. Precise measurements of the flux of cosmic muons at different altitudes including
the Earth’s surface can be found in [1].

Muons are subatomic particles sharing the properties of the electrons and about 200 times
heavier than them. Since they are charged particles, they undergo electromagnetic interactions
with the atoms of the material they cross in two interesting ways: losing energy through
ionization of the material, or being deflected as a result of the multiple scattering with the
material nuclei. Both processes have a strong dependency on the properties of the crossed
medium such as the density, the atomic number or the number of radiation lengths, providing :
a powerful handle to identify its size, shape and composition. This fact enabled the possibility of ig
measuring the attenuation or the bending of the muons when crossing an object to infer details
about its geometry. This technique is nowadays known as muon radiography (MR). The first
effort in developing this technology was made in the context of underground applications using
attenuation [2]. Other applications have been published using also the muon deviation pattern [3].

MR applications involve two different developments: the manufacturing of muon detectors
and the algorithmic reconstruction of the target geometry. Muon detectors frequently use the
ionization of the muons when crossing their active material to determine its position. Different
materials are used for this purpose being the most common gas, scintillators and silicon cells.
All of them require a readout electronic system that is able to extract and digitize the signal.
Reconstruction algorithms strongly depend on the application and physical principle considered.
For those applications using the muon deflection several algorithms are available on the market.