It should be stressed that the model itself is completely uniform here. The anisotropic and
inhomogeneous behaviours of the rupture of the model are dynamically self-generated in its
stress state via the completely homogeneous evolution rule and uniform material parameters.
In seismology, when eminent inhomogeneity and irregularity are observed, they are usually
ascribed to the inhomogeneity of the material parameters. Our present result, however, gives
a caveat to such a naive interpretation. Even a completely uniform system could, at least in
principle, exhibit a strongly inhomogeneous and irregular behaviour in its rupture. Of course,
there also exists a good possibility that the inhomogeneity in the usual sense, e.g. inhomogeneity
in material parameters, geography of the fault, water contents, etc., plays a crucial role. In any
case, the true physical origin of the so-called asperities needs further careful examination.

Large events of the present 2D model tend to be unilateral, with its epicentre lying at the rim
of the rupture zone. In fact, the epicentre of the target event is located just next to the rim of the
rupture zone of some past event, the rupture propagating away from the rupture zone of that past
event. Hence, the events of the 2D model are of type-I in the terminology of [40]. In the recurrence
of large events, while there is a characteristic recurrence time, an immediate recurrence of large
events in the form of twin events is also possible.

Event-size distributions such as the magnitude distribution and the rupture-length
distribution were also studied. The event-size distributions of the 2D model exhibit behaviours a
bit different from those in 1D. It exhibits a GR-like power-law behaviour for smaller magnitudes,
which changes over to a more characteristic behaviour for larger magnitudes. In fact, such a
change of behaviour, i.e. the GR law holding for smaller magnitudes but a significant deviation
from the GR law at larger magnitudes, has been reported also in real seismicity [55-57].
