+I

Equations (3.7) and (3.8) remain coupled at the linear level through the spatial first derivative
cross terms, corresponding to a dispersion relation given by (3.6). Even with linear stability,
(3.6) does not allow for a simple decoupling of (3.7) and (3.8) into two linear equations for
arbitrary qj and q,. We now make further simplifying approximation and set By; =0=B,,
which implies that the spatial variations of uj along x, direction does not affect the local
distortion of u, and vice versa. This approximation decouples equations (3.7) and (3.8). The
individual wave-like terms in (3.7) and (3.8) can be absorbed separately by going to the
respective comoving frames, which make both (3.7) and (3.8) take the standard form of the
linear Edward-Wilkinson (EW) equation with quenched disorder [16], that is studied extensively
in the literature, shows roughening phenomena that is controlled by the quenched disorder.
Given the fact that linear equations (3.7) and (3.8) are essentially coupled generalizations of
the standard quenched EW equation, the former equations should also display roughening
phenomena. In the special limit By =0, uy follows the standard quenched EW equation (after
removing the B)-term by comoving). The statistical properties of uy are known in this limit [16].
In this limit, the dynamics of u, as given by (3.8) clearly has uj in it through B,-term.
The latter contribution may be interpreted as an additional additive noise with a statistics
determined by the quenched EW equation. This is going to alter the statistics of roughening
of u, from its EW limit (B, =0). Consider now the general case, in the where none of By
and B, vanish. In the comoving frame of u,, the B\-term in (3.8) disappears, and the m)-
fluctuations in this frame are primarily wave-like, leading to make them subdominant to the
corresponding u, fluctuations. This is expected to make the B,-term in (3.8) irrelevant in a
scaling sense [17]. This should then restore the standard quenched EW scaling for u, [16]. Similar
arguments yield the same quenched EW scaling for u)-fluctuations. Overall thus, our discussions