The best known paradox is almost certainly the grandfather paradox: what if the Time Traveller :
journeys back to when granddad is a baby and kills him—from where then comes the Time [=
Traveller? This is an old paradox, one that generations of science fiction writers have had a lot 5
of fun with, but in fact there is a resolution to it that has found general agreement among most :
physicists and philosophers, a resolution that does not conclude that time travel to the past is Da
impossible [36,40]. There are, however, plenty of other even more bizarre paradoxes that have not :
been so tamed, and I'll concentrate here on just one type, a type that lends itself in a natural way 74
to Heaviside’s FTL particles, as well as to his early life as a telegraph operator. I am referring to 73
the possibility (or not) of creating an information loop in time. : S

6. Messages to the past

The classic science fiction example of a temporal information loop is the story of a physicist who
has been trying, without success, to build a time machine. Then, when he has become sufficiently
frustrated as to be just about ready to toss the whole business in the trash, a silent visitor (who
bears a remarkable resemblance to our hero) appears on the physicist’s doorstep, hands him a
thick notebook and leaves. In the notebook are detailed instructions, written in a bold hand, in
ink, on how to build a time machine. This the physicist does and, 20 years later and the winner
of three consecutive Nobel prizes, he decides to journey back to give the notebook to his younger
self. We seem to have a self-consistent loop (or do we?—more on this in just a moment), but the
obvious, immediate question that presents itself is: who wrote the notebook? It certainly was not
the physicist: the book was handed to him, he kept it in his possession for 20 years and then he
handed it back to himself. Not even once did he put pen or ink to paper. So who did?

Perhaps surprisingly, information loops in time have a long literary history that pre-dates