rated incorrectly as having a high risk of being re-arrested upon release nearly twice as often as : =
white arrestees. This causes black arrestees to be required to post bail when no bail is deserved at a : S
higher rate than whites. In turn, black arrestees find themselves systematically less able to mount 2
a defence to the case against them, reinforcing historical and structural discrimination. This gives aed
rather clinical decisions in the design of the risk-rating system a strong ethical dimension. Similar 22
audits have turned up issues of bias reinforcement in systems that guide police to portions of a [4
city to patrol [36], and in e-commerce platforms [35]. The theoretical potential for discrimination : =
in automated systems is well established [15,41,42]. : S

Measuring the performance of a system in the wild is also useful during the development and : S

fielding of a system to uncover bugs, biases and incorrect assumptions. Even carefully designed
systems can miss important facts about the world, and it is important to verify that systems are
operating as intended and satisfying their articulated requirements. This is the classical problem
of measurement: do data reflect the world and the object of study sufficiently accurately? A related
concern is that of construct validity, the degree to which a model or test accurately measures what
it purports to measure, a multi-pronged concept that connects both actual fidelity to the world,
theoretical groundedness, the risks of performing the measurement, interrelatedness of the factors
being considered, and generalizability of the results [14,43].

Regular measurement helps to manage the twin phenomena of concept drift—changes in
the world that can invalidate assumptions baked into collected data or data collection and
normalization methodology—and modelling error—choices which cause the assumptions of a
computer system to diverge from the reality of the world. Only measuring and validating a
system against the world can manage and control these risks. Such measurements are undertaken