numerical models designed to map regions of parameter space that allow for multiple tectonic 2
modes [116]. At the same time, a theoretical analysis elucidated the underlying physics that is

allowed for bi-stable tectonic behaviour [77]. The predictions of the theoretical approach were
subsequently tested against numerical calculations with consistent results [117]. If we relax the
need for tectonic bi-stability to be called out explicitly, | would argue that the history of the idea
goes back further.

Bi-stable systems allow for regime transitions even if the system never becomes primed for a
transition along its evolution path (figure 8c). The system can still transition as a result of a finite
amplitude perturbation that causes it to cross a seperatrix between distinct modes [104-106]. All :
system parameters (e.g. internal energy, lithosphere strength) can remain constant in the process. :=
Finite amplitude instabilities can occur in a range of physical systems (e.g. [118]). The fact that :3
subduction initiation was argued to be a finite amplitude instability [119] suggests that the idea :
of multiple stable tectonic modes has been lurking in the background for some time. If subduction DB
initiation is a finite amplitude instability, then the existence and non-existence of subduction are :
both viable under equivalent conditions. Although subduction need not lead to plate tectonics 4
(it is not sufficient), plate tectonics does require subduction (it is necessary). For this reason, : w
I would argue that the history of the idea that a regime diagram view of tectonic transitions can 7S
be misleading goes back to [119]. :B

With some historical credit in place, we return to the implications of differing end-member .
views (figure 8). A regime diagram end-member implies that plate tectonics could emerge along
some point in a planet’s cooling history (from a sluggish, episodic or hot stagnant lid state)
and then transition to a cold stagnant lid as internal energy is tapped (i.e. the thermal death