views (figure 8). A regime diagram end-member implies that plate tectonics could emerge along
some point in a planet’s cooling history (from a sluggish, episodic or hot stagnant lid state)
and then transition to a cold stagnant lid as internal energy is tapped (i.e. the thermal death
of plate tectonics). This would lead to a single answer to the question of when did plate tectonics
begin (the age range might be narrow or protracted but it would be a unique period along a
planet’s geological lifetime). This is a best-case scenario for using the geological record to answer
the ‘when’ question (which is not to imply that it will be easy or even possible, to some level
of collective agreement, given the incompleteness/uncertainty of the record and restrictions of
spatial coverage). What follows are potential complications that cannot be ruled out at present.

Multi-stable behaviour allows for the possibility that plate tectonics could emerge, transition
to another mode and re-emerge along a planet's cooling path [112]. The question of ‘when’ would
then need to be clarified. One could ask ‘When was the most recent emergence?’ but the fact
would remain that interpretation of the geological record, which could contain signals of prior
emergence, would need to be treated differently. Evidence for single plate behaviour over the
Earth’s midlife [5] would, under that possibility, not be inconsistent with subduction and/or plate
tectonic signatures earlier in the geological record.

Finite amplitude instabilities can fail. A perturbation can cause a system to move toward a
different tectonic mode but if internal feedbacks are not activated the mode might not be stabilized
and, for a bi-stable system, the prior mode can be re-established (figure 9a). Potential stabilizing
feedbacks include: (i) a history dependence of fault zone strength that allows weak boundaries
to progressively develop to the point that they can remain stable [100]; (ii) the development of
an asthenosphere which can stabilize a plate tectonic mode of behaviour [39]; (iii) a history-
dependent change in mean plate thickness which can alter system energetics in a way that favours