but the structure of oceanic lithosphere is very different because of the secular cooling of the mantle (figures 8a and 9a). The
average thickness of continental crust is likely to have been stable since around 3 Ga [215]. Continental crust could have been
largely submarine during the Archean, as suggested by the abundance of submarine continental flood basalts [216] and also
implied by freeboard modelling [100].

and it will be worthwhile to develop this working hypothesis into a physics-based theory. Such
effort will produce an array of testable predictions and help to revise or correct any aspect of
the hypothesis. It will also allow us to evaluate the issue of preservation bias in a quantitative
manner. Though often downplayed in the community, preservation bias presents a serious
problem to our inquiry to the history of plate tectonics. The primary function of plate tectonics
may be described as destroying geological records by subduction, so the absence of evidence is
clearly not the evidence of absence. Also, what has been preserved to the present may not be
representative of what has been lost by subduction; the very fact of being preserved, despite
the destructive nature of plate tectonics, may require some special conditions [6]. In spite of
these obvious concerns, arguments based on preservation bias are usually discouraged because
they are hard (if not impossible) to test. However, if we can build a physics-based theory for
the coupled ocean-crust—-mantle evolution, such a theory could also quantify the preservation


likelihood of a certain geological record, providing a statistical basis for the discussion of its
rarity. For example, Shirey & Richardson [218] suggested the onset of global plate tectonics at
3Ga based on the absence of eclogitic diamonds, which are thought to have originated from
subducted oceanic crust, in the continental mantle lithosphere prior to 3 Ga, but this observation
may also be explained by preservation bias. At any given time, the amount of subducted oceanic
crust trapped in the continental mantle lithosphere is likely to be small [219], and the likelihood