mechanisms and thermal cracking. These cases are different by up to two orders of magnitudes over the bulk of lithosphere.

made on laboratory experiments because the rheology of analogue materials used for such
experiments [129,130] can be only qualitatively similar to that of silicate rocks.

Finally, mantle convection is heated both from below and within, and this mode of heating
is called mixed heating. Heating from below represents core heat flow, and heating from within
originates from the decay of radioactive isotopes. Because both types of heating change with time,
the heating mode of mantle convection is fundamentally transient. There are two ways to handle
this transient mixed heating. One is to simulate a time-dependent system directly (e.g. [120,131]),
but such simulation would depend on the particular choice of initial conditions. The other is to
translate transient mixed heating to equivalent steady-state mixed heating, by emulating the effect
of secular cooling with fictitious internal heating [132,133], and run a model until it reaches some
steady state; such a steady-state solution is usually independent of initial conditions. This steady-
state approach has been popular because it is easier to characterize steady-state solutions and thus
understand the underlying physics better. However, the effect of secular cooling is sometimes not
properly incorporated, and in that case, simulation results may not find their application to the
dynamics of the Earth’s mantle [134]. If only radiogenic heat production is used in a steady-state
simulation, i.e. the effect of secular cooling is entirely neglected, a resulting solution would be
characterized by too strong upwelling from the bottom (corresponding to unrealistically high
core heat flow). This is because, in a steady-state convection model, the top heat flow must be


equal to the sum of internal heating and the bottom heat flow, so if fictitious internal heating is
not provided to emulate secular cooling, the bottom heat flow has to increase accordingly.