the personal information of subject k) [28]. This view of disclosure is interpreted as having a
goal similar to semantic security: ‘access to a statistical database should not enable one to learn
anything about an individual that could not be learned without access’ [29].1°

Note that, while not fully formalized, this desiderata is essentially equivalent to semantic
security. There are, however, significant differences between applying this concept to encryption
and to data privacy. In particular, the setting of encryption schemes clearly distinguishes between
the party who should be able to learn the message m (i.e. Bob) and an eavesdropping attacker
who should not gain any information about m. By contrast, when statistics are computed over
a collection of personal data, the analyst (understood broadly as any party with access to the
published outcome) is both the proper consumer of the statistics and a potential privacy attacker.

Semantic security has proved to be a fundamental concept for encryption. In fact, encryption
schemes that are in common use today are semantically secure (under some mathematical
assumptions). However, Dwork & Naor [29] demonstrated that the concept cannot be applied
in the context of private data analysis as it would imply (reusing Dalenius’ words in [28])
‘elimination of statistics’. To understand what this means, consider an example, taken from
Dwork & Naor [29]. Suppose the attacker has the auxiliary information ‘Terry Gross is two
inches shorter than the average Lithuanian woman’. Without access to statistical information
about Lithuanian women, the attacker has little information about Terry Gross’ (secret) height,
but the situation changes dramatically once statistics about the average heights of the Lithuanian
population are published, as the attacker can now combine the published average height with
his auxiliary information to learn Gross’ height. The release of the average height of Lithuanian
women (whether exact or an approximation) does not satisfy semantic security as it allows some
attackers (those who posses relevant auxiliary knowledge) to improve their predictions of Gross’