which guarantees the existence of gapless Majorana fermions. They proposed that the power-law
depletion of the superfluid current is attributed to the thermal excitations of gapless Majorana
fermions.

In addition to the P3 symmetry, there is another order-two magnetic point group symmetry
that protects the non-trivial topological properties of "He. This is referred to as the Pr symmetry,
where the operator is constructed from the combination of the mirror reflection and time-reversal
operation (see equation (3.20)). The Pz symmetry is a key to understand the topological aspect
of the planar phase whose order parameter is given by A(k) = io oy(%kx + gky). It is remarkable
that although the planar phase is accompanied by pairwise point nodes, they cannot be protected
by the first Chern number in contrast to Weyl SCs/SFs such as 3He-A. In [8,34,97], however, it
is found that in the planar phase the zero-energy flat band terminated by the pairwise point
nodes is protected by the P2 symmetry. This is attributed to the fact that the BdG Hamiltonian
having the P2 symmetry preserves the chiral symmetry in equation (3.23) and thus the one-
dimensional winding number is well defined in each one-dimensional momentum path which
is perpendicular to the nodal direction (k,). This is another mechanism on the stability of the
surface Fermi arc which essentially differs from that of Weyl SCs/SFs. We also note that the
concept of the P7 symmetry protected Fermi arc is extended to various superconducting materials,
including the time-reversal-invariant E},, scenario of the heavy-fermion UPts [97] and the E,, state
of superconducting topological insulator Cu,Bi2Se3 [156]. As the Majorana Ising spin is a generic
consequence of the chiral symmetry in equation (3.23), the surface Fermi arc protected by the P2
symmetry possesses the Ising-like magnetic anisotropy. The Fermi arc is gapped out by only a
magnetic field perpendicular to the mirror plane.

(c) Andreev bound states as odd-frequency pairing