product B; for this degradation to be sustained, it is admitted that the concentrations of A and
B inside the system are constant in time and space. Apart from this consideration showing his
perception that basic physical questions remained to be clarified, his preoccupation was above all
to present the rich potentialities of the mechanism of spatial symmetry breaking he proposes. He
sets up a tractable mathematical framework and idealized model that he hopes will be plausible
enough to interest developmental biologists. More precisely, his aim is to convince them of their
relevance in the context of the embryo morphogenesis problem.

Remarkably, though the chemical model of Turing is complicated, the kinetics of the
individual, independent chemical reactions steps considered is classical and simple: at most it
is bimolecular; i.e. the same kind of kinetics as the one adopted in previous unsuccessful attempts
to put into evidence the thermodynamics that explains the sustained oscillations observed with
an enzymatic process of the glycolytic cycle. At first sight, this fact in itself was already nothing
less than very astonishing: how can linear, per se stable, diffusion render unstable uniform
concentration distributions in bimolecular reacting systems that otherwise are per se stable when
diffusion is absent, e.g. under well-mixed conditions? Computer simulations were also reported’?
confirming the occurrence of patterning behaviours in the instability domain of the model; the
drawback that locally some component's concentration becomes negative during such evolution
could be put right numerically by resetting negative values equal to zero when they appear.

| too préoccupied probably at that time by linear thermodynamics I have not been receptive enough.

12Notable early citations are those of John Maynard Smith in developmental biology [54,55] and that of Gmitro and Scriven
emphasizing a convergence of interests between areas in chemical engineering and cell physiology [56].
