certain other systems) are given the special status of being essentially independent of the rest
of the universe. The special statuses and corresponding perspectives are removed on adopting
the Copernican model and Brans’ fully causal model [7,8] in the historic and modern-day cases,
respectively. Moreover, the retrograde motion is explained away as being apparent motion and
the instantaneous spooky action is accounted for by a common cause [7,9], respectively. Further
details of this argument can be found in appendix A. The point I make here is this. Although
Laplacian determinism challenges the notion that humans can act freely, insisting humans are
not shackled by Laplacian determinism does not actually clash with classical physics because the
physical actions of any human can be mimicked by an appropriately programmed and sufficiently
dexterous robot entirely in accord with classical physics. But now, following the discovery of
quantum mechanics, we find that insisting human actions are essentially independent of the rest
of the universe has an apparent physical consequence in the appearance of instantaneous spooky
action. The fact that this consequence can be placed in analogy with the apparent retrograde
motion associated with the Ptolemaic model undermines the argument for human independence.
As such, it poses a new challenge to the notion that humans can act freely.

The tendency for scientific advances to reinforce the case for a mechanistic model of ourselves
shows no sign of abatement. In the following, I discuss how my recently introduced quantum
theory of time [10,11] maintains this trend. In particular, the new theory involves a set of states,
each one of which represents a physical system such as a galaxy as existing, in the case of time
reversal symmetry, at one specific time. However, in the case of a violation of time reversal
symmetry (T violation) of the kind observed in particle physics [12,13], the set of states represent
the galaxy as existing at a sequence of increasing times. Each state provides ontological support
for our subjective perception of existing in the present and the ordered sequence of states provides
ontological support for our perception of progressing through time from the past to the future.