variable), though it must clearly be related to the Richardson number. Lozovatsky & Fernando [6]
argue that the mixing efficiency of naturally occurring stratified shear flows is given by the
parameter y = Ry (1 — R¢), where Ry is the flux Richardson number. They use the wind velocity
and sonic temperature data obtained near Salt Lake City, Utah, to examine the dependence of y on
both the Richardson number and the (appropriate) Reynolds number. The authors find that the
mixing efficiency is a constant in certain ranges of these parameters, but not in others. Broadly
speaking, the results explain the wide variability of y noted in previous studies of geophysical
problems involving turbulent mixing.

Engineering and geophysical problems involving turbulent mixing—ranging from the spread
of pollutants and hazardous plumes to combustion to the effect of anthropogenic tracers in
climate change—are typically very complex and it has been difficult to derive rigorous results for
these complex problems. On the other hand, rigorous results can, in fact, be attained for simple
models of the complex phenomena. If these models are good enough to capture qualitatively
the basic ingredients of laboratory experiments and real phenomena, it is conceivable that
one may better understand the underlying physical content of the observed complexity. This
content could include such features as transitions between Gaussian and stretched-tail probability
density functions for the passive scalar, the nature of the steady-state turbulent spectrum for
scalar variance and the eddy diffusivity approximations for tracers. Such studies also advance
our arsenal of mathematical tools in addressing the more difficult class of real problems. The
paper by Majda & Gershgorin [7] belongs to this class and is motivated by considerations
of climate variations. It develops the theme by considering the problem of zonal jets and
B-plane Rossby waves. Closed exact formulas for the mean and variance of a model equation
with interesting simplifications are obtained, along with results for quantities such as non-local
eddy diffusivity.