important part’. This problem differs from most others on Hilbert’s list in essential ways, and its
inclusion has been the object of noticeable reaction from mathematicians and historians who have
discussed it throughout the years. Thus, in reports occasionally written about the current state of
research on the 23 problems, the special status of the sixth problem is readily visible: not only has
it been difficult to decide to what extent the problem was actually solved (or not), but also one
gets the impression that, of all the problems on the list, this one received the least attention from

mathematicians throughout the century and that relatively little effort was directed at solving it : =
[1,2]. 13

Many a historical account simply dismissed the sixth problem as a slip on Hilbert’s side, as a : a
curiosity, and as an artificial addition to what would otherwise appear as an organically conceived aes
list, naturally connected to his broad range of mathematical interests (e.g. [3, p. 159]). In fact, this : _
is how Hilbert’s interest in physical topics in general and his few, well-known incursions into [4
physical problems have been traditionally seen. According to this view, these are seen as sporadic : =
incursions into foreign territory, mainly for the purposes of finding some new applications to : =
what would otherwise be purely mathematically motivated ideas. This is the case, for instance, D8

with Hilbert’s solution of the Boltzmann equation in kinetic theory of gases in 1912. Starting
in 1902, most of Hilbert’s mathematical energies had been focused on research related with the
theory of linear integral equations, and his solution of the Boltzmann equation could thus be seen
as no more than an application of the techniques developed as part of that theory to a particular
situation, the physical background of which would be of no direct interest to Hilbert. An account
in this spirit appears in Stephen G. Brush’s authoritative book on the development of kinetic
theory, according to which