call a group for which the three-state model holds a city. The interactions between cities will be
modelled as an ordinary differential equation (ODE) system on a graph, where the dynamics
on each node are those for the three-state model, and the dynamics between the nodes follows
an interaction rule which is similar to that which leads to the three-state model. Our model
resembles [26], in which laws of motion for the probabilities of each individual holding an opinion
are derived (also see [27], where the modelling and analysis draw from ideas in low-temperature
thermodynamics).

A primary motivation for our model is the question of spatial variation in opinion formation.
In the USA, any map associated with a presidential election makes clear that, while there
is often local (county, zip code) consensus on a candidate, there is huge spatial variation in
voting preference. In particular, there are clusters of local communities which will agree on a
candidate. Governing this clustering phenomena is the fact that opinions within a community
are not solely governed by the interactions within that same community. Outside voices, e.g.
the media, scattered friends and family, migrants and tourists, all play a role in the formation
of opinions at a local level. Therefore, isolated communities can be thought to be connected
by weighted, directed edges where each incoming edge weight is the probability of interacting
with individuals from the source community. Our model allows for the possibility that a city
like New York can exert more influence on Uncertain, Texas [28] than Uncertain does on
New York.

In our analysis, we address the question of whether or not there is pluralism. As defined
by the Oxford Dictionaries, pluralism is ‘a condition or system in which two or more states,
groups, principles, sources of authority, etc., coexist.’ Pluralism is often discussed within the
contexts of politics, religion, sociology and philosophy, among other arenas. In the context of