of enabling reconstruction. Such phase-based, data-driven methods have recently gained a
renewed interest (e.g. the review paper [7]), and it is from here that the methods described in
this paper begin.

The STFT of an AM-FM component or mode spreads the information relative to that mode
in the TF plane around a curve commonly called a ridge. Conventionally, the focus of signal
reconstruction has been on dealing directly with these ridges. In this paper, we develop an
alternative view by considering a mode as a particular TF domain which we term a basin of
attraction (an early attempt in such a direction can be found in [8]). In this paper, we focus on two
approaches. The first determines the ridge associated with a mode by considering either the local
maxima of the spectrogram in some predefined direction [9] or the zeros of the ridge points, in
relation to reassignment techniques [5,10]; the technique used to determine the basin of attraction is
derived directly from the method for ridge extraction. The second exploits the fact that the STFT of
a signal is fully characterized by its zeros [11] and then exploits the distribution of these zeros for
Gaussian noise to deduce an algorithm that computes the mode domains. Mode reconstruction
is then carried out by simply integrating the information inside these domains. Because the
zeros of the STFT and the maxima of its modulus can both be used for mode reconstruction,
the goal of this paper is to draw parallels and to highlight the differences between these two
approaches and show their relevance in noisy situations and where the number of modes varies
with time. One final remark to note is that the proposed approaches are expected to be beneficial
for synchrosqueezing methods (e.g. [12] for recent advances), because determining basins is a
prerequisite for reconstruction.

The paper is structured as follows. First of all, we introduce the basic analysis tools used for
TF analysis (ยง2), such as the STFT and reassignment coupled with a discussion of the zeros of the