
As Lyf =0, we know that 0 is an eigenvalue of L with eigenfunction gf, provided the state : =
has suitable decay at -+too. Thus in the scalar case n = 1, Sturm-Liouville theory tells us that the : a
number of unstable eigenvalues equals the number of zeros of gf. In particular, if y* is a pulse, : 2
meaning ¢*(x) — 0 as |x| — oo, it must have at least one critical point, and hence be unstable (cf. : XS
[2, §2.3]). However, when n > 1, the results of Sturm—Liouville theory no longer apply, and it is : _
not as easy to determine the stability of a pulse solution. : S

The question of pulse stability arose initially from a discussion of Turing patterns, which : s
are spatially periodic patterns that arise in reaction-diffusion systems when a homogeneous : BS
background state becomes unstable in the presence of diffusion. In all contexts in which such 1S

patterns are physically observable, the diffusion coefficients are not all equal (and in fact are quite
different in size). It has been conjectured that this is a necessary condition for the stability, and
hence observability, of Turing patterns. In many situations, the stability of a spatially periodic
pattern can be related to the stability of a nearby pulse. Thus, if one could prove that pulse
solutions are necessarily unstable when the diffusion coefficients are all equal, it would provide
a route to resolving the Turing pattern conjecture for periodic solutions.

In this paper, we establish the instability of pulse solutions when n > 1, under the assumption
that the nonlinearity satisfies G= VF for some F. In this case, the linearized operator L is self-
adjoint. This is not a setting in which Turning patterns arise, as the standard mechanism for their
creation—a stable, homogeneous state destabilized by the addition of diffusion—does not occur
in gradient systems [3]. Thus our result does not address the original Turing pattern conjecture,
but we feel it is interesting in its own right. Our proof exploits the gradient structure of G by