is certainly correct. It is rather simple to imagine new degrees of freedom that have squared
masses of the form M? = A? + xh’. If one integrates them out, the low-energy EFT will have
operators suppressed by a field-dependent cut-off A? + «h?. However, if in such a scenario,
one needs to calculate the potential at h > A, and then knowledge about the new degrees of
freedom is mandatory: they start to be relevant for the potential already at the scale A, not at
(A2 + «iPyl/?,

This low-cut-off problem of Higgs inflation is a serious one that has not been solved. Any
imaginable solution would require showing that new physics at A (either new perturbative
degrees of freedom or a strong coupling regime) does not affect the predictions of Higgs inflation
that are obtained by ignoring the unitarity problem.!° That result seems hardly possible given
the fact that whatever new physics shows up at (or below) A, it must be coupled to the Higgs
if it is to fix the unitarity problem. In fact, this way of looking at the problem sheds some light
on the ultimate reason for the unitarity loss. In the original Higgs inflation proposal the Higgs
plays two different roles: unitarizing (and Higgsing) the SM, (for which we know that the Higgs
couplings must be precisely those of the SM Higgs) and inflating. The first task works well in the
low-energy regime, where the couplings of the Higgs are SM-like, but fails beyond A, when the
couplings of x are no longer the SM ones. The second task works well in the plateau, precisely
because the couplings of x are exponentially suppressed there. This deformation of the Higgs
couplings from their SM values to zero in going from low energy to the plateau is the ultimate
cause of the unitarity breakdown of the EFT [119,129].

°For this to happen it is sufficient that / has interactions with other sectors of the theory (like fermions or gauge bosons or, in
the case of the SM Higgs, also the Goldstones that complete the Higgs doublet). Without such couplings, x would be a free
field and A dissapears from the EFT.