been required to manage the conditions demanded by the enzyme. For example, a common
feature of nearly all biocatalytic processes is the need to increase the concentration of reaction
components (reactants and products) when developing and scaling processes from the laboratory
to pilot and process plant. This is driven by the need to keep the volume of water to be
removed to a minimum, prior to product recovery. One solution, developed by engineers, is
to integrate the conversion step with the first product recovery step, using the established
process intensification principle of reaction-separation integration. In bioprocesses, this is most
commonly termed in situ product recovery (ISPR), although most schemes proposed use a
recycle loop (figure 3) so as to isolate the biocatalyst from the recovery operation [33-35]. Such
an approach can give significant process performance improvements of up to one order of
magnitude.

Likewise, most biological reactions are carried out in an aqueous medium. Despite the fact that
water is a benign reagent, this is far from ideal as described earlier, because many compounds
of industrial interest (reactants and products) are either poorly water soluble, or inhibitory
at low concentrations, or both. Among the strategies to overcome such challenges is reactor
compartmentalization, which involves separation of the reactor into two ‘compartments’. In one
compartment, the reactant is present at a high concentration, and in the other (the reaction
medium containing the enzyme) at a low concentration. This can be achieved, for example,
by choosing compartments which are different phases and exploiting the difference in affinity
of the reactant (and product) for the two phases. During the reaction, the product may also
partition back to the high concentration compartment. Such an approach has commonly been
used in aqueous-organic two liquid-phase biocatalytic reactions, originally proposed in the 1980s
[36]. Although there are some extra considerations required for effective operation (such as
ensuring sufficient interphase mass transfer), the system provides excellent opportunities to