phase slip based model [31,49,50]. The observed dissipation, in fact, is induced by phase slip
mechanism: at short times, for p < pc, the oscillation is only weakly damped; at larger times the
phase slip rate diverges and the system enters a dynamically unstable regime, characterized by
a strong damping. The value of p where the experimental data points deviate with respect to
the theoretical curve can be identified with the critical momentum pz, for the occurrence of the
dynamical instability [49,50]. By increasing the scattering length, the damping rate at short times
increases, as the phase slip nucleation rate increases, while pc decreases.
At the superfluid—MI transition, the critical momentum for dynamical instability is expected to
vanish. In figure 4 is shown the behaviour of p; as a function of a for two different lattice depths.
For increasing a, the measured p, initially decreases and then reaches a finite constant value.
The onset of the plateau can be interpreted as the critical scattering length a- to enter the
Mott regime for the commensurate regions of the system. Despite the strong inhomogeneity of
the systems, in fact, at sufficiently strong interactions the experiment observes a suppression
of the system dynamics: within each tube when a part of the atoms reaches the localization
condition n=1, transport is suppressed also in the remaining adjacent parts with different
occupation [50].
For each set of measurements with a given value of s, ac can be determined by means of a
second-order polynomial piecewise fit [50], which is justified by the phase slip based model [31,
33]. In the absence of an exact theoretical model to obtain the critical momentum to enter the
dynamical instability regime at finite interaction, in fact, it is possible to use a QPS-based model
to predict the interaction dependence of pc, which well reproduces the experimental behaviour
of pe with the interaction and shows a quadratic dependence of p¢ on dg [50]. This result justifies
the choice of the quadratic polynomial fit in figure 4b, where is shown that a, increases when
s decreases. Comparing experimental results, extracted for different values of the lattice depth,
with a theoretical analysis based on quantum Monte Carlo simulations an excellent agreement