
We illustrate this in table 1 where we use solar-metallicity single-star evolutionary tracks of the
Geneva group [6] to list the expected stellar parameters as a function of age. This is based upon
table 1 of [5], but uses models that are 20 years more advanced.

Massive stars evolve at (more or less) constant log L/Lo. As the star evolves, the star expands,
the effective temperature cools and the surface gravity decreases. The star becomes visually
brighter because the peak of the spectral energy distribution shifts to longer wavelengths as the
temperature cools. Thus, a 6 Myr old 25Mo star (spectroscopically, an O8.5 I) has an absolute
visual magnitude My = —5.0. This late-middle-age 25Mo star will thus be just as bright visually
as an zero-age main-sequence 60Mg (O3 V) star! Since 25Mo stars are significantly more common
than those of 60Mo, we expect these stars to dominate in any magnitude-limited sample. Indeed,
this fact is cited by Massey et al. [7] as the reason that the highest mass stars are conspicuously
absent in the H-R diagram shown in figure 1.

However, there is a far larger problem revealed by figure 1. We have so far identified only 64
O-type stars in M31, and 130 in M33 [7]. These numbers can be contrasted with those expected
given the number of WRs in these galaxies, 154 and 206, respectively [7]. (The fact that M31 is
a much larger galaxy than M33 but has fewer WRs is a reflection of its lower star formation
rate.) According to the Geneva single-star evolutionary models [8], there should be 15x more
O-type stars than WRs, suggesting that there should be 2000-3000 O-type stars present. Where
are the others? As the problem occurs for both M31 and M33 we believe this is not telling us
something profound about massive evolution. It is the hotter, hydrogen-burning stars that are
missing. Rather, these samples have been biased towards the later-type stars. We hope to rectify
this soon, using new data we are obtaining in the UV with the Hubble Space Telescope.