in Earth’s major climate transitions abound in the recent literature. For example, the pronounced
perturbations in atmospheric CO between the glacial and interglacial periods of the Quaternary
have been attributed to changes in Southern Ocean ventilation [16], which are argued to stem from
variations in the rate and structure of the overturning circulation in the region [17,18]. Similarly,
the present role of high-latitude regions in the uptake of anthropogenic heat and carbon by the
global deep ocean is rationalized in terms of the overturning circulation, whereby the bulk of the
uptake must be effected by water masses downwelling at high latitudes [4,19].

In this article, we show that there are major elements of high-latitude ventilation and renewal
of ocean interior properties that are controlled by processes occurring in upwelling layers, and
that are thereby decoupled from the overturning circulation. In §2, we pursue this demonstration
by revisiting the basic relationship between ventilation and overturning. A range of examples
of how the two phenomena do in fact differ in the high-latitude oceans are provided in §3,
and the climatic significance of these differences is illustrated in §4. Recommendations for the
representation of these processes in conceptual models of the ocean’s role in climate transitions
are offered in §5.

2. De-coupling high-latitude ocean ventilation and overturning: theory

The relationship between high-latitude ocean ventilation and overturning can be readily
illustrated by considering the idealized high-latitude ocean basin in figure 1. The basin extends
from a high-latitude landmass (or, equivalently, the North Pole) to an arbitrary mid-latitude zonal
boundary of length L, where this boundary is assumed to be zonally re-entrant or delimited by
continents, for simplicity. Like real-world high-latitude oceans, the idealized basin contains a
number of sloping isopycnal layers (indicated by variable n, and characterized by thickness h)