(a) Independent component analysis using time-frequency decompositions

The basic ICA model assumes that the s; and x; are random variables, i.e. they have no time
structure. In the basic theory, it is in fact assumed that the observations are independent and
identically distribution (i.id.), as is typical in statistical theory. However, it is not at all necessary
that the components are i.id. for ICA to be meaningful. What the ii.d. assumption means in
practice is that any time structure of the data is ignored and what is analysed is simply the
marginal distribution of the data over time.

Nevertheless, it is clear that the time structure of the data could be useful for estimating
the components. In ยง6c, we already used it to model dependencies between the components,
but even in the case of completely independent components, time structure can provide more
information. In fact, it is sometimes possible to estimate the ICA model even for Gaussian data,
based on the time structure (autocorrelations) alone, as initially pointed out by Tong et al. [65]
and further developed by Belouchrani et al. [34], among others (see ch. 18 of Hyvarinen et al.
[3] or Yeredor [36] for reviews.) However, such methods based on autocorrelations alone have
the serious disadvantage that they only work if the independent components have different
autocorrelation structures, i.e. the components must have different statistical properties. This is
in stark contrast to basic ICA using non-Gaussianity, which can estimate the model even if all the
components have identical statistical properties (essentially, this means equal marginal pdfs).

Thus, it should be useful to develop methods that use both the autocorrelations and non-
Gaussianity. In an intuitive sense, such methods would more fully exploit the structure present
in the data, leading to smaller estimation errors (e.g. in terms of asymptotic variance). Various
combinations of non-Gaussianity and autocorrelations have been proposed. An autoregressive