levels associated with the location and volume of new generation. Hence, planners will
require a strategic approach and determine a balanced portfolio of present and future network
investments in such a way that present, ‘here-and-now’ decisions (using stochastic programming
terminology) are sufficiently flexible to be adapted by further investment in the future when
information regarding new generation capacity becomes more certain. Under this paradigm,
flexible investment options and ‘wait-and-see’ investment strategies may be valuable to avoid
the implementation of network solutions that cannot be efficiently adapted to the unfolding
future [31-33].

Overall, the comparison among alternative solutions when planning electricity grids will
become increasingly complex since an extremely large set of options need to be objectively
assessed before implementation, including calculation of their performance in operational time
scales. In fact, as we will also demonstrate in this work, neglecting operational aspects, as
customarily done in traditional planning tools, will provide inefficient solutions in a low-carbon
smart grid context. Moreover, there will be a large volume of information that will become
available due to new monitoring technology and a large number of control variables across
voltage levels, electricity sectors/markets and energy vectors that need to be coordinated even
across borders (in the so-called whole-system approach). In this regard, time resolution will also
be critical to capture the effect of variable generation, the need for ancillary services (e.g. reserves)
and even the occurrence of complex stability phenomena that can jeopardize system security. In
addition, uncertainty will need to be recognized at various time scales in order to minimize the
risk of locking in to inefficient solutions [34]. Furthermore, there are also multiple objectives,
beyond economics, that need to be balanced, including security of supply, carbon emissions and
energy policy targets that should be met in the long term. Clearly, this creates a challenging
environment for modellers who attempt to identify optimal decisions in planning.