colour bar indicates the voltage difference AV = |V, — V2| (mV), averaged over the last three bursting periods. The black
(blue) zone corresponds to the zero voltage difference (complete synchronization). The dark grey (red) colour indicates anti-
phase bursting with the maximum voltage difference (approx. 40 mV). (a,b) Established phase locking from initial conditions
where the first cell is in the active spiking phase while the second is silent (a) and initial conditions close to complete
synchrony (b). (c,d). Zoom-ins of the corresponding top diagrams. Coexistence of synchronized and anti-phase bursting. The
scattered black (blue) regions (c) correspond to the onset of complete synchronization from the unfavourable initial conditions.
The synchronization effect is much more pronounced when the cells start from close initial conditions, as indicated by the
black (blue) tongue-shaped region (d). Parameters corresponding to points A (gin, = 0.0001; g. = 0.0001 (nS)); B Ginn = 0;
Get = 0.01 (N5)); C (Ginh = 0.01; ge = 0.01 (nS)); D (inh = 0.01; gi = 0 (n5)); E (Ginh = 0.02; ge = 0.01 (nS); and
F (inh = 0.01; ge: = 0.02 (nS)). (Online version in colour.)

the electrical coupling alone always impedes synchronization but the addition of inhibition
can yield complete synchrony. The fact that increasing the electrical coupling within the range
Se € (0,0.02) makes the synchronization solution more unstable is verified via the calculation of
the largest transversal Lyapunov exponent of the synchronous solution which is positive and
monotonically increases within the interval ge € (0, 0.02) (figure 3) (the details on the calculation
of the transversal Lyapunov exponent are given in appendix B). Note that, once the electrical
coupling becomes stronger and lies beyond this coupling interval, its repulsive force becomes
attractive and promotes synchrony, ultimately stabilizing complete synchrony at the threshold
value ge) ~ 0.18.

Figure 2c,d also demonstrates that inhibition alone can foster or destabilize complete
synchrony, depending on the coupling strength and initial conditions. When one cell is initially
in the spiking phase, and the other is in the quiescent inactive state, inhibition also impedes
synchrony and promotes anti-phase bursting in the absence of electrical coupling (see the dark