taxes and markets for tradeable carbon permits tend to increase the relative price of electricity
and gas heating. The incidence of such taxes is regressive because electricity and heating costs
constitute a relatively larger expenditure share for poor than for rich households (e.g. [21]).
This distributional impact and the ‘fuel poverty’ it may cause impose a political acceptability
constraint on how far democratically elected governments are willing go towards implementing
an efficient carbon price. Internalizing the carbon externality creates, as already noted, economic
surplus and with that comes the possibility of a Kaldor—Hicks improvement. In particular, if the
carbon externality were the only market failure in the economy, it would be possible to create a
compensation package (through the tax-transfer system) that would make all consumers better
off and avoid ‘fuel poverty’. However, as the tax-transfer system in itself introduces multiple
distortions in consumer and producer choices, the carbon externality is, in practice, not the only
distortion and it interacts with multiple others. Under such circumstances, there is no guarantee
that a package that would make everyone better off is, in fact, technically feasible (e.g. [22]).
Second, producers, in particular in the energy sector, are likely to lobby against environmentally
motivated regulation in general and carbon taxes in particular [23,24]. Again, it is possible to use
the tax revenue (or any initial allocation of tradeable permits) to compensate producers /polluters
[25,26] and in that way to reduce political opposition to the carbon price policy [27]. However,
using the revenue from a carbon tax in this way will make it even harder to devise a compensation
package that would neutralize some of the distributional side-effects of the policy.
The consequence of these political economy considerations is that, even leaving aside issues
to do with international trade and the global nature of the carbon problem, which we return to
in the next section, the actual carbon price policy that emerges as the equilibrium outcome of the
game between politicians, voters and lobby groups is likely to be substantially below the ‘efficient’
level (rt in equation (3.1)) and will not be sufficient to reduce emissions down to the set targets.
In principle, so long as there is some potential substitution away from carbon-producing inputs,