that water (ice) was perhaps not as prevalent in comets as once thought. As such, the idea that
cometary nuclei were like ‘dirty snowballs’ went a long way out of favour. Indeed, the thinking
switched to ‘icy dirtballs’ instead.

That comets include water as a major constituent is clearly established. But the relationships
between the water found in different comets (to each other), or between comets and other bodies
of the Solar System, require the extra dimension of isotopic measurements to understand the
genealogy. It was thus inevitable that an appropriate measurement from Rosetta was eagerly
anticipated. Ultimately, the result of hydrogen isotope measurements (made by the Rosetta
Orbiter Spectrometer for Ion and Neutral Analysis (ROSINA); see [6]) was something of a
surprise. This suggested that the D/H ratio of 67P was a factor of approximately three times that
of the terrestrial value, which seemed to confound a previously emerging view that Jupiter-family
comets (like 67P) should have the Earth-like values. In fact, for a number of reasons, it is beginning
to look like there is no obvious difference between the D/H values of water in Jupiter-family
comets and other Oort cloud comets. Rather, comets, in general, appear to have D/H values that
span a range of one to three times the terrestrial value, with the exact value being a reflection
of the distance from the Sun that the comet condensed [7]. The relevance for studies of the
origins of the inner planets is that, as things stand, the elevated D/H ratios in comets mean that
they could constitute only a relatively minor proportion of the water on these bodies, including
the Earth [8-10].

The noble gas (isotopic) compositions of 67P have the potential to offer further constraints
on the role of comets in the development of the surface layers of planets like the Earth. These
are difficult measurements to make and are, in fact, still being acquired. Initial results from
argon are given in Balsiger et al. [11] and confirm the fact that comets like 67P were not a