meteorite, which is very rarely the case. This particular meteorite was also opened not by sawing
with water or cutting fluid, but rather by hammer and chisel—again an atypical situation. The
Monahans meteorite is a regolith breccia consisting of light (lightly shocked) and dark (highly
shocked) clasts set within a grey, fine-grained, clastic matrix. The light lithology has witnessed
shock level S2 (light to moderate, 5-10 GPa), the grey matrix S3 (moderate, 10-15 GPa) and the
dark lithology S4 (high, 15-30 GPa) [12,13]. All lithologies are H5, which indicates moderate
thermal metamorphism to approximately 700°C [14]. We now know that this metamorphism
predated final aggregation of the rock. Upon opening the first sample in a clean room, we
noted that the grey matrix contains locally abundant aggregates of purple halite (NaCl) crystals,
measuring up to 1cm in size (though most are only a few millimetres at most; figure 1). We have
not previously seen megascopic halite in any extraterrestrial sample, although microscopic halite
has been reported in the Murchison CM2 chondrite [15], several ureilites [16] and some Martian
meteorites [17-20]. In fact, some of these prior reports had been considered to be rather amazing,
but there is no reason to doubt them. Backscattered electron imaging of Monahans revealed
that crystals of sylvite (KCl) are present within the halite crystals, similar to their occurrence in


Figure 1. Halite (blue) crystals in Monahans (a) and Zag (b) H chondrites. (Online version in colour.)

terrestrial evaporites [21]. The purple colour of the halite is probably due to exposure to solar and
galactic cosmic rays, and/or exposure to beta-decaying “°K in the sylvite [21,22], although that
hypothesis has never been verified. The presence of halite and sylvite solely within Monahans
grey matrix indicates that the halite formed or was deposited at the surface of the asteroid, in
the regolith, before final aggregation of the meteorite. However, its deposition must postdate
both thermal metamorphism and shock, because halite is such a brittle material that it could not