also be compared to observations of D for Ludox AS 40, published recently in [56]. Generally,
for both experiment and model, the larger the charged particle, the more the effective diffusivity
is enhanced by the inter-particle interactions. For the SM 30 and HS 40 dispersions, the model
diffusivity agrees reasonably well with the experimental data at intermediate volume fractions,
namely in the range from 0.2 to 0.4. Above this they differ noticeably: the model predicts a
decreasing diffusivity, approaching that of hard spheres (see also figure 3), whereas the data turn
distinctly upwards. For TM 50, the model and experiment substantially disagree, although the
observed diffusivity shows the same trends as the other experiments, increasing quickly at high
¢. These differences could suggest additional, or non-DLVO, interactions.

The modified Carnahan-Starling equation proposed by Peppin, Elliot and Worster ([9, eqn 17]
matched asymptotic solution between Carnahan-Starling at low ¢ and molecular dynamics
simulations at high ¢) does also turn back upwards at large volume fractions, and in fact diverges
near random close packing (¢ = 0.64). However, if this compressibility factor, Zp, is used in place
of equation (2.15), there is no noticeable difference in the response below about ¢ = 0.60, as
demonstrated by the dashed line in figure 8a. It cannot account for the observed increase in the
effective diffusivity of the colloidal particles in the range of ¢ = 0.4 to 0.6.

Instead, the increase in the collective diffusivity of the particles appears to be associated with
the onset of a macroscopic yield stress of the dispersions. In figure 8, we also indicate the volume
fractions corresponding to the first detection of structural anisotropy in our dispersions (i.e. the
first values of ¢ where y is noticeably non-zero, in figure 7). These concentrations mark the
point where the dispersions acquire both a yield stress and a finite shear modulus, and where
the individual particles will start being caged by strong interactions with their neighbours. The
unexpected increase in D occurs at, or shortly after, the particles start to behave together as a