handful of cells or molecules while (ii) delivering high throughput methods to enable statistical
methods. A solution to this conundrum is to fabricate droplets, hundreds of thousands of droplets
of picolitres to nanolitres in volume, which ideally would form in a monodisperse emulsion. Each
drop will contain a small amount of biological material, which will evolve independently of
the rest of the flock (as it is confined in an immiscible drop). Central to analysis purposes is
the need to form drops of identical size, such that the emulated microenvironment is relatively
invariant from one drop to the other. Such emulsions are obtained by destabilization of the interface
between the so-called dispersed phase and another immiscible continuous phase. In these passive
techniques, the flow field—originating from syringe pumps or from the channel's local slope—
promotes the natural growth of the most unstable mode of interfacial deformation. In turn, the
instability growth eventually triggers a singularity, typically yielding a topological change via
pinch-off, so that a drop is generated. Note that, while it is a singularity that generates these
drops, it is in fact the instability that provides the drop ‘blueprint’, deciding the size of each
droplet thereby ensuring the monodispersity of the emulsion. Surfactants, although not strictly
necessary to generate drops, are crucial in the process as they prevent the coalescence of newly
formed droplets—thereby stabilizing the emulsion and allowing for its packing in crystals such
as that shown in figure 18.

Similarly to some of the patterns discussed throughout this article, it is an interfacial instability
that sets the size of the droplets produced in the aforementioned microfluidics processes. This
instability therefore prescribes the wavelength of the resulting droplet ‘crystal’, and—as of
importance for this type application—warrants its virtually perfect regularity. This particular
feature is remarkable given the scale of the problem. Note that this kind of fragmenting instability

