physical basis, as argued by Klewicki and co-workers [52,53]: this position, in fact, should locate
the start of the region where the mean dynamics lose a leading-order viscous effect. This thus
ensures a correspondence between the aforementioned empirical observation and the classical
notion that the logarithmic layer is an ‘inertial sublayer’ in physical space.

Considering the streamwise variance profiles in inner scaling (figure 5a), the profiles
from the X-wire measurements in both the streamwise/spanwise and streamwise /wall-normal
configurations agree exceptionally well with each other and are in agreement with the single-
wire measurements, except for the lowest Reynolds number. This discrepancy might be related to
difficulties in the calibration at low velocities, say mean velocities below 5m s~!, in which case the
calibration needs to be accurate down to nearly 1 ms-! [55], which could not be ensured for the
in situ calibration of the boundary-layer probes. Although the streamwise variance profile exhibits
a mild second peak, the fact that the wire length in inner units L* increases up to 40 and 80 viscous
units for the boundary-layer and Dantec probes, respectively, excludes the possibility of drawing
any firm conclusions regarding this. By utilizing the spatial resolution correction outlined in [28],
it was found that the entire range covered by the X-wire measurements is virtually free of spatial
resolution effects. The near-wall data from the single wires, on the other hand, are affected and
the results from the correction scheme are shown in figure 5a as grey symbols. These corrected
results will not be considered quantitatively, but will qualitatively serve several purposes: first,
the question of whether the amplitude of the near-wall peak, located at yt ~ 15, increases with
Re in pipe flows (as it does for turbulent channel and boundary-layer flows) can be addressed.
The data show an increase in the amplitude with Re. This is further illustrated through the
dashed lines which indicate the prediction based on a compilation of canonical wall-bounded
flow data given through (w?)+ =3.63 + 0.65InR* [54] (alternatively, see [23], which is solely
based on channel-flow simulations and yields nearly identical values). Ignoring the lowest Re