topology, i.e. the set of controls where VF =0, permits assessing the ease of finding optimal
controls. Saddle points could exist on some landscapes, but they would only slow down a
search rather than stop it from proceeding to full optimization. For an application of a gradient
method in laboratory practice, see [4] in which the algorithm is applied to spectrally filtered and
integrated second harmonic generation as well as excitation of atomic rubidium. In this work,
monotonic convergence to maximum fidelity is seen within practical laboratory time scales. Work
on assessing the experimental relevance of saddle points has also been undertaken [5] in which
their impact was found to be negligible, as theoretically expected.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 summarizes the experimental
and simulation behaviour seen when seeking optimal controls in the domain of quantum
phenomena, chemistry and material science, and natural evolution. Importantly, this evidence
stands as a body of empirical facts on the favourable structure of landscapes that demands an
explanation, which we claim has a common foundation. Section 3 focuses on that explanation


in quantum control, wherein detailed and exacting mathematical models exist. Section 4 starts
with a brief summary of the situation in chemistry and material science, as well as evolution,
and the reader will be referred to the literature for specific details of these analyses. The most
challenging case of equation (1.1) covers such a wide range of behaviour that achieving a full
landscape analysis has not yet been achieved. But, we lay out the framework of conditions
for finding favourable landscapes in this broad class of systems and offer arguments that the
conditions plausibly hold. In this regard, we further offer a well-defined mathematical conjecture
to be investigated in the future. The evidence in ยง2 speaks to the validity of this conjecture across
varied domains, and, if further analysis expands the present support, it would offer a highly