recently shown that they accommodate strong local stresses resulting from strain incompatibility DNS
and compensate the difficulty of non-basal dislocation glide. The kink interior can be rotated by a iG
few degrees relative to the surrounding grain (figure 2), favouring the glide of basal dislocations. ik
The local deformation accommodated by a kink band may be important, as recently evaluated by .
digital image correlation on ice [3].

This study details many examples of kink band structures (figure 2). It shows, for the first
time, that the tilt SGBs forming the kink bands do not necessarily take the shape of a sharp
wall. Although rare, progressive misorientations may also occur. Multiple layers of basal edge
dislocations parallel to the tilt SGBs are needed to create such a structure. Some kink bands
crosscut the entire grain and create new path to accommodate the deformation imposed by the
local stress field. Kink band sub-structures are however more numerous close to grain boundaries
than within the grain (figure 2c). This is consistent with the fact that the strain incompatibilities
are stronger close to grain boundaries. When going deeper into the grains, the sub-structures
therefore tend to arrange in simpler shapes with reduced stored energy.

Isolated tilt SGBs and multiple tilt SGBs that result in progressive bending of the crystal lattice
(electronic supplementary material), or more complex mosaic sub-structures formed by multiple
tilt SGBs (grain P8, figure 3) are also frequently observed in our samples. All these sub-structures
may be formed by basal edge dislocations such as already hypothesized in [29,30].

Development of SGBs as observed in this study (tilt SGB, kink band, etc.) creates distinct sub-
grains that can be misoriented by a few degrees (figure 3 for instance). The arbitrary value of 7°
assigned here to distinguish between SGB and grain boundary is based on empirical observations
of various authors (see for instance [41]), but not supported by any energy calculation, as shown in