
First, an explicit three-dimensional FE model of a spalling sample, assuming pure linear elastic
material behaviour, was developed using the corresponding specimen geometry and loading
conditions of a real test. The elastic material parameters input in the FEM serve as perfect
reference to evaluate the performance of the experimental processing. The identification error
can be evaluated by simply comparing the identified stiffness parameters with the reference
values used as input in the FEM. The temporally resolved displacement fields were computed
in the region of interest that corresponds to the specimen surface framed by the camera in an
actual experiment. The FE displacement fields were extracted at corresponding nodal positions
including the edges of the sample. Then, sequences of deformed synthetic grid images have
been obtained by imposing the corresponding displacement fields on a reference image. The
procedure used for image deformation represents a critical stage in the simulation process due to
the fact that no numerical method is completely error free and in particular FE displacement fields
have to be interpolated onto imaginary pixel positions as discussed in [55,56] and can introduce
numerical errors that additionally influence the errors in the material parameters extracted with
the identification procedure. In the present work, sequences of deformed images were obtained
starting from a reference grid image simulating an acquisition of an ultra-high-speed camera.
The reference grid image is obtained from an analytical description of a periodical grey-level
function using a pixel supersampling technique and down sampled to the desired resolution.
Then, interpolated displacement fields are used to deform the reference image using a cubic
spline interpolation function with an image projection algorithm. Several reference images and
corresponding image sequences are generated, and used to examine the experimental parameters
and their influence on the identification procedure. Finally, the synthetic image sequences
obtained from the simulation are treated as experimental images to obtain the acceleration data
and material stiffness parameters which are compared to their reference values.