
150° W 140° W 130° W 120° W 110° W

Figure 2. Cross-sections of (a) dissolved Fe and (b) excess dissolved 7He in the hydrothermal plume dispersing west from
the East Pacific Rise near 15° S (data from [24]).

flow in the western Atlantic, coupled with robust along rift valley flows and tidal mixing. In
addition, it is likely that the off axis anomalies observed at TAG result from a significant amount
of ‘integration’ from multiple other vent sites that are known to exist, north of the section [6].
The approach followed to date is useful because appropriate TEI: *He ratios for hydrothermal
plumes above sites of venting can be coupled with global-scale hydrothermal ?He fluxes to drive
global biogeochemical models [48] or extrapolate and derive global TEI budgets [24,49]. That
approach takes advantage of the fact that primordial 5He trapped in the Earth’s interior leads to
enrichment of He/*He ratios in the mantle by a factor of approximately 8 relative to atmospheric
values [50,51]. These same enrichments are transferred through submarine venting to the oceans
where, because He is geochemically inert in the marine environment, enrichments in 3He can be
used as a conservative tracer of hydrothermal plume dilution and dispersion over long distances
[26]. By contrast, even those TEIs that may superficially mimic dissolved He distributions in
hydrothermal plumes (e.g. dFe, figure 2) do not act as such purely conservative tracers of physical
circulation. Instead, what may be operationally defined as ‘dissolved’ Fe in a hydrothermal plume
may be more complex in nature. For example, the US GEOTRACES GA-03 section crossing the
TAG hydrothermal field on the northern MAR found that more than 80% of the ‘dissolved’ Fe in
that dispersing plume was actually in the form of larger colloids (0.02-0.2 ym) and less than 20%
was in the form of smaller colloids and soluble Fe (less than 0.02 ym) species [49]. This same topic
has also been investigated through a series of more process-oriented studies, conducted close to