where B; is the biomass density (t km~) of prey group i; (P/B);, the production to biomass ratio
(yr!) of group i; Bj, the biomass density (t km~?) of predator group j; (Q/ B);, the consumption
to biomass ratio (yr?) of group j; n, the number of predator groups preying on group i; DCj,
the proportion of prey i in the diet of predator j; E;, the net migration (t km? yr7!) of group i
(emigration — immigration); Y;, the total catch (t km? yr) of group i; and EE;, the ecotrophic
efficiency of group i, i.e. the fraction of production of group i; consumed by its 1 predators or :=
grazers (in a balanced model, EE; <1). A value of 1 implies that all losses are due to predation : 3S
or grazing, while a value of 0 implies that group i is never consumed and all its mass losses are 12
due to natural processes unrelated to predation. Therefore, the expression (1 — EE;) refers to the nee)
fraction of the production of group i lost to natural mortality due to causes other than predation :
(old age, disease, etc.). a]
For the sake of simplicity, we assumed E;=0 and Y;=0 for all functional groups. The DN
assumption that E; =0 can be justified by the fact that the area of the Southern Ocean is vastly iG
greater than its perimeter (i.e. the length of the Antarctic Polar Front) and hence migration most [3S
likely has little effect on biomass on an oceanic scale. In addition, the difference in physical .
conditions between Antarctic and subantarctic waters probably prevents the former from acting
as a net biomass source or sink. The assumption that Y;=0 for all groups, while not strictly
correct, is a defensible approximation given that, on an oceanic scale, current fisheries remove
far less biomass than predators for all target groups (small mysticetes, krill and large demersal
fish) and no Antarctic fisheries existed in 1900.
Ecopath requires values of any three of B, P/B, Q/B, P/Q and EE as input to balance the
model and calculate the value of the missing fourth parameter. A diet composition must also
be entered for every consumer (electronic supplementary material, table S1). Once mass-balance
among groups has been achieved using the first ‘master equation’, mass balance is ensured within
each functional group using the second Ecopath ‘master equation’: