normalized concentration fields of the product B particles (cg /co) plotted in the xz plane. Although
there is overall qualitative agreement between the continuum and simulated concentration fields,
the continuum model systematically underestimates the simulated values. This discrepancy could
be due to the fact that the simulations are carried out at small but finite Péclet number, whereas
the Péclet number in continuum model is assumed to be zero; however, simulations of a reactive
Janus particle without propulsion (R4 = Rg) also show a similar discrepancy. Thus, the results
point to a breakdown of the continuum model on small length scales near the surface of the
particle where the catalytic reaction occurs. The continuum model accounts for reactions through
a boundary condition on the outer edge of the boundary layer and further assumes the fluid
flow field satisfies stick boundary conditions on the surface of the particle. Neither of these
conditions is fully valid when one examines the particle dynamics within the boundary layer
in the microscopic simulations of our small motors. This breakdown of the continuum model is
also reflected in the fact that the continuum and simulation values of the motor velocity differ.
The microscopic model accounts for both of these effects through the direct hard intermolecular
interactions between the fluid particles and the Janus motor. Figure 2b presents quantitative
comparisons of B particle concentrations and concentration gradients near the boundary layer
(rR) as a function of 6. Although the concentration fields obtained from the continuum model
and simulations present small differences as noted above, the concentration gradients responsible
for the motor propulsion are in very good agreement.

The motor moving with velocity V induces a flow field in the solvent. The characteristic
patterns predicted from the Stokes equations can be seen in figure 3a. Note that the fluid flow
field near the Janus motor does not have a dipolar form. Instead, it exhibits structure involving
more complicated fluid circulation. Fluid is pushed from the front of the motor and returns in the
lateral directions producing fluid circulation. Fluid entering from the side moves to the rear parts