pharmacies (as an over-the-counter medication), can be used as a blank matrix during method
development for tear analysis [43]. However, artificial tear solution contains mostly water and
salts (e.g. NaCl and KCl), while real tear fluid contains various organic molecules. In one study, an
artificial sweat solution containing ammonium chloride, lactic acid, urea, acetic acid and sodium
chloride dissolved in deionized water (pH adjusted to 4.7) was prepared [44]. In another report,
pigs’ hoofs were used as a substitute for human nail matrix [45]. In addition, in the final step of the
validation process, CRMs are normally required. However, as we mentioned above, nowadays, : =
only CRMs for hair are available. Alternatively, reference materials can be prepared in-house. For : 3
example, matrix-matched standards ina tablet form were prepared to enable quantitative analysis
by means of direct solid sampling with laser ablation ICP-MS [46]. mea)
An important point in the evaluation of MS results for quantitative analysis is to verify the :
presence of adduct ions and the occurrence of fragmentation during and after ionization (in- a]
source decay and post-source decay). In fact, in some cases, quantitative analyses are based on DNS
such adduct or fragment ion signals (single/multiple reaction monitoring mode). In these cases, area
one needs to select the adduct/ fragment signals that represent high sensitivity (ie. correlate with a)
concentrations of the original analytes) and high repeatability. .

3. Unconventional matrices in clinical analysis, toxicology and forensics

Because most of the unconventional matrices, highlighted here, are quite different in terms
of their main chemical composition and physical properties, the early stages of analysis
procedures have to be customized to specific matrices. However, the secondary samples
derived from the unconventional matrices are more similar to one another. Therefore, they
can be subjected to detection using very few standard techniques (especially, LC-MS and GC-
MS; see the electronic supplementary material). Below, we provide a brief summary of the