Figure 2. Schematic of the flow domain, in both plan view and cross section, illustrating the migration of the injected fluid : Rg
along the centre of the channel, displacing the original fluid downstream and to the outer parts of the channel. (Online version eri
in colour.) {=

sequestration. To this end, we build a model to describe the displacement flow that develops
in a porous channel with permeability and thickness that vary in the cross-channel direction. In
this situation, we expect the flow speed to be greater in the centre of the channel. This leads to an
evolution of the shape of the interface along the channel (figure 2) and informs a calculation of the
fraction of the cross-sectional area of a channel that is swept by the displacing fluid as a function
of time. On initial consideration, one might infer that, even if the displacing fluid is more viscous,
the interface between the two fluids will become stretched out, as the injected fluid bypasses
much of the original fluid and runs along the most permeable region of the channel. However,
in this work, we demonstrate that a fluid—fluid interface can, in fact, be partially stabilized if the
displacing fluid is sufficiently viscous. We extend the analysis to account for buoyancy effects
in an inclined system, and show that if there is a sufficiently large density contrast between the
fluids then the interface may be stabilized or destabilized by the buoyancy force. In summary, the
model provides a series of idealized solutions for the development of a topographically controlled
viscous finger.

Once we have built the model, we illustrate the phenomena with a series of simple analogue
experiments in which one fluid is displaced by a second immiscible fluid in a long, narrow
channel in which the gap thickness varies in the direction perpendicular to the flow. Finally,
we apply the model to provide insight into the displacement pattern of CO2 or polymer-laden
water injected into a channelled reservoir, inferring estimates for the fraction of the channel that
may be invaded by the advancing fluid and hence providing insights into the storage capacity of