the symmetry of the hydrodynamic patterns as seen in figure 5 in the case of a simple A + B> C
reaction [33]. Experiments are performed by replacing the salt and sugar solutions used in the
non-reactive case by aqueous solutions of an acid (HCl) and a base (NaOH). Their respective
density varies with the concentration of the chemicals. The Rayleigh-Taylor case is trivially
obtained by putting the denser solution on top. The reactive DD equivalent features initially a
less dense solution of NaOH above a denser solution of HCI, such that the species diffusing faster
(the acid HCl here) is on the bottom. The DLC case starts with a less dense solution of HCI on top
of the denser NaOH solution.

As said above, in the non-reactive cases, fingers extend on average the same distance above
and below the initial contact line between the two solutions of different composition and hence
different density. On the contrary, as seen in figure 5, all reactive equivalents feature asymmetric
fingers extending only towards the top. This is related to the fact that the acid-base reaction
consumes the acid A and the base B reactants to produce in the intermediate reaction zone
the salt product C of different density. This breaks the symmetry of the underlying density
profile, inducing a preferential direction growth of the fingers [33,34,40,43,44]. In this acid-base
experiment, fingers extend towards the top. Moreover, in the course of time, when a lot of product
Chas been produced, secondary instabilities can set in between the pure reactant A above C and
the zone of product C above the reactant B [33].

A general theoretical classification of all possible density profiles in the A + B—> C reactive
case shows that the situation varies depending on the relative contribution of each species to the
density profile (through their solutal expansion coefficient value) and on the ratio of diffusion
coefficients [48]. The three-variable chemical system is thus much richer than the two-variable
non-reactive equivalent.