porous matrix has a stabilizing effect on convection [83,84]. This is in a sense logical as this kind of
reaction consumes the species at the origin of the convective instability. In the most general case,
however, reactants are present in solution. Their concentration as well as that of the products
of the reactions contribute as well to the density distribution that controls the buoyancy-driven
instability. In that respect, we have shown that a general A + B > C chemical reaction can control
the convective dissolution of one component A into a host phase in which the reactant B is


dissolved [53,76,78,85]. From a theoretical point of view, we have classified the conditions for
the controlled enhancement or slowing down of the convection in the case where all species
have the same diffusion coefficients [76,85]. In short, the reaction is stabilizing when the product
is less dense than the reactants, as shown experimentally in the case of an ester dissolving in
an aqueous solution of NaOH [78]. The local decrease of density induced by the fact that the
product is less dense creates a non-monotonic density profile [71,76,78,85,86] with a minimum
that blocks the further progression of the fingers in the bulk of the host phase. On the contrary,
a destabilizing effect can be obtained when the product has a sufficiently larger contribution to
density than both reactants. We have experimentally demonstrated this case for dissolution of
gaseous CO} into aqueous solutions of hydroxide bases (figure 6) [53,76]. A striking aspect of
this control is the fact that the amplitude of the chemical stabilization or enhancement varies
with the nature of the reactant in the host phase and with its concentration. As an example,
convective fingers are more intense and appear earlier than in non-reactive systems as soon =
as CO) reacts with the hydroxide base to produce a denser salt. This effect is stronger for the : 3
series LiOH < NaOH < KOH < CsOH [53]. This effect can be understood on the basis of density 12
profiles reconstructed using the respective solutal expansion and diffusion coefficients of each mea)
reactant and related product. These results show that chemical reactions should not be neglected :