scarce, and so being an early adopter in these new value chains might lay the foundation for
repositioning the company, albeit with more modest returns. But those decisions are difficult to
make by executives who would not see the commercial benefit of such a move in their working
lifetime and who will not want to preside over a strategy that could be caricatured as ‘shrinking
to victory’.

These new activities are neither financially attractive enough nor a sufficiently good fit with
their core competences for major oil companies to pursue in place of the next big upstream
project. Current conventional fuel retail is not a high-margin business: only non-fuel products,
such as snacks and drinks, make a good return at retail stations. Large integrated oil companies
make their money at the wellhead because the price of conventional crude oil significantly
exceeds the finding, development and operating costs and the company retains part of this value,
despite the fact that most of it accrues to the relevant government. In the last decade, spiralling
capital costs have inflated big oil’s collective balance sheet leaving little scope to dilute returns
on capital employed by making significant investments on unproven technologies in nascent
fuel retail segments with only marginal net present value. Figure 10 shows that annual global
upstream investment has risen sixfold since 1999, broadly in line with crude prices.

Despite their fundamental role in providing fuels today, oil companies are not natural
participants in the new value chains. This aspect of the problem receives extraordinarily little
critical attention. It cannot simply be assumed that market forces will ensure that suitable
commercial participants will emerge with an integrated, fungible infrastructure to support all
the activities in new value chains at a sufficient scale to make a substantial impact on crude
consumption. However, a community of smaller players might appear, to service smaller and
well-demarcated local markets, for example, a single megacity. Such small-scale development