by magnetic measurements using the Maxwell relation and with the AT,q(T) directly measured
with a probe based on a Cernox temperature sensor [32]. The results obtained from the different
techniques, provided that they have been used with the proper measurement protocol and on
strictly the same sample, turn out to be consistent, as already demonstrated in [27]. The peak
values ASpeak and AT adpeak for a magnetic field span jj AH = 1.8T across the transformation on
heating are shown in table 4. The AT adpeak values reported in this paper are the highest of all
the Ga-based Heuslers [14,27,33,34], reaching almost 2KT~! for sample 82. For all the samples,
the measured ASpeak results lower than the maximum entropy change of the fully induced
phase, estimated from latent heat Assy *L/Tp. This means that a magnetic field of 1.8T does
not fully induce the transformation in those samples. We can observe in table 4 that there is
no close relationship between the ASpeak and the As¢y) values: for instance, S4 has the biggest
Asfuy = 14J kg! kK among the four samples but it shows a ASpeak lower than that of S2. This
fact underlines that further quantities characterizing the transitions play a role in determining the
As(T) and AT,4(T) of real materials. A large As¢y, which on the basis of the Clausius—Clapeyron
relation is proportional to the magnetization difference between the two phases, is not enough to
ensure a large ASpeak exploitable in thermomagnetic cycles. There is instead a correlation between
ATadpeak and (dT/\19dH); however also in this case none of the samples reaches the maximum
expected value of ATaq, calculated as AH - (dT/dH) (table 4).

The key to understand the behaviour of these materials is the transformation width (W): we
can observe in figure 4 that for all the samples the transition occurs over a large temperature range
rather than at a well-defined temperature, as expected in principle for a first-order transition.
We estimated W from the calorimetric measurements as the FWHM of the transformation peaks
(table 3), because it is difficult to exactly determine the initial and final temperature of the
transition. The quantity W assumes a relevant role in determining both As and ATag. We can