History may lend a helping hand. The goal of technology (from the Greek fechné, art in
the sense of ‘the art of (say) metal working’) is to get something done, irrespective of whether
we understand why it works. The goal of science is to understand. The ‘Eureka!’ moment for a
technologist is ‘It works!’; the ‘Eureka!’ moment for a scientist is ‘I see!’. The two, of course,
can feed off each other. However, this virtuous circle was not discovered until well after the
rise of modern science. One of the key characteristics that makes modern science ‘modern’ was
memorably summarized by Richard Feynman when he said, ‘what I cannot create, I do not
understand’. In a less memorable but nonetheless erudite analysis, the historian and philosopher
Amos Funkenstein argued that the transition from a ‘contemplative’ to an ‘ergetic’ (from the
Greek ergein, to do) mode of knowledge lies at the heart of the transition from medieval to modern
science [1]. The feedback loop made possible by the marriage of ‘knowing’ with ‘doing’ is what
gives us today’s high technology, with its breath-taking speed of change. However, all this does
not alter the fact that technology is, first and foremost, about getting things done without having
to first understand everything.


Thus, for example, the appearance of Dolly the sheep in 1996 was generally hailed as a
‘scientific’ breakthrough, but strictly speaking it was not one. Few, if any, of the hundred
or so steps involved in bringing Dolly to birth were understood at the time; many are
still not understood today. Therefore, Dolly was primarily a breakthrough in doing, not in
understanding. Crucially, like numerous other such breakthroughs in history, it left a trail of
scientific opportunities in its wake. The know-how (i.e. doing, or technology) involved in making
Dolly the sheep enabled a string of advances in understanding (i.e. science). In today’s world of
high technology, the mechanisms are in place to feed such understanding back into technology
almost ‘in real time’; so the virtuous circle is set, and the thing snowballs. Nevertheless, the first