orders from an initial density operator i (i.e. after the excitation pulse), one may approximate the
evolution operator with the Hamiltonian of equation (2.4) with a Trotter dynamics for a short time
step, say 5f < 1/3d,d being the dipolar strength. Thus every process that involves the spin labelled
as ‘0’, such as that described by If it or Ip qT, has an appreciably probability to occur in this time.
Some important features of the evolution can already be appreciated. First of all, an interaction
between two spins j and k requires a finite propagation time of the order 1/djx to become
significant. Second, the evolution in successive time steps develops a nested hierarchy of quantum
transitions. Thus, operators that reflect multiple quantum transitions arise simultaneously with
the growth in the number of spins in the coupled cluster. The product of K-spin operators describe
the modes in which K spins are interconnected, being able to generate numerous combinations of
MQGCs, depicted in the Liouville space (n, K) [17,35]. Further details depend on the Hamiltonian

and the selection rules. The key assumption behind the theoretical prediction resides in the fact Dos
that the probability of achieving a given combination of spin operators rendering a final state : =
depends only on the number of pathways leading to such state [17]. This can be assimilated to Sy
a form of a multidimensional Galton board [44]. This is justified in a system with an appreciable 2
number of interacting neighbours which remains more or less constant, where their interaction : &
strength fixes a definite time scale. Thus, one expects that specific interferences become irrelevant 22
and a probabilistic description is appropriate. Under this approach, the strength of each coherence : 8
in the spectrum is directly related to the number of elements of the density matrix with a certain : S
coherence order, given by a binomial distribution. According to this model, the spectral intensity : fea)
of a n-quantum mode S,, is given by a combinatorial formula which has a Gaussian shape for : Fea

large number of interacting spins K,
S(n,K) ce" /K, (3.6)