
Figure 6. Unpredictable and predictable in classical dynamics. Using both K = 6.00 and K = 6.02 in panel (a), an initial :
condition is propagated forward in time to t = 5. By t = 3, the two resulting trajectories with one denoted by a’ have a =
large separation, spanning the scale of the full phase space. However, the unstable manifolds of the two trajectories, shown in a
panel (6), are almost identical and cannot be distinguished in the figure. Their calculation is stable. Furthermore, the unstable {3
manifold projections into configuration space in panel (c) show that there are the same number of caustics and that they have :
barely shifted in location. aa)

manifold. A shorthand name for this strong structural stability in chaotic systems [28] is :8
manifold stability [16]. Similarly, the same conditions apply for the stable manifolds inversely :3
in time. In fact, this stability can be used to calculate heteroclinic orbits in a much more a
stable way than by using Hamilton’s equations. It suffices to take advantage of this structural
stability and the fact that heteroclinic (or homoclinic) orbits lie on stable and unstable manifold
intersections [52].

An important consequence of this manifold stability follows from the association of phase
space areas to classical actions [53-55]. Given that the unstable manifold is accurately constructed,
then if the endpoints of a heteroclinic (homoclinic) orbit are known, as typically happens
in semiclassical methods, so is its classical action by measuring the area. One would just
measure the area under the unstable manifold using the initial and final points as the limits of
integration. Not knowing the history of the orbit would cause no problems. Similar arguments
can be made for counting caustics by following the manifold and for obtaining the stability
parameters of the orbit. It turns out rather ‘conveniently’ that all the classical information
required for the heteroclinic (homoclinic) construction of the quantum dynamics given by
semiclassical theory is stably calculable even over propagation times where the specific orbits