know its state at a given moment of time. Just as in the case of causality, this category, too, if
may be designated as classical determinism, because one could in principle define determinism :&
differently. Once again, however, unless qualified otherwise, I shall by determinism refer to .
classical determinism. Determinism is sometimes also used in the same sense as causality, and
in the case of classical mechanics, which deals with single objects or a small number of objects,
causality and determinism coincide. Once a system is sufficiently large, one needs a superhuman
power to predict its behaviour exactly, as was famously explained by P. S. Laplace, who invented
the figure of Laplace’s demon as an image of this power.

While, however, it follows automatically that non-causal behaviour, considered at the level of
a given model, cannot be handled deterministically, the reverse is not true. The qualification is
necessary because we can have causal models of processes in Nature that may not ultimately
be causal. The fact that the causal models of classical physics apply and are effective within the
proper limits of classical physics does not mean that the ultimate character of the actual processes
that are responsible for classical phenomena are causal. They may not be, for example, by virtue
of their ultimately quantum nature. Nor, conversely, does the non-causal character of a model, for
example that of QM, guarantee that quantum behaviour is non-causal. It may ultimately prove
to be causal and, to begin with, amenable to a realist treatment. Rigorously, quantum phenomena
only preclude determinism, because, as noted earlier, identically prepared quantum experiments
in general lead to different outcomes. While individual quantum experiments are repeatable in
terms of the state of measuring instruments before they are performed, they are not repeatable
as concerns their outcomes. Only the statistics of repeated experiments are repeatable. It would
be difficult to do science without being able to repeat at least the statistical data our experiments.
provide. However, it is quite possible to do science if one can only repeat the statistical data thus
obtained. The lack of causality or, to begin with, of realism in the corresponding interpretations