This is an important point in the context of projects aimed at deriving quantum theory from : 5
fundamental principles. It opens the question concerning which postulates are considered : 5
‘natural’ or ‘reasonable’, or what constitutes a proper derivation. One might contend that it is 1p
not sufficiently first-principle-like to see the equation of QM as a postulate, and one might also : <
prefer a less mixed derivation of it than that of QM by Heisenberg or Schrédinger and throughout : 3
its history. So far, these attempts, such as those discussed in §5, have concerned QFDT. This might, aes)
however, be changing [34]. :8
In reflecting on Heisenberg’s conception of these quantities, one might observe first that, in :3
order to invent a new concept of any kind, one has to construct a phenomenological entity or a set iS

of entities and relations among them. In physics, one must give this construction a mathematical
architecture, defining the corresponding mathematical model, with which one might start, as
Heisenberg in fact did, and which enables the theory to relate to observable phenomena and
measurable quantities associated with these phenomena. Heisenberg’s invention of his matrices
was made possible by his idea of arranging algebraic elements corresponding to numerical
quantities (transition probabilities) into infinite square tables. It is true that, once one deals
with the transitions between two stationary states, rather than with a description of such states,
matrices appear naturally, with rows and columns linked to each possible state, respectively.
This naturalness, however, appeared or became natural only in retrospect. This arrangement was
a phenomenological construction, which amounted to that of a mathematical object, a matrix,
an element of a general non-commutative mathematical structure, part of (infinite-dimensional)
linear algebra, in effect in a Hilbert space over complex numbers, in which Heisenberg’s
matrices (‘observables’) form an operator algebra. One can also see it as a representation of an
abstract algebra, keeping in mind that Heisenberg’s infinite matrices were unbounded, which
fact is necessary to have the uncertainty relations for the corresponding continuous variables.