(figure 2c). Therefore, the naive formulation of the second law ‘heat always flows from hot to cold’
does not hold in general. Likewise invalid are versions of the zeroth law that claim that isolated
systems with equal temperatures should not produce a net heat flow between them when brought
into thermal contact. This can again be readily seen by considering, for example, the coupling of
an ideal gas to a system with oscillatory DoS as in figure 2.


(ii) Thermodynamics applies to equilibrium systems of any size.

It takes little effort to verify that equations (2.5)-(2.7) hold exactly for standard classical
ergodic Hamiltonian systems with an arbitrary number of degrees of freedom N. Similarly,
the canonical ensemble discussed below can be applied to (sub)systems of any size. These
mathematical facts are widely appreciated by many colleagues [9,12-15,18,19,21]—in particular
those interested in understanding DNA folding [24], microscopic information storage and
erasure [25] and fluctuation phenomena [26]—and yet remain ignored by a few others [23,27].
When judged objectively, there is no doubt that the application of thermodynamic concepts
to finite systems has considerably advanced our understanding of biophysical, colloidal and
quantum processes.° Compared with infinite-systems thermodynamics, a practical difference
is given by the fact that fluctuations generally play a (much) more important role in small
systems. The presence of fluctuations, of course, does not mean that it is forbidden to characterize
single DNA molecules thermodynamically; on the contrary, such fluctuations typically contain
important additional thermodynamic and energetic information that is usually lost in the
infinite-system limit. Therefore, it would seem wiser to focus on understanding better the
fluctuations of thermostatistical variables in finite systems, such as those of virial quantities on
the r.h.s. of equation (2.6), instead of discarding finite-system thermodynamics on purely habitual