Apart from the fundamental vibrational bands (vz at 15j1m and v3 at 4.2641m), CO2 shows
relatively strong absorption lines in the wavelength window between 2 and 31m, with typical
intensities between 10-77 and 10~!? cm per molecule. Nevertheless, this spectral region puts
some limitations arising from the available detectors, as already discussed above. Higher-order
overtone or combination bands can be found at smaller wavelengths, but their intensity decreases
by many orders of magnitude, so that their detection in the Doppler regime would require long-
path techniques, like cavity-enhanced absorption spectroscopy or cavity ring-down spectroscopy.
This is the case of the v + avo + v3 and 21) + v0 + v3 bands at 1.57 pm.

As a result of this discussion, it seems convenient to look for molecules with absorption
features in the spectral interval between 0.9 and 1.7m. In this respect, water is surely
advantageous because of the relatively small mass, which leads to large vibrational frequencies.
As a matter of fact, the spectral lines of the 2v; and v; + v3 bands occur at 1.4,1m, with an
intensity as large as 10-° cm per molecule. Being a light molecule, it also shows a larger Doppler
width, when compared with CO) and other heavier molecules with absorption lines in the
NIR. Furthermore, the hyperfine structure can be neglected, as magnetic dipole and electric
quadrupole effects do not occur. More particularly, hyperfine splitting should be produced for
transitions of the ortho type only by spin-spin and spin-rotation interactions [37]. Nevertheless,
these effects are so small that the resulting splitting is roughly four orders of magnitude smaller
than the Doppler width of the line, whereas the hyperfine structure is totally absent for para
transitions [38].

Acetylene is another good candidate, being a non-polar and linear molecule. Despite the
relatively large number of vibrational modes (five in total, namely the symmetric C—H stretch,
the symmetric C—C stretch, the antisymmetric C—H stretch, the antisymmetric bend and the