items of weights equal to the file size and values that represent the amount of data that the user
can download by the encountered SBS at different times. Iteratively, it places in the knapsack
a fraction of the item with the highest ratio of value/weight, until the knapsack becomes full.
Finally, the solution to the knapsack problem is translated to a cache placement.

We now evaluate the performance of the proposed caching mechanism using the measured
trace of mobility patterns released by the Wireless Topology Discovery project [51]. This trace
contains information from approximately 275 PDA users for an 11 week period between 22
September 2002 and 8 December 2002. Specifically, each active user records every 20s all the
WiFi access points (APs) that are detected by its device. In our evaluation, we consider a certain
subarea with dense AP deployment depicted in figure 5a, and substitute SBSs for WiFi APs. This
is a reasonable approximation for pico-cells, since the radius of the latter usually resembles that
of the WiFi APs (approx. 100 m). Importantly, owing to the fact that operators typically keep the
datasets of mobility across their base stations confidential, it would be difficult to acquire such
information. By contrast, the trace we use is publicly available online. In order to model the user
demand for content, we use a measured trace of YouTube requests from a study performed at
Amherst campus, University of Massachusetts, in 2008 [52]. The trace records for each request
arising from the (wired) campus network its exact time and a unique identifier of the requested
video. We use the trace data for the two consecutive weeks starting from 29 January 2008. The
number of requests for the 10000 most popular videos is presented in figure 5b.

Figure 6 depicts the performance of the proposed scheme (mobility-aware caching) for
different values of the delay deadline. This deadline refers to the time by which a user request
must be served by the SBSs. If the deadline expires and the user cannot recover the requested
file using the data downloaded by the encountered SBSs, then the MBS is triggered to serve the