The phonograph and the gramophone developed initially as a business tool throughout the last
quarter of the 1800s. They became a method of distributing audio as the new century dawned,
although no overall standards emerged for several decades.

Following the advance of wireless technology in the early 1900s, the ability to modulate
audio onto a radio-frequency carrier was demonstrated by Professor R. A. Fessenden in 1906 [3].
However, it was close to 14 years before this concept was realized as an excellent business
opportunity to sell wireless radio receiving sets to the public with similar development in the
USA and the UK. In early 1920, the UK General Post Office issued some experimental transmitting
licences to both British and American companies. However, apart from a few radio enthusiasts
listening to these experimental broadcasts, there was no real incentive for the public at large
to purchase a technically challenging product in its early form and, as these developed, a very
expensive item for homes that only a few could afford. This was compounded by the fact that
there was little of any general interest to listen to and certainly little to fund the provision of
specifically produced content. Given this, those wishing to manufacture radio sets and their
components applied to set up a company to produce and broadcast content that people may
want to receive, and this became reality in October 1922 in the form of the British Broadcasting
Company. The infrastructure was largely set up using many of the technologies and components
developed for the telephone communication industry of the day, with increasing developments of
its own as time went on. It is worth noting the pattern first seen here in the broadcast world where
manufacturers set up a business based on a new technology to produce content in order to sell
radios. In the UK, it took a further 4 years to realize the importance of this new communication
and entertainment tool before the British Broadcasting Company was converted into the public
service still known today as the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). However, this is another
