providing a total of six polarization and spatial modes. In MDM, the distinguishable spatial
data pathways are defined either by the particular modes supported by the fibre, or alternatively
orthogonal combinations of these modes. Since the modes all have significant spatial overlap,
the data signals are prone to couple randomly between spatial channels during propagation.
It is generally necessary to correct for the impact of this coupling at the receiver end. In
MDM, the individual modes accumulate differential mode group delays (DMGDs) during
propagation and likely also differential modal loss or gain due to mode-dependent performance
of the various in-line components (i.e. fibres, amplifiers, MUX/DEMUx, etc.). The energy
of a given data symbol launched into a particular spatial channel consequently spreads
out into adjacent symbol time slots as a result of mode coupling and modal dispersion,
rapidly compromising successful reception of the information that it carries. To mitigate these
linear impairments, DSP-based adaptive equalization using multiple-input multiple-output
(MIMO) processing is required at the receiver. MIMO signal processing is in fact already
widely used in current commercial coherent optical transmission systems to enable PDM.
Correcting for polarization mode-coupling as needed for PDM requires a 2 x 2 matrix MIMO
realization with four finite impulse response (FIR) filters. For an MDM system with M modes,
the respective algorithms need to be scaled to 2M x2M MIMO, requiring 4M? adaptive
FIR filters.

Interest in MDM in FMFs really took off at OFC 2011, as was the case for MCFs. Three papers
were presented on data transmission in 3MF supporting the LPo; and degenerate LP; modes.
Per-channel rates of 100 Gb s~! over the two spatial mode groups was achieved over 4.5 km [28]
and 40km [29], while 56Gb s~! signals in three modes were transmitted over 10 km [30] (the
quoted bit-rates include polarization multiplexing). The three-mode experiment [30] was the first
to demonstrate full use of all degrees of freedom afforded by the FMF (six spatial and polarization