industry, not just in emission control but for other applications, including fuel cells, embedded 22
photovoltaics, air scrubbers, self-cleaning surfaces, self-healing surfaces, functional glass, exhaust : 8
gas reforming and advanced sensors. As with others in this forum, she also emphasized the need : s
for catalysis in the area of CO2 utilization as well as the reduction of CO2 emissions by more : a
efficient processes. Finally, she described the important interplay between water and energy and : &

that the efficient use and purification of water will become increasingly important. Overall, she
stressed the important role that catalysis had to play in addressing the energy trilemma, ie. the
need for a sustainable, affordable and secure supply.

Johannes Lercher (Technical University Munich, Germany/Pacific North West National
Laboratory, USA) started his talk by re-emphasizing some of the points made by others about
the fact that the impact of changing our energy utilization must be in the fuels area and not
chemicals. While improvements and developments in the latter are important the overall impact
will be small. In addition, he discussed the relative importance of different energy vectors in
terms of carbon and energy conversion such as nuclear, photosynthesis to biomass, fossil fuels
and hydroelectric. He demonstrated that carbon supply is unlikely to be a problem and that most
of the carbon that the Earth has will remain in the ground. This led on to a discussion about the
need to change the way that the energy landscape is viewed and that the alternatives to the large-
scale refineries will need to be decentralized small-scale energy producers at the level of 100 MW,
for example a wind farm. Moreover, he discussed the need to convert that energy to an output
which is backward compatible such as condensed liquid hydrocarbons. Therefore, there is a need
for material to be converted by unconventional means which are currently uneconomic with the
source to be converted dependent on the location of the energy source. The material sources
described included methane, municipal waste and biomass. For this to be realized small, efficient,