and w, in particular on its time derivatives. This equation is solved with a modal approach by
using separation of variables and expressing the deformation w as bi-linear combinations of
the eigenfunctions of vibrating beams satisfying the plate boundary conditions in both x and
y directions. Each of these combinations represents a plate mode and it is associated with an
unknown amplitude depending on time. The number of eigenfunctions in x and y is taken to
be finite, say Ny and Ny, leading to N=Ny, ~Ny plate modes, then the modal expression of w
is introduced in equation (2.5) and the resulting equation is projected along each of the N plate
modes. This leads to a linear ordinary differential (in time) equation system for the N unknown
amplitudes of the modes.

For simplicity purposes, we have here used a ‘thin-plate’ theory (e.g. Kirchhoff—-Love plate
theory). However, nothing prevents the use of a more complicated model valid for thick plates
(e.g. Mindlin-Reissner plate theory). In fact, the DD strategy is independent of the chosen plate


theory. Hence, the mentioned strategy can be applied also in combination with higher order
plate theories, as long as the plate model gives both the displacement and the displacement
velocity back to the fluid solver and receives as input from it the fluid pressure on the plate.
When the DD strategy is used, and the three-dimensional solver is used in the fluid region
containing the structure, p is obtained by solving the fluid-structure coupled problem, i.e. it is
affected by the plate elastic behaviour. In more detail, the structure represents a solid deformable
interface immersed in the fluid domain. This interface is identified at any instant by a level-set
function, similarly to what is done for the gas—water interface. Inside the body, ‘guard’ cells
[9] are introduced which can be considered as a sort of ‘ghost cells’. In those cells, the velocity
component vy (P) normal to the body surface at point P is made equal to —uN(Pmirror) + 2UN wall,