extended by White et al. [8,9]. They describe a cognitive model based on quantum probability :
(QP) and empirical evidence, which suggests constructive effects for simple affective evaluations, =
so that simply articulating how one feels about a positively or negatively valenced stimulus 3
also leads to constructive effects. Note that we call QP the rules for how to assign probabilities a
to events from quantum mechanics, without any of the physics. This work, while promising, :
raises some key questions, notably regarding the robustness of the finding and the extent to fA
which it generalizes to other kinds of stimuli. In this paper, we briefly review the White et al. Dw
[8,9] research, including the QP principles that underlie the model, before describing the novel :
empirical directions that are the present focus. :3

(a) The constructive effects of affective evaluation

In White et al.’s [8,9] experiments, fictitious adverts for insurance and mobile phones were created
that had positive or negative content. Either the valence of images was confirmed in a pilot study
or images were selected from the Geneva Affective Picture Database (GAPED) [10], a database
that contains images whose valence has been externally validated. In a within-subjects design,
participants were asked to view two images, which were displayed sequentially in either a
positive and then negative order (PN condition) or vice versa (NP condition; figure 1). In the
double rating condition, participants were asked to give a simple affective rating for the first
image in the sequence and were then asked for a rating for the second image. In the single rating
condition, they saw the first image but provided no rating, instead moving on to view and rate
the second image. The experiment was designed to address the following question: Would there
be a difference in ratings for the second image between the single and double rating conditions?

The results of three experiments, reported by White et al. [9], showed that there was a difference