been inferred from remote sensing techniques above the ice-sheet surface. As recently as a decade : =
ago, an inventory of Antarctic subglacial lakes [4] documented lakes that had been surveyed with D8
traditional geophysical techniques (airborne radio-echo sounding and active seismic surveys); : 3
these techniques rely on imaging water bodies by exploiting the strong contrast in physical : =
properties between ice and water (acoustic properties in seismic methods; dielectric properties : =
in radar methods). The most recently discovered lake of this type was identified in a 2013- : 8
2014 survey of the Ellsworth Mountains [6]. The 2005 inventory lakes, and lakes detected by e

radar following that compilation, are mainly located on the ice-sheet plateau (figure 1). These
have never been observed to change significantly, and are thus thought to be stable over long
(multi-decadal to millennial) time periods (e.g. [15]).

A second type of lake is detected by virtue of the fact that its volume is changing on sub-
decadal scales. A series of papers in 2005-2007 showed clusters of large (1-10 m) signals of height
change over time on the grounded ice sheet, which were interpreted as the surface expressions
of subglacial water transferring from one area of impoundment to another. When water transfers
occur, the surface of the ice responds: it rises as excess water enters the lake, or falls as it leaves
it. This surface-height change signal can be detected by repeated satellite measurements, e.g.
interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR), [16] satellite radar altimetry [17] or satellite laser
altimetry [18]. The lakes discovered through surface-height changes exhibited volume changes
on sub-annual to decadal time scales and thus were considered ‘active’ hydrological features.
Observing changes to these active subglacial lakes over time through analysis of surface-height
anomalies has, therefore, provided a transformational new dataset to help understand how the
Antarctic subglacial water system evolves on a variety of time scales and how those changes affect
ice dynamics.