overextension and underextension, as mentioned in §1. In our opinion, it expresses a fundamental
mechanism through which concepts are formed. Therefore, we can briefly say that the traditional
overextension and underextension reveal aspects mainly related to concept combination, but this
non-classical effect captures aspects related to concept formation in its foundation, independent
of meaning. This aspect can be supported with a further statistical test. Indeed, we computed the
p-values corresponding to a t-test for paired samples for means for Ix and Iy, X =A, A’, Y =B,B’.
We found that I4 versus Ig gives a p-value of 0.85, and I’, versus I, gives a p-value of 0.08, hence
it is very reasonable to maintain that the difference between I4 and Ig and between I, and Iz
is due to chance. On the contrary, I4 versus I’, gives a p-value of 3.47 x 10~®, I4 versus I, gives
a p-value of 3.25 x 107), Ip versus I’, gives a p-value of 2.44 x 1071, and Ig versus I, gives a
p-value of 1.69 x 10715. Hence, it is very reasonable to maintain that the differences between [4
and I',, between I, and I, between Ip and I’,, and between Ig and I are not due to chance. What :
can we infer from this result? Probably, it is the fact that a concept or its negation is measured that :=

makes a difference in the values of these functions, which again supports our claim that the non- Sy
classical mechanism we have identified is more due to conceptual formation than to conceptual 2
combination. D&S

The still much higher p-value of I4 versus Ig (0.85) when compared with the p-value of [4 22
versus Igy (0.08) could be due to A and B being ‘completely finished and stable in their formation : Sg
as a concept’, while A’ and B’ are more momentous and hence fragile in their concept formation’— DN
we plan to investigate these aspects further in the future. For example, if A and B were taken to : a
be ‘adjectives’ rather than ‘subjectives’ as concepts, their negations might be less fragile. : S

The results attained here could already be considered as crucial for claiming that the violation