recall, which do not belong to the family of Kuhn trees. Those include decision problems in which,
as in the example of figure 1, an information set may contain nodes which are met in sequence.
We will call these Isbell trees. This classification is equally important in team decision problems,
where it refers to the availability or unavailability of information about what other team members
do or know. This three-way taxonomy of decision problems—perfect-recall Kuhn, imperfect-recall
Kuhn, Isbell—is the one we will use.

We now add a framework for talking about the different kinds of signals to which members
of a team might have access. In the simplest case, there is one signal per information set. But this
is restrictive and does not fit well with cases where the different nodes in a given information
set could be widely separated from one another in space or time. In such cases, it may be more
appropriate to think of distinct but perfectly correlated signals operating at different nodes within
the same information set. In fact, other assumptions on signals are possible that still preserve the
indistinguishability of nodes in an information set. In particular, the signals could be i.i.d., but,
more generally, we can require them to be exchangeable.> Figure 2 depicts an information set in
some tree. Figure 3a is the simple case where one coin is tossed at this information set and the
choices can be pegged on the outcome of the toss. Figure 3b depicts two coins, one per node,
where the coins are exchangeable (which includes the case that they are i.i.d.).

Within information sets, there are some clear considerations of indistinguishability. We also
need to consider what are the appropriate conditions to impose on signals across information
sets. We will want to know how these conditions, too, affect the potential performance in a task. To
uncover these capabilities, it becomes important to specify the physical embodiment of the signals

2The paper is self-contained in that we will describe later the (little) physics the reader will need. Interested readers can refer