We first show that the team’s expected pay-off with classical signals is at most 0. To see this,
start without signals. Observe that the only way for the team to get the + pay-off (with positive
probability) is if it chooses Up? at information Iz and Up, at information set 14. But then, to avoid
the —M pay-off on the right-hand side of the tree, it must choose Downg at 13. Then, to avoid the
upper —M pay-off on the left-hand side, it must choose Up; at I). Then, to avoid the lower —M
pay-off on the left-hand side, it must choose Down at I4, not Ups as we supposed. It follows that
the +m pay-off cannot arise unless at least one —M pay-off also arises. Moreover, it will arise with
the same probability. Since M > m, we have shown that the team’s expected pay-off is at most
0. Now use proposition 5.2 to conclude that the team’s highest possible expected pay-off in any
extended tree with classical signals is also 0.

Next, consider the signal structure of figure 8. Here,  =2/(1 + 5) and is the inverse of the
Golden Ratio. One can check that our indistinguishability condition is satisfied (use the fact that
? + © =1). Now consider the following strategy profile for the team in the extended tree: (i) at
Ii, choose Up; after H; and Downy after Tj; (ii) at 12, choose Up2 after Hy and Downy after T2;
(iii) at Iz, choose Up3 after H3 and Downg after T3; (iv) at I4, choose Up, after Hy and Down, after
T4. The team’s expected pay-off from this strategy profile is t x @° x m> 0. An improvement in
the team’s highest expected pay-off is achieved.


By proposition 5.2, we know that the signal structure of figure 8 cannot be realized classically. | 10 |
(This can also be verified directly; see appendix C.) It can, however, be realized quantum
mechanically [21]. The physical mechanism involves the creation of what is called an entangled “3
pair of particles. The basic set-up is that two particles—two photons, for example—are prepared 1B
ina special state and sent off on different trajectories. Each particle then enters a detector, placed <