There are three assets X, Y and Z, and, at each point in time, each trader needs to sell one of the [4
three assets (chosen with equal probability) against the other two. When Ann and Bob want to : =
sell the same asset, they do better trading on separate markets, in which case they get pay-offs of : g
0 (a normalization), rather than on the same market, where they would directly compete against : g

each other and get pay-offs of -M. When Ann and Bob want to sell different assets, they do better
trading on the same market since each increases the demand for the asset the other wants to sell.
This yields both a pay-off of +i, as compared with 0 if they trade on separate markets. We assume
m <M. (This inequality makes sense since, even if they sell different assets, they still compete in
purchasing the third one.)

If M is sufficiently large compared with m, any good pair of strategies for the traders must
preclude their selling the same asset on the same market. In fact, the following is optimal for the
traders. Ann goes to market 2 only when she needs to sell asset Z, while Bob goes to market 1 only
when he needs to sell Z. (By symmetry, we can replace Z by X or Y, and market 2 with market 1.)
To calculate the resulting expected pay-off to the traders, note that there are nine equally likely
cases according to whether Ann wants to sell asset X, Y or Z, and similarly for Bob. In four of
these cases, the above strategy profile secures a pay-off of +m, and otherwise 0. So, the expected
pay-off is é x m. This is under the assumption of no signals, but, since the scenario corresponds
to a Kuhn tree (with imperfect recall), we know from proposition 5.2 that the addition of classical
signals cannot improve the baseline pay-off.

Now bring in quantum information resources. We give the traders access to an entangled
quantum system on which they can make certain measurements and thereby condition their
choices. Specifically, we assume that the system consists of two particles, one per trader. The