of each of the proposed methodologies depends on the peculiarity of data, such as stationarity, : 3S
length of the series, the variation of the parameters, the level of noise contamination, etc. In :3
all these cases, global aspects of the dynamics can be somehow captured, but the different :8
approaches are not equivalent in their ability to discern all relevant physical details. Bandt & :3
Pompe [31] introduced a simple and robust symbolic method that takes into account time order 1s
of the TS.

The pertinent symbolic data are (i) created by ranking the values of the series and (ii) defined
by reordering the embedded data in ascending order, which is tantamount to a phase space
reconstruction with embedding dimension (pattern length) D and time lag t. In this way, it is
possible to quantify the diversity of the ordering symbols (patterns) derived from a scalar TS.
Note that the appropriate symbol sequence arises naturally from the TS, and no model-based
assumptions are needed. In fact, the necessary ‘partitions’ are devised by comparing the order
of neighbouring relative values rather than by apportioning amplitudes according to different
levels. This technique, as opposed to most of those in current practice, takes into account the
temporal structure of the TS generated by the physical process under study. This feature allows
us to uncover important details concerning the ordinal structure of the TS [23,32,33] and can also
yield information about temporal correlation [34,35].

It is clear that this type of analysis of a TS entails losing some details of the original
series’ amplitude information. Nevertheless, by just referring to the series’ intrinsic structure, a
meaningful difficulty reduction has indeed been achieved by Bandt and Pompe with regard to the
description of complex systems. The symbolic representation of TS by recourse to a comparison
of consecutive (t=1) or non-consecutive (t >1) values allows for an accurate empirical
reconstruction of the underlying phase space, even in the presence of weak (observational and