neocortex and hippocampus often generate synchronized, rhythmic patterns of activity that
vary with behavioural state [1]. Synchronization between cortical neurons is therefore an
astonishing collective phenomenon in the brain. Indeed, one of the main experimental challenges
in neuroscience during the last 30 years was to demonstrate that distributed neural populations
in the visual cortex process information in a synchronized way. The visual cortex is composed
of a large number of areas, which contain neurons that are tuned to different visual features. :
Temporally synchronized activity of individual neuronal pairs within the visual cortex has been =
investigated in many laboratories since the early 1980s [2-6], most often with the motivation to [=
reveal functional coupling between cells. This idea is in general agreement with the hypothesis {8
that neighbouring cells with similar functional properties are tightly coupled to form a neural :
group. The concept that whole groups of neighbouring neurons could discharge synchronously Da
in response to the same visual object has been attracting neuroscientists’ attention for many years Dw
[7]. Evidence has in fact been obtained that many neurons within a column of cat visual cortex :
can engage in a state of highly synchronous activity in response to an optimally oriented moving :3
light bar [8,9]. :3

Interestingly, local field potential (LFP) oscillations can only be observed when many neurons :
fire in synchrony, since otherwise the individual neurons’ electric fields would simply cancel
out. Thus, the occurrence of high-frequency LFP oscillations demonstrates that local synchrony
is generated with high temporal precision, although the LFP arises from extracellular dendritic
fields rather than spike firing. Synchronization across neurons has been extensively investigated
in the brain, where it has been hypothesized to underlie neurocognitive phenomena such as
binding [10], temporal coding [11], spatial attention [12] and other higher cognitive functions
[13]. As neural integration is usually understood as the algebraic representation and summation
of excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, which govern the potential for firing in the