high-impact events. With respect to the processing of uncertain information, we found that :
while many participating organizations had the capacity to do their own risk analysis most [4
still require providers of climate information to perform some form of data interpretation. DN
Indeed, a majority indicated that their organization liked to receive information in a way that =
facilitated yes/no decisions. As our participants were characterized by their interest in climate [G&
forecasts, it is possible if not likely that this need for interpretation by providers would be even ,
more pronounced in a wider sample. The large proportion of participants indicating that their
organization preferred information formats that facilitate yes/no decision-making is in line with
findings that a preference for cues that can be used to signal if/then responses has been observed
among both expert [40] and non-expert [56,57] user groups. Indeed, where a large amount of
decision information and competing demands exist, reliance on simple cues—rather than seeking
to process all available information—is in keeping with the principles of bounded rationality
[58]. However, the fact that preference for this format was associated with lower tolerance for
uncertainty is potentially concerning. While decision aids that take into account users’ tolerance
for false alarms can be developed to provide recommendations for action based on climate
forecasts [50], if these tools reduce the salience of forecast uncertainty, then they may create a
false sense of certainty; potentially leading to maladaptive decision-making [8,9] and a loss of
trust in providers [9,10]. Indeed, one recent experimental study has found that decision aids
providing explicit information about the likelihood of false alarms can increase trust and elicit
better decision-making relative to formats that simply provide recommendations for action [9].
Hence, when creating decision aids incorporating information from climate forecasts, providers
must test their materials to ensure that the existence of uncertainty is not obscured [18].
In terms of current users’ perceptions of understandability and usefulness, our results show
that there is a mismatch between the perceived usefulness of seasonal and interannual forecasts,
and how easy to understand current users find them; with seasonal and interannual forecasts