unknown unknowns (Parker & Risbey). :
Two other articles provide a detailed quantitative analysis of the implications of uncertainty
surrounding climate change. Risbey ef al. [38] analyse the historical odds of winning various bets
on the evolution of global temperatures and examine how those odds are likely to change in the
future. Risbey et al. find that since 1970, the two successful betting strategies are (i) extrapolating
the observed trend and (ii) cherry-picking the warmest trend that has occurred in the last 15
years. No other strategy has been successful during the period of modern global warming, and
any climate ‘sceptic’ would have lost virtually all bets since 1970. Risbey et al. also examine the
likelihood of winning bets based on future trends predicted by the CMIP5 ensemble of model :
runs under an intermediate emissions scenario (RCP4.5). They again find that the warming bets =

win almost 100% of the time until late century, when warming begins to stabilize in response Sy
to emission cuts. The certainty of ongoing greenhouse warming, and the fact that it now rivals 2
natural variations on decadal scales, means that bets against greenhouse warming are near certain aed
losers. Furthermore, as noted by Risbey et al., the widespread failure of climate contrarians to a
bet against greenhouse warming, despite arguing that it must be small, reveals their underlying : Ss
preferences and shows that they diverge from the public rhetoric. : s

Finally, the article by Freeman et al. [26] recognizes that the world is already on the path to : s
significant expected damages from climate change. The analysis examines the benefits that accrue : 5

when uncertainty is reduced through a climate signal—such as recorded global temperatures—
that provides a better understanding about the evolution of future temperatures, and thereby
permits better adaptation decisions. Such adaptation decisions (e.g. deciding on the height of new
sea walls) benefit from improved knowledge of how the climate is evolving. Crucially, this benefit