is expressed in the time of arrival can reduce the potential for wishful thinking. For example, the : Ss
projection above can be re-expressed as ‘average global surface temperature will rise by Y degrees, : &
and this will occur between years X1 and X2’. In other words, the projection emphasizes the when : s
rather than the if. Ballard & Lewandowsky demonstrate that when uncertainty is expressed in this : s

manner, people perceive the consequences of climate change to be more serious, and show greater
endorsement of mitigative action.

The article by Taylor et al. [60] further explores the issue of effective uncertainty
communication, by examining the needs of organizations for effectively using climate forecasts.
Climate forecasts are starting to outperform historical averages in predicting European winters
and are therefore becoming more widely used in organizational decision-making. However,
uncertainty arises from the probabilistic nature of the forecasts, and the fact that models do not
have perfect reliability. This uncertainty can make forecasts difficult to use, in particular, because
people exhibit ambiguity aversion (cf. [61]). Furthermore, there is a lack of empirically supported
recommendations for effectively communicating uncertainty. The authors therefore conducted a
user-needs survey with representatives from organizations with an interest in seasonal and inter-
annual climate forecasting. They find that although users generally perceive forecasts to be useful,
they also find them difficult to understand. Users therefore prefer forecasts to be presented in a
format that they are familiar with. Moreover, the majority of users preferred to receive information
that facilitates yes/no decision-making, but few organizations had clear statistical guidelines for
making such decisions.

The article by Lorenz et al. [62] also focuses on increasing the usability of climate information.
This article focuses particularly on the visual representations of information. The authors