these soils. Because we do not include changing vegetation or inputs, this cannot be seen as an
ecosystem C feedback, but only that aspect of the carbon—climate feedback that is due to the direct
response of soil C to changing soil temperatures. Although vegetation is likely to change, its effect :
on the C budget is unclear as increased soil C losses from priming effects (changes in microbial =
activity and decomposition rates due to increased inputs to the soil) may counteract increased C [=
inputs [51]. a

A key aspect of the PInc-PanTher decomposition trajectories, which can be seen in figure 3, :
are the divergent results between surface soils, where decomposition increases are moderate aa)
and more geographically uniform, versus deeper soils, where fractional decomposition losses are tw
highest at the retreating permafrost margins and zero in the areas that remain permafrost. Overall, iY
such a pattern leads to losses that are primarily from shallower soils. A crucial question is whether :3
this is a realistic signature of permafrost C losses, i.e. whether C losses are in fact faster in thawed [8
soil layers (taliks) that do not seasonally refreeze than in surface soils that still freeze seasonally :
even with warming, and whether a large contribution comes from lengthed thaw periods in
shallow soils. Experimental and field observations of the C dynamics of retreating permafrost
are needed to address this. On longer time scales, we may expect the contribution from deeper
soils and initially permafrost layers to overtake shallower soils in importance, as suggested by
the increasing role of deep soils beyond 2100 in Koven ef al. [52].

For all scenarios here, we used the CCSM4 model as the atmospheric forcing for future
climate anomalies. CCSM4 has an Arctic amplification (the ratio of high latitude to global surface
temperature change) of 1.7, which is relatively low in the CMIP5 ensemble, in which the Arctic
amplifications range from 1.5 to 2.8 [20]. Climate models that have higher Arctic amplification
should in principle have higher permafrost loss rates per unit global temperature change, and so