The specific characteristics of impact-induced waves make it rather difficult to use numerical tools
that are very suitable for earthquake- and even in some regards landslide-generated tsunami
waves. The wave generation process and the very early wave dynamics is highly nonlinear
and complex. Not even very high order wave theories are capable of reliably describing the
early wave evolution. Therefore, the wave generation and early wave evolution must be part

of the model framework that considers hypervelocity impacts and cratering processes. Only a : =
relatively small number of codes exist that are capable of dealing with hypervelocity impact : Sy
processes and only a very few of them have been used to study meteorite impact processes. : 2
For a summary of so-called hydrocode modelling, see, for example, [43] and references therein. : &
Although hydocodes are able to simulate generation, propagation and inundation of impact- 22
induced tsunami waves, this approach would be computationally too expensive to cover the ne]
whole sequence of processes. In fact, only a few examples of hydrocode modelling are published : ie
where the propagation of waves was tracked as far as 100 times the diameter of the projectile : =
(e.g. [37-40]). For the most likely scenario of a relatively small object of a few hundred metres in [8

diameter wave propagation can be simulated only to a distance of tens of kilometres with such
an all-in-one model approach.

The multi-scale nature of impact-induced tsunami waves suggests the usage of different
models appropriate to deal with the specific processes on different spatio-temporal scales, such as
generation, propagation including shoaling and run-up, separately. Crawford & Mader [41] were
the first to employ such a hybrid approach by combining CTH hydrocode modelling of crater
formation with the ZUNI code for wave propagation simulation. Following this approach, Weiss
et al. [44] coupled iSALE hydrocode modelling with a Boussinesq-type wave propagation code