would allow us to predict the further evolution of the model. We argue that the quote ‘modelling
for insight, not numbers’ makes an essential point here [102]. We have to conclude that the global
linear forcing feedback model may be of limited value to estimate quantities like the ECS of the
real world, or at least we have to be more careful in understanding and quantifying in which range
of forcings, timescales and climate states a simple model with a constant feedback parameter can
be adequately used. But irrespective of whether the numbers tell us much about the real world,
such simple models are, and have been, valuable tools to understand fundamental properties of
the system [103].

For example, the fact that the transient response simulated in models (or observed, e.g. as the
twentieth-century warming), particularly on short timescales, becomes less sensitive to ECS at
high sensitivities, and that it is, therefore, harder to constrain the upper bound on ECS [67,68,104]
has, in fact, been noted decades ago with simple energy balance models. Wigley & Raper [105]
pointed out ‘that the response of the climate system to high-frequency forcings such as volcanic
eruptions and the seasonal insolation cycle must be virtually independent of the sensitivity. High-
frequency information is therefore of little value in trying to estimate, empirically, the climate
sensitivity. This is an obvious, but little appreciated result’. Wigley & Schlesinger [106] wrote that
‘the observed global warming over the past 100 years can be shown to be compatible with a
wide range of CO2-doubling temperature changes (ECS)’, and as a consequence, ‘it may be very
difficult to determine AT, (ECS) from observational data’.

Recent evidence from observations and models that the climate system will continue to warm
for a constant forcing, the commitment warming [65,66], can be traced back to Siegenthaler &
Oeschger [107], and Wigley & Schlesinger [106], who noted that ‘at any given time, the climate
system may be quite far removed from its equilibrium with the prevailing COz level’, and