compresses the dynamic range of the response compared with that of a linear system. Even
though the stiffness of some physical systems, as well as the damping, can change with amplitude,
it is interesting to consider the effect of nonlinear damping alone, since this can provide some
clear physical insights and is useful in a number of practical applications. It is shown that, if
the nonlinearity of a system is confined to its damping, the backbone curves of such a system
are vertical straight lines and so the system will not exhibit any jump or bifurcation phenomena.
This significantly simplifies their analysis. The analysis of systems in which nonlinear damping
is proportional to the nth power of velocity is considered, initially for sinusoidal and then for
random excitation. In both cases, the system is analysed in terms of an equivalent linear damper,
whose value changes with excitation level. Although the focus of this paper is on systems with
positive values of both linear and nonlinear damping, which are thus stable, it is noted that
the amplitude response of an unstable system, with negative linear damping, can be limited by
positive nonlinear damping, as described by Rayleigh [1]. In fact, amplitude stabilization of such : =

instabilities occurs in the human cochlea, where the resulting limit cycle oscillations are known Sy
as spontaneous otoacoustic emissions [15]. 2

For sinusoidal excitation, it is seen that such an equivalent linear damper can be obtained aed
by retaining the fundamental term in a harmonic balance analysis, which is equivalent to _
the describing function approach used in control engineering. Closed-form solutions for the : Ss
equivalent linear damper can be obtained, in terms of the driving level, for a single-degree-of- DNS
freedom system will low-order nonlinear damping, but iterative methods need to be used for : =
higher order nonlinearities or in MDOF systems. For random excitation, it is shown that an error : s

minimization technique, a series truncation approach and an equivalent power method all give