by the TO-designed coating mimic those associated with the original parabolic surface. We can
set up equivalent apertures for each of these reflectors (parabolic and flat) and stipulate that these
two distributions be identically the same, in accordance with the TO strategy. The Jacobians of
the transformation provide a relatively easy way to determine the parameters of the medium in
which we must embed the flat reflector so that it delivers a performance that is identical to that
of the parabolic reflector. But there are several problems we must address before we can use this
design in practice. Not unexpectedly, these problems are similar to the ones we have encountered
earlier with the TO designs, namely that it is plagued by difficulties in realizing the desired low-
loss, low-dispersive and wideband materials—especially, when we must use MTMs—with which
to cover the surface of the flat reflector. In addition, we need to ensure that the thickness of the
coating is small, so that the resultant flat reflector (with coating) has a low profile, which was our
principal motivation of the flat reflector project to begin with. To the best of our knowledge, a
systematic procedure for designing such thin coatings has not yet been developed. In fact, such
surfaces that are also known as reflectarrays, are almost always designed to match only the phase
of the reflected field, rather than to control the amplitude distribution of this field in its aperture.
Incidentally, reflectarrays are inherently narrowband in comparison to the parabolic reflector, at
least when they are fabricated by using metasurfaces, as they almost always are.

We now show that this problem of designing a surface with specific reflection characteristics
can also be cast in terms of the scattering matrix formulation. Because the metasurface is backed
by a perfectly electrically conducting plane, the output port is short-circuited; hence, we only
use a one-port description of this surface and deal with only the $1). To design the metasurface
in the context of TO, we stipulate that the 51; for the metasurface be identical to that of the
original parabolic reflector, in terms of both magnitude and phase. However, the FT approach
only requires that the field incident from a spherical source which impinges upon the metasurface