philosophy depended not on individual moments of illumination in men of genius, but on
the ability to take infinite pains in gathering facts, and could therefore be made by anyone.
Designed to facilitate the inquiries of contemporary and future experimentalists, Priestley’s
scientific publications bristled with observations and experimental details, without much concern
for the formal niceties of his theoretical constructions and hypothetical explanations. These
sentiments induced Priestley to include in ‘Observations’ [1, pp. 253-256, 257-264] and his
other major scientific publications, separate sections dealing with ‘Miscellaneous Observations’
and ‘Appendices’ consisting of notes and letters from members of a growing community of
practitioners, or ‘Queries, Speculations and Hints’ for others to pursue [10, vol. 1, pp. 258-285;
18, Part II, pp. 109-112]. The importance Priestley placed on policing the boundaries between
‘facts’ and ‘hypotheses’ is evident in the penultimate section of the fifth volume of Experiments
and Observation on Different Kinds of Air [16, vol. 2, pp. 325-365], published in 1781, where he took
the unusual step of providing a 40-page ‘Summary View of All the most remarkable Facts in
this and the four preceding volumes’. Priestley here compiled the more significant and agreed-
upon ‘general propositions’ concerning the sensory properties and modifications of various airs
(and other relevant substances), while carefully avoiding any mention of ‘hypotheses’ concerning
their internal chemical composition and underlying reaction mechanisms responsible for these
properties and their transformation.

4. The chemical revolution and the ‘doctrine and airs’

Priestley’s lasting reputation in science rests, in large part, on his discovery in August 1775
of an air, by heating mercurius calcinatus per se (mercuric oxide (HgO)), in which a candle
burned brighter and a mouse lived longer than in common air [10, vol. 2, pp. 33-101, vol. 3,
Ppp- xxii-xxxi, 41-45; 18, Part III, pp. 164-175]. While Priestley called this air ‘dephlogisticated air’,