
To complete the story in this model, we should characterize the beables associated with
the photon. For f<t,, this is unproblematic: the photon follows the incoming light ray
5(X — x, — t +t). It also follows from our rules that, given a final detection of the photon along
the outgoing light ray 6(X — x, + t — f;), the second possible outgoing light ray 6(X — x2 + t — f2)
is empty of beables, as the observation of the first light ray takes place outside the future light cone
of points on the second. It would be tempting, then, to say that the beable description implies that
the photon follows the first outgoing light ray. However, our rules imply a discontinuity precisely
along this light ray. The only relevant measurement outcome (until f close to T) is the observation
of the photon at the end of the light ray, and this is lightlike rather than spacelike separated
from points along the ray. Strictly speaking, given that we consider the limit of spacelike surfaces
approaching the ray, this observation never enters into the calculation, so that the beables describe
only |a|? of the photon energy-momentum following this ray. The fact that other final state
observations (of the system, and of the absence of the photon from the second possible outgoing
light ray) become spacelike separated for f close to T does not rescue this part of the picture, as
we ultimately take the limit as T— oo. We tentatively interpret this feature as an artefact, due
to the parsimony of this model, as if many photons were interacting with the system, from both
directions, we would expect some final measurement outcomes to be spacelike separated from all
possible outgoing rays. This point is illustrated in our next model.

(b) Model 2

To test these intuitions a little further, we consider a symmetric two photon version of the above
model. The initial system wave function is as before. Now, though, there are two incoming
photons, one from the left, which arrives at x; at time f,, and the other from the right, which