some subclasses of the model are provably weaker than the full model, by showing that systems :s
from these subclasses cannot simulate the full model? : =

The most notorious such subclass is called temperature 1. Despite its esoteric name, it models
a fundamental and ubiquitous form of growth: asynchronous growing and branching tips in
Euclidian space where each new tile is added if it matches on at least one side. Since temperature 1
binding does not require matching glues on multiple sides, it is called non-cooperative binding.
A reasonable analogy is to think of cooperative binding as context sensitive, and non-cooperative
binding as context free. In 2D, it’s like snakes on a plane.

Recently, it has been shown that that the temperature 1 abstract Tile Assembly Model (i.e. non-
cooperative binding) is provably weaker than the full model [45]: in particular, temperature 1
tile assembly is not capable of simulating arbitrary tile assembly systems. In fact, there is a very
simple cooperative tile assembly system, that uses cooperative binding on two sides in merely
one location, that cannot be simulated by any non-cooperative tile assembly system. This is the
first fully general negative result about temperature 1 that does not assume restrictions on the
model nor unproven hypotheses. The proof uses a simple pumping lemma (called the window
movie lemma) for self-assembly that gives a sufficient condition to modify assembly sequences
and swap parts of assemblies. It is used to fool any claimed non-cooperative simulation of
cooperative binding. This lemma has since found use elsewhere and indeed has been generalized
in various ways [49-53]. An interesting aspect of the negative result is that it holds for 3D non-
cooperative systems; they too cannot simulate arbitrary tile assembly systems. This seems quite
shocking, given that 3D non-cooperative systems are Turing-universal [39]! So in particular, 3D
non-cooperative systems can simulate 2D (or 3D) cooperative systems by simulating a Turing
machine that in turn simulates the cooperative system, but this loose style of simulation ends up