Figure 3. Snapshots from the experimental realization of a distance sensor [38]. (a) The source: 1 mm thick silver wire placed [=
2mm away from the sensor; (6) the source was 12 mm away. The firing numbers are given next to the corresponding channels. [a

from one excitable region to another if the barrier is narrow. Obviously, a wide barrier is
non-penetrable. However, there is a range in barrier widths for which spike penetration is a
complex process depending on the angle between spike wavevector and the normal to the barrier
boundary. A spike with wavevector normal to the boundary can cross a wider barrier than a
spike that propagates parallel to it [22]. It was observed that for a specific range of barrier widths,
a frequency transformation occurs, i.e. only a certain fraction of spikes reaching the barrier is
able to cross it [35-37]. The most stable transformation returns the signal at half of the original
frequency, but the other firing numbers were also observed.

The fact that a firing number is very sensitive to all parameters of the wave train can be used
for sensing distance between the source of excitation and a sensor formed by a set of channels.
Experimental results are shown in figure 3 [38]. The medium is composed of an excitable part
(dark—non-illuminated) separated from four excitable channels by a non-excitable gap (light—
illuminated). The channels operate as a distance sensor. If the gap width is properly selected,
then by comparing the frequency of signals in the channels one can extract information on the
distance from the source of periodic excitations located somewhere in the excitable part. If the
source (a silver wire seen in the left part of the photo) is far away, then the angles between the gap
boundaries and wavevectors of excitation rings expanding from the source are almost the same
for all gaps. As a result, we observe similar frequencies of signals in all channels. If the source is
close to the set of channels, then angles are significantly different, and so are the frequencies of
transmitted trains of spikes. As a result, the structure of excitable channels can sense a distance
from a source of excitations without measuring it.