is that significant rates of growth can occur at very low levels of supersaturation only in the ,
presence of crystal dislocations.

Parts III and IV of BCF consider the theory of the equilibrium structure of crystal surfaces
and its impact on the rates of crystal growth. In Part III the focus is the equilibrium structure
of steps and the size and shape of island nuclei required for growth on a perfect crystal surface
without dislocations. As part of this discussion they also introduced a two-dimensional version of
Wulff’s theorem, which states that the shape of a crystal in equilibrium is such that the distances
of the faces from the centre of the crystal are proportional to their free surface energies per unit
area. This theorem had been stated but not proved by Wulff in 1901 [17], and had been subjected
to various attempts to provide a formal proof, notably by von Laue in 1943 [18]. BCF note in an
appendix that there was ‘no satisfactory proof of the three-dimensional Wulff theorem’ even then,
but do offer a proof of the two-dimensional case. In fact papers published soon afterwards by
Conyers Herring [19,20] are generally attributed with addressing the three-dimensional problem,
and certainly broaden the range of applications of the theorem.

The final part (IV) of BCF addresses the suggestion of Frenkel that a significant thermal
equilibrium concentration of steps on an otherwise flat surface should occur in the same way
as that of kinks on steps, thus ensuring step growth can always occur even on low-index surfaces.
Specifically, they address the question of the structure, and particularly the roughness, of a crystal
surface as a cooperative phenomenon. They remark that ‘it seems to be characteristic of cooperative
problems that the thermodynamic functions are non-analytical functions of the temperature; they
thus possess discontinuities or infinities in themselves or their derivatives’. Specifically, they
found that there is a well-defined transition temperature in the surface roughness parameter.
Their results show that for close-packed surfaces in which atoms have many nearest neighbours