of creating fluorescent OLEDs approaching 100% power efficiency (neglecting outcoupling
losses): it has been demonstrated that the rubrene/PTCDI (N, N’-ditridecylperylene-3,4,9,
10-tetracarboxylic diimide) heterojunction device produces yellow electroluminescence with low
efficiency (EQE approx. 0.1%) and extraordinarily low turn-on voltage (approx. 1 V), which is
slightly below half of the rubrene excited singlet state energy [37]. Considering the large energy
deficit (more than 1 eV), the recombination is obviously unable to produce an emissive state of
rubrene directly in such a device, which led the authors to postulate a rather doubtful Auger-
like two-step injection mechanism to explain the nature of electroluminescence. However, the
observed electroluminescence can be readily understood without invoking any new mechanisms
if one notices that the recombination leading to the triplet state of rubrene is not forbidden by : =

energy, and, furthermore, the rubrene triplets readily undergo TTA to generate the emissive Sy
singlet state. In fact, by using a similar heterojunction in doped OLEDs resembling highly efficient a
OLEDs [29], we have been able to construct red-emitting devices operating relatively efficiently aed
at similarly low voltages and demonstrate that their electroluminescence is dominated by the 22
delayed component that shows all typical tell-tale signs of TTA (T. D. Pawlik, D. Y. Kondakov [4
2009, unpublished data). Even though the TTA in a device of this type cannot produce more than : ie
50% of the excited singlet yield, these singlets may be produced at approximately half the voltage, : =
thereby demonstrating that it may indeed be possible to construct a fluorescent OLED comparable [83

to phosphorescent OLEDs in terms of power efficiency.

Unfortunately, realizing devices with the substantially enhanced TTA requires molecules
specially designed to be capable of altering the spin-statistical ratio in TTA. An example of such
a molecule is rubrene, which is compatible with the red fluorescent devices as an EML host. No