cool a liquid quite far below the bulk melting temperature before solidification occurs; this occurs
because of the need to overcome the excess energy of the solid—melt interface of a solid nucleus,
which can only be achieved by a substantial degree of undercooling. The problem is the three-
dimensional equivalent of the surface island nucleation problem in crystal growth addressed by
BCF. By contrast, it is generally not possible to superheat a solid above its melting point. The
reason seems to be that melting can occur at the surface without having to overcome this energy
barrier, and a very simple thermodynamic argument supports the idea that melting of a surface
(i.e. of the outermost several atomic layers of a surface) could occur below the bulk melting
temperature. In particular, melting at a surface replaces a solid-vacuum interface by a solid—melt
interface and a melt-vacuum interface, but the sum of the free energies associated with these two
interfaces, ysm + Ymv, is commonly less than that of the single solid-vacuum interface, y (or ysy).
Melting may, therefore, be energetically favoured at a temperature below the bulk melting point,
despite the fact that the free energy of the melt phase is slightly higher than that of the solid ([49]
and references therein). Evidently, in this simple picture, the thickness of the melted layer would
increase as the temperature gets closer and closer to the bulk melting temperature. Of course, this
simple argument ignores any possible interaction between the two interfaces.

Note that surface melting is distinct from surface roughening. In surface roughening, it is
the occupation of lattice sites at different heights above the surface that becomes disordered; in
surface melting, it is the lateral order (and ultimately also the order perpendicular to the surface)
that is lost. Direct experimental evidence for the existence of surface melting was first achieved
through the use of medium energy ion scattering (MEIS—using H* ions at energies of approx.
100 keV), initially from Pb(110). MEIS provides a measure of how many atoms are displaced from
the ordered lattice of a solid, and the results showed clearly a very pronounced enhancement
