main polarities in the photosphere forming an active region. A systematic study to investigate this
dependence of the heating scale height on the model set-up has not yet been performed, though.

While for most of the three-dimensional models only the horizontally averaged heating rate
is shown to drop with height, this is also true for individual fieldlines [73]. Therefore, the
exponential drop of the heat input is really also applicable to one-dimensional loop models,
as has often long been assumed [71]. Another factor for the average drop of the heat input is
that most fieldlines emerging from the photosphere will close to nearby opposite polarities, and
will thus reach only to small heights, while only fewer fieldlines will make it up into the upper
atmosphere. However, this alone does not account for the average drop of the heat input but has
to be considered along with the drop of the energy input along individual fieldlines.

The fact that the heating scale height is just between the pressure scale height of the
chromosphere (well below 1 Mm) and the corona (50 Mm at 1 MK) leads to the consequence that
the energy input per particle will peak somewhere in the transition region from the chromosphere
to the corona (figure 3). This has been found to be the case in models where the near-surface
convection is treated self-consistently [44] as well as in cases where the horizontal velocities in
the photosphere are simply prescribed by a convection-like driver [3].

This location of the maximum energy input per particle in the middle transition region has a
major consequence on the dynamics of the transition region plasma. As pointed out in a three-
dimensional model [44] and hinted at before by a one-dimensional work [74], this leads to the
cooler material being pushed down and the hotter material expanding into the upper atmosphere.
Consequently, this provides an explanation for the observed transition region redshifts and the
coronal blueshifts [75,76]. Looking at flow profiles along fieldlines or loops in three-dimensional