If the 1922 paper brought the two strands of Fisher’s work together, it was not quite as smooth
a merger as he had initially hoped. The abstract for his presentation of the paper to the Royal
Society in November 1921 (Nature, 24 November 1921) read ‘statistics obtained by the method
of maximum likelihood are always sufficient statistics’. However, by the time the paper actually
appeared in print, in 1922, this certainty had evaporated: ‘we require a method which for each
particular problem will lead us automatically to the statistic by which the criterion of sufficiency is
satisfied. Such a method is, I believe, provided by the Method of Maximum Likelihood, although
I am not satisfied as to the mathematical rigour of any proof which I can put forward to that
effect’ [1, p. 323].

Fisher was immensely creative, so perhaps it is not surprising not all of his ideas are mutually
consistent. Recall John Maynard Keynes, when accused of being inconsistent, remarking that : =
when the facts changed he changed his mind. Of Fisher, Efron has said: ‘Fisher usually wrote as :
if he had a complete logic of statistical inference in hand, but that didn’t stop him from changing :
his system when he thought up another landmark idea’ [13, §4.3]. nee)

The 1922 paper is a long one, some 60 pages, and not all of it is of great interest to modern eyes. :
The second half of the paper is concerned mostly with Pearsonian families of curves, the method [4
of moments and discrete distributions, and has had less lasting impact. DNS

Fisher’s paper of 1922 provided elements for a solid framework for statistical inference, and a
these elements are still central to practical applications. However, ideas develop, and it should i
not be seen as surprising that the framework Fisher sought to develop nearly a century ago has .
been elaborated, criticized and indeed challenged over time. Scientific progress is often a matter
of identifying the cracks in concepts which manifest themselves as ambiguities and confusions,