begin with as its low symmetry meant that any interpretation of the results at the time would
have been unfeasible). This would mean that the diffracting X-rays would consist of a single
wavelength. Initially Sommerfeld turned down Laue’s request to use the Institute’s personnel to
carry out the experiment, and so Laue had to resort to having this done in secret (Ewald once
told me that Friedrich and Knipping actually had to steal Roentgen’s own X-ray apparatus in
order to carry out this trial experiment). Following the first successful demonstration of X-ray
diffraction, it is reported that Sommerfeld threw a celebratory party, but failed to invite Laue! Such :
was the atmosphere in the institute at that time. The successful observation of a diffraction pattern :=

appeared to support the wave theory for X-rays. However, Laue, who was later awarded the 1914 Sy
Nobel Prize in Physics, had great difficulty in explaining the pattern of spots obtained, because 2
he was inexplicably wedded to the idea of fluorescent X-rays being the cause of the diffracted aed
radiation. This was despite the fact that Friedrich and Knipping had obtained perfectly good _
diffraction patterns from a crystal of diamond, where fluorescence would not have been expected: : Ss
in retrospect, it is surprising that Laue did not realize that this obviously demonstrated that the : s
diffraction was not due to secondary radiation at all. Moreover, in trying to explain all the spots, : s
and those that were in fact missing, Laue had also assumed incorrectly that, for instance, in the : &

case of ZnS, the molecules were situated at the corners of a cube and that up to five distinct
wavelengths might be involved.

It was later that year that the 22 year old Lawrence Bragg showed how to explain the
diffraction patterns in terms of reflection from planes of ZnS molecules occurring in a face-centred
cubic array, and more importantly from the point of view of the present discussion that the
diffraction occurred using an incident white (continuous wavelengths) X-ray beam. His famous