the coronal loops. This dynamical scenario involves numerous random reconnection events
embedded in the turbulence. This system was shown to exhibit heating rates that were on the
lower limit, but compatible, with the heating rate required for closed coronal magnetic regions:
considering photospheric velocity fields of magnitude 1 km s~!, convective eddies of size 1000 km
and loop lengths of order 10000-50000 km, Rappazzo et al. [16] found the strongest heating
rates to occur when the axial magnetic field was the strongest, and the turbulence weakest,
with an RMS heating in such a case of about 1.6 x 10° ergcm~*s~!. In the fully nonlinear stage
at statistically steady state the Poynting flux, ie. the energy that is entering the system for
unitary time, balanced on time average the total dissipation rate. As a result, there is no average
accumulation of energy in the box, beyond what has been accumulated during the linear stage,
while a detailed examination of the dissipation time series (figure 1b) shows that the Poynting
flux and total dissipations are correlated, with lag, in a statistical sense, but decorrelate around
dissipation peaks. The fact that the heating rate tends to be at the lower level of what is required
for active regions has lead some researchers to focus on similar models with forcing at the lower
boundaries set at higher frequencies [17]. The alternative is that realistic physics might require a
slightly more realistic model for the coronal turbulence, allowing for example for both footpoint
motion with some net value of helicity, and therefore a further constraint on the turbulence (i.e.
inclusion of the injection not only of energy, but of another invariant quantity such as magnetic
helicity), or, alternatively, including the energy source of emerging flux. Be that as it may, the work
of Rappazzo et al. was fundamental in discussing the types of turbulent regimes that might be set
up ina coronal loop system.

For a long time, it was assumed that the current sheets forming in such simulations were
essentially Sweet—Parker (SP, see the next paragraph) current sheets, being created and destroyed
in about one nonlinear time. However, this created a problem when considering the limit of large