ability to use the divergent beam photographs to calculate the most precise values for the unit cell DNS
lattice constants and hence the carbon-carbon bond lengths in diamond. This precision has hardly a
been superseded since. Some examples of her photographs are shown in figure 4. Figure 4a is a [8
photograph from a crystal described as a Type I diamond with a green skin (diamonds are found .
in two types, I and II—Type I diamonds show extra reflections in X-ray diffraction photographs
using white radiation). The conics can clearly be seen including both absorption and reflection
contrast. Figure 4b is from another diamond which has been aligned along a threefold axis of
symmetry. Here again the conics are obvious, although in this case only some of the lines show
the corresponding absorption conics. Note also that the conics occur in pairs with one component
much weaker than the other. This arises from the fact that the X-rays used consisted of two close
wavelengths, referred to as Ka, and Ka, rather than a single wavelength.

The real importance of such photographs is in the fact that very high sensitivity in the study of
lattice parameters can be obtained especially from the places where the conics cross, giving well-
defined points of intersection. The distances between intersections can be measured very precisely
and are very sensitive to small changes in the lattice dimensions. They are also insensitive to
modest misalignments of the sample.

In order to find the lattice dimensions, Lonsdale had first to determine which planes gave rise
to particular conics. Fortunately for a crystal such as diamond, which has cubic symmetry, this
was relatively easy to do, especially as computers were not available at the time Lonsdale carried
out these experiments. Nonetheless her analysis was careful and intricate, obviously requiring a
great deal of time to assemble. Today, more complex crystals could be analysed in divergent beam
mode through the use of modern computing power. As examples of Kathleen Lonsdale’s ability
to analyse complex photographs of this kind, see figure 5, where the conics are drawn ina special