sufficiently misaligned. The secondary instability of current sheets is an explosive instability that
occurs whenever the rotation of the field across the sheet exceeds a critical value of approximately
40° [53,54]. If we equate this misalignment angle with twice the tilt angle of the field on either side
of the sheet, then there is a reasonable agreement with the observationally inferred Parker angle.
We imagine that footpoint driving steadily increases the tangling and twisting of magnetic strands
until the critical angle is reached, at which point the instability sets in.

Onset of reconnection might also depend on the thickness of the current sheet. One scenario
is that current sheets reconnect at a very slow Sweet-Parker rate until they become sufficiently
thin that ‘Hall terms’ in the generalized Ohm’s Law become important. At that point, there is a
sudden transition to a fast Petschek-like reconnection [55,56]. The sheet must be extremely thin,
however (ion skin depth without a guide field or ion gyro-radius with one). New simulations
show that fast reconnection can in fact occur at a much greater thickness, but only if the aspect
ratio of the current sheet (ratio of length to width) is at least 100 [57,58]. This suggests a scenario in
which footpoint driving decreases the thickness of current sheets, by enhancing the surrounding
magnetic pressure, until a critical thickness or aspect ratio is reached.

Yet another possibility is a critical twist associated with the kink instability [30-32]. This could
occur at the level of a strand or of an entire loop. When a twisted loop undergoes resistive internal
kinking, the smoothly distributed currents that are present before kinking are rapidly converted
into a large number of current sheets that are scattered throughout the loop volume [59]. These
sheets can then reconnect to heat the plasma. This is an example where the individual events in


a nanoflare storm are activated by a single source, rather than being the result of an avalanche