damp, a higher temperature was required. Next, he studied the expansion that occurred on the
explosion of various mixtures and their power of communicating flame through apertures to
other explosive mixtures. These experiments yielded the clue that led him to the ultimate solution.
He investigated the movement of the flame of an explosive mixture of coal gas (which consists
mainly of Hz, CO and C2Hy) and air in a tube one-quarter of an inch in diameter and one foot
long. He found that it took a second to travel from one end to the other. When the diameter of the
tube was reduced to one-seventh of an inch he found that he could not make the mixture explode,
although coal gas was more explosive than fire-damp. He then exploded mixtures of fire-damp
via a jar connected with a bladder filled with the same mixture by means of a stopcock with an
aperture of one-sixth of an inch and found that the flame did not ignite the gas in the bladder. On
comparing the effect of connections between the jar and the bladder made of glass and metal, he
noted that flames passed more readily through glass tubes than metal tubes of the same diameter,
a fact that he attributed to the higher thermal conductivity of the metal and, hence, the cooling it
produced, bearing in mind his earlier observation that—in his own words—the fire-damp requires
a very strong heat for inflammation.

Davy also established that the explosion would not pass through metal slots if their diameter
was less than one-seventh of an inch, provided they were of sufficient length, nor would it pass
through fine wire-gauze. The latter was an important discovery. He then examined the effect of
mixing CO, or Np (azote) with the explosive mixture and found that the presence of one part
of Nz in six parts of the explosive mixture deprived it of its explosive power. He obtained the
same result with one part of CO2 in seven parts of the mixture. He concluded that this effect was
attributable to the cooling of the flame by this admixture of an ‘inert’ gas.

Equipped with all of these fundamental, experimental facts, Davy possessed sufficient