a fact that he attributed to the higher thermal conductivity of the metal and, hence, the cooling it
produced, bearing in mind his earlier observation that—in his own words—the fire-damp requires
a very strong heat for inflammation.

Davy also established that the explosion would not pass through metal slots if their diameter
was less than one-seventh of an inch, provided they were of sufficient length, nor would it pass
through fine wire-gauze. The latter was an important discovery. He then examined the effect of
mixing CO, or Np (azote) with the explosive mixture and found that the presence of one part
of Nz in six parts of the explosive mixture deprived it of its explosive power. He obtained the
same result with one part of CO2 in seven parts of the mixture. He concluded that this effect was
attributable to the cooling of the flame by this admixture of an ‘inert’ gas.

Equipped with all of these fundamental, experimental facts, Davy possessed sufficient
evidence to design his first safety lamp in which, by admitting only a limited supply of air to an oil
burner, in a closed lantern, the amount of CO? and N2 would be sufficient to prevent an explosion


Figure 1. Images are figs. 1 (left) and 9 (right) of Davy’s paper [11]. The left hand image represents the safe lantern with its air-
feeder and chimney furnished with safety metallic canals. It contains about a quart of air. The sides are of horn or glass, made
air tight by putty or cement. (A) is the lamp through which the circular air-feeding canals pass: they are 3 concentric hollow
cylinders, distant from each other 1/26 of an inch: the smallest is 2 1/2 inches in circumference; their depth is 2 inches. (B) is the
chimney containing 4 such canals, the smallest 2 inches in circumference: above it is a hollow cylinder, with a cap to prevent
dust from passing into the chimney. (C) is the hole for admitting oil. (D) is a long canal containing a wire by which the wick is
moved or trimmed. (E) is the tube forming a connection between the reservoir of oil and the chamber that supplies the wick
with oil. (F) is the rim round the bottom of the lantern to enable it to bear motion. Davy’s fig. 9 (right) is a metallic gauze safe