ratio. Support for this suggestion comes from some recent work by Bo et al. [43], who showed
that, during the dynamic compression of granite specimens at loading rates in the range 10°-10°
MPas™!, Poisson’s ratio of a granite sample containing 3.28% voids decreased from 0.31 to 0.23
as the loading rate increased from 5 x 10° MPas™! to 10° MPas™?.

We believe that the effect of the loading rate on Poisson’s ratios will also occur for fused silica,
Pyrex and soda-lime silica glasses.

Another observation that gives support to our suggestion comes from figure 7. It will be seen
that the data points owing to impact with the 1mm diameter glass spheres lie distinctly above
those owing to impact with the steel spheres. This means that for the same impact velocity
the semi-included angle of the Hertzian cone crack is smaller for a steel sphere impact than
for a glass sphere impact. This observation is consistent with the fact that for the same impact
velocity the loading rate for the steel projectiles will be greater than with the glass projectiles,
and, consequently, there will be a greater reduction in the value of Poisson’s ratio for the steel
projectiles than will be the case for the glass projectiles. It may also be noted from figure 7 that, for
a given projectile impact velocity, the semi-included angle of the Hertzian cone produced in fused
silica with a 1mm diameter sapphire sphere is smaller than that produced with a glass projectile.

The third aspect of this work concerns the total contact time during an impact and the lengths
of the cracks generated in different glasses. Table 2 shows that the observed total contact times
when steel projectiles impacted different glasses at velocities in the range 135-210ms~! agree
reasonably well with the contact times calculated using equation (2.13). We assume that, even at
higher impact velocities of 300-340 m s~!, the loading times for the impacts of 1 mm diameter steel
projectiles onto fused silica and soda-lime glass may be similar, though crushing of the glasses is