and prominences. For instance, the partial ionization effects in the chromosphere are known to
allow ion-neutral collisions to dissipate Alfvénic waves [99,100]. However, the picture is far from
complete, since it is unknown if this dissipation plays a major role in heating the chromosphere
[101-105]. Most of these studies obtain different high frequency cut-offs for Alfvénic waves for
different features (spicules, filaments, prominences, thin flux tubes, etc.) using fixed values for the
ion-neutral collision frequency of semi-empirical models such as the VAL-C model [102,106,107].
This dissipation contributes to the thermal and dynamic energy budget. In fact, as mentioned
in the previous section, electrical currents perpendicular to the magnetic field can be dissipated
by ambipolar diffusion and convert magnetic energy into thermal energy [108-111]. Soler et al.
[112,113] deduced that kink waves are damped by diffusion parallel to the magnetic field and
Alfvén waves by perpendicular diffusion. For short wavelengths, kink waves are converted into
Alfvén waves owing to the collisions between ions and neutrals. Ohmic dissipation dominates for
long wavelengths. In fact, all the diffusive mechanisms must be considered, and missing any of
the inertial, Hall and ambipolar terms will give incorrect results [114,115]. Zaqarashvili et al. [116]


deduced that there is no cut-off frequency for Alfvén waves, only a damping mechanism owing
to the ion-neutral interaction effects, when one is taking into account both the inertial and Hall
terms (where the inertial term is defined as the time variation of the relative velocity perturbations
perpendicular to the unperturbed magnetic field between ions and neutrals). However, according
to Vranjes & Kono [117], this result might be due to the assumption of neglecting the exchange
of momentum between ions and neutrals. However, one must be really careful with all these
results since the ion—-neutral collision frequency has been calculated in a very simplified manner
and a proper treatment of the collision between ions and neutrals may provide different results
(see below). In fact, even in semi-empirical models, using different methods to calculate the ion-