long wavelengths. In fact, all the diffusive mechanisms must be considered, and missing any of
the inertial, Hall and ambipolar terms will give incorrect results [114,115]. Zaqarashvili et al. [116]


deduced that there is no cut-off frequency for Alfvén waves, only a damping mechanism owing
to the ion-neutral interaction effects, when one is taking into account both the inertial and Hall
terms (where the inertial term is defined as the time variation of the relative velocity perturbations
perpendicular to the unperturbed magnetic field between ions and neutrals). However, according
to Vranjes & Kono [117], this result might be due to the assumption of neglecting the exchange
of momentum between ions and neutrals. However, one must be really careful with all these
results since the ion—-neutral collision frequency has been calculated in a very simplified manner
and a proper treatment of the collision between ions and neutrals may provide different results
(see below). In fact, even in semi-empirical models, using different methods to calculate the ion-
neutral collision frequency provide very different values for the damping and ambipolar diffusion
terms [106].

Ambipolar diffusion allows magnetic field to diffuse into the atmosphere [118-120]. Since
neutrals move through the expanding magnetic field in the chromosphere, the magnetic field : =
lines lift less matter. As a result the ambipolar diffusion inhibits the Rayleigh-Taylor (RT) 3
instability. By contrast, a completely different configuration, such as the 2.5D simulations of
prominences including partial ionization, shows an increase of small-scale velocities as a result nee)
of the nonlinearity of the RT instability, in contrast to single fluid simulations [121,122]. Note that :
the ambipolar diffusion can have effects of opposite nature: it can either inhibit the RT instability [4
or increase the small-scale structures of the RT instability depending on the spatial distribution DN
of ambipolar diffusion, i.e. compare Arber et al. [119] with Diaz et al. [121] and Khomenko et al. [sz