conceptually simplest examples of such an electronic phase transition from the metallic to the
non-metallic state, and vice versa. A liquid metal near its triple point is in natural equilibrium
with its corresponding low-density, non-metallic vapour. There is, therefore, a metal-non-metal
transition that coincides exactly with the liquid—vapour transition, i.e. both the density and the
electronic and molecular structures change when a metallic liquid vaporizes.

For example, liquid mercury and caesium approaching their triple points are considered as
normal liquid metals with electronic properties typical of the condensed state. The remarkably
small changes of basic properties of almost all metals, such as the electrical conductivity or
magnetic susceptibility on melting [22], show that the electronic structure of the liquid metal
is indeed quite similar to that of the crystalline solid, and both liquid and solid can be reasonably
well described by the nearly free-electron approximation. This behaviour is usually rationalized
by the fact that the short-range atomic correlations and the atomic density in the liquid near
melting are closely similar to those of the crystals. Consequently, the liquid metallic phase is
usually treated as a monatomic state, which reflects the solid structure being regarded as single
screened metal ions each diffusively uncoupled from every other.


In contrast to melting, however, there are substantial, qualitative changes in the very nature
of chemical bonding upon evaporation of a liquid metal. At sufficiently low densities, in the
vapour phase, the valence electrons occupy spatially localized atomic or molecular orbitals. We
take the example of caesium and mercury for illustration. In this vapour state, many caesium
atoms form chemically bound dimers with a dissociation energy of 0.45eV, whereas in the
vapour phase of mercury, chemically bonded dimers do not form because the ground state of the
mercury atom arises from a closed-shell electronic configuration, which by itself cannot form an