(i.e. is spread out over a larger height range) in the GOL-OS simulation than in the other .
two simulations.

Cold chromospheric bubbles are formed by expanding shock fronts that pass through

the chromosphere. These bubbles contain the lowest temperatures in the atmospheric model
[143]. Statistically, the simulations with partial ionization effects have hotter and denser cold
chromospheric expanding bubbles than the NGOL simulation. This is shown in the joint
probability distribution functions of the density and temperature integrated over 30 min in
figure 3 for simulations NGOL, GOL-OS and GOL-F. Everything below 4000K (log T < 3.6)
corresponds to the cold chromospheric bubbles. The minimum temperature achieved is lower
in the NGOL simulation than in the GOL simulations (enhanced with white circle E in figure 3b).
In fact, the coolest temperatures for the NGOL simulation are controlled by an ad hoc heating term
in the Bifrost code which is introduced to avoid reaching temperatures lower than approximately
1600K since below this threshold the tabulated equation of state is no longer accurate [139].
While this ad hoc heating is crucial for the NGOL simulation, it is rarely necessary in both
simulations with ion—neutral interaction effects since the cold chromospheric bubbles are not
cold enough to reach the temperature at which the ad hoc heating starts. The cold chromospheric
bubbles in the simulations with partial ionization effects are a few hundred degrees hotter
than in the NGOL simulation. Leenaarts et al. [143] found no mechanism to prevent extremely
low temperatures from occurring in expanding bubbles within the standard, single-fluid MHD
formulation. The Joule heating contribution coming from ambipolar diffusion provides such a
mechanism. Observations can help determine the amount and temperature of such cold plasma
in the solar chromosphere [144,145]. The details of the physical processes in the chromospheric
cold bubbles will be described in a follow-up paper.