exchanging the coupling forces through a thin shell surrounding the structures. The use of
a shell is advantageous (i) to resolve or parametrize the physical phenomena taking place at
the fluid-structure interfaces and (ii) to reduce the computational cost particularly when large
structures (or a large number of small structures) are investigated. Importantly, the IS method
works with both structured and unstructured meshes, non-coinciding fluid and solid meshes, and
different discretization schemes for the fluid- and structural-dynamics equations. This versatility
is attractive for many engineering disciplines, including offshore wind energy. For example,
the study of wave-structure interactions requires high-order representations of the velocity and
pressure fields, in order to accurately model wave propagation over several wavelengths. This
study shows that the method provides accurate results on a series of benchmarked test cases.
The present analysis is limited to relatively low Reynolds numbers because of the absence of
a turbulence model and the high computational cost associated with the present simulations.
The simulation cost is due to the fact that none of the structural-dynamics models and the
coupling algorithm are currently parallelized. However, the use of a thin shell surrounding the
structure is very attractive to tackle high Reynolds numbers flows, for which boundary-layer
resolution is critical. Future research will focus on improving the representation of physical
phenomena in the IS to tackle the aero- and hydrodynamics of offshore wind turbines. In this
context, several challenges are foreseen. As this study showed, the shell has to be sufficiently
thin to get accurate numerical results. For slender structures, such as wind turbine blades, or
complex geometries in general, having a very thin shell around the structure can be numerically
challenging. Additionally, the implementation of a wall-layer model to reproduce the dynamics
of high Reynolds number flows near the fluid-structure interface is non-trivial. The case of


wind turbines is particularly challenging, owing to their high rotational speeds, and the complex