Figure 8. Number of solutions in the universal model as shown as the background colour and labelled in the key on the right-
hand side of each plot. White regions have no solutions for the reasons labelled: ‘No EWSB’ denotes a region where there is
no acceptable electroweak minimum of the Higgs potential. The lines in (a) display 95% exclusion contours from ATLAS [11]
and CMS [12] jets plus missing transverse momentum searches. The region below each contour is excluded (adapted from [10}).
(Online version in colour.)

three solutions are predicted. In fact, it turns out that in this plane, all of the multiple solutions
have already been ruled out by previous experimental searches for charginos. Thus they do not
present a problem.

At higher values of tan 6 and yu < 0, there is a strip where this is not a problem, and is shown
in figure 8b: the uppermost strip with two solutions (the lower strip is ruled out by having light
charginos that would have been seen at the LEP2 collider). In fact, the multiple solutions in table 1
are taken from this ‘phenomenologically plausible strip’. Squarks from the first two generations
and gluino masses display a negligible difference between the different solutions in this strip. The
neutralino mass can be different by about 1-2%, depending upon the position in the plane. This
means that, for the most stringent searches involving multiple jets of hadrons and the missing
transverse momentum referred to above, if one of the solutions is ruled out by the analysis, the
other solution will also be ruled out. On the other hand, chargino masses can be affected by 10%
or so, and so interpretations of analyses which depend upon charginos in decay chains may be
sensitive to the multiple solutions, and should be checked on a case-by-case basis.

Here, we exemplify the most notable difference between the solutions: that of a different
predicted thermal relic density of dark matter in the universe. Recently, data from the Planck
satellite have been used to derive the constraint [6] on the thermal dark matter relic density (see