Hosoya [2] in 1972, the idea of using a crystal-based X-ray interferometer was picked up again in
the 1990s, in particular by Momose’s group. XPCI exploded in the mid-1990s, and, to the best of
our knowledge, the first of a long series of papers published from 1995 onwards is Momose’s
[3], published on 1 January 1995, on results already presented in the previous year. Momose
and his group continued to explore medical and biological applications of XPCI implemented
with the Bonse-Hart interferometer, as reported, for example, in their 1996 Nature Medicine
paper [4].

Almost simultaneously, researchers started to explore a different approach to the use of crystals
in XPCI—namely the use of a perfect crystal as an ‘angular analyser’. It was in fact observed
that the faint distortions in the wavefront caused by phase changes translate directly into slight
changes in the X-ray direction (X-ray refraction), which could therefore be picked up by a
system with sufficient angular sensitivity like a perfect crystal. The fact that the refraction angle
is proportional to the gradient of the phase shift gave rise to the name ‘differential’ XPCI, which
is common to other methods listed below, such as edge-illumination and Talbot interferometry.
The most famous paper pioneering this approach is the 1995 Nature letter by Davis et al. [5]. It
has to be said, however, that a few known examples exist that pre-date that deservedly famous
paper, where effectively the same method had been used to address specific problems, and the
results were published in journals with relatively limited diffusion [6,7]. Another paper on the
crystal method appeared later in the same year [8] and the method continued to be explored later,
leading to some of the first simplified phase retrieval algorithms [9] and extraction of the first
quantitative X-ray ‘dark-field’ images [10-12] (qualitative dark-field images had already been
presented in [5]).

Still in 1995, a much simpler implementation, based on free-space propagation, was proposed