experience from past industrial revolutions, and social sustainability. In all countries, there exist
examples that prove the economic advantage of supporting the workforce sufficiently, probably
one of the most famous is that of Henry Ford in 1914. He effectively doubled the income of his
workers while reducing the work hours at the same time [50]. This economic advantage caused
by ensuring human involvement is one of the topics we encourage to research more. This is very
promising, but it is not mainstream thinking or acting and takes perseverance and courage on the
decision maker’s part. The technology behind 14.0 is capable of fostering such an advantage.

Figure 1 includes more than the mere industrial world. It indicates many other fields of
application that require or provide communication with Internet-based devices. The definition
of a path in the RAMI 4.0 for this communication also explains a rather disturbing context that is
observed today. Individuals can retrieve their own information and thus build their own ‘reality’.
This underlines the fact that one will have to make an effort to ensure that the information
received by a party or by a technical asset is credible. Billions are spent on the development of
the system under consideration here, and an equivalent effort is necessary to empower humans
with the knowledge and the tools to be able to cope with it in a sustainable way, not only for their
employees but also for their command of this technology.

As additional consideration for the capability-oriented 14.0-based digitalization, it is essential
to stress that it includes the realistic option to build small systems in a plug and produce way
without requiring sophisticated knowledge for the ramp-up. Also, a realization of smaller systems
is possible at levels of investment that were not thinkable before. As industrial and especially
Information and Communication Technologies evolve over the years [51] new capabilities will be
made available at a mass scale. This again is a big chance for humans to use the technology to
create their own products independent of large enterprises. This is not wishful thinking, but it is