is wrongly called memory, it is only the content of it, not the process. What we know that is
immediately accessible without resorting to a search engine is that which conditions imagined
or reasoned responses or hunches or gut reactions. If that is depleted, the focus and precision
of our ruminations suffer irretrievably. This predicament may have already provoked disastrous
political consequences. What does it take to judge well, then decide well? It takes a minimum of
knowledge, skill, experience and, of course, memory. How can one participate in a vote critical
to the future of the country with no knowledge of the current situation and unable to predict the
most obvious consequences that will follow? The troubling realization that global trends glean
from ‘populism’ is that most people don’t oppose false promises any more than they do false
news because they no longer have the critical apparatus that previously came with a focused
education and time to read. They vote with their feelings because that is all they have. All that
remains of the memory now evacuated in our smartphones is the emotion, not the content of what
caused it. In fact, it is the memory of the facts that disappears first. We don’t remember anything
‘by heart’, starting with the phone number of our spouse or children. But the emotion remains
because it is a physical experience, inscribed in the body itself. That is why it is still persistent.
What is happening here is the pervasive (not to say perverse) effect of the digital
transformation on the person. Where memory and imagination where primarily supported by
literacy and reading printed words, digital screens supply semantically comparable contents but
outside the mind. While the text fixed on its page is entirely destined to the silent interpretation
and integration of what is written, as soon as it appears fluid and changing on a screen, it tempts


the reader to be satisfied with an initial cursory read and to merely storing it or take a hypertextual 8 |
or multimedia tangent. Cognition displayed on a screen exits from the private processing of
