for optimization or predictive maintenance. For the sectors with digital capitals, they may be :s

professionals with expertise in three-dimensional modelling, simulators and data mining, but
they may find it difficult to evaluate the data available for the creation of DTs. In the case
of planning and finance departments, they have to conduct an extensive manual investigation
and coordinate with the supervisor of the operation core. Based on these observations, to
mitigate unnecessary cost, to improve the final product quality (thus higher value) and to
reduce the uncertainty and insufficiency caused by the human participants, an internal structural
change that reshapes the interconnectivity is needed. To achieve this, it is not just about setting
up the information-sharing protocols and constructing the data transmission networks, but
rather, about associating the physical assets, the contextual information, the domain knowledge,
and the human operators and the managers throughout the entire product life cycle [9,10].
In fact, numerous practical factors (concerns) such as confidentiality, trustworthiness and an
explosion in the scale of transmissible data can make the solution space very limited. What
we need is a constantly learning ‘living’ model—a digital counterpart of the above-mentioned
components—the digital twin. In one aspect, only the legitimated parties can communicate
and interact with it via the digital thread [11,12]. In another aspect, a fleet of digital twins
acquire knowledge from each other, each synchronized with the physical entity. This gives
the digital twin some kind of insight into the crowd, into the past and the future, and
as a result, novel types of value-added services are emerging [8]. This provides a chance
for the small-scale third-party players to take a position against the big players, e.g. by
offering software as a service (SaaA). This is beneficial for the ecology of Industry 4.0 as an
innovation stimulator and a powerful balancing tool. In the future, to add new features to
an industrial cyber-physical system, it will be as easy as downloading an app from the DT
app store.