
normalized to a measure of MJ per ton of CO2 equivalent (MJ/tCOzeq) using a global warming
potential over a 20-year time horizon (GWP20) of 86 and over a 100-year time horizon (GWP100)
of 34. With the same capture fraction of 70% and outlet purity of 97%, the minimum work of
methane capture is 24 MJ/tCOzeq and 62 MJ/tCOzeq using GWP20 and GWP100, respectively.
For CO, the minimum work of capture is 459 MJ/tCO2, meaning that the minimum work of
capture for the same radiative forcing impact is 7 times lower using methane’s GWP20 and 19
times lower using GWP100. Figure 2 shows how the minimum work of atmospheric methane
capture varies with concentration and outlet purity, while holding capture fraction constant
at 70%.

As the concentration of methane increases, the minimum work of separation decreases. This
fact emphasizes that addressing higher concentration sources first is desirable, just as it is for CO2
removal, and that as more CHy is captured directly from ambient air, further capture will require
more work per unit CH4y removed as the background concentration drops. However, this may
be remedied by strategically centring efforts of methane capture near regions where the methane
concentration is consistently higher than in ambient air, including those associated with oil or
natural gas extraction, abandoned coal mines, landfills and agriculture [35]. Technically, such
efforts would be better described as methane mitigation because they target oxidizing elevated
methane concentrations from known sources rather than methane at average concentrations in the
bulk atmosphere. A dairy farm, where methane concentrations can be as high as 1000 times the
average atmospheric concentration [36], is representative of a sector where methane emissions
may be relatively difficult to eliminate, and methane oxidation could be strategic to employ.
Avoiding methane emissions through local mitigation first—wherever possible—will almost
always be less expensive and energy-intensive than methane removal from the bulk atmosphere.