
The albedo feedback of vegetation is further illustrated in figure 3 over West Africa for the
five models for which LGM and MH simulations are available in the database, focusing on boreal
summer during the African monsoon season. It reaches a few Watts per square metre and is thus
less effective on the atmospheric circulation than the SW cloud radiative feedback that reaches 20-
30 W m~? in this region. However, it has a local impact and locally reinforces or damps the African
monsoon. These maps also show the lack of consistency between model results, even on the
sign of the feedback for the LGM. This is similar to the large differences in precipitation changes
simulated by the different models for this climate. As an example, CCSM4 shows a pronounced
reduction of precipitation and a reduction of LAI at LGM compared with the PI. The larger surface
albedo thus reflects more radiation back to space in the LGM than in the PI climate. The IPSL-
CM5A-LR simulation shows a local enhancement of the African monsoon that is related to the
fact that the thermohaline circulation is enhanced compared with the PI circulation, reinforcing
the interhemispheric gradient in the tropical Atlantic and favouring the northward migration of
the ITCZ over Africa and thereby the vegetation LAI. In this region the feedback is negative. In
the other places over Africa, the drier climate contributes to the reduction of precipitation and of
LAL, leading to a positive radiative feedback.

The response is more consistent for the MH (figure 3b). The vegetation albedo feedback is
effective in the Sahel-Sahara region where it reaches up to 5Wm7?. The exact location varies
from one model to the other, so that the feedback on radiation and on precipitation is difficult
to compare between those simulations. Part of the differences between models corresponds to
differences in the precipitation change and the northward penetration of the monsoon flow
onto the continent at the MH. As in PMIP2 simulations [45], this feedback is not sufficient and
precipitation changes are still too small in the Sahel-Sahara compared with observations [6,46].