the ratio of the forcing scale to the ion inertial scale d;. This result can be recovered using
a simple physical argument in which the dimensional scaling law for the helicity spectra,

Hm,c(k) ~ Ae, plays a central role [80]. This was verified by a series of (moderate-resolution)
numerical simulations. It would certainly be of interest to pursue this study for substantially
higher numerical resolution at small scale, leading to higher Reynolds numbers Re, in order to
investigate the role small scales play in the development of inverse cascades in that case. For
example, does the k~? inverse scaling of Hjyy,c persist at high Re in Hall- MHD?

(b) Exact laws in the presence of helicity

A conservation law, such as that of kinetic energy, is a global volume-integrated property of non-
dissipative physics. These laws are in fact rather constraining in the sense that they are valid, in
Fourier space, for each individual (but isolated) triad. They also lead, under a suite of hypotheses
(homogeneity, isotropy, stationarity, and non-zero dissipation in the limit of high Reynolds
number), to an exact relationship linking third-order structure functions to the kinetic energy
dissipation rate ey and the spatial distance r between two points. In the simplest (incompressible)
case, this leads to the Kolmogorov 4/5th law [81]; with du(r) = u(x + r) — u(x), and with uy the
longitudinal component of the velocity (along 1), it is written as (suz(r)>) = —(4/5)evr. This law
has been generalized to include all components of the velocity, to the dynamics of the passive
scalar and to that of MHD [82] and Hall-MHD [83]. In the helical case, some rewriting of
second- and third-rank tensors taking into account the fact that vorticity and helicity are pseudo
(axial) vectors and scalars, was deemed necessary [15,84]. Vectorial versions of these exact laws
stemming from conservation properties can in fact be derived in a simpler manner [85]. In the
fluid helical case, the exact relationship for helicity reads, with éy the dissipation rate of Hy