was originally proposed by de Sitter. It was later realized that it may also be described as a model
for an expanding universe in both time directions, because of the negligible effect of gravitational
attraction. In fact, it is constantly accelerating with time due to Einstein’s cosmological constant
term introduced earlier the same year that de Sitter spacetime first appeared.

The de Sitter universe has no beginning or end. This universe plays the role of an ‘undisturbed’
state for the modified Einstein equations with a cosmological term, in a similar way as does
Minkowski space for the original field equations (i.e. with 4 = 0). However, de Sitter space is really
different to Minkowski space in certain quantum aspects, see below. It also plays a fundamental
role as possible asymptotic states of more general homogeneous cosmologies (see later sections
below).

In fact, there are two ‘de Sitter’ spaces, one for A positive—the de Sitter space (dS)—and the
case of negative 4, the so-called anti-de Sitter space (AdS) (see [10] for an excellent discussion of
these spaces, and [11] for a more specialized description of their infinity properties).

Perhaps the simplest way to distinguish dS from AdS universes is that dS, like Schwarszchild
spacetime but unlike AdS, has a horizon separating its static regions from its evolutionary ones.
This was not clear initially, but it later became understood with the work of Eddington and
Lemaitre. However, unlike dS space, the AdS spacetime contains closed timelike curves and is
globally static. Normally, when we talk about AdS we simply mean its universal cover, a space
without closed timelike curves. dS and AdS spaces are very important in current primordial
cosmology, especially in braneworlds and holographic models of the early universe (see section
on branes in Part B of this survey). dS space also has an instability, classically forbidden, associated
with the possibility of defining a non-thermal temperature using the event horizon [12]. In this