a deterministic variational framework using sample path large deviation theory, which is
particularly suited for rare and extreme events. This led us to consider a (3 + 1)-dimensional
optimization problem with final-time constraints to enforce large observable values, which
we were able to solve using tools from PDE-constrained optimization. For both observables
considered here, we observe symmetry breaking of the minimizers: the vortex filaments that
lead to large values of the vorticity reduce from axial to reflection symmetry, and the vortex
rings that realize large strain transition to a pancake-like vortex sheet structure. For positive
strain in particular, we demonstrated that the symmetry-broken minimizer clearly dominates the
symmetric one and can in fact be confirmed to yield the correct scaling of DNS PDFs at suitable
Re, in contrast to the axisymmetric one.

The possibility to access the most extreme events in Navier-Stokes turbulence without
sampling is attractive. Despite the fact that the optimization problem (2.9) to be solved is massive,
with fields of size 512 x 128°, and a single iteration of the minimization algorithm corresponding
to a forward integration of the NSE, and an equally sized backward propagation, we show that
this effort pays off for extreme outlier events: obtaining these same configurations traditionally
necessitates either millions of samples of the stochastic NSE (for lower Re), or the regime is
completely inaccessible as the events are entirely too rare and extreme to be observed (for higher
Re). While one could try to formulate reduced problems in effective coordinates, for example as
in [44], our approach yields the most likely configuration without any a priori assumptions about
its form or physical mechanisms.

In this paper, we only considered the exponential contribution of the minimizer for the PDF.
Improved estimates are possible in principle when taking into account the fluctuations around
the instantons, as discussed e.g. in [24]. The computational cost of computing this fluctuation