
We would also like to add that here we get a biased walk where the bias can be positive and
negative with equal probability on an average. Hence, if one considers the entire distribution,
one will get (X) =0 for all p. This will give (X?) — (X)? «#? for p<p, and «xt for p> pc. Note
that in ordinary biased random walk, (X*) — (X)? « ¢ in contrast. Using either the region X > 0 or
X <0, we obtained (X2) — (X)? «¢ as in the biased random walk. We argue it is better to regard
the distribution to the left and right of the origin separately, consistent with the snapshots which
clearly reveal the biased nature of the walks below p-. We also find that the bias a goes to zero
above p; and is therefore analogous to an order parameter. Indeed, the critical exponent associated
with a is very close to 0.5, the known value for O, the order parameter in the opinion dynamics
model (or Ising model) in the mean-field case.

We also observed a discontinuity in the value of o at p = pc. In fact, the behaviour of o is quite
similar to that of the specific heat of the mean-field Ising model with the critical exponent equal to
zero and a jump discontinuity [32]. Note that both o and specific heat are measures of fluctuation.
So we claim that from these walks, not only the transition point can be detected, one can also
obtain an estimate of the static critical points.

As far as the present two schemes are concerned, one gets nearly identical exponents for the
time scales which diverge and the bias that vanishes close to the critical point. A brief analysis
helps us to understand why this is so. However, the motion of the walkers is more zig-zag
in Scheme II, that leads to a reduced bias and the width of the distribution shows different
results quantitatively in the two schemes as a result. In principle, the walks can be conceived in
many other ways, so although three exponents show comparable values, one cannot immediately
conclude that a universal behaviour exists for all virtual walks. Still, it is interesting that the