based gradient approaches formulated in the continuous (infinite-dimensional) setting, cf.
appendix A. We note that in addition to their numerous successful practical applications
involving, for example, shape optimization in aerodynamics [89] and data assimilation in
numerical weather prediction [90], similar optimization approaches have also been employed
in the study of some other fundamental problems in fluid mechanics, namely, optimal mixing
[91,92], transition to turbulence [93] and a search for rare events in turbulence based on
instantons [94].

The main results of the research program are summarized in table 1. The main conclusion is
that so far our search based on the enstrophy and the Ladyzhenskaya—Prodi-Serrin conditions
(1.4) and (1.5) has revealed no indication of singularity formation in three-dimensional Navier-
Stokes flows with the optimal initial conditions. However, the behaviour exhibited by these
different extreme flows in terms of the maximum growth of enstrophy is in fact similar, cf.
figure 5a, and analogous to what was found in one-dimensional Burgers flows, cf. (2.7), (4.4)
and figure 1b. The results discussed in §3 demonstrated the sharpness of a number of a priori
estimates on the growth of palinstrophy in two dimensions, both instantaneously and in finite
time. We remark that the power-law structure of estimates (1.10), (3.5) and of the empirical relation
(4.4) can be justified with simple arguments based on dimensional analysis [13,28,73]. The results
surveyed here were obtained using different values of the viscosity coefficient v. To facilitate
quantitative comparison between different problems, they can be rescaled to correspond to say
v =1 expressing the solution of (1.1) as u(t, x) =: v v(vt,x), such that the rescaled solution v solves
(1.1) with v = 1 and the time variable redefined as vt (analogous approach applies to systems (2.1)
and (3.1)).

Somewhat paradoxically, the situation in two dimensions is more satisfactory than in one