

of the electronic states: the moving crude adiabatic (MCA) representation [43-45]. In the MCA
representation, the electronic states are solution of the electronic time-independent Schrédinger
equation only at the Gaussians’ centre. Such electronic states do not depend on the nuclear
coordinates anymore but rather on the Gaussians’ centre that are simply time-dependent
parameters. Consequently, these states are time-dependent diabatic states, and they do not exhibit
GP by construction (they are single-valued, as opposed to the adiabatic states). Hence, the nuclear
components are also single-valued, and the single-valuedness of the Gaussian basis functions
does not pose any problem (in opposition to the adiabatic case). A method that is similar in spirit
was proposed by Meek & Levine [32], where the electronic states are Diabatized Gaussians on
Adiabatic Surfaces (DGAS), shares numerous features with MCA. The difference resides in the
fact that MCA employs crude adiabatic states that are rigorously diabatic, while DGAS employs
quasi-diabatic states. Using MCA states was found to properly account for GP effects in low
energy dynamics in adiabatic representation [44], where the extra GP-induced interference causes
appearance of a nodal plane in the adiabatic nuclear wavepackets [18,44]. On the contrary, the
MCA states were not yet tested in the regime of non-adiabatic transitions, where GP participates
in enhancing interstate population transfer in the adiabatic representation. Furthermore, the MCA
states do not produce the non-integrable DBOC terms, which is also a powerful advantage for the
numerical stability of the simulations.

In this paper, we study the ability of the MCA representation to properly describe the non-
adiabatic transitions with a special emphasis on the role of GP and DBOC in the adiabatic
representation. The role of GP in this context was found to be twofold: (i) it “compensates for
repulsion caused by the DBOC’ [15] and thus facilitates the wave function to reach the CI region