expectations and potential social sanctions. On this account, compliance with social norms is
conditional on ‘empirical expectations’, i.e. the belief that a sufficiently large number of people in
their community conform to the rule, and ‘normative expectations’, i.e. the belief that a sufficiently
large number of people in their community think that they ought to conform to the rule and may

be willing to sanction transgressions. In general, empirical expectations about the prevalence of : =
a behaviour are crucial, but not necessarily sufficient for norm following. In situations where =

individual and social interests align, but a coordination problem needs to be solved (such as
driving on the right side of the road), empirical expectations may suffice. However, when social
norms prescribe behaviour that goes against narrow, self-interested motives, like in collective
action problems, the associated costs may make self-interested individuals uninterested in
norm compliance regardless of their empirical expectations—in fact, it provides an incentive
to free ride. In these situations, empirical expectations need to be complemented by normative
expectations, for these often come with the expectation of social sanctions [29]. Similarly,
normative expectations should be met with empirical expectations, since otherwise people may
see that norms can be violated without sanctions.

This definition that decomposes aggregate social norms as the result of individuals’
expectations has several advantages. It allows us to distinguish social norms from other related
concepts. Differently to habits (e.g. brushing teeth in the morning), recurrent behavioural patterns
(e.g. people putting up umbrellas at the same time when it rains) and moral norms (e.g. not
harming innocent people) that are primarily unconditional or driven by non-social motives,
compliance with social norms is conditional on social expectations. This definition also allows
us to separate social norms from conventions or descriptive norms whose compliance instead is