
While the Bovik-Benveniste methodology was successfully used in various applications (e.g. [3
[41-46]) and incorporated in a few numerical procedures, e.g. [47-51], some controversy and : S
issues related to its implementation remain. For example, in [15], it was suggested that the : Ss
methodology does not work for the case when all phases in the original problem have the same : =
properties. There, the jumps across an interface (obtained at the second step of the methodology) 7S

were confused with the jumps across a layer. The former, as expected vanish, while non-zero
jumps across the layer are recovered at the post-processing step of the methodology, in which the
problem, of a domain subjected to some load and prescribed vanishing jumps across the interface,
is solved analytically and the fields at the traces of the layer boundaries are exactly evaluated. A
more serious issue was reported in [30], where it was stated that ‘the numerical results for the O(h?)
version .. . revealed a serious deficiency consisting in the fact that for very stiff interphases its predictions do
not improve over the corresponding results of its O(h) version ...and even fall more distant from the exact
solution’, and concluded that ‘the construction of an O(h*) version ...in elasticity which behaves
satisfactorily at all ranges of interphase stiffness remains an open issue’.

Even though the models of the second group are somewhat more versatile, in the sense
that they can be used for curved and relatively thick layers, they are still of low (up to the
second) order. Until recently, higher-order interface models were proposed for conductivity
problems only, e.g. [9,36]. In this paper, we derive the boundary conditions associated with Model
I and Model II up to the third order for two-dimensional elastostatics problems with layers of
arbitrary sufficiently smooth curvatures. To do that, we develop a novel complex variables-based
approach that results in explicit expressions for the boundary conditions for the two models. We
demonstrate that the use of the third-order Model II takes care of the issue identified in [30]. Using