The incremental response of a periodic grid of preloaded elastic rods can be homogenized to
obtain an effective, prestressed elastic solid, linearly relating the increments of the first Piola—
Kirchhoff stress and of the displacement gradient [14-17]. Two types of instability may occur
in the grid, classified as ‘microscopic’ and ‘macroscopic’. Only the latter is captured by the
homogenized material response and corresponds to its loss of ellipticity, which, in turn, coincides
with the condition of strain localization, and, as a special case, shear band formation [18-22].

Recently, two-dimensional grids of prestressed elastic rods, subject to in-plane incremental
normal and shear forces and bending moment, have been advocated as materials that can be
designed to exhibit instabilities inside the elastic range as well as to display tunable effective
properties [23]. However, loss of ellipticity in these materials has been so far shown to be possible
only when compression is involved, so that the locus of material stability for the homogenized
material is unbounded in tension. This circumstance is a direct consequence of the fact that usually
elastic rods only buckle in compression. However, real materials exhibit localization of strain
for all stress states, including tension [24]. Therefore, it might be superficially (and erroneously)
concluded that it is impossible to design an artificial material with a bounded stability domain,
using a grid of elastic rods. In contrast to this erroneous conclusion, it is shown in this article that
employing slider constraints (permitting only relative transverse sliding between the connected
ends of two rods) inside the rods forming the periodic lattice may lead to a macroscopic buckling
in tension, formally corresponding to loss of ellipticity in the homogenized response for tensile
stress states.

As a consequence, it is rigorously proven that homogenization leads to a bounded domain where
failure determined by strain localization and shear bands is excluded. This failure occurs as soon as this
domain is touched, as it happens for every radial stress paths emanating from the unloaded state.