space which can in theory generate tens of thousands of reactions from just a handful of starting 8 |
molecules [28] (and where many millions more of molecules are known). This means that many

chemical routes and catalysts are not taken into account in this work, routes which most likely are 3
able to overcome highly endergonic steps taken in our simulations. The accurate computational oS
prediction and assignment of small-molecule catalysis to individual reactions is still infeasible, : gS
and the use of known biochemistry reveals much about the fundamental principles and network 12

structure while opening doors to future work. When more is revealed about general rules of
catalysis and complex chemical systems, it is most likely that different, larger and more versatile
autocatalytic networks will be found, and confirmed experimentally.

The fact that small-molecule autocatalytic chemical networks can be found universally in :3
prokaryotic metabolism is a strong indication that they were the initial step of molecular : s
reproduction in the Universe. In the clear wording of H. Morowitz, ‘In any case the problem must :3
begin at the beginning. In my view the beginning is the network in small molecule space’ [58]. Recent work {=
identified universal core autocatalytic motifs and analysed their kinetic viability [29]. In these ia
motifs every molecule is an autocatalyst, and each motif contains a fork of one molecule to two, : =
amplifying the number of autocatalysts. Among five such motifs, each higher numbered is better : =
at survival. It is now possible to examine the set of metabolic transformations in any prokaryotic 1B

map to access the distribution of the five motifs, their location in metabolic maps and their roles
in prebiotic and early biotic evolution. Autocatalysis in a non-equilibrium system can increase the
concentrations of some metabolites. Do motifs increase concentrations of metabolites that would
be low in the absence of other catalysts? If early life required a stable source of building blocks