stronger for central spins than for those at the ends of the chain. This behaviour can be
related to the fact that, for finite systems, factorization starts from the edges, as shown in [59],
resulting hence in zero strength at the boundaries progressively increasing when moving into
the bulk. This means, together with the fact that the graph is fully connected (all degrees are
equal to N — 1), that concurrences are actually heterogeneously distributed across the system.
Yet, these weights are allocated in such a way that all relative fluctuations at the local level,
quantified by the disparity, are equal. This indicates a high level of symmetry in the state right
before the quantum phase transition, namely, that the single-spin distributions of concurrence
may be very similar for all spins in the chain when appropriately rescaled; this is indeed
confirmed in figure 3d. From the network point of view, this suggests that the weights can
be written as w= cj; for some local variables {a;}: in such a case, the weights of the links
intersecting node i rescaled by their mean value, s;/dj, are oi (Cigi @1/di) =(N — 1)aj/ Digi ay
(N — 1)oy/ >) a7, hence approximately independent of i. In fact, in the k = 1 concurrence network,
aj = 2 sin(iz/(N + 1))/V/N +1.

As the magnetic field is decreased (and k increases), we observe the appearance of k—1
peaks in the disparity, signalling a local increase in the heterogeneity of pairwise concurrence for
centrally located spins. A close inspection of the plots also shows that the outermost (and highest)
peaks in Yj; correspond to the outermost (and lowest) minima in the strength s;, which presents
k peaks. In short, we see that there are field-dependent groups of spins near the boundaries
exhibiting higher, and more homogeneously distributed, pairwise entanglement, which we may
consider as edges. The rest of the spins in the chain, with lower and more heterogeneous local
concurrence distribution, will be denoted as the bulk of the chain. Moreover, these regions are
very clearly delimited and their size strongly depends on the magnetic field, for fixed N.
