]. Introduction

The standard or concordance model of cosmology, or ACDM model, is a rather successful
theoretical framework for the phenomenological description of the Universe [1-4]. The current
paradigm is almost 40 years old, but it became experimentally solid only in the mid 1990s [5,6].
Being accepted by most cosmologists, it is also called the ‘concordance’ cosmological model.
Crucial ingredients of it, however, lack of observational evidence and/or of a proper theoretical
understanding based on fundamental principles. Such is the situation with dark matter, of which
we still have no direct evidence. No less preoccupying is the theoretical status of the cosmological
constant (CC) term, A, in Einstein’s equations. Despite it is permitted by general covariance,
nothing is firmly known about its possible physical origin. The roots of the problem reside in
its interpretation as a quantity which is connected with the vacuum energy density (VED), pyac,
a fundamental concept in quantum field theory (QFT). In fact, the notion of vacuum energy in
cosmology is a most subtle concept which has challenged theoretical physicists and cosmologists
for more than half of a century, especially with the advent of quantum theory and in general
with the development of the more sophisticated conceptual machinery of QFT. The proposed
connection is pyac = A/(872 Gyn), where Gy is Newton’s constant. Consistent measurements of this
parameter made independently in the last 20 years using distant type-Ia supernovae (Snla) [7,8]
and the anisotropies of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) [9,10], have put the foundations
of the concordance ACDM model of cosmology [2]. The model is continuously being tested
and must be confronted with the hints of new physics that may come from the many cosmic
messengers [11].

Historically, the A-term in the gravitational field equations was introduced by Einstein 105
years ago [12], but the ‘cosmological constant problem’ (CCP) as such was first formulated 50