constant H? in this case. The accelerated expansion dilutes all but the dark energy density and
smoothes out any inhomogeneities, so the de Sitter universe is a late-time ‘attractor’ solution of
the Einstein field equations.

However, there is mounting evidence, e.g. [37-39], that all ‘de Sitter compactifications’ are part
of the swampland. This can be seen as a conjectural generalization of an earlier no-go theorem that
rules out non-singular de Sitter compactification solutions of the (higher-dimensional) Einstein
field equations if the compact space (and warp factor in the case of ‘warped’ compactifications)
are time-independent and the stress-energy tensor satisfies the strong-energy condition (SEC) [40].
In the context of the effective low-energy 10-dimensional or 11-dimensional supergravity theories
of string/M-theory this result was rediscovered in [41], where it was also extended to cover one
exceptional case for which the SEC does not hold (massive IIA). It should be appreciated that
the SEC is not required by basic physical principles; its significance comes from the fact that it
is satisfied by the effective low-energy 10-dimensional or 11-dimensional supergravity theories
of string/M-theory. More recently, it was shown that time-dependent compactifications to the de
Sitter universe on non-singular compact spaces can also be ruled out if the higher-dimensional
stress-energy tensor satisfies both the SEC and the null energy condition (NEC) [42] (although the
dominant energy condition (DEC) was stated as a premise, only the weaker NEC was actually
used in the proof). The tension between string /M-theory and the astronomical observations that
indicate a constant dark-energy density is therefore far from having been resolved, despite two
decades of effort.

From a purely four-dimensional perspective, the effect of ‘extra’ inaccessible dimensions is
to provide a variety of matter fields and a potential V for any scalar fields associated with
moduli (of the compact space or D-brane configurations) and relative positions of anti-branes