linear stability analysis [11,12]. Kreilos & Schneider [13] expanded on this result and computed
the force equilibrium solutions of a thin cylindrical shell, finding localized unstable modes at the
boundary of the basin of attraction of the undeformed state. Moreover, they showed that these
localized modes are edge-states of the system; the basin of attraction of the system is defined
as the set of all points that return to the rest state of the system and edge-states of the system
are attractors of the dynamics along the boundary of the basin. Virot et al. [9,14] used lateral
poking to study the stability of thin cylindrical shells under finite amplitude perturbations. By
poking the cylinder at different axial loads they were able to identify a ‘stability landscape’
which captures the stability of a system, with the transition from a positive force on the poker
to a negative force at buckling. It was then shown by Abramian ef al. [15] that by performing
a ‘ridge tracking’ procedure on these landscapes, one can estimate the buckling load of a
cylindrical shell with an introduced defect to within 5% error. Hutchinson & Thompson [16]
suggested that the work done by the poker is in fact the energy barrier to buckling through
lateral deformation; a zero ridge height coincides with a zero energy barrier to buckling, thus,
the ridge tracking method estimates the axial load where spontaneous buckling is initiated. The
stability landscape has recently been used by Royer & Pellegrino [17] to look at optimal design
for space-deployable structures and study the early transition into the post-buckled regime. A
similar approach was also recently explored by Marthelot et al. [18] and Abbasi ef al. [19] to
accurately predict the buckling of hemispherical shells. It was reported that proper selection
of the point of probing on the shell is paramount for an accurate prediction. It is thus the
current understanding that ridge tracking measures the stability of the system to finite amplitude
perturbations at a specific location, however, knowing the right location to poke is extremely
challenging, as highlighted by Ankalhope & Jose [20]. This would suggest that an approach that
looks at more than just the local response could be beneficial for the study of the stability of thin
shells.