designed an apparatus in which either cylinder could be rotated with a length-to-gap aspect ratio
as high as nearly 400 to minimize endwall effects. Ball bearings and heavy iron supports were
used to assure the integrity of the apparatus. The outer cylinder was precision bored, ground
and polished glass so as to use ‘the method employed by Osborne Reynolds ... to inject a thin
continuous stream of colouring matter,’ [2, p. 330] a neutrally buoyant fluorescene dye. Using
this apparatus, Taylor could directly compare the measured rotational speed for transition to
unstable flow and the subsequent vortex spacing to his theoretical stability prediction as well
as photograph the vortex structure.

Another remarkable aspect of the paper is the degree to which the experiments connected with
the mathematical results for linear stability. In fact, Drazin and Reid comment that ‘the closeness
of the agreement between his theoretical and experimental results was without precedent in
the history of fluid mechanics’ [7, p. 105]. In fact, Taylor’s stability analysis and experiments
get to the root of the equations of motion for a viscous fluid that were formulated by Claude-
Louis Navier [12] and George Gabriel Stokes [13], which we now know as the Navier-Stokes
equations. A crucial issue that arose in the late 1800s was the measurement of the fluid viscosity,
which is precisely the problem that Couette and Mallock were considering experimentally in their
carefully designed concentric, differentially rotating cylinder apparatuses [8,9]. Of course, it was
the Taylor instability that made the results for these measurements confusing. When the inner
cylinder rotates with the outer cylinder stationary the centrifugal instability appears only above a
certain rotational speed, while for the outer cylinder rotating it is the viscous instability leading to
turbulence that appears. Another question at the time was the appropriate boundary conditions
to use in the mathematical analysis of fluid flow. Physicist Russ Donnelly noted ‘that Stokes is
concerned that the boundary conditions at the solid surfaces are unknown’ and that ‘nearly a
century would elapse [from Stokes’ 1845 work] before the no-slip condition for a fluid at a solid