states derive, emergence has been proposed to be measured by employing a ratio between excess
entropy and statistical complexity [8,10]. In the context of multivariate stochastic processes, causal
emergence and downward causation have been proposed to be measured by employing variants
of the unique information, which are based on the partial information decomposition [11] and
integrated information decomposition [12].

However, in the context of deterministic processes, statistics faces insuperable obstacles when
trying to quantify irreducible information content [13]. Being one of the well-known results
in algorithmic information theory (AIT) [1], any resource-bounded computational procedure
that tries to quantify the amount of irreducible information content in a single encoded object
returns distorted values in general. Although the entropy of its contiguous blocks of length
m is maximal, this distortion is, for example, seen in Borel-normal sequences of length n that
are in fact computable (and therefore logarithmically compressible) [14], where m <n. In the
context of networks and graphs, there are also highly compressible graphs in which the degree-
sequence entropy is maximal [15]. Thus, if one is interested in measuring irreducible information
content (or measuring the emergence of new irreducible information) in deterministic systems,
which are free of stochasticity, employing any fixed and computable measure based only on
finding and exploiting statistical patterns (in order to approximate the most compressed form that
computes the system’s behaviour) will exhibit limitations and face these obstacles in general. The
main limitation stems from the fact that most computable patterns are not periodic, the kind of
regularity that a statistical approach would be able to characterize. Computable but non-periodic
patterns will tend to have high statistical complexity (e.g. Shannon entropy with no access to the
underlying probability distribution) but low algorithmic complexity, meaning that a statistical
approach would assign them a random nature that, for all mechanistic and cause-and-effect
purposes, should not.