mathematics by introducing new concepts, proving non-trivial theorems, constructing further
effective mathematical models of the phenomenological world. With ‘extension of the domain’
I mean the enlargement of the mathematical knowledge by addition, not properly a progress
rendering stale what has been done previously. I do not want to discuss the problem whether the
mathematical results are discoveries or creations. The ontological answer we give whatever, for a
scholar trying to do mathematics in a way that we can define creative in the vague sense above,
the question has no special interest. Who works this way inside mathematics considers doing it
as a creative act. Commonly, nobody asks whether the Ode to Joy is a discovery or formulates the
same question for the whole Ninth Symphony, or the Goldberg Variations, the Cello Suites, or the
Jupiter symphony, just to list some examples. Although these musical masterpieces are implicit
in the manifold of possible combinations of the notes on the pentagram, we all believe that their
writing is a creative act and we can say they are art, even if the definition of art is a matter of
disputations. In fact, we are culturally educated to think that they are art but also, instinctively,
in listening to them we perceive ‘something’ we cannot define explicitly and we go in some
sense beyond the notions we have. Implicitly, these masterpieces indicate even the constitutive
nature of art: as it is the matter that defines in a sense the physical space perceived by the human
observer around himself, so the works are those indicating—without avoiding ambiguity in the
definition—the nature of the aesthetic experience. We can agree with Luigi Pareyson that there is
possibility of art in the entire human diligence in the sense of the formativeness of our actions.
Such a possibility expresses itself in the ability of performing a piece of work ‘in a way extremely
singular and personal, unmistakable though paradigmatic, and where we can speak about style,
we have to speak of art’ (my translation of the Italian original in [62, p. 64]). Then the question,
in mathematics as in all the other human creative activities, is the level of the aesthetic content,
its density in a work and the permanence in time of the work itself. It is not simply a question
