the currently favourable ones (cf. [106,107] and references therein). A concrete realization of
these ideas was originally introduced by Randall & Sundrum [108] in 2000, where the Einstein
cosmological equations are modified by the addition of extra terms coming from the brane
embedding in the bulk space, as well as the bulk space itself.

In the resulting set-up new possibilities are possible for inflation, gravity ‘induced’ on the
brane by localizing matter, or more general cosmological dynamics (see [61], ch. 10 for a short
review). One may imagine a number of such lower-dimensional universes coexisting in the
parent space and moving in one or more of the extra dimensions. Using the mathematics of
submanifolds, it is not very difficult to describe the geometric properties of this set-up as well
as the modified Einstein equations, cf. [109,110].

In fact, there are several scenarios in the literature about possible brane models of the early
universe, a particularly interesting one being the ekpyrotic universe proposed in 2001 by Khoury
et al. [111] (see [112] for a review with many references). Here, two parallel branes approach
each other, collide, and then rebound, moving in one of the spatial dimensions available. The big
bang occurs as a bounce periodically an infinite number of times, each time there is a collision,
and then there is a cyclic process of contraction, bounce and expansion, like in the old Tolman
oscillating universe. There is a stage of early acceleration in this model that keeps the entropy from
diverging in the cycle-to-cycle evolution after many cycles, and according to the authors there are
no infinities in the defining quantities like in the standard cosmological model. The ekpyrotic
model is but one of many possible bouncing cosmological models (see [113] for a related review).

Braneworld models nowadays abound. They have different motivations than the original
brane models, but they all show the richness of brane cosmological ideas. Two such models are