plots were made with the ggp Lot 2 package [36]. (Online version in colour.)

analysing items. First, examiners assessed the images of the prints for suitability for comparisons.
If examiners found an item suitable for comparison, they then could enter a conclusion of
Inconclusive, Identification or Exclusion.

For simplicity, we focus on the inferential goal of estimating the false positive error rate: the
proportion of times that examiners conclude ‘Identification’ for different source items. There were
126 unique different source items in the dataset (i.e. 126 items that received at least one response
from an examiner). Of these, 117 (93%) were marked inconclusive by at least one examiner.
All of these items were analysed by multiple examiners, and the median number of examiners
evaluating each of the 117 items was 22. There was seldom agreement across examiners about
whether a particular item was inconclusive. In fact, the majority of examiners agreed an item was
inconclusive for less than 30% of the 117 items. There did not appear to be a strong relationship
between the proportion of examiners who marked an item as inconclusive and occurrence of
a false positive on the item. In total, there were 12 false positives. All 12 errors were made
on different items. The errors were all made on an item where at least one examiner reached
a conclusion of inconclusive. However, only 3 of the 12 errors were made on items where the
majority of examiners arrived at a conclusion of inconclusive. In figure 2, we offer a visualization
of these observations. In this plot, each shape represents one of the 117 different source items
for which at least one examiner reached a decision of inconclusive. The colour represents the
proportion of examiners who reached a decision of inconclusive on the item. Red indicates
that only a minority of examiners reached a decision of inconclusive, while green indicates the
majority of examiners reached a decision of inconclusive. The shapes indicate whether a false
positive was made by an examiner on the item: the plus sign indicates no false positive errors