quantities (zonal mean velocities and temperatures, and their anomalies) are calculated along
constant density surfaces rather than on constant depth surfaces. Xu et al. [78] performed this
calculation at 26.5°N in a numerical model study and found an overturning (diapycnal) heat
transport of 1.29PW and a horizontal (isopycnal) heat transport of —0.05 PW, adding up to
their total model heat transport of 1.24 PW. The same calculation performed on the RAPID data
yields respective estimates of 1.32 and —0.12 PW for these quantities, adding up to the total heat
transport of 1.20 PW. In both cases, the negative isopycnal contribution by the gyre circulation is


because waters flowing northward in the Florida Current are colder (and correspondingly fresher)
on the same density surfaces than the waters flowing southward in the gyre interior. This is well
known from observations [76] and is also reproduced by the Xu et al. [78] model results, and
can be explained by the fact that the high salinities of subtropical gyre thermocline waters are
gradually eroded by mixing with fresher waters in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico along
their pathway into the WBC system. The lower salinities in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico
are, in turn, related to the influence of tropical waters moving northward in the upper branch of
the large-scale AMOC via the tropical WBC system and by North Brazil Current rings [76,79].

Based on this negative isopycnal gyre contribution, and an offsetting small northward heat
transport of 0.06 PW linked to subtropical mode water (STMW) formation, Xu et al. [78] postulated
that the net heat transport by the gyre circulation was effectively zero. They argued that Talley’s
high-end estimate was too large because, in their words, ‘the near-surface layer of the Florida
Current is dominated by relatively fresh water from the tropical/South Atlantic that is best
regarded as part of the larger-scale AMOC’. However, this neglects the possibility that much
of this surface water in the Florida Current is converted to thermocline waters as part of the