maximum H, (orange) and the 90th percentile of H, (blue), both with an H, threshold of 1.5 m. The upper and lower bounds
of the orange shaded areas are the same as for (a). Dotted lines correspond to the same quantities but when only the high-
confidence wave-affected area (WAF > 0.25) is considered in Sq). (d) Same as (c) but this time for Si, the percentage of the
modelled wMIZ surface area that matches the observed wMIZ area from IS-2. The upper and lower bounds of the darker orange
shaded area are reversed compared to (b). The lighter orange shaded area still represents the sensitivity using a maximum
value of H, as low as 0.5 m, and Sig is computed using Avo: The thin solid line with crosses represents the evolution of 54), with
Ano computed using cells with more than 10 000, instead of 30 000, segments. (Online version in colour.)


belongs to the observed wMIZ but not to the modelled one, and Aj; as the area where the model
and observation agree that a given location belongs to the wMIZ. A classical way of assessing
the ability of a model to capture an extent is to use Ay; and the errors Aig and Ag to assign a
model score [45]. In our case, we are challenged by the fact that an absence of detected waves is
not necessarily indicative of a region without waves, particularly if an area has few wave events
in each month. Thus, the IS-2 dataset can provide a large number of false negatives, and a low
WAF value (i.e. no waves detected) is less predictive of wave state than a high WAF value. This
is visible in figures 1a and 2, where areas with a high density of detected waves (WAF > 0.1) are
interspersed with missing values and locations with WAF =0.

A consequence is that the Aig mismatch area can be significantly larger than the matching area
Ai, as the modelled wMIZ extent necessarily encompasses a large number of missing values
or locations with no detected waves (figure 1a). This is illustrated in figure 3b, which shows the
dependence of Aj1, Aig and Agi, along with the wMIZ extent, on the threshold value applied to
H, to define the wMIZ. We can see that Aj9 follows similar behaviour to the wMIZ extent, being
