and their explorations for the dynamic case were subsequently complemented by Norris ef al. in
[12], where analytical expressions for the device amplitude coefficients for general incidence were
given.

It was recently shown by O’Neill et al. in [13] that a small number of active monopole sources
were sufficient to cloak a clamped inclusion in a Kirchhoff plate. A different approach, based on
[8-10], using multipole devices was devised by Futhazar et al. [14] to create a finite ‘still’ region
and to ensure that only the incident field was present in the far field. O’Neill et al. later extended
their investigation to the cloaking of coated inclusions in thin plates for frequency ranges in which
scattering resonances occur [15] and to the cloaking of finite clusters of pins in thin plates [16].

Here, we present the idea of using active evanescent multipole devices to cloak and ‘shield’
an inclusion in a thin plate. In particular, we make use of the fact that the solution to the time-
harmonic biharmonic equation consists of not only Hankel functions of the first kind, HY, but
also Macdonald functions K, (see [17]). By shielding, we convey a finite region of ‘stillness’ in
the vicinity of the inclusion. The reason we use the quotation marks is to emphasize, here and in
what follows, the approximate nature of the stillness (or silence for acoustics) of these regions.
It should be noted that, although the Green’s function for the biharmonic equation is in fact
bounded, we use solely the Macdonald functions to construct our elastic cloak and therefore
consent to infinite fields at the device centres, since Kg(z) ~ log(z) and K,(z) ~ 1/z” as z > 0. Unlike
the Hankel functions, however (used as a basis to formulate the acoustic exterior cloak in [8—-10]),
the fields emanating from the evanescent devices decay at infinity and thus require less attention
than their acoustic analogue. It is known that clamped inclusions in thin plates possess the most
scattering signature, as illustrated in figure 1a. We preview our results with the use of three active
evanescent devices in figure 1b.