As noted above, these questions could be and, beginning at least with Kant, have been posed
concerning classical mechanics, where our descriptive (visualizable) idealizations are more in
accord with our phenomenal experience. The question has also been posed concerning the degree,
if any, to which the mathematical architecture of relativity (more removed from this experience, as
noted above) corresponds to the architecture of nature, as opposed to serving as a mathematical
model for correct predictions, in this case, ideally exact, concerning relativistic phenomena [17].
I shall return to these questions in the next section.

‘Realist theories are sometimes also called ontological theories. The term ‘ontology’ has additional philosophical connotations
that require qualifications. These qualifications, however, would still allow one to see ontological theories as realist in the
present sense, which makes these terms interchangeable as far as this article is concerned.

5Mathematical realism, sometimes also known as mathematical Platonism, is something else, in part by virtue of the fact that
it deals with mental rather than physical reality, and it will not be addressed here.


Visualizable models comprise a particular type of representational realist models. As other key
concepts under discussion here, the concept of visualization has various and sometimes divergent
meanings. Feynman diagrams are sometimes seen as visualizations of quantum processes of high
energy governed by quantum field theory. Helpful as they are, however, Feynman diagrams
are merely diagrams (heuristic devices): they do not really represent the quantum processes
to which they refer, even if one does not hold that these processes are not visualizable or
otherwise representable, or even conceivable, as they are according to the interpretation adopted
by the article. The role of Feynman diagrams is to help one to work more easily with the
formalism of quantum electrodynamics or quantum field theory in order to make probabilistic