The first appeals to the same theory, CRS [76,79], described above. Under this account, the : &
meaning of a symbol is derived (mostly or entirely) from its relation to other symbols, ie. its role iy
in the thoughts and inferences in which it participates. The ability to refer may be part of its role, : S
but it need not be the primary part. For example, we are happy to use noun phrases like the first [fg

baby born on 1st July 2037, which acquire their meaning via definition, not by virtue of referring
to any real entity. These arguments are not even limited to abstract or hypothetical concepts.
[80] studied children’s understanding of the concept raccoon and revealed that no perceptual,
functional, or in any way observable properties appeared to alter beliefs about what makes a
raccoon a raccoon, leading to the conclusion that the meaning of raccoon is some unobservable
‘essence’. [81] Thus argue that many such common concepts are embedded in theories and that
their meaning is derived from the role they play in those theories. Within CRS, one can argue
that in fact all words acquire their meaning in the same way. Under such a theory, the question of
whether LLMs encode meaning depends on the structure of the concepts they encode internally,
and the relationship between those concepts.

The above argument might be considered an internalist account, in which meaning depends
only on the structure of the internal representations. However, even if we are seeking an externalist
account of meaning, there is a line of argument via which to defend LLMs. Specifically, for
many (most!) concepts that we ‘know the meaning of’, we do not observe their referents directly.
Rather, the words retain their referential power via a causal chain [82] linking the symbol to the
external world. Consider, for example, the meaning of Jean Pavlick (my paternal grandmother).
Almost certainly no one reading this has met, or even seen a picture of, my grandmother. You
are learning the meaning of the phrase Jean Pavlick just now. Still, this does not make the word
meaningless, or even reference-less. Rather, you inherit the grounded meaning from me, who has