Some years ago, our group reported on band enhancement beyond that of conventional SERS
using an effect we termed as photo-induced enhanced Raman spectroscopy, or PIERS [13]. In
our PIERS experiments, hybrid noble metal-supported titanium dioxide (TiO2) substrates were
irradiated under prolonged UV light prior to the deposition of an organic adsorbate, used as
target molecule. Band enhancement was attributed to an interaction between the noble metal-
molecule-semiconductor system and photogenerated oxygen vacancies (Vo) at the semiconductor
surface [14]. Photogenerated Vo states introduce donor sites at approximately 0.8eV below the
conduction band (CB) edge of TiOz, [15] which may allow for the promotion of electrons into the
CB under laser irradiation. These electrons can then transfer into the Fermi level of noble-metal
nanoparticles and return to Vo states, strengthening the CE contribution in the Raman signal.
Formation of surface Vo sites under UVC-light irradiation (4 =254nm) was later confirmed via
time-resolved atomic force microscopy [16]. The proposed mechanism based on Vo was also
supported by the fact that PIERS is a transient effect and the enhanced signals decreased within a
range of 30-60 min upon exposure to air, which was attributed to the loss of surface vacancies [17].

The use of PIERS as a sensing technique has been reviewed recently [18]. As it has been pointed
out, different operation procedures have been followed, either ex situ—with irradiation of the
substrate before or after deposition of the target molecule—or in situ, with irradiation during
the Raman analysis. PIERS studies have been applied using a wide range of substrate materials,
from single semiconductors to hybrid noble metal-insulators. The influence of key parameters,
such as irradiation conditions (wavelength, irradiance, illumination time) or substrate structure
and morphology, has been discussed using a range of target adsorbates. Most of these studies
have explained the PIERS mechanism based on the formation of oxygen vacancies, as indicated
in the recent review and references therein [18]. Other authors have questioned the formation of
oxygen vacancies and attributed the PIERS effect to photo-induced charge-transfer (CT) processes