producing such proofs and that therefore Vn, > 0 is a theorem. As we move towards covering :8

more complex mathematical domains, we believe this notion of library learning—of useful results
in addition to solution strategies—will be important.

Finally, our approach to learning tactics relies on first encountering many examples of its use:
a tactic is deemed useful if it would have been helpful in solving many past problems. But human
mathematician are often able to perform this inductive leap after just a single example. For an
example, consider Erdés’ lower bound on the Ramsey number R(s); see [38] for a discussion of
this result and its significance. This is a result to a purely combinatorial problem that applies
a probabilistic argument in a surprising way. This single example is most often enough for
human mathematicians to realize a potentially fruitful new tactic; this has indeed turned into
the Probabilistic Method, now widely used in combinatorics. The fact that this tactic stands
out so clearly when one reads about this result poses several puzzling questions. What makes
such a solution so surprising, and certain parts of it especially interesting? Answers for these
questions would help us understand a core notion in the human practice mathematics: not only
some statements are true and some are false but also some are more interesting than others.
Computationally characterizing what interestingness means might be an important goal towards
having computers be able to provide insights into human mathematics [39]. After all, that would
imply not just proving new results but also recognizing which ones are significant.

Data accessibility. All the code, data and configuration files needed to reproduce the experiments in this paper
are available online at https://github.com/gpoesia/peano.
Authors’ contributions. G.P.: conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis, funding acquisition, investigation,
methodology, resources, software, validation, visualization, writing—original draft, writing—review and