Before turning our attention to lasing itself, in figure 1, we plot the populations of the ground
state ions (i.e. those with two electrons in the K shell, and varying numbers of L-shell electrons)
as a function of time for both the low- and high-density cases. Note all possible charge states are
included in the simulations, but only the relevant ones are shown here. It can be immediately seen
that in the low-density case, the charge states that predominate have an even number of L-shell
electrons, whereas in the solid-density case, as time proceeds, all of the successive charge states
are produced. For example, at a time of 30 fs in the low-density case, charge states 4+ and 6+ have
populations several times greater than those of 3+ and 5+. This alternation in the populations of
the charge states in the low-density case was demonstrated in one of the first experiments ever
to be performed at LCLS, where the charge states produced when neon gas was irradiated by
the FEL pulse were measured [28]. The results agreed well with simulations, including those
undertaken using a previous version of the code used here [29]. This phenomenon is due to the
fact that (assuming the FEL X-ray energy chosen lies above the K-shell photoionization energy
for all of the charge states to be considered), after each K-shell photoionization event, creating a
K-shell hole, the dominant decay mechanism will be via the Auger effect, resulting in the filling of
the K-shell hole by an L electron, and the ejection of another L electron into the continuum: thus,
the absorption of the FEL photon results in double ionization. In contrast, for the solid-density
case, the high electron density can cause collisional ionization of the L-shell, resulting in all of
the ground state ions being produced, as can readily be seen in figure 1 (note the small kinks in
the populations of charge state 6+ in the solid case are due to the prediction by the IPD model
used—Stewart-Pyatt—of rebinding of higher atomic shells. As we shall see, lasing will not occur
on these higher charge states, and as stated in §1, our overall conclusions are independent of IPD
model chosen). This lack of alternation in the charge states produced in the solid-density case
was commented upon in work reporting the first observation of X-ray spectra from solid targets
irradiated by the focused output of the LCLS [30]. Indeed, as we shall see, it is this very effect