Secondly, a compilation of studies at the turn of the century [26-29] yielded a description of
LSW production whereby the properties and transport variability within the DWBC were not a
sole function of deep-water formation. Instead, boundary current transport, property gradients
between the interior and the boundary current and the strength of the eddy field were suggested
to play a role in setting the exit transport and properties of LSW. Thus, downstream LSW
variability could not be assumed to reflect convective activity in the central Labrador basin. As
such, the need to ascertain the linkage between convective variability in the basin interior and
water mass variability in the boundary current was apparent.

Finally, it was suggested that the linkage between AMOC variability and deep-water formation
could be impacted by wind-driven changes that drive overturning variability. Since the density
field near the basin boundaries sets the overall shear of the basin-wide geostrophic circulation,
wind-forced changes in that density field can modify AMOC strength [30]. In fact, AMOC changes
on seasonal time scales have been linked to wind-forced Ekman pumping near the eastern
boundary of the RAPID array [31] and similar processes involving Rossby wave transmission of
Ekman pumping signals to the western boundary have been implicated on interannual to decadal
time scales [32]. In short, it was recognized that AMOC variability at subpolar latitudes could also
be affected by wind forcing.

Thus, while modelling studies had suggested a linkage between LSW formation and AMOC
variability, a review during the OSNAP planning period [33] concluded that no conclusive
observational evidence for a link between dense water formation in the Labrador Sea and AMOC
variability had emerged to date. Thus, OSNAP was planned to provide sustained trans-basin
measures of AMOC variability, contemporaneous with measures of dense water mass variability
and basin-scale wind forcing in order to sort out this relationship.