violation of the symmetrization postulate at the fundamental level (see for example [83] for a very
accurate experiment). Since these properties of quantum systems determine the way in which
atomic levels are filled, they play a key role in explaining the structure of matter.

But there is more. The notions of identity and individuality become problematic when we
try to apply them to multiparticle quantum systems of the same kind. The problem is that there
are experimental situations in which there is no operational procedure to distinguish between
(for instance) two photons or two electrons (see de Barros & Holik [84], where some simple
examples are discussed in an introductory manner). Even worse, in certain cases, there is no
robust operational way to reidentify a quantum system at different moments of time, as if a
quantum system were not subject to the constraint of continuous existence that characterizes
macroscopic objects.® Once a photon enters into an aggregate of indistinguishable photons, there
is no meaningful way to reidentify it. The fact that these features lead to problems concerning the
notions of identity, sameness and individuality was soon recognized by Born [86] and Schrédinger
[85], and later stressed by Post [17] and Manin [88] among others. Now, should we push their
analyses further and try to conceive (and even mathematically formalize) a rigorous notion of non-
individual or the notions of identity and individuality might still be applicable to quantum systems
5When we say ‘two of them’, we are using the fact that in many circumstances it is physically meaningful to say that quantum
field modes have well-defined occupation numbers. Therefore, assertions such as ‘there are two quanta in a given state’ are

meaningful. However, it is worth stressing that this does not mean that we are necessarily endorsing an ontology of particles
(for a clear conceptual analysis of the distinction between the notions of particle and quanta see [79, Chap. 2, pp. 16-36]).

This assumption of continuity for macroscopic objects has been described by Schrédinger in the following terms: ‘If a familiar
article, say an earthenware jug, disappears from your room, you are quite sure that somebody must have taken it away. If