theory of (Ehresmann and Cartan) connections on principal fibre bundles [114].

The problem of understanding the epistemic and/or ontological scope of the notion of 8
gauge symmetry is one of the main conceptual issues posited by these theories (see for instance : =
[21-23,53,115-122]). We could summarize the conundrum posited by gauge symmetries by : >
saying that the presence of symmetry transformations which by definition do not produce any 13
observable effect seem to have nonetheless direct (or at least indirect) empirical significance : =
(some examples are listed below). Also here the landscape of philosophical interpretations of :R
gauge symmetries is organized around two massive opposing views, namely the position which [3
has been called the received view (based on the thesis that gauge symmetries do not have direct : 2
empirical significance) [121], and the corresponding alternative views. On the one hand, the : iS
presence of gauge symmetries is understood as a mere consequence of the mathematical ‘surplus |
structure’ [22] resulting from the fact that a unique physical configuration can be described 7

by using different coordinate systems [116,119,120].!? In Witten’s terms, ‘gauge symmetries are
redundancies in the mathematical description of a physical system rather than properties of
the system itself’ [124]. According to this argumentative line, the act of choosing a particular
gauge adds non-physical structure, and the corresponding gauge symmetry guarantees that the
physical or ‘observable’ predictions do not depend on this arbitrary choice (i.e. that they are
invariant under gauge transformations). It would always be possible—at least in principle—to
project the coordinate-dependent description to a coordinate-independent one in which all the
redundant ‘surplus structure’ is removed out (see for instance the notion of reduced phase space in
[109,111]). According to the received view, the fact that a coordinate-dependent description might
be useful to perform certain calculations should not blind us to the fact that the election of such a
description is only a matter of convenience.