ask a question, 27 x 37, and get an answer, 999. The two expressions have different senses and we
must do something (make a proof or a calculation [---]) to show that these two senses have the
same [reference].’ [145, pp. 1-2]. Is it possible to make this kind of abuse of notation rigorous? Is
it possible to define a notion of equality that explicitly encodes this computational dimension? Is
it possible to introduce a notion of equality that somehow takes into account Fregean distinction
between sense and reference?

Now, the notion of mathematical equality (and, a fortiori, the notion of identity) has undergone
a far-reaching process of reconceptualization that started with the development of category theory,
continued with the enhancement of the latter to higher category theory, and has recently entered
into a new phase with the development of homotopy type theory in the early new millennium [26,27]
(see also [28] and references therein). Category theory made clear that the notion of strict equality
is indeed too strict. This fact motivated the ‘stretching’ of the notion of strict equality into the
notion of isomorphism. It soon became clear that a full-fledged development of this weakening of
the notion of strict equality requires us to extend category theory to higher category theory. In
turn, we could say that homotopy type theory focuses on the sector of higher category theory
that encodes this extension of the notion of equality, namely the higher categories known as oo-
groupoids. Very briefly, the main new ingredient of homotopy type theory is the structure given by
the so-called propositional equality between terms of a type. Given two terms of a type a,b: X, the
propositional equality a =x b is itself a type whose terms are the concrete identifications between
a and b, that is, the proofs that a and b are equal (which means that the proposition is false if the
type a=  b is empty). Since two proofs p,q :a=x b of a propositional equality are not necessarily
equal (i.e. the uniqueness of identity proofs principle does not hold), a propositional equality a =x b
might envelop a complex structure of higher identifications. It follows that a type has the structure
of an oo-groupoid which—according to the so-called homotopy hypothesis—can be understood as