realist interpretations of QM, which are possible. On the other hand, this identification is no longer
possible in dealing with quantum phenomena, regardless of interpretation (although realism is,
again, possible), because of the irreducible role of measuring instruments in the constitution


of quantum phenomena, a feature that grounded Bohr’s interpretation in all its versions. Bohr
adjusted, sometimes significantly, his interpretation. This requires one to specify to which version
of his interpretation one refers, which I shall do, while focusing on his ultimate, strong RWR,
interpretation.> As, however, Bohr argued already in the so-called Como lecture of 1927, which
presented his first interpretation of QM, in classical physics and relativity ‘our... description
of physical phenomena [is] based of the idea that the phenomena concerned may be observed
without disturbing them appreciably’ [6] (v. 1, p. 53; emphasis added). Bohr is careful to refer to the
idea and hence the assumption rather than saying that such is in fact the case. This assumption
is, however, workable in these theories for all practical purposes. By contrast, ‘any observation
of atomic phenomena will involve an interaction [of the object under investigation] with the agency of
observation not to be neglected’ [6] (v. 1, p. 54; emphasis added). It is the irreducible nature of this
interaction and thus the interference of technology into physical reality in quantum physics that
is responsible, via for changing the nature of causality and probability, from classical to quantum,
and of the way the arrow of events works in quantum physics. This interaction gives rise to a
quantum phenomenon rather than disturbs the object observed [6] (v. 2, p. 64).

In RWR interpretations, QM does not represent the physical emergence of quantum
phenomena, which emergence is placed even beyond conception in strong RWR interpretations,
such as Bohr’s ultimate interpretation or the interpretation adopted here. These interpretations
assume that nothing can be said, by means of QM or otherwise, or even thought about what