of QM as different from classical physics or relativity.) Rigorously speaking, what is reversible

°}. Barbour adjusted his view on this point in his more recent work, in principle allowing for the arrow of time (he does
consider the arrow of events), in connection with thermodynamics, within, however, a realist framework [20].


in them is not time, but the value of the parameter f in these equations. f is connected to
measurements, which respect the arrow of events, defined the ‘the irreversibility of recordings’
invoked by Bohr, in the double sense—from a quantum phenomenon to the ultimate reality
defining them and that of the later to an earlier phenomenon in any sequence, in which case
the arrow of event, in time, or time, is manifested in our readings of the clocks [6] (v. 3, p. 5).

It might be added that symmetry considerations are crucial in considering and in fact requiring
the arrow of events in QFT, as it is currently constituted. Using for the moment the standard
language of time rather than events, time-reversal symmetry is prohibited insofar as quantum
theory holds, in view of the CPT (charge, parity and time reversal) symmetry, a fundamental
symmetry of physical laws under the simultaneous transformation of charge conjugation (C),
parity transformation (P) and time reversal (T). CPT is the only combination of C, P and T
observed to be exact symmetry of the ultimate constitution of nature, assuming that QFT holds.
The CPT theorem says that any Lorentz invariant local quantum field theory with a Hermitian
Hamiltonian must have CPT symmetry. This implies that every violation of the combined
symmetry of two of its components, say, CP, must have a corresponding violation of the third,
such as T.!° We know, however, that CP is experimentally violated, because P is violated in
weak interactions, which was an unexpected 1956 discovery, for which T.-D. Lee and C. N. Yang
(who predicted it), and C.-S. Wu (who experimentally confirmed it), won the 1957 Nobel Prize. It