expect these answers and their (rough) statistics in advance because of these classically causal
relationships. In the case of quantum phenomena, at least in RWR interpretations, there are no
classically causal relationships in any situation, and if there are, they are much more difficult to
establish and are certainly debated. There is no such debate concerning the classically causal
psychological relationships just indicated, even if only in some situations. This may be one of
the reasons that, while Q-L models deal with non-additive, non-Kolmogorovian, probabilities,
they are rarely the same as QM mathematically, and they are multiple, as opposed to the single
theory, QM or, in high-energy regimes, QFT, predicting all quantum phenomena. There is no
Planck’s constant, h, either, which is responsible for the mathematics of QM in all of its aspects,
and which, as noted, reflects certain fundamental aspects of nature, assuming that QFT holds
all the way down to the Planck scale. In quantum physics, at least in RWR interpretations,
once one measures one complementary variable, say, the position, no expectations at all are
experimentally possible as concerns a future value of the other at any future point. In fact,
this is true even if one assumes classical causality, as in Bohmian mechanics. In other words,
when one is asked the second question, concerning the momentum, in any given sequences,
the information carried over from the preceding question, concerning the position, does not and,
in principle cannot, influence the response to this new question, or the future predictions from
this point on. According to Wang and Busemeyer: ‘When one is asked a subsequent question,
information carried over from the preceding question provides a context for the construction
of the second and influences the subsequent response’ [33] (p. 2). That may often be true in
psychology and human decision making, but is never the case in quantum physics, beginning,
again, with the fact that quantum objects do not possess information. No information carried
from an earlier position measurement (answering the question about the position of the object)
has any relevance for any subsequent momentum measurement (asking the question about the
momentum of the object). This fact renders this earlier information meaningless as concerns