without loss of generality.

In figure 2, we present the scattered field @sc for a representative thin-walled, moderately
thick-walled, and extremely thick-walled resonator, where all resonators possess the same outer
radius b and aperture width 22. In each setting, we examine the scattered response at the first
Helmholtz resonance frequency, ky, satisfying the relevant condition in (3.12), and at the low
frequency k;;/2 (i.e. away from the resonance frequency), to consider how the field profile is
modified as we approach the resonance. In the thin-walled case, we observe a field enhancement
of over two orders of magnitude in the transition from k=ky/2 to k=ky, with ¢sc taking a
maximum value at the resonator mouth. A similar behaviour is observed for the moderately
thick-walled case (h = 4), although we find that the field enhancement is approximately halved.
This reduction continues for the extremely thick-walled resonator where the field enhancement
is now slightly over one order of magnitude, and is likely due to the fact that the volume inside
the resonator decreases, since we increase the aperture neck length 2m while keeping the outer
radius b constant. Accordingly, to achieve the strongest field enhancements, we advise that the
resonator wall thickness be taken as thin as possible. Additionally, the strongest backscattering is
observed in the thin- and extremely thick-walled representative configurations. For reference, a
plane wave of incidence angle 6inc = 1/6 is considered in all cases.

In figure 3, we compute the scattering efficiency Qsc (following the definition for the scattering
cross-section Gs¢ in (4.5)) for the three resonator configurations considered in figure 2. For all
Qse figures, we superpose the result for a closed Neumann cylinder for reference (dashed red
curves). We find that for all resonator configurations, a considerable enhancement is observed
in the scattering efficiency at the first Helmholtz resonance frequency ky (obtained by solving
(3.12) for each geometry), and also observe that the Qs. curves tend to that of a closed Neumann