and in practice intractable process, which circumstances require the recourse to probabilistic or if
statistical estimates. As discussed earlier, however, these models presuppose that the behaviour 3
of individual constituents of such systems is described by causal representational models of .
classical mechanics, which would predict their behaviour ideally exactly were it practically
possible. Models of this type, especially local ones, appear to be difficult, if not impossible, to
develop or even to assume in the case of quantum phenomena, either by an interpretation of the
standard quantum-mechanical formalism or by way of alternative theories, which lead to non-
realist interpretations of quantum mechanics in the spirit of Copenhagen. Neither situation finds
real parallels in quantum-like modelling beyond physics, because the corresponding theories there
do not deal with individual processes (of whatever kind) either of the type considered in classical
mechanics or of the type considered in quantum mechanics. There, moreover, this individuality
manifests itself in the role of Planck’s constant h, which has no equivalent in cognitive psychology
or economics, or anywhere outside physics, at least thus far. In fact, the applications of quantum-
like models in these fields are rarely concerned with how the data in question comes about,
although it is generally assumed that there are processes, psychological (or neurological) and
social, that are responsible for these data. This allows one to deal, in a quantum-mechanical-like
fashion and by using a quantum-like formalism, with estimating probabilities of discrete events.
This is similar to the situation that led Heisenberg to his discovery of quantum mechanics. Once
again, however, there is a crucial difference, because the quantum experiments in question deal
with rigorously defined ultimate individual constituents of matter, elementary particles, to which
the model of classical mechanics or possibly any local classical-like model could not apply.

Moreover, whether such quantum-like models are required in these fields beyond physics, in
the way they appear to be in physics, or whether classical-like models suffice remains an open
question. It may, it is true, be difficult to assume that classical-like models would give quantum-