
Figure 5. Comparison of the Turing-pattern activator-inhibitor model and the positional-information annihilation model.
Model components that are identified as equivalent between the two models are indicated with numbers in parentheses.
(Online version in colour.)

components, such as molecular species, diffusion, types of interactions, boundary conditions,
and global aspects of the solutions, as vertices, with edges and higher-dimensional simplices
representing interconnections between the model components, such as an edge between a
molecular species and its diffusion. It is then possible to construct a distance function between
pairs of labelled simplicial complexes, corresponding to the total number of simplices that occur
in only one of the two simplicial complexes, that provides a measure of conceptual similarity
between the models, so that a larger distance corresponds to a greater conceptual difference. Such
analysis shows that some of the models previously reported to be TP mechanisms are in fact
closely related to models proposed as generating PI patterns (and vice versa). Indeed, in figure 4,
we compare the distances between five PI models and four TP models. The PI models are the
linear gradient, synthesis-diffusion-degradation, opposing gradients, annihilation, and scaling
by modulation models, referred to as P1—P5, respectively; and the TP models are the activator-
inhibitor, substrate depletion, inhibition of an inhibition, and modulation models, referred to as
T1-T4, respectively. In some cases, there are even deeper relationships between models, which
can be revealed by identifying components between the models that are conceptually equivalent,
and then looking for corresponding transformations of the associated simplicial complexes [54].
In particular, applying this methodology to the TP activator-inhibitor model and the positional-
information annihilation model reveals that the two models are, at least from a mathematical
perspective, equivalent and effectively identical. We illustrate this equivalence graphically in
figure 5. The upshot of this analysis is that we may able to consider mechanistic models in