the assumption that the earth has a fluid core surrounded by a crust capable of plastic flow
once a certain stress difference has been reached. Assuming that the radius of the fluid core
is 0:545 of the radius of the earth, he finds that a strength of some 150 x 10° dynes/cm.? is
required at the earth’s surface, falling to about half this value at the bottom of the crust. If

= it is assumed that the earth is fluid out to 0-9 of its radius, a strength of about 330 x 10° dynes/
© cm.? is necessary in the crust. Such values are by no means excessive compared with values
5 of the order of 10° dynes/cm.? required in the upper layers to explain the support of moun-
& tain ranges of the size of the Himalaya. Experiments show that under laboratory conditions
§ the crushing strength of basalt is 1:5 10° dynes/cm.? Jeffreys also considers that the
© occurrence of earthquakes with foci as deep as 600 to 700 km. indicates that considerable
5 strength must exist at such depths. On the other hand, it seems difficult to reconcile these
+s results with the observed fact that areas where sediment has accumulated, such as the edge of
6 the continental shelf, appear to be in isostatic equilibrium. The uplift in Fennoscandia as a
£ result of the recession of the ice cap also indicates that in such areas readjustment can take
place comparatively quickly. It is also doubtful whether the required strength could be
5 maintained at the high temperatures found at great depths. Certainly, in parts of the earth
where volcanoes are active, it is evident that under suitable conditions plastic flow can occur
8 near the surface.

2 Meinesz’s convection-current theory (1934) goes a long way towards overcoming these
© difficulties. He supposes that owing to differential heating, density differences are set up in
the semi-fluid substratum which in turn lead to convection currents. Downward movement
will occur in the denser parts and will give rise to positive gravity anomalies and a tendency
& for the surface to sink over these regions. In the later development of the theory, Meinesz