The observations in the English Channel (nos. 1, 2 and 3) are too few to enable any
detailed conclusion to be reached, but the negative anomalies in this area fit in with the
known facts concerning the geology of the region. The positions of the stations and the free-
air, Bouguer and isostatic anomalies are given in table 8 and are plotted on charts 2, 3 and 4.
As the topography is slight, these do not differ greatly from one another. At Southampton
a Bouguer anomaly of —31 mgals is found (Bullard & Jolly 1936); 12 miles south-east of
this, the Portsdown borehole penetrates to a depth of about 6000 ft. and just reaches the Trias.
Assuming that the mean density down to this depth is 2-2, we can account for the observed
anomaly provided there is no isostatic compensation. The geological evidence concerning
the eastern part of the Channel indicates that there is probably a basin filled with Mesozoic
sediments. The evidence has recently been reviewed by King (1949), who confirms this
general structure and shows that in mid-Channel the depth of sediment may well be 4000
to 6000 ft. This would more than suffice to account for the observed anomalies. The fact
that even larger anomalies are not found indicates that either the density of the sedi-
mentary rocks is greater than 2-2 or that some degree of isostatic compensation has taken
place. Both are quite probable. A gravity survey of this area has now been carried out in
H.M. Submarine Talent, and until the results of these measurements are available it is not
profitable to pursue this question further.

With the exception of station no, 48, the observations in the Irish Sea all give positive
anomalies. Were it not for this observation, one would tentatively conclude that the general
field of positive anomalies found in west Scotland extended south, through Wales and
south-west England to Ushant. Recent gravimeter work in Wales shows that here, as in
west Scotland, positive anomalies are found which increase westward, reaching a value of
+50 mgals at Aberystwyth (Cook & Thirlaway 1948). The result at station no. 48, which