the order of 10 mgals may often occur over distances of a few tens of miles. This is confirmed —
by gravimeter observations in south-west England. The scatter in the submarine measure- —
ments in the shallow parts of the area therefore seems quite normal. The fact that almost
twice as great a scatter should be found over the oceanic part is surprising, particularly
when it is remembered that these observations are made at a height of some 5 km. above the
sea bed. One must conclude that the earth’s crust under this part of the Atlantic Ocean is
even less homogeneous than below the mouth of the English Channel.

These changes in gravity occur within distances which are certainly not greater than
100 km. and probably considerably less. Their cause must therefore be near the upper
surface of the crust. Assuming that the inhomogeneity arises from a complex structure in
which rocks of different density are present, an idea of the order of magnitude can be
obtained from the fact that two semi-infinite horizontal layers of rock 3 km. thick separated
by a vertical interface and differing in density by 0-2, would give a gravitational field at a
level 5 km. above their upper surface, having a maximum gradient of 1 mgal/km. directly
over the interface and an overall difference of 25 mgals. A structure in which blocks of _
granite a few kilometres thick were embedded in a matrix of basalt would therefore account |
for the observed scatter in the gravity anomalies. Alternatively, large variations in thickness
of the deep-sea sediments as suggested in §§ 4-1 and 4-33 would produce a similar effect. If —
the density difference between the sediments and the basement rock is taken to be 0-4, as
assumed for the continental shelf, variations in thickness of 1 or 2 km. would be required,
but if we assume that the basement is basalt, density differences as great as 1-0 might exist
which would reduce the thickness to less than 1 km. It has recently been reported by Hersey
(1948) that the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution have carried out seismic reflexion
experiments between Bermuda, the Greater Antilles and the east coast of the United States.