* [Note added in proof.| A communication (unpublished) from Professor C. A. Coulson and Miss J. Jacobs,
of the calculated 7-electron distribution and bond orders in the ground state and the first excited state of
the trans 4-aminostilbene molecule shows that the contribution of o- and p-quinonoid structures is very small
in the ground state, excess 7-electron charge being considerable on the £-carbon atom of the ethylenic
double bond and negligible in the unsubstituted benzene ring B. In the first excited state, o- and p-quinonoid
structures make a greater contribution but the highest 7-electron charge occurs on the a-ethylenic carbon
atom. Recently published calculations by A. Pullman (C.R. Acad. Sci., Paris, 1948, 226, 486-488) for the
ground state of this molecule lead to similar conclusions.

t It has been pointed out by Vittum & Brown (1947) that the relative effects of a hindering substituent
on the energies of the ground state and the higher energy states of a molecule should influence the direction of
the wave-length shift due to steric hindrance, and shifts to lower frequencies might be expected under certain
conditions. A bathochromic shift has, in fact, been observed by Brunings & Corwin (1942) and by Brooker
et al. (1947) in certain sterically hindered pyrrole dyes. It is possible that diminished absorption intensity (as
defined by Mulliken 1939) is a more sensitive test of steric hindrance than changes in frequency, as is
suggested by Remington (1945) in work on dimethylaniline derivatives, and by the results reported in this
communication. Further, it is clear that changes in the vibrational energy of a molecule on substitution
may influence the maximum of an apparently smooth absorption band in a complex manner. Thus band
shifts resulting from substitution require cautious interpretation.


AND CARCINOGENIC PROPERTIES OF 4-AMINOSTILBENE 167

It was found that solutions of most of the compounds examined were unstable when left
in the light, and changes were observed in the absorption curve during measurement.