trap, prolonged heating at 550° C causes a loss of some of the material to the trap. It may
be shown experimentally (for example, by observation of the thermoelectric power) that
the residue of lead telluride left in the vessel acquires an excess of lead which increases with
the length of heating. The explanation of this phenomenon is probably as follows. The lead
telluride vapour in the vessel is slightly dissociated at 550° C, and, therefore, an equilibrium
must be set up between the concentration of lead, tellurium and lead telluride in the vapour
phase, and also between these components in the solid phase. Since the atomic weight of
tellurium is less than that of lead, it would be expected that initially tellurium would be
lost by diffusion from the vessel more rapidly than lead. If this were the only process
occurring, a dynamic equilibrium would be established in such a way that the concentration
of lead in the vapour was increased until the rates of loss of lead and tellurium from the
vapour became equal. This, however, would not lead to a progressive increase in the
relative excess of lead in the residue, which is, in fact, observed over a period of time long
compared with that required to establish equilibrium in the vapour. If the composition
of the solid is also taken into consideration it would be expected that some of the dissociated
lead and tellurium would dissolve in the solid phase, thus preventing equalization of the
rates of loss of lead and tellurium by diffusion from the container. On account of the much
lower vapour pressure of lead than tellurium it is not unreasonable to expect that in this
way a considerable excess of lead could be built up in the solid.

This property was employed to give a delicate control of the concentration of the com-
ponents in specimens of lead telluride. It was possible to prepare an initial film of lead
telluride containing no detectable excess of lead (i.e. high resistance and near zero thermo-
electric power), by the method described in part I. After making observations of its
photoelectric properties, the film could be removed from the electrodes by heating in vacuo