‘global’ into a place, except by pointing a lens through the window of the International Space
Station at the ‘blue marble’ planet? Tyszczuk nicely summarizes the climate change storytellers
conundrum: ‘Climate change is too here, too there, too everywhere, too weird, too much, too
big, too everything. Climate change is not a story that can be told in itself, but rather, it is now
the condition for any story that might be told about cities, or our inhabitation of this fractious
planet’ [13, p. 47].

Additional to these six demanding characteristics, material demand reduction introduces
further challenges for communicators and mediators. In the remainder of this section, I set points
raised by Allwood eft al.’s wide ranging White Paper [2] and associated publications [1,4], and
in the discussion of the White Paper offered by Séderholm & Tilton [3] within the context of
broadcast decision-making. These specific challenges include the challenge of telling stories about
systems. They also include the fact that there are only very limited broadcast spaces available for
the exploration of fundamental challenges to mainstream political economy and everyday life.

In a 2013 paper, Allwood et al. [14] review four main approaches to reduce emissions while
meeting market demand. However challenges are noted at every turn: they note how Smil
[15] summarizes the planning and regulatory tasks associated with changing energy supply
infrastructures; Fouquet & Pearson [16] find that a low carbon energy transition may not deliver
the kinds of benefits to producers and consumers that had promoted prior energy system
transitions and Sathre & Masanet [17] review carbon capture and storage technology and lay
out clearly the expense of committing perhaps one-third of the output of a fossil-fuelled power
station to drive the process. There are instances where such ‘challenges’ can generate the core of a
TV proposition. However, the disconnect between viewer and subject within such systems-rooted
issues tends to be significant, even before the weighing of expert evidence on any particular