by environmental concern per se. This can also be seen in the survey, where relatively few : =
participants selected the option which read: ‘on reflection the product did not fit with my health or 23
environmental concerns’. Furthermore, many of the participants’ positive emotions (e.g. feelings : a
of pleasure, satisfaction) were associated with practices such as repairing a broken device, or : -
making something last longer than they originally thought possible. In short, practising frugal : =
behaviours was something that participants appeared to both enjoy and value (supporting the [4
work of Kasser within this volume [36]). It is perhaps not surprising, therefore, that negative 1S
feelings were associated with wasteful behaviours and unnecessary consumption (e.g. throwing :3
away and/or having to replace things that should be mendable). While it may perhaps be : g

somewhat discouraging that our participants did not appear to be motivated specifically by
environmental concerns, a number of recent publications have suggested that both frugality and
voluntary simplicity may in fact be more helpful drivers of pro-environmental behaviours, and
have similar end results [37-39]. Furthermore, research suggests that feelings of positive affect
resulting from acting pro-environmentally (and arguably also by extension frugally) can actually
motivate continued engagement with pro-environmental behaviours [40].

6. Policy implications

This research has demonstrated that regret and unhappiness with consumption are not simply
a result of misguided individual choices. Instead, it suggests that negative emotions occur as
a result of our participation in the wider socio-technical systems that constitute everyday life.
As such, efforts to reduce consumption that actually make people unhappy, should not simply
depend on policies geared towards persuading individuals to make sacrifices and change their
behaviour [41]. Instead, policies need to also challenge the contemporary rules game and support