surface layers also show a dependence of phase-velocity on wave-length.

So far no reference has been made to the actual generation of these various possible wave-
types. The practical interest of the study of clastic waves lies in the interpretation of records
of carthquakes or of artificial explosions to deduce the nature of the materials which lie
below the earth’s surface. The above theoretical considerations assume continuous propa-
gation. In practice, the disturbance at the energy source is a pulse of short duration and
at best may be described by a superposition of waves of all frequencies spreading cylindric-
ally or spherically from the source. Nevertheless, the interpretation of records is based
essentially on the simple ideas of reflexion and refraction of P- and S-waves together with
the notion of ‘rays’ along which the energy is propagated and the assumption that, in
general, the record will exhibit arrivals corresponding to the surface Rayleigh and Love
waves. In fact, the scismogram presents a highly complex pattern which cannot be ex-
plained on a simple ray theory. Comparison of earthquake records reveals marked in-
consistencies, considerable scattering of readings, particularly of the ‘S-phase’ (seismological
notation), without any convincing concentration of frequency (Jeffreys 1946, p. 61);
moreover, the S-phase and the corresponding P-phase are pulses which appear to have
been refracted along the interface between the granitic and ultra-basic rock and up again
to the surface, and on a ray theory their associated energy should be negligible; yet, the
refracted pulses are prominent and, hence, useful features of earthquake and experimental
records. There are also characteristics of the ‘surface wave’, as observed at great distances,
which require more detailed explanation than just the existence of a stationary value of
group velocity giving a maximum amplitude, in particular, the long trains of regular waves
observed to follow the main disturbance.
