whole of the keratin substance. It would thus appear that true permanent set is for the
most part associated with the middle phase, K2, that the first phase, K,, is relatively
insusceptible, and that even in Kg, also, the change is only partial. For the permanent
set curves given in fig. 13 it may be noted that each human hair was “ set ” for 6 hours
and re-steamed for 6 hours, while it was found sufficient to set Cotswold wool for 35
hours only before re-steaming for 6 hours. The results show that the maximum. per-
manent set that can be realized from extensions in water at ordinary temperatures is
of the order of only 35°, while the maximum set for complete extension (100%) is
still no more than about 60%.

With regard to X-ray examination of the effects of super-contraction and of temporary
and permanent set, the conclusion reached is just what one might reasonably expect
from the experiments described above (see fig. 11), that, in fact, the hotter the water
in which the stretched hair is “set,” the shorter the time required to destroy the
reversibility of the intramolecular transformation. After only a few minutes’ exposure
of the stretched fibre to steam the @-photograph completely loses its power of reverting
to the «-form, even though super-contraction can still be demonstrated ; but it requires
several hours’ treatment of a stretched hair with water at 60° C., for instance, before the
8-photograph is “ set”?; even after treatment for half an hour at this temperature the
«-photograph reappears more or less unchanged when the fibre is caused to contract.
The X-ray photographs thus offer the clearest evidence of the onset of permanent set,
evidence, moreover, which is of the nature of “advance news,” since the crystalline
part of the fibre substance is fixed in the @-form (as revealed by X-rays) long before the
fibre as a whole has acquired its maximum set. The setting of the crystalline part
alone, however, is insufficient to hold up permanently the contraction (in steam or hot