mathematics has a retrospective clarifying role, although also an explanatory role if, ideally, one : =
finds axioms that lead to exactly the physics that is observed. :8

In fact, Hilbert took the view that mathematics in general is ‘not like a game whose tasks
are determined by arbitrarily stipulated rules’ [4,6] but rather that good axioms are part of
a pre-existing structure of ‘mathematical reality’ as I would put it. In my experience, many
mathematicians would also agree with this, although many would not. For example, the French
mathematician Dieudonné [7] famously argued the other side—that mathematics was more like a
game of chess in which there is no absolute truth because the rules are arbitrary. In relative realism
we do take the ‘mathematics is out there’ view but we also take the Dieudonné view except that we
do not see it as perjorative. Thus, there is a reality experienced by chess players as they experience
the restrictions of chess while playing, in some sense ‘created’ or carved out by those restrictions,
but at the same time the rules of chess are not arbitrary and constitute an ‘empirical fact’ although
at a higher level as an element of the reality, of possible board games as experienced by designers
of board games [1]. This gives a hierarchical ‘room within rooms’ structure to our experience of
reality a little different from Hilbert’s analogy. Exiting a room by dropping an axiom takes us into
a bigger room in which the door we just came out of is just one of the points of interest [8].

In summary, Hilbert might well have agreed with the starting point of relative realism but
would have taken a more absolutist view of reality rather than subscribing to the ‘relative’ side
of the thesis. My view is that one does not have to swallow the philosophy for our approach to
be useful. As with the philosophy of quantum mechanics, we do not need to get bogged down
with what ‘real’ actually means as long as our model explains the perception of reality and key
features of this perception at an operational level, which for us means principally its hierarchical
structure whereby to some degree what we experience is determined by what assumptions we