these ideas from classical to quantum field theory, then logically an aspect of this should be
that it corresponds to quantum Riemannian geometry, where space-time coordinates become non-
commutative. This should then be taking us towards the self-dual axis as shown in figure 1.
Interestingly, [18] have now constructed quantum field theories on curved space-times as functors
from the monoidal category of globally hyperbolic space-times to non-commutative C*-algebras
with tensor product, which is some kind of arrow from QFT to monoidal functors in figure 1.
Such functors are not self-dual under ( )°, but then this is not yet quantum gravity. At any
rate, one could speculate in this context that Einstein’s equation might eventually emerge as
the classical limit of a self-duality condition as it equates the Einstein tensor from the geometry
side to the expectation value of the stress energy tensor from the quantum field theory side,
probably requiring both to be generalized so as to be in a self-dual setting. I do not know the
final framework for this, but the monoidal category dual may be a step in the right direction. In
physical terms, the self-dual nature of quantum gravity as we see it is in line with the fact that the
metric is the background geometry, while its fluctuations are spin-2 fields and hence among the
‘representations’ of the background geometry in the loose sense discussed above.

Insummary, we were led on philosophical grounds to the view that space-time should be both
curved and ‘quantum’ in the sense of a non-commutative coordinate algebra, as a consequence of
a deep self-duality principle for quantum gravity [1-3]. We call this aspect the quantum space-time
hypothesis. It is a prediction which, if confirmed, would be on a par with the discovery of gravity
and indeed dual to it. What it could entail mathematically is our next topic.

3. Axioms of quantum Riemannian geometry

I will recap a constructive approach to this from my own work in the last decade (much of it with