In [27], we make two convenient variations. First of all, we are not going to require zero
curvature because the effect of curvature is visible only at order 47, so we do not really need
this in the order 4 theory. If there is curvature, then it will not be possible to have an associative
differential calculus of classical dimension on A, but this is actually a situation that one frequently
encounters in non-commutative geometry. We can either absorb this in a higher-dimensional
associative differential structure or we can live with non-associative differentials at order 7.
Strictly speaking, the same applies to the Poisson bracket obeying the Jacobi identity not being
strictly needed at order 22, in which case we would have A itself being non-associative. Secondly,
for simplicity, we are going to make the assumption that V, is indeed the restriction of an actual
connection V. This will allow us to speak more freely of geometric concepts such as the contorsion


tensor. In fact this assumption is not critical; if the Poisson tensor in these coordinates is w”, then | 10 |
we are in most formulae making use only of the combination V“ := w“V,, rather than the full

covariant derivatives V,, themselves. It means that our data have redundant ‘auxiliary modes’ “a
that do not affect the quantum differential structure at order 4, a situation not unfamiliar from [a
other situations such as gauge theory. There is also the matter of extending from 2! to forms of is

all degrees but this turns out [27] to impose no further conditions.
The third layer is the construction of a quantum metric and the natural data for this will be
a classical metric g on M. As one might guess, the metric compatibility of V is just that Vg=0.
To avoid confusion, we will write V for the classical Levi-Civita connection of g and we let S be
the cotorsion tensor of V whereby V=V+5S. Itis well known, in general relativity, that a metric- 75
compatible connection is determined by its torsion tensor T or equivalently a cotorsion tensor ie