impossible, The X-ray effects which they investigate are determined only by the
nucleus or core of the atom and the outer electrons of the atom which contribute to
its magnetic property, though they are controlled by the nucleus, are probably
distorted by the influences of neighbouring magnetic elements. This distortion, which
explains a large number of observed phenomena, defines the molecular boundary within
the space lattice and determines a definite chemical molecule. These outer regions of
the atom or molecule remain undetected by the X-ray experiments.*

* A. E. Oxtey, ‘ Nature,’ No. 4, 1915. The core or electrostatic part of the atom is at a much greater
distance from the atomic boundary than are the circular currents which give rise to the magnetic
properties. As the intensity of the magnetic field due to a circular current varies inversely as the cube of
the distance, and as in a crystalline structure two such circuits may approach so as almost to touch, each
electron describing a small circle, the local magnetic forcive may be sufficiently large to account for the facts.

The view that the cohesive force in crystalline media is of a magnetic nature was expressed in Part II.
of this research, pp. 83-86. It was there stated that in a diamagnetic crystalline medium the molecules
are held together by the local magnetic forces due to the revolving electrons. It is possible that each
electron is completely bound to its own nucleus by a narrow tube of force, when the molecules would be
capable of attracting or repelling one another electromagnetically according to their directions of rotation,
The advantage of an electromagnetic cohesive force lies in the fact that by it-we can readily see how
similar molecules will cling together. Electrostatically such attraction implies an electron transfer
which, we know, does not always take place, Reasons are given on p. 277 that the atomic forces which
determine the structure of the molecule are in part at least of a magnetic nature. The adyantage of

