
Why are dissipative structures so common in biological systems? If life is such a rich
source for multiple attractors, oscillations and spatio-temporal organization, it is because life
is inherently nonlinear. This nonlinearity is prone to give rise to instabilities, and originates
from the cooperativity of allosteric proteins such as enzymes, ion channels or receptors, and
from the multiple feedback loops which control the operation of biological systems at all levels,
from cells to tissues, organs and animal populations. Life depends on feedback regulation.
Positive feedback is required for bistability, while negative feedback is associated with oscillatory
behaviour. Both types of feedback are often intertwined. The examples of the cell cycle and the
circadian clock illustrate well how positive and negative feedback loops cooperate to confer
on a complex regulatory network the capability of temporal self-organization in the form of
sustained oscillations. The occurrence of nonlinear interactions capable of giving rise to bistability
or oscillations might in fact be more widespread than envisaged on the basis of identified feedback :
loops. Thus, while a single cycle of protein phosphorylation-dephosphorylation can give rise :=
to ultrasensitivity characterized by a steep threshold [240], multiple protein phosphorylation, :3
which is commonly encountered in cell regulation, could by itself give rise to bistability under :
appropriate conditions [241-243]. Other types of protein-protein interactions provide further DB
potential sources for bistable or oscillatory behaviour [244,245]. :

Some 50 years after Prigogine introduced dissipative structures in nonlinear science, it appears 74
that this unifying concept has proved remarkably fruitful for apprehending the dynamic of life 73
in its multiple aspects. It has also given a crucial impetus for the development of the field of 7S
nonlinear science, in which numerous problems remain open and new questions continually arise. 7g
Studies of non-equilibrium self-organization in biological systems, at the biochemical, cellular as .
well as supracellular levels, both in physiological and pathological conditions, are thriving more