Reed [5] asks fascinating questions about the efficacy of preemptive legislation and instead
highlights the role of personal liability in this setting. As for interfacing with administrative law,
Oswald [4] probes the question of fair practices in such a context, and what might be considered
fair. Drew [12] in turn advocates for ethical design drawing upon previous practical experience.

These questions of governance of data and algorithms are especially challenging given the
current at-scale implementation of many algorithms in the commercial sector, and the longevity
of data that can be stored and re-used. Here the importance of an individual’s consent to data
usage must be balanced to some degree by societal norms and delegated authorities. It may not
be feasible that every active individual in society is at every moment involved in negotiating with
other parties the terms of how their data may or may not be used. :

In fact, many of the ethical issues debated in this discussion issue touch upon the availability of [=
large but messy volumes of linked observational data. Large volumes of data have been collected, :3
often without a rigorous collection design, and the general public is sharing information about :
themselves, often without a clear understanding of the risks and opportunities involved. With 1G
new legislation and heightened awareness, the proliferation of data may be abating, but already :
considerable amounts of information are available about each of us. In this context, Nissim & : Ker
Wood [7] ask the question of what the nature of privacy is precisely. The repercussions of the 2S
availability of large and detailed personally identifiable information, is that much more can be 7S
inferred from them than seems to be available at first glance. :&

However, the value and cost-savings in using data lies exactly in being able to combine it .
both across data types, and many, many individuals. If given segments of the population refrain
from making their data available, then we cannot make sense of the population as a whole, or