plays a crucial role so as to determine individual liability, criminal law hinges on the old idea .
that ‘everything which is not prohibited is allowed’. This principle is connected to the clause of
immunity summarized, in continental Europe, with the formula of the principle of legality, i.e. ‘no
crime, nor punishment without a criminal law’ (nullum crimen nulla poena sine lege). As a result,
scholars have to determine whether AI robots may produce a novel generation of loopholes in
the criminal law field, forcing lawmakers to intervene at both national and international levels,
much as they did in the early 1990s with a new generation of computer crimes [8,11].

As stressed above in the section Introduction, however, we leave this level of analysis out in
this context. While most of today’s debate on the impact of robots and AI agents on the laws
of war and, generally speaking, on tenets of criminal law concerns, e.g. the hypothetical ‘I-3’ of
table 1, current discussions on how AI robots may affect pillars of civil law mainly regard cases
‘I-1’ and ‘T-2’. Most of today’s disagreement on the civil status of AI robots has in fact to do with
either such AI robots as legal persons, or as accountable agents in the system, rather than simple
sources of damage and, hence, of human legal responsibility. Consequently, the focus of this paper
is, on the one hand, on the nine ideal-typical conditions of legal responsibility illustrated with
table 1, that regard the field of civil (as opposed to criminal) law. On the other hand, we have to
further restrict the focus of the paper on the first two sets of observables in table 1, thus skipping
such cases as ‘I-3’, ‘SL-3’ and ‘UD-3’. These latter cases regard matters of reasonable foreseeability
and human negligence that affect contractual and extra-contractual interaction. Consider again
the aforementioned guidance of the EU Commission on how to interpret the Product Liability
Directive in light of current technological developments, e.g. machine learning techniques and
algorithms capable to define or modify decision-making rules autonomously. Although national
legislations may include data and information in the notion of product, it remains far from
clear whether the adaptive and dynamic nature of AI robots through either machine learning