inclusions that are not visible in an optical microscope. Thus, the results of the above-mentioned
experimental work from the 1980s do not allow us to finally conclude on the formation of a
homogeneous solid solution during rapid solidification of eutectic alloys.


In the remarkable work of Boettinger et al. [20], the microstructure of Ag—Cu alloys has been
investigated upon melting and resolidification at solidification front velocities of 0.01-1.00ms~1.
These authors generated a map of predominant microstructures as a function of solidification
velocity and chemical composition. Coupled eutectic growth ceases at 0.02 ms™!, at higher rate
first band structures and then microsegregation-free structures at the limit of absolute stability
(approx. 0.6ms—!) appear. The band structure is caused by a reverse behaviour of temperature
at the solidification front [21], and the microsegregation-free microstructure appears due to the
fact that the partition coefficient approaches unity [22]. This is also confirmed by theoretical
considerations [23-25]. The transition to partitionless solidification where solute diffusion does
not exert any influence can be defined by the ratio between the solidification front velocity V and
the maximum speed of atomic diffusion in the liquid phase Vp [23]: if V > Vp, the alloy solidifies
as a single metastable phase of the initial composition without solute redistribution [24], and
the eutectic reaction is suppressed [25]. The latter effect was detected in the very first experiments
with rapidly quenched eutectic alloys [15-17]. A systematic experimental study on microstructure
formation during rapid solidification of eutectics using up-to-date characterization methods is
needed to verify such predictions.

High cooling rates can lead to substantial undercooling before crystallization begins. The
influence of undercooling on the character of crystallization of eutectic and hypereutectic alloys
of the Sn—Bi system is given in details in [26]. Undercooling by 5-9K, the eutectic point in the