economic development and resource distribution can keep increases seem to be due to institutional adjustments that effect-
pace with demand. ively increase gender equality, or reduce the relative costs of
Counter-argument 1. The above propositions are all woe- childbearing. This suggests that it is not just a distaste of
fully incorrect. larger families that is keeping fertility low even in highly mod-
If the propositions above are ill-founded and cultural and ernized contexts [57]. It also suggests that a fertility uptick may
genetic evolution can quite easily keep fertility at very low already be underway.
levels, there remains a need to understand why this may be. Resource inputs are also required to keep fertility low. Goods,
Ideally, this understanding would be aided by a well-grounded, services and information must all be manufactured, transported,
mechanistic theory that can foster predictions of fertility in packaged and delivered. Studies of the demographic transition
the future. The theory should also account for the stunning widely acknowledge the role of modernization as a driver of
reduction in variability for this typically highly variable trait. fertility decline, but do not acknowledge that there is a sizeable
Perhaps the costs of having children are simply too great, and energetic cost to modernization [67]. This cost may be difficult
just about any human mind will realize that once they have to precisely estimate in terms of fuel demands, but the fact
access to a low mortality niche and the technology needed to that the cost exists and is part of our demographic future is
match fertility outcomes with fertility preferences, they will an inescapable fact. Culture and resource availability may
choose fewer children. While we see plenty of reason to be sus- interact in complicated ways, especially as wealth inequality
picious of the idea that fertility declines are irreversible, a increases and/or if there are significant declines in per capita
plausible evolutionary and/or ecological theory predicting access to resources.
long-term stability of very low fertility may exist and we Future changes in fertility levels are difficult to predict. We
have just not thought of it. If this is the case, the core of our cri- wish to amplify certain calls, often made by experts in the field
tique remains. The assumption of irreversibility is currently not of population forecasts and projections, that the topic is suffi-
founded on theory and the potential consequences for getting it ciently complicated to require inputs from multiple fields [6],
wrong are substantial. Humans evolved through evolutionary and especially that resource and economic constraints are not
processes linked to complex ecological settings [61]. A theory of usually included [1]. A combination of demographically
fertility that brings our evolutionary past to bear on the present oriented approaches, that include but are not limited to those