match fertility outcomes with fertility preferences, they will an inescapable fact. Culture and resource availability may
choose fewer children. While we see plenty of reason to be sus- interact in complicated ways, especially as wealth inequality
picious of the idea that fertility declines are irreversible, a increases and/or if there are significant declines in per capita
plausible evolutionary and/or ecological theory predicting access to resources.
long-term stability of very low fertility may exist and we Future changes in fertility levels are difficult to predict. We
have just not thought of it. If this is the case, the core of our cri- wish to amplify certain calls, often made by experts in the field
tique remains. The assumption of irreversibility is currently not of population forecasts and projections, that the topic is suffi-
founded on theory and the potential consequences for getting it ciently complicated to require inputs from multiple fields [6],
wrong are substantial. Humans evolved through evolutionary and especially that resource and economic constraints are not
processes linked to complex ecological settings [61]. A theory of usually included [1]. A combination of demographically
fertility that brings our evolutionary past to bear on the present oriented approaches, that include but are not limited to those
and near future is still needed, even if to test hypothesized from evolutionary and ecological theory, can increase appreci-
pathways that would keep fertility low into the distant future. ation for certain facts of population ecology and genetics that

can provide valuable insights, synergy and nuance for this

4 Synopsis and conclusion compelling and highly important topic.

To be fair, the notion of evolutionary demography as a field comes Authors’ contributions. O.B. conceived of the project. O.B. and J.D. wrote
with a need to be cautious. In many cases, the level of explan- the paper together.
ation required for demographic questions is proximate, and Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.

many issues need to be framed in sociological terms in order

Funding. We received no funding for this study.