E=kP*, in which E and P are brain and body weights or for dogs, horses and the African elephant lie on the line and
volumes, respectively, and k and a are constants. k is a pro- therefore represent the average of mammals. The values for
portionality factor for the different vertebrate taxa, and a is another mice species, chimpanzees, humans, but also for dol-
the allometric (or scaling) exponent, which indicates how phins, lie above the line and accordingly represent BBRs above
strongly the brain grows compared with body growth [12]. average, while those for another shrew species, bats, hedge-
With a=1, we would have an isometric growth, whereas hog, pig, hippopotamus, blue whale and sperm whale are
a > 1 would indicate a positive and a < 1 a negative allome- found below the line and accordingly represent BBRs below
try. In double-logarithmic transformation, we obtain the average. The value for humans lies in the upper left edge of
linear equation log E=log k-—a@ log P, where k is the the polygon and farthest from the regression line, which
intercept with the y-axis and a is the slope of the line. means that we humans have a brain size that is the largest
The exact value of a is still a matter of debate. For relative to the mammalian average.
vertebrates in general, von Bonin [16] found a value of As a consequence of negative brain allometry, with increas-
two-thirds. For Jerison [2], this relates to the fact that with ing body weight, the relative brain weight decreases from
an increase in volume the body surface increases by two- more than 10% in very small mammals to less than 0.005%
thirds, arguing that the most important factors of a brain in the blue whale [11]. The human brain again ranks relatively
are the sensory surfaces of the body and the processing of high with roughly 2% of body weight, but in close proximity
the information coming from them. However, Jerison [2] to apes and dolphins. We thus conclude that relative brain size
pointed out that there are differences in a across the different by itself is inappropriate for a correlation with intelligence. If
vertebrate classes. For reptiles, one finds a value of 0.53 and this had any impact, then the tiniest animals should be the
for birds and mammals [17] values of 0.68 and 0.74, respect- smartest ones, which apparently is not the case in any
ively. In primates, a= 1 was found by Herculano-Houzel animal phylum, class or order. What we find, however, is
[18], which would indicate an isometric growth of brain more complicated: small animals with absolutely small
size. Finally, in extinct hominins plus living Homo sapiens, brains can be surprisingly smart and large animals with
@ amounts to 1.73 [19], which is the steepest increase in absolutely large brains relatively unintelligent.
size during the entire brain evolution. So far there is no Within classes (birds, mammals) or orders (e.g. primates),