ism and _ globalization—that have become predominant is that any practice that emerges can be sustained by the com-
principles in present-day social and economic development, munity itself and is shown to provide long-term benefits for
and can undermine a balanced human-nature relationship. the community and its surrounding environment. This is
What we want to do is not promote one over the other, but what community owned solutions do. Communities are
encourage decision-makers to engage with, and appreciate, placed at the centre of the decision-making process rather
Indigenous perspectives and worldviews on fire management. than at its periphery. It might help to provide a Western
Community owned solutions acknowledges collectivity, example to bring home the point. One of the paper authors
spirituality, process orientation and locality, whereas many is Italian. Italians have been using tomatoes in their cooking
expert-led fire management interventions often result in pro- since the fruit was brought from Indigenous communities in
moting individualism, ethnocentrism, rationality, efficiency, South America in the sixteenth century. Does cooking with
commercialism and globalization. The question we raise is tomatoes make Italians less Italian because they are using
this: can the ‘community owned solutions’ approach be the an Indigenous ingredient? Does that mean that Italians, at
mechanism through which Indigenous perspectives can be least in their cooking, have been ‘Indigenized’? In fact, it is
represented within fire management? the opposite: Italians have elevated the use of tomatoes in

Our aim now, focusing on Venezuela, Brazil and Guyana, is cooking to a new level and have made it an integral part of

to bring together all parties involved in the fire decision-making their culture. And so too can ‘Western’ ideas and technologies


for fire management be adopted and applied by Indigenous Funding. The results and ideas presented in this paper are based on El

communities to successfully make them their own. research supported by the British Academy International Partnership
and Mobility Scheme (ref. PM130370), the Woodspring Trust, UK, the za
European Commission 7th Framework Project COBRA (ref. 282991), S