vertebrates—mammals—primates. These trends result in an and dolphins have unusually high EQs, but are not considered
increase of absolute and relative brain size, and in a pro- to be as intelligent as gorillas. Thus, other factors have to be
portional increase of cortical and eventually frontal cortical considered.
volume [26,58—60]. Thus, the highest number of cortical neur- The cerebral cortex is considered the ‘seat’ of intelligence
ons (especially those in the frontal lobe), the most efficient and mind in mammals. During their evolution, there was a dra-
connectivity pattern, and consequently, the highest IPC are matic increase in cortical surface area with increasing brain
found in humans. Yet, according to the model developed by size, while the thickness of the cortex increases only slightly.
Hofman [59], the human brain lies about 20-30% below the Among large-brained mammals, primates have the thickest
optimum, which would be a brain of about 3500 cm’. This cortices of 3-5 mm, while those of cetaceans and the elephant
would be roughly twice the present human brain volume. are surprisingly thin (1-1.8 mm). With increasing cortical
The second concept has been named mosaic or ‘cerebrotype’ volume, NPD usually decreases, but primates have unusually
brain evolution, referring to the idea that specific rather than high and cetaceans and elephants unusually low packing den-
general changes took place during human brain evolution, par- sities. All this sums up to the fact that the human brain has the

ticularly regarding the prefrontal cortex (PFC) [61-63]. The PFC largest number of cortical neurons (about 15 billion), despite


the fact that the human brain and cortex are much smaller in motor control of the vocal apparatus, and finally a new pat- | 8 |

size than those of cetaceans and elephants (with 10-12 billion tern of connectivity between the posterior, Wernicke,
or even fewer cortical neurons). speech centre and the anterior Broca speech centre [64,65]. a
However, this alone cannot explain the superiority of One can speculate that the type of intelligence found at the s
primate—including human—intelligence. Here, differences level of the great apes and the direct ancestors of modern
in the speed of intracortical information processing come humans was strongly amplified by syntactical-grammatical
into play. We have reason to assume that in primates in gen- language in modern humans, which is assumed to have