At the heart of MacArthur & Wilson’s [1,12] notion of a

dynamic equilibrium is the idea that immigration (extended

to include speciation on evolutionary timescales) balances

(c) How to view the carrying capacity: an instructive

extinction and the idea that immigration and extinction example from the fossil record
rates might be diversity-dependent. However, the living The idea of a carrying capacity evokes a series of important
biota represent a snapshot in time, and thus it is not possible issues that need to be evaluated in the debate over the useful-
to determine directly whether immigration, speciation and ness of the equilibrium model. The work of Sepkoski [4]
extinction rates are in fact diversity-dependent. By contrast, embodies the central issues involved. Sepkoski employed a
the dynamics of diversity change can be measured directly coupled-logistic equation to model Phanerozoic marine
with rich fossil records, by determining the extent to which family-level data, where each of three ‘faunas’ has its own
origination and extinction rates are correlated with change intrinsic diversification rate and equilibrium diversity, but
in diversity as one proceeds from one stratigraphic interval where the diversity trajectory of each ‘fauna’ is influenced by
to the next. the diversity of all the ‘faunas’ (inset, figure 1). We have put
One might reasonably ask whether the fossil record is up the word ‘fauna’ in quotes because they are not directly defined
to this task? In some cases, the answer is a resounding yes. spatially or ecologically, but are simply groups of classes that
In the case of the 19 Cenozoic mammalian clades analysed had similar temporal family-level diversity trajectories [33].
by Quental & Marshall [14], the average genus-level preser- Thus, in Sepkoski’s model, while each pool of taxa (each
vation rate was 89% at a temporal resolution of the geological ‘fauna’) has its own logistic growth, other pools influence its
stage, while for planktonic forams the Cenozoic fossil record diversity trajectory. However, while the dynamics of each
is 81% complete at the species level at a temporal resolu- ‘fauna’ is portrayed as fixed (which could be viewed as