Cenozoic mammalian clades they analysed, but they also note Incorporation of time-varying carrying capacities also =
that the role of the diversity dependence was secondary. makes it easier to ‘rescue’ clade-based approaches [22] and =

Additionally, the observation that the demise of a given enables extension of Sepkoski-style ‘whole biota’ approaches “2
clade is sometimes followed by the rise of an ecologically to formulating the dynamics of diversity change. s
similar one [49] has also motivated the idea that, similar ~
to Sepkoski’s marine family dynamics, the dynamics of indi- an oo. =
vidual clades might be coupled, Perhaps one of the best (¢) Two way of thinking about logistic growth =
examples of this is evidence of competitive displacement Before presenting a formal incorporation of time-varying car- -
among post-Palaeozoic cyclostome and cheilostome bryozoans tying capacities, we feel it is instructive to examine two J
[52]. This view reinforces the idea that the carrying capacity different ways of thinking about logistic growth. The first 5
need not operate within a single phylogenetic domain but focuses on the carrying capacity itself, which might be inter- 3
should be delineated ecologically. In fact, a recent study of preted as the number of niches (e.g. [11]). The second focuses =
mammalian carnivore clades [22] suggests that changes in on the strength of the effect of crowding on reducing the = &
speciation and extinction rates of declining clades are more diversification rate. This second perspective sees the carrying 3
related to changes in the diversity of a potential competitor capacity as an equilibrium state of a dynamic process, an epi- =
clade than to the diversity within the clade itself. phenomenon of the intrinsic growth rate (e.g. the difference

Key to these palaeontological examples is the observation between immigration and extinction in MacArthur and
that clades often diversify and then decline—for some of Wilson) and the strength of the diversity dependence.

these clades diversity-dependent origination and extinction
rates have been established [15,22], but their carrying (d) The core elements of bounded diversification
capacities are not fixed even if the relevant guild’s carrying
