allowing users to test the relative importance of different spe- to the incompleteness of the fossil record. The lack of an under-
ciation modes such as sympatric speciation, vicariance and lying phylogeny makes the DES model unsuitable for ancestral
founder-event speciation [22]. These additional parameters range estimation, but applicable to a wide range of extinct and
provide a comprehensive framework to statistically assess extant lineages for which fossil occurrences are available,
the most likely scenarios of range inheritance at cladogenetic including those lacking a reliable phylogenetic hypothesis.
events. By contrast, anagenetic range evolution is still typically The main focus of the DES model is the estimation of dispersal
modelled under very simplistic parametrizations involving rates between areas and area-specific extinction rates, with the
two parameters: one rate of dispersal (or area gain) and one possibility to allow for temporal rate variations.
rate of local extinction (or area loss) [20-22]. Most phylogenetic In this study, we (i) present the DES model and provide a
methods are, therefore, currently unable to infer rate asymme- Bayesian implementation to infer dispersal, extinction and
tries and temporal variations in dispersal and extinction from sampling parameters, (ii) assess its ability to accurately esti-
the data (but see [10,24,25]). This limitation can be attributed mate the parameters through extensive simulations and
to the fact that, although it is theoretically possible to popu- (iii) apply the method to a large empirical dataset of plant fos-
late the DEC transition matrix with asymmetric dispersal sils to estimate dispersal and extinction levels in North
rates and area-specific extinction rates [20], the data used in America and Eurasia throughout the Cenozoic. Finally, we dis-
biogeographic analysis (current ranges and phylogenetic cuss the usefulness of dispersal and extinction rates estimated
relationships of extant species) are probably insufficient to esti- from fossil data to inform and improve phylogeny-based
mate all required parameters [26]. This is highlighted by the biogeographic inferences.

poor accuracy of dispersal and extinction rates estimated
under DEC-based methods, even in the simple case of constant
and symmetric parameters [20,22]. 2. Material and methods
Improved estimation of dispersal and extinction rates is
potentially achieved by integrating the processes of geographi-
cal range evolution within the birth-death diversification