(such as increased humidity or primary productivity) leads in conditions within the Turkana Basin. Whereas precipi- 2
us to favour non-climatic explanations for the high species tation estimates show the expected decrease from over 1000 S
diversity, whereas the fact that the phenomenon was only to less than 500mm/yr over the last 6 Ma, temperature w
transient argues against explanations based on permanently estimates are remarkably stable at about 24°C, possibly =~
altered climate or habitats. reflecting a balance between global cooling and local heating ©
It may be no coincidence that sedimentation rates also from progressive deforestation resulting from an increased 3
increased significantly from Upper Burgi to KBS time [24]. prevalence of grassland-dominated biomes. Exactly how ©
All else being equal, increased sedimentation and fossiliza- our estimates compare with the significantly higher estimates
tion would be expected to result in better representation in of soil temperatures based on the clumped isotope analysis of
the fossil record of temporal variability of environments fossil soil carbonates [42] cannot be resolved at present, but
and biota. If species’ ranges shifted with changing climate, the lack of a temporal trend is similar. We strongly encourage
this could in turn result in the apparent sympatry of species workers in other fields to further test this hypothesis.
that were in fact rarely found together in life, inflating the Whether the absolute values are realistic remains to be
apparent species diversity. Quinn et al. [24] attribute the assessed, but the trends match previously published results.
increased sedimentation to the simultaneous spread of grass- The presence of water on the surface appears to inflate local
lands. Needless to say, the spread of open habitats is usually rainfall estimates significantly, as expected when wetlands
attributed to climate change and could be taken as an indi- supply water to local ecosystems. The more humid estimates
cation of local climate change that is not detected by our obtained for the eastern side of the basin are interpreted
ecometric proxies. But since nothing suggests that the grass- as an effect of wetlands on the shallow, eastern slope of
lands subsequently retreated, it is the process of expansion the half-graben.
itself, rather than the permanent establishment of a new habi- The richness and turnover anomaly observed in the KBS
tat, which could potentially explain the transiently high Member is found to correspond to an exceptionally high
richness observed. ratio of the number of species to the number of specimens.
It is difficult to draw detailed conclusions from compari- As the ecometric analysis does not indicate local effects of
sons between turnover patterns of different trophic levels, climate change as a likely cause, the possibility of a human-