18 4 is
1 1 1 1 1 ; ; ; ; ;
0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8
age in Ma age in Ma

Figure 3. (a—d) Estimates of mean annual temperature (°C) over time in the Turkana Basin using two different levels of aggregation (right—left) and two different
models based on the dental ecometrics HYP and LOP (up—down). 95% CI for the fit are shown in orange; please note that a narrow interval does not imply
confidence in the estimated value itself, only in the consistent performance of the model.

3.5 Maa. It is presently not possible to tell from data or analy- independently supported, owing to the low temporal resol-
tical results whether this increased variability indicates ution available to us.
increased sampling density, increased spatial heterogeneity Comparing the temporal trends of the two sides of the
or increased temporal variation. However, the fact that basin reveals a clear difference over time (figure 6), regardless
such periods of increased variance are not seen for the temp- of resolution (mode of aggregation). The wetter east side has
erature estimates suggests that something beyond sampling a greater spread of values, possibly reflecting better sampling
is involved. but perhaps also suggesting greater spatial heterogeneity or
Ecometric precipitation maps for Turkana show the greater sensitivity to fluctuations in the water table, related
spatial details of the temporal trends (figure 5). The emer- to influx of river water rather than rainfall. Under such an
gence of an east-west contrast is seen from 4 Ma onwards, interpretation, the elevation of the estimates from the east
as soon as the present tectonic structure was created [44]. side would be due to local surface or ground water and,
The shallow eastern side of the half-graben appears more potentially, teleconnection to climatic changes elsewhere,
humid than the elevated western side and, especially after rather than to greater local rainfall on the east side. This
2 Ma, more spatially heterogeneous, in agreement with pre- interpretation appears climatologically more plausible and
vious work [11,45]. The hypothesis that temporal variability is supported by some of the most humid ComLocs being
also increased regionally as a result of orbital forcing [46,47] situated in areas where sedimentology records the presence