distribution (see Material and methods), several lineages may The analysis of the Cenozoic plant fossil record for the Northern
go extinct before they have the chance of dispersing to a new Hemisphere demonstrates that biogeographic range evolution
area. Additionally, fossil data provide a more direct evidence is not a time-homogeneous process, but varies through time
of extinction, for instance, in cases of lineages with fossil occur- and between areas. This represents a strong violation of the
rences in areas where the lineage does not occur at the present assumptions characterizing most phylogenetic methods in bio-
(e.g. area B in figure 1). geography and involving constant or symmetric dispersal as
In the DES model, we use the preservation rates to estimate well as constant or absent extinction (e.g. [11,20—22,65]). Our
the probability of false absences due to the incompleteness of results show that such rate variation through time and space
the fossil record, and these parameters are essential to correctly can be estimated from fossil data without incurring issues in
estimating dispersal and extinction rates. Preservation rates parameter identifiability or convergence, provided that suffi-
can only be inferred from lineages that were sampled in at cient fossil occurrences are available. While we ran our
least one fossil occurrence, thus neglecting lineages that are analyses in a scenario with only two areas, further development
entirely missing from the fossil record [39]. This fact might and testing are necessary to assess the robustness of the
explain the slight tendency toward an overestimation of the approach for a larger number of areas.
preservation rates (figure 2c). The general temporal trends in extinction rates obtained
While the DES model allows for asymmetric dispersal and under the DES model closely resemble those estimated

extinction rates, it assumes that (i) the same rates apply to all under a birth—death model using global data [46]. Strikingly,


the time slice characterized by a generally stable climate extinction rates does not require known phylogenetic relation-

(32-14 Ma) also showed the lowest dispersal and extinction ships among lineages, as demonstrated by our simulations.
rates. By contrast, strong climate changes were associated This is possible because dispersals and extinctions are assumed
with phases of high plant turnover with increased extinction to occur independently along each lineage [18] and fossil occur-