age (Ma)
Figure 5. Early hominin endocranial volumes (ECVs) over time. The average ECV for chimpanzees is shown for comparison (based on data in [77]). A, Australopithecus
(sensu lato); H, H. habilis and H. rudolfensis; E, H. erectus. Data for fossil hominins from references [6,31,32,75]. (Online version in colour.)

to H. rudolfensis based on derived mandibular corpus mor- australopith conditions in the dentognathic system, perhaps
phology shared with many later Homo jaws, and its large, but involving the canine/premolar complex at least, but the evi-
buccolingually narrow, M, crown and broad-crowned, multi- dence is still far too sketchy to move beyond such speculation.
rooted lower premolars [82]. A clear implication of these As noted above, A. africanus of southern Africa has long
observations is that diversity in Homo may be expected to figured in scenarios regarding the origin of Homo, and,
extend back into the Late Pliocene. indeed, relative to the more generalized A. anamensis—

Very limited fossil evidence substantiates Homo older than A. afarensis lineage, this species shares some derived
about 2.4 Ma. If we set aside the candidacy of A. garhi (2.5 Ma; dentognathic morphology with early Homo. In fact, a few speci-
[83]), whose type (and only craniofacial) specimen shares vir- mens included in the A. africanus hypodigm resemble those of
tually no derived features exclusively with Homo, then we later species of Homo so closely that claims of taxonomic hetero-
have only a few jaws and isolated teeth from members C—E geneity have occasionally been aired though not widely
of the Shungura Formation of the Omo River basin and a accepted (reviewed in [89]). Comprehensive phylogenetic ana-
half-mandible with teeth from the Ledi-Geraru site (both in lyses typically position A. africanus basal to a clade that unites
Ethiopia) that arguably document early Homo between 2.8 Homo and robust australopiths (Paranthropus; reviewed in [78]).
and 2.4Ma [7,84,85].° These remains show departures in South African Australopithecus sediba (approx. 2.0 Ma) has also
jaw and dental structure from generalized Australopithecus been claimed to have been a direct ancestor to Homo, possibly
conditions. For example, the P3 crown has a more symmetri- even to H. erectus [90], but is more plausibly considered a close
cal occlusal profile, a mesially directed anterior fovea sealed relative of A. africanus [91-93].

by a stronger, continuous mesial marginal ridge, and macro-