3
= =
: 8)
=I
ES Bo

Y left eye

Y left eye

Figure 4. Binocular interactions across different locations in the RF can be used to identify different subunits (after Sasaki et al. [6]). (a,b) An RF (for simplicity, it is
identical in right and left eyes), with a row of random dots superimposed. In (4), the dots in the right eye are at a different location along the long axis of the RF
(Y-position), but this is chosen such that a horizontal cross section through the RF is the same at these two locations. Consequently, despite the fact that the right
eye stimulus is in a different location in (a,b), it produces identical activation of the right RF (i.e the inner product of stimulus and RF is the same). This ensures that
the binocular interactions will also be the same—both configurations result in the same disparity selectivity. (c) The magnitude of disparity selectivity as a function
of Y-position in the left and right eyes. A single subunit produces a separable response. (d) Two subunits. Here the two locations of dots in the right eye have very
different effects. When each eye stimulates a separate subunit, there is no binocular interaction. The result (e) is that disparity selectivity is an inseparable function of
Y-position in the two eyes.

three cases, the model response must be identical. However, if complete picture of the properties of those subunits. It is
the cell were composed of two distinct subunits as illustrated in clear that they occupy different spatial locations, but little
figure 4d, then no disparity selectivity will be seen when the else can be said about their properties.
dots are at different locations in the two eyes, because they acti- Fortunately, the same principle can be extended to explore
vate different subunits. That is, if YL and Yp indicate the other differences between subunits, such as differences in select-
vertical position of the dots, a classic BEM will show disparity ivity for spatial frequency [29]. Here, the stimuli were sinusoidal