smoothness coefficient delivered a larger PSE, thus repeated-measures ANOVA showed there was no significant
smoother-edged objects were perceived as having a smaller difference between PSEs from the HO and NHO condi-
peak depth than the sharp-edged object, for the same tions (F1,3 = 0.452, p= 0.459) or the thresholds (F;3 = 0.001,
physical depth. p = 0.975). Thus, we have no evidence that HOs contribute to

Figure 3c shows the extracted thresholds as a function of the bias in perceived depth found in experiment 1.
smoothness. A Bonferroni pairwise comparison showed no Note that the bias in perceived peak depth appeared a
significant effects between any smoothness values on the little lower here than that found in experiment 1 (compare
observed thresholds (p > 0.1). figures 3b with 4b and 4c). We did use different observers

These results are rather surprising, there are many here, so this effect could be due to individual differences.
elements in the central area of the stimulus that are located However, the object presented here had only one pair of
at the peak disparity. The fact that the visual system cannot smooth edges, so the smaller bias might suggest that the
correctly compare the peak depths of the two objects range of presented disparities is influencing perceived peak
indicates that it is unable to obtain the peak depth of the depth. In ยง3c, we implemented a model inspired by this
object independently from its overall shape. The effect is possibility.
notable because it takes place over such large length scales Thresholds for this experiment showed variation between
(over 80 arcmin). participants, but for all smoothness coefficients and both con-

There are two reasons why perceived peak depth might ditions, the thresholds did not vary significantly (repeated-
be smaller for the smooth-edged object: (i) disparity is aver- measures ANOVA, F;3 = 0.001, p = 0.975). Mean threshold
aged across the whole (or part of the) object to improve for all participants for the HO condition was 1.06 arcmin
signal/noise ratio; (ii) the HOs present in the sharp-edged and for the NHO condition 1.08 arcmin. There were large
object might provide an additional cue to depth and deliver differences between participants, but each participant
greater perceived depth. We tested the latter idea in showed consistent thresholds for all conditions to within