generally higher for subsequent CW choices (green, filled symbols) than for CCW choices (green, open symbols). This is not consistently so for the optimal cylinder (black).
(f) Trial-by-trial correlations between firing rate and perceptual choice give a significant CP for the sub-optimal cylinder (CP = 0.92; permutation test p < 0.01; green)
but not the optimal cylinder (CP = 0.44; permutation test p = 0.61; black).

(a) Neurometric thresholds for gylinder disparity do not discriminating binocular disparity, when the neuron is pre-
. . . _ sented with cylinders made up of dots whose motion is as

correlate with motion axis or firing rate much as 70° away from the preferred—null motion axis for
The next step was to assess the sensitivity of neurons for opti- the neuron (figure 3a). This shows the separation between the
mally and sub-optimally oriented cylinders in this interleaved task-specific measure of the neuron’s responses (neurometric
task. We computed the neurometric threshold [42] for disparity threshold) and unrelated visual stimulus preferences of the
discrimination separately for cylinders whose dot motion was neuron (degrees of rotation from the preferred—null motion
either optimally or sub-optimally aligned with the neuronal axis). In fact, there is no significant correlation between neuro-
preference. The neurometric threshold is defined as the differ- metric threshold and cylinder stimulus motion (figure 3a).
ence in stimulus disparities that supports a consistent level of Comparison of thresholds for the two data sets Qprer (mean
statistical discrimination in neuronal firing (i.e. the difference threshold 0.018°; Monkey F: 0.012°; Monkey R: 0.045°) and
between the 50 and 84% points on a cumulative Gaussian Qnon-pref (Mean threshold 0.021°; Monkey F: 0.014°; Monkey
curve fitted to the neuronal discrimination data: see §2 for R: 0.052°) also shows no significance (t-test, p > 0.4, for each
details). Neurometric thresholds may be calculated only for monkey considered separately, nor for both monkeys taken
neurons with near-monotonic tuning to cylinder disparity. together). Regardless of cylinder orientation, there was a sig-
We could adequately define neurometric thresholds for 75 of nificant difference in neurometric thresholds between the two
93 neurons in the dataset Qpr.¢ and 55 of 68 neurons from monkeys (p < 0.0001, t-test, at both orientations), which may
Qnon-pre. The quantitative relationship between neurometric reflect differences in the monkeys’ psychophysical perform-
threshold and stimulus motion with respect to the RF prefer- ance (Monkey F: 0.008’; Monkey R: 0.029°; p < 0.0001, t-test).
ences is presented graphically in figure 3a. The most striking We wondered whether broadly tuned neurons might main-