
nutrient conditions in the absence of consumers

included here or further discussed. (hypothesis H1)

For Euplotes, regression analysis indicated a significant In the absence of consumers, phytoplankton biomass was
increase of consumer population grazing rates with increasing interactively determined by nutrient supply and tempera-
algal C:N (p=0.011) and increasing temperature (12°C < ture, supporting hypothesis H1. Biomass increased with
24°C, p < 0.001), while algal C: P did not affect Euplotes popu- temperature as expected, reflecting increased metabolism, phys-
lation grazing rates. A linear model including only C:N and iological rates and finally growth rates at higher temperature [16].
temperature as predictor variables was able to explain almost Phytoplankton biomass also increased with nutrient supply;
60% of the variation in Euplotes population grazing rates though responding mainly to higher N irrespective of P concen-
(adjusted 1? = 0.5993). For the consumer mixture, only tempera- trations. In fact, the algal stoichiometry observed (see below)
ture affected grazing rates. When including temperature as the indicated a predominantly N-limited system with rather high
only predictor, the linear model explained almost half of the vari- C:N ratios (C:N> 16) for all nutrient supply treatments
ation in population grazing rates of the mixed treatment except for N:P 128:2, where lower C:N and high C:P
(adjusted r? = 0.4766). Post hoc pairwise comparisons showed (consistently > 300) indicated P limitation (e.g. [32]). The nutri-
significant differences between all temperature levels. For ent effect on biomass, however, was only evident at lower
Brachionus, neither C:N, C:P nor temperature showed any temperatures (12°C and 18°C), while highest phytoplankton bio-
effects on consumer grazing rates. mass was observed at 24°C irrespective of nutrient conditions.

As only algal C: N and not C: P affected consumer graz- These findings contradict previous studies, which support that
ing rates and final biovolume, we focused in our metabolic the influence of nutrient availability on growth rates of algae
model on the effects of algae C:N on consumer growth and zooplankton increases with temperature [33,34].
rates, total consumer population biomass and grazing rates Algal C: N and C : P ratios increased with decreasing N and