
how the species present in an assemblage will respond to a this assumption that people have adopted the widely used a
given driver. Second, traits present in the assemblage deter- metric of community-weighted means (CWM) of traits as an s
mine ecosystem functioning. Critically, the traits predicting important predictor of ecosystem functioning. The CWM of a
responses to a particular driver (response traits) may or may trait X (presumed here to be an effect trait) is calculated as fol- 2
not be the same traits as those traits predicting the effects of lows CWMx = SspsXz, where ps is the relative abundance of Ss
species on a particular ecosystem function (effects traits) [13]. species S. From this, it follows that for individual species’ con- =
There has been much progress in documenting broad-scale cor- tributions to ecosystem functioning to be stable, they must =
relations between different traits that may reflect fundamental either minimize variance in both abundance and effect trait “2
physiological or evolutionary constraints (such as the leaf econ- X, or have variation in abundance and effects traits that offset
omic spectrum in plants) [14]. However, it certainly need not be each other. We now consider how trait variation will affect = -
the case that values of response and effects traits are correlated these two components. =
either across or within species, a fact with important impli- S
cations for considering the effects of trait diversity on the (a) Variation in abundance =
stability of ecosystem function. wH

If species are present in an environment where conditions are = S

While there has b bstantial h on the di yf
© Hore as been Subsraniia’ researc’) on ihe aegree O variable (figure 1a), then we would predict that maintaining

correlation between the values of different traits, there is con- . . . . . w
. . we maximum population size at different points in time would =~
siderably greater uncertainty about whether variability in : . . . =
. woe . eae require different values of response traits. For example, a posi- —