ant species might be released from competition, so that their bottom-up argument: an increased value of the carrying
feeding compensates for loss of formerly dominant species capacity K directly corresponds to an increased resource bio- a
that are now eaten by the new predator. This hypothesis was mass and therefore to a larger amount of energy that is s
supported in a meta-analysis by Schmitz et al. [32]. Finke & available to the consumer guild. Thus, larger networks with
Denno [33] analysed a coastal marsh community and found a higher functional diversity and with a larger amount of con-
that adding more and more predators can further dampen sumer biomass can emerge. A similar bottom-up effect was
trophic cascades owing to increased intraguild predation. found in a dataset from the Cedar Creek Ecosystem Science
These processes can only occur in communities that are suffi- Reserve (see [5] for more information about this study = 2
ciently complex and diverse. We assume that this is given system): Haddad et al. showed that the species richness ‘2
after, but not during, the initial build-up of our networks. and abundance in higher trophic levels (predatory and parasi- ©
Another reason why we do not find such strong and toid anthropods) is strongly and positively related to the = -
diverse BEF relations as observed in previous studies could species richness in lower trophic levels (plants) [49]. In =
be the fact that ecosystems in different study sites experience addition, Scherber et al. reported that plant diversity has S
and adapt to different environmental conditions [47]. This is strong bottom-up effects in multi-trophic networks [50]. -
equivalent to combining in our model simulations performed To conclude, within a single food web model, we found 2
with different respiration and mortality rates or carrying instances of positive, negative or no correlations between func- S
capacities. Both parameters are well known to respond to tional diversity and ecosystem functioning measures. The w
environmental conditions [34-36]. diversity of our results highlights the fact that there is no =~
By varying the respiration and mortality rate x», we found global answer to the question of how biodiversity interacts ©
the same BEF relations as during the initial build-up of the net- with ecosystem functioning, because different mechanisms are 3
works (figure 4). Again, this can be explained with a top-down involved and each of them affects BEF relations in different ways. =

argument: higher values of the respiration rate increase the bio-

mass loss of the system, which directly leads to a decreased