
4. Discussion identities of particular species might be driving varying
By employing a landscape level approach across a tropical levels of biomass across these landscapes. For example, the
and a temperate region, our study effectively disentangles occurrences of particular species that are competitively domi-
the potential mechanisms responsible for driving differences nant where particular resources are available are likely to
in ecosystem functioning across landscapes. We found that drive locally increased biomass in European forests [37].
both spatial and environmental distance are important for Perhaps most strikingly, we found evidence for highly con-
driving turnover in community composition, leading to sistent patterns between the tropical and temperate study
clear differences among sampling sites in overall rates of regions in the mechanisms that had direct effects on spatial
energy flux in multitrophic communities of litter macroinver- variation in ecosystem functioning. In both study regions, we
tebrates. Despite some differences in the relative strength of found that turnover in biomass and species richness among
effects on various community attributes (such as a- and plots was highly important for turnover in energy flux. In
6-diversity) and energy fluxes, we found remarkable simi- fact, even the standardized effect size of these variables on
larities in the potential mechanisms driving these responses energy flux was almost identical between the two regions,
between the Indonesian and German study regions. with changes in energy flux turnover of 73% in Indonesia
Interestingly, we found that environmental distance had versus 77% in Germany in response to biomass turnover, and

a stronger effect on species turnover in the Indonesian 27% versus 21% changes in energy flux turnover (in Indonesia


and Germany, respectively) in response to a-diversity turn- consistent and generalizable patterns in BEF relationships at

over. These results strongly support the species richness (H2) the landscape scale probably exist. These results call for various
and biomass (H4) hypotheses. Regarding the species richness new avenues of BEF research, such as the extension of land- a
hypothesis, it is likely that increasing species richness of poten- scape level mechanistic tests of BEF relationships to s