the six month hibernation period (diapause) [9]. When brought core, appeared to have different sensitivity to the antimicrobial
into room temperature for an experiment, the metabolism peptides (AMPs). Despite the advantages of H. cecropia, it was a
remained low for up to a week while the response to bacterial tedious job, carried out in cold-rooms with large columns,
infection was strongly and rapidly induced. In addition, a ‘sticky proteins’ and low retrieval.
single H. cecropia pupa could yield up to 2 ml haemolymph, The first AMPs, P9 A-B and P7 (a lysozyme), were purified
which significantly eased the biochemical extractions. Both and published in 1980 [6]. In his work, Hultmark developed a
large and fairly pure yields of immune factors could hence be simple yet elegant acidic gel assay, where clearance zones of
obtained. With the use of radioactive amino acid labelling a bacterial lawn grown on top of the gel reflected the activity
during the course of the challenge, peptides/ proteins induced of the antimicrobial compounds (figure 2b). The amino acid
and excreted in the haemolymph were obtained through frac- sequence was subsequently deciphered, and the P9 peptides
tionation followed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide were designated cecropin A and B [13]. The structure and puta-
gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), and were designated P1—P8 tive mode of action was resolved to a certain extent by circular
according to descending molecular weight [7,8]. In fact, the dichroism spectroscopy (CD spectra) and Nuclear magnetic
smallest but most potent compound isolated, P9, was later resonance (NMR) [14,15]. The cecropins appear as a random
found initially to be migrating out of the gels. Two of the structure in hydrophilic solutions but form two amphipathic
major immune proteins from H. cecropia, P4 and P5, were a-helices with a three amino acid-long linker in-between in a
first purified merely on the basis of radioactive amino acid hydrophobic surrounding (figure 2c). These types of peptides
incorporation (see below) [10,11]. Antisera against these pro- were recognized as particularly active in membrane bilayers,
teins were prepared at the time, but the antimicrobial similar to melittin (a bee venom constituent). It was postulated
properties were not clarified. that several cecropin molecules could disturb bacterial outer
After 10 years in Umea, Boman was appointed Professor of membranes and result in lysis in synergy with lysozyme,
Microbiology at Stockholm University in 1976. He attracted which acts on the peptidoglycan component of the cell envel-
new collaborators and group members, including Hakan ope. During this period, six isoforms of P5 were also purified
Steiner, Dan Hultmark (at the time, a postdoctoral fellow and on the basis of antimicrobial activity and named attacins [16].
PhD student, respectively) and the group of Hans Bennich, bio- Chromatofocusing revealed two main groups, one with basic