suchas the production of ROS or the expression of antimicrobial Together, these data indicate that the autophagy machin-
peptides (AMPs). It may still be involved in the elimination of ery is required for C. elegans defence against infection
pathogens, and thus it can provide an additional immune effec- with the facultative and obligate intracellular pathogens
tor process. In the following, we will summarize the evidence S. enterica and N. parisii, respectively, and the extracellular
for its contribution to C. elegans immune defence. Autophagy pathogens S. aureus and P. aeruginosa. The exact protective
is a process during which intracellular material is sequestered mechanism of autophagy and mitophagy still needs to be
within double-membrane vesicles (autophagosomes) and then determined. While autophagy might act in the direct elimin-
targeted for lysosomal degradation. In this way, autophagy ation of intracellular pathogens (as proposed by [39,42]), both
recycles intracellular components to produce energy during autophagy and mitophagy might help the host in coping
nutrient depletion, or removes potentially toxic material with the cellular damage caused by infection (as proposed
which is generated during, for example, oxidative stress, to pre- by Visvikis et al. [23]), thus indirectly increasing tolerance
vent cellular damage. Autophagy is thus an important part of against extracellular pathogens. The latter idea is supported
the protective surveillance machinery of the cell. In addition, by the fact that autophagy was shown to protect C. elegans
autophagy plays a role in defence against pathogens by deliver- against necrosis during P. aeruginosa infection [43].

ing intracellular microorganisms to lysosomes in both
specialized immune cells and epithelial cells [38].

In C. elegans, autophagy is required for host defence against (c) Caenacins and related peptides
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium [39,0], N. parisii The families of neuropeptide-like proteins (NLPs) and
and S. aureus [23], and mitophagy (the specific elimination of caenacins (CNCs) are antimicrobial peptides that are phylo-
mitochondria by autophagy) for resistance to Pseudomonas genetically closely related. They were first discovered in a
aeruginosa [41]. Its contribution to defence against these four microarray analysis of the C. elegans transcriptional response
pathogens shows some variation, as explained in more detail to infection with the fungus D. coniospora [44]. Unlike most
in the following: (i) S. enterica, a facultative intracellular patho- other C. elegans pathogens, which establish an infection in the