3. Results the BINs in 25 families from these three orders to a species
The single primer set employed in this study recovered an level; this analysis confirmed the absence of many known
amplicon from 89.7% of the specimens that were analysed taxa as our collections included just 23% of the species in
and 86.6% of all specimens delivered a barcode-compliant nine beetle families, 32% of those in six hemipteran families,
record although amplicons were only sequenced in one direc- and 54% of the known species in 10 lepidopteran families
tion. Despite this high success, there was significant variation (table 2). Despite this evidence for undersampling, BIN/SP
in sequence recovery among the orders, being highest in was more than 1.0 for Hymenoptera (2.05) and Diptera
Diptera and Lepidoptera, lowest in Hemiptera and Hymen- (3.34). The estimated BIN counts, based upon the lognormal
optera, with Coleoptera and the other orders intermediate abundance model [31], strongly suggest that Diptera is the
(table 1). The recovery of contaminated sequences varied most diverse insect order in Canada, with more than 37 000
little among orders, but there was substantial variation in species estimated to occur at the sites examined in this study.
the frequency of short sequences, reflecting premature To better understand the origins of the high diversity in
termination of sequencing reactions. In fact, they composed Diptera, BIN/SP was examined on a family-by-family basis
10% of the records for Hymenoptera versus less than 1% (electronic supplementary material, table S4). This calculation
‘or Diptera. Also, there were clear differences among orders revealed that most families possessed a ratio close to unity
in the incidence of PCR failure, situations that probably (figure 4). However, the Cecidomyiidae and Sciaridae showed
reflect compromised primer binding. BIN counts far higher than their known species count: over

Considering all orders, 0.94 million specimens received a 85x higher for the Cecidomyiidae and nearly 75x higher for
BIN assignment and they included representatives of 46937 the Sciaridae. In fact, the Cecidomyiidae composed 18.0% of
BINs belonging to 478 insect families. This study did not encoun- all BINs (8467/46 937) collected in the present survey, making
ter any specimens from 111 of the 589 insect families known from them, by far, the most diverse insect family in Canada.
Canada (electronic supplementary material, table S2), all rep- Although variation in the mean nearest-neighbour (NN) dis-
resented in the fauna by fewer than 10 species excepting two tance among the species composing each family did occur,
families of lice (Menoponidae, 100 species; Philopteridae, 200 the differences were generally small. As expected, NN distances