
no. known species in family

Figure 4. BIN count versus known species count for 87 families of Canadian Diptera. Points above the line represent families with more BINs than known species.
Different colours indicate variation in mean nearest-neighbour (NN) distances (K2P) for the BINs in each family based on sequence divergences in the COI barcode region.
n.a., data unavailable because only one BIN was analysed in this family.

Cecidomyiidae. Although it has been estimated that 1600 that limit species diversity. Hutchinson [42] argued that com-
species of this family occur in Canada, just 100 species have petition was the primary force, but this conclusion has been
been documented [16]. By contrast, this study established challenged [44]. Felsenstein [45] proposed that the primary
the occurrence of nearly 9000 species and further suggests constraint was genetic, suggesting that the species count
that as many as 16000 species occur at the sites examined would be far higher (‘a species under every bush’) if
in this study, implying the presence of considerably more speciation was easier to accomplish. The fact that the key
than 20000 species in Canada. If this count represents 1% drivers of animal diversity remain uncertain [46-48] reveals
of its global diversity, there could be two million species of the need to extend knowledge of biodiversity patterns and
cecidomyiids. While sometimes proposed as the most diverse the variation in genetic systems that might influence them.
dipteran family [39], quantification of its species richness has By documenting the spectacular diversity of the Cecidomyii-
been viewed as an insurmountable task, leaving the species dae, this study suggests the importance of genetic constraints
count for the family as ‘inestimable’ [40]. The results of on species diversity because members of this family employ
this study suggest that DNA barcoding can resolve this a mode of reproduction, haplodiploidy, that is otherwise
uncertainty, although more geographical regions need to almost unknown among Diptera [49]. Is it simply by chance
be analysed. Interestingly, ongoing barcode projects confirm that this breeding system is also shared by Hymenoptera
that cecidomyiids are also a dominant component of and by at least some Sciaridae? Might the linkage between
Malaise trap catches in the tropics, comprising 23-35% of haplodiploidy and extraordinary species numbers indicate
the BINs at several sites in Argentina and Costa Rica (P.H. that this mode of reproduction accelerates speciation enough