
with relative success. Although there has been the occasional often require the successful recovery of multiple diagnostic a
large-scale study identifying hundreds of samples [47], eptides. Thus, mass spectra from poorly preserved samples Ss
DNA-based studies howe boc primarily applied to demon- may only allow identification to ‘nisher taxonomic levels Ss
strate the feasibility of these molecular techniques, or at the (family, order) if diagnostic peptide markers are absent. Gen- a.
site level, to identify the range of species exploited within a etic methods may be required to clarify species identity and 5
geographically restricted region. Among the aforementioned are certainly required for identification to the subspecies or =
specimens in the North Sea case study, only two have been ident- population levels. However, applying ZooMS as an initial =
ified through ancient DNA analysis (two fin whale specimens, at screening method can provide a cost-effective preliminary ‘=
Barreau Saint Georges, France) [48]. There is thus much identification, as well as insight into overall biomolecular pres- ©
unexploited potential for the application of these methods to ervation and the likely success for subsequent DNA analysis = -s
the analysis of ancient specimens. However, the relatively high [58] or radiocarbon dating [59]. =
cost of these analyses and the fact that they need to be done Biomolecular identification approaches such as DNA bar- S
in specialized laboratories (to prevent DNA contamination) coding and ZooMS can offer robust taxonomic identifications -
remains a limiting factor to their large-scale application. of ancient cetaceans, however, they can be limited by tapho- 2

nomic histories and biomolecular preservation. Some studies,
for example, have noted a high presence of inhibitory substances — w

(b) Zooarchaeology by mass spectrometry: collagen in ancient whale bones, compromising the success of PCR =
peptide mass fingerprinting amplifications [60-62]. Also, archaeological whale bone has = ©
Peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF) has been widely used as a often been burned, limiting the quantity and quality of DNA 3
rapid and cost-effective protein identification method based and collagen that can be obtained from the samples [63,64]. ©
upon the pattern of mass-to-charge (m/z) ratios [49]. Most Likewise, biomolecular degradation can be extensive in samples
recently, it has been developed for the most abundant protein recovered from tropical or sub-tropical environments [65,66].