molecular method, illustrating the limitations of working with high-throughput methods in future cetacean barcoding pro- -
degraded archaeological materials. jects. Traditional mtDNA barcoding approaches are well &
Of the five samples previously believed to correspond to established, and typically provide robust species identifi: <,
gray whale, three were identified as fin whale and one as cations (with the exception of cross-species hybrids [39]) for &
sperm whale, with the fifth identified only as a ‘baleen modern, degraded and ancient samples. However, the need =
whale’. Thus, none of the samples could be confirmed as gray for careful sample preparation, clean-room extraction and = =
whale using molecular approaches. These results illustrate the replicability when working with ancient remains can signifi- &
necessity of validating anatomical identifications using molecu- cantly increase the laboratory time and associated costs when =~
lar techniques, even more so as this is not the first study to working with many hundreds of remains. ZooMS, on the
reveal previously misidentified whale remains. For example, a other hand, can more easily be scaled up for large datasets:
mtDNA-based analysis of seventeenth century Basque whaling using a plate approach, up to 96 samples can be processed at
remains determined that morphological identifications pre- one time [74], potentially allowing for up to 1000 samples to
viously assigned to right whale were in fact bowhead whale be analysed per week [75]. Although ZooMS is a cost-effective,
[69]. Likewise, molecular analyses of archaeological cetacean high-throughput screening method for large sample sets, it often
fragments from Tierra del Fuego believed to correspond to lacks the taxonomic precision offered by genetic analysis. Given
the remains of a single animal within a hunter-gatherer the importance of accurate molecular identifications for ancient
midden revealed the presence of multiple whale species as whale bones and the large proportion of unidentified archaeolo-
well as non-cetaceans (e.g. human, pinniped) [42]. This latter gical and palaeontological remains, the future will probably rely
study also demonstrated that available museum reference on next-generation sequencing (NGS) approaches, which can
specimens may themselves have been incorrectly identified offer both taxonomic precision and bulk processing. Here, we
using anatomical methods. These and other studies (e.g. review the advantages and limitations of NGS methods, includ-
[47,70]) collectively highlight the crucial need for the molecular ing hybridization capture approaches, and their application to
screening of existing and future zooarchaeological collections modern and ancient ecological studies.

containing whale bones.