of cortical columns in auditory cortex [113] further encourages
a more detailed exploration of the granularity of the human
cortex, which may vary with brain area and function. Is colum-
nar organization a universal principle [114,115]? Or does
experience-driven cortical self-organization result in columnar
organization only in specific areas in which this wiring strategy
is optimal? In order to focus efforts using MRI to investigate
such questions, a deeper understanding of cortical functional
anatomy, based on animal studies and post-mortem human
brain histology, would be helpful.

task. The Trampel et al. study [96] summarized above (figures 1 (0) Sparse encoding versus population encoding
and 2) relies on the fact that the output to the corticospinal tract ECoG studies in entorhinal cortex [116] show that individual
of motor nerves from agranular primary motor cortex M1 arises neurons, each responsive to a wide range of visually pre-
almost entirely from large pyramidal neurons in layer V. Thus, sented examples of a single object or person, are sparsely
in the motor imagery condition, with no motor output, one distributed within this cortical area. Even if a BOLD signal
might expect a comparatively lower activation signal from from such an area could be obtained from presentation of a
layer V—as was indeed observed. Fortunately, the cortical particular object, this does not mean that the entire area rep-
thickness in M1 is unusually large, about 4 mm, which facili- resents that object, or even class of objects. By contrast,
tated the discrimination of specific cortical layers using {MRI. spatially mapped cortical areas such as retinotopic areas
Other experimental paradigms offer themselves for this conversely use population encoding as an important compu-
type of study. For instance, primary auditory cortex is well tational principle. Research with invasive techniques on
known to be activated by auditory input, but also strongly animal models will surely reveal many more instances of
modulated by auditory imagery [112]. Sensory input to audi- each type of encoding—which ultimately might be found to
tory cortex arrives in layer IV, whereas top-down modulation correlate with the distinctive cyto- and myeloarchitecture of