performed by subpopulations of neurons. Nevertheless,

there are now well-validated strategies that can be used to 2. Characterizing repetition suppression

refine the coarse resolution of the fMRI signal which provide

a means to investigate neural activity at the meso-scale, the at a single-cell level
level of neural representations. Repetition suppression was first reported from single-unit
Two fMRI techniques are currently being widely used to recordings in the primate inferotemporal (IT) cortex [35]. In
access neural information in humans at a more precise spatial response to repeated presentation of a light stimulus
resolution, namely repetition suppression and multivariate (figure 1a), neurons in the IT cortex initially showed a large
pattern analysis. {MRI repetition suppression (also termed response (figure 1b), but with repeated exposure to the stimu-
fMRI adaptation) relies on the fact that neurons show suppres- lus the response waned (figure 1c—d). When the stimulus was
sion in their response to repeated presentation of stimuli presented again, after it had been turned off for 15 min, the
or information to which they are sensitive (see the following response of the neuron was fully recovered (figure 1e).
for existing reviews: [16—20]). This phenomenon is robustly Repetition suppression has since been observed in single-
observed across brain regions and species, in wake and sleep, unit activity across a large number of different experimental
and using a range of different measurement techniques. conditions and brain regions, including the IT cortex [35,37—39],
fMRI multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA), on the other V1 [40-44], somatosensory cortex [45], prefrontal cortex (PFC)
hand, takes advantage of small biases in the distribution [46,47], rhinal cortex [48], entorhinal and perirhinal cortex ([36],
of functionally specific neurons across neighbouring voxels. see figure 1f—h for example repetition suppression in the entorh-
Such biases give rise to variation in the activation pattern inal cortex). Repetition suppression can occur across a range of
across voxels, which can be used to infer underlying neural rep- repetition time lags, including when multiple interleaving
resentations (see the following for existing reviews: [21-24]). stimuli are presented in between the repeating stimulus
Multivariate approaches are powerful when applied to brain [36,49] (figure 2). In a small portion of neurons, the repetition