signal during intermediate time bins following stimulus onset (blue: expected; red: unexpected). Both plots: both repetition and expectation of an auditory tone give
reduced neural signal during late time bins following stimulus onset. Time is denoted along the x-axis and periods during which a significant effect was observed
are shown in grey’. The average auditory evoked response measured using MEG is shown on the y-axis. Adapted from [103].

show cross-stimulus adaptation in proportion to neural selec- sequences violate transition rules between visual stimuli that
tivity [65]. Notably, however this does not necessarily were learned during training [109]. These results appeal to a
compromise the ability to use fMRI adaptation to index long line of literature showing heightened responses in
neural selectivity within a voxel because much of the received scalp-evoked potentials and neuroimaging measurements
input comes from other neurons within the voxel. A relevant when stimuli are unexpected or novel [110-113].
question for future investigation concerns whether, with an Although these results appear to suggest a common
unbiased selection of neurons, average suppression is equal mechanism for repetition suppression and stimulus expec-
to average selectivity across the population. However, even tation, there is increasing evidence to suggest that these two
with the data provided in [65], it is likely that with the appro- phenomena are in fact mediated by distinct processes. Firstly,
priate controls, bulk suppression effects can provide in macaque IT, expectation suppression can be observed with
information about population selectivity. single-unit and LFP measurements when learned transition
Mechanisms for repetition suppression derived from statistics are violated, but repetition suppression is not modu-
single-unit measurements can therefore be used to guide lated by expectation [114]. Similarly, in humans, expectation
interpretation of fMRI repetition suppression effects. However, does not modulate repetition suppression in LOC when
by imaging the whole brain at once, human brain imaging repetition frequency is more subtly modulated (60%:40%
provides an opportunity to test alternative explanations for repetition frequency) [115]. Therefore, expectation suppres-
repetition suppression, most notably the hypothesis that rep- sion is not necessarily observed in concert with repetition
etition suppression can be accounted for by predictive coding suppression.
[20,77,99]. Inspired by models of perceptual inference, predic- Secondly, when attention is explicitly modulated in an
tive coding describes how the brain anticipates upcoming fMRI study, expectation suppression is only observed when
events and generates an error signal when predictions are vio- participants are attending [116], while repetition suppression