/

Lo.

Figure 1. Illustration of an example experimental set-up in which a human interacts with a humanoid robot iCub [8], while behavioural, neural and physiological
Measures are taken to examine the human social cognition. (Online version in colour.)

Artificial (embodied) agents can be used in the study of perception share a common representational code. The dis-
social cognition in a twofold manner. They can play a role covery of mirror neurons [10] tagged a common neural
of ‘stimuli’, or agents that participants observe/interact mechanism for action and perception domains and provided
with; or they can serve as embodied models of social cogni- evidence for the common coding hypothesis [9,16—18], which
tion. In the first case, embodiment is critical for studying posits that observing an action automatically triggers acti-
social cognition due to the fact that real-time interactive scen- vation of action execution representations. Interestingly,
arios with an embodied agent are crucial for mechanisms of mirror neurons are also active when the meaning of an
human social cognition [5-7], while in the second case, serv- action can be inferred from sounds [9] or other hints [19].
ing as models of social cognition in a naturalistic social These findings have been taken to support the idea that the
environment, they also need to be embodied. This paper mirror neuron system plays a functional role for action under-
will focus only on the first case: artificial embodied agents standing [20]. Some authors have proposed that the mirror
used as ‘stimuli’ in studying social cognition. neuron system is responsible not only for action understand-

The paper will review several behavioural and neural ing, but also for imitative learning [21] and may even provide
mechanisms of social cognition examined with the use of artifi- a basis for communication and language acquisition [22].
cial agents and humanoid robots in particular (figure 1). First, in Because of common coding, action observation impacts
§2, low-level mechanisms of social cognition (such as motor and activity in the motor system of the observer (motor resonance).
