engages research participants. Another weak claim is that Consider an example where, we argue, social interaction
social interaction needs to be considered as providing important plays a constitutive role in the performance of a social task.
contextual modulation of the social brain. To our knowledge, This is the perceptual crossing experiment by Auvray et al. [4]
nobody disagrees with these claims. They are now actively (figure 1). Two blindfolded participants are told to freely
pursued in social neuroscience, as evidenced in the other move a sensor (a computer mouse) along a shared virtual line.
contributions in this issue; we do not further treat them here. In this virtual ‘world’, each participant can encounter two differ-
A stronger claim is that social interaction facilitates particu- ent kinds of objects, one fixed in space and two moving objects.
lar kinds of brain processes: that is, there is a strong enabling One of the moving objects corresponds to the scanning sensor of
role for social interaction [2]. For instance, it is well known the other participant, and the other is attached to this sensor at a
that development in the absence of social interaction (severe fixed distance, like a ‘shadow’. In terms of their trajectories, the
social deprivation, in humans or other mammals) results in a moving objects are indistinguishable. Whenever her sensor
highly abnormal brain with highly abnormal cognition [3]. encounters an object on this line, the participant receives an
This fact also suggests important constraints on the design of on/off tactile stimulus—a tap on the finger, which is the same
artificial cognitive systems. To our knowledge, this claim is for each kind of object. This situation is symmetrical for both
also uncontentious. We do not discuss this enabling aspect of participants. Note that when a participant’s sensor encounters
social cognition here either. the shadow of the other participant, only the first participant
The hypothesis we discuss here concerns an occurrent will receive a tactile stimulus. When the two sensors meet,
instance of social cognition. We claim that a normal adult both participants receive a stimulus simultaneously.
human brain in isolation is insufficient for a typical instance of Participants are instructed to click the mouse button when-
social cognition. Of course, we acknowledge that the brain ever they judge they are in contact with the other participant.
plays a large, and probably major, role in social cognition." As a result, statistically, mouse clicks tend to concentrate on
But processes occurring in that brain at the time of an each other's sensors (65.9% of clicks) and not on the identically
instance of social cognition are, in the typical case, not fully moving shadow objects (23%). This means that participants
constitutive of social cognition: additional events are also can find each other by ‘perceptually crossing’ their scanning
required. Those additional events involve relations between activities. However, the authors find that the probability of