the time course of stroke position, deviation and wing rotation determines the aerodynamic angle of attack, are quite small.
angles (figures 1a and 3). One strategy for untangling the rela- Flies regulate pitch torque through a combined alteration of
tive contributions of these three parameters is to measure the all three wing kinematic angles (figure 3b). The most important
forces and moments created by synthetic wing strokes on a change based on measurements using a robotic fly, however, is
dynamically scaled robot in which one kinematic parameter a distortion in the time course of the stroke angle such that
changes as it does during actual free flight manoeuvres, the dorsal excursion of the wing shifts either forward or back-
while other parameters remain as in the normal hovering ward, depending upon whether the fly desires to increase or
pattern [27]. In this way, it is possible to measure the aerody- decrease nose-up pitch torque, respectively (figure 3b). Such
namic effects of kinematic features in isolation and quantify adjustments have the effect of changing the position of the
the interactions among different features. stroke-averaged centre of pressure relative to the fly’s centre
To throttle, flies must increase the magnitude of the mean of mass. Changes in stroke deviation and wing rotation angle
force vector without tilting its orientation. They accomplish do contribute to pitch, however, and their effects are amplified
this primarily by increasing the amplitude and frequency of by the fact that they alter aerodynamics when the wings are
the stroke, the combined effect of which is to raise the near their dorsal and ventral extremes, where the effects on
mean velocity of the wings (figure 3a). Owing to the squared pitch moments are greatest [27]. When creating nose-up
dependence on velocity, even small changes in amplitude pitch, for example, flies slightly advance the timing of wing
and frequency have substantial effects on flight force. Flies rotation and plunge the wing further downward at the start
also alter the pattern of stroke deviation when they throttle, of the upstroke (figure 3b).
creating slightly stronger plunging movements at the start Unlike throttle and pitch control, changes in roll and yaw
of each half stroke. Although this effect is secondary to that involve asymmetrical alterations in the stroke kinematics of the
of the changes in frequency and amplitude, this also serves two wings. Flies generate roll moments through a combined
to increase wing velocity (because the wing must follow a alteration of all three wing angles, for which the changes

longer path) and results in larger forces immediately after in stroke angle and wing rotation are most important
