
birds support a rate of oxygen consumption of 13.8 mmol 0, kg ' min” ', which is 17 times that during rest and this is represented by the total area of the larger
(flight) quadrangle. (Adapted from Peters et al. [32].)

and 0.13 jam, respectively, whereas in wild African rock mar- how they might survive at such high altitudes, but also how
tins (Hirundo fuligula), the respective values are 86.5 cm* g~* they manage to perform such a high level of aerobic exercise
and 0.09 ym [36]. These latter values are very similar to as flapping flight under such hypoxic conditions (reviewed
those from the lungs of violet-eared hummingbirds (Colibri by Butler [41]). At an altitude equivalent to that at the top of
coruscans): 87 cm? g! and 0.10 pm [37]. Mt Everest (8848 m), Po, and air density are approximately
Oxygen extraction by muscles depends to a large extent one-third of those at sea level (6.7 kPa and 0.47 g m°, respect-
on the density of blood capillaries in those muscles; the ively, as opposed to 21 kPa and 1.22 g m™°). This means that
greater the capillary density, the greater the surface area for not only is there much less oxygen available, but lift generation
gas exchange (equation (4.3)). In fact, the flight muscles of becomes more difficult, although drag is proportionately
passerines that migrate long distances have a greater capillary reduced. Despite the reduction in drag, the minimum mechan-
density (1935 capillaries mm?) than those of species that are ical cost of flying (P,) is over 50% greater at the higher altitude
only partially migratory or do not migrate at all (1604 capil- [29]. So, how do bar-headed geese do it?
laries mm~, [38]). An extreme example is the flight muscle Perhaps one of the most important adaptations in bar-
of rufous hummingbirds which has a capillary density of headed geese is the possession of haemoglobin (Hb) that
7000 mm“? [8]. Rufous hummingbirds migrate from the wes- has a higher affinity for oxygen than that of other species
tern edges of North America to the wooded areas of Mexico of birds [41]. This means that the oxygen equilibrium curve
each year, a distance of approximately 3500 km. For compari- (OEC) is shifted to the left in bar-headed geese relative to
son, the flight muscles of sedentary and wild pigeons have a that in other birds, and the P,O2 at which the Hb is 50%
capillary density of approximately 4000 mm? [7]. saturated (Ps) is lower. For example, P59 for the blood of

bar-headed geese at pH 7.5 is approximately 5 kPa compared