
If asymmetry precedes the L/R organizer, then what is the mechanism, providing a possible molecular explanation for
symmetry-breaking event and when does it occur? A common the Ying and Yang developmental outcome described above.
view of development suggests that cells in the embryo initially Another alternative model of symmetry breaking is
are undifferentiated, and that a morphogen gradient is gener- grounded in the role of the cytoskeleton, with a mechanism
ated to specify gene regulatory networks on cells located at that has strong implications for evolution. It should be
different locations in the embryo [11]. This model was adapted appreciated that intracellular features of cellular polarity
by Wolpert [12] for explaining general development, including and cytoskeleton comprising cellular chirality (to be pre-
L/R axis determination [13], and has constituted the major sented below) must play a critical role for the SSIS
paradigm for guiding developmental biology research con- mechanism to operate. Nodal ciliary flow is absent in pig
ducted for decades. The variety of data described in this and chick, as well as Drosophila, snails and Caenorhabditis
issue reveals that asymmetry mechanisms are far broader. In elegans; thus, if cilia are crucial in some situations, then the
fact, in a 2009 interview, Wolpert discarded the morphogen origin of asymmetry must be highly divergent across phyla.
model by stating: ‘diffusible gradients are out’ [14, p. 659]. In By contrast, intracellular cytoskeletal elements are highly con-
our view, the mechanisms of L/R axis remain open, with served; recent data revealed a microtubule protein that was
two emerging (and non-mutually exclusive) alternatives to functionally implicated in asymmetry of plants, C. elegans,
the morphogen model: both place the element of initial L/R Xenopus and human cells [10]. One possibility is that asym-
asymmetry inside the cell, as opposed to extracellular fluid metry is an ancient property that predates the origins of
flow, and notably at a much earlier time point (early cleavage). multicellularity; even bacteria [16], unicellular ciliates [17]

As expertly presented by Klar [15], one intriguing model that and slime moulds [18] exhibit asymmetry. Satir’s paper [19]
is fundamentally different from the commonly invoked mor- deftly overviews the many actin filaments and microtubule
phogen model is based on DNA strand-specific segregation, processes in cells that exhibit chiral properties, and illustrates
driven by the mechanism of somatic strand-specific imprinting how helical properties of cytoskeletal elements instruct cell
and selective chromatid segregation (SSIS). This mechanism behaviour and subsequent morphogenesis.