
Figure 2. Wind support on arrival at during stopover (median of the entire duration) and at departure from the stopover site before the Sahara crossing during both
autumn and spring migration. (a) The boxplot of the birds’ tailwind component for each pressure level (and corresponding altitude) and for the optimal level, that is
the resultant tailwind if each bird was able to select the pressure level that provided the best wind condition along its own departure directions (presented in
electronic supplementary material, figure $4). (b) The pressure layers that provided the optimal level included in upper panel. When the winds are not favourable,
that is no tailwind opportunity available, the birds are forced to depart with the wind that provided with the lowest headwind (negative values in (a); shaded colour
in (6). To exclude birds that started the spring migration crossing from the wintering area, we included in the analysis only birds departing after a stopover duration
not longer than 30 days (autumn n = 54, spring n = 33).

(figure 2). Indeed, the mean tailwind component at the optimal tailwind component resulted in negative values (—0.6 +
level (based on the most favourable wind condition for each 2.5ms_'), and thus not favourable winds for departure. The
bird) was in both cases positive (mean + s.d.: 13+3.6ms ' fact that autumn departures occurred with mainly positive tail-
and 3.8 + 2.1 ms inautumn and spring, respectively), indicat- winds (1.9+3.7 ms _', figure 2), supports the fact that birds
ing that it was a favourable situation for the birds to immediately were waiting for more favourable (or less disadvantageous)
continue on migration across the Sahara when arriving at the winds before initiating the Sahara crossing when leaving the
stopover site immediately preceding the Sahara crossing. European and North African stopover sites.

The prevalent winds during stopover after day 1 in The wind conditions during the stopover in spring were
autumn were mainly directed towards the northeast (electronic different to that in autumn, such that the winds were mainly
supplementary material, figure S8), which is in the opposite favourable for crossing the Sahara by movements to the
direction to the expected departure direction of the birds (elec- north throughout spring stopovers (mean optimal level
tronic supplementary material, figure S6). As a consequence, tailwind+s.d.: 1.9+1.5ms'). Furthermore, the wind
even if the swifts were selecting the pressure level with the opti- speeds at the time of departure during spring were high

mal wind support (optimal level in figure 2a), the resultant mean (4.3 + 2.0 ms_'), but not different from the winds on arrival