conditions. This presumably allows them to exploit updrafts groundspeed rather than to airspeed. Such an analysis could
that would be unsuitable for sustained soaring on fixed wings. appear to lead to different conclusions regarding the mechan-

The third scalar product in equation (2.3) (-mU - dW/dt) is ism of shear soaring, because the largest gain in kinetic energy
equal to mU multiplied by the scalar projection of the time relative to the ground occurs when a bird turns downwind
derivative of the wind (dW/dt) onto the headwind direction near the top of the shear layer [13,28], which is not associated
vector (h), defined as the unit vector opposite to the bird’s air with any gain in kinetic energy relative to the air [15,16]. How-
velocity vector (figure 1). We will write this projection as ever, it is the bird’s airspeed—not its groundspeed—which
dW, /dt, and can therefore rewrite the third scalar product determines the aerodynamic force that is produced. Moreover,
as mU(dW;//dt). It should be noted that the projection of the the fundamental source of energy in shear soaring is the vari-
time derivative of the wind onto h is not identical to the time ation in wind speed that the bird encounters as it passes
derivative of the projection of the wind onto h, which reflects through the shear layer [32]. Hence, while it is possible to use
the fact that a bird cannot harvest aerodynamically useful either formulation to solve for flight trajectories that result in
mechanical energy from a constant wind field merely by turn- no net change in mechanical energy over a period of cyclical
ing into the wind. The resulting term mU(dW;/dt) represents ascent and descent [28,38], the mechanism by which useful
dynamic soaring, and measures the rate at which useful kinetic kinetic energy is gained must be understood in relation to the
energy is obtained from a time-varying wind field. Because bird’s movement relative to the air, not the ground. This
U> 0, it is clear by inspection that energy will be gained accords with the original verbal description of the mechanism
through dynamic soaring if and only if dW, /dt > 0, which is by Rayleigh [32].

satisfied when flying in either a strengthening headwind or a
weakening tailwind. The principle of dynamic soaring can

therefore be captured in one very simple rule: fly upwind in a (b) Aerodynamic cost of transport ina moving
strengthening wind and downwind in a weakening wind.