half-way up the thigh, across the flexor muscle-group to the mid-ventral line of the
limb in the lower third of the thigh. It is not easy to determine where the posterior
border joins the ventral border, partly because the line of direction of the two borders
is so similar, It is also partly for the same reason not easy to determine the point at
which the anterior border joins the ventral border. In fact, the exact limits of the
veritral border I have not been able to satisfactorily demonstrate. Individual variation —
is one of the difficulties standing in the way of the determination. The dorsal border
forms the most distal part of the mid-dorsal line of the limb, and extends to a little
below the level of the knee. The ventral border as far as one can judge of it appears
to lie not so distally on the mid-ventral line of the limb as does ventral border of the
Vth. The most distal part of the mid-ventral line of the limb is therefore occupied
by the Vth lumbar field, but the most distal part of the mid-ventral line of the
limb is occupied by the VIth lumbar field. This is in harmony with the fact that
the ventral edge of the IIIrd lumbar field is the first to leave the mid-ventral line of
the trunk and run to a lateral extension of the mid-ventral line on the limb, while
the commencement of the mid-dorsal line of the limb is not made until the IVth
lumbar segment is reached. A means of testing the correctness of this determination
of the borders of the VIth lumbar skin-field lies in delimiting the field and then
determining the modification in its area produced by section of the posterior or the
anterior half of the root. This I did in three experiments with the results detailed
above. The object directly in view was largely frustrated by the great degree of
overlap existing between the fields of the anterior and posterior halves of the posterior
root. In the experiment in which the filaments composing the anterior half of the
nerve-root were severed, the only result detected was an extension of the great notch
on the front of the skin somewhat further down toward the ankle; that is to say,