affects all Aspergillus diseases

64-71% of cases have no previous azole treatment characteristics:
high mortality in culture-positive patients with IA patients with chronic lung diseases
limited-resistance mutation diversity presence of a pulmonary cavity

(long-term) azole therapy
azole-susceptible and azole-resistant colonies in culture
high mutation diversity

Figure 1. Characteristics of azole-resistant Aspergillus infections by the environmental and patient-acquired route.

aspergillosis owing to the fact that between 80 and 90% of suggested that this species may be a panmictic (globally
clinical drug-resistant strains contain one of the above mech- unstructured and randomly interbreeding) organism [69].
anisms [63]. In addition to the cyp51A-mediated resistance The implication of being a cosmopolitan sexual organism is
mechanisms, about 10% of the resistant strains found in that there are little or no barriers to gene flow; the corollary
nature have no mutations in the cyp51A gene. It is highly being that a unique allele (such as TR34/L98H), that has a
likely that induced azole efflux mechanism is also involved selective advantage over wild-type alleles, can theoretically
in non-cyp51A-mediated resistance [26]. There are potentially penetrate all genetic backgrounds. If true, then this means
(many) other, undiscovered, mechanisms that lead to azole that azole-resistance alleles that carry a selective advantage
resistance such as seen in the human fungal pathogen in nature have an essentially unlimited potential to disperse
C. albicans where induced aneuploidy and isochromosome in space. A previous study by Rydholm ef al. [70], analysing
formations can occur [64]. One mechanism has been recently the genetic structure of A. fumigatus, suggested that A. fumiga-
described in a patient with aspergillosis on long-term azole tus is cosmopolitan and randomly breeding across a global
treatment, namely a P88 L substitution in HapE, but this scale. A subsequent study, while confirming these aspects of