

is composed of the experiences of the agent solving a specific singular embodied self and the social and physical world. In Ea

instance of the H4W problem and its associated exterocep- this proposal consciousness is by necessity intentional because
tive, interoceptive, perceptual, emotional, cognitive and action it is dealing with a single agent engaged with an intentional a
elements. DACtoc predicts that a similar quale parsing method- world. It is the self-constructed conscious unitary narrative 5
ology can be applied to conscious synthetic H5W capable agents. that, grounded in the physical existence of the agent over

As our models become more elaborate, our ability for quale time, defines its subjectivity and qualia, accumulated in its
parsing will also become increasingly more complete, allowing memory systems and assuring the coherence of the agent’s
us to unravel the full richness of conscious experience of an arte- operation. Thus, consciousness is the coherent experience that
fact. The limitation of the quale parsing method is that it will results from the large-scale integration of parallel processing = 2.
only be valid when full control over the temporal development of perception, affect, memory, cognition and action along ‘=
of the agent is given, together with full access to its control archi- the neuroaxis in a dedicated transient memory system that ©
tecture. This is not feasible with biological systems because we supports unification, virtualization, norm extraction and valua- — -s
will face a neuroscience version of Heisenberg’s principle, tion. It is a form of memory that reflects the autonomous = =
where we will in our attempt to measure qualia alter them. normative states of the agent to facilitate the optimization of =
A two-step process is required which first maps the biological its parallel real-time control loops that are driving action and -
agent to an artefact and subsequently opens up its experience self-regulation. This virtualization normative memory is 2
for third person interpretation. Hence, synthetic quale parsing engaged when the agent plans to act and especially when it S
will not work for arbitrary experiencing systems. However, evaluates the outcomes of actions in the past, present w
this is not the scope of the challenge. The problem was to over- and future relative to perceived or remembered internal and = =~
come the principled impossibility of accessing first person environmental norms. The core ingredients of consciousness ©
states. Synthetic quale parsing has answered this challenge, are thus autonomous virtualization memory, intentional simu- 3