overcome the interlinked obstacles of the, so-called, hard pro- nature endeavours to persist in its own being, or conates,
blem/explanatory gap and its associated panpsychism in towards future states [10]. The uniqueness of experience
order to assure that we actually have something relevant to results from this continuous goal-oriented and memory-
explain. After that I will provide a framework, which integrates dependent cycle of agent—environment interaction in the = 2
the main views on consciousness, providing a backdrop for brain, body, environment nexus [11]. The upshot of this is “2
DACtoc and its predictions and applications. At the centre of that as soon as an internal state of an agent becomes depen- ©
DACtoc stands a synthetic methodology: we will understand dent on memory, it will be perspectival, defining the  -
biological minds by building them. aboutness of the individual agent and resisting a third =
The physiologist Emil Du Bois-Reymond observed in 1872: person description whether it is ultimately experienced or S
‘What conceivable connection exists between definite move- not. Hence, the study of mind, and by extension conscious- -
ments of definite atoms in my brain on the one hand, and on ness, is pervaded with hard problems while the easy ones 2
the other hand, such primordial, indefinable, undeniable seem to be the exception, if there are any. Second, easy pro- S
facts as these: I feel pain or pleasure; I taste something sweet, blems are hard in their own way because biological systems w
or smell a rose, or hear an organ, or see something red, and do not follow bottom-up causality. We can take the well- = =
the certainty that immediately follows: Therefore, I am?’ known example of the 302-neuron brain of Caenorhabditis ele S
(cited in [5, pp 165-166]. Hippocrates had already proposed gans, fully described yet still not understood, or the role of 3
that mental states are the result of brain states but how can overt behaviour itself in structuring perceptual systems viabe-
we explain the experience of these mental states? Descartes havioural feedback [12]. Third, the HPEP dichotomy follows
answered the scholastics by imposing the efficient causes of from a reductionist methodology, which, as argued earlier,
the mechanical universe on the study of mind, realizing a is intrinsically dualistic. Despite its triumphs in explaining
reductionist mathematics and physics oriented explanatory fra- the physical world it has still not been very effective in explain-
mework for res extensa at the cost of creating mind—brain ing living systems (e.g. [13]). Let us consider the developing
dualism, i.e. in his thought experiment doubt is elevated to field of epigenetics that shows how macroscopic properties
be the essence of the experiencing mind or the irreducible res of phenotypes and environments in turn affect their micro-
cogitans. The, so-called, hard problem is an offspring of this scopic organization [14]. We can consider the control of