
The arrangement of reptile, bird and mammalian ears, all parative analysis [20]. An independent evolution of the
with ossicles suspended within an air-filled space was originally tympanic ear and therefore the tympanic membrane (ear
interpreted as the tympanic ear being ancestral, with stem drum) has been recently supported by developmental
amniotes predicted to have a very similar arrangement to that biology. If modern mammals, reptiles and birds evolved
observed in modern reptiles. This led to papers reflecting on from a common ancestor with a tympanic ear it would be
how a functional tympanic reptilian middle ear could have assumed that the external ear canal and tympanic membrane
been transformed into the mammalian middle ear [12,13]. It is would form in the same way in the different groups. In fact,
now widely accepted that the stem amniote did not have a tym- the external ear canal forms at different positions within the
panic middle ear and therefore tympanic middle ears evolved head in birds (chick) and mammals (mouse), with the
independently across the different amniote groups during the tympanic membrane being supported by the quadrate (an
Early Triassic [14,15]. This relatively recent interpretation upper jaw element) in birds and reptiles while being sup-
comes from the fact that in fossils of early stem amniotes a ported by the tympanic ring/ectotympanic (a lower jaw
robust large stapes, derived from the hyomandibular, is element) in mammals [18]. To explain the different positions
observed with no evidence for a role in airborne sound. Instead of the tympanic membrane in mammals and sauropsids,
the stapes appears to have played a role in stabilizing the skull Westoll [13] proposed that a ventral diverticulum of the
during biting. As skulls evolved, new connections developed, middle ear cavity (the recess mandibularis) grew ventrally
freeing the stapes from this structural role and leading to the to form a mammal-specific tympanic membrane. The mam-
linking of the stapes to the inner ear for a role in hearing. In malian membrane was therefore assumed to form from a
all amniotes, except the mammals, a single ossicle tympanic dorsal part, corresponding to the reptile membrane, and a
ear evolved, while in mammals a three ossicle ear formed ventral part that was a novel structure unique to mammals
instead, without the need for a transition from a single ossicle [13]. In reptiles, the tympanic ring which supports the ear
tympanic ear to a three ossicle ear. It has been proposed that drum is homologous to the angular, while the associated
the three ossicle middle ear may also have evolved more than gonial is homologous to the prearticular. During develop-
once, including independently in the lineages leading to the ment, this homology is reflected in the way these bones