and later in experiments using Drosophila, where he obser- v
ved that a heat shock during development revealed genetic None of these theories have been fully proved, and most ©
variation [48]. Canalization has since been defined as a mechan- probably the final answer will be that all three have contributed 3
ism during development that stabilizes or buffers a phenotype to some extent. The strongest genetic argument for the hypoth- = S
against genetic variation. It took over half a decade before heat esis that eye loss is adaptive comes from QTL experiments.
shock proteins, especially Hsp90, were identified as a major When the effective size of these QTL was analysed, it was
molecular mechanism underlying Waddington’s observations found that for each individual QTL, the cave allele resulted
of canalization [49]. Hsp90 keeps unstable signalling proteins in smaller eyes [54]. This is a strong argument of selection
poised for activation until they are stabilized by conformational based on the theory of H. Allen Orr [55], as if there were no
changes associated with signal transduction [50]. It also acts asa selection on a trait one would expect that, just by chance,
buffer against genetic changes that could otherwise have drastic some of the random changes would lead to larger eyes as
effects on the functionality of the protein (the canalization func- well (as was seen in the same study for pigmentation traits).
tion). Since the discovery of this dual role (in Drosophila), similar Together with the fact that all other known obligate cavefish
studies have been performed in other model organisms like in the world have reduced eyes [56,57], this makes a selection
yeast and Arabidopsis [51,52], but until recently none in a natu- scenario quite likely. However, it does not allow distinguishing
ral system such as the cavefish. Cavefish seemed to be a prime between direct and indirect selection. Evidence for indirect
candidate for understanding the role of Hsp90 in evolution. selection comes from several studies both genetically and func-
Based on the argument that if such a mechanism contributed tionally. Several studies found a clustering of QTL for eye size
to evolution, it would be particularly likely to occur in a setting and neuromast number [33,54], potentially hinting at a shared
where animals are suddenly confronted with an extreme genetic basis, although the resolution of these genetic studies
change in environment presumably causing substantial physio- remains too low to finally prove this [58]. Another study, how-
logical stress. Using a chemical inhibitor of Hsp90 and by ever, connects the regression of eyes and the enhancement of
mimicking an environmental condition of cave environments, taste buds and jaws in cavefish by altering expression of shh
surface fish, indeed, revealed cryptic genetic variation affecting [59]. Shh has wide-range effects on the development of various
eye size in development [53]. Importantly, the variation could organs and it has been identified as a strong candidate for eye