yeast and Arabidopsis [51,52], but until recently none in a natu- scenario quite likely. However, it does not allow distinguishing
ral system such as the cavefish. Cavefish seemed to be a prime between direct and indirect selection. Evidence for indirect
candidate for understanding the role of Hsp90 in evolution. selection comes from several studies both genetically and func-
Based on the argument that if such a mechanism contributed tionally. Several studies found a clustering of QTL for eye size
to evolution, it would be particularly likely to occur in a setting and neuromast number [33,54], potentially hinting at a shared
where animals are suddenly confronted with an extreme genetic basis, although the resolution of these genetic studies
change in environment presumably causing substantial physio- remains too low to finally prove this [58]. Another study, how-
logical stress. Using a chemical inhibitor of Hsp90 and by ever, connects the regression of eyes and the enhancement of
mimicking an environmental condition of cave environments, taste buds and jaws in cavefish by altering expression of shh
surface fish, indeed, revealed cryptic genetic variation affecting [59]. Shh has wide-range effects on the development of various
eye size in development [53]. Importantly, the variation could organs and it has been identified as a strong candidate for eye
be selected for in subsequent generations, providing the basis regression [23]. Its elevated expression in the oral—pharyngeal
for heritable evolution. Notably, the same experiments in natu- region in cavefish taste buds [23,60] and the fact that eye size
ral cavefish populations revealed indications of selection for and number of taste buds are correlated in hybrids [59]
Hsp90-controlled traits, providing the first study in which a makes Shh a promising candidate for functional studies. Con-
potential role of Hsp90 has been documented in morphological ditional overexpression of shh in surface fish, indeed, increased
evolution in nature [53]. the numbers of taste buds, while the eyes regressed in the same

fish [59]. Thus, the opposing effects of Shh are a prime example

of negative pleiotropy.
7. Why regress eyes: se lection ; pl eiotropy or Energy conservation is the major proposed driver of active
7 selection for eye regression. As neural tissue is one of the
drift? most energy-intensive tissues to form and maintain [61],
