and Shroom [19-22]. Further studies have shown that while sarily coupled to apical events, including the subsequent
Shroom is both necessary and sufficient for the apical distri- constriction. In Drosophila gastrulation, however, reduction of
bution of the actomyosin contractile network [19,20], other basal myosin intensity and in turn basal rigidity accompanies
molecules very often function in positioning distinct com- apical constriction and expands the basal surface, a phase that
ponents of the machinery to the correct place. For instance, very likely initiates the transition from cell columnization
Rho GTPase [17] and p120 catenin [13] are required to localize to cell shortening and invagination [5]. A recent paper by
myosin II apically in the cell. BMP, acting upstream of Rock in Lomakin ef al. [33] has suggested that actomyosin accumu-
chick otic placode (neuroepithelial) invagination, seems to be lation in one part of a cell during migration causes depletion
required for apical localization of actin independently of a in another. This could be a way in which basal relaxation
role in cell type specification [23]. could trigger or be necessary for subsequent apical constriction
Live imaging of invaginating tissues has provided an during invagination. Unpublished computer modelling of epi-
increasingly sophisticated picture of how apical constriction thelial folding in wing disc epithelium has suggested that basal
takes place. For example, it was long assumed that cells undergo relaxation in that context may in fact be mechanically more
apical constriction by a purse-string-like contraction of actin important than apical constriction (Guillaume Salbreux 2016,
fibres around the circumference of the apical surface. Live personal communication).

imaging in Drosophila gastrulation revealed that, instead of cir-
cumferential fibres, an apical meshwork of diametrical fibres
actually plays the predominant role in constricting the apical

area [15] (although there is currently no equivalent evidence 4, Apical cable-driven buckling

in vertebrates). The process of contraction is also less simple In a number of contexts, the contractility of multiple cells is
than once thought. Rather than smooth and synchronous con- coordinated via actomyosin ‘cables’ [34,35]. Actomyosin
traction, it has recently been demonstrated that individual cables are supracellular structures contained within individ-