able to survive desiccation, regularly occurring in their cycli- explain the evolution of UPI [85]. Heteroplasmy was indeed
cally drying freshwater habitats, bdelloid rotifers evolved shown to be genetically unstable and physiologically detri-
extraordinary resistance when confronted with ionizing mental in a mouse model [86]. Lastly, uniparental
radiation and concomitant ROS. This evolving capability (pre- inheritance might favour mitochondrial-nuclear coadaptation
venting extensive oxidative DNA damage) may have rendered [87], but see below.
meiotic sex repair mechanisms redundant [77]. These obser- There is no reason to think that sex did not evolve first in
vations regarding bdelloids are in good agreement with the the most simple form possible. The initial mode of sexual
hypotheses regarding the benefits and origin of sex described reproduction during early eukaryotic evolution probably
above. They also predict that certain eukaryotes (e.g. those has been unisexual (allowing all gametes to mate) with bi-
living in anoxic sediments or animal intestines, especially parental inheritance of mitochondria. Indeed this has been
when habitat variation would be either of a predictable kind proposed recently [88]. However, LECA might already have
or absent) might show a more pronounced tendency to had UPI, considering its universal distribution. I have alluded
become asexual. to the fact that autophagy, in conjunction with the cycles of

The interaction between diversifying environments mitochondrial fusion and fission, can be understood as a mech-
and the plasticity of meiotic sex systems has given rise to anism to specifically select ROS-damaged mitochondrial DNA
enormous diversity in (sexual aspects of) living systems for destruction (via so-called mitophagy) [49] and that these
(e.g. [33] and the rest of this special issue). Thus, the ‘evolva- mechanisms could be involved in the development of UPI.
bility’ of the meiotic sex system, as well as the interactions of If fusion and fission cycles were indeed early eukaryotic devel-
occasionally conflicting selection levels (genes, organelles, opments, then the high mutation rate of mitochondrial DNA
sexes), leads to a bewildering variety. Are there relative located next to the ROS-producing respiratory chain would
constants amidst all this diversity and do they fit with the give rise to problems whenever biparental mixing upon
model regarding the origin of meiotic sexual systems gamete fusion occurred. Combination of mutations in genes
presented here? encoding subunits of the mitochondrial molecular machines
