sely by the endosymbiont [3]. So we can envisage the ‘how’ for meiotic recombination [20,21].

the evolution of sex; what about the (combination of) ‘why’s’? ‘Other’ explanations include the famous ‘Red Queen’

hypothesis, which states that sexual recombination allows
organisms to keep up with each other in the arms race between
hosts and parasites, imagining organisms to be doomed with-
out it [22,23]. As mentioned, a lot of the confusion regarding

2. Sex: who needs a reason? the validity of this theory (or any theory, for that matter) in
It is almost a cliché to state that sex implies relatively high costs. explanations for the retention of costly meiotic sex comes
However, one should critically look at the assumptions implicit from the unfortunate tendency to single out one hypothesis,
in such a statement, as elegantly explained in Lehtonen et al. excluding others, while in fact different models might be
[13]. Of note, the first step from asexuality to meiotic isoga- more or less important depending on the example studied.
mous sex might not have represented a high cost at all [13], Quite a few studies support the arms race model. Using
allowing the ‘smooth’ development from repair mechanisms Caenorhabditis elegans as a host and the bacterium Serratia
described above. Still, meiosis, the key step, is capable of break- marcescens as parasite, the Red Queen hypothesis was tested.
ing up favourable gene combinations, and sexual reproduction Caenorhabditis elegans populations, propagating either sexually,
normally requires mating partners, which are not always easy by self-fertilization, or by using both strategies, were exposed
to find. Even in ancestral isogamous sex, the possible exploita- to the bacterium. Self-fertilizing populations were indeed
tion of the opposite mating type can translate into less efficient rapidly driven extinct by parasites while outcrossing sexual
conversion of environmental resources into offspring, and populations were not. Thus, in this case, coevolving pathogens
given two sexes (anisogamy), their divergent evolutionary selected for biparental sex [24]. Studies using freshwater snails
interests can reduce the efficiency of resource allocation even (Potamopyrgus antipodarum) had already demonstrated clonal
further [13-15]. The first cost, breaking up good combinations, populations to be much more sensitive to coevolving parasitic