In the periodic environments model, good and bad environ-
ments alternated with different period lengths. Facultative
sexuality was only better in those cases where period
length approached LCL (7 days in figure 3) or exceeded
LCL (more than 7 days in figure 3). In the latter case, obligate

4. Discussion asexuals could not produce enough offspring, meaning that
One of our aims was to make sure the results remain compar- the population went extinct, while facultative sexuals laid
able with an earlier model on the cost of sex in B. calyciflorus REs and could thus survive the adverse conditions. In retro-
[54], while significantly extending the versatility of the spect, this result may not seem too surprising. Nevertheless,
model. Although the methods (Euler-Lotka equation in our model stresses that LCL is an important proximate mech-
Stelzer [54] versus matrix models here) are superficially anism that determines whether asexuals can persist at all in
different, they are in fact mathematically equivalent in the an environment (and in principle, this conclusion holds for
simple, age-structured case [48]. In contrast to Stelzer [54], any fluctuating environment). We are not aware of many
our model incorporates more biological detail, such as empirical studies quantifying LCLs of organisms in the con-
sexual females, REs with variable durations of diapause, text of the maintenance of sex, and thus suggest that this
and recruitment into a growing population via RE hatching. could be a promising avenue in future studies, especially if
Many of our modelling results made intuitive sense and con- LCL is contrasted to the possible ‘life extension’ provided
firmed the expectations about which reproductive mode by a sexual diapause stage.
should be superior in which environment. We will summar- It is important to realize that the LCL is not a constant in
ize those aspects very briefly, and will then focus on the less nature. In our case, the value of 7 days imported into the
intuitive observations and model behaviour for each of the model was the result of the experimental conditions at
environments, and we will suggest future additions to our which our B. calyciflorus strain was cultured (ad libitum
modelling framework, which might aid to disentangle costs food, temperature 23.5°C). It is known that temperature can
of sex in other model organisms. strongly affect metabolic rates in ectothermic organisms and