
negative effect when expressed in pollen (or vice versa), conflict ary origin of gamete attraction and mate choice [125]. Such


signalling mechanisms may have been adapted to signal both in the vast majority of broadcast spawners, where sperm che- | 10 |

compatibility and mate quality in anisogamous species, as motaxis has been described extensively but evolutionary
we still see in extant external fertilizers and possibly also explanations for the phenomenon are rarely sought (but see a
internally fertilizing species. [48,146]). We suspect that sperm chemotaxis, and similar s
As we have highlighted in our review, female-derived chemically moderated processes that influence gamete behav-
reproductive ‘secretions’ are known to play a role in moderat- iour (see §§3 and 5), may serve as moderators of mate choice
ing both conspecific and intraspecific fertilization dynamics in at the gamete level, in both internally and externally fertilizing
a number of species. The fact that processes such as sperm che- species. We eagerly await further insights from plants, fungi
motaxis also occur in vertebrates with high mobility and and broadcast spawners, some of which are already uncover- 2
complex behavioural mechanisms of mate choice seems, on ing putative mechanisms of gamete choice moderated by ‘=
the face of it, somewhat paradoxical. Indeed, observations of female reproductive secretions [147]. In this way, we anticipate
sperm chemotaxis in internal fertilizers, including mammals that that such studies will stimulate research on ‘the usual = -5
[51], were initially discarded because it was thought that copu- organisms’ to better understand the adaptive function of | =
lation (leading to internal fertilization) would negate the need female reproductive secretion in these species. =
for sperm attractants (reviewed in [145]). Yet the unequivocal -
evidence for sperm chemotaxis in internal fertilizers [51,145] 2
raises an inevitable question: what biological functions are _ “
. . . . . Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests. is]
served by sperm guidance mechanisms in species with . ; . w
vaece . Le Lo Funding. Our work is supported by the Australian Research Council ~