unnoticed. Despite these pitfalls, there is an overall good the link between HERs and self-relatedness ratings down
agreement between the MEG and iEEG data, as discussed to the level of single trials, with significant correlations

further below, which suggests that MEG localization was between trial-by-trial HER amplitude and self-relatedness

rather accurate, and that epileptic patients performed the of thought

task in a similar manner as healthy participants. ; The detailed anatomical analysis of both iEEG and MEG
Another caveat when working on HERs is that cardiac source-localized results indicates that in vmPFC, the most

activity can generate two types of artefacts. The cardiac arte- active regions are areas 14 m and 32 [33], in the ventral part

fact corresponds to the contamination of neural data by the of the anterior cingulate cortex. iEEG recording sites located

electrical sign al. of the heart. We analysed time windows more laterally or more ventrally did not show any significant
that are devoid of this artefact [28] for both MEG and iEEG effect. Areas 14 m and 32 also contribute to sympathetic regu-

data, and further corrected MEG data using independent lation [34]. In the posteromedial cortex, HERs varying
component analysis. The cardiac artefact appeared well sup- with self-relatedness occurred in the vPre and vPCC [32],
pressed from iEEG data once bipolar derivations are that are not involved in autonomic regulation, as opposed
computed (see shaded areas in figures 3a, 4a and 5g). iEEG to the area lying just anterior to them, that is associated
data are also susceptible to the pulse-related artefact [36] with parasympathetic regulation. This result shows. that
that appears as a slow frequency sinewave or sawtooth pat- regions that are not associated with autonomic regulation
tern. Given the transient nature of the effects reported here can nevertheless receive and differentially respond to cardiac
m iEEG data, as well as the good agreement between MEG information, depending on self-relatedness.