specific sequence motifs; mutations in the zinc-finger array change the targeted motif, leading to rapid evolution of hotspot positions and an absence of hotspot
conservation over short evolutionary timescales (at the population and species level).

motifs are eroded by biased gene conversion (BGC) during biology are uncovering new meiotic features at a high rate.
DSB repair [191]. This leads to a ‘hotspot paradox’: how can One of the main take-home messages of this review is that
otspots and recombination be maintained in the long term many, if not most features of meiosis are still awaiting an
in the face of BGC [192]? A possible solution is that trans- evolutionary explanation. Nonetheless, the recent advances
acting factors like PRDM9 may mutate sufficiently fast to con- in all detailed aspects of meiosis now offer the chance to
stantly ‘chase’ new and frequent targets (hotspots), switching investigate these questions in a far more comprehensive
to new ones when these targets become rare due to BGC manner. This will require continued dialogue between cell,
193]. This ‘Red Queen’ model does not require strong stabiliz- molecular and evolutionary biologists (as advocated e.g. in
ing selection on the number of COs, and closely mimics the [195]), and perhaps also the realization that similarities
pattern of hotspot turnover observed in some cases [194]. How- between features may in fact have different evolutionary
ever, this model does not explain how the second kind of explanations (e.g. different kinds of hotspots).

otspots evolved in the first place, as when it arose proper seg- One of the most salient themes in most meiosis mysteries is
regation was presumably already ensured by the first kind of the impact of genetic conflicts and SGEs. As for the evolution of
otspots (which, as seen in mice, are still active). Also, it does genome size and structure, their impact is probably central
not explain why PRDM9 action is self-destructing: there is no [196], but in many cases they remain hypothetical and difficult
necessity to induce DSBs exactly at the position of the target to demonstrate and study directly: many SGEs reach fixation
sequence for a trans-acting factor. In fact, there is no logical quickly and leave almost no visible footprint. Showing that
necessity to rely on a target sequence to maintain one CO per some meiotic features evolved to control SGEs represents an
chromosome, as fixed chromosomal features could serve this even greater challenge. Indeed, if successful, such features
purpose. It is worth noting here that recruiting promoter would prevent these SGEs from spreading, further limiting
sequences for this purpose (as found for hotspots of the first their detection. In addition, demonstrating a role in SGEs control