capitalizing on natural variability in physiological rhythms the world into res cogitans and res extensa, also achieved a cer-
(e.g. heartbeat variability) to model ongoing interoceptive pre- tain notoriety for introducing the doctrine of the ‘beast
diction errors that might be reflected in electrophysiological machine’ (ca 1694). He argued that while humans had minds
signals (Klaas Enno Stephan 2016, personal communication; directing their behaviour, non-human animals (‘brutes’) were
see also [96]). Microneurography techniques—which allow nothing more than unthinking, unfeeling machines that
direct recording of peripheral nerve traffic [97]—might also pro- breathe, digest, perceive and move ‘like clockwork’. Now
vide an innovative means of isolating interoceptive prediction that we can see how human minds are deeply grounded in
and prediction error signals. embodied physiology, and that similar functional principles
Extending active inference to include autonomic reflexes may unite physiological regulation with perception of the
and interoceptive predictions raises many further interesting external world and the guidance of actions and behaviour,
questions [26]. For example, can the putative role of neuro- an inversion of Descartes’ doctrine seems plausible: that our
modulators (e.g. dopamine and oxytocin) in mediating the subjective experiences of selfhood may arise because of, and
precision of prediction errors help to explain the close relation- not in spite of, the fact that we too are ‘beast machines’.

ship between arousal and anxiety? What is the relationship

between exteroception and interoception during self-
observation and how does this depend upon the attenuation

Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.
Funding. A.K.S. is grateful to the Dr Mortimer and Theresa Sackler

of the precision of respective prediction errors [98]? Do von Foundation, which supports the Sackler Centre for Consciousness
Economo cells in infragranular cortical layers convey Science. K.J.F. is funded by the Wellcome Trust (ref: 088130/Z/09/Z).
References