soups 9

Figure 1. Parsimony phylogeny depicting the host range and geographical distribution of strawberry-associated species belonging to the Colletotrichum acutatum species
complex. Strains from Fragaria are indicated in red text and the branches and micromorphology photos of the different fungal species are colour coded. The alignment is
based on a subset of the six-locus alignment of Damm et al. [43], see TreeBASE (study number 12762). Anthracnose disease of strawberry is a particularly serious problem
for commercial fruit production [44], which resulted in C. acutatum being listed as a regulated plant quarantine pest by the European and Mediterranean Plant Protection
Organization (EPPO) and the EU Council Directive 2000/29 Annexes | and II, from which it was removed in 2009. Sources of inoculum include infected plants, weeds and
other hosts [45,46], while the pathogen is also well known to survive via latent infections on strawberries [47]. To further complicate matters, Damm et al. [43] recently
separated the morpho-species C. acutatum into 31 taxa, of which 21 were shown to represent novel species. Under these circumstances, it is difficult to imagine how
quarantine can be applied through attempts at visual inspection for symptoms or morphological identification of species.

phase in their life cycles. This easily leads to unwanted intro- well as ecosystem health. Unfortunately, these challenges
ductions, further complicated by the fact that these pathogens are exacerbated by inefficiencies in the systematic and phys-
frequently also have wide host ranges and thus spread ical identification of fungi, which is due to the reliance on
throughout local plant communities. The only way to over- outdated taxonomic information and systems, as well as
come this problem is through the application of molecular our inability to recognize the cryptic fungal infections.
based detection. DNA barcoding technologies and data shar- Given the enormity of the risks, it is unfortunate that there
ing abilities for such an approach already exist [54,55], but are is a general lack of global urgency to incorporate already
not used widely yet for quarantine purposes. For this goal to existing tools to deal with them. These tools would make it
be realized, much work is required to firstly provide a solid possible to implement a barcoding-based information and
taxonomic framework (as discussed above). And there identification system to screen plants and plant products
will be a need for human capacity development within that are traded internationally.

quarantine structures to utilize this information. One of the major issues that hamper progress towards an
