maximal inspiration when compared with all other conditions, a pilot sample and decided against using beat-to-beat blood ©
which may be explained with the observed higher heart rates pressure assessment in the main study as this technique =
during inspiration. On the other hand, there was no difference implies continuous somatosensory feedback, which may act =
between the most relevant condition ‘on-going expiration’ and as pre-pulses for the subsequent processing of startle stimuli. =
the other conditions. Interestingly, and in contrast to the Although the demographics of the pilot sample were almost -
shorter latency at peak inspiration, the frequency of startle pre- identical to those in the main study, conclusions on blood 2
sentations between the early and late cardiac cycle phase did pressure responses in the main study remain speculative. S
not differ between respiratory phases and breathing con- The reliability of the control analysis on cardiac and w
ditions. As opposed to earlier observations [8—10,12,13], our respiratory modulation of startle may be limited owing to =~
separate analysis on startle responses with ‘cardiac cycle the low number of valid startle responses in some cells. 8
phase’ as an additional factor indicated no effect of the cardiac Finally, the estimation of tidal volume was based on data s
cycle on startle responses, which may be due to the fact that the assessed using a respiratory belt and calibrated with standar- ©
number of valid startle responses in the early versus late car- dized air inhalation of 1,2 and 3 1. Despite the fact that (i) this
diac cycle varied between 1:9 and 9:1. Importantly, there procedure was repeatedly described as providing acceptable
was no interaction of cardiac cycle phase with respiratory results for volume estimation [68,69], and (ii) the data as
phase or breathing condition. This suggests that different provided by the breathing belt show a strong positive corre-
ratios of duration between the early and late cardiac cycle lation with tidal volume, it needs to be acknowledged that
phases across the four respiratory cycles did not systematically this technique may be less precise when compared with
affect startle responses. CMS is, therefore, unlikely to have con- spirometric measures.

tributed to the observed respiratory modulation of startle
effect, as there was a comparable number of startle stimuli in
the early versus late cardiac cycle phase and the observed
main effect in latencies to the preceding R-wave was only
