
as induced by short-term food deprivation [33] or physical neural network supporting interoceptive processes. However,
stress [69] increased IAc. Future studies should therefore use it remains to be further elucidated why cardiac and respira-
more participants with a greater distribution of [Ac to examine tory perception did not perfectly match and how long TMS
whether TMS effects interact with the absolute level of [Ac as effects on interoceptive signal processing remain detectable.
found for the interplay of different interoceptive levels in a Obviously, future studies should include a broader range of
former study [4]. We nevertheless argue that changes in intero- interoceptive tasks as well as a longer observation interval
ceptive processes on various levels, as well as modulation of the and should also consider potential differential effects of
HEP amplitude, are favouring the interpretation that also in a hemispheric laterality when investigating the function of inter-
sample with substantially lower IAc similar effects are to be oceptive target regions of the brain via stimulation techniques.
expected. Another limitation is that this study concentrated As interoceptive processes are altered in several psychopatho-
on right lateral effects of cTBS on structures of the interoceptive logic syndromes [6,12,21—23], brain stimulation techniques are -5
network. This can be explained by the fact that right anterior a promising tool for interventions. While cTBS is used to inhibit ==
insula has been identified as the most significant site that is certain brain regions, other TMS protocols could be applied to S
strongly related to IAc [5,19]. The right-hemisphere anterior improve the access to bodily sensations and empower concomi- -
insular cortex provides one cortical focus for the integration of tant therapeutic approaches as demonstrated for various 2
exteroceptive and interoceptive signals [17,70] and this region disorders, e.g. in the decrease of relapse rates in depression S
has been proposed as a neural substrate for self-awareness in [73]. More clinical research is needed to further elucidate w
the form of the ‘material me’ [71]. This may be most relevant future therapeutic avenues. =
for effects of interoceptive metacognition and interoceptive sen- 8
sibility, and their relation to effects of IAc, as there is ample Ethics Ethical approval by the local ethics board was obtained. 3
. . . . ‘ . Written informed consent was obtained. Ss
evidence for hemispheric laterality of emotion processing and a

Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this article have been