degree of certainty. This fact is borne out by a general lack of acid sequences from different mammal species is roughly pro-
correlation between the order of stratigraphic appearance and portional to their time of divergence [24,25]. If the time of
phylogenetic branching among fossil species, since sibling- divergence between any pair of species is known, such as
lineages should exhibit contemporaneous first fossil occur- based on the oldest fossil record from one of the pair of lineages,
rences [10,11] (figure 1a). Theoretical objections have been then the rate of molecular evolution can be inferred and used to
raised against the practice of identifying ancestors among date the timing of divergence between other species pairs. The
fossil taxa since species do not beget other species but, rather, molecular clock was widely employed to date species diver-
they emerge through differentiation among populations [12] gences in the 1990s when molecular sequence data first
and, thus, to identify an ancestral species is a category became available for diverse lineages. However, many of
error—it effectively identifies the species as paraphyletic, those early analyses produced extremely ancient divergence
only components among which can be considered as potential time estimates, such as a Mesoproterozoic origin of bilaterian
ancestors. And hypotheses of ancestry are also problematic animals [26], a Cryogenian origin of land plants [27], a deep Jur-
because they rely upon negative evidence, i.e. the fact that assic origin of flowering plants [28] and a deep Cretaceous
putative ancestors preserve only plesiomorphic characters origin of the ordinal level crown groups of birds and eutherian
and lack autapomorphies that might distinguish them as mammals [29]. These estimates challenged not only the veracity
distinct lineages [13,14]. of the fossil record as an archive of evolutionary history, but also
Thus, for many palaeontologists, stratigraphic time has macroevolutionary hypotheses that had been based on fossil
little role in phylogeny estimation, except in providing min- data, such as the end-Cretaceous mass extinction and its role
imum ages to calibrate morphology-based cladograms to in shaping modern biodiversity, which had effectively become
time, or in discriminating among multiple trees of equal likeli- philosophies in which those fossil data were interpreted.
hood or parsimony [14]. This is not to say that ancestors do not Given the general acceptance among palaeontologists of
exist in the fossil record [15-17] and failure to accommodate the incompleteness of the fossil record, it might be imagined

fossil species will result in the perception of gaps in the fossil that their discipline would embrace the molecular clock
