input available for such learning. Clerkin et al. [20] adopt Mareschal & French [24] address a related question that is ©
an ecologically motivated approach to the development of currently the subject of heated debate: Does the SL mechanism —-s
early word learning, asking what the visual environment target the transitional probabilities between elements in the =
looks like during the first year of an infant's life. Although input signal, or is it simply designed to group together =
the visual input is very cluttered with many objects in co-occurring elements into memory chunks? Using a variant -
view, the frequency distribution of particular object cat- of a connectionist autoencoder model, they show how gradual 2
egories follows a power-law distribution: a very small set of chunking of co-occurring elements within an input can poten- S
objects occur repeatedly. The authors note that this frequency tially explain effects associated with backward and forward w
pattern is quite different from the uniform distribution that is transitional probability learning, as well as preference for — 'Y
typically used in SL experiments (typically under the heading whole-words over part-words which occur with equal prob- = &
of ‘cross-situational learning’). Nonetheless, the right-skewed ability in the stream. They also show that such a model is s
distribution of objects in the child’s visual field may be cru- developmentally plausible by predicting the established
cial for word learning, as suggested by the fact that the improvement of SL with age. This work demonstrates the criti-
names for these visual object categories belong to the first cal role that explicit computational theories of SL can have in
words that are learned. This paper thus underscores the reconciling apparently discrepant findings and_ theoretical
importance of incorporating ecological constraints into both accounts, offering a more parsimonious explanation of a
experimental work and theoretical considerations about SL. range of effects without sacrificing descriptive adequacy.

Although often implicit in the discussion of SL results, it Using the domain of sentence processing as an anchor,
is clear that the outcome of SL is not simply a representation Altmann [25], in a sense, turns SL on its head. After describ-
of the statistics of the input. Rather, the cognitive system uses ing how repeated encounters with regularities in the input
sensitivity to distributional patterns to shape its expectations are the basis for generalization and abstraction in the form
and behavioural responses in an adaptive way, constrained of semantic knowledge, he reverse engineers this process.
by preexisting biases in that system. The study by Feher In so doing, Altmann offers a possible account of how seman-
et al. [21] provides an innovative test of this perspective in tic types acquired through SL underpin the ability to process