(marginally non-significant, p = 0.056, electronic supplemen- community body size of these communities increased with
tary material, table SA6). ITV was clearly the larger increasing built-up area at larger spatial scales (400 m and
contributor, explaining 95.78% of the total variation explained more). This pattern is opposite to the pattern found for the
by both ITV and SPT together. Including genotypic trait values total set of communities and for the communities dominated
at 20°C and 24°C in the analysis enabled us to disentangle three by small-bodied species. We can only speculate on why we
types of ITV along the urbanization gradient: GTV, non-genetic find an opposite pattern for communities dominated by
phenotypic trait variation due to increased temperatures large-bodied species. One possible explanation might be that
(ITVptast-r) and non-genetic phenotypic trait variation due urban ponds on the one hand tend to be rich in nutrients [26]
to increased temperatures (ITVorier; figure 4b). Only the while, on the other hand, by being relatively isolated they
latter component showed a significant contribution to the can be characterized by a reduced presence of zooplankti-
observed increase in average community body size (electronic vorous fish or increased relative importance of small,
supplementary material, table SA6, p= 0.047). ITVorner gape-limited invertebrate predators. These factors would
explained 92.89% of the total explained variation by all trait favour large-bodied zooplankton [51,52]. The fact that this pat-
components, while GTV and SPT contributed 4.55% and tern is only observed when urbanization is quantified at larger
2.56%, respectively. Regression analysis on the difference in spatial scales (400 m radius or more) reflects regional effects,
D. magna body size measurements on all individuals (i.e. and is in line with the predator hypothesis. Dispersal barriers
including juveniles) versus adults only plotted against degree can prevent specific predators being present; this would
of urbanization, suggests that the large impact of ITVorier result in urbanization effects acting at a larger scale indepen-

might be due to a change in relative abundance of juveniles dently of the presence of built-up area in the immediate


vicinity of the study habitats. Ponds in city parks or other urban populations show a clear pattern of reduced mean size at | 8 |

green infrastructure are indeed still relatively isolated from maturity compared with rural populations, their phenotypic