when 0 follows 1, which may signal a violated prediction. predictability of future stimuli over multiple scales. However, 2
The hippocampus has been linked to associative learning they rely on manipulations of a physical feature (e.g. pitch- S
in continuous series, showing greater activity for tokens changes over time). Consequently, their impact on brain w
highly predictive of a subsequent token [12,25,26]. However, activity may be due not to the coding of statistics of informa- — 'Y
frontoparietal systems have been implicated by studies that tional features, but also to the way these manipulations ©
explicitly manipulated cue diagnosticity, with greater activity impact lower-level sensory processing. For instance, series s
reported for more diagnostic cues [27,28]. that consist of smoother or more gradual pitch changes ©
The macro vs micro distinction has a parallel in the SL litera- [36,37] could produce stronger neural repetition suppression,
ture concerned with whether adults and children learn because auditory neurons tuned to a certain pitch bandwidth
macroscale distributional information or, alternatively, knowl- are engaged for longer durations. To conclude, neurobiological
edge of the bigrams or trigrams whose presence typically studies of uncertainty and SL develop from largely separate
differentiates a grammar from random transition network. theoretical backgrounds. Still, there are interfaces between
To illustrate, the fact that infants look longer at elements that the two domains, as computational/neurobiological models
make up random series could indicate they differentiate of uncertainty consider both macro- and microscale features
random from regular series owing to sensitivity to a ‘global’ that are of interest to neurobiological models of SL.

distributional feature, or alternatively, because the regular
series contain more frequent cases of particular sequences/

transitions. Interestingly, recent work suggests that the latter is (b) From learning to using
the case [29], and the use of neurophysiological measurements Traditionally, behavioural studies of SL have drawn inferences
may shed further light on this issue in the future. Thiessen about the outcome of learning from participants’ responses to
et al. [30] make a similar distinction between conditional tran- test trials presented after learning. This has led to sophisticated
sition probabilities and distributional statistics. Another models of the process [39]. However, more recently, the
approach that differentiates micro- and macro-description emphasis on the process of learning has been brought to the