mechanism postulated by Smith & Yu [19] to explain their prior moments in time. 3
results. This kind of indiscriminate association underpins When we directly perceive the onion, the account of how = ©
accounts of ‘relational memory’ and relational binding in episo- it becomes a ‘token’ (i.e. an episodic instance of a semantic = -s
dic memory ([18]; see e.g. [49] for review). As we shall now see, category) is the same: we associate it with other things in =
it also underpins tokenization, whether through direct sensory the concurrent context, and with these and other things =
experience, memory retrieval, or language comprehension. from prior, spatio-temporally contiguous, contexts. That is, -
The challenge of tokenization, as set out above, is to we ground it in space (defined through location relative to 2
understand how, on hearing ‘The woman chopped an other objects in the context) and time. These associations S
onion. Then, she fried it’, we can instantiate novel episodic are partly systematic (to the extent that there may be predic- w
representations corresponding to a woman and an onion in tive contingencies between e.g. onions and chopping boards = 'Y
its different states (intact, chopped, fried) even if we have which are consistent with past experience) and partly non- = &
never experienced this particular woman and this particular systematic (i.e. accidental co-occurrences between the s
onion first-hand. But, in fact, the same instantiations of elements of the concurrent and past contexts; e.g. the onion Ss
these entities and their corresponding states have to be cre- and the cat that had slouched out of the room). In addition,
ated if we directly experience a woman (whom we may or our episodic experience of the onion includes the systematic
may not know) chopping an onion and then frying it: the epi- associations between the onion’s perceptual features and
sodic experience of the woman, in this case, consists of our abstract knowledge of onions as a class of thing (i.e. the
perceptual features which are bound both to each other and semantic memory of what onions are). When we see the
to semantic features (semantic memory) via hippocampal— woman fry the onion after it has been chopped, spatio-tem-
cortical interactions (see e.g. [48] for review). The perceptual poral continuity across the different states of the onion
features are not just those of the woman, but of the spatial allows us to infer (to use the term informally) that what is
context, and other elements also in that context. In effect, being fried is episodically related to what had been chopped
discrete sets of perceptual features are associated with one (i.e. the episodic experience of the intact onion is bound
another despite the arbitrariness of their co-occurrence. So through spatio-temporal continuity to the episodic experi-
in terms of direct (i.e. real-world) experience, the woman ence of the chopped onion and, subsequently, to that of the