eye shapes that are optimized for both increased image sexual selection (male mate choice) because: (i) males that w
brightness and heightened visual acuity [20]. mate with highly spotted females obtain more immunocom- — 'Y
Our review on visual signalling in crepuscular and noc- petent offspring [31], (ii) males consistently choose to mate 5
turnal birds and mammals presents the current state of with such females in different breeding seasons and (iii) s
knowledge in this field. We show that visual signalling in their male offspring also prefer highly spotted females as ©
dim light is an emerging field and, to date, there is still mates [32]. Along the same line, eagle owls also show
little evidence concerning what these animals are exactly female-biased dichromatism in the brightness of their
communicating and under what circumstances they may badges [33]. The eagle ow] is a resident, territorial and appar-
rely on visual signals. As many questions remain unan- ently plumage monomorphic species characterized by
swered and, sometimes, even unasked, we also highlight relatively strong mate bonds and female contribution to
some possible cases of birds and mammals that, due to fea- territorial defence. Such characteristics suggest that higher
tures of their feather and fur coloration patterns, might use reflectance in females may be due to intersexual selection
visual communication in dim light. (male mate choice). In fact, in some monogamous species

with biparental care, males seem to select their mate in the
same manner as females, as the fitness of the former is also
affected by female quality [31,32,34]. As an additional or

2. Visual signalling in birds alternative explanation, sexual dichromatism in eagle owls
For many years, it was believed that crepuscular and nocturnal could have also emerged from female-female competition
bird species only use vocal communication. Yet, a growing for both a mate and a territory. In eagle owls, due to
body of literature has recently provided new insights into the subtle sexual size dimorphism, colour variability in the
how important visual signals also are for these species [21]. white badge may be used as a signal of female quality related
It is well known that: (i) birds use very specific light environ- to body size. In fact, a significant correlation was detected
ments for their displays where plumage characteristics are between female forearm size and brightness [33]. In this