reported that the display flight of the Latham’s snipe Thus, visual cues in nocturnal birds may be the outcome of an
Gallinago hardwickii usually has peak periods shortly before appropriate balance between these two selection forces, and
sunrise and shortly after sunset, as well as at midnight for this reason, these signals are generally hidden under cryptic
during full-moon periods. Indeed, the number of displays feathers and only visible during displays.
increases on full-moon nights. The increase of displays may It is at sunset and sunrise when little bustard males [36]

be related to the fact that males can easily locate females in perform wing-flash displays at their lekking sites. Such


displays have been suggested to play a role in the context of mutual preference for similar phenotypes [46] and/or by | 4 |

male—male competition and mate choice [16]. These assump- intrasexual competition for nest sites. This competition may
tions are respectively supported by two facts. First, the result in high-quality individuals gaining access to the best
probability that a male used a wing-flash display increased territories and pairing with high-quality mates. Following
with lek size. Second, the wing-flash display was most likely Kose & Moller [47], there are at least two potential costs
performed when a female visited the display site. Further, veg- associated with using white plumage for signalling. First,
etation height also affected the probability of wing-flash melanization strengthens feathers; non-melanized feathers
displays, and it is likely that in habitats that preclude the are more likely to break due to their greater structural weak-
propagation of visual cues (e.g. high vegetation) males will ness. Second, if feathers without melanin are particularly
not invest in such displays. Wing-flash displays have been susceptible to breakage, it is also possible that feather para-
observed in other bird species too, as in the case of the pen- sites may display a preference for the melanin-free parts of
nant-winged nightjar Semeiophorus vexillarius that shows the feathers. Although the costs associated with the brightness = -5
white markings on its wings while displaying at twilight of white feathers is a topic in need of further research, these =
[37]. Similarly, Allan [38] observed that male advertisements results suggest a definite relationship between bright, white =
in the Ludwig’s bustard Neotis ludwigii include spectacular plumage and an individual's physical state. This relationship -