
detect levels of downwelling light and bioluminescent Using equation (3.2), lanternfishes then possess a much El

flashes. To enhance sensitivity, lanternfishes possess several higher optical sensitivity to extended light sources than the
visual adaptations that optimize light collection and extend human eye (10-100 times higher, table 1). Compared to
their visual field. At the ocular level, these include: large some deep-sea fishes, such as the bathypelagic Platytroctes
eyes, aphakic gaps and reflective tapetum lucida. While apus, myctophids are more sensitive to extended light
enlarged eyes are not always the norm in myctophids and a sources, but less sensitive than other mesopelagic representa-
great diversity in sizes is observed within the family [30], tives (table 1). The reason for a lower sensitivity to
aphakic gaps and/or tapetum lucida are very common. At downwelling light in lanternfishes, compared to others
least one of these two adaptations was observed in 52 of 53 living in the same environment, might be explained by
species investigated by de Busserolles et al. [31]. At the retinal their greater reliance on bioluminescence signals, especially
level, increased sensitivity is achieved through several mech- for communication. In fact, while myctophids possess several
anisms including a pure rod retina, a very high rod density luminous organs used for communication and interactions = -s
(highest recorded for vertebrates [32]) and correspondingly with prey, predator and congeners, the other species investi- =
very thin photoreceptors (smallest diameter recorded for gated in table 1 do not possess any bioluminescent organs =
both vertebrates and invertebrates [32]), a high summation (the escolar Lepidocybium flavobrunneum) or only ventral and -
ratio of rod photoreceptors to ganglion cells (200-600: 1 for lateral photophores used exclusively for counter-illumination 2
Myctophum brachygnathum [32,33]), a lack of pigment granules and possibly species recognition (lantersharks: Etmopterus 5
in the retinal pigment epithelium of adults fish [31] and reti- spp. and Squaliodus sp.). Consequently, if one wants to com- w
nal pigments specifically tuned to the blue-green light pare the optical sensitivity (S) of several individuals from = 'Y
environment of the mesopelagic zone [34]. different environments, especially vertebrates from dim- ©
Sensitivity to extended light sources or point-like sources light habitats, one might want to do so at the level of the s
can be increased by a variety of adaptations, and different ganglion cell matrix (diameter of the ganglion cell’s dendritic — S
lanternfish species appear to be better specialized for the field) instead of the photoreceptor matrix (photoreceptor