review), lanternfish visual adaptations, compared to other deep-sea
(4) a high proportion of supposedly ‘AII amacrine cells’ is fishes, might have contributed to their success.
present in the ganglion cell layer, and may have evolved Several other visual adaptations that not are found in
to potentially facilitate the detection of small biolumines- myctophids exist in other deep-sea fishes. These include
cent flashes against the mesopelagic background [33], tubular eyes, yellow lenses, multibank retinas, foveas and
(5) relationships between visual characteristics and sexual sensitivity to red light. Each of these adaptations has been
dimorphism in luminous tissues also exist [32]: species reviewed in detail elsewhere [2,3,39,54], and so we will only
with a sexual dimorphism in luminous tissues possess give a brief account of each of them and focus on the
higher rod densities (an adaptation for higher sensitivity) comparison with the lanternfish system.
[32] and a species-specific sexually dimorphic intraocular Tubular eyes are usually cylindrical and positioned dor-
filter (yellow pigment [47]) enhancing contrast and sally to maximize pupil diameter and focal length in order
improving the detection of bioluminescent signals. to increase sensitivity and resolution in the dorsal field of
Indeed, the fact that species with sexually dimorphic view of the animal. In some cases, they have become special-

luminous tissues also possessed more sensitive eyes and ized to look into a narrow field, taking in the narrow angle


300 350 400 450 500 550 300 400 500 600 700 300 400 500 600 700
wavelength (nm) wavelength (nm) wavelength (nm)

Figure 3. Novel intraocular filter in lanternfishes. (a) Diversity in the yellow pigmentation distribution across the retina of six species of lanternfishes: Gonichthys
tenuiculus (i), Hygophum proximum (ii), 5. rufinus (iii), Symbolophorus evermanni (iv), Myctophum lychnobium (v) and Myctophum obtusirostre (vi). T, Temporal; V,
ventral. (b) Location and distribution of the yellow pigmentation in the retina of G. tenuiculus. PRL, Photoreceptor layer; ONL, outer nuclear layer; INL, inner nuclear
layer; GCL, ganglion cell layer. Scale bar, 50 jum, (c) Normalized corrected absorbance spectra of the yellow pigment in each of the six species presented in (a). (d)
Modelling of the quantal spectral sensitivity of the two visual pigments measured in M. obtusirostre, without the presence of the yellow pigmentation (i) and with