sensitive neurons at all light intensities down to moonlight visual channel visual signals are spatially summed from
levels (especially in the spatial domain). However, at lower around 109 ommatidia! By contrast, the model shows that
light intensities, the photoreceptors retain much greater spatial significant temporal summation (figure 7b) is present at all
and temporal resolution than the motion neurons, indicating light levels (7, >> At), but like spatial summation, suddenly
that the responses of motion neurons are being maintained increases at intensities lower than moonlight levels (with 7,
by significant extents of spatial and temporal summation. about eight times longer than At). A slow visual system not
This conclusion is reinforced by modelling motion vision in only has advantages for visual reliability in dim light, but
dim light using a standard Reichardt-type correlator model also for slow hovering flight, even at brighter light levels [88],
[42,86,87]. In this model, nearest-neighbour visual channels and for holding station in front of wind-tossed flowers at
are summed together more strongly than next nearest neigh- night [84,85].
bours, and so on—the exact summation profile is Gaussian, Thus in dim light the extents of spatial and temporal sum-
with a spatial half-width Ap, degrees (figure 7a). Temporal mation in Deilephila are both significant and work together to
summation is implemented by an exponential low-pass filter increase contrast sensitivity as light levels fall. In fact, for all
with a time constant 7, (milliseconds) (figure 7b). light intensities dimmer than dusk levels, contrast sensitivity

The extents of spatial and temporal summation (rep- is substantially higher with summation than without it, extend-
resented by Ap, and 7,), at any given light level, can now be ing vision to light intensities at least 100 times dimmer
directly compared with the spatial and temporal properties (figure 6d). In other words, despite sacrifices in both spatial
of the photoreceptors, represented by the size of the photo- and temporal resolution, summation dramatically enhances
receptor’s spatial receptive field (roughly Gaussian, with the reliability of the coarser and slower features of the visual

half-width Ap degrees) and the length of its visual integration world in dim light. There is thus no question that spatial and


temporal summation is a major strategy in nocturnal vision, allows nocturnal insects to see a brighter world, albeit a 11 |