
Figure 1. Stimulus and results for experiment 1. (a) The stimulus pattern used in the original experiment of Deutsch [6] describing the octave illusion, together
with the percept most commonly obtained. Boxes labelled ‘Lo’ indicate low-frequency tones, and boxes labelled ‘Hi’ indicate high-frequency tones. (b) Schematic
diagram illustrating a sample trial of paradigm 1 for experiment 1 where all the high-frequency tones in the right ear are amplitude modulated (indicated by the
dashed lines). (c) Schematic diagram illustrating paradigm 2 for experiment 1 where some of the high-frequency tones in left ear are reduced in amplitude, indicated
by the reduced height of the green (Hi) boxes. (d) Individual results from 15 participants in both paradigms. The orange circles indicate results from paradigm 1
(AM paradigm) whereas the dark blue circles indicate the results from paradigm 2 (Fade paradigm). The ordinate is scaled such that the upper half of the graph
(from 0 to +1) indicates when the responses corresponded more to ‘synchronous’ tones being heard and the lower half of the graph (from 0 to — 1) indicates
when the responses corresponded more to ‘alternating’ tones being heard.

illusory percept was present for all musical intervals tested that To explain the illusion, Deutsch [1] proposed a dual-
were larger than a perfect fourth (roughly a ratio of 4:3 ora mechanism model that consists of one mechanism for pitch
frequency difference of 33%). Despite the fact that it is not determination and another for sound localization. The outputs
dependent on the octave relationship, we continue to refer to of these mechanisms converge to elicit the illusory percept. The

the phenomenon as the ‘octave illusion’ for historical reasons. model is based on the assumption that the perceived pitch


corresponds to the frequency of the tone presented to the listen- temporal proximity [26]. The aim of this study was to provide El

ers’ ‘dominant’ ear (usually the right), whereas the perceived further empirical data on the octave illusion, in particular, to
location of the tone corresponds to the location of the higher- address the question of which tones within the stimulus are a
frequency tone [10], so that the final illusory percept is most salient in the illusory percept. The first experiment pro- s
a combination of the output of the two mechanisms, in a vided two behavioural tests of the illusion, and the second a
feature-combination operation [12]. Although some authors experiment combined behaviour and electroencephalography — 2: