motion transition point (ms) motion transition point (ms)

Figure 2. Glx and GABA concentrations in the V1 (a), MT (6) and PFC (c) are plotted as a function of the motion transition point. Pearson’s correlation coefficient r,
the 95% CI (confidence interval) and the p-values are shown in each graph. A regression line with 95% Cl is shown only in the graph with statistically significant
data (Glx in the PFC versus motion transition point, in (ci). (Online version in colour.)

execute cognitive functions is related to the interindividual left dorsolateral PFC even though it was not statistically signifi-
variability in the perception of visual motion. As described cant after Bonferroni's correction. We speculate from these
above, the neurons in the PFC (BA 46) exhibit motion sensi- results that a less inattentional status of the participants who
tivity [38,39] and function to allocate attention to a visual showed a high concentration of Glx in this study might
target in the object-centred coordinate [36,37], while a higher- strengthen the perception associated with motion assimilation,
order, attention-driven motion mechanism functioning on the which would eventually lengthen the motion transition point.
spatiotopic coordinate would be responsible for the induction Our further speculation is based on the fact that the BA 46
of motion assimilation [12,21,22]. Additionally, a relationship region of the PFC is located at the top of the anatomical hier-
between Glx concentrations and the function of attention has archy of the prefrontal areas [36,45]. As motion assimilation
been found in adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity dis- and contrast are perceived antagonistically (figure 1b), a
order (ADHD) [40] or autism spectrum disorders (ASD) [41]. final percept must be determined at a higher stage of visual
These suggest that lower Glx concentrations are associated motion processing. As the PFC would play a key role in
with more severe symptoms of inattention. Maltezos et al. the function required for decision making [35-37], it is poss-

[40] also showed that the Glx concentration is lower at the ible that the excitatory mechanism in the PFC is important for


determining the final percept of visual motion. If so, motion coordinate, we might have some clues regarding the function
