disentangle the effects of forest cover from that of human habitats, entomological studies should pay close attention
presence for multiple-vector species. to characterizing mosquito resting sites, as this is an often
cited (but under-studied) mechanism through which veg-
etation influences adult mosquito presence. As for humans,

5. Conclusion and recommendations for future assessing malaria prevalence is likely to require cross-
sectional surveys where all individuals are tested with very
study sensitive and specific diagnostic methods (e.g. polymerase
In this article, we have reviewed the literature on the relation- chain reaction (PCR)). This is critical as several locations
ship between deforestation and malaria in the Amazon region in the Amazon region have been shown to harbour a large
and have highlighted topics that contribute to the disparate fraction of infected but asymptomatic individuals that
findings reported in the literature. We believe that the diversity because of their low parasitemia are often only detectable
of topics covered in this article testifies to the fact that this using molecular methods such as PCR [19,83,84]. Longitudi-
apparently simple problem can only be tackled by highly inter- nal epidemiological studies employing active surveillance
disciplinary research teams involving medical entomologists, would be especially useful for elucidating the temporal
malaria epidemiologists, LULC/remote-sensing specialists dynamics underlying ecological change and malaria trans-
and anthropologists. mission. Finally, the monitoring of human behaviour (e.g.
We summarize our conceptualization of how the different movement patterns) will also be crucial in relating malaria
drivers of malaria risk are related to each other and to malaria risk to LULC and entomological findings, and new technol-
using a causal diagram (figure 5). Although this is admittedly ogies such as GPS loggers [85-87] are likely to be play an
an incomplete representation of reality, we hope that the important role in minimizing recall bias.
causal diagram is useful in highlighting the main malaria dri- Our diagram also emphasizes how the association
vers and their inter-relationships. Based on this diagram, we between forest status and malaria can be confounded with
provide several suggestions regarding how to move the field multiple factors such as water bodies, social-economic con-
forward. Studies that integrate entomological and epidemio- ditions and immunity. For instance, in the absence of