decrease infection of larval ticks in more southern states
(where host diversity was also higher), and latitudinal differ-
ences in questing behaviour have been shown to reduce
human-tick encounters in more southern states [48].


Local-scale studies and more mechanistic data help avoid Broad-scale patterns suggest that the number or burden

many of these confounding variables. This is illustrated by a of infectious diseases is higher in tropical than in temperate
recent study that collected both mechanistic and disease-risk regions, and decreases with wealth, but shows mixed
data on a directly transmitted fungal pathogen in Daphnia patterns with biodiversity [58-60]. However, the spatial
and showed that an apparent disease risk—diversity correlation scale of these studies (countries) is too large to determine
was in fact spurious, and stemmed from differences in habitat whether these correlations are causal. Further, most conserva-
structure [49]. If habitat structure, rather than host diversity, is tion interventions are likely to take place within countries, at
the causal variable influencing pathogen transmission, then much smaller scales, making these patterns of limited value
interventions that focus on habitat structure will be more effec- for guiding public health interventions.
tive than those that alter host diversity without changing the An important step in determining the impact of biodiversity
important aspects of habitat structure. conservation is to determine how an intervention might affect
It is important to note that data gaps in studies of the human behaviour and contact with wildlife or vectors. Vari-
dilution effect (table 1) do not mean a dilution effect is not ation in human behaviour determines the relationship
operating in these systems. The data gaps simply indicate between disease risk and incidence (figure 1) [61] and can some-
that causal inference is not warranted. If correlations are times overwhelm differences in disease risk. For example, while
spurious and interventions increase host diversity but not the density of infected ticks carrying the Lyme disease bacteria,
the actual causal factor, the intervention will fail to reduce Borrelia burgdorferi, is higher in forested areas than on grass or
disease risk. Similarly, there may be missed opportunities forest edges [45], human incidence often increases with edge