[4,78]. Similarly, in arctic shrublands decreased shoot growth prod uctivity a
of the dominant shrubs due to an extreme heatwave was As climate change progresses, climate extremes are likely s
observed to be linked to decreases in gross primary production to become an increasingly important determinant in the a
[79]. Gradual decreases in the performance of the dominant structure (richness, diversity or composition) of plantcommu- — 2
species in response to ‘press’ type climatic extremity may nities. Indeed, there is evidence that climate extremes can S
further impact community composition by gradually facilitat- impact the species diversity and composition of plant commu- =
ing increased abundance of initially subordinate species, as nities [8,9,70,90-93]. However, there is still little evidence that =
was observed in the response of a semiarid shortgrass steppe climate extremes often induce large changes to plant com- ‘2
to prolonged drought [80]. Thus, ecologically dominant munity composition [86], and thus large vegetation shifts ©
species and their responses to climate extremes have the poten- following climate extremes are currently the exception rather = -5
tial to influence the trajectories of community and ecosystem than the norm (but see [9]). Although functional resistance to =
responses in both forest and herbaceous plant communities, climate extremes is often low, rapid recovery and thus stability =
despite the fact that these systems operate on differential in ecosystem function is evident across systems ([4,82], but see -
temporal scales. [25]). The paucity in large compositional or functional changes 2

There is also emerging evidence that functionally distinct appears to be often driven, in part, by context-dependent com- S
species, such as nitrogen-fixing legumes, can modify neighbour- munity-level processes that act to stabilize plant community w
ing species responses and potentially influence community- structure and/or function in response to, or recovery from = 'Y
level processes despite their relatively low population sizes. climate extremes [4,14,94]. 8
For example, Khan ef al. [81] found the presence of legumes to The composition of interacting plant species withinacom- S
facilitate the performance of neighbouring species in the com- munity can greatly modify the response of both individual ©
munity under heavy precipitation, which in turn may have organisms and ecosystem productivity to a climate extreme
contributed to the stabilizing of above-ground productivity [49,95-98]. While it is clear that ecologically dominant species
observed in the experiment. Similarly, the presence or the can often drive trajectories of ecosystem response and recovery,
absence of legumes has been reported as a determinant in com- a large body of evidence supports biodiversity as an ecological