ing the footsteps of Hubel and Wiesel, critical period plasticity barrel cortex can be observed after more severe forms of depri-
has now been demonstrated in multiple species possessing vation such as two month unilateral whisker trimming from
either ocular dominance columns (e.g. primates, cats) or more birth or unilateral infraorbital nerve resection (abolishing all
‘salt-and-pepper’ organization of input selectivity (e.g. rodents) tactile input) [54,55].
[24,28-30]. Additional manipulations that decorrelated inputs Although a competition model is attractive in its simplicity

to the eyes using divergent strabismus further indicated that and ample evidence supports it, changes in cortical circuits in


response to sensory deprivation can be more complex than examination of plasticity at granular level is needed. For | 3 |

this straightforward view allows, and probably involves example, in Al, even tonotopically organized L4 neurons
consideration of changes in addition to excitatory synaptic have broad tuning curves and can in fact receive cross- a
strengthening or weakening. In some cases, competing inputs frequency inputs; in S1, calcium imaging has revealed that L2 s
still respond with elements of homeostasis. Following MD in neurons can display salt-and-pepper organization and tuning a
binocular V1, intrinsic imaging and spiking activity mea- to many whiskers [62,63]. Indeed, cell-type-specific analysis 3
surements show that after an initial, presumably Hebbian (or even subcellular compartment-level analysis, given appar- = S
depression of deprived-eye responses to stimuli (within 3 ent dendritic branch-specific tuning of inputs) of plasticity =
days of deprivation), a second, delayed increase in both responses may be the key towards understanding Hebbian =
deprived- and open-eye responses does occur after 5—6 days and homeostatic changes [64,65]. For example, in L5 of the 2
of deprivation [33,45]. In the somatosensory cortex, unlike somatosensory cortex, individual analysis of regular and ©
L2/3 pyramidal neurons, L5 pyramidal neurons respond to burst spiking pyramidal neurons, which project to distinct — -
single-row whisker trimming with homeostatic multiplicative targets, reveals that they each show distinct time courses of | =
synaptic scaling of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents depression and homeostatic recovery of spiking in response to =
[56]. While single-row trimming leads to the weakening of whisker deprivation [56]. -