names, lineages and social connections and cattle are socia- value their animals is also critical for a perspective on zoo- w
lized: calves are kept inside Maasai houses, cattle are noses that places disease risk in a broader context. How = 'Y
constantly monitored, touched and communicated with (in people think about and decide what to do about a sick 5&
animal—human speech, calls, whistles, songs). animal, for example, may not be influenced only by decisions = S

It is thus evident that a deeper engagement with about economic gain or about potential disease spread.  S
understandings of human-animal relations from different Insights regarding the relations with animals have to be con-
cross-cultural contexts requires us to rethink how people in sidered alongside an understanding of political economy and
different parts of the world consider their animals in general, people’s situations with respect to livelihood options and
but also more specifically in terms of the animals’ health, access to human and animal healthcare. Poor people in par-
welfare and diseases that can be harboured. Such an expan- ticular have to make difficult and pragmatic decisions
sion of the domain of the social could add considerable about livelihoods, and livestock are integral to these. For
nuance to interdisciplinary research. As Brown et al. [49] example, the fact that cattle hold great symbolic importance
argue, social relationships and, we would add, intimacies and are connected intimately to social life in east and
are felt to exist between animals and humans. These signifi- southern Africa, does not mean that cattle are not slaugh-
cantly affect how animals are valued and managed and tered, sold or substituted for cash. However, as failed
also the potential for zoonotic disease spread. Animals are attempts to promote cattle markets for economic develop-
not necessarily conceptualized as different from humans. ment have grudgingly come to realize, it does mean that
As such, health information messages to treat animals in par- pastoralists’ rationales for doing so, and the arguments
ticular ways can be open to misinterpretation, and may be made by outsiders promoting development initiatives, are
dismissed outright as impossible or inhumane. often very different [44,45].

Those leading interventions for control of zoonoses Risks, as conceptualized by zoonotic disease specialists,
should also not make quick assumptions about who has are not necessarily the same as risks conceptualized by live-
decision-making power with respect to livestock keeping. stock owners. Avoiding one risk (by treating diseased