Several relatively recent studies have found evidence that the its inputs such as a neuron does, but rather serves to fire in
formation of new synapses is important for long-term infor- response to activation at the synaptic input. The pre- and
mation storage in neuronal circuits [27-30]. Indeed, there is postsynaptic components of the NMJ are therefore tightly
strong evidence both in mammals and in the sea slug Aplysia co-regulated in synaptogenesis and after damage to ensure
that structural plasticity via formation of new afferent inputs proper activation of the muscle [85], so when postsynaptic
is essential for protein-synthesis-dependent long-term mem- NMJ sensitivity is reduced, it is in this context not entirely
ories [31]. The creation of new afferents would correspond to surprising that the presynaptic machinery compensates accord-
an increase in the number of release sites (box 1: methods), ingly by upscaling neurotransmitter release. This example
but it should be noted that the number of release sites might illustrates how the locus of expression must be understood in
be different from the number of anatomical contacts [58]. the context of function of the synapse type at hand.

With already existing connections between neurons, there Further indication that the exact expression locus is func-
are essentially two main ways of increasing synaptic strength: tionally important comes from the fact that the expression of
either presynaptic release is increased or postsynaptic recep- both short-term plasticity [86] and long-term plasticity [76]
tor channels are upregulated [49,59]. Both can be achieved can depend on pre- and postsynaptic cell type. In the case of
in a number of ways. The presynaptic release probability is short-term plasticity, connections from the same presynaptic
controlled by various factors, such as the number and sensi- neurons onto different cells can short-term depress or facilitate
tivity of presynaptic calcium channels, as well as other depending on the target cell type [87,88], whereas multiple con-
presynaptic ion channels that can modulate neurotransmitter nections between two neurons are often highly similar [45].
release (such as the epithelial sodium channel EnaC in case of Similarly, while STDP exists at both horizontal and vertical
synaptic scaling at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction excitatory inputs to visual cortex layer 2/3 pyramidal cells,
(NMJ) [60,61]), the setpoint of presynaptic calcium sensors the mechanistic underpinnings as well as the precise temporal
involved in eliciting neurotransmitter release, e.g. the synap- requirements for induction are different [89]. Such specificity
totagmins 1, 2 and 9 [62], and the size of the pool of readily suggests that the specific locus of expression of long-term plas-
releasable vesicles as well as its replenishment rate (in case of ticity at a given synapse type is meaningful for the proper