another look, resulting in a temporal pattern of eye positions of the retinotopic map, neurons in the intermediate layers

called ‘square wave jerks’ [19]. Finally, situations have been often show a complementary pattern of activity—elevated


firing rates during fixation and pauses during most saccades, locations, then the ability to maintain fixation might still persist | 4 |

similar but not identical to the pattern exhibited by omnipause as long as an equilibrium was still possible.
neurons [26,27]. These SC neurons also exhibit a neuronal cor- The results provided clear evidence against the ‘fixation a
relate of the ‘gap effect’, decreasing their activity after the zone’ idea and in favour of the ‘equilibrium hypothesis’. Con- s
fixation stimulus is turned off with a time course that matches trary to the ‘fixation zone’ idea, suppression of rostral SC a
the behavioural effects on latencies for both saccades [28-31] activity did not impair the ability to maintain fixation. In = 2.
and smooth pursuit [32]. These properties indicate a role in fact, the occurrence of small saccades around the fixation S
the control of steady fixation, and our understanding of how stimulus decreased, possibly because of the reduction in SC
they contribute has changed over the past decade or so. activity evoked by the fixation target. Moreover, the results = 2°
The original interpretation was that these SC neurons were provided affirmative evidence in favour of the ‘equilibrium ‘3
‘fixation cells’ engaged in a push-pull interaction with sac- hypothesis’. According to this view, local suppression of ‘©
cade-related neurons elsewhere in the SC. According to this the SC on one side should introduce a bias in the brain’s = -5
idea, mutual inhibition between neurons in the ‘fixation internal estimate of the target location, because neurons nor- =
zone’ and the rest of the SC implemented a winner-take-all mally used to code target location have been silenced on one =
mechanism for determining whether fixation was maintained side of the brain (figure 2). Consistent with this prediction, -
or a saccade was initiated. Experiments that manipulated suppression of rostral SC activity caused a systematic and 2
the activity of so-called ‘fixation cells’ provided causal evidence stable offset in eye position in the expected direction [43]. S
in favour of this idea. Specifically, electrical microstimula- Similar effects also occur during smooth pursuit [42]. w
tion of the rostral SC increases the latencies of saccades to Can these observations be reconciled with the evidence = 'Y