(N = 30) and rear half (N = 52) of the sardine schools. Data points are jit- Fish at the rear thus likely prioritized predator escape S
tered to reveal overlapping data points. Boxplots show median, interquartile above potential hydrodynamics benefits of rear positions, ©
ranges and whiskers show highest and lowest values (excluding outliers). and increased swimming effort to reach more frontal pos-
itions. The higher presence of injured fish at the rear of the
Most of the predator—prey models that simulated preda- group is likely to be the result of reduced locomotor perform-
tion events assumed instantaneous attacks of predators and ance, because uninjured fish had higher TBFs and gained (in
do not distinguish between predator approach and attack terms of body lengths) on injured fish.
[10-12]. We identified these as two separate stages in the Differences in locomotion speed/acceleration might,
attack sequence because an approach triggered countermea- however, only partly explain the spatial differences between
sures by the prey before an attack could be initiated (see injured and uninjured fish. Theoretical work suggests that a
below). In contrast with Bumann eft al.’s [11] model, sailfish set of local interaction rules can influence the spatial position
approached the school from the front and rear about equally of individuals within a group (e.g. to move to the centre, the
often. This discrepancy is probably due to the fact that sailfish front, or the periphery) in the absence of information on their
often surround their prey schools and approaches take place current position within the group as a whole [30-32]. For
in quick succession. A sailfish will approach the moment it example, differences in turning rates and inter-individual dis-
has free access to a nearby prey when no other sailfish is tances may play an important role in positioning behaviour
with the sardine school, resulting in approaches from any [30,33]. Little is known about how these factors are affected
direction. The second discrepancy with Bumann et al. was by injury. Injuries could also hinder the ability to coordinate
that most attacks and captures occurred in the rear half of movements with neighbours (for example, because of longer
the school. Upon a sailfish’s approach, the sardines usually response latencies regarding directional changes of school
turned away from the sailfish as an anti-predator response mates) which may not only affect an injured fish’s predation
and a period of chase followed. The smaller size of the sar- risk but also information transmission within schools.
dines (approx. 19cm) compared with the sailfish (mean + Indeed, social information is key for allowing group members
s.d. = 184.7 + 20.9 cm; range: 143.5—242.0 cm) gives sardines to respond to threats that have not been privately detected
considerably higher relative manoeuvrability [23,24], a factor [34-36]. A recent study [37] found that fish at the front and