identified by dynamic social network analysis [46]. In a dynamic network, a community is very similar to a module in a static network.

looks similar becomes markedly different. Grevy’s zebras leave those environments and encounter ecological conditions
show more sub-structuring and modularity than do onagers, for which they are less well suited? The case of onagers and
which show each individual as essentially being in a module Grevy’s zebras described in §4 suggests that behavioural flexi-
by itself. Although both Grevy’s zebras and onagers are con- bility allows species to tune social relationships to minimize
sidered fission—fusion species, Grevy’s individuals show harm when their abilities to meet physiological needs are chal-
more social viscosity than onagers who tend to be more indi- lenged by unpredictability. At the same time, two cases of
vidualistic, changing close associates routinely. Both live in anthropogenically induced sympatry—one in the Asian
arid lands, but in India government officials have eradicated equids and the other in African zebras—suggest the constraints
predators and have provided reliable and regularly spaced that physiology may place on behavioural flexibility.
watering points for livestock that the wild asses also use. In Wild Przewalski’s horses were extirpated from Asiatic
Kenya, no such water provisioning occurs. In fact, droughts rangelands in the 1960s, and have subsequently been reintro-
and the unpredictable temporal and spatial availability of duced in a number of ecologically distinct areas where
water remain high. When the network graphs are used to pre-extinction sightings occurred. Of these, the habitat type
simulate the spread and retention of information about the that appears to best support its reintroduced population is
location of critical resources, graphs with high modularity that of the cold, mesic Mongolian steppes [47]. However,
spread and prevent the loss of information best. Thus, net- other populations have been placed in the arid Kalamaili
work analyses reveal that even for two water-independent Nature Reserve, China, and the Great Gobi B Strictly Pro-
species, those that live in more unpredictable environments tected Area, Mongolia, where they are sympatric with
develop variants of fission—fusion social relationships and native khulan (wild ass) populations. These sites are proxi-
social structures that facilitate information-sharing, and mate to the locations where Przewalski’s horses were last
collective actions that increase survival prospects. sighted in the wild before extirpation, but it is generally
The interplay between less-flexible adaptive traits (such as accepted that those last desert populations were making the
water-independent physiology) and more malleable social best of marginal habitat at the edge of human disturbance