logenetic comparative analyses find no relationship between diet (in terms of energy and protein intake) as yearlings sur-
the degree of dietary frugivory and brain size when controlling vived longer, had longer reproductive careers and produced
for social group size across mammals [6,34,52]—though the more offspring (whether indexed as total number of births or
latter fact may be the crucial giveaway in that it may indicate the number that survived to 12 months). Although the
that a change of diet is needed when large groups are involved sample size is small (1 = 6 females), the results are remarkably
because of the effect that group size has on energetics [19]. linear and convincing. Large brains certainly provide the
More importantly, perhaps, for smart foraging to capacity to engage in efficient trial-and-error problem-solving
have any traction as an explanation, it is necessary to show or insightful one-trial learning [69].
that primates do something different from non-primates— A more important issue concerns the assumption that food is,
otherwise why would they need bigger brains than other or by extension energy budgets are, the primary factor influencing
mammals? For this reason, more recent studies have focused an animal's fitness, either because all other extrinsic effects are
on foraging innovations, including the discovery and exploi- trivial by comparison or because foraging is the only factor that
tation of novel foods [52] or novel means of accessing foods an animal can actually control through its behaviour. In fact, for
[34]. A number of analyses have shown that foraging inno- mammals generally, and primates in particular, predation is
vations correlate with brain size in both birds and primates also a major consideration [70-72] and has a much greater effect
[17,53-55], and this relationship has in turn been related to on species’ biogeographic distributions [19,73]—and this is
species’ abilities to survive in challenging habitats (birds widely so across mammals and birds generally.
[56-60], primates [61,62] and hominins [62-66]). The weak- Individually and collectively, instrumental hypotheses

ness of this claim is that most taxa do not in fact exhibit seem to fail as a general explanation because they do not


explain why primates should need bigger brains than anyone sufficient as an explanation for the evolution of group-living. | 4 |

else, why primate brains vary so much in size between species, Since group-living is intensely costly for animals, and especially