all non-human primate societies are essentially competitive; and focus on SBH sensu stricto, defined as originally specified
hence, the MIH (as originally proposed by Humphrey [79]) pro- in terms of the need to create functional, cohesive, bonded
vides a sufficient explanation for the evolution of large brains in social groups as a means of solving an ecological problem
nonhuman primates. By contrast, they claim, human societies [41]. SBH is an explicitly two-step process: an ecological pro-
are intrinsically cooperative and for this a new kind of intelli- blem is solved socially (i.e. as a cooperative process) and a big
gence (Vygotskian intelligence) was needed. Vygotsky [100] brain is needed to allow the requisite level of sociality to do
developed a theory of culture during the 1930s that emphasized this. The group created by big brains is not an end in itself
the social aspects of intelligence, in particular collaboration, (a mistake made by many attempts to compare between
communication and teaching. Moll & Tomasello [38] argued alternative hypotheses: e.g. [18,103]), but rather the means
that this form of intelligence is unique to humans and to an ecological end. It is important not to mistake this
marks a phase shift both in how social life is organized and view for group selection: it does not involve the differential
in the kinds of cognitive demands placed on the brain, survival or extinction of groups. Rather, it is a group-level
thereby explaining the fact that humans have brains that are or group-augmentation explanation (sensu [104]), such that
significantly larger than those of all other primates. individuals living in larger social units have higher fitness
Appealing as this suggestion is, it falls foul of three pro- than those living in smaller ones.

blems. First, Moll & Tomasello [38] misunderstand the nature It is worth rehearsing briefly the weight of evidence for the
of primate sociality. Contrary to what they assume, all (anthro- SBH, and how remarkably robust the relationship actually is.
poid) primate societies are in fact based on cooperation: In primates, social group size correlates with a wide range of
primate groups are cooperative solutions to the central pro- brain indices, including absolute and relative cranial volume
blems of survival, in particular predation risk. Second, as [105], brain volume [7,106], neocortex volume [5,10,42,107],
originally stated, VIH argues a special case for a single taxon: non-striate neocortex volume [108] and frontal lobe volume
special pleading should always be an explanation of last [109] (with and without phylogenetic correction in all these
resort. Third, as with so many other hypotheses, it fails to cases and with roughly similar goodness of fit), in several
explain why group size varies across primates, or why it corre- different datasets, in many cases while simultaneously con-