impact host—parasite interactions [162-164]. At community Light at night may also affect the pollination rate of plants pol-
level, coexistence of species may be influenced via: (i) devel- linated by nocturnal insects, not only because these pollinators
opmental time within the host becoming too short or too long may suffer increased mortality rates due to their attraction to
in relation to the host developmental time itself; (ii) timing of light [181], but also because these nocturnal insects alter their
host availability to the parasitoids shifting earlier or later in activity patterns over the 24h cycle, which leads to lower pol-
the season; as well as (iii) new competition arising due to lination rates [182]. Something similar may occur in
phenological changes in temporal niches that were previously mosquitoes (A. gambiae), for which light was found to suppress
well differentiated [165,166]. In aquatic ecosystems, studies flight, which will then affect the infection risks for their hosts
show increasing temperatures to influence life cycle dynamics [135].
via changes in temperature-induced parasite development A study of the effect of light pollution on a rocky desert
[167,168]. Faster development in heteroxenous parasite community, focusing on two spiny mouse congeners, the noc-

(ie. with more than one kind of host) has, in fact, been turnal A. cahirinus (common spiny mouse) and the diurnal
suggested to have implications for the number of life cycles A. russatus (golden spiny mouse), found that A. cahirinus
that could be completed per year, and consequently the decreased activity and foraging with artificial lighting, restrict-
number of hosts that are likely to be exposed to the parasite ing movement particularly in less-sheltered microhabitats,
[164]. Moreover, as global change is affecting migratory probably because of increased perceived predation risk.
routes and dynamics, it is likely that these changes will also Because illumination restricted both activity time and space,
influence host—pathogen interactions and relative transmission. intraspecific encounters of A. cahirinus over foraging patches
For example, the decrease in the number of migrating individ- increased during and following the illuminated hours. Light
uals in response to human-induced changes [169-172] has pollution had a negative influence by reducing overall activity

resulted in an increased infection risk [173]. and producing a relatively underexploited temporal niche,

