mental conditions. However, these studies also highlight winter than during the summer, a phenomenon previously Ss
that sleep seems to be an evolutionarily pliable trait on described in more modern settings [147,148]. The lengthening =
which natural and sexual selection can act quickly. There is of sleep during the winter in the Toba/Qom was due to a later
much to be learned about the evolution of sleep strategies sleep offset. Accordingly, a recent report showed that people
from field studies, by highlighting the selective forces on exposed to natural daylight while camping have a longer ‘bio-
sleep phenotypes and by measuring the strength of selection. logical night’ (length of nocturnal melatonin release) during
In addition, identifying trade-offs related to variation in sleep the winter than during the summer [149]. This lengthening of
duration may provide clues to the functions of sleep. the circadian night was also accounted for by a delayed mela-

tonin offset [149]. Finally, the interindividual timing of sleep
was more variable in the community with access to electricity.

7. An ecol 0g ical a pp roach to understandi ng This finding is consistent with the fact that sleep timing in indi-
viduals in the community under natural daylight was tightly

human sl eep linked to sunrise and sunset and suggests that natural daylight
Humans spend about a third of their life sleeping. As in other serves as a common Zeitgeber in this community, as it does in
animals, understanding the function(s) of sleep calls for its other animals (see the examples of blue and great tits in §6).
study in the natural environment. However, the extensive Interestingly, the earlier sleep onsets and longer sleep times
body of work on human sleep has primarily been conducted in the Toba/Qom community without electricity were evident,
in artificial laboratory environments. One of the challenges despite the fact that participants from this community included
(and opportunities) in studies of human sleep is that we quickly proportionately more adolescents than the community with
and dramatically change our ‘natural’ environment, thereby electricity. Adolescents in industrialized societies are known
removing ourselves from some of the selective pressures that to have a later ‘chronotype’, the preferred sleep time [150].
shaped our sleep, while exposing ourselves to new ones. To pro- This suggests that extremely late chronotypes only manifest