a single process, which is, for example, clear from the simul- the peripheral timing system.
taneous expression of both light and food driven timing of The complexity of the changes in this peripheral,
behavioural activity [8,9]. In laboratory conditions, photic multi-clock timing system that result from altering phase
and non-photic cues may be altered independently, whereas relationships between photic and non-photic cues, are nicely
in the field they are not always independent. For example, demonstrated by studies on humans and rodent models in
daily temperature cycles can be offered in anti-phase with the laboratory, in which photic and non-photic cues are mis-
the light-dark cycle in the laboratory, but in nature tempera- aligned in conditions such as shift work and sleep
ture is typically higher during the light phase due to the heat restriction. For instance, shift work in mice or humans leads
that radiates from the sun. Similarly, laboratory experiments to severe and complex disruption of timing of gene transcrip-
offering food exclusively during the rest phase have taught us tion, and the timing of gene expression may not simply shift in
a lot about the food entrainable oscillator (FEO), but under line with a single oscillator, but exposes genes in which rhyth-
natural conditions food intake will mostly happen in the micity is lost or altered in phase and amplitude, and new
active phase, and timing of food availability may in fact be rhythms even appear where transcription was non-rhythmic
one of the reasons why an organism is active at that time. before [10,11]. This leads to the view of the biological timing
These dependencies among Zeitgebers in nature are complex, system as a four-dimensional landscape of loosely delineated,
and our laboratory experiments do not necessarily take resonating tissue clocks and rhythms which combine to drive
these complex relationships into account, which reduces the timing of behaviour and physiology. Perturbations in this
translational value of our laboratory experiments. system may be associated with several adverse health con-
An added complication is that phase relationships ditions such as obesity, diabetes, cancer, problems with
between Zeitgebers can be variable in nature. For instance, cognitive performance and mood disorders in humans, but
predation risk for small rodents may be inflicted by both noc- almost nothing is known about the implications of this com-
turnal and diurnal predators, and depending on season, plex system on timing and survival of non-humans in nature.
vegetation cover or habitat, high nocturnal predation risk Here, we hypothesize that in natural conditions the per-
may be replaced by high diurnal predation risk. Such changes ipheral timing system is key to the flexible phenotype, and
may also lead to adaptations in prey species, leading to chan- that this flexibility cannot be attributed to the dominance of