
Moreover, T cells can be engineered to carry higher avidity

HERV-specific receptors and could be deployed in a thera- suppression, but the requirements for induction of a robust
peutic setting. Indeed, T cells carrying a chimeric antigen and protective anti-tumour response are still incompletely
receptor derived from a monoclonal antibody against understood. Recent evidence suggests that the intrinsically
HERV-K envelope glycoprotein showed significant anti- viral nature of HERVs may activate an innate antiviral state
tumour activity in human melanoma xenograft mouse that enhances tumour immunogenicity.
model [102]. When correlates of anti-tumour immunity were
Adaptive immunity to cancer-expressed HERV antigens is investigated in a comprehensive study of thousands of high-
not restricted to cellular responses. Although also occasionally dimensional cancer datasets [114], a potential link with
detected in seemingly healthy individuals, HERV-specific HERV activity was revealed. Indeed, by comparing tumour
antibodies are frequently elevated in cancer. In fact, it was samples with the respective healthy tissue, this study con-
the induction of HERV-K-reactive antibodies in the sera of firmed the largely tumour-restricted expression of numerous
patients with germ cell tumours that facilitated the initial HERVs [114]. Importantly, HERV transcriptional activation
discovery of HERV-K proteins and virions produced in tera- in multiple cancer types positively correlated with intra-
tocarcinoma cells lines [103]. The specificity of HERV-reactive tumoural immune cytolytic activity [114]. The mechanisms
antibodies that have been detected in cancer patients seems to underlying this association are not yet fully understood, but
be highly restricted to proteins expressed by members of the they may involve the synthesis of HERV-encoded epitopes
HERV-K group (table 3), but this might be a consequence of that trigger adaptive immunity, as well as activation of innate
greater availability of HERV-K reagents, relatively to those immune sensors by HERV replication intermediates [94].
‘or other HERV groups. In addition, being the most recent Support for a role of HERVs in enhancing tumour immu-
group to invade the human germline, a higher proportion nogenicity through activation of innate immunity is also
of HERV-K proviruses contain functional open reading provided by studies of the anti-cancer drug 5-azacitidine, a
rames than other groups. Indeed, six of a total of 19 DNA demethylating agent used primarily in the treatment