Yasui and colleagues [33] provide a review of the chromatin manner, as well as how they are influenced by ongoing s
changes involved in that process. As discussed in this review, DNA transactions.
emerging evidence indicates that there is a repair process that Similarly, the data regarding the role of upstream signalling
occurs in regions open for transcription interfacing transcrip- factors do not lend themselves well to a straightforward single
tional arrest and repair, akin to the distinction between model. This is almost certainly due to the fact that not all events
transcription coupled repair and global genome repair at UV will take place at every break. The location, timing, and com- 2
photoproducts. An emerging topic in the field of DNA repair plexity of the break are just a few of the factors that might “2
is the contribution of transcription and RNA to the repair pro- influence which events are carried out and in what order. s
cess [34-36]. In particular, DNA-RNA hybrids or R-loops can Another critical question is about how the pre-existing — -5
present a source of DNA damage but equally can profoundly chromatin environment influences pathway usage so that the = =
influence the repair process. Sebastian & Oberdoerffer [37] cell uses the optimal choice. The core process of DNA non- S
provide a timely review of the influence of RNA on genome homologous end-joining (c-NHE]) represents a compact pro- -
maintenance. Although less focused on chromatin, this cess, demanding little chromatin opening. There may, in fact, 2
review is significant in overviewing the evidence for how be a significant benefit from a highly compacted environment S
RNA or R-loops can drive transcription-associated DNA distal to a DSB undergoing c-NHE] to restrict the possibility of w
damage as well as potentially providing a template to optimize translocation events, which can potentially occur readily by = 'Y
DSB repair. Insight into this novel aspect of DSB formation and c-NHE] owing to the lack of requirement for sequence hom- ©
repair must be evaluated in future considerations of chromatin ology for rejoining. Homologous recombination (HR), in Ss
changes at damage sites, particularly given recent evidence contrast, necessitates extensive end-resection and histone  S
that RNA can be transcribed in an end-templated manner [38]. changes if branch migration also occurs and the extensive hom-

The very early studies on A-T provided seminal evidence ology requirements restrict the opportunity for translocation
for a role of ATM (although the causal genetic defect was formation. However, paradoxically, the extensive chromatin
uncharacterized at that time) in arresting replication in the changes necessitated by HR may be a significant factor restrict-
presence of DSBs [13]. We still have only a poor understanding ing its usage in higher organisms, where the precise epigenetic