

EBV-positive B-lymphoproliferative disease (B-LPD). The tumour cell phenotype and the presence of somatically | 2 |

condition is classically seen in two immunocompromised set- mutated Ig variable genes, emphasize the likely contribution
tings: (i) stem cell and solid organ transplant recipients that genetic aberrations occurring within the GC have made a
within the first year post-transplant when T cell function is to tumour development. By contrast, the classical EBV- s
most suppressed (i.e. ‘early onset’ post-transplant LPD), driven B-LPD lesions seen early post-transplant are not GC- a
and (ii) HIV-positive patients who, in the era before highly derived but arise from virus-induced growth transformation — 2:
active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART), lost almost all T cell of either naive or mature memory B cells [8]. Recent work S$
function as they progressed to late stage AIDS. These suggests that naive B cell-derived lesions are more commonly
B-LPD lesions are frequently oligoclonal in origin and can seen following stem cell transplant [9]. This may reflect the 2
present at multiple sites, often developing within the central fact that stem cell recipients often acquire or reacquire EBV ‘
nervous system in AIDS patients, leading to their designation in the peri-transplant period when the repopulating B cell ©
as ‘CNS lymphomas’. Cell growth appears to be directly pool is dominated by naive cells, whereas solid organ =
EBV-driven, making B-LPD an in vivo counterpart of the (mainly kidney) graft recipients are typically already long- = =
B lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) that arise when EBV term EBV carriers pre-transplant and disease may arise =
transforms B cells into permanent growth in vitro. Thus the from reactivation of existing memory cell infection. While -
cells have a lymphoblastoid phenotype and express all 8 the early onset post-transplant B-LPDs are always EBV-posi- 2
EBV latent proteins (the nuclear antigens EBNAs 1, 2, 3A, tive, the three major EBV-associated lymphomas, and most of S
3B, 3C and -LP and the latent membrane proteins LMPs 1 their subtypes, can occur in EBV-positive or negative form. w
and 2), a form of infection referred to as Latency III [6]. This is particularly important because it suggests that, for — 'Y
While B-LPD’s frequent oligoclonality and polymorphic each tumour, there are at least two routes to a common = &
appearance has deterred it being designated a true lym- end, only one of which involves EBV infection. Indeed, com- Ss
phoma, these lymphoproliferative lesions are resistant to parisons between EBV-positive and -negative tumours of the = =