during initiation, which is only possible once both hexamers from chromatinized templates and the general understanding
encircle single-stranded DNA. Finally, the new translocation of how FACT can disrupt the structural integrity of the
orientation of CMG potentially reveals new modes for chroma- nucleosome [66-68]. FACT associates with the replisome
tin disassembly and parental histone recycling. The threading progression complex, [69] and interacts with multiple com-
of the 3’ end of the DNA through the leading NTD positions ponents at the replication fork, including DNA polymerase
the recently characterized MCM2 histone-binding domain at a [70] and the MCM2 N-terminal tail, where it forms a salt
the very front of the CMG [61,62]. MCM2 chaperones H3:H4 resistant complex with histones [71]. In the light of the
tetramers both in vitro and in vivo by wrapping around the tet- recent findings regarding the orientation of translocating
ramer, much like nucleosomal DNA [61,62]. Therefore, the new CMG [57] these results would place FACT at the leading
model indicates that MCM2 could play a major role in disas- edge of the helicase where it would presumably collaborate
sembling parental nucleosomes in front of the replication with the MCM2 tail to mediate the unwinding of parental
fork (figure 3). The authors also speculate that the new position histones (figure 3). Such a scenario is supported by the dis-
of the lagging-strand machinery at the leading edge of the covery that histones captured from FACT-MCM2 complexes
CMG increases the likelihood that parental nucleosome depo- lacked acetylation of histone H3 at lysine 56 [71]; which is
sition would preferentially occur on the lagging strand, a modification found on newly synthesized histones [72].

opening up intriguing mechanisms for chromatin state inheri- Kurat et al. also showed that the ATP-dependent chromatin
tance and nucleosome assembly. However, with the exception remodelling complexes INO80 and ISW1a, and histone acetyl-
of the remarkable, yet poorly understood inheritance of histone transferases, SAGA and NuA4, were all required in order to
proteins in Drosophila male germline stem cells [63], there is achieve rates of replication comparable with those measured
little evidence of biased segregation of parental histones to in vivo [11]. Of these factors, Isw1 and INO80 have been impli-
the daughter genomes [64,65]. This may reflect the inherent cated in various aspects of DNA replication: in budding yeast,
asymmetry of the replication fork imparts little bias on histone Isw1 repositions nucleosomes on nascent DNA [73] and in
segregation; or, that mechanisms have evolved—perhaps human cells an ISW1-related complex (ACF1-ISWI) promotes
employing specific histone chaperones—to ensure the equal efficient replication of heterochromatin [74]. INO80 has also