Figure 2. CFR by (a) age in 5-year age bands, (b) quarter, (c) Treatment Centre type, for all countries combined and by country for confirmed cases, with 95% Cl.
Only strata with 10 or more confirmed cases are shown. Note that there were no Community Care Centres with 10 or more cases with reported clinical outcome. (a)
The solid black line shows the prediction from a logistic regression model with age fitted as a linear trend in children and adults separately with 95% Cl (grey area),
shown for all countries combined to keep the figure simple. Country-specific fits are shown in figure 6 in electronic supplementary material 3.

(CFR 92.8, 95% CI 91.0-94.3%) had a significantly higher TC-specific CFR estimates plotted against the number of
CFR than those hospitalized in any of the TC types (all p< reported confirmed cases for each district or TC. In the
0.001; figure 2c). absence of any significant differences, we would expect
The best-fitting multivariable regression model (selected larger variation around the overall mean (63.4% (95% CI
based on the minimal AIC value) included age, country, 62.3-64.4%) and 54.4% (95% CI 52.9-55.8%) for the district-
inferred date of symptom onset (as a categorical variable and TC-based analyses, respectively) for small than for large
for district-based analysis and as a linear trend for TC-based sample sizes as indicated by the funnel. The saw-tooth
analysis) and TC type (for model parameters see tables S4 appearance of the funnel stems from the fact that sample
and S5 in electronic supplementary material 3). The district- size is discrete, with the expected number of deaths increas-
based analysis included 8034 confirmed cases for which the ing at approximately every other step in sample size for a
district, the clinical outcome and the considered covariates grand mean CFR in the order of 50%, leading to small
were recorded, while the TC-based analysis only included a fairly regular fluctuations in the plotted quantiles as a func-
total of 4865 hospitalized cases with the required data tion of the sample size. There was considerable variation
recorded. This smaller underlying dataset resulted in lower beyond what would be expected by chance, both between
statistical power, and therefore the AIC favoured a slightly districts and between TCs, with 14 of 43 districts and 18
simpler model fitting the date of symptom onset as a of 66 TCs falling outside the 95% funnel (see also figure S8
linear trend rather than as a categorical variable (as in the in electronic supplementary material 3).
district-based analysis). We adjusted for case mix within each district or TC based
Based on these models, we predicted the expected CFR on the multivariable regression models to compare individ-
for each district or TC, respectively, and compared the predic- ual observed CFRs to what would be expected for the