sex ratios in the past and could still influence outcomes today We retain several individual characteristics from HILDA
(§2c). Third of all, we use an econometric method that relies as controls, such as age, gender, level of education, whether
only on the sex ratio among convicts in the 31 counties that the respondent was born in Australia, and marital status, as
housed convicts (§2c). well as population-level variables from the 2011 census at
Descriptive statistics on historical data are available in the postal area level (present-day population sex ratio and
table 1. Convicts were about 34% of the total population of urbanization) as well as data on mineral and land type
Australia at the time, but their proportion was much higher from Geoscience Australia.
in the adult population—male convicts made up more than In HILDA, the location of respondents is given by the pre-
80% of the adult male population of NSW in the mid nine- sent-day postal area. The unit of observation in the historical
teenth century. The population sex ratio was 2.04 male for census is a historical county. A historical county typically
every female. The sex ratio among convicts was much includes several present-day postal areas. In order to match
higher, above 16. Some of the discrepancy is explained by historical counties to present-day postal areas, we collected
the fact that we do not have a consistent breakdown of age and digitized 17 hard copies of maps from the National
for the total population across states, so that the population Library of Australia and from State Libraries in order to
includes people of all ages. No demographic study has construct these boundaries and match historical counties
found evidence of abnormal sex ratios at birth in Australia to present-day boundaries using ArcGIS geographical infor-
[26], either historically or contemporarily. Because the popu- mation software. For a list of maps used and more
lation sex ratio is always above 1 (table 1), and generally information on the matching process, see the online Appendix
above the natural sex ratio at birth, the influence of birth of our companion paper [17].

brings the sex ratio closer downwards. By contrast, convicts
only included people of marriageable age, between 15 and
50 years of age when transported ([27], p. 14). (c) Econometric methods
Figure 2 maps the sex ratio in the whole population (i) OLS
(panel (a)) as well as in the subpopulation where convicts