Second, our correlational analyses suggested that we are non-independent data points and this fact is often not
should be wary of relationships between aggregated variables, fully appreciated [75]. Such clustering is often not (fully)
as many variables might correlate with ASR without implying accounted for (e.g. [40,72,73,77]). We illustrated the impor-
any substantive, theoretically meaningful relationship. For tance of clustering by controlling for region (continent) in
example, the level of elevation correlates significantly with an analysis of the relation between sex ratio and teenage fer-
ASR at US state level. Around a quarter to a third of the vari- tility. While the analyses of country-level UN data suggest a
ables in our datasets had significant associations with ASR at statistically significant association between sex ratios (15-17)
national level. Importantly, also at the much smaller level of and teenage fertility, after controlling for region we no longer
US states we found around a third of our variables to be found any evidence for such a significant association. It is
associated with ASR. This means that problems with nation- important to indicate here that we are not claiming that
level analyses are not necessarily resolved by moving to a the dummy covariate approach used here is novel (e.g.
lower level of aggregation. Therefore, we suggest that any [71,119]), or that is the optimal way for dealing with spatial
finding of an association with ASR at an aggregate level clustering. In fact, many analytical options exist, such as,
should be treated with great caution. for example, multilevel modelling [120-122] or a phylo-
Third, we argue that a reason for why we find many sig- genetic approach [123-125]. What this dummy approach
nificant associations is probably due to the substantial demonstrates is that, if controlling for clustering, even in a
(spatial) clustering in aggregated data. Such clustering vio- very crude way by using a division into continents, substan-
lates the statistical assumption of non-independence of data tially reduces the effect we should be wary of the conclusions

points. Analytical units such as countries, states and counties we can draw. In our case, the effects were strongly reduced


Table 3. The effect of sex ratio (15-17) on teenage fertility in OLS regression models. Model 1 contains all available data, Model 2 controls for continent. | 8 |
Model 3, excludes extreme values in adult sex ratio (>3IQR rule) and Model 4 further controls for continent. Reference category for continent is Africa.
