structure had earlier been the subject of intense controversy distributed and abundant constituents of the nuclear matrix,
and is still not fully resolved despite extensive literature on which we envision interact in a complex, mutually depend-
the subject [50,51] ent meshwork with which XIST RNA is not just tethered, but
Against this background, a key and surprising early find- structurally embedded.
ing for us was that the bright nuclear XIST RNA territory The results from Kolpa et al. [45] demonstrate that strict
remains tightly defined and unperturbed in a nuclear matrix reliance on SAF-A for anchoring XIST RNA to Xi seems to
preparation after removal of chromosomal DNA (figure 2a) occur only in certain transformed cell lines and pluripotent
[52]. This seemed paradoxical for an RNA which at the same stem cells. While XIST localization in cancer cells and stem
time we argued had an unprecedented adherence to interphase cells is clearly important, the majority of normal differentiated
chromosome structure. This led us early on to propose a model cells appear to have redundant or complex mechanisms to
for complex structural interactions between XIST RNA, canon- faithfully anchor XIST to Xi. Interestingly, irregular nuclear
ical chromatin (DNA packaged with histones), and the shape and compromised nuclear scaffolding has been
putative nuclear matrix/scaffold. The evidence now that observed in transformed and cancer cells [53,54]. In fact,

XIST RNA interacts specifically with SAF-A and other proteins XIST is functionally compromised or mislocalized and the


Barr body is not observable in some cancers [55,56]. Therefore,
we suggest that immortalized cells may have a ‘weakened’
nuclear matrix and looser embedment of XIST RNA. Similarly,
pluripotent stem cells, which also require SAF-A for XIST
expression/localization, have less developed nuclear sub-
structure and express very low levels of the nuclear matrix
protein lamin A/C [57,58]. We speculate this also sensitizes
pluripotent cells to loss of SAF-A.