practical proposition. erally attributed to our limited understanding of how the

properties of protein assemblies emerge from their primary
structures, and more specifically to the complexity of the

5. Beyond angiosperms: photosynthesis can be regulation, biogenesis and functioning of the photosynthetic
i complexes.

done diffe rently and probably better Evolutionary breeding in crop plants seems unsuitable to
As outlined above, angiosperms harbour little genetic vari- provide us with enhanced photosynthetic machineries in a
ation relating to photosynthesis, but recent findings imply reasonable time frame. Spontaneously new allelic variants
that more stress-resilient modes of oxygenic photosynthesis arise with (for this endeavour far too) low overall efficiency
can be found elsewhere. In fact, the green alga Chlorella as implied by nucleotide substitution rates of angiosperm
ohadii, which occurs in desert sand crusts, has a D1 protein nuclear genomes ranging from 1.5 x 10°8 to 6.1 x 10°? per site
that is virtually insensitive to photodamage and can convert and year [97-99]. In addition, breeding populations necess-
amounts of light energy that exceed the maximum level of arily have to be small, since they compete with producer
solar radiation received on Earth into photosynthates [83]. populations. Random mutagenesis has been used to quickly
Therefore, C. ohadii provides an example for enhanced generate new genotypes in most cereal species, but its poten-
‘specific robustness’ of photosynthesis, because the beneficial tial is greatly limited by the nature of their genomes and
effects of this photosynthetic modification are most probably limits on screenable population sizes, so that the approach
limited to high light conditions but might be detrimental has not yielded superior photosynthesizers so far [100]. In
under other adverse environmental conditions. Reversibility of light of these practical restrictions on the rapid evolution of
photobleaching—a valuable adaptation to long-term exposure superior traits in crop plants with small (experimentally
to high light in crops—has been reported for chlorophytes accessible) populations and long generation times, we need
[84,85] and rhodophytes [86]. Moreover, in cyanobacteria, to turn to a fundamentally different kind of genetic platform.