Figure 2. (a,b) Imaging of the Xi preferred locations near the nuclear periphery (a) or the nucleolus (b). (a) Example of a nucleus from an XXX individual after
immunostaining for H3K27me3 shows two Barr bodies at different locations at the periphery of the nucleus. (b) Example of a nucleus stained with DAPI (blue) after
immunostaining for nucleophosmin (red) and RNA-FISH for Xist to mark the Xi (green). Note that Xist RNA surrounds the nucleolus. (c,d) Hypothetical models of
positioning of the Xi near the periphery which may be facilitated by the lamin B receptor (c) or near the nucleolus which may be facilitated by Dxz4 and Firre IncRNA
loci CTCF and cohesin (d). (Adapted from [96].)

effects of the lamina and nucleolus are only partially under- the LBR recruitment model seemingly fits well with the
stood in terms of specific molecular features that attract often-observed tendency of the Xi to be found towards
heterochromatin and of specific genomic regions attracted the periphery of the nucleus (figure 2a,c) [28,91,92]. However,
to these locations [82]. The nuclear periphery comprises the imaging using X painting probes has demonstrated that both
nuclear membrane consisting of lipid bilayers traversed by Xa and Xi are often located close to the nuclear periphery
the nuclear pores and the internal lamina, which contains [17]. Surprisingly, this same study also showed that the Xi
lamin fibres that interact with chromatin at the LADs located had, in fact, a distinctly more internal nuclear position than
throughout the genome [83-85]. The nucleolus interacts the Xa, which was interpreted as possibly due to the Xa’s
with the chromatin at the nucleolus-associated domains elongated structure resulting in a higher frequency of appar-
(NADs), and these interactions may be facilitated by proteins ent periphery touching [17]. An alternative explanation is that
located at its edge (such as nucleophosmin) and by internal the Xa, which is upregulated to balance expression of
proteins (such as fibrillarin) that interact with ribosomal X-linked and autosomal genes, may be preferentially located
RNA genes [82,86,87]. Paradoxically, chromatin inside the near nuclear pores, potentially to enhance RNA transport,
nucleolus is highly active, whereas heterochromatin that sur- similar to the situation in Drosophila [8,93]. An early study
rounds the nucleolus is repressed. Repositioning of genes argued that the whole Xi may form a loop that would attach
within the nucleus, for example to the nuclear lamina, can to the nuclear periphery via the telomeres tethered to the
alter their expression, demonstrating the importance of nuclear membrane close to each other [94], but such a structure
nuclear location in gene regulation [88]. As discussed has not been confirmed. Interestingly, in cells with three X
below, the roles of the lamina and the nucleolus in XCI chromosomes, the two Xis do not occupy the same exact