pH-sensitive biochemical processes occurring in the internal of As (figure 3b.1), the build-up of ApH that acidifies the lumen
spaces to proceed unhampered by large changes in proton (figure 3.2) and activates qg (figure 3b.3), which decreases the
concentrations. As shown in the simulation, the continuous fraction of reduced Qa (figure 3b.4). The combined effect of
presence of high Ay (figure 3a.1) leads to destabilization of these changes is a decrease in 'O» production when compared
the PSII charge pairs, while the lack of ApH (figure 3a.2) pre- to the case with no counter-ion fluxes (figures 3b.4 and b.5),
vents the formation of qgz (figure 32.3), resulting in but at the expense of linear electron flow (LEF) (figure 3b.5).
accumulation of reduced Qy (figure 34.4). The combination From the above, we can conclude that the basic properties
of these factors favours PSII back-reactions leading to of the thylakoids allow Ay to appear very rapidly upon illu-
PégpPheo~ recombination, producing large amounts of 'O, mination, whereas ApH is formed much more slowly, with a
(figures 32.4 and a.5). half time on the time-scale of several minutes [34], and that
As illustrated in figure 2b, adding an ion channel to the thy- these kinetics are likely to affect the onset of photoprotective
lakoid membrane allows counter-ions to move across the mechanisms. This kinetic mismatch can be exacerbated by the
membrane, down the Ay gradient. For example, the simulation fact that at sub-saturating light, PSI and PSII centres will have
in figure 3b.1-b.5 shows the movement of K* (figure 3b.3) in access to relatively large pools of electron acceptors and
response to Ay, from the lumen to the stroma, progressively donors, so that an abrupt increase in light may induce mul-
dissipating Ay (figure 3b.1), while depleting the lumen of K*. tiple turnovers, producing the large Aw spikes that result in
Anions, such as Cl’, will also dissipate Ay, but in this case, damaging back-reactions and recombination reactions.
they tend to accumulate in the lumen [62]. In either case, the Thylakoid properties also control the rate of ApH
resulting loss of Ay slows the efflux of protons through relaxation (and thus qg recovery) when light is decreased,
the ATP synthase, allowing additional protons to be trans- though the mechanism is more complex. As described in
ferred to the lumen. Over time, the accumulation of protons Cruz et al. [9,34], when the light is switched off, electron flow

overcomes the lumen buffering capacity, increasing ApH in the reaction centres is inhibited, but proton efflux through

