Despite the fact that concentrations of dissolved inorganic specific activity. This is achieved most probably by an
carbon (DIC) in seawater are usually high and relatively con- increased CO, concentration within the pyrenoid, a low
stant (approx. 2 mmol17'), the low diffusion coefficient for CO,-permeable organelle of diatom chloroplasts where
CO, in water has the potential to restrict the rate of photosyn- Rubisco is located [18]. The low permeability of the pyrenoid
thesis in diatoms [9]. CO, is the inorganic carbon form used to CO, is probably due to its proteic nature, since lipid mem-
by the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase branes are extremely permeable to small neutral molecules,
(Rubisco; EC 4.1.1.39), which only accounts for approxi- such as COz, in contrast with charged ions such as HCO;
mately 1% of total inorganic carbon, HCO, being the [18]. Hopkinson ef al. [18] found values of membrane per-
predominant form. Therefore, the usual CO, concentration meability to CO, ranging from 15x10? to 5.6 x
in seawater (at atmospheric equilibrium at 25°C) is around 10°? cms! in four diatom species, making clear that the plas-
10 uM. As the reported K1/2 (CO2) of diatoms’ Rubisco is malemma is not a significant barrier to CO. Therefore, a DIC
23-68 1M [10], photosynthesis of marine diatoms could, in transport system based on membrane CO, transporters would
principle, be limited by carbon supply [11]. In fact, in spite be extremely inefficient. By contrast, the values of membrane
of the shared lineage of their chloroplasts, diatoms’ Rubisco permeability to HCO; were several orders of magnitude
presents a much lower affinity for CO, than that from red lower, making its passive transport negligible. In any case,
algae, and even lower than the one from vascular plants. the free diffusion of CO, across the plasmalemma and the
Only cyanobacterial Rubisco shows an affinity for CO chloroplast envelope is unable to increase the CO concen-
lower than that of diatoms [12,13]. Nevertheless, the gen- tration at the carboxylation sites of Rubisco above the
eral belief of CO -insensitive photosynthesis in diatoms external environmental levels. A CCM transporting either
has prevailed due to the presence of highly efficient HCO; ora C4 compound is required [18]. These authors, how-
CO,-concentrating mechanisms (CCMs) [14-17]. These ever, estimated that only one-third of the carbon fixed by the
are so outstanding that it is plausible to attribute, in diatom P. tricornutum is actively transported, the remaining
large part, today’s atmospheric CO, concentration to the reaching the chloroplast by CO; diffusion. Owing to the effi-
efficiency of the CCMs of diatoms [18]. ciency of CCMs, diatoms allocate their scarce resources
