of resources to their CCMs. Therefore, an inverse relation ductivity of dense unialgal mats of the benthic diatom
between the amount of cellular Rubisco and its K,,, for CO Navicula salinarum. Addition of inorganic carbon was found
was found [10]. Rubisco is often considered an inefficient cat- to increase photosynthetic rates of MPB natural communities
alyst because, when compared with other photosynthetic dominated by diatoms in subtidal sand and in intertidal
enzymes, it exhibits a low maximal (i.e. CO,-saturated) CO, muddy sediments ([35,36]; table 1). Cook & Roy [35]
fixation rate and elevated Michaelis-Menten constant for showed that increasing the flux of water (and therefore of
CO, [10]. The complex catalytic mechanism of Rubisco the DIC) through the sediment increased the rate of photo-
imposes trade-offs between the CO,-saturated carboxylation synthesis (measured by the incorporation of ‘*CO,) from
rate, the affinity for CO and the relative specificity for CO2 6.4 to 8.6 mmol m *h!, showing that a limitation of photo-
[27,28]. Since CCMs grant full saturation of Rubisco catalytic synthesis by DIC availability is present. Whereas flushing did
sites, it is believed that the photosynthesis of pelagic diatoms not alter the depth-specific maximum rates of photosynthesis,
is not limited by DIC [29,30], although some studies suggest the integrated rates of photosynthesis were higher due to the
that such a possibility could occur [7]. In fact, Hopkinson widening of the photosynthetic zone. These results suggest
et al. [18] estimated that the CCMs, albeit significantly increas- that pore-water transport can enhance photosynthesis by
ing the CO; concentration in the chloroplasts above ambient counteracting DIC limitation in permeable sediments. After
levels, are not able to saturate the carboxylation sites of the addition of inorganic carbon, we observed increased
Rubisco. They projected that the average concentration of photosynthetic electron transport rates in two intact MPB
CO, in the chloroplast is 15-20 M, whereas the _half- communities of intertidal cohesive sediments (Alcochete
saturation constant of P. tricornutum’s Rubisco to CO, is and Trancao) differing in DIC availability (figure 2). Inor-
40 uM [11]. A higher CO, concentration may be achieved in ganic carbon was added in the form of NaHCO; solution
the pyrenoids, where most of the Rubisco is located [18]. to the sediment surface after biofilm establishment and
Since there seems to be little excess capacity of Rubisco in photosynthetic activity was assessed after 30 min using an
relation to photosynthesis, the enzyme must operate at full imaging pulse amplitude modulated (PAM) fluorometer.
saturation [18]. After being converted to CO2 by CA, roughly Vieira et al. [36], based on carbon isotope discrimination
two-thirds of the DIC transported to the chloroplast diffuses data of these two different MPB communities, suggested