become more complex, deploying multiple innovations biological innovation. Mutation and natural selection have =
simultaneously to reach higher levels of functionality. generated a suite of innovations in cellular cooperation -
Innovation occurs most readily when there is a popu- including division of labour, resource allocation and inhi- 2
lation of individuals who can produce and test novel bition of cellular reproduction that made multicellular life S
solutions to problems. This bears some similarities to the pro- possible (as reviewed in [2]). These complex forms of cellular w
cess of evolution by natural selection itself. If a population is cooperation gave rise to many opportunities for cellular 'Y
diverse (i.e. has diverse solutions), those different solutions cheating, which cells then evolved to take advantage of ©
have some effect on the individuals or society, and there is through new innovations for cheating. Both innovations in Ss
some mechanism for those innovations to be passed along cellular cooperation and innovations in cellular cheating =
to others with reasonable fidelity (e.g. genes or the written have shaped multicellularity in important ways, enabling
word). the evolution of large body size, long lifespan [4], the adaptive
Diversity allows a society to explore more potential immune system and even sexual ornamentation [21-24]. But
solutions. In fact, a lack of genetic diversity can be a challenge biological innovations have also introduced new challenges,
for organismal multicellularity. Most organismal multi- leaving multicellular bodies susceptible to cancer, infectious
cellularity is a result of development from a single-cell disease and autoimmune disorders. This vulnerability is
bottleneck, where high relatedness enables a highly coopera- inherent to our bodies because cells within us (including
tive organism to evolve. However, like a monoculture of both cancer cells and pathogens) can innovate as well, some-
crops, this high relatedness can be a major vulnerability times exploiting those very innovations that enabled us to
when on organism encounters a threat from a diverse and become multicellular.
rapidly evolving population [20], whether it be a diverse Complex multicellularity evolved as a result of many
population of Staphylococcus in the environment or a highly innovations for cellular cooperation being brought together
mutated population of cancer cells within the body. under one umbrella (internal pentagon in figure 1). These
The size of the population and the pace at which individ- include innovations for economic cooperation among cells:
uals reproduce also influence how rapidly cellular societies division of cellular labour, resource sharing/transportation
can innovate. Innovations are a subset of the changes that systems and the creation/maintenance of the extracellular