
Figure 3. Trait evolution of telomere rate of change (TROC) mapped to the phylogeny in 19 bird species. Colours indicate different levels of the trait value (trans-
formed values were used for mapping, but linear values are depicted for illustrative purposes in the legend). TROC shows a strong phylogenetic signal and the major
families or clades of species which were included in this analysis show similar rates of telomere loss with age.

(O. leucorhoa) is most likely due to the longest-lived individuals results is that if there is selective disappearance of individuals
starting with the longest telomeres and variation in telomere with short telomeres, this pattern may be partially concealed in
length decreasing with age owing to the selective disappear- populations of species where individuals are removed from the
ance of individuals with short telomeres [65]. It is also population due to random processes regardless of their con-
possible that selective disappearance is responsible for the posi- dition. This is not to say that selective disappearance based
tive relationship seen in the Eurasian oystercatcher (H. on telomere length is not occurring in short-lived species,
ostralegus). It is difficult to translate a cross-sectional pattern only that it may be more readily obscured. Conversely, if telo-
within species to within-individual processes for that species. mere erosion does in fact increase mortality risks, then one
Future longitudinal studies will allow us to distinguish between might expect that this would be more evident in long-lived
population differences that result from the removal of certain species with lower rates of extrinsic mortality where functional
phenotypes earlier in life than others. Atthe moment, longitudi- senescence is more easily observed. If extrinsic mortality differ-
nal studies of ageing in free-living populations are rare, but are ences are a major driver of selective disappearance based on
needed because of their greater power to identify age-related telomere length this may explain why the species displaying
changes compared to cross-sectional studies [31,66,67]. How- patterns that most closely resemble selective disappearance
ever, in a comparative context, cross-sectional studies can still are two of the longest-lived species we studied, the storm
broadly inform us about the biology of ageing and lifespan, petrel and oystercatcher.
though we lose the ability to firmly conclude that these patterns However, regardless of species differences in extrinsic mor-
are resulting from processes within individuals. tality, the degree to which telomere biology affects intrinsic
The degree to which selective disappearance differs among ageing processes may also differ across species, thereby affect-
species can be caused by differences in extrinsic mortality rates ing selective disappearance. In other words, some species