
males with the ability to adjust the TL of their offspring in of the pace of immune senescence with advancing age.


Indeed, experimental and longitudinal observational evidence that measured somatic TL are confounded by environmental

in vitro, in mice, and in humans suggests that longer TL pro- variables that shorten TLs and increase cancer risks via other
motes resistance to infection, and that these effects are pathways (e.g. smoking), or pleiotropic effects of TL-associated a
evident in young adulthood and possibly infancy [7,71-74]. genetic polymorphisms that increase cancer risk via germ line s
Longer TL are also likely to reduce the likelihood of athero- TL-independent pathways [84,88,89]. a
sclerosis by improving vascular maintenance and reducing Another factor that reduces the likelihood that cancer has — 2:
the build-up of senescent cells in atherosclerotic plaques been a key factor shaping within-species variation in TL in S
[75,76]. Additionally long TLs probably improve wound humans is the fact that in human cancer mortality is very =
healing, which also relies upon cellular proliferation [77]. rare until middle age and mostly occurs in the elderly [7]. =
Another biological function that depends upon cell prolifer- Additionally, human cancer is thought to have been much = “2
ation is gamete formation. As discussed above, in females the less prevalent before recent changes coincident with thedemo- ©
pool of oocytes is established in its entirety during fetal life, graphic transition and industrialization [7]. While humans — -s
and menopause occurs when the pool of follicles is depleted. engage in extensive intergenerational transfers of resources =
It has been hypothesized that TL could influence the pace of that allow us to continue to contribute to inclusive fitness late 5
female reproductive senescence, including late-life fecundity, in life, the force of selection still declines with age in -
by influencing the pool of initial oocytes formed, and their via- humans—such that late-life traits are less shaped by natural 2
bility as a woman ages [78,79]. There is evidence that TL selection than those earlier in life [7]. The presence of a PAC S
measured in blood cells is shorter in women who experience effect on TL in chimpanzees, among whom many of these fac- w
menopause at an earlier age—although this finding has not tors do not apply, suggests that the PAC effect on TL that is =
been replicated across all ethnic groups [78-80]. While links documented in human populations very probably predates 5