inducing cues such as all-trans retinoic acid and, unlike .
wild-type ESC, could resume proliferation after growth stimu- cell senescence in yeast
lation with the pluripotent cell growth factor LIF [99]. In accord A recent study in yeast also found a marked impact of loss of
with this apparent reversibility in differentiation status, Tert- telomere integrity on gene expression throughout the
deficient ESCs cells also exhibited hypomethylation at the genome. Using an S. cerevisiae strain lacking the telomerase
Nanog and Oct4/Pou5F1 promoters, and the expression of plur- RNA to induce senescence, Platt et al. [105] found that telo-
ipotency factors was elevated. In fact, the total cellular level of mere attrition resulted in the relocation of the telomere
DNA methylation was significantly decreased in ESCs with binding protein Rap1 away from telomeres to the promoters
short telomeres. This unstable differentiation phenotype was of hundreds of genes dispersed throughout the genome,
partially rescued after the elongation of short telomeres by including genes encoding the core histones. This relocation
Tert reintroduction or by enforced expression of Dnmt3b [99]. resulted generally in the activation of gene expression, but
These data establish a more wide-ranging impact of critically specifically led to repression in the case of histone genes, con-
short telomeres in genome-wide DNA methylation, and comitant with the onset of senescence. In fact, modulation of
suggest that the relationship between short telomeres, ageing, Rap1 or core histone levels directly impacted the pace of
cancer and the methylome might be more intricately linked senescence. The relocation of Rap1 depended on the activity
than originally supposed (figure 2). of the DNA damage checkpoint kinase, Mec1, which is acti-
Additional recent findings have underscored the link vated during senescence concomitant with critical telomere
between DNA hypomethylation and unstable differentiation, attrition [105]. Other components known to be involved in
because knockdown of de novo DNA methyltransferases, telomere end-protection, such as the SIR and Ku complexes,
resulting in genome-wide DNA hypomethylation, prevents are also diverted away from telomeres in response to DNA
consolidation of differentiation programmes and permits damage [106], however modulation of SIR activity did not
reversion to a pluripotent state [101,102]. These data further impact the Rapl-dependent alteration of core histone
support the hypothesis that impaired ability to maintain expression in response to imminent senescence [105].
stable differentiation in ESC with short telomeres acts via per- Rap! is an interesting protein with diverse cellular func-
turbation of de novo DNA methylation, which in turn tions. In yeast, it was first discovered based on its role as a