were more likely to survive to recapture at return migration to TL and lifetime reproductive fitness in any wild vertebrate
natal rivers in adults [59]. Studies from a wider range of mam- and this study was in a polygynous reptile [33]. Although our
malian and ectothermic vertebrate species relating TL to fitness analyses support the lack of a sex effect on the TL—mortality
will help understand when and why such positive associations risk association in birds, further investigation of sex differences
might occur, and it may prove that null or positive association is in systems exhibiting polygynous mating systems and sexual
the norm in small mammals and ectotherms, in which somatic dimorphism is required before drawing any conclusions about
telomerase expression may counteract any signal of cumulative the phylogenetic generality of this pattern. A previous meta-
stress or past life history on TL shortening. analysis found that the TL—-mortality risk association declines

We found that studies using qPCR methods detected a stron- with age within studies of healthy adult humans [9]. This
ger overall association between TL and mortality risk, and result was interpreted as support for TL representing a better
greater heterogeneity in this relationship compared to TRF marker of the failure of somatic redundancy mechanisms
studies. This method difference in the overall association is sur- rather than of biological ageing [9]. The fact that we found simi-
prising given that the qPCR method has been demonstrated to lar TL—-mortality risk associations in both studies of juvenile and
be less technically repeatable than TRF [60]. However, we note adults would support the idea that TL is not necessarily a bio-
that technical variation in telomere assays is likely to vary greatly marker of biological ageing. Furthermore, the lack of any
across laboratories and is rarely reported in a consistent enough association between TL-mortality risk association and species’
way to make accounting for it possible in meta-analysis. Asin the maximum recorded lifespan suggests the observed association
human literature, the qPCR methodology is progressively is not specific to particularly long- or short-lived bird species
becoming the dominant method in non-model vertebrate in our sample. Finally, the lack of any effect of follow-up
studies, presumably because it is higher throughput and less period between TL measurement and assessment of mortality
expensive [29,30]. One possible driver of the stronger overall or recapture in our selected studies implies that TL predicts mor-
effect in qPCR studies could be differential publication bias tality just as well over short periods (e.g. to the subsequent year
among studies using this method, which is suggested by the or breeding season) as it does over multiple years.
presence of three qPCR-based studies outside the lower left Our results provide support for the prediction that shorter