depends on the parameters of the model only through two diversity of PRDM9.


The simulations presented here are based on relatively This may be reasonable if the main role of recombination is to | 13 |

simple (exponential and power-law) fitness schemes. In prac- promote correct chromosome segregation. However, the fine-
tice, the fitness of individuals as a function of their PRDM9 scale distribution of recombination across the genome plays a
genotype might certainly be more complicated. In particular, an important role in shaping the distribution of LD. In particu- s
it may not necessarily be monotonic and instead show a lar, under low PRDM9 diversity, recombination is concentrated a
maximum for an intermediate CO rate. Further work might on few hot spots that are constantly reused at the level of the = 2-
be needed in this direction. Nevertheless, many of our results population, thus creating large haplotype blocks within S
appear to be relatively general. In particular, the scaling as a which LD tends to accumulate, potentially resulting in a genetic =
function of N, and the fact that diversity is determined by the load through background selection or interference between =
mutational input are essentially valid under arbitrary fitness concurrent selective sweeps. In this context, rare PRDM9 alleles “2
models, as long as the absolute fitness of a diploid can be could be favoured because they break up those large haplotype
expressed as a function of the activities (fraction of active blocks, thereby contributing to a more efficient dissipation of — -5
targets) of its two alleles. On the other hand, more complex LD. Unlike what we have considered in our model thus far, =
models could be imagined, for which the results presented this specific form of selection is inherently frequency-dependent =
here are not valid, in particular, if the fitness of an allele and therfore genuinely diversifying. As a result, it would -
directly depends on population-level quantities, such as the provide a mechanism for explaining high levels of PRDM9 2
amount of linkage disequilibrium (see below). polymorphism without having to invoke very high mutation S
Self-consistent mean-field approximations have already rates at this locus. In turn, allowing for a lower mutation rate w
been used in the context of other evolutionary problems u would then make it possible to accomodate more reasonable = 'Y
(e.g. in [33]). They could, in principle, be applied to many values for the strength of dBGC, g, while still predicting ©
other evolutionary Red Queen models, at least if the aim is to significant levels of depletion of recombination landscapes. s