1990s, two groups working on antigen-presenting cells of this observation suggested that small EVs originating from

the immune system [12,13] showed that exosomes also both MVE and plasma membrane or another subcellular a
carried surface molecules that could induce signalling in compartment were co-isolated in ‘exosome’ preparations. s
target cells, hence that they were not only ‘trash cans’, but As Rab27a inhibition leads to a partial inhibitory effect on a
also inter-cellular communication devices. This discovery in vivo growth of this tumour cell line, and no effect on = 2
renewed the interest of biomedical scientists in exosomes, another murine tumour cell line [21], we speculate that the Ss
and even though microvesicles and other shed membrane Rab27a-independent small EV population may display =
vesicles had been studied for their communication functions some functions in tumour growth that remain to be eluci- =
for more than three decades, the term ‘exosomes’ started dated. In other cells or experimental systems, different ‘
outnumbering the term ‘microvesicles’ in the scientific litera- intracellular machineries required for ‘exosome’ formation ©
ture in 2002. Since then this has become the most frequently and secretion have been described, such as other Rab -
used term in the EV field (see fig. 1 of [14]). This fact some- GTPases, or endosomal sorting complex required for trans- =
how conveys to non-specialists the impression that port (ESCRT)-dependent or -independent mechanisms of S
exosomes are more interesting or more biologically important biogenesis (reviewed in [22]). As different EV-associated pro- -
than other EVs. The point we want to make in this short teins are used in different studies to characterize the analysed 2
article is that our current knowledge on the respective func- EVs, it is likely that these different machineries are involved S
tions of exosomes and other EVs is too partial to either in formation of different subtypes of EVs [23]. Until last w
confirm or contradict such an assumption. Consequently, year, several proteins were equivalently used to qualify EVs =
despite the current massive effort of biotech and biopharma- as exosomes, based on their previous identification by pro- ©
ceutical companies to develop exosome-based clinical tools, teomic studies [24]. For the majority of these ‘exosome Ss
we cannot knowingly decide whether exosomes are the best markers’, no demonstration of the specificity for EVs of © ©
choice as therapeutic targets or diagnostic analytes. We MVE origin, when compared with EVs from any other sub-

think that the field must now evolve to systematically and cellular location, had been provided. The field, however,