lysed the activity of conditioned medium depleted of small mediated by miRNA. Studies analysing the specific nucleic
EVs, when compared with that of isolated EVs, and observed acid types or sequences present in different types of EVs
that some functional outcomes were present in the soluble are now starting to be published [30,49-52]. We hope that
portion of the conditioned medium. It would therefore be comprehensively comparing these results will also, in the
advisable to perform such comparisons and controls for near future, make it possible to understand the mechanisms
any functional analysis of EVs, to convincingly document and functional consequences of targeting different RNA
the actual physiological relevance of EV secretion. cargoes to different EV subtypes.

In conclusion of this short text, we would like to direct the
reader to important articles and initiatives of the EV field.
First, several specific technical difficulties and potential arte-

6. Conclusion facts must be taken into account when studying RNA-related
We hope that we have convinced the reader of the need to EVs’ functions, including the potential contamination by
compare the different possible EVs before concluding on serum-derived components when studying EVs from cul-
the specific involvement of one EV type, for instance, exo- tured cells [53]. We encourage any scientist interested in
somes, in a given function. Ways to obtain pure EV developing new EV-related projects to read a very compre-
subtypes, or at least to determine the relative proportion of hensive recent overview of all these aspects, written as a
different EVs in a given sample, are not yet fully determined, follow-up to a dedicated workshop organized in 2015 by
although progress has recently been made. With increasing the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles (ISEV)
numbers of comparative proteomic studies of EV subtypes, [54]. We also suggest that all authors of EV studies take
we may be able in the near future to propose protein markers advantage of the EV-TRACK website (http://evtrack.org),
defining the different types of EVs that will be valid to ana- developed by an international consortium of EV scientists,
lyse EVs from all possible cellular or biological fluids. In to determine whether their study provides sufficient infor-
the meantime, we propose that EVs isolated by 100 000g mation on the technical aspects of EV isolation and