know the ecological relevance of the results of these studies for overlapping chorus. Female lions were consistently less likely ‘2
animals in their natural habitat. Just because a sea lion or a to approach three simulated intruders than one intruder roaring
black bear can discriminate quantity when they are tested in and when they did approach three intruders they approached = -5
captivity, does not mean that these species use this ability in more cautiously, taking longer to reach the level of the loud- = =
the wild, nor does it tell us the extent to which wild animals speaker and pausing more frequently on the way to scan =
rely on quantity discrimination to successfully solve problems ahead and check on the positions of lagging companions. Over- -
in their natural habitat. External validity of captive research on all, the number of defending adult female lions, the number of 2
animal cognition is especially problematic because the variable intruders, the number of subadults and the presence of cubs all S
of interest, in this case quantity, is rarely the only variable of affected approach behaviour, with the probability of approach w
significance. In the wild, animals do encounter situations, increasing as the number of defending adult females and =
such as territorial disputes, where their ability to discriminate subadults increased, and decreasing as the number of intruders = &
quantity, in this case the number of intruders, could affect their increased. The best predictor of approach probability was in s
behaviour. However, the size, sex and health of the intruders fact the ratio of number of adult defenders to number of intru- &
(or the defender) are additional variables that could greatly ders, suggesting that this key information, presented in visual
influence how an individual would respond in that situation. and auditory modalities respectively, was integrated during
Other factors, such as the presence of dependent offspring or decision-making. Adult females were also more likely to
the proximity to a valuable resource, for example a den or car- approach the intruders when there were cubs present.
cass, can also significantly affect an animal’s response to Heinsohn [87] conducted a follow-up study where he com-
intruders, regardless of their ability to discriminate quantity. pared the territorial behaviour of lion prides in two locations
Thus, it is critical that we compliment the results of these where the density of lions differs dramatically. Lions in the
studies on captive animals with studies on wild animals in high-density location approached the calls of simulated intru-
their natural habitat. Only then can we fully understand ders faster than lions in the low-density location. Specifically,
which aspects of an animal’s environment have been critical lions in the high-density location either approached all simu-
drivers of the evolution of numerical abilities. lated intruders at the same speed, regardless of numeric odds,
