On the one hand, this chronic stress could be induced by Of interest, some of the signalling pathways implicated in
acidic and hypoxic tumour microenvironments, which inflict HSF1 regulation are frequently altered in human malignancy,
protein damage inside cancer cells. On the other hand, pro- such as the RAS/MAPK and LKB1/ AMPK signalling cascades.

teotoxic stress could arise from within the tumour cell in the
absence of environmental insults. A number of mechanisms
may account for this intrinsic stress within cancer cells, includ-

(a) Oncogenic RAS signalling directly activates HSF1

ing heightened global protein synthesis driven by mTORC1 t rough phosp orylation
hyper-activation, exacerbated proteomic imbalance due to RAS/MAPK signalling plays a prominent role in oncogenesis,
aneuploidy, destabilized protein conformations resulting highlighted by the fact that RAS mutations occur in up to 30%
from numerous genetic mutations and oxidative protein of all human cancers [53]. These mutations all lead to hyper-
damage caused by oxidative stress [8]. As a result, HSF1 activation of RAS/MAPK signalling, which, in turn, mobilizes
activation is widespread in human cancers [23,51]. numerous downstream effectors that control a plethora of cel-
Although it is well known that proteotoxic stressors, such lular processes to drive malignant transformation collectively
as heat shock, potently activate HSF1, our understanding of [54,55]. In addition to RAS mutations, frequent aberrations
the underlying molecular mechanisms remains incomplete. in upstream receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and loss of
For example, HSF1 hyper-phosphorylation is important to the tumour suppressor NF1 can also activate RAS/MAPK
its full transcriptional activation and a number of phosphory- signalling [20].
lating events have been defined to date (figure 1) [52]. The Does the oncogenic RAS/MAPK signalling pathway control
stimulatory events include Ser230, Ser419, Thr142, Ser320 HSF1 activation? It has been reported that ERK1/2, the widely
and Ser326 phosphorylation. By contrast, the inhibitory believed ultimate effector of this signalling cascade, phosphory-
events include Ser303, Ser307, Ser363 and Ser121 phosphoryl- lates HSF1 at Ser307, a constitutively repressive modification