
different chromatophores; E = epidermis, x = xanthophore, M = melanophore, | = iridiphore.

ramus keratin, often including carotenoids and melanin. This (a) Interactions between disordered nanostructures and
model could be used to produce comprehensive analyses of .

colour-producing integument, provided that the thickness pigments

and complex refractive indices of the component materials Pigments in natural materials are by necessity encased in
can be accurately determined. Thickness can be calculated some other structural material such as keratin, chitin and cel-
using electron microscope (EM) images (assuming that the lulose (figure 21). Because light interacts with these materials,
EM preparation steps do not alter these values, which can as well as the pigments themselves, even classic examples of
in some cases be checked using minimally prepared samples ‘pigment-based’ colours like yellow feathers may in fact have
on the scanning electron microscope (SEM)) and complex RI a structural component, such as an array of randomly sized
of keratin and pigment can be calculated using a number of and spaced sub-micron air holes in a keratin matrix
methods [35]. A variety of tools can then be used to model (figure 1e) [38,39]. A thicker array could incoherently scatter
colour production by colour-producing nanostructures. For more light, increasing brightness. Pigments selectively
example, although it has been criticized [36,37], the Fourier absorb certain wavelengths of light and create colour by
tool normalizes 2D Fourier power distributions to reflectance absorbing light from the substrate in which they are deposited
spectra given the number of light-scattering interfaces and [38]. Thus, the colours they produce depend not only on
the RI difference. For multilayer nanostructures, the matrix which wavelengths they absorb but also on brightness of the
method or finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) analysis encasing substrate. For example, a thicker incoherent array
directly outputs predicted reflectance spectra (reviewed may produce a brighter white colour than a duller one [39],
in [35]). In this way, the complex interactions between and, given the same amount of pigment, will therefore
multiple components of skin colour can be holistically produce a brighter yellow colour.