be kept free of oxidative damage and metabolic and biomecha- injury such as muscular dystrophy and sarcopenia.

nical stresses [56,57]. Following MuSC activation, dramatic
changes occur in cell morphology, metabolism and motility

which challenge proteostasis [58]. Chaperones such as HSPs 4, Therapeutic potential of heat shock proteins

play important roles in limiting cellular stresses, maintaining

proteostasis and stabilizing signalling complexes, but whether for muscular dyst 10 phy
HSPs are specifically involved in MuSC quiescence and The most widely studied HSP in skeletal muscle is HSP72.
activation is not well understood. HSP72 inhibits inflammatory mediators including p-JNK,
Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) together with TNF-a, and the NF«B pathway, and binds and preserves
advances in microarray technology and whole transcriptome SERCA function under conditions of cellular stress
sequencing have facilitated investigations of the molecular sig- [40,41,65,66]. While some studies have shown HSP72 to be
natures of pure populations of stem cells including MuSCs elevated in muscles of DMD patients [67], there is little con-
[59-62]. Analysis of extensive whole transcriptome datasets sensus since expression data for young patients are variable
of quiescent and proliferating MuSCs has revealed differential and sourcing age-matched controls is problematic. Never-
expression of various HSP encoding genes (table 2). In the data- theless, the endogenous heat shock response in DMD is
set by Ryall and colleagues [59] in MuSCs cultured ex vivo for insufficient to be protective [14].
48h, the expression of hspala was reduced 64-fold; dnajb1 To investigate whether elevating HSP72 could protect the
and hspb1 decreased nine- and sixfold, while hspa9, hspd1 dystrophic pathology, our laboratory bred dystrophin-null
and hspel increased fourfold, threefold and fourfold, respect- mdx dystrophic mice with transgenic (TG) mice over-expressing
ively. Similar changes in the HSP genes were identified in Hsp72 to produce mdx™° mice and max littermate controls.
two other studies using ex vivo MuSCs [60,62], although Serum levels of the muscle damage marker creatine kinase