danced for is therefore unlikely and scouts are most likely
unable to determine the number of other bees present at

5. Different bees, different needs

What if you do not care that much about where to live the same site. In addition, both dancing and non-dancing
because of limitless equally good options? This is the situ- bees produce a piping signal throughout the decision-
ation typically faced by the red dwarf bee, A. florea. Apis making process, suggesting that this signal is not linked to
florea is endemic to Southeast Asia, India and eastern regions a quorum at a chosen nest site in A. florea [40].
of the Middle East [15], and is now spreading as an invasive There is also no evidence that A. florea scouts judge the
species into the Middle East [36]. It builds a small nest com- quality of the sites they are dancing for. Makinson ef al. [40]
prised of a single comb [37] constructed around a twig of a found no evidence for ‘dance decay’ in A. florea: bees did
shrub or a tree [38]. Notwithstanding the fact that A. florea not reduce the number of dance circuits after leaving and
colonies prefer well-shaded nest sites away from predatory returning to a swarm as they do in A. mellifera where the qual-
ants, their natural environment is replete with suitable ity of the site is encoded in the total length of time a site is
twigs. Therefore, it seems that there is no strong need for advertised [21]. The absence of dance decay combined with
A. florea to go through an elaborate decision-making process the observation that most bees do not repeatedly leave the
like that seen in A. mellifera. swarm led Makinson et al. [40] to conclude that A. florea
In contrast to A. mellifera, where at the time of lift-off scouts do not differentiate between sites of low and high
dances approach or reach consensus about the chosen nest quality. Most likely, scouts indicate a direction in which
site [9,39], artificial swarms of A. florea show large variation they had previously encountered food sources (see below).
in directional information prior to lift-off; bees continue to It remains possible that individual bees adjust the number
dance for multiple sites [40,41]. This is also true for natural of dance circuits depending on the perceived quality of
swarms that depart from the mother colony. (Natural the site without reducing this number as time goes on. Ulti-
swarms of A. florea do not form an interim cluster [42].) mately, though, for the swarm to be able to select the best