Early simulation-based studies of collective movement
demonstrated that simple and intuitive local interactions and man agement
between homogeneous individuals produced complex and rea- While the contributions to this issue are predominantly focused
listic group-level patterns [56]. As empirical studies uncover the on fundamental research, the future of collective movement
actual interactions between groups’ members [10,44,47, 48,57], ecology is likely to be its application to conservation and the
the importance of individual heterogeneity is being revealed management of wild populations. In this section, we explore
[47,48,54]. In this issue, del Mar Delgado et al. [58] address the linkages between group-level dynamics, ecological-level
this question directly and provide evidence that not accounting processes, and management implications. We conclude by
for individual variability currently impedes understanding of discussing the potential adaptations and maladaptations of
how group decisions are made and that predictions of collective collective movement in a rapidly changing world.
movement that ignore individual variation are likely to fail.
Through the use of aerial filming, Torney et al. [48] demonstrate (a) Ecolog ical im pl ications
how interaction rules and individual variation may be quanti- The fact that collective movement is common across taxa,
fied, in this context examining the heterogeneous nature of environments and contexts suggests that it improves individual
social interaction of migrating caribou (Rangifer tarandus fitness through a suite of anti-predatory and information-
groenlandicus x pearyi). Taken together, many articles in this sharing benefits [12]. The social interaction rules that lead to
issue highlight the importance of individual heterogeneity for group behaviour [10,42,44,47,48,57], and the mechanisms
collective movement, suggesting that it is a current area of by which that group behaviour improves various metrics
interest for the field, and likely to be a focus moving forward. of performance, have both been relatively well studied
The main goal of this theme issue, and a unifying feature of [9,18,41,65,66]. By contrast, for the most part we are still
many papers herein, is the illumination of the ecological and missing an understanding of the influence of collective move-
evolutionary consequences of collective movement. To that ment, and more generally collective behaviour, on ecological

end, Torney et al. [51] explore the perennial problem of scale. processes and patterns. However, there are a handful of
