Numerosity-selective neurons.

One limitation of the regression analysis, however, is that two columns in figure 5b) strikingly similar to those observed
it can only detect monotonic response profiles. Many empiri- in the ventral intraparietal (VIP) area of the monkey brain
cal studies have shown that the neuronal code for number in (last column in figure 5b). The distribution of neurons
the primate cortex also relies on neurons selectively tuned to across the range of numerosities closely mirrored the empirical
specific numerosities (for review, see [12]). Numerosity- data [81], especially for the mature network.
selective neurons respond most strongly to one preferred Though summation coding and numerosity-selective
number, but they also respond to a lesser extent to adjacent coding might characterize distinct neuronal populations, as
numbers, thus exhibiting a bell-shaped, nonlinear response assumed in popular computational models (e.g. [41,42]),
function. These neurons have been observed in numerically one potential caveat is that the response profiles of numeros-
naive monkeys [81], suggesting that this more sophisticated ity-selective neurons at both extremes of the tested range are
form of encoding might spontaneously emerge early during in fact monotonic, and might thus be considered as a form of
development. This way of coding numerical information summation coding. Moreover, computer simulations have
also seems to have evolved independently in vertebrate shown that a pool of summation coding neurons can exhibit
brains with very different anatomies [82], thereby supporting numerosity-selectivity at the population level [83]; a more
the hypothesis of convergent evolution. We adopted the pro- precise characterization of individual tuning functions is the
cedure used by Viswanathan & Nieder [81] to assess whether focus of ongoing research [84]. The present findings suggest
numerosity-selective neurons can also be found in our model. that even basic visuospatial filtering combined with a
A two-factor analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to random projection is sufficient for exhibiting numerosity-
select neurons whose activation was modulated by numeros- selectivity. Nevertheless, number coding in the model was
ity information but not by cumulative area (see appendix A). significantly refined by visual experience, as suggested by
Individual tuning curves of the neurons with the same pre- the increasing response strength of numerosity-sensitive
ferred numerosity were then pooled to compute average neurons and by the reduced impact of continuous visual
response profiles. Interestingly, numerosity-selective neurons cues (as shown in section 3b). Unsupervised learning there-