hemisphere. calculation processes B
The present article does not intend to exhaustingly review One question that is poorly understood in traditional studies s
the new literature on the neuroscience of calculation. It rather is what are the missing mathematical functions attributed to =
aims at reporting and discussing some critical findings in the the right hemisphere, besides visuo-spatial ones. Even the ~
attempt to answer a number of fundamental questions about role of visuo-spatial functions needs to be further specified: — S
the lateralization of calculation processes in the brain. These does the calculation process just recruit generic visuo-spatial i
questions concern the specific roles played by each of the abilities with the contribution of the right hemisphere or does
two hemispheres with a particular focus on the specific role the contribution of the right hemisphere consist in supporting —
of the right hemisphere. abilities of spatial nature that are specific for calculation pro-
Lesion and inhibition (ie. TMS and DCE) studies, in fact, cesses? Studies directly addressing the role of the right  ‘“”
tell us that a unilateral lesion is sufficient to disrupt some hemisphere have been only a very recent enterprise. Ss
aspects of calculation. Surprisingly, for example, even The following review will focus on describing the main Ss
simple calculation involving arithmetical facts (i.e. like multi- findings obtained by employing three methods: clinical &
plication tables which are, in learned calculators, believed to studies, neuroimaging and reversible inhibition. These
be retrieved from long-term memory) may be disturbed by a methods were chosen because they have made significant
unilateral lesion of either the left or the right hemisphere. contributions to better understanding the neurological under-
Why is it that lesions to one of the two hemispheres produce pinnings of calculation and the lateralization of arithmetical
apparently similar errors? One possibility is that the two functions. Besides indications for localization, these studies
hemispheres do the same thing. If that were the case, how- seem to provide evidence about the nature of the represen-
ever, one should ask why is the spared hemisphere not tations and processes at play in relation to the specific way
sufficient to provide the solution? One answer that perhaps the right hemisphere may indeed support calculation. These
has been taken for granted and kept implicit, is that difficul- studies have the merit of making clear that even simple calcu-
ties with arithmetical facts are always the result, in the case of lation may require the right hemisphere and contributed to
lesions in the non-dominant hemisphere, of a generic defect partially answering some of the questions posed in the
to be expected after brain damage when the increment in pro- introduction.