2 — 1M 1M 1A 3
3 — mM iM 2A 8
4 2M 1M 1M iM 2M s

one of the operands. Such errors are interpretable as reflect- The idea that the right hemisphere solely contributes with
ing the search for a solution through retrieval, a mechanism spatial abilities is no longer tenable either, because it only
believed to pertain to left hemisphere functioning. By con- provides a partial idea of what the right hemisphere really
trast, when inhibition was on the left, a significant number does. Spatial abilities are indeed a very important aspect
of errors consisted of close approximation, reflecting approxi- within the competence of the right hemisphere and this is
mation mechanisms proper of the right hemisphere. true also in calculation. This review suggests that other arith-
Furthermore, right hemisphere inhibition led to a larger devi- metic functions which may not rely on spatial abilities are
ation from the correct solution, consistent with the idea that also carried out in the right hemisphere, however. Thus, the
approximation is a function more lateralized on the right. fact that a great proportion of errors in right hemisphere acal-
Errors in addition were also prevalently of the approximation culia are not clearly of spatial origin shows that the difference
type after left inhibition; for both hemispheres inhibition led between the two hemispheres in calculation cannot be cap-
to underestimation of the correct result, with a larger tured entirely with the traditional verbal/spatial dichotomy.
deviation from correct after right hemisphere inhibition. The right hemisphere may offer support to written calcu-

In summary, reversible inactivation proved critical in sup- lation via memorizing the spatial layouts necessary for such
porting data obtained with neuroimaging, by demonstrating complex tasks, but whether this type of function is exclu-
a causal role of the right hemisphere in single digit oper- sively a competence of the right hemisphere remains to be
ations. Importantly, the specificity of inhibition sites speaks demonstrated. Surely one interesting function, which may
against unspecific difficulty effects. The retrieval /approxi- intervene in calculation, concerns processing of zero in com-
mation dichotomy was specified and shown also for plex numbers: this function cannot be described as ‘spatial’,
multiplication. The involvement of VIPS was shown to however, without a theory that clearly specifies why that