In conclusion, clinical studies, whatever their limits, the activation increases when the task requires the proces- $s
show, besides ‘spatial acalculia’ as in tradition, other patterns sing of quantities. According to the first studies, this area ‘©
of acalculia that are hardly directly attributable or predicted seems to be activated in calculation [54,56,58]. It is more — 5
by generic spatial deficits. Neglect does not account for a active in approximate than in exact calculation [55], how- =
wide range of errors. This indicates that, if spatial functions ever, and more consistently in subtraction than in =
in calculation are surely sustained by the right hemisphere, multiplication [57-60]. In the right hemisphere, activation -
other arithmetical functions that are not clearly spatial in increases when computing two addition or subtraction 2
nature, as simple mental calculation, are involved as well. operations instead of one [61]. S
Specific, non-generic, spatial functions, like remembering (2) A left angular gyrus area, in connection with other left w
the spatial layout for written operations were however hemisphere areas, would support the retrieval of arithe =”
revealed by careful investigations. A role in processing zero metical facts. In particular, the left angular gyrus would = 5
within complex numbers has also be shown. The contrast support the verbal aspects of numerical processing. It is ©
between a retrieval and an approximation system has also thought to mediate the retrieval of facts stored in verbal =
been explored: the tentative proposal that it may reveal some- memory, but not other numerical tasks, like subtraction,
thing about the right hemisphere function is better supported number comparison or complex calculation, which are
by other methodologies than clinical observation. related to quantity processing.

(3) A bilateral posterior superior parietal system would sup-
port visuo-spatial processes, attention shifts and spatial

(b) Neuroimaging studies working memory related to numerical processing. These
Neuroimaging allows us with increasing precision to under- shifts are proposed to help in localizing the position of
stand the relationship between activity in certain brain areas a number on a mental space continuum during both cal-
and specific mental functions. It has the advantage, over most culation (i.e. while mental addition shifts attention to the
clinical studies, of allowing strictly controlled, repeatable right, mental subtraction shifts attention to the left [50])