14. Alaskan
6 15. Greenland
16. Hawikuh
oS 17. Chubut
Figure 1. (a) Global map showing geographical location of each cranial population. Stars represent the following waypoints used to calculate geographical distances
among groups: Cairo, Egypt (30.0, 31.0); Istanbul, Turkey (41.0, 28.0); Phnom Penh, Cambodia (11.0, 104.0); Anadyr, Russia (64.0, 177.0); Prince Rupert, Canada

(54.0, — 130.0) and Panama City, Panama (9.1, —79.4). (6) Tree topology representing a hierarchical model of historical divergence among populations based on
genetic information. ‘History’ distances simply reflect the number of nodes connecting pairs of populations and branch lengths are not shown to scale.

collated from a larger dataset compiled by Welsch et al. [1] of geographical distances provided by Welsch et al. [1] assume that
material culture variability across 31 Austronesian and Papuan interaction between communities was by water (via canoe) rather
communities, speaking languages from as many as seven different than overland. Therefore, the fact that some communities were
language families. We chose to focus solely on the communities island-based and some from the New Guinea mainland (table 2)
speaking Austronesian languages primarily because this allowed should not affect the results of our analyses as it assumed that all
us, in the absence of genetic data, to use linguistic information communication between groups was via ‘water distances’.
within a single language family to construct a hypothesis of histori- (ii) Distances representing historical divergence between
cal divergence. The other Papuan language families each contained groups were based on the linguistic similarity measures published
fewer community samples within families and, given the uncer- by Welsch et al. [1], as shown in figure 2b. The coding system used
tainty of how language families are related to one another [68], for language similarities also follows Welsch et al. [1], and the
constructing a higher-level phylogeny for all 31 communities was resultant linguistic similarity matrix used is shown in the electronic
not feasible. Moreover, the Austronesian communities differed supplementary material, table S2. Use of this particular linguistic
from the Papuan ones in being geographically widespread across taxonomy allowed for a more direct comparison to be made
the study area (figure 2) with communities in the far west and between the results obtained here and those of the original study
east end of the sampled region. There were three additional commu- by Welsch et al. [1]. To convert the language similarity matrix to