depends of the recombination of existing cultural traits [13]. fitness landscapes are hard to search because they have mul- S
These results seem to be at odds with theoretical models of cul- tiple peaks and so it is easy to get stuck at a local maximum. w
tural evolution that predict that increasing the degree of In fully connected populations, individuals are more likely to
connectedness, whether within or between populations, will observe, and imitate, the same set of successful models, =
positively affect a population’s ability to accumulate cultural which can cause the entire population to converge rapidly to
information. Increasing the degree of connectedness, the argu- a suboptimal peak. In less-connected populations, individuals ©
ment goes, gives individuals access to a larger number of social observe only a subset of cultural models and so do not benefit
models and promotes individuals’ opportunity to build upon from the same cultural information. This can lead to more
each other's solutions [1—3,9]. Most models of cultural evol- thorough exploration of the design space because it reduces
ution, however, focus on the transmission of cultural traits, populations’ probability of prematurely converging on
without considering the processes underlying the production suboptimal solutions [24,25,27].
of new traits. For instance, many models fail to capture the Models investigating search in rugged landscapes differ
fact that rates of innovations are determined, in part, by the from models of cumulative cultural evolution because they
level of cultural diversity that exists in a population. assume landscapes with a limited set of solutions and they

In many fields, population structure is considered as a focus on identifying the conditions that allow a population
strong driver of the amount of diversity that exists in a popu- to find the most rewarding solution. By contrast, models of
lation. Population geneticists, most notably Sewall Wright, cumulative culture aim to capture an open-ended process
have emphasized how populations subdivided into small and that generates increasingly complex solutions. The ultimate
partially isolated subgroups would explore a more diverse set goal of these models is to identify the conditions that promote
of solutions than populations with unconstrained gene flow the production and maintenance of complex cultural traits.
[23]. Similarly, organization scientists have shown that groups Nevertheless, the literature about search in rugged landscapes
that are well connected tend to lose cultural diversity faster can inform cultural evolution theory because the production of
than less-connected groups because individuals’ propensity complex cultural traits can benefit from thorough exploration
to learn from successful cultural models cause the entire of the cultural landscape.