ence the dynamic of cultural change (e.g. [92]). As they are inference frameworks can be applied to cultural frequency
not included in the generative model, their influences may data, potentially allowing us to close the gap between
be mistakenly attributed to social learning processes that theoretical modelling work and empirical work in cultural
are able to produce a similar effect at the population level. evolution.
But this potential pitfall is also itself amenable to testing In particular, we focused on the topic of inferring how
with the generative inference framework. Researchers can at human populations use social information based on the avail-
least evaluate the extent to which posterior distributions able empirical evidence. In many case studies of interest, the
change when assuming a population bottleneck between available data are in the form of frequencies of different var-
the beginning and the end of the phase. iants of a cultural trait in the population at one or several
The accuracy of ABC inference depends partly on how the points in time, which means that we face a classical inverse
difference between observed and simulated data is calculated problem. Naturally, attempting to address this problem
and on the achieved tolerance level. Calculating the differ- leads to the question of how much information about under-
ence based on summary statistics S instead of the full data lying processes of social learning can in fact be extracted from
D results in discarding likely useful information [93]. If a cultural frequency data of a given resolution. The framework
summary statistic (or set of) is not sufficient—as is generally outlined here allows us to address this equifinality problem.
the case in practice—the resulting posterior distribution will At the heart of this framework is a generative model, which
not be equal to that computed with the full data [94] captures the main cultural and demographic properties of
(see also [93] for a review of strategies dealing with this the system considered. As noted, there are no restrictions
issue). While the impact of using insufficient statistics on on the type of model used, with the one described in §2d(i)
inference results can be mitigated by careful application, we simply an example tailored specifically to the observed popu-
note that by using the actual frequencies for calculating the lation-level frequency data. Whatever their form, these
difference between observed and simulated data this problem models establish a causal link between model parameters
is circumvented entirely. Further, any posterior distribution controlling the strengths of underlying evolutionary pro-
with large tolerance levels does not approximate the ‘true’ cesses and observable population-level patterns; in our case,
posterior distribution and should be treated with caution. between parameters controlling the strengths of social learn-