
We have limited ability to speak to how mothers use ALB on reproductive behaviours. Given that our results suggest
strategically to allocate resources between reproduction and that ALB began declining prior to implementation of the fer-
other goals, or as a way to manage the quality versus quan- tility policy, artefacts arising from this censorship or selection
tity of her children. However, we do find that higher biases are likely to be small.
fertility is associated with a slower progression to last birth. Another challenge for analysis is that cross-sectional
Relatively early stopping may therefore be part of a fertility demographic data are limited in the degree to which they
reduction strategy. Similarly, women may be shifting their can characterize cultural transmission of reproductive beha-
reproductive careers in response to educational investments viours. While cultural evolution studies typically emphasize
that they make in themselves. Women with middle school equilibria resulting from dynamic models of social learning
or higher educational levels have the slowest progressions processes, we are limited to the use of crude proxies for trans-
to last births. This interpretation must remain fairly guarded mission dynamics such as geographic proximity to market
given that women with intermediate educational levels in fact towns and kinship norms (matri-/patri-lineality). Without
show the fastest progression to last births, meaning that any being able to link transmission mechanisms directly with out-
effects of education on ALB are not linear. Furthermore, the comes, we are unable to interpret patterns in terms of specific
highest levels of education observed in these communities social learning mechanisms or their predicted effects on the
at the time data were collected (i.e. high school) are unlikely adoption and spread of reproductive norms. Social network
to directly interfere with earlier reproductive careers [25]. studies might be a slight improvement, because they can

This means that any effects of education would have to be identify assortative clustering and frequency-dependent


behaviours (e.g. [69]), but more direct measures will be reproductive overlap between generations in these commu-

needed in order to parse out the complementary contri- nities, cooperation among alloparents in matrilineal areas is