informative when used on MinD-MinE assemblies, similar to Beyond the specificities of the Min system, we think that the
what has been achieved for FtsA—FtsZ assemblies [76]. insight gained by a detailed study of the Min system will be
Conditions in live bacteria are different from those of helpful also in other contexts. First of all, many proteins shuttle
reconstituted systems: the Min proteins might interact with between the cytoplasm and a membrane with rates that are
proteins that are absent in vitro and the membrane might pres- modified by other proteins or molecules. Just think about the
ent structural differences in both situations. For example, the vast class of proteins containing a C2 domain that have a high
cytoplasmic membrane of live E. coli is (partially) occupied affinity for attaching to a lipid membrane after binding Ca**,
by other biomolecules. Whether these differences have a fun- notably the family of conventional protein kinases C. Similar
damental effect on the Min-protein patterns or whether they to MinD, interactions with other molecules that constitute feed-
even require a different mechanism underlying the formation back loops can lead to pattern formation on membranes. These
of Min-protein oscillations in live cells and in reconstituted spatio-temporal aspects may shed new light on the cellular pro-
systems, as has been recently suggested [58], remains to be cesses these proteins are involved in. To give just one example,
seen. Given the fact that a single mechanism based on the formation of (nano)clusters that has been reported for some
observed Min-protein interactions reproduces a large part of membrane-bound signalling molecules [78-81] might play an
the observed patterns in vivo and in vitro, it seems unlikely important role in signal detection, amplification and relay.
to us that a fundamentally different mechanism is at work in Not all of these clusters are transient, for example, the one
the two situations. Still, parameter values are likely to differ formed by chemoreceptors in E. coli [78], and others may be
in vivo and in vitro and the relative importance of different assembled by the cytoskeleton and not through cooperative
protein interactions might not be the same either. Only effects intrinsic to the membrane-bound molecules [80]. Still,
quantitative experiments can help to answer these questions. a thorough understanding of the Min proteins can help to
Another point that is in dire need of quantitative exper- design experiments to answer how these structures are
iments concerns the bifurcation diagram. The theories make formed and what physiological roles they might play.
precise predictions about different dynamic states of the Min Notably, waves could be a common theme for these struc-

system as protein numbers or the size of bacteria and tures. Indeed, based on symmetry considerations, it was shown