organize into supramolecular structures when bound to amem- =

brane? If they do, how does MinE interact with them? In vitro,
MinD was found to form higher order structures in the form

of filaments [13] or tight helical arrays [12], and there is a 5. Conclusion and perspectives
report of helical filamentous MinD structures in vivo [73]. ATP The works reviewed in the above sections show that our under-
hydrolysis is likely required for their formation, since in vitro standing of the Min system owes a lot to a tight interplay
MinD failed to form helical arrangements in the presence of between experiments in vivo, experiments in vitro and theoreti-
the non-hydrolysable ATP analogue ATPY¥S [12]. However, it cal analysis. They have also shown the usefulness of
remains to be seen whether these structures are important investigating the protein dynamics in various geometries for
in vivo and whether they appear in the presence of surface constraining possible mechanisms leading to pattern for-
waves. As discussed above, the fact that MinD and MinE mation. In fact, geometries can often be controlled
reside longer on the membrane at the tail than in the front of sur- quantitatively in a more precise way than molecular inter-
face waves [46] indicates that supramolecular structures do exist actions. In our opinion, the interplay mentioned above has,
at least in vitro. Important advances have been made in elucidat- however, not yet unfolded its full power. Notably, a thorough
ing the interaction between MinD and MinE based on MinE mapping of the corresponding phase diagrams in various geo-
molecular structures that notably revealed conformational metries through experiments and calculations seems to be an
changes of MinE when interacting with MinD [45,47,74,75]. important step in deciphering the mechanisms underlying
New electron microscopy techniques might prove to be very emergent Min-protein patterns.
informative when used on MinD-MinE assemblies, similar to Beyond the specificities of the Min system, we think that the
what has been achieved for FtsA—FtsZ assemblies [76]. insight gained by a detailed study of the Min system will be
Conditions in live bacteria are different from those of helpful also in other contexts. First of all, many proteins shuttle
reconstituted systems: the Min proteins might interact with between the cytoplasm and a membrane with rates that are
proteins that are absent in vitro and the membrane might pres- modified by other proteins or molecules. Just think about the