
tern marker is both unifying and confusing. We highlight the Signal amplification mechanisms such as positive feedback
importance of understanding the local excitable or oscillatory are frequently employed to ensure sustained oscillations [17]
dynamics prior to understanding the spatial pattern formation. (for examples of alternative mechanisms such as cooperativity
When upstream factors marking the nucleation site of actin or ultrasensitivity, see [52]). On a molecular level, positive feed-
polymerization are used, it is clear that cortical waves represent back activation of GTPases typically requires direct interaction
clusters of discrete loci oscillating at different phases (figure 1). of the guanine nucleotide exchange factor with its own product,
Sequential assembly and disassembly of the loci gives the the GTP-bound form of GTPase. Such allosteric regulation has
impression of propagating waves [39-42]. This wave propa- been reported for Cdc42 [53,54] and Ras [55-58]. Alternatively,
gation is most clearly shown in the cortical pattern at the different pathways could positively feedback to each other,
basal surface but the same is true for waves associated with such as between PI3 K and Ras pathways [59,60] or between
the leading edge of the migrating cells [35,43] or neuronal phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K) and
branches [44]. In fact, even in the absence of high-resolution flu- Rho pathways [61]. Pathway cross-talk is empirically defined
orescence imaging, it has been recognized that cortical waves without knowing the precise network structures. Lastly, a
are made up of components that are ‘stationary with respect number of positive feedback loops involving actin have been
to points outside of the cell’ [45]. Such local dynamics could proposed for stable pattern formation such as polarity. These
be superimposed with cortical flow, but the local reactions include feedback between actin-based transport of Cdc42GTP
have to be dissected and understood. We, therefore, focus on and Cdc42GTP-stimulated actin polymerization [62,63], or
the molecular understanding of the activator—inhibitor sys- between PI3 K and actin [64]. Whether the same mechanism
tems underlying the local reactions and spatial-coupling operates in dynamic patterns is not clear.

mechanisms that affect their propagation in space.

(b) Oscillation frequency and inhibitor identity
(a) Activator and positive feedback mechanisms Not all cortical patterns are in an oscillatory state and dynamics