cortex, but this is scarcely surprising because the visual

4. The neural level: neural basis of the ‘core stimuli are different. However, they also activated the parietal
Seay lobes distinctively: there was a small common region in both
deficit left and right IPS that was activated in both simultaneous and

This section will present evidence from studies of brain struc- sequential presentations and, moreover, the amount of acti-
ture and function that reveals a specific network for vation was parametrically modulated by the ratio of the
numerical processes, and also reveals how this is abnormal two collections being compared.
in dyscalculics. Thus, for example, these regions were more activated by
An accumulator mechanism (figure 2) can be very comparing 11 blue to 9 green than by comparing 14 blue to
simple—analogous to a tally counter—and may need very 6 green (as in figure 7). In this respect, the IPS activations
few neurons to implement. In fact, there is some evidence were different from the occipital activations, which were
for single neurons performing this task in monkey lateral not modulated by the ratio between collections, thus showing
intraparietal sulcus [42]. Even if the counter is neurally that although visual regions were sensitive to the differences
simple, identifying the objects to be counted may not be. between continuous and discrete stimuli, they were not sen-
Big brains are needed to decide what is an object to be sitive to their numerical properties. The IPS activations
enumerated, as in the sheep and goats example above. were not only sensitive to these differences but also to their
Moreover, humans are flexible and can enumerate any set numerical properties. This is another reason why behavioural
of denumerable objects, whether they are presented simul- tests using dots in comparison, enumeration or matching to
taneously or sequentially, in any modality and by a the sample are so important.
common neural mechanism ([64,65]; see also [66—68]). In the study by Cappelletti et al. [31], as described above
There is now very extensive evidence that numerical tasks in §2, the brain region most strongly correlated with and
are supported by a specific brain network involving the left specific to the number tasks was the right intraparietal
and right intraparietal sulci (IPS), with the left IPS more sulcus, while the region activated by both number and con-