
Figure 3. Different theories of causal learning and representation put emphasis on correlations between perceptions (perception model), or on the learning of
motor acts and their typical perceptual consequences, which can become the goals of the acts (Piaget model). Further development of the Piaget model incor-
porates perception mechanisms of the motor act itself, thus interlinking it with the motor act representation (mirror-Piaget model). At the neurobiological level,
causal links would thus be present (a) between perceptual representations in the temporal cortex (green and blue neural elements in the perception model), (b)
between frontal motor act-related and temporal perceptual goal-related representations (connections between the frontal and posterior cortical regions, Piaget
model), or (c) between motor and perceptual action representations in the frontal and posterior cortex (red and orange neural elements) and posterior perceptual
goal representations (in green, mirror-Piaget model). Only the mirror-Piaget model explains causal learning by observation along with the ‘action advantage’ in
causal learning (see text for discussion).

words is captured by the family resemblance pattern of partial I will take a different avenue here. By taking a close look at
overlap. The feature-based analysis is enforced by the concept of causation, I will argue that this concept may in
neurobiological mechanisms. fact result from experiences, given that neurobiological mech-

A third group of abstract concepts might even lack any par- anisms with sophisticated information processing capabilities
tial feature-related relationship to concrete entities in the world. are available.

Logical expressions such as ‘and’, ‘or’ or ‘not’ are of this sort,
and likewise the concepts of necessity, functional connectivity
and causation, which are fundamental to our thinking and 4. Learning causal links by perceptual correlation
mental life. For these ‘distant’ abstract items, it seems implau-
sible to many that the knowledge about their meaning can be
derived from experiences.

It seems obvious that causation is closely related to experiences.