inclined to relinquish their own conceptions in the face of tes-
timony from those with more expertise.

Now for the point I have been building up to: deference is
often metacognitive. Explicit deference is a belief about the
thinker’s own concepts. The thinker is making a judgement
about their own mental states. For example, they are judging
that their individual means for applying their ELM concept are
inadequate and that they should depend on others. Another
kind of explicit deference concerns the word: ‘I don’t know


exactly what the word ‘marginalize’ means, so I'll defer’. This mind-independent properties (e.g. attire) and the fact that 5 |

is also metacognitive. It is a belief about knowledge-of-mean- those properties tend to cluster together is a real feature of
ing of the word. This metacognitive belief about the word the world. Minds are causally involved in creating the cluster, a
will also serve to make the associated concept work deferen- but the resulting dimensions of similarity are not mind-depen- s
tially. Its distinctive grounding characteristics can include dent. Deference opens the door to many abstract concepts of a
characteristics encoded by others using the same word. categories that are socially constructed, but we should not = 2
In cases where the beliefs driving deference are explicit, it think the categories are as a result any less important, or any “S
is relatively straightforward to see when they are metacogni- less real features of things in the world (e.g. of people). =
tive. Deference can also be implicit, and those cases are Finally, I ask whether the list of potentially grounding =
harder to assess. Joélle Proust distinguishes between analytic attributes referred to at the outset (cf. introduction to this ‘2
and procedural forms of metacognition [25,26]. Explicit defer- theme issue) covers metacognitive deference. Introspection ‘©
ence is a case of analytic metacognition. Implicit deference is was on the list. Does that cover metacognitive deference? = -