there are grasping-related neurons that are activated in here, neuroscience has demonstrated that humans map a
relation to the accomplishment of the outcome of grasping, some types of abstract conceptual content by means of — 2
regardless of the movements employed to accomplish the reuse of cortical networks previously understood as uniquely 5
goal [46]. Cognitive abilities like the hierarchical represen- underpinning sensory-motor processes. Somatotopic motor =
tation of action with respect to a distal goal, the detection activation has been observed during the comprehension of =
of motor goals and action anticipation are possible because abstract and figurative use of language such as metaphors ‘=
of the peculiar functional architecture of the motor system, and idioms (e.g. [55-57]). The latter study, for example, ‘©
organized in terms of goal-directed motor acts. demonstrated that the primary somatosensory cortex is = -5
It has been proposed that the proper development of such activated when participants process textural metaphors like =
functional architecture probably scaffolds more cognitively ‘he is a smooth talker’. =
sophisticated social cognitive abilities [47]. Goal coding is Yet, the role of Embodied Simulation in the construction of -
therefore not only an abstract, mentalist and experience- figurative meaning is still controversial, with contrasting empiri- 2
independent property, but it appears to be a distinctive cal findings (e.g. Lai & Curran [58]). In fact, the activation of S
functional feature upon which the cortical motor system of Embodied Simulation during metaphor processing has not w
non-human primates is organized. Goal-directed motor acts been consistently replicated (see Cuccio; Cuccio et al. [33,59]
are the nuclear building blocks around which action is for a discussion). 3
produced, perceived and understood. As recently argued by Hayes & Kraemer [60], grounding ©
Mirror neurons, multimodal motor neurons originally conceptual knowledge in perceptual and motor systems  &
discovered in the ventral premotor cortex of macaque mon- addresses the question of how advanced human intellectual
keys [22], extend these properties as they map the same systems, such as language and mathematical reasoning, devel-
goal-related content—say, to crack a peanut—regardless of oped across a relatively short evolutionary time scale. Indeed,
who the agent is (e.g. the monkey itself or another observed it is highly unlikely that the human brain developed within
agent, [23]), regardless of whether the observed action is fully few thousand years a distinct neural system dedicated to pro-
visible or can only be imagined [48] and regardless of the sen- cessing the type of information central to scientific conceptual
sory channel (e.g. vision or audition) conveying the content understanding. Congruent with this hypothesis are the results