to underestimate the role of language in the acquisition movements and actions we are going to perform), when we
of concepts. In our proposal, Embodied Simulation is a interact with other people and we need to understand their = 2.
necessary but not sufficient condition for the formation of a actions, emotions and experiences, and even during the com- “2
full-fledged conceptual system. To be more precise, we pro- prehension of linguistic descriptions of facts, actions and
pose that Embodied Simulation, with its iconic character, is events. In all these different contexts, our bodily knowledge, ~
a prerequisite—both phylogenetically and ontogenetically— activated through the mechanism of Embodied Simulation, is =
for the acquisition of indexical and symbolic relations. After recruited by different cognitive tasks. In each of them, the =
the acquisition of symbolic referential relations and language, cognitive puzzle we need to solve is resolved also through -
this species-specific modality of representation and epistemic the recall of our background, skeletonized, bodily knowl- 2
access to the world significantly contributes to the formation edge. This process can be described as an abductive S
of abstract and concrete concepts. Language, in this view, is a inference (probably an automatic abduction; see [41,69] on w
necessary condition, too, for concept formation, although its the role of Embodied Simulation in automatic abductions): —
role and degree of involvement might differ depending on the cognitive puzzle (i.e. the facts, stated in the premise of ©
the kind of concepts or on the context of use. the abductive inference, we need to make sense of) is ©
It is worth noting that, in the light of our proposal, the resolved through a form of diagrammatic reasoning that is = &
embodiment of abstract and concrete concepts can be inter- based on the recall of a simulation routine. This knowledge
preted in two different but not mutually exclusive ways. On (the simulation routine) allows us to identify the similarity
the one hand, the expression ‘embodiment of concepts’ usually relation, for example, between our past actions and experi-
refers to the direct recruitment of the sensorimotor system ences, and the actions and experiences of the people we are
during conceptual processing (e.g. [20]). This is the sense of observing. Thanks to the identification of this similarity
‘embodiment’ most frequently discussed in the current Embo- relation, we can, thus, go from the premise of the inference
died Cognition debate. On the other hand, the ‘embodiment of (the actions observed, in this example) to its conclusion (our
concepts’ also alludes to the phylogenetic and ontogenetic understanding of those actions). Simulation routines are, in
acquisition of the ability to conceptualize (e.g. [18,68]). this account, the background bodily knowledge on which the
Having said so, we still need to prove that simulation inference is based. They are a model of our own bodily experi-