Both these features also characterize Embodied Simulation. [70], they are just cues that prompt us to activate our back- -
One condition for the simulation mechanism being enacted is ground, encyclopaedic knowledge [71] hence, activating 2
sharing a baggage of (sensorimotor) experiences and knowl- concepts. Encyclopaedic knowledge, on the other hand, is S
edge. Embodied simulation is enacted starting from what for grounded in both linguistic and non-linguistic information. w
us is ‘first,’ ie. what for us is known and easily accessible in Thus, language acts both as a clue for the access to ourencyclo- =
terms of motor potentialities and experiences. Sharing a reper- paedic knowledge and as a source of information for our ©
toire of practices, experiences and sensations is therefore an encyclopaedic knowledge, in the latter case together with sen-
essential condition, because only by starting from what is sorimotor, perceptual and emotional knowledge. While, inour
well known to us it is possible to identify analogies between encyclopaedic knowledge, linguistic and non-linguistic infor-
our actions and others. We understand the other starting mation interact, we propose that the balance between them
from our own bodily experience, which is what is ‘best for every concept, be it abstract or concrete, might not be
known and first for us’, again using Aristotle’s words. On fixed, but depends on concept usage [70]. As a minor note, lex-
the basis of this knowledge, we identify similar elements in ical entries too have a bodily component. In fact, in addition to
our experiences as well as in those of others. semantic processing, motor simulation has been suggested to
We claim that, for the reasons we have already explained, also contribute to speech perception. Lexical entries are
both the iconic logic of abduction proposed by Peirce and the encoded and understood not only as sounds, but as articula-
Aristotelian notion of paradeigma well explain the cognitive tory gestures necessary to speak (see Alvin Libermann and
role of the mechanism of Embodied Simulation. In our propo- colleagues theory of speech perception: [72,73]; see also Di
sal, embodied simulation routines, considered as the Cesare et al. [74] for a recent discussion and empirical findings).
instantiation of similarity relations, are the root of our ability Linguistic and bodily cognition, in our perspective, afford
to conceptualize, being the ground for any other form of us diversified modalities of epistemic access to the world.
referential relation. And, we think, this claim holds true However, as we have seen, linguistic and bodily modalities
both for abstract and concrete concepts, whose foundation contaminate one another and are inevitably interwoven.
is, thus, both phylogenetically and ontogenetically, grounded Thus, summarizing, on the one hand, as we have already
in our bodily experiences. pointed out, Embodied Simulation seems to play a crucial