lation seems to match the defining features that Peirce (for a more detailed discussion of this point, see [41]).
ascribed to icons, still it is true that, to a certain degree, every- Interestingly, Peirce’s notion of abduction is usually
thing could be interpreted as an icon, depending on the level considered as the equivalent of the Aristotelian notion of
of abstraction and schematization at which we identify and apagoghé (Peirce himself acknowledged this; see CP 1.65
interpret the similarity relation. It is, thus, a fundamental and 7.249). Both inferential processes are, indeed, hypotheti-
step in our argument to show that the role of Embodied cal, and both allow us to broaden our knowledge.
Simulation in human cognition can be explained in terms Furthermore, in his writings, Peirce also refers to the Aristo-
of the establishment of iconic relations. To do so, we will telian notion of paradeigma (a form of analogical reasoning
resort to the Peircean notion of abduction and to the role typical of rhetorical contexts; see CP 1.65), which he defined
icons have in this kind of inference. Abduction is a mode of as a combination of the characters of induction (epagoghé) and
reasoning (deduction and induction are the other two) retroduction/abduction (apagoghe). Indeed, while in the Prior
whose inferential path is characterized by the fact that it ‘pre- Analytics (11.24 [78]), Aristotle defined the paradeigma (the
sents facts in its Premise which present a similarity to the fact exemplum, in the Latin translation) as an inference where
stated in the Conclusion’ (CP 2.96). In other words, abduction ‘the major term is proved to belong to the middle by means
is an inference based on an iconic relation. The premise is of a term which resembles the third’ (this definition seems to
connected to the conclusion through the recall of some back- suggest that paradigmatic reasoning is an inference based
ground knowledge, the ‘rule’ in Peircean terms. This latter on an analogy), at the same time, in the Rhetorics (1356b
can be thought of as a diagrammatic model, or icon, on the 14-15 [76]) he defined the paradeigma as the transposition of
basis of which we can connect the facts stated in the premise inductive reasoning in rhetorical contexts. Thus, paradig-
with those stated in the conclusion. The abductive inference matic reasoning shares some of the features that
has a hypothetical nature: by reasoning on the ‘rule’/icon, characterize the iconic logic of abduction and, at the same
we can discover new elements about the facts we are observ- time, it also presents characters that typically identify induc-
ing and hypothesize new solutions. Abductive inferences, tion. As we pointed out in a previous work [52], for these
thus, make us able to acquire new knowledge. reasons it seems to be, too, a good model to describe the cog-
Let us now turn again to the mechanism of Embodied nitive role of the mechanism of Embodied Simulation.