concept twice’. Wilson & Golonka [71] propose that task- that the symbolic character of language—the fact that it is an
dependence is a central component of embodied cognition. externally derived symbol system that is both compositional
My intention is not to claim exclusive priority but merely to and productive—offers a number of potential cognitive
codify what I see as the best approach. benefits. One of these is the common absence of a direct con-
There will be others, though, who claim that the view out- nection between linguistic representations and their referents.
lined in this essay amounts to a disavowal of embodied This semantic arbitrariness may help them anchor embodied
cognition [62]. While I disagree with this assessment, not and grounded knowledge. Giving voice to this idea, Zwaan
much hangs on this. The central role played by situated sen- [84] hypothesizes that distributed linguistic representations

sorimotor simulations in this account seems sufficient to serve as symbolic placeholders for multimodal simulations.


An additional cognitive benefit may arise from the fact that phenomenon in which language appears to scaffold our cogni- 5 |

linguistic symbols are syntactically re-combinable in a way tive efforts. Metaphor is important for the purposes of this
that is independent of the combinatorial properties of essay not only because it may play a role in the acquisition of a
non-linguistic embodied and grounded cognition. This inde- some abstract concepts, but also because it serves as a useful s
pendent structural flexibility may make it easier to generate test case for the disruptive technology approach. a
new thoughts and encode unexpected connections between Metaphor has traditionally been seen as both a source of — 2:
thoughts [95,96]. Developing this idea further, Lynott & evidence for embodiment and a potential means of solving S
Connell [97] propose that conceptual combination arises from the problem abstract concepts. Working from observations =
the interaction between the linguistic and simulation systems. concerning language use, cognitive linguists have shown that =
Some researchers who acknowledge that linguistic represen- a great deal of our discourse is organized around experiential “2
tations have a role to play in conceptual tasks suggest that this metaphors [101,102]. Several have proposed that we relyon ‘©
role is typically more superficial and less effective than that of embodied conceptual metaphors to understand abstract con- — -s