location (i.e. side by side existence or similarity); or ‘something observations. It was often the concrete words that had particu-
will occur’ palms face each other (i.e. something) and move larly low numbers of observations in certain categories.
away to the right of body and resting there (some entity existing Collapsing those may have had the consequence of minimizing
in the future). Likelihood may not have an obvious connection to some of the differences in utterances produced for abstract and
a metaphor of physical forces per se, but participants found concrete trials. Given the novel, unconstrained nature of this
ways to depict at least some meaningful physical aspects via task we think that these decisions were justified but the result
gesture. The presence of meaningful gestures when communi- is that our findings may be a conservative estimate of the
cating the meanings of abstract words provides a novel insight ways in which abstract and concrete meanings differ.
into the representation of abstract meaning. That is, data from We believe that the words presented in the taboo task
gestural behaviour in the present study are consistent with were reasonably representative of larger populations of
the notion that underlying spatial image schemas were abstract and concrete words, but it seems unlikely that they
activated along with, or as part of, the linguistic system. represent all types of abstract and concrete meanings. Given
The fact that rates of metaphoric gesture were higher the nature of the taboo task, we had to limit our stimuli to
for abstract than for concrete words is consistent with the pre- a fairly small set of 20 abstract and 10 concrete nouns, but
dictions we derived from Conceptual Metaphor Theory. This think it will be important in future research to examine a
finding is also inconsistent with Barsalou & Wiemer- greater diversity of abstract meanings. Extending the investi-
Hastings’ [9] claim that metaphors are not central to the content gation to other classes of abstract words, including verbs and
of abstract concepts. As Borghi et al. [17] noted, however, it is adjectives, is an important next step. The diversity of abstract
unlikely that conceptual metaphors can explain representation meanings could never adequately be captured in a sample of
of all abstract concepts. Note that beat gestures were also more 20 words, but our findings provide important new insights
likely when participants communicated the meanings of about the deep problem of how we ground the meanings of

abstract words. This could be because this type of gesture abstract words.

