the gestures that accompanied participants’ verbal utterances mation varying across item types and tasks. Participants in ©
about abstract word meanings. Results showed that attempts our study did not rely on simple shortcuts to convey word = -5
to convey the meanings of abstract words involved more meaning; for instance, they rarely offered synonyms or =
metaphorical and beat gestures, whereas communication sentence frames (e.g. ‘complete this statement: manifest =
about concrete word meanings involved more iconic gestures. ’ destiny) to convey the target word. Instead, when -
Metaphoric gestures suggested a concrete grounding or frame asked to communicate abstract meanings, participants derived 2
for meaning; for instance, when communicating decision, a par- relatively rich descriptions that appear to coalesce around an S
ticipant gestured with two palms up, one moving upward, one agent. That is, they conveyed meaning by evoking situations w
moving downward like a seesaw, to convey the idea that one that were focused around person (self, other) and introspective —
has to weigh something carefully. This gesture was metaphoric (beliefs, emotions, intentions) information. Their gestural ©
because it conveyed meaning by the action of weighing, behaviour provided a window on aspects of meaning that ©
grounding the abstract mental process of decision in something were not necessarily revealed by speech; gestures conveyed 53
more concrete. Iconic gestures referenced word meaning more additional perceptually-based information. The fact that par-
directly; for instance, when communicating beverage, partici- ticipants drew on so many types of information, even though
pants often depicted the actions of holding a container and they could have completed the task without doing so, suggests
drinking from it. According to the Gesture as Simulated relatively rich and dynamic multidimensional representations.
Action framework [31], the common element that metaphoric Based on our data, however, we cannot determine whether
and iconic gestures imply is the existence of an underlying perceptually-based information was essential to semantic pro-
image schema. cessing in this task [54] or, rather, a by-product of symbolic
Our results suggest, further, that such schemas might per- representations [55]. Establishing whether all of these dimen-
haps be even more pervasive than Hostetter & Alibali [31] sions are central or even necessary to abstract semantic
proposed. For instance, the word likelihood is one that Hostetter processing will be an important issue for future research.
and Alibali would have suggested is probably not understood Since our focus was on fundamental differences in mean-
via image schema or action simulation since the word has’. . .no ings of abstract and concrete words, and not on differences
clear relation to the metaphor of physical forces. . .’ (p. 504). Yet that should be attributed to task difficulty or to small