
THE ROYAL SOCIETY

PUBLISHING © 2018 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


The point also extends to evaluative concepts in other interpersonal convergence in aesthetic judgements about | 2 |

domains. Consider aesthetics. As with morals, aesthetics is simple geometrical forms. Third, the term ‘beauty’ is used
a domain where we evaluate things as good or bad. One somewhat ambiguously [20]. It extends to uses that are a
might think that aesthetics is easier to ground in the senses, synonymous to ‘aesthetic value’ or ‘artistic success’ in a s
because aesthetic evaluation is often based on sensory broader sense. So even if one concedes that ‘beauty’ in a nar- a
features, as when we assess something as beautiful. In fact, rower sense has a sensory dimension, there is the broader — 2
the word aesthetics was reintroduced in the eighteenth category of ‘aesthetic goodness’ that extends beyond sensory 5
century to refer to the science of the senses [10]. But things qualities. =
are not so simple. Sibley [11] argues that no set of non-aesthetic This becomes even more obvious with respect to evalu- =
concepts, including concepts of shapes or colours, is ever suf- ations in the domain of art. The assessment of an artwork can“
ficient for the application of aesthetic concepts. Although be influenced by originality, functional excellence, exemplarity ‘©
aesthetic terms such as ‘unified, balanced, integrated’ depend for its category, art historical significance, distinguished = -5
on the presence of specific perceptual features, they addition- authorship, difficult execution and timely content. Even if =
ally require the application of taste. The pleasure we take in one could ground each of these individual dimensions of aes- =
aesthetic qualities therefore differ from those in non-aesthetic thetic merit in the senses, it is far from clear how they get -
ones. The conditions under which those pleasures are elicited unified into a coherent category. What makes a certain 2
include, for example, sensitivity to the specific context of a piece a good work of art? The concept that we apply these S
work of art, and therefore require more than just perceptual cases might be termed ‘artistic goodness’. Here, the sensory w