more frequently been regarded as sensuous and subjective, 2. Emotional grounding of value
but, even now, many deny that beauty is simply a perceiva-
ble feature of the world. The idea here is that aesthetic (a) Emotional grounding
concepts do not just pick out what is out there, but impose The challenge posed by evaluative concepts was well known
something of the viewer. Thus, even those who link beauty to empiricists. Hume [21] dedicates the first part of his three-
to perception propose that it depends on reactions in part magnum opus to arguing that concepts are generally
normal perceivers [17] or is tinged with feeling [18]. Thus, grounded in perception (or, ‘ideas’ are grounded in
while maybe not being entirely abstract, beauty goes beyond ‘impressions’). The final part of the book is dedicated to
mere perception. This seems to be a consensus on beauty. how we understand morality. How does he apply his version
If one surveys work on beauty, one can extrapolate at of grounded cognition to moral concepts? The answer is
least three reasons to say that aesthetic evaluation relies on given by the second part, which deals with passions. For
something abstract or non-sensory. First, beauty takes many Hume, moral facts are not part of an observable, external rea-
forms: elegance, balance, graphic impact, delicate contours, lity, like scientific facts. Rather, they are projections onto the
striking (or subtle) colour combinations and ideals of perfec- world, which are based on our preferences for how the
tion within a category. Likewise, different objects have their world should be. These projections consist in our sentiments
own standards of beauty. Beauty-making features in one or emotional responses to character traits and behaviour. We
kind of object might not extend to others. (A beautiful have positive feelings about justice and negative feelings
desert has different features to a beautiful mountain, or a about murder. Hume [21] also offers an emotional approach
beautiful face.) Thus, there is not a single look of beauty, to aesthetic values along similar lines, as do his contempor-
but rather many. There are also beautiful sounds, and these aries [22]. In summary, Hume makes three claims: cognition
too are highly varied. One might address this by proposing is grounded, evaluative concepts are projections and those
that there are many kinds of beauty, each of which is sensory. projections are emotional.
That would render the term ‘beauty’ radically ambiguous. It Someone might object that emotions cannot serve to
is more plausible, we think, that the category gains coherence ground abstract concepts, because emotion concepts are
from some common denominator that goes beyond external themselves abstract. One frequently finds names of emotions