neurons [20] and oocytes [21]. Theoretical modelling as well excitable spatio-temporally anticorrelated waves of both Rho
as experimental observations suggests that these oscillatory activity and F-actin accumulation (figure 2d,e). Interestingly, in
activities are an outcome of feedback interactions between both systems, the Rho and actin waves propagate at similar
biochemical signalling and the cortical structures they create. velocities (approx. 0.2 ums~') with wavelength of approxi-
These waves are thought to arise from excitable circuits contain- mately 20 ym and period of approximately 80 s [21]. An order
ing fast positive feedback (via an activator) and delayed of magnitude slower and larger than other propagating actin/
negative feedback (due to an inhibitor) [5,15,22-25]. In WRC waves observed in cellular cortex, the Rho-actin waves
chemoattractant-stimulated neutrophils, the WASP family vero- in oocyte cortex indicate that excitable cortical activity can be
prolin homologue (WAVE) regulatory complex (WRC) forms scaled from mesoscopic sub-cellular scale to larger scales
oscillatory outward propagating waves (figure 2a—c), which during early development. The Rho-actin waves and WRC
exhibit several features of excitability including an all-or-none waves share similar logic underlying their excitability—local
response, destructive interference of wavefronts and refractory positive feedback and actin-based inhibition of the nucleation-
zones behind the fronts of activation [5]. The self-organization promoting factor. The fact that these two systems use different
of WRC wavesis driven by local positive feedback, likely arising nucleators (Arp2/3 in WRC instead of formins in Rho-actin
from strong cooperativity in Rac-GTP and phosphatidylinositol waves), yet are both susceptible to actin-based inhibition,
(3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3)-dependent recruitment and acti- suggests a general feature of these actin-based excitable waves.
vation of WRC and self-enrichment of WRC complexes Finally, neuronal axons exhibit lateral F-actin waves that
through oligomerization on the plasma membrane [5,28,29]. propagate via directed assembly and disassembly of actin
Activated WRC recruits actin-related protein 2/3 complex cables mechanically anchored to the cell membrane via clutch

(Arp2/3) to nucleate new actin filaments, and the resulting molecules like L1-CAM. These waves, which are proposed to


WAVE
complex