late of behavioural traits; it is upon this prior background of undoubtedly contributes to questionnaire scores or ratings
neurotransmitter activity that acute challenges by drugs and of impulsivity. Data from human PET studies employing
environment factors operate. Overall, it is apparent that DA D1 and D2/3 ligands show that there is a clear relation-
impulsivity can be related to reductions of DA function in ship between D2/D3 binding and measures of behavioural
the core region, but also increases in the shell, which makes inhibition, as distinct from behavioural activation and
it difficult overall to argue for a simple monotonic relation- approach, in dorsal striatal circuits [28]. Pharmacological
ship of reduced accumbal DA to ‘impulsivity’ [22]. data in rats indicate that D2 receptor blockade in the dorsal
In terms of personality traits, impulsivity has been associ- striatum, but not the nucleus accumbens core, impair stop
ated with Extraversion and a separate factor of cognitive signal performance, confirming a general role for DA D2
control or constraint [3]. Extraversion itself has been equated receptors in impulsive behaviour [27], but also showing
with incentive motivation and the sensitivity of the individ- that impulsivity may be fractionated into different forms
ual to reward and reward-related stimuli by several authors (‘waiting’ and ‘stopping’ impulsivity), mediated by distinct
[15,17]. However, high impulsive rats are not in fact necess- neural circuitries [29].
arily most sensitive to reward-related stimuli. Premature or A review of PET studies of D2/3 receptor availability in
‘impulsive’ responding in the 5-CSRTT has been shown to relation to personality traits in humans in this issue [30] sur-
be inversely related to responding for conditioned reinforcers veys several relevant studies pertinent to this discussion, but
such that those animals better able to use reward-related also reports a significant (and replicated) correlation with
associations to inform responding in the environment are striatal D2 receptor availability with the personality trait of
also better able to inhibit inappropriate motor responses ‘social detachment’. This association illustrates possible
[23]. High impulsive rats are also neither most likely to exhi- associations of DA with other temperamental dimensions,
bit elevated locomotor activity in novel environments nor besides novelty seeking and impulsivity, that may plausibly
enhanced Pavlovian approach conditioning, although these be related to psychoticism and social withdrawal, made
forms of behaviour also undoubtedly both depend on DA- plausible by the therapeutic actions of anti-psychotic D2
dependent functions of the nucleus accumbens [22]. How- receptor drugs [30]. These effects are not clearly related to
ever, there is a weak, though significant, relationship the dimensions of extraversion and impulsivity.