14 months to 7 years. This result is consistent with other data keys [35]. Dog breeds with a large body size are less fearful of w
affirming separate circuits for private feelings and public both humans and dogs than small breeds, and red junglefowl =
behaviours [24]. bred for low fear of humans are larger and more dominant =
Many 15- and 18-year-olds who had been high reactive than smaller size fowl [36-38]. S
infants and displayed BI at age two were no longer shy Studies of many animals, including fish, rodents, foxes, 52
with strangers. One adolescent boy with this profile wrote horses, dogs and cats, reveal associations between pigmenta-
an essay describing how he successfully coped with his feel- tion of the skin or fur coat and behaviour. Mares from a large
ings: ‘I have found that the manifestation of my anxiety can sample of Tennessee walking horses who had a black coat
be overcome by using simple mind over matter techniques. were more self-reliant than those with a more reddish coat,
... Because I now understand my predisposition towards called bays [39]. These observations invite the speculation
anxiety. I can talk myself out of simple fears.’ that the genes controlling the migration of neural crest cells
It is likely that parental practices contribute to the vari- may contribute to high or low reactivity in Caucasian
ation in BI behaviour among high reactive infants. Doreen samples. This claim is based on the fact that some neural
Arcus observed a sample of high reactive and other infants crest cells become the tissues that contribute to the shape of
on five occasions in the home between 5 and 13 months. the face while others become the melanocytes of skin and
The high reactives raised by mothers who picked them up iris which make either eumelanin (brown or black) or
immediately when they cried, were reluctant to yell when pheomelanin (yellow or red) [40].
they were in danger, and tried to protect them from situa- Northern Europeans are more likely than most human
tions that might evoke fear displayed more BI behaviour at populations to combine blue eyes with a narrow face. This
14 months than high reactives whose mothers were less group had to endure long, cold winters for more than 400
protective [25]. generations. Hence, mutations that potentiated activity in the
Although most high reactives learn to suppress BI sympathetic chain of the autonomic nervous system would
responses as they mature, they continue to experience an have been adaptive because sympathetic constriction of skin
uncomfortable feeling when unable to predict or prepare capillaries facilitates the retention of body heat.
