an animal group may develop some kind of implicit repu- analogous distinction, labelled as that between minatory
tation among others who can name their name [64], but not and hortatory moral rules, see Findlay [66].)
signs that this is elaborated into steady streams of communi- It is not entirely clear when our hominin ancestors first
cation about individuals’ characteristics that function either developed language. The most relevant issue here would be
to objectively describe or to praise or cajole them. This is when did language develop enough so that social rules
not to argue, as was done too often in the past, that could be explicitly referenced, and undesirable and desirable
humans are innately superior to other species due to morality attributes. Some [67,68] give the arising of gossip a central
and culture, but simply to note the direction in which unique place in the evolution of language, noting e.g. that the gram-
human adaptations have proceeded. We should assume that matical structure of language with subject, verb and object [or
natural selection has bestowed on other species, through their adjective] is nicely suited for storytelling about others. One
own unique directions of adaptation, advantageous can certainly imagine internalization of rules without
capacities that humans lack. I argue for the conception of language—the behaviour-outcome expectancies that are the
humans as cultural and moral animals as a fact—well- cognitive corollary of operant conditioning might be loosely
based in empirical evidence. How to account for it? How considered internalized rules. However, it is harder to ima-
did this adaptation develop? gine extensive gossip, selection-by-reputation and advocacy

of altruistic behaviour without language. Language enabled
mutual observation to be coordinated in gossip that could
lead to external sanctions (or the threat of it) by a community

3. Traci ng the evolution of moral ity united in an ethos and its accompanying potent semantic rep-
Boehm [33,65] provides a plausible, insightful account of how resentations, not to mention direct rewards for appearing
hominins moved from a paradigm lacking in moralistic cul- altruistic (e.g. in a mate-attraction context). Thus, language

ture (as in chimpanzees) to one in which it was central. It would facilitate selection effects on the human gene-pool.