role in TL dynamics during embryonic/fetal development. telomerase ‘overshoots’, adding telomere repeats to the ends | 2 |

This is because the mitochondria are inherited solely from of the chromosomes over and above those lost due to the
the mother. replication of male germ stem cells [7]. a
The DNA of the human mitochondria, the main source of But, there might be another potential explanation for telo- s
endogenous reactive oxygen species (ROS), is highly polymor- mere elongation in sperm, namely, age-dependent survival, i.e. a
phic, presumably because of evolution-mediated adaptation to selection, of male germ stem cells that produce lower amounts — 2
different environmental and geographical settings [24]. Mito- of ROS. These selected germ stem cells would display less TL S
chondrial DNA (mtDNA) is not only polymorphic but also shortening per replication. If telomerase in the male germline =
heteroplasmic, i.e. two or more mtDNA alleles might coexist adds a constant amount of telomere repeats with each germ =
in different proportions in different cells of the same lineage cell replication, age-dependent enrichment of germ stem cells “S
[24]. Thus, mtDNA polymorphisms and heteroplasmy may, that produce a lower amount of ROS would result in progress) ‘©
respectively, engender variation in ROS production across ively longer telomeres in the germline of older males. In fact, = -s
individuals and across cells of the same lineage within the indirect evidence, derived from research in twins, suggests a = =
individual. As ROS augment replication-dependent TL short- PAC-mediated preferential selection of germ stem cells with =
ening [25,26], cells that produce lower amounts of ROS longer telomeres in the male germline [35]. Moreover, as the -
should experience less replication-dependent TL shortening. mitochondria in the male germline are not transmitted to the off- 2
Owing to the uniparental (asexual) mode of mitochondrial spring, mitochondrial variants that produce more ROS would S
inheritance, the outcomes of mitochondrial mutations cannot not be selected out across generations of males. Thus, the PAC w
be attenuated through germline recombination. However, effect would repeat itself generation after generation. wv
‘purifying selection’ of mitochondria occurs in primordial 3
stem cells of the female germline, presumably to cull deleter- Ss
ious mutations in the mitochondrial genome, which displays . =)
a higher mutational rate than the nuclear genome and 4. Conclusion
increased susceptibility to mutational drift [27,28]. However, TL is a complex genetic trait whose dynamics during the