absence of peripheral stimulation by ectoparasites. Animals in Studies of many primate species show that autogrooming is
ectoparasite-free captive environments, such as zoological confined to easily accessible regions of the individual's body,
parks, still groom [38], as do wild animals like bighorn sheep whereas allogrooming is focused on invisible and inaccessible
living ina tick-free desert environment [49]. Stimulus—response regions such the head, neck, and back [63-65] and within inac-
grooming alone would not be an adequate defence because cessible regions, allogrooming is distributed evenly [63]. These
ectoparasites might frequently evade cutaneous sensory mech- patterns are consistent with behaviour designed for efficient
anisms, and programmed grooming may be particularly ectoparasite removal, rather than merely social contact or com-
effective at removing ectoparasites that are numerous or unli- munication. Furthermore, the form of grooming movements
kely to activate cutaneous sensory mechanisms, such as those reflects an ectoparasite-removal function: typically, primates
in larval and nymphal stages, as well as adult ectoparasites stroke and visually inspect the fur, then pick up adult lice
before they have attached to feed [38]. with the digits or mouth, or comb lice eggs along an individual
The strength of the selection pressures shaping this adap- hair using the nail of the first finger and the tip of the thumb,
tation is illustrated by the fact that, when comparing between before ingesting the product [56]. Finally, grooming in pri-
species, or between juveniles and adults of the same species, mates has been shown to effectively reduce ectoparasite
smaller animals engage in more frequent programmed grooming loads [56,66]. For example, yellow baboons that were groomed
than larger animals, reflecting the greater ratio of surface area to more by conspecifics had fewer ticks, fewer wounds attributed
body mass in the former, and thus the proportionately larger vul- to clusters of feeding ticks, and less anaemia than those
nerability to ectoparasites [44,45,50]. In addition, as predicted by groomed less [67]. Thus, although grooming may have impor-
Mooring and colleagues, males in sexually dimorphic species tant social functions in primates, these appear to be built atop,
trade-off ectoparasite defence against vigilance for oestrus rather than having replaced, the original ectoparasite defence
females and rival males, and thus engage in less frequent pro- function of grooming. Indeed, allogrooming might play such
grammed grooming [51,52]. The frequency and duration of an important role in social exchange and bonding largely
programmed grooming bouts may be modulated by external because it is valuable to the recipient as defence against
stimuli that index increased vulnerability to ectoparasites, such ectoparasites [68].
as visual or tactile cues to their presence [14,39,48]. Programmed Although research into primate grooming has not generally