tion does not wipe out an entire memory or miraculously persist across contexts [77,88]. Furthermore, the finding that -
‘cures’ someone of a full disorder from one day to another, interventions in sub-clinical populations were successful in 2
from a clinical point of view this does not mean it is not contexts other than the original encoding contexts [59,115] S
worth investing in. The elimination of one debilitating symp- suggests that this is not such an issue, as long as the targeted w
tom may improve quality of life and functioning, and open memory system is sufficiently engaged. Another boundary
up resources to tackle (or prevent) other symptoms, as well condition is the finding that reactivation of a memory is ©
as have distal effects after time (e.g. [59]), and it may be possible necessary, but not sufficient, to destabilize a memory. Whether ©
to target different aspects of the memory one at a time. or not a memory trace is destabilized may, at least partly, S
Moreover, as argued above, for trauma it is an advantage depend on whether there is something to be learned,
that manipulations are usually restricted to one response ie. whether novel or conflicting information requires an
system—permanent erasure of all aspects of memory for a update [56,96,98,131,132], highlighting a potential evolutionary
traumatic event is not the aim of evidence-based clinical inter- function of reconsolidation mechanisms [86,133]. This may be
ventions (figure 1) and could, in fact, bring about profound governed by prediction error, i.e. a mismatch between what is
legal, ethical and clinical consequences of concern [119]. expected and what occurs (for a computational account of
More broadly, specifying clear, precise clinical targets when and how prediction may play a role in memory updating,
and memory read-outs allows one to systematically test and see [134]). For example, one study [56] showed that in the case
optimize interventions along the translational pathway that a certain stimulus (CS) always predicted a shock (UCS), a
(figure 2), which is impractical if one tries to treat an entire psy- single unreinforced presentation of the CS led to a violation of
chiatric syndrome at once. It is well recognized that the current predictions and triggered memory destabilization. However,
classification system for mental health disorders, DSM-5 [3], in the case of uncertainty (e.g. the stimulus was only reinforced
poses challenges for research owing to ongoing debate about in 50% of the trials during encoding), more unreinforced trials
the precise symptoms that constitute a given disorder were needed to create a mismatch with what was expected
and the overlapping symptoms across different disorders [56]. Similarly, older and stronger memories may require
[120-122]. Thus, a ‘precision focus’, focusing on one symptom additional retrieval procedures for updating to take place
rather than a whole disorder, may be more helpful when con- (e.g. [135,136]), as do individual differences such as exposure