(figure 2), which is impractical if one tries to treat an entire psy- single unreinforced presentation of the CS led to a violation of
chiatric syndrome at once. It is well recognized that the current predictions and triggered memory destabilization. However,
classification system for mental health disorders, DSM-5 [3], in the case of uncertainty (e.g. the stimulus was only reinforced
poses challenges for research owing to ongoing debate about in 50% of the trials during encoding), more unreinforced trials
the precise symptoms that constitute a given disorder were needed to create a mismatch with what was expected
and the overlapping symptoms across different disorders [56]. Similarly, older and stronger memories may require
[120-122]. Thus, a ‘precision focus’, focusing on one symptom additional retrieval procedures for updating to take place
rather than a whole disorder, may be more helpful when con- (e.g. [135,136]), as do individual differences such as exposure
sidering the aetiology of disorders. Indeed, arguably, it is the to chronic stress and high trait anxiety [130,137].
confusion that arises when talking about syndromes rather Thus, the optimal timings (see the earlier section (3b)
than symptoms that can stagnate scientific progress across ‘Multiple time points’) and duration of the reactivation pro-
various areas of mental health. cedure are likely to depend on the precise encoding history,
Second, scepticism has been fuelled by the fact that initial with more ambiguous memories possibly requiring more con-
attempts to apply procedures in the clinic have been difficult flicting information, longer durations or possibly multiple
to replicate. For example, the initial finding that trauma cue retrieval instances. Yet, longer and repeated retrievals of a
evoked physiological responding could be reduced following memory bear the risk of initiating extinction learning (which
a pharmacological procedure that was postulated to tap into involves the creation of a new, inhibitory memory trace [46])
reconsolidation mechanisms [118,123] was not replicated in a instead of memory destabilization. When this happens, no
follow-up study [124]. It should be noted that both studies updating appears to take place [98,138—140]. Some clinical
had several important limitations, such as small sample pilot studies [118,123,124] have used script-driven imagery
sizes [118,124] and lack of control groups for either the for the reactivation of the trauma memory, similar to EMDR-
effects of reactivation [118] or general drug effects [124]. It like treatments: the question is whether the method of retrieval
is important to follow this up and delineate boundary con- used in these treatments (prolonged, and with no obvious vio-
ditions that arise during the complexity of clinical lation of expectancy) would have triggered reconsolidation, or
translation. Failed replications are not unique to clinical set- instead extinction learning. Furthermore, memory read-outs