the subway. This makes integrating rail and bus data proble- relationships between the physical aspects of networks and
matic: independent travel data is required (if available) so the behavioural requirements and motivations of those travel-
that such stitching can take place, and this generates probabil- ling are not well worked out. Individuals moving, say, from = 2.
istic outcomes rather than absolute predictions [21]. There are the suburbs to the central city have many possible routes to ‘
theoretical problems too in linking flow systems together. For choose from and may choose those based on the interaction ©
example, many individuals engage in journeys to their work of somewhat idiosyncratic factors in comparison with the = -s
but at the same time are using email and social media to com- more straightforward demands of getting from one location =
municate essential features of their job to others while to another. This intersection of the physical with the social =
sometimes working from home, sometimes working on the and economic is an age-old problem in thinking about -
road and so on. To get a good perspective on cities working cities but in many respects, it is likely to be somewhat more 2
as flow systems, we need much more powerful theory to tractable from others we have raised. In progressing these S
enable us to make sense of all this complexity. This is far issues, visualization is ever more important, and considerable w
from forthcoming despite the fact that some progress is progress needs to be made in visualizing such patterns in =
being made [22]. There are an increasing number of related space-time as well as in broaching the question of how ©
datasets that might inform the kinds of movements that we different spatial and temporal scales can be simultaneously <>
have focused upon here, particularly those pertaining to visualized to provide a much more integrated understanding = &
mobile telephone calls. One of the best examples of such of movement patterns in cities [25]. These then represent
work is that generated at the Senseable Cities Lab where a directions for future work, and the interdisciplinary focus
variety of telecoms data has been simulated and visualized of the papers in this special issue help in their definition.
to show key hotspots in cities [23] but this is a very active
focus in research on the kinds of patterns explored in this Data accessibility. This article has no additional data.
paper, and substantial progress for enriching our understand- Competing interests. I declare I have no competing interests.
ing of mobility in cities is likely to come from such Funding. This study was supported by EPSRC Digital Economy Phase
developments in the next decade [24]. 2: UK Regions Digital Research Facility (UK RDRF) (EP/M023583/1).
References