to communicate effectively about death, suggesting that death concepts of 141 5- to 7-year-old children and surveying
parents who were more death-anxious were more avoidant their parents, Gaab ef al. [44] found that parents underesti-
or more likely to resort to euphemisms [26]. It should be mated their children’s understanding of all the sub-concepts
noted, however, that parents’ questionnaire responses about of death to some degree, with parents’ estimations of their chil-
how they talk to their children about death may not accurately dren’s understanding of death causality being the most
represent what they say when the topic comes up. Hunter & conservative. Together, these studies suggest that parents
Smith [9] found no significant correlation between children’s may be unaware of the extent of their children’s understanding
death concepts and their parents’ communication about of death. Beliefs about their children’s conceptual underdev-
death, when the latter was assessed by having parents write elopment, combined with hesitancy about the emotional
direct responses to a 5-year-old actor’s audio-taped questions implications of talking about death, may explain why many
about death. This methodological difference could account parents avoid the topic until circumstances demand it [10,24].
for the contrasting findings, or, as the authors acknowledged, The content of parents’ explanations is also revealing. These
it may be that Hunter & Smith’s [9] null findings could be can be broadly divided into two categories: scientific facts and
attributed to their relatively small sample (N = 37) and explanations, and religious, spiritual or emotional reassurance
restricted range of scores. Ultimately, the role of parental and comfort. Reassurance responses are explanations aimed at
input about death should be explored with methodologies providing solace to the child, and can include religious,
that capture what parents actually say to their children. emotional, biological or spiritual information (e.g. continued
Explorations of parents’ communication about death and existence after life, I won’t die until I’m much older, or it’s
dying highlight two factors that influence death concept alright to feel sad [24,45]). Facts and explanations generally
development in Western populations. These are: (1) the age relate to the biological processes involved in death, although
at which children are believed to be capable of understanding they can also relate to rites and rituals following death [24,45].
death, and therefore should be taught, and (2) the type of Providing children with the biological facts is obviously
information parents provide their children. Given that what important for children’s developing concepts of death.
parents discuss with their children is influenced by the age Gutiérrez et al. [45] explored the content of 60 American
of the child, this factor will be discussed first. parents’ self-reported conversations with their 3- to 6-year-