mize our pleasure—imprudent for reasons that are of it, I would not have achieved what I did; the additional


work of the other researchers benefitted me in that, because happens, for example, when a desire is fulfilled by virtue of | 4 |

of it, I succeeded. posthumous events. Suppose that I now want the sun to
Our formulation of achievementism is rough, so clarifica- rise tomorrow. If the sun will indeed rise tomorrow, my a
tion is in order. In effect, the proposal has two elements. One desire is fulfilled now—I get what I want now. (Contrast the s
is the idea that some desires may be fulfilled due to posthu- case in which I want to be watching the sun rise but it is mid- a
mous events. The other is the idea that fulfilling a certain sort night.) This is true regardless of whether I live to see it rise. = 2
of desire, namely the desire to achieve some goal that we set Most of us do have desires about what will happen after S
for ourselves, is intrinsically good for us. Let us consider each we are dead; if these cannot be fulfilled, retroactively, by =
in turn. We can begin by noting some facts about desires. virtue of posthumous events, then they cannot be fulfilled =
When we want something, what we desire may be stated at all, which makes it puzzling why we would ever form ‘2
in the form of a proposition. This is obvious in the case of my them. s
desire that I have some coffee, but it is also true in the case of my Recall the second element of our proposal concerning = -s
desire for fresh air, which may be restated, without loss of achievements: the idea that the fulfillment of the desire to =
meaning, as the desire that I have fresh air. Let us say that, achieve a goal is intrinsically good for us. Let us see if we can =
when we want something, what we desire is the object of sharpen this view. Let us use the term ‘achievement desire’ to -
our desire. Thus the object of my desire for fresh air is that refer to a desire to achieve something—that is, a desire whose 2
I have fresh air, or I have fresh air. For convenience, we can object is a proposition setting forth an accomplishment. In S
use the capital letter ‘P’ to stand for a proposition. Thus the previous example, I wanted to do research that would w
each desire has some proposition P as its object; to desire is have a certain result; the object of my desire was that I will
to desire that some proposition P hold. do research that leads to a cure for Alzheimer's. We can refine ©
Let us add that propositions are either true or false, and achievementism by saying that it is intrinsically good for us >