sidered. As a first pass, we might say that something is hurt us. The discomfort involved does not make the visit bad
overall good for us if and only if it makes our lives go for us given the far greater amount of suffering we otherwise
better than they otherwise would have gone. But what is it would have incurred.
for a life that goes one way to be better for us than a life Let me digress briefly to address a question that an evol-
that goes another way? Roughly, the answer is that the utionary biologist might raise about the notion of an overall
level of welfare or (what is the same thing) well-being good, namely this: does what is overall good for us coincide
attained by the one is greater than the level attain by the with what makes us more likely to survive or reproduce? It
other. To make the idea clearer, then, we will need to say does not. To make this clear, we can begin by noting that
something about the notion of welfare. our survival is not intrinsically good for us. Whether (and
How well off we are at a time or over a period of time is the extent to which) it is good for us depends on whether it
determined by the things we accrue during those times that enables us to accrue things that are otherwise good for us.
are intrinsically good for us, such as pleasure, and the What is more, survival need not be in our interests. This is
things we then accrue that are intrinsically bad for us, such shown by the fact that (as discussed below) dying at a particu-
as pain. Accruing intrinsic goods without accruing intrinsic lar time may be overall good for us. Putting aside the
evils boosts our welfare, while accruing the latter and not implications of retroactive harms and goods (discussed
the former lowers it. Thus, other things being equal, someone later), dying at a time will be overall good for us if, over
experiencing a great deal of pleasure and very little pain over the course of the remaining life we otherwise would have
the course of an evening has a higher welfare level that evening had, we would have fared badly. Similarly, something that
than she would have had if she had experienced a great deal improves our chances of reproducing may be against our
of pain and very little pleasure during that time. If we wish, interests; e.g. a medical procedure that reverses sterility
we can assign a positive number to a unit of pleasure and might cause uncontrollable depression. We can even imagine
a negative number to a unit of pain. Perhaps we can do the a medical treatment that allows us to live well far longer than
same with other intrinsic goods and evils. We could then is normally possible but that leaves us sterile. Note, finally,
represent a welfare level as the sum of these numbers, and that while many people (but not all) will enjoy a boost in
say that the higher the sum the greater the welfare level. their welfare as a result of having and rearing a child or