cal BP. Burial III seems to be slightly older than burial V, whole cemetery is earlier than previously thought or at = =
which is a double burial of an adult and a child. Burial III is least that the burials were accumulated over a considerable =
an accumulation of bones, which is interpreted as a secondary period of time. Further dates from VasilEvska III and other -
burial rather than a disturbed single inhumation [13]. The cemeteries from the area are, therefore, highly desirable. 2
intact double burial V, which contains an adult male and a A similar situation is found at Padina in Serbia. The dating S
child of 4—5 years of age on its left side, is one of the earliest of several burials revealed that the dates of the various inhuma- w
examples of human burial in the Holocene/Preboreal tions on the site, sometimes close to housing structures and =
(table 2). This double inhumation disturbed the double inhu- concentrated in three sections, were chronologically distinct. ©
mation of another adult and child, burial VI, leaving only While several dates reveal a middle and Late Mesolithic attri- = S
their lower limbs in place. Burial VI was organized in the bution, at least six dates represent an earlier inhumation in = ©
same way, however, with the bodies extended on their backs the late Preboreal and early Boreal time range [60]. For these

with the child on the left side of the adult. The fact that this burials two phases are, therefore, evident. The first and
double inhumation dates to the very end of the Pleistocene, oldest group (burials 11, 15 and 21), is dated between 12 100
10585 + 55 BP, 12549 + 131 cal BP (OxA-11000) (based on a and 11500 cal BP (or between 11700 and 10900 cal BP when

date on the remains of child VB) shows a continuity of funerary corrected for freshwater carbon reservoir effects on the
patterns between the final Pleistocene and early Holocene. This dating). The second group (burials 12, 14 and 39_ falls between
scenario is supported by the older date of double burial VI [8]. 11300 and 11 200 cal BP (corrected around 10500 cal BP). All

No grave goods or personal ornaments were recorded on the burials are single inhumations and none was accompanied
possible secondary burial III, but a considerable number of by grave goods. The mode of deposition is quite diverse, how-
objects have been found in close context with double burial ever; within the older group are two rare seated burials, while

V ((62], 277-279). However, there is uncertainty, not only in the remainder were buried in extended positions, with only