ture [14,15,39], we find that a range of 0.35-0.60 Pg C was the near future [43]. We found double the CO emissions in
emitted from the 2015 fires in Indonesia and Papua. East Indonesia and Papua than emissions reported by inven-
Large discrepancies were found in our study between tories. Forest loss in this region was about 6 times larger in
emission inventories and top-down CO emission estimates 2015 than the 2001-2014 average, while in Sumatra and
for the different sub-regions of Indonesia. Such discrepancies Kalimantan forest loss was comparable to the average of
are often associated with uncertainties in burned carbon, the previous 15 years (from www.globalforestwatch.org).
which in the case of peat may also originate from uncertain Together with an increase in fire susceptibility related to cli-
peat depth. However, they can also be an indicator of innacu- mate change [44], the future agricultural development of
rate biome attribution of fire emissions and highlight the West Papua might pose a significant fire risk. Satellite data
need for further investigation of peat distribution. Both peat of CO can be used towards monitoring the effectiveness of
area and depth were found to have significant uncertainties measures taken in reducing fire occurrence and spread.
in Indonesia [40]. Another indication of peat distribution CO satellite data products from IASI and MOPITT can
uncertainties is the fact that Lohberger et al. [19] find about complement existing fire indicators such as FRP, FCs and
half of carbon emitted in West Papua during the 2015 fires BA as part of operational systems such as CAMS (https://
to originate from peat, while GFED did not attribute any atmosphere.copernicus.eu/). Leip et al. [45] recommend
fires to peat burning in Papua during this event. Efforts to monitoring greenhouse gas emissions by a combination of
produce an accurate peat map for Indonesia are underway top-down and bottom-up methods. Similarly, we recommend
(http: //indonesianpeatprize.com/). combining current fire emission inventory techniques with
The spatial scale to which results are analysed can poten- top-down estimates based on atmospheric constraints. Inte-
tially be improved beyond the regional size of the order of grating multiple data streams would improve emission
1000 x 1000 km? for which we have shown results here. The estimates, fire monitoring and our general understanding
sensitivity of our model to regional emissions from Kalimantan, on fire processes.
Sulawesi and Maluku (electronic supplementary material,
figure S8) shows that the model is able to separate emission Data accessibility. Model output is available at https://trng-b2share.
regions that are only 300 km away. With the Sentinel 5P TRO- eudat.eu/records/01649b2e67b242d3a69d356f9b976789, and model