I do not deny that competition can be understood in prob- the discussion of orientations earlier). The phrase ‘oblique
abilistic terms. Winning a competition could be described as effect’ refers to the phenomenon that subjects are more accurate
a probabilistic decision. Any detailed model of competition in reporting cardinal (horizontal and vertical) orientations
could be described in probabilistic terms. My conclusion is than for oblique orientations. The van Bergen result is that
not that the probabilistic view is false but that it should be their measure of cortical uncertainty was higher for oblique
understood instrumentally rather than as describing actual than for cardinal grids. They say cortical uncertainty explains
probabilistic representations. As I will argue in the next sec- behavioural uncertainty. However, degree of cortical compe-
tion, the best attitude towards the Bayesian formalism is an tition gives essentially the same explanation, but without
‘as if’ or instrumentalist attitude, and that attitude is very commitment to probabilistic representation.
common in Bayesian writing. van Bergen et al. also showed (this is the second result)
There are a number of experimental studies that purport to that when they presented the same orientation repeatedly,
show probabilistic representations in human visual cortex. van subjects’ behavioural precision was predicted by the cortical
Bergen et al. [34] start by conceding, of the probabilistic hypo- uncertainty. Again, this fact can be seen as behavioural
thesis that ‘direct neural evidence supporting this hypothesis is precision predicted by degree of cortical competition.
currently lacking’. They purport to remedy this situation. They The third result is the most impressive. They argue that
showed subjects randomly oriented grids while doing brain the visual system tracks its own uncertainty. It is well
scans (fMRI), focusing on early visual cortical areas (V1,V2, known that subjects’ orientation judgements are biased
V3). Subjects were required to rotate a bar to match the orien- towards oblique and against cardinal orientations (a different
tations they saw, giving the experimenters a behavioural sort of oblique effect). They found that when cortical uncer-
measure of precision of response. Using fMRI, they were able tainty was high, the bias towards oblique orientations was
to decode the orientations subjects were seeing. They measured stronger than when cortical uncertainty was low, suggesting
the ‘cortical uncertainty’ of orientations in an individual per- that the visual system monitors its own uncertainty on a trial-

ception. The measure they adopted is not easy to describe in by-trial basis, relying more on bias when cortical uncertainty
