citly in perceptual systems. A major problem with realist et al. [2]: ‘Most Bayesian models of cognition are defined at
theories in which Bayesian inference literally takes place in Marr's [71] “computational level,” characterizing the problem
the brain is that the kind of Bayesian computations that people are solving and its ideal solution. Such models make
would have to be done are known to be computationally no direct claims about cognitive processes—what Marr
intractable [66]. So, any realist version of Bayesianism will termed the “algorithmic level””’.
have to tell us what exactly is supposed to be involved in the In sum, the Bayesian perspective is powerful, but it does
computations. not require a realist or algorithmic interpretation. Instrumen-
Michael Rescorla argues for a realist version of Bayesianism talist versions of Bayesianism as giving explanations at
in which priors are explicitly represented [64,67]. He does not Marr’s computational level are well supported and are not
say explicitly that likelihoods are explicitly represented and committed to probabilistic representations.

that the multiplication of one by the other is real. Rescorla’s
argument is based on the fact that we have good Bayesian
models of how priors evolve in response to changing environ-

mental conditions. For example, such models predict that if one 8. Conclusion
exposes a subject to stimulation in which luminance and stiff- My proposal is that competition among unconscious represen-
ness are correlated, the priors will change so that stiff objects tations yields conscious representations through winner-takes-
are seen as more luminant. And, this prediction is born out. all processes of elimination or merging. The competition
Further, the ‘light comes from overhead’ prior can be changed framework does not require any particular task or cognitive
by experience. Overall, he says, a realist interpretation yields categorization and in that respect is better than the sampling
explanatory generalizations that would be missed on an instru- framework. The process can be considered Bayesian but
mentalist interpretation. The principle is that the best only on an instrumentalist interpretation pitched at Marr’s
explanation of successful prediction is that the entities referred computational level rather than the algorithmic level.
to in the theories that generate the prediction really exist and to Perhaps, the strongest challenge to my account is Bayesian