also provide a better fit to neural data [37]. A different source of doubt about dissociation is the follow-

The availability of these models challenges the argument ing line of thought: if working memory is capacity-unlimited,
from post-cuing to overflow by offering an alternative to the then all items can be represented there, and therefore, all
slot model on which the argument’s capacity calculation items should be represented also in perception—so, perception
depends. Moreover, Gross & Flombaum [38] point to various cannot be sparser than it is thought to be. But from capacity
ways, drawn from the literature, that Lamme and colleagues’ being a certain size, nothing yet follows about how much
results might be explained from the non-slot perspective. The is used on some occasion. In particular, having a capacity-
timing of the cue can affect, for example, the prevalence of unlimited store does not guarantee that all items get encoded
correspondence (or, swap) errors [39-41], the cue’s ability in that store. As the next section will underscore, on at least
to indicate inputs that can be treated as noise [42], and one formulation, overflow and the rejection of the access
the redeployment of attentional resources that selectively requirement require only that, on some occasion, more is in
protect representations from degradation and interference fact consciously seen than is accessed, whatever the capacities.
[43]. Performance limits may thus be explained without Limited capacity comes into the arguments regarding access,
hypothesizing a capacity limit—a limit to the number of richness and overflow only as setting an upper bound on
items working memory can represent. (Indeed, even if one what is encoded into working memory. Abandoning the
adds a capacity limit to such models [44], their other resources assumption of limited capacity removes the upper bound
for explaining performance continue to provide the basis for and thus undermines arguments that depend on it. But it
challenging overflow arguments, so long as the capacity is does not tell us how many items are in fact encoded in any
sufficiently high.) store. Unlimited-capacity working memory is in itself neutral

The study of working memory continues to evolve (see on questions of access, richness and overflow. Analogous
[45,46] for recent defences of discrete slot models). But suppose remarks hold for sensory memory’s capacity and what in fact
some such alternative to slot models pans out, so that the over- gets encoded there on any particular occasion.
flow argument is undermined, not just challenged. We now Consider Sperling’s [6] results. Briefly presented with a