meaning access. Accordingly, as discussed above, any
description of the experienced content outside focus involves
A-consciousness as well as P-consciousness of the same content.

Of course, according to the definitions of A-consciousness
above, we can only report that which is A-conscious, so that


the lack of report of P-conscious states at least in others is, in so that all 12 letters are experienced phenomenally, yet only a | 3 |

principle, not direct evidence for the lack of P-consciousness subdivision (those that are attended) is accessed. The argu-
per se. This argument could be taken as a defence of the view ment for this interpretation seems to be that the experience a
that one may, in fact, be experiencing all conversations in of ‘having seen the initial letters’ that most participants’ s
the room. report must be based on the experience of each separate a
This latter ‘defence’, however, does not come without letter that, however, cannot be reported. 2.
cost. That is, the view would bring all measures of However, just as in the case of the everyday life example 5
P-consciousness into doubt as they all (be they verbal reports, above, there is an intuitively plausible alternative interpret- =
button presses or other kinds of voluntary or involuntary ation: participants experienced, and only had access to, =
behaviour), in fact, are measures of A-consciousness only. If unclear and ‘blurry’ representations of letters. When partici- “2
there are no behaviours which could be taken as evidence pants focus on particular memory contents, this content is ‘©
for P-conscious states (and not only A-consciousness), and further processed and as a consequence made more accessible = -s
if P- and A-consciousness can be dissociated, the view that and at the same time more clearly experienced. As in the =
there may be an experience of all conversations without everyday life example, there is no argument why the case =
any report or evidence hereof seems to be a view that must represent an empirical dissociation between access -
makes an empirical science of consciousness highly difficult. and experience rather than a parallel shift from weak to stron- 2