(4) immediate report instruction in repeated inattentional a plywood board or door) temporarily blocks the subject’s
blindness experiments demonstrates that inattentional view [19]. The failure of participants to notice these changes
blindness is a perceptual deficit; is all the more surprising because built into many of the dem-

(5) to accommodate and explain repeated inattentional onstrations (especially those with images that flash on and
blindness and massive change blindness, theories of off) is the task instruction to pay attention to and detect
rich awareness downgrade phenomenology. changes to the scene (e.g. [17]). Therefore, in many cases of

change blindness, the inability to report the change is not

limited by a general lack of attention.
2. Distinguishing change blindness and Do these failures to notice changes mean that awareness is
. . . not in fact as rich and detailed as people seem to experience?
inattentional blindness Not necessarily. First, many of the changes people fail to

The claim that in-the-moment experiences have rich phenom- report are small and irrelevant to the meaning of the scene.
enology is challenged by two types of evidence: change Failing to notice some tree branches disappearing or the
blindness and inattentional blindness. Although often dis- colour of a person’s shirt changing generally has no conse-
cussed together, these two types of ‘blindness’ need to be quences for further cognitive processing. Thus, missing
distinguished. small and irrelevant details is not convincing evidence

Change blindness is the failure to notice changes to a against rich awareness. Second, a failure to report a change
visual scene, even if those changes happen right before could be caused not by a failure to represent the scene
one’s eyes (e.g. [8]; see figure 1 for an example from [16]). richly enough, but a failure to compare the representations
Change blindness has been demonstrated in dozens of differ- before and after the change’ [21]. Third, a failure to report