perceptual [22,50]; for example, in Simons & Chabris [50] of 500 milliseconds. Five hundred milliseconds after the circles
participants were required to track rapid dynamic events (e.g. had disappeared, participants were probed about the colour of
ball passes) and keep mental tallies of them. the task-relevant (irrelevant) circle and then about the colour
The consideration of task relevance as a potentially criti- of the task-irrelevant (relevant) circle (figure 6). The order of
cal factor in IB, is thus likely to turn the overflow debate on the questions was counterbalanced between participants.
its head by placing the locus of selection for report in categ- Given this set-up, up to 25% of the participants, who cor-
orization (i.e. in the activation of semantic representations) rectly reported the colour of the circle at the relevant location
rather than in attentional selection. This opens the possibility failed to report its colour in the irrelevant condition (indepen-
that phenomenal consciousness ‘overflows’ reportability dent of the order of probing). Additional (yet unpublished)
because the irrelevant stimuli were simply not (or at least data from our laboratory shows that increasing the number
not sufficiently) categorized and hence cannot be spoken of trials on which participants report on the relevant dimension
(or thought) of. As we will see, this casts doubt on whether quickly increases ‘blindness’ rates.” Similar results have been
the fact that stimuli go unreported is evidence that they recently reported from different laboratories. For example, a
were not phenomenally experienced, as is often assumed. striking example is a recent study by Chen ef al. [31], who,
To test the possibility that knowledge activation and con- using a similar type of experimental procedure, reported that
scious awareness can only be dissociated on the basis of their one-third of the participants who are tracking a ball for half a
sensitivity to task relevance, Eitam and colleagues created a minute do not remember its colour. To summarize, these find-
situation—labelled irrelevance-induced ‘blindness’, in which ings supply evidence that people show ‘blindness-like’

resources are clearly abundant—simple stimuli are presented behaviour, even when their WM and attention system is free


500 ms

what was the orientation