stimuli, switches between 4 and 21% oxygen, did not alter primary sensory neurons. -
the relationship between interneuron activity and global While several studies together have shown that sensory 2
motor command states. Hence, the shape of the attractor mani- stimulation does not produce qualitative changes in inter- S
fold was largely unaffected. However, an effective sensory to neuron relationships to motor command state [19,20,26], w
motor transformation was observed, as the stimuli entrained subtle effects were reported [20,26], the consequences of ¥
the instantaneous phase on the action command cycle: the which remain to be explored. Such small quantitative altera 5
reverse motor command state occurred with increased or tions could be signatures of or even underlie observed ©
decreased probabilities at high versus low oxygen, respectively changes in behavioural state transition probability or other par- =
[20,37]. These observations were surprising, because oxygen ameters of locomotion, such as crawling speed. One case in
sensory neurons directly synapse onto AVA, AVE and RIB, which subtle modulations of ongoing behaviour-related
which still show strong motor command signals but lacked dynamics have been shown to implement a sensorimotor
purely sensory evoked activity patterns; these neurons, in transformation is in the interneuron RIA. Two seminal studies
fact, together receive a large portion of synaptic output from showed that the RIA neurite has three compartments with
O, sensory neurons. Moreover, only a few sensory-tuned inter- independent calcium dynamics, that two of these compart-
neurons were observed in these recordings: RIG reported in ments receive input from motor neurons regarding the
[20] and AUA and RMG reported in [37]. Calcium imaging worm’s head-bend direction while the third receives sensory
of AVA, AVE and RIB in freely moving animals exposed to input, and that sensory input modulates the motor-related
oxygen shifts confirmed that these neuronal classes retain dynamics in RIA to ultimately bias the worm’s head-bend
their strict tuning to motor state under stimulus conditions [45,46]. This sensorimotor programme allows the worm to
[20] (box 1). These results showed that the attractor manifold steer towards an odour source [46]. Whether such compart-
is largely robust to sensory stimulation. Similar preserved be- mentalized calcium dynamics are common in the worm
haviour-correlated interneuron activities were observed in remains unknown. Whether or not compartmentalization is
freely moving animals, during salt gradient navigation [19] widespread, it remains unclear how such activity modulations
and in other neurons in different oxygen environments [26], might act on the population of recurrently connected inter-
despite effective sensory-induced changes in behaviour in neurons that underlies forward/reverse locomotion switches.