observing significant differences in other aspects of diversity classes, as previously observed in natural [32,53] and salinized
and trait composition. Overall, these results support our rivers [54,55]. These trait categories are probably key to coping
third hypothesis (H3), indicating divergent trajectories of with the stressful environment of saline rivers [31]. However,
change between salinized rivers, which resulted in novel we found shorter lifespan organisms in salinized rivers,
communities [13], and diluted rivers, whose communities which contrasts not only with our patterns for diluted and
resembled those of natural rivers with the same conductivity. natural rivers but also with previous studies performed on
Abiotic filtering is often considered one of the major forces natural and salinized locations [53,55]. In our study, saliniza-
determining biological responses to stress [4]. In our study, we tion could have favoured short lifespan organisms in the
observed a consistent richness and diversity decline, and absence of better suited organisms because of their rapid repro-
strong compositional changes as salinity increased, which ductive cycles. Alternatively, it could have reflected a trait
can be attributed to increasing abiotic filtering. However, syndrome, where an other correlated trait explains the success
these changes arose in divergent trajectories when comparing of the organisms colonizing salinized rivers.
natural and salinized rivers, which supports the role of disper- The fact that the studied salinized sites were relatively
sal-related processes in structuring salinized communities distant from naturally saline rivers could have favoured
[12]. Generally, organisms show a differential capacity to toler- their colonization by a mix of opportunistic species and
ate osmotic stress as a result of specialized physiological and saline specialists with good dispersion capacities. Our ana-
life-history traits [47,48], confirmed by experiments in the lyses revealed that some taxa that are highly abundant in
absence of competition [8,49]. Thus, while organisms inhab- naturally saline rivers (genera Ochthebius and Nebrioporus)
iting freshwaters need to actively take up ions to maintain were absent from salinized rivers, perhaps owing to limited
metabolic functions, taxa tolerating mineralized waters dispersion [56,57] or other biotic factors [50]. However,
need to match their internal concentrations to external salinity although it remains unknown if organisms already estab-
or even actively excrete ions when salinity is sufficiently high. lished at salinized sites could also act as a biological barrier
Nonetheless, salt-tolerant organisms are also able to cope with for saline specialists, this possibility seems unlikely given
freshwater conditions, as observed experimentally [50]. Diver- the reduced competition pressure in meso- and hypersaline
sity declined sharply above conductivities of 5-20 mS cm ', environments [2]. Contrary to previous findings [52,54,55],