within arid regions with evaporitic outcrops, which consti- chemical stressors can result in direction-dependent effects along a
tute abundant sources of potential saline specialist colonizers. the same stress gradient, where trait-filtering and dispersal- 2.
Our study is the first to our knowledge to compare the eco- related processes have differential roles in community assembly. 5
logical effects of bidirectional anthropogenic _ salinity The approach presented here provides empirical and conceptual =
modifications across a broad osmotic gradient, and one of the insights that can help in anticipating ecological effects of global =
few examples in the wider context of stressors and systems change and improving environmental management. Ss
[58]. Nonetheless, our data are limited owing to the small avail- s
able number of rivers primarily affected by dilution or Data accessibility Supplementary Information S2 in the electronic s
oe . supplementary material includes the R code and data used to repro- >
salinization, and not by other human impacts, and because duce the analysis presented here. =
quantifying the precise magnitude of the salinity change Authors’ contributions. C.G.-C., D.S.-F, M.C.-A., N.B., A.M. and J.V. §
requires pre-disturbance data, which is typically unavailable. conceived the ideas and designed the methodology. All authors col- >
Particularly, the fact that all salinized sites were concentrated lected macroinvertebrate and water samples. N.O. and AS.
within the same basin (Llobregat River basin) could have performed isotopic analysis fo identity sites atected by salinization. a
to salinization. Future research using manipulative exper- C. led the writing of the manuscript. All authors contributed critically =
iments should be performed to overcome these limitations to data interpretation and manuscript reviewing, and gave final 2
and compare against the observational patterns presented here. approval for publication. s
Two major management implications arise from this Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests. S
study. Firstly, salinization may cause less predictable biologi- Funding. C.G.-C. is supported by a ‘Juan de la Cierva-Formacién’
cal responses compared with dilution, depending on the research contract (MINECO, FJCI-2015-25785) and D.S.-F. by two

post-doctoral contracts funded by the Universidad de Castilla-La
Mancha and the University of Murcia. This research was also par-
tially supported by the Catalan Government project of Mineralogia
