(b) Emotion recognition in human-—robot interaction

Emotion recognition methods used by social robots were
extensively surveyed by Yan et al. [1] and McColl et al. [17].
Here, we only considered the prominent works that per-
formed the recognition task by automatically extracting
features from visual cues, and integrated the developed

(a) Personality prediction in human—robot interaction method onto a robotic platform.
Incorporating human personality analysis to adapt a robot's The categorical model of emotion has been the most
behaviour for engaging a person in an activity is becoming widely adopted approach in the literature. Cid ef al. [18]
an important component for social robots [10-12]. One pro- developed an emotion recognition system by extracting fea-
minent work by Rahbar et al. [13] focused on the prediction tures based on the facial action coding system (FACS) [19],
of the extroversion trait only, when a participant was interact- and implemented it on a robotic head, Muecas [20], for an
ing with the humanoid iCub [14], a robot shaped like a 4 imitation task. For emotion recognition, they first applied a
year-old child. They extracted both individual features and preprocessing step to the face image taken by Muecas to nor-
interpersonal features. The individual features were associ- malize the illumination and remove the noise, and highlight
ated with the participant’s amount of movement. The the facial features. From the processed face, a set of edge-
interpersonal features modelled synchrony and dominance based features were extracted and modelled to detect a total
between the movements of iCub and the participant, as of 11 AUs. The detected AUs were used to represent the
well as proxemics features (i.e. the distance between iCub four basic emotions of happiness, sadness, fear and anger,
and the participant). They achieved the best recognition according to a rule-based approach, and were mapped on
results by fusing individual and interpersonal features. the Muecas robot to display the inferred emotion in real
Research has shown that humans tend to be attracted time. Boucenna ef al. [21] used similar visual features for
to characters who have either matching personality traits (simi- enabling the robot to learn facial expressions of emotion