PUBLISHING © 2019 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


from the concept of trust and explaining how it can be oper- commitment requires that one actually believes that one has | 2 |

ationalized (see §2). We then identify a range of contexts in taken on certain obligations, the sense of commitment can
which the sense of commitment may be particularly impor- be decoupled from beliefs about obligations—i.e. one may
tant in human-robot interaction (see §3). Finally, we feel a sense of commitment to performing a joint action
discuss possibilities for designing social robots which elicit even if one does not consciously believe that one has a com-
a sense of commitment on the part of human users (see §4). mitment to doing so. In the example above, Giuliana may not

believe that she is under any obligation to help, but she may
nevertheless feel a sense of commitment which, in fact, leads

2. What? her to do so. Indeed, she may feel committed even if she did
. al‘ not believe that she had any obligations at all with respect to = >
The concept of a sense of commitment is closely related to the Sam, e.g. because Sam was a robot. 5
concept of trust, insofar as both refer to psychological mech- These three features make it possible to operationalize the = =
anisms that help to sustain agents’ motivation to contribute sense of commitment in terms of agents’ motivation to per- >
to joint action. Unlike trust, however, the sense of commit- form actions. They also highlight the possibility that this _
ment is linked directly to motivation. It has been motivation can be modulated by cues that one’s partner = =:
hypothesized that the sense of commitment is a mechanism values the joint action and may be relying on one to make — 5!
which stabilizes agents’ motivation to contribute to joint one’s contribution [19]. On this basis, recent research has = >
actions (and more generally to others’ goals), leading them begun to investigate the cues and situational factors that =
to persist and to remain focused in the face of tempting may trigger/modulate such a sense of commitment. One = &