basic expressions, those studies showed that the recognition

Our goal was to compensate for these issues in the final
autonomous version of the system.

In previous research, we analysed human-robot inter-
actions with an extroverted and an introverted robot and
found that people enjoyed interacting more with the robot
that exhibited an extroverted personality [10,12]. Therefore,
for the live MAPTRAITS-HRI demonstrator, we used the rates for expressions such as fear or disgust can be as low
extroverted robot personality from our previous study [12], as in the range of 40-50% ° ; :
which displayed hand gestures and talked relatively fast As a result, we decided to consider only the expressions of
and loud. happiness, surprise and sadness. We opted for an FACS-based

The conversation consisted of five parts: (1) Greeting. The recognition of those expressions to address the possibility that
robot initiates the interaction by greeting the person and participants display those expressions only partially; for
making small talk, and asks the person about her name and example, a participant instructed to display the expression
occupation, and how the day has been. The robot provides of surprise may display it only with eyebrow raising (AU
verbal and nonverbal feedback via simple comments (e.g. 1+ 2), overlooking the lip part (AU 25) and/or the jaw
‘That sounds amazing! /Exciting!”). (2) Task. The robot asks drop (AU 26) movements. We focused on a total of seven
the person to bring her face closer so that he can learn her AUs, namely, inner brow raiser (AUD, outer brow Talser
face. The robot provides verbal feedback (e.g. ‘I have now (AU2), brow lower (AU4), cheek raiser (AU6), lip corner
learned your face/I could not learn your face, let’s try puller (AU12), lips parted (AU25) and jaw drop (AU26). For
again.’). (3) Emotions. The robot asks the person a personal the automatic AU detection, Sariyanidi et al. [33] highlighted
question, i.e. ‘Is there something you would like to change the importance of two practices: (i) combining shape and