behalf of the robot. The rationale behind this procedure was were coded according to a scheme which was developed based
simply based on the fact that NAO’s hands are not suitable for on two taxonomies of behaviour. First, Mehrabian [29] has intro-
picking up cards from the table and for turning them around. duced a taxonomy of verbal and nonverbal behaviours which
The robot would therefore explain to participants that its arms are associated with attitudes and reactivity towards an interaction
were too short to pick up the cards. It instructed them in each partner [29]. It includes behaviours such as facial expressions
turn which cards they were supposed to turn (e.g. ‘please turn (e.g. smiles), gestures (e.g. nodding, head shakes), touch of one’s
the left card in the second row.’). To keep the trials as similar own body, eye contact, body signs of comfort and relaxation as
as possible, the cards would be distributed as shown in well as verbal utterances. Complementing this taxonomy, we
figure 1 for every trial. referred to Patterson’s work [30]. This encompassed a taxonomy
The NAO robot was operated by a trained experimenter via of nonverbal behaviours, including distance, gaze, touch, posture,
Wizard-of-Oz, meaning the robot appeared as if he would func- movements, self- and object manipulation, pupil reactions, and
tion autonomously and the participants did not know that the several other categories. Taken together, these two taxonomies
experimenter in fact controlled the robot. The experimenter formed the theoretical basis for the video coding scheme to analyse
would sit behind a partition panel during the interaction task. our qualitative data. To build a baseline, four randomly selected
A webcam made sure that the experimenter could see what videos of the interaction with the NAO robot were inspected by
the participants were doing. The different behavioural response two research assistants as well as two research interns from our

options were pre-programmed in CHOREGRAPHE and_ the laboratory. They compared the taxonomies suggested in the


literature with the behaviours that were displayed during the
memory card game. This was relevant to reduce the taxonomies
to categories relevant for the given video data. In some cases, sev-
eral different behaviours were summarized under a category, for
example social behaviour towards the NAO encompassed beha-