predator activity during the night have practically excluded birds change their dialect to cope with the noisy environments = &
the gazelles from these areas, rendering them useless as [83] and males responded more strongly to current than to his- =
ecological corridors for this species [49,68]. torical songs [84]. Such behavioural divergence between bird =
Humans do not only modify animal-movement populations can lead to genetic differentiation despite the fact —
behaviour by introducing predators into the landscape. In that no physical barrier separates them from one other. 3
many cases, humans themselves are regarded as the preda- Another phenomenon that may induce behavioural divergence BS
tors. While this is of course evident in areas that suffer and generate LIF is habituation and the resulting dependence
from high levels of hunting or poaching (e.g. [69]), some rec- of wildlife populations on human resources. In Israel, commen-
reational activities also modify animals’ landscapes of fear sal foxes have access to abundant resources and consequently
and constrain their movements [70,71]. are characterized by high densities, smaller home-range size,
So far, this section has focused predominantly on the heavier offspring, and higher recruitment rates [85]. Although
effects of predation risk on animals’ movement patterns. individuals in these populations emigrate out into the natural
This is mainly owing to the fact that most known examples surroundings, they are unable to survive in the wild [86,87]
of interspecific interactions that limit and shape movement and with little evidence of any immigration, they appear to
are centred on predator—prey interactions. However, other be isolated from the fox populations in the surrounding matrix.
processes of interspecific avoidance inductions exist. One of A similar example comes from Switzerland, where allelic
these processes is interference competition. We know that diversity and genetic differentiation were quantified between
many species alter their movement and habitat choice beha- urban and rural populations of red foxes, Vulpes vulpes,
viours in order to avoid superior competitors. For instance, around Zurich [88]. The researchers found that the urban
the presence of wolves limits the distribution and abundance fox populations, which at the time of the test were approxi-
of coyotes by altering the coyotes’ dispersal rates [72], chee- mately 15 years old, were differentiated genetically from
tahs actively move away from areas inhabited by lions and nearby rural populations. The observed differentiation
hyenas [73], and arctic foxes avoid areas with red foxes, could not be explained by the geographical arrangement of
thus being excluded from breeding in low altitude habitats the populations because genetic differentiation between two
[74]. Thus, interference competition can lead to population rural populations was much lower despite the fact that the