requires out-of-sample testing or additional streams of data and fitness [14,15]. Although movement data have been used
such as camera or mortality data [66,74]. to infer links between broadly defined behaviour and fitness

Where movement data are available for a large fraction of [12,76], quantifying the fitness landscape (i.e. spatially explicit
a population, network theory can be applied directly to the predictions of fitness costs and benefits) is a tantalizing pro-
tracking data without relying on assumptions regarding spect that would allow unparalleled insights into the
how spatial covariates influence space use, patch definition mechanisms underlying the spatial behaviour of animals
or resistance [62]. For instance, applying network theoretical and, theoretically, allow maximally effective spatial conserva-
approaches to a grid overlaid on the movement landscape tion strategies. The ingredients for deriving fitness
allows empirical definition of patches and corridors based landscapes seem to be present (i.e. spatial predictions of be-
on emergent properties of the network directly (i.e. assump- havioural metrics that have theoretical links to fitness).
tion-free definition). Most usefully, this can serve to identify However, a number of key challenges exist stemming from
indirect connectedness (e.g. circuitous connecting paths). the fact that the remote capture of movement data limits infer-
Such an approach avoids misspecification that can occur ence on the nuances of the behaviours characterized from
where subjective means are used to differentiate patches tracking data and their fitness effects. Developing the opportu-
from non-patches or optimality approaches are used to nities and addressing the limitations of tracking data to
define corridors [62]. Given the reliance on empirical data, facilitate a greater understanding of the links between fitness
outputs from such approaches provide a robust estimation and behaviour are critical if movement ecology is to provide
of the structural value of an area, from which unexpected fea- robust information on ecological and evolutionary dynamics
tures of the movement landscape can emerge. However, such to inform conservation. Deriving a fitness value of the land-
empirically derived definitions are conditioned on the explicit scape from movement is the most challenging of the four
sample analysed, meaning sample design is critical to the metrics we describe, but also the metric which offers the dee-
derivation of general conclusions. pest inference. Broadly, fitness valuation of movement can

occur by assigning fitness contributions to specific spatio-tem-