40 days in the new exclosure. The initial week of vulnerability


followed by essentially no further predation for the bilbies feel more secure on moon-lit nights where they have a 6 |

with prior exposure to predators suggests that a soft release, better ability to detect predators visually [44].

whereby animals were slowly acclimated or guarded in their Given the ability to discriminate novel predators from
first days following release, might be an effective strategy to various controls, the question of coexistence hinges on the
enhance survival. In addition, cat-exposed bilbies were more ability of naive prey to develop an effective antipredator
likely to share burrows than control bilbies, a finding which response. If prey species have some ability to respond to pre-
suggests that these modestly social animals may engage in a dators, we expect that they will be able to coexist with their
social antipredator behaviour following experience with predators. The fact that so many reintroductions have failed
predators. The survival difference is important because the when predator-naive individuals have previously been
immediate period following release is the critical time for released (e.g. [37]), suggests that we might not expect that
survival of reintroduced animals. Thus, in situ exposure to either bilbies or bettongs has an effective response. However,
predators significantly increased immediate survival. if responses are effective, there is hope for longer-term ==

coexistence outside the constraints of a fenced reserve. The = &
challenge of creating appropriate behavioural responses de

4. Conclusion and future research novo is non-trivial if the animals do not have it within =
We have shown that two species, that were either driven their capacity to marshal one. Our current results with bil- = 5!
extinct by feral cats and foxes (mainland bettongs) or had bies are hopeful in this regard. If, however, there are too = =
their populations drastically reduced by cats and foxes many predators, on-going predator management may be =