
4. Discussion between groups of kin based on lines of inheritance and des-
Our results suggest that whether consanguineal, affinal, matri- cent, most obviously between matrilineal and patrilineal kin.
lateral or patrilateral, when someone is seen as kin, they are Despite being nominally patrilocal and patrilineal, we find ==>
more likely to be named as providing support. Among those matrilateral kin to be present relatively often (32% of people = 5
who are seen as kin, the ordering of relatedness terms have at least one co-resident matrilateral relative). While we = =
(whether genetic or affinal) does suggest a lessening of sup- had expected that laterality might influence the propensity =
port with more distant kin, as has been seen in many of kin to provide support, we instead find no strong evidence __
primates and in humans [11,48], although the differences of greater solicitude from matrilateral than patrilateral = =
between the relatedness levels are generally not significant in relations in either village. Instead, in agreement with our find- 5!
our ERGMs. Instead, the clearer difference between the var- ings for affinal kin, the particular category of kin involved = 5
ious categories of kin is in their availability, both generally, does not seem to be especially important in structuring =
and for specific groups of people. Those residing in their these dyadic support ties. Still, the fact that we observe essen- = &
natal village tend to have many more close consanguineal rela- tially bilateral support is in some sense surprising, given that iat
tives present, and because of local marriage patterns, these this is a male-biased kinship system. While in this setting 3
tend to be patrilateral relatives. Those who are not residing there may be a bias towards males in inheritance and the reck-
natally—who are more often women—have many fewer con- oning of descent, supportive relationships with matrilateral 3
sanguineal relatives to draw upon, and so rely more heavily on relatives continue to be important. So, while these delinea- S
whichever kin are present, affinal or otherwise. tions of kin may help organize some cultural practices (such
Through marriage and residence patterns, kinship sys- as inheritance), they do not imply that relationships with
tems structure which kin are most likely to be co-resident. kin from either side are neglected or negligible [54].
Those residing in their natal village might seem to be at an While we have so far emphasized the distinctions between
obvious advantage with their greater reserve of relatives (as matrilateral and patrilateral relatives and between consangui-
seen in many non-human primates), but we find that the neal and affinal relatives, it is important to note that these
flexibility facilitated by this extension of kinship means that categories are often merged within persons. Close kin mar-