explain the observed patterns of associations. The hierarchical with homologous recombination in Actinobacteria or in
clustering thus underlines the diversity and subtype speci- Buchnera [49,51], and recombination is probably not the
ficity of CRISPR-Cas systems and how they are preferably main function of RecG [18]. RecF is involved in DSB-RS
associated with either RecBCD or AddAB. only in specific genetic backgrounds and is mostly implicated

In Firmicutes, we observe fewer significant interactions. in the repair of single-strand breaks, those produced by type I
They are dominated by the negative epistatic interaction systems. These can become DSB upon passage of a replication
between RuvC (present in few species) and RecU (present fork. Finally, Cas and DSB-RS are part of a larger whole and
in most species). To better highlight the complex network some statistical associations between them may result from
of these interactions, we plotted on the Firmicutes phyloge- interactions of these systems with a third partner in the bac-
netic tree the distribution of the subtype I-B system and the terial cell. The observation that our results capture previous
DSB-RS components with which it is significantly associated experimental results, that DSB-RS are more associated with
(electronic supplementary material, figure S4). Subtype I-B Cas subtypes than the average bacterial gene and the fact
systems are rarely associated with SbcEF, which in turn that both types of systems interact with DNA suggests that
are rarely associated with RuvC, which in turn is mostly many of these links directly involve components of DSB-RS.
present in genomes that lack RecU. Identifying direct mol- Given the number of significant associations between
ecular interactions in this complex network will require CRISPR-Cas and DNA repair systems, we propose a scenario
experimental work. for the impact of these associations on the distribution of

CRISPR-Cas systems (figure 4). CRISPR-Cas systems are sub-
ject to frequent horizontal gene transfer. When they are
introduced in a novel bacterium, their effect on fitness will

4. Conclusion depend on a number of factors, such as their expression,
We observed significant associations between DSB-RS and their production cost, the impact of phage predation in popu-