bonded pair and associated immatures; some multi-male World monkey species, including the baboons (Papio spp.)
groups occur; the ‘pair’ defends a territory; males participate and macaques (Macaca spp.). This is a diverse group of
extensively in parental care (siamangs, but not gibbons); the species that, with rare exception, exhibit female philopatry
social bond is also a preferential mating partnership, and male dispersal [63]. Females form multigenerational,
though extra-pair copulations and paternities do occur [55]. matrilineal kin networks characterized by close affiliation,

Like the socially monogamous platyrrhines, replacement of tolerance, and cooperation within kin groups, and compe-
breeding individuals largely occurs via immigration from tition for resources between kin groups. The strongest and
outside groups. This includes not only replacement of most enduring affiliative bonds emerge among the closest
deceased individuals and forcible takeovers but also volun- maternal relatives (i.e. sisters and mother-daughter dyads)
tary abandonment of partners [56,57]. The frequency of [64-66]. These relationships take shape early in life, thus an
‘divorce’ results in a relatively high rate of turnover among individual's concept of kin most likely originates by reference
breeding pairs, a fact which has led researchers to reject the to those that affiliate most closely with its mother [67,68].

label ‘nuclear families’, as many immatures may be unrelated Matrilines are a key scaffold for the development of status
to at least one of the adults with whom they reside. In both relationships within cercopithecine groups [69], a pattern that
siamangs (Symphalangus syndactylus) and white-handed has also been observed in distantly related white-faced capu-
gibbons (Hylobates lar), genetic evidence suggests shorter dis- chins (Cebus capucinus) [70], ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta)
persal distances for males versus females, such that males are [71] and spotted hyenas (Crocuta crocuta) [72,73]. In many cer-
more likely to move into adjacent, or even overlapping, terri- copithecines, females inherit their mothers’ ranks following
tories to their natal territory [58,59]. Replacement from within strict rules, the prototypical pattern being one in which a
a group is rare. All known cases involve males, though it is female’s daughters earn ranks immediately below hers, and
unclear whether or how they were related to either of the the youngest daughter ascends to the highest rank among
original pair [56,60,61]. Whether any kind of resource inheri- her siblings [74]. Ranks are evident and are recognized long
tance occurs in hylobatids is, therefore, ‘up in the air’, but before females are capable of competing individually [75].