relation [73,74]. Larger-bodied species may thus be better some other primates, such as baboons, as well [80]. Therefore,
able to predict population abundance on an annual scale in some long-lived primates, the persistence of social and
than smaller-bodied species. However, this predictive advan- material capital may have been stable enough over a few gen-
tage may well be offset by the fact that the gap between early erations to predict individuals’ adult experiences based on
life and adulthood will be longer for larger-bodied species. their childhood social positions, although only to a limited
So, larger-bodied species may be unlikely to evolve early- extent. Such predictions may be more likely to have shaped
life effects tailored to future ecological conditions (low Bs) our species’ developmental systems than predictions about
and to future population abundance (higher Bs, but probably ecological and population variables, which appear to be
not high enough to offset their longer lifespan). Instead, we even more unpredictable. Current research, however, focuses __
consider it more likely that larger-bodied species tailor their on the dynamics of either ecological or social variables in iso- =:
development to their internal expected future somatic lation. Future work could explore how the statistics of non- 5!
decline, ie. an internal PAR [18,26]. Irrespective of body social environments might affect the evolution of social struc- 5
size, the fact that autocorrelation tends to be higher in popu- ture; as is suggested, for instance, by the observation that bird =
lation variables than environmental variables suggests that species that inhabit more unpredictable environments = &
researchers should consider population dynamics as selection (characterized by higher among-year variability in precipi- iat
pressures in the evolution of early-life effects. tation) are more likely to breed cooperatively, potentially as =
a strategy to buffer against risk [81]. &
S
(c) Intergenerational transmission of resources =
Sociologists, economists and anthropologists have a long- (d) Lived individual experiences -
standing interest in intergenerational mobility, ie. the Researchers have also quantified environmental statistics
extent to which social and material capital (i.e. resources) is over short timescales, capturing a segment of an individual’s
correlated across generations. If this correlation is 1, parents’ lifespan in great detail. Biologists, for instance, have used
resources perfectly forecast their children’s. If it is 0, each gen- wearable devices (typically, animal-borne cameras) to register
eration is born anew. Income data across countries over the the visual experiences of animals in natural habitats [82-84].