tentious [15-19]. This section has challenged those who to calibrate their phenotypic strategies. Indeed, the research-
advocate such claims to specify which parameters of the ers found no evidence that they did. Unlike Costantini
environment they assume organisms to be adapting to, and et al.’s [13] study of zebra finches, deer exposed to poor
show that these parameters do have the right kind of temporal early conditions did not fare better if conditions were also
stability. Similarly, when researchers make claims that some poor in adulthood; this ‘match-mismatch’ pattern is often
experience (e.g. parental behaviour) is a cue of some environ- seen as a key prediction of external PAR hypotheses about
mental parameter (e.g. harshness), they need to refer to data early-life effects (see below).
from which the reliability of such a cueing relationship can In a longitudinal study of Assamese macaques, Berghanel
be computed. In short, researchers need to specify and justify et al. [99] studied environmental statistics relevant to both cue
the assumed linkages in terms of the roadmap for the evol- reliability and temporal autocorrelation. They showed that
ution of adaptive early-life effects shown in figure 1. maternal stress hormone levels covaried with current environ-

In fact, the situation may be even more complex than mental conditions; hence, maternal stress hormones are a cue
figure 1 implies. For many social parameters (e.g. relative to current conditions that the developing fetus could use.
strength), the social environment may respond dynamically However, the researchers also found essentially no temporal
to the phenotype that the focal individual adopts. For autocorrelation in environmental parameters such as rainfall
instance, an animal who competes successfully over resources or food abundance. Thus, environmental conditions in early
may develop a larger body, increasing the probability that life could not provide information about these aspects of the
conspecifics will defer in future conflicts, with potential environment in adulthood. The researchers did find that
associated gains in social status. Or, an animal who success- maternal stress hormone exposure caused accelerated
fully manipulates the information used by conspecifics to growth at the expense of skill acquisition and immune func-
guide their behaviour may achieve relatively high fitness, tion, suggesting that the monkeys responded potentially
increasing the proportion of skilled mind-readers in future adaptively to early conditions. However, given the lack of
generations [93]. The social strategies of animals thus co- temporal autocorrelation, this cannot have been because
determine the statistics of their own social environment, not they were using maternal stress hormones as a cue to future