
regarding genome editing technologies are thus far underre- 5. Conclusion
presented in the academic literature, including the public Genome editing has a broad range of possible applications in
concern for equity of access to the potential benefits of research animals, farm animals and wild animals. Despite an
genome editing technologies, questions about the just distri- ongoing academic debate on this topic, this study is the first
bution of governmental funding of genome editing comprehensive overview of this debate. Our article provides
compared with other investments, and concerns about the a systematic review of the reasons for and against the develop-
commercialization of genome editing technologies. With ment and use of genome editing technologies in animals as
regard to commercialization, members of the public have reported in the academic literature. We identified 67 different
raised the worry that businesses could prioritize profit- reasons for and 48 different reasons against genome editing — ~
making over the public good and could fail to provide a in animals, which related to human health, efficiency, =
balanced representation of the benefits and risks of these risks and uncertainty, animal welfare, animal dignity, environ- — 5"
technologies [154]. The fact that these concerns are largely mental considerations and public acceptability. Our findings >
absent from the academic debate on genome editing in ani- illuminate several key features of the academic debate thus =
mals is particularly significant given ongoing calls for far, including a low disciplinary diversity in the contributing =
public engagement and raises interesting questions that professionals, a scarcity of systematic comparisons of potential >
relate to a broader discussion about what the rationale, consequences of using these technologies, an underrepresenta- =
form and aim of public engagement should be. If the goals tion of animal interests, and a disjunction between the public = &
of such engagement are not merely to inform the public, and academic debate on this topic. 3
but also to address societal challenges and to allow the As such, our article can be considered a call for pro- = S
public to be involved in shaping technological developments fessionals from a wide range of disciplines to become
together with other stakeholders, then issues regarding com- involved in the academic discussion about genome editing
mercialization, distributive justice and access to the benefits in non-human animals. We also suggest that this ongoing
of genome editing technologies are worthy of more attention debate seek to incorporate animal interests, systematically
in the academic literature. compare applications of these technologies using the prin-