as the stop-signal reaction time or Stroop tasks [117,118]. More- pulsive drug-taking in experimental animals [83]. These two =
over, their brain morphology did not display the abnormalities psychological constructs, impulsivity and compulsivity, are =
typically associated with stimulant drug addiction. On the not only highly correlated in stimulant drug addiction, but — ~
contrary, they showed increased grey-matter volume in the also in a variety of other psychiatric disorders [130]. While 3
OFC, which declined in volume in addicted individuals as a impulsivity, as a personality trait, covers the spectrum from =
function of the duration of stimulant drug use [84]. However, normal to maladaptive behaviour, the variation of compulsivity
their brain activation during task performance indicated that in the normal population is very low, and is expressed differ-
they could possibly be recruiting a compensatory mechanism ently across different psychiatric disorders (e.g. checking
to buffer the effects of the drug in order to maintain normal behaviour in obsessive—compulsive disorder and compulsive
levels of impulsivity. drug use in substance use disorders). This may suggest that

It is important to clarify that not all recreational stimulant the effect of the drug influences the expression of compulsive
drug users are resilient to the effects of the drug. In fact, pre- behaviour. What could the mechanism be that renders impul-
vious studies on regular non-dependent stimulant drug users sive individuals susceptible to using stimulant drugs in a
did not show the aforementioned characteristics. Thus, these compulsive manner?
individuals exhibited similar cognitive and behavioural One mechanism of emerging interest relates to the develop-
profiles as addicted cocaine users [119,120], which fuelled ment of iron deficiency in the basal ganglia of chronic drug
speculations that they could be on the trajectory to addiction. users. Iron is a coenzyme of DA synthesis [131] and involved
A subset of recreational stimulant users, who use prescription in the storage of DA within the neuron [132], and therefore
stimulant drugs on occasions to enhance cognitive function may influence DA-dependent functions and modulate the rein-
[121], show altered brain function during decision-making forcing effects of stimulant drugs. The iron content of DA
and interoceptive processing [122], which may also render neurons is relatively high because the synthesis of DA is
them vulnerable to the transition to addiction. Presumably, strongly energy-dependent [133]. Within DA-ergic vesicles,
the individual characteristics of users matter as much as the iron and DA form stable complexes to protect the neuron
addictive liability of the drug. from degradation by the enzyme monoamine oxidase. Iron