

is changing. The realization of the importance of macropino- microscopy—the mechanism may involve a fusogenic protein

cytosis in the immune system, infection and drug delivery, such as that recently described in phagosome fusion in
cancer nutrition and neuro-degeneration [113] has fuelled a C. elegans [119], rather than the neck constriction involved
complete change in outlook in recent years. As we gain knowl- in sealing coated pits. Once fusion has occurred it must be sig-
edge, several fascinating questions about macropinocytosis nalled so that the macropinosome processing can commence,
come into focus. and again the mechanism is unknown.
(a) Macropinocytic signalling patches as templates (c) An evolutionary speculation: macropinocytosis and

for circular ruffles the origins of growth factor signalling
A major conceptual problem is to understand how actin can It is a remarkable fact that the core set of proteins organizing
be persuaded to polymerize in a ring under the plasma mem- macropinocytic cups in Dictyostelium—Ras, NF1, Ras-
brane to form the walls of the macropinocytic cup. This activated PI3-kinase, PTEN and Akt—are the same as those
requires organization of actin polymerization over distances mediating growth factor signalling in metazoa. All are also __
of several micrometres, meaning that more than local inter- notable oncogenes or tumour suppressors. The correspond- =
actions within the polymerization machinery are required. ing growth factor receptors are missing in Dictyostelium as =
We suggest that this spatial organization is provided by the the genome does not encode receptor tyrosine kinases [120].
patch of PIP3, active Ras and active Rac around which macro- We suggest an evolutionary hypothesis to explain this lin! =
pinocytic cups form. In Dictyostelium, these patches recruit between growth-factor signalling and macropinocytosis. g
the SCAR/WAVE complex and WASP to their periphery, so We propose that the Ras/PI3-kinase/Akt signalling 3
in principle activating the Arp2/3 complex and actin module evolved in single-celled organisms before the appear-
polymerization in a hollow ring (figure 1d) [4]. How recruit- ance of metazoa and was used to organize their feeding — ~
ment occurs—whether by movement of the actin effectors to structures, as it is in the amoebozoa to this day. As multicel- x