induced environmental change [4,14]. As Merila & Hendry [7] vides a context in which one can start to understand why
point out, it could be argued that the pendulum has now inter-individual patterns are predictable.

swung so far that plasticity is treated as the null model for phe-
notypic change under environmental variation and rejected
only if direct evidence of genetic change is recorded. It is

important to step back and re-examine our current under- 2. The space — time continuum: plasticity across
standing of the role of phenotypic plasticity relative to multiple dimensions

adaptive evolution in promoting adaptation to novel environ-

ments. We highlight here the fact that different types of ‘Nothing remains the same from one moment to the next, you
plasticity act on very different timescales and are not all of can’t step in the same river twice’ (Ursula K. Le Guin [19])
equal importance when it comes to adaptation to rapid The need to understand plasticity through time in relation to
environmental change. Understanding the mechanisms regu- rapid environmental change is evidenced by the number of
lating plasticity will be important in determining whether a papers within this theme issue that explore cross-generational
particular response is adaptive (highlighted by Snell-Rood exposure, using a range of focal species [20-23]. These studies
et al. [4]) and many of the contributions to this theme issue highlight key questions and challenges in relation to identify-
reiterate this point. For example, behavioural plasticity is typi- ing phenotypic adaptation. One such question is whether
cally assumed to be a low-cost, rapid response. But, depending transgenerational transmission depends on parent-of-origin,
on the underlying mechanism, behavioural plasticity is either which is important to understand in relation to mechanisms
activational (high-cost, but quick response) or developmental and adaptive potential. In Emborski & Mikheyev’s study
(lower-cost but slower-acting and with more integrated [21] on fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster), some phenotypic
response outcomes) [15]. Similarly, transgenerational plasticity traits (triglyceride level) showed parent-of-origin effects,