
(29) a. The state of Florida electrocuted Ted Bundy to death.
b. Joe Delaney drowned to death. Why might some supposed manner of death verbs occur
c. Richard Montague was strangled to death. with to death resultatives? If we examine the set of manner of


death verbs that occur in (29) and (31), they are the kinds of something becomes submerged, often in water. Although the 6 |

incidents that are, in fact, known to be survivable. An indi- verb drown was already removed from the list of manner of
vidual can be electrocuted, for instance, by being struck by death verbs in (33), other verbs on this list may also be threa- a
lightning, and yet survive to tell the tale. There are also tened. For instance, as noted above, the verbs decapitate and s
cases of individuals being hanged, only to be cut down and behead entail the loss of a head, and these entailed meanings a
revived before dying. Therefore, the events that these verbs might, in fact, simply be results as they appear to encodea = &
name are not true manners of death, but instead are simply scalar change from having to not having a head. Similarly, S
events with a manner that can, at times, lead to death. As quarter may too only encode a scalar result that something/ =
such, these verbs are more like the manner verbs shot and someone is separated into four pieces. Stronger evidence there- =
stab in (6). fore is needed to secure the manner component of manner of — “2
The to death diagnostic acts as a strong test for true manner of death verbs. s
death verbs. To the extent that native speakers find the combi- An initial diagnostic for the presence of amanner meaning = =5
nation of a manner of death verb unacceptable with to death, ina verbal concept involves denial of the manner meaning. As =
there is good reason to claim that that verb encodes a result. noted above, the manner component of manner of death verbs is =
To that end, a revised list of manner of death verbs is given in often fairly clear, allowing the denial of manner test to be more -
(33)? straightforwardly applied and interpreted. As manner of death 2
verbs differ from one another specifically in the manner in “*
(33) MANNER OF DeatH VerBs (revised): behead, crucify, which the event they name unfolds, it is unsurprising that we