
3. The net effect of sexual selection on mean vidual can strategically allocate to life-history traits [93].
A Condition is a simple concept invoked in numerous sexual
female reproductive output selection models [49,94,95], but it is notoriously difficult to
For all of the scenarios covered in §2(a,b) there are both theor- measure [96,97]. Nonetheless, it is often stated that most
etical models and empirical data suggesting that mating with sexually selected traits are strongly condition-dependent
more successful (i.e. competitive) males can have either a [98-100]. This claim is based on trait expression positively
positive or negative effect on mean female LRS, depending covarying with environmental variation in resource avail-
on contingent factors. For example, the proportion of genes ability, and this covariation being stronger for sexually than
with sexually antagonistic effects tends to be lower when naturally selected traits [97,101] (e.g. a greater change in sexu-
populations are in a novel or changing environment (e.g. ally than naturally selected traits when diet is manipulated).
[70-72]) (§5). Consequently, there is no consensus as to It remains unclear to us whether other key life-history traits
how variation in male mating success due to sexual selection (e.g. immunocompetence, female fecundity) are, in fact, less
affects the likelihood of population extinction. In contrast, all condition-dependent than sexually selected male traits
of the sexually selected processes in §2(c) reduce mean female (reviewed by [98]; but see [99,102]). Nonetheless, phenotypic
LRS. The net effect of sexual selection on mean female plasticity in sexually selected traits attributable to environ-
LRS, hence population extinction risk, is therefore uncertain mental variation in resource availability is often high. This
[3-7], although it seems on balance to be beneficial. is consistent with a zero-sum game in which success at com-
First, sexual selection is positively correlated with lineage peting for mates and eggs is largely determined by a male’s
diversification (speciation minus extinction rates) across relative investment in attractiveness, fighting ability and
many taxa ([73,74]; but see [75,76]). If this relationship is sperm competitiveness [103,104].
partly driven by lower extinction rates, it is plausible that Variation in condition among individuals arises owing to
sexual selection has a beneficial effect on mean female LRS. contingent external factors (e.g. season of birth, which affects

Second, a recent study of ostracods found that persistence resource availability in the environment) and direct effects of