innate ability and/or learning, and use it as a template for has not already been recognized using a learnt template
egg recognition [35-37]. The comparison mechanism refers and directly rejected), may allow hosts to resolve such
to a process in which hosts recognize alien eggs because a conflict.
they are present in a minority while innate template or learn- The only other study to our knowledge to have compared
ing is not required [38-41]. Here true recognition may be egg rejection and egg retrieval in the same species is that by
used as the primary mechanism, supplemented by a compari- Lyon & Shizuka [13], who studied a precocial bird species,
son mechanism when rejection decisions are more difficult. the American coot (Fulica americana). This species is a conspe-
When parasite eggs were non-mimetic and obviously different cific brood parasite that parasitizes other individuals while
from host eggs, hosts could accurately identify and reject them being parasitized as a host, too [6]. American coots were pro-
directly using true recognition, without retrieving them first. posed to use different cues for egg rejection and egg retrieval,
However, when parasitic eggs were at least partially mimetic, while brood parasitism was not found to shape the evolution
some individuals directly rejected them, but others were unde- of their egg retrieval [13]. This difference with our own
cided and thus chose to retrieve them first. We suggest that findings may be explained by the fact that selection pressures
these individuals subsequently used a comparison mechan- on the American coot affect chick recognition rather than egg
ism, once the foreign egg had been retrieved to the nest cup, recognition [44].

which then allowed hosts to correctly reject parasitic eggs by
applying this secondary decision rule.
We proposed that egg retrieval and egg rejection may

sometimes contradict each other during host decision- 5. Conclusion

making. Recently, attention has been paid to a host's To understand the evolution of egg recognition in the hosts of
motivation in egg rejection; even if recognition of foreign brood-parasitic birds, we need to understand how selection
eggs occurs, it may not always lead to rejection because for egg retrieval and potentially conflicting selection for egg