or rejection side of the acceptance threshold. Here we spots [22]. Although this suggests that mockingbirds do not
measured how mockingbirds responded to spotted or discriminate eggs based on colour, we found that mocking-
unspotted model cowbird eggs coloured along a gradient birds have strong rejection responses to (even spotted)
corresponding with natural avian eggshell coloration foreign egg models browner than their own. Thus, mocking-
(figure 3). We discovered that host responses were not birds do have the ability to discriminate models of parasitic
explained by the absolute perceived differences between eggs based on their colour alone, even though when con-
their own and foreign eggs, which is often assumed by fronted with natural parasitism these discrimination
tests of the optimal acceptance threshold hypothesis. Instead, abilities are generally not exercised. In addition, we demon-
our findings demonstrate that mockingbirds in South Amer- strate the importance of both eggshell colour and spotting
ica, similar to egg rejecter Turdus thrushes in North America on rejection decisions in this species. We found that a spotted
and Europe [17], are biased toward rejecting brown eggs over egg could be up to 5.0JND browner than an unspotted egg
blue-green (figure 3). However, as predicted by the optimal but still have the same likelihood of being rejected
acceptance threshold hypothesis, when the discrimination (figure 3a). In fact, for the brownest pair of eggs (which
task was made more challenging by experimentally increas- were the most likely to be rejected; figure 2), the unspotted
ing the similarity between foreign eggs (through the brown egg resulted in a higher rejection rate (greater than
addition of spotting), rejection responses became less likely. 80%) than the spotted egg (approx. 60%; figure 3a). By
Specifically, eggshell spots made these foreign eggs more contrast, the pair of eggs that were the most blue-green
similar to the hosts’ own phenotype (for every particular egg- (figure 2) both had low rejection rates, but again, the
shell colour tested in our experiment). As predicted, the unspotted blue-green eggs were more likely to be rejected
addition of spots shifted eggs to the ‘acceptance’ side of the (approx. 30%) than the spotted blue-green egg (less than
acceptance threshold. 10%, figure 3a). Our findings suggest that this host has not
Tests of the optimal acceptance threshold theory generally yet adapted the ability to discriminate fine-grained differ-
assume that hosts will respond to absolute perceived dissim- ences in eggshell patterns, but instead uses eggshell
ilarity between the hosts’ own and foreign eggs [2]; therefore, features as an all-or-nothing cue. Although it is possible
it is surprising that hosts rejected eggs browner than their that artificial eggs with spots were more cryptic and thus