Xoo m = 25.91, p < 0.0001), since 2 years (2000 and 2015) had We also found that colonial species are unlikely to be
much higher rates of parasitism (28% and 17%, respectively) osts, but when they are, parasites tend to exploit species
than the other 4 years (1.87% on average). When the analyses that live in smaller colonies. This supports previous findings
were done with a window of time of 6 days and 8 days the within particular colonial species, such as red bishops and
same quadratic trend was found in the best models, but was red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius spp.), in which cuckoos or
non-significant (electronic supplementary material, figure S2). cowbirds exploit small colonies more than large colonies

In years with low parasitism, nests in higher densities were 28,29,50]. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis

less likely to fledge host young, but this pattern was reversed in that living in large groups can offer a protection against


brood parasitism. In fact, one of the hypotheses for the evol- parasitism rates the effect of host density was reversed, and

ution of coloniality is that protection against predators nests in lower densities had higher reproductive success.
through social mobbing is higher in larger groups [24,51,52]. Thus, our results suggest that selection by brood parasites

Our comparative analyses suggest a link between spatial can favour aggregation to increase vigilance, but other factors
density and the probability that a species is parasitized. such as competition for resources could favour living in lower
However, the directionality of this association is unclear; densities when the risk of parasitism is low [51]. Overall, our
brood parasites may avoid exploiting species that are sparsely data indicate that the pressure exerted by brood parasitism
distributed or nest in large colonies, or, conversely, host has the potential to be a force shaping spatial patterns in
species may have evolved to breed in higher densities as a superb fairy-wrens.
defence against brood parasitism, or both. In fact, some of An important question that arises from our findings is
the patterns detected in our comparative analyses could how selection could act on host distribution. Do the progeny