
brood parasitism. In fact, one of the hypotheses for the evol- parasitism rates the effect of host density was reversed, and

ution of coloniality is that protection against predators nests in lower densities had higher reproductive success.
through social mobbing is higher in larger groups [24,51,52]. Thus, our results suggest that selection by brood parasites

Our comparative analyses suggest a link between spatial can favour aggregation to increase vigilance, but other factors
density and the probability that a species is parasitized. such as competition for resources could favour living in lower
However, the directionality of this association is unclear; densities when the risk of parasitism is low [51]. Overall, our
brood parasites may avoid exploiting species that are sparsely data indicate that the pressure exerted by brood parasitism
distributed or nest in large colonies, or, conversely, host has the potential to be a force shaping spatial patterns in
species may have evolved to breed in higher densities as a superb fairy-wrens.
defence against brood parasitism, or both. In fact, some of An important question that arises from our findings is
the patterns detected in our comparative analyses could how selection could act on host distribution. Do the progeny
potentially be explained by ecological factors. For instance, of fairy-wrens in high-density territories also nest in high- = =
if species have larger territories or lower densities because density territories? Do fairy-wrens evaluate the conditions >
of poor habitat productivity, this habitat might be equally each year and make a decision about their aggregation? = __
poor for parasites. Habitat factors could be driving both Is the distribution completely random each year because = =:
(but independently) the distribution of the hosts and the parasitism rates could be unpredictable? Or are other factors, — 5!
distribution of the parasitic species. For example, in superb such as nest site and food availability, so important in influu = 5
fairy-wrens, parasitism rate was predicted by an interaction encing settlement decisions that they override any potential =
between host density and rainfall during the breeding effect of brood parasitism? It has been shown that birds can = &
season [16]. However, host density appeared to be the pri- make precise behavioural decisions about their distribution iat
mary predictor of parasitism rates, because when host based on environmental cues. Pied flycatchers (Ficedula =
density declined as a result of removal of nest sites (which hypoleuca) choose nest-boxes that are at optimal distances