
GRS than closely related parasitized species. Shifts onto 5. Conclusion
new hosts that have a small GRS [15] may be rare because .

the chance of encounter may be low, but also because local Parasites are more vulnerable to extinction than are their

abundance of species tends to drop with decreasing GRS hosts [8,63], and this seems to be true also for social brood
[59], making the potential host harder to locate and parasites. Human-induced environmental changes and
parasitize. global warming will cause declines in the population sizes

However, our logistic regressions suggest that bumblebee of hosts as well as in ranges of brood parasites, because the
species with a large geographical range may be less often probability of host shifts decreases. Our results highlight
parasitized than species with a medium-sized distribution. the fact that the risk of extinction is highest in brood parasites
This indicates that some species with large GRS are not that rely on rare or threatened host species [8]. Thus, to lower
attacked by brood parasites. There are several mutually the risk of extinction of brood parasite species, it is important
non-exclusive explanations for why hosts with larger range to conserve their current hosts, especially in cases in which
sizes would not have brood parasites. It is possible that cer- suitable closely related hosts do not exist or have restricted
tain species with large GRS have had parasites, but for geographical ranges. Our results show that GRS of host
some reason have lost them, possibly because a widely dis- species can be used to estimate the extinction risk of brood
tributed host is a superior competitor against potential parasites, especially if information on phylogenetic relation-
brood parasite species and is often better adapted to fight ships among actual and potential hosts is available.
against parasites. This may be supported by the fact that However, long-term datasets and more up-to-date infor-
reproduction by inquiline queens has been observed in the mation from larger geographical areas are required to
nests of only 24 out of 34 of host bumblebee species, while provide more insightful data in order to understand the prox-
successful reproduction remains to be confirmed in 10 host imate and ultimate reasons for the risks of extinction of hosts