mary predictor of parasitism rates, because when host based on environmental cues. Pied flycatchers (Ficedula =
density declined as a result of removal of nest sites (which hypoleuca) choose nest-boxes that are at optimal distances
would not have affected habitat quality for brood parasites), from nests of their potential predators: close enough to gain 3
brood parasitism declined to 0% [16]. The results of our protection from their territoriality but far enough that =
within-species analysis of superb fairy-wrens contributes to encounters with the territory owner are unlikely [56]. Also,
clarifying this relationship, by indicating that the reproduc- some passerine species avoid foraging in forest edges but
tive success of hosts is influenced by an interaction between only when there are low light conditions, because of an
breeding density and rates of brood parasitism, and therefore increased likelihood of predation by pygmy owls [57].
brood parasitism could exert directional selection on hosts to Fairy-wrens are known to make chick rejection decisions
nest at high densities. based on cues such as seeing a brood parasite in the vicinity

The results from our field data are in agreement with the of the nest [35]; potentially, these cues could also influence
findings of the comparative analyses. The fact that the prob- their territory choice.
ability of parasitism in superb fairy-wrens is highest at Overall, we have provided extensive evidence—both
intermediate densities supports the idea that at high densities within and among species—that host density can impact
hosts may have corporate vigilance and increased potential the likelihood of being parasitized, but the relationship is
for defences, and at very low host densities hosts do not not linear. Low and high densities are beneficial for hosts,
provide sufficient nests for a brood parasite, with the conse- but for different reasons. A similar trade-off can be expected
quence that being isolated could provide a defence against in predator—prey interactions, where predators may benefit
brood parasitism. This is not surprising, because fairy-wrens from intermediate prey densities, with high aggregation but
in larger groups mob cuckoo models significantly more than lower chance of detection [58,59]. However, the trade-off
smaller groups, and larger groups experience lower parasitism described above is unlikely to be present in many endo-para-
rates than smaller groups [22]. Mobbing a parasite is a learned sitic systems, where there is poor evidence that high host
behaviour [53], and is more likely to spread in dense popu- numbers can negatively affect the fitness of the parasite [9],
lations, where there is a high exchange of information although there are some examples where it is the case