PHO84. TRK1 encodes a high-affinity potassium transporter epistasis among pairs of genes in which we observed three or
and PHO84 encodes a high-affinity phosphate transporter. more independent mutations. We assumed that all observed
The biological cause of their interaction is unclear, although mutations in these ‘multi-hit’ genes are beneficial. However,
there is evidence of crosstalk between potassium and this may not be the case. We estimate around 12% of the
phosphate import [53,54]. genes included in this analysis to have been mutated three
While gene-deletion studies are particularly good at or more times simply by chance. These mutations are distrib-
detecting strong negative pairwise interactions between dele- uted uniformly among genotypes and therefore decrease the
terious mutations, such as synthetic lethality (reviewed in signal-to-noise ratio in our data. One way to decrease FDR is
[9]), our method identifies primarily positive interactions to consider genes with an even higher degree of parallelism.
between pairs of selectively accessible mutations. In theory, Of course, this would come at a cost of potentially missing
our approach could also capture negative interactions, but interesting genetic interactions among less frequently
this would require observing an absence of certain muta- mutated genes.
tional combinations more often than expected by chance. Second, high FDR may in fact reflect a real biological
Such mutational incompatibilities have been observed in phenomenon. Gene-deletion studies have shown that strong
evolution experiments [36,47]; for example, mutations in an pairwise epistasis is relatively rare, around 4% if both positive
HXT6/7 hexose transporter and its negative regulator, and negative interactions are counted [6]. Thus, strong pair-
MTHI, in glucose-limited yeast chemostat populations are wise genetic interactions among beneficial mutations might
incompatible [47]. The absence of negative interactions in our also be rare. Weak epistasis might be more common, but it
list of significant pairs suggests that we are underpowered to is also harder to detect. The highly significant value of the
detect them. aggregate MI,., statistic in our study suggests that genetic
Several recent experimental evolution studies have found interactions jointly have affected the outcome of the evol-
that adaptive mutations often exhibit a global (i.e. not specific utionary process at the genetic level. At the same time, the
to a particular gene pair) type of negative epistasis, which is difficulty of reliably identifying individual interacting gene
referred to as ‘diminishing returns epistasis’ [55-58]. For pairs suggests that genetic interactions, rather than being
example, we previously demonstrated that beneficial alleles strong and concentrated in a small number of gene pairs,