0 1.0 2.0 3.0

total standardized divergence linkage group =

Figure 2. The landscape of NCARs in bees. A total of 3463 NCARs were identified across bee genomes. Locations were mapped using the A. mellifera genome asa = =>
reference. (a) They were located in several genomic regions associated with gene regulation (see methods for classification scheme). (b) NCARs were distributed
across all chromosomes, but are present in clusters on each chromosome. Apis mellifera linkage groups 5—8 are represented on the x-axis; black and grey dots are =
used to denote each of these groups; each dot represents a single NCAR and the y-axis signifies a standardized measure of divergence for each region (detailed in =
methods). The blue line denotes the no. of NCARs present in each 500 kb window. NCARs occur in clusters across each chromosome, consistent with patterns
observed in vertebrates and in plants. (c) NCARs exhibit substantial variation in evolutionary rates of change. The 100 slowest-evolving regions are associated <=
primarily with regulation of gene expression, and the 100 fastest-evolving regions are associated with metabolism. 8

There were also differences in the types of genomic fea- fact that Euf. mexicana is one of the most fragmented genomes
tures associated with faster or slower evolving NCARs in the dataset [6]), suggesting that there was an expansion in
(electronic supplementary material, 2.1). The fastest-evolving regulatory regions at the origin of this clade. Genes proximal
NCARs were enriched for presence in 5’ UTR sequence com- to these regions are not enriched in particular functions after
pared to the 3233 non-overlapping gene-associated NCARs multiple test correction, although many nervous system func-
(hypergeometric test, p=3.1 x 107'°, 4.5-fold enrichment), tions show some indication of enrichment (hypergeometric
while the slowest-evolving NCARs were enriched in regions test, uncorrected p < 0.01; electronic supplementary material,
downstream of genes (hypergeometric test, p = 0.032, 1.64- table S7). These corbiculate-specific NCARs are located pri-
fold enrichment). The fastest-evolving NCARs also contained marily in introns (35%) and intergenic regions (21%),
30% more binding motifs (n = 3763 occurrences of motifs similar to the distribution of all NCARs.

proximal to 80 genes) than the slowest-evolving NCARs,
which encompassed 2973 motifs proximal to 69 genes.