primate gene trees matching the species tree containing to recombination, even trees inferred from very short
21.7% incongruent sites, and the two discordant trees con- stretches of the genome can include multiple underlying
taining 33.0% (gorfhum) and 29.1% (ch,gor) incongruent topologies. Here, we have quantified the extent to which
sites (figure 5a). Similar patterns among topologies are the construction of local topologies can mitigate the problems
observed in Drosophila (figure 5c). associated with hemiplasy, for two different datasets.

If instead we use exons to infer topologies, the resulting Our results suggest that constructing local trees can
gene trees contain on average 10% and 23.3% incongruent greatly reduce the problem of hemiplasy, though using
sites for primates and Drosophila, respectively. This is again trees from whole protein-coding sequences was much less
an improvement compared to the use of CDSs, though effective than using trees from individual exons. Eukaryotic
there would still be a large number of hemiplastic substi- protein-coding sequences, which often include multiple
tutions (and a much smaller number of total sites available exons and long introns, can contain multiple different tree
for analysis). There is also again some variation in the topologies (figure 3). In fact, different exons in the same
number of incongruent sites among topologies, with between protein-coding gene may not share any more similarity in
8-14% and 22-24% incongruent sites for primates and their topologies than do exons in different genes (e.g. [43]).
Drosophila, respectively (figure 5b,d). Because of this underlying heterogeneity, inferred gene

Among the tree topologies inferred from individual loci, trees may contain incongruent sites due to hemiplasy and
we do not expect the frequency of the two incongruent sites not homoplasy. Note that this inference requires that we
to necessarily be the same within each. For discordant trees, have a more general definition of hemiplasy, which has
the frequencies of the two incongruent site patterns contained often been applied only in relation to the species tree. Hemi-
within them are expected to be unequal, as incongruent con- plasy as defined here is the production of a homoplasy-like

cordant sites will be (almost by definition) more common event when traits that have evolved along one topology are
