location and behaviour, we should expect Ro to vary across control outbreaks [56]. Crop production mosaics may also
communities with different cultural practices and economic take on a metapopulation structure in the context of epidemic
circumstances. Our results suggest, however, in using a outbreaks, where the disease is vectored among different
spatially homogeneous model to fit data from the spatially parts of the mosaic by insects or other types of vectors, includ-
structured outbreak, that Ro is greatly underestimated, with ing wind and water [57]. Gilligan [58], for example, proposed
consequences for managing epidemics including assessment that each field should be considered as a ‘natural unit
of vaccination coverage levels needed to obtain ‘herd immu- for infection’.
nity’ conditions within a vulnerable population [2]. On the Finally, our analysis suggests that fitting models with more
other hand, if Ro levels are relatively high, then the obvious than a half-dozen parameters is exceptionally challenging
question is why have so many Ebola outbreaks been relatively because of both the ‘curse of dimensionality’ [59] and the
small or exhibited the kind of stuttering behaviour that is impacts of multi-collinearity. Fitting such models would
associated with values of Ro not much larger than 1 [47]. The likely require that different parts of the model be fitted inde-
answer may lie in the fact that many of the Ebola outbreaks pendently to different datasets. For example, a movement
in various parts of central and east Africa, from the 1970s component, when employed, could first be fitted to a move-
until recently, have occurred in low density, relatively isolated ment model, or in the case of EVD the infectious period
locations. Here epidemic fade-out occurs because of small loca- could be set using the consensus level of around 9.5 days
lized population sizes [48], unlike in towns and cities where [60] (our high estimate of this quantity might be explained by
populations of several hundred thousand or more are able to our neglect of transmission during the preparation of bodies
fuel epidemics involving hundreds or thousands of cases. for burial [51]). Then epidemiological parameters could be

Our analysis also reveals that, although the fitting pro- obtained by fitting an SEIVD model to subsets of incidence
cedures are insensitive to assumptions regarding the initial data for which the assumption of well-mixed subpopulations
size (Neg) of the population at risk, estimates obtained are is reasonable. Once these components of a larger model have
still within a factor of 2 of the listed population densities been fitted, then the larger model itself can be used to make
within the districts themselves. This insensitivity, as discussed a logistical decision on how best to manage epidemics that