VL N, t) - GSC N (2.1) Initial runs revealed the presence of several local optima.
‘2 Thus, we selected the best solution in each case (we had

Specifically, the value of VL N, t) as a function of time f falls three sets of data and allowed from three to seven parameters
off in value for a give ratio I/N from y*(I, N, 0) = BI/N to vary, as described in the next section) for 100 to 400 runs
to limo. N, t)=0, passing through the half-way starting from random initial selections of parameter values

mark £I/(2N) at the critical time ts/2, with a steepness (the Nelder—Mead requires two initial estimates to get started).
(also known as the abruptness parameter—see [42]) that
increases with the value of e (electronic supplementary

material, figure S2). Of course, in practice, additional depen- (b) Ebola viral disease in Sierra Leone
dence on time enters through the fact that I and N are At a coarse spatial level, Sierra Leone can be divided into =
themselves functions of t. four geographical regions, one of which is centred around = =:
Demography is added to the model by including natural the only major city in Sierra Leone, Freetown, which has a —S'
and disease-induced per capita death rates parameters, 4 and million plus individuals. The other three regions each contain >
a respectively, as illustrated in electronic supplementary at most two towns with between 0.1 and 0.2 million individ- =
material, figure S1, while recruitment is included through uals (electronic supplementary material, figure $4). Without =
the parameter A. This recruitment could be generated more refined spatial population data than this, as well as iat
through births or actual recruitment from younger cohorts some information on how individuals move among the >
(as in models that consider sexually transmitted diseases) or major population centres (i.e. towns with ten thousand or x
from migration (as in metapopulation models). The equations more individuals apiece) or from adjoining rural areas to 3
for this discrete SETVD model are provided in electronic sup- these centres, a reliable analysis of the spatial aspects of an <3
plementary material, equations S.1—S.8, and also in Getz et al. Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone cannot be undertaken. In
[3], where the expression for Ro—the expected number of sus- addition, an integrated spatial analysis would require infor-