yield the respective values 1.52, 2.42 and 1.65, using an cations [54]. Metapopulation models have also been used to | >
exponential decay model for £ (electronic supplementary study the spread of disease in plant populations, with the =
material, figure S2). The Guinea and Liberia estimates are in anther-smut disease in Lychnis alpina being a case in point = &
line with what we get here for Sierra Leone as a whole, [55]. Metapopulation structures naturally arise through =
although the estimate for Sierra Leone is somewhat higher husbandry practices in domestic animals, likely involving 3
than what we obtain here (2.42 versus 1.7). The estimate we many more subpopulations than in the wild: each subpopu-
obtain here for Sierra Leone is very similar to the estimates lation corresponds to a common ranching area, a group of 3
we obtained using an individual-based stochastic process contiguous farms, large individual farms themselves or indi- <3
model, which produced a value of Ro © 1.6 [21]. Values for vidual poultry rearing facilities. For example, individual
Ro around 4 are more in line with the values we recently farms were treated as separate subpopulations in modelling
obtained in fitting an SEIVD distributed-delay (Erlang or the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in England in 2001
boxcar—see [8]) model to the Liberian incidence data, where [27]. The application of metapopulation models to disease out-
Ro © 4.5 was obtained. breaks in domesticated animals is facilitated by the fact that

Since transmission is a function of both pathogen and host transfers of individuals among subpopulations may be well
biology, as well as environmental factors related to host documented, and the limitation of such transfers used to
location and behaviour, we should expect Ro to vary across control outbreaks [56]. Crop production mosaics may also
communities with different cultural practices and economic take on a metapopulation structure in the context of epidemic
circumstances. Our results suggest, however, in using a outbreaks, where the disease is vectored among different
spatially homogeneous model to fit data from the spatially parts of the mosaic by insects or other types of vectors, includ-
structured outbreak, that Ro is greatly underestimated, with ing wind and water [57]. Gilligan [58], for example, proposed
consequences for managing epidemics including assessment that each field should be considered as a ‘natural unit
of vaccination coverage levels needed to obtain ‘herd immu- for infection’.
nity’ conditions within a vulnerable population [2]. On the Finally, our analysis suggests that fitting models with more
other hand, if Ro levels are relatively high, then the obvious than a half-dozen parameters is exceptionally challenging