MSA EBV genome numbering (kb)

Figure 1. Principal component analysis of type 1 EBV sequence diversity coloured by geographical origin (colours as shown in part a) using 217 type 1 EBV strains (a) PC-1
versus PC-3, (b) PC-2 versus PC-3. PC-1 versus PC-2 with the same dataset is shown in fig. 1B of [6]. (c) Eigenvector coefficients plotted with a smoothing window of 20 nt
along the MSA genome (plotted as sum of coefficients on the ordinate axis). Labelled peaks are listed in electronic supplementary material, figure 52. PNG, Papua New Guinea.

in a phylogenetic tree [6] and PCA (figure 1a,b), which were listed in electronic supplementary material, table S2. We pre-
considered characteristic of a geographical region. These viously reported [6] the insertion in the BART region of the
groups of isolates from Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, genome (electronic supplementary material, table S2),
Africa (Kenya) and China were relatively homogeneous and between miR BART8 and miR BART21, in 21 of the 241
comparison of SNPs between their consensus sequences strains analysed.

and a consensus of all 217 type 1 sequences provides one In fact, the most frequent major indel detected by this
approach to identifying the variation (electronic supplemen- type of analysis (peak 167798 in electronic supplementary
tary material, figure S2). To focus on the main points of material, figure S2) is a 30 nt region of the LMP1 gene and
variation, nucleotide locations were only included in these is known as the CAO deletion. It was originally identified
analyses when the number of occurrences of SNPs at the in a Chinese nasopharyngeal carcinoma sample [13] and its
location in question was greater than 5. The number of functional consequences for LMP1 have been studied exten-
SNPs at each of these greater than 5 locations was plotted sively, summarized in [14]. LMP1 with this deletion is more
for each group separately as cumulative SNPs in a 100 nt effective at activating NF-kB [14] and is more tumorigenic
window and this identified regions and peaks of difference in rodent fibroblasts or epithelial cells implanted into nude
(electronic supplementary material, figure S2). Many of mice [15-17]. The 30 bp CAO deletion is very uniform in
these peaks were at similar genome locations in several of those strains that have it (see nucleotide positions 173 802—
the geographical groups and were in repeat arrays but there 173 831 in electronic supplementary material, figure S1) and
were some differences. The gene regions corresponding to we can now estimate its varying prevalence in different geo-