duction in V. dahliae is independent of the canonical RNAi ation of hyphae at this time point. Once fungal biomass
proteins, such as the DCL and AGO proteins in plants and increases over time, Verticillium avails itself of VdmilR1
animals, that govern conventional miRNA _ production regulation to prevent VdHy1-related virulence in the host
[33,57]. We found that VdR3, a putative RNaselII enzyme, and keep its host alive during the biotrophic phase of
participates in the production of VdmilR1. The exact function the infection. Later, regaining basal expression levels of
of VdR3 in VdmilR1 biogenesis remains to be investigated. VdmilR1 and VdHy1 is presumably required for conidia
VdR3 might have multiple functions. Because overexpression and/or microsclerotium formation during the saprophytic
of VdR3 increased VdmilR1, while increased VdmilR1 phase when wilt symptoms appear, as observed in cotton
reduced the virulence of V. dahliae in cotton plants, a VdR3- plants infected with wild-type V592, but not with VdHy1
overexpressing strain increased virulence in cotton plants deletion mutant strains.
(electronic supplementary material, figure S2f), showing Although the exact function of VdHy1 in virulence
that VdR3 has other functions in addition to VdmilR1 biogen- remains to be investigated, the VdmilR1/VdHy1 regulatory
esis. The fact that VdR3 contains only one RNaselII domain module provides essential information as well as an example
suggests that VdR3 might form complexes with another fac- case for further study of milRNA functions in fungal growth
tor(s), e.g. DCL2, which lacks one RNaselII domain. The and pathogenicity. Our data demonstrate that RNAi machin-
increased, rather than decreased, VdmilR1 level in some V. ery in V. dahliae also operates at an epigenetic repression
dahliae RNAi mutants (electronic supplementary material, level, in addition to mRNA degradation mediated by plant
figure S2d) implies that mutation of, for instance, DCL2 or host-exporting miRNAs, such as miR166 and miR159 [7].
AGO2, might release VdR3 and promote a VdR3-containing Our finding also provides a new strategy to investigate key

complex to induce VdmilR1 biogenesis. VdR3 is likely an trans-kingdom miRNAs/sRNAs involved in plant—fungi


interaction and to exploit new efficient targets to protect
cotton against Verticillium wilt disease, a major threat to