various maize inbred lines [30,31]. A family of three O-methyl- induced JA/JA-Ile accumulation within a maize A188 leaf.
transferases methylate DIMBOA-Gle into 2-hydroxy-4,7- The third leaves (leaf 3) of 18-day-old maize seedlings were
dimethoxy-1,4-benzoxazin-3-one glucoside (HDMBOA-Glc), evenly allocated into three parts longitudinally, and separ-
whose aglycone is toxic to herbivores in wheat and maize ated by the midrib, six virtual segments were designated
[32,33]. The further conversion of HDMBOA-Glc into for each leaf 3 (figure 1). Since insect feeding behaviour is
6-methoxybenzoxazolin-2(3H)-one (MBOA) confers strong very hard to control, these leaf segments were wounded by
resistance to rice armyworm Leucania separata in maize [34]. rolling a pattern wheel, and immediately either 20 yl of
Moreover, 2,4-dihydroxy-7,8-dimethoxy-1,4-benzoxazin-3-one water (wounding plus water, as a treatment of mechanical
glucoside (DIM,BOA-Glc) and/or 2-hydroxy-4,7,8-trimethoxy- wounding; abbreviated as ‘WW’ hereafter) or M. separata
1,4-benzoxazin-3-one glucoside +(HDM,BOA-Glc) _ provide OS (wounding plus OS, as a treatment of simulated herbiv-
specific protection against phloem-feeding insects [31]. ory; abbreviated as ‘WO’ hereafter) were applied to the
Maize is able to perceive the fatty acid-amino acid conju- wounds (illustrated in figure 1). The segments 1, 2 and 3
gates (FACs) and probably other elicitors, if there are any, in were treated individually with either WW or WO and JA
the oral secretions (OS) of the lepidopteran insect [35]. For and JA-Ile were quantified in all leaf segments.
example, the OS of Mythimna separata activate greater levels of One hour after treating region 1 with WW or WO, we
JA, SA, ABA and ethylene than those induced by wounding, detected strong increases of JA and JA-lIle in region 1 and
and more Bxs were also detected in maize treated with the adjacent region 2, and to a lesser extent in region 3,
M. separata OS than in maize treated with wounding [36]. with no significant differences between WW and WO
Systemic signalling also occurs in maize infested with insect her- (figure 1a); by contrast, there were no changes in the levels
bivores. In maize leaves, it was found that wounding induced of these hormones in the other areas of the leaf, including
JA accumulation only at the immediate site of damage, while region 4, which was adjacent to region 1 but separated by
beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua) crude regurgitant induced the midrib (figure 1a). When region 2 was treated, we
JA accumulation in both the local and the distant regions [37]. found increases of JA and JA-Ile in the treated area and in
Similarly, wounding only increased the expression levels of region 3, but not in region 1 (figure 1b). Again, no increases
allene oxide synthase, TF MYC7 and ribosome inactivating protein in hormone concentrations were detected in regions 4—6 on