directly with costs of interventions and allow researchers to generality.
discuss, quantitatively, the information gain of data from Percolation models do not yet yield a recipe for the analy-
different levels through increased explained variance in log- sis of spillover count datasets. Rather, researchers will have to
probabilities of success (e.g. the value of wildlife surveillance consider various phenomena described here on a case-
versus vaccine coverage). by-case basis owing to the wide range of data quality, data
Percolation models of spillover lend themselves to easy quantity, research questions and underlying biology in patho-
visualizations of model structure and tractable calculations gen spillover datasets. The usual statistical concerns of model
of spillover rates. They also provide two important results complexity; which covariates to include, the behaviour of
for the inference of spillover risk across levels and across regularization, how to quantify the relative importance of
alternative pathways. In general, one cannot use GLMs for covariates and so on, must be considered in light of the
both levels or alternative sources and the overall rate of spil- behaviour of spillover counts we have shown here. For
lover. However, when one assumes linear models between a example, lasso regression [33] could easily shrink the slope
covariate and the log-rates of shedding from alternative for a covariate to zero when the slope is in fact high but invis-
sources and/or the log-odds of successful passage through ible owing to its modulation of a non-dominant source or a
a barrier to spillover, the resulting nonlinearity is always currently low-attrition process on the pathway to spillover.
approximately piecewise linear. Thus, count data of spillover More generally, based on the results in figures 2 and 3, we
incidence should be carefully analysed for piecewise linearity suspect such approaches, which are typically employed to
using tools such as generalized additive models, switching- prevent overfitting, could exacerbate the challenges of identi-
regression models or ensembles of linear models. Projections fying sensitive yet non-dominant pathways and weak
beyond the range of observed covariates should be especially attrition processes. At the current stage, we see these percola-
wary of the piecewise linearity arising in the log-rate of tion models not as a general recipe for statistics as much as a
pathogen spillover. The switching dominance and invisibility tool for understanding—and in some cases using clever
of processes with weak attrition, even if they have a strong experimental design, data collection or statistical analyses to
sensitivity to management actions, present a unique avoid—the pitfalls facing data analysts and managers in the
challenge for pathogen spillover data analysis and manage- field. If our work suggests one firm recommendation to ana-