A recent report found that a host membrane protein, BmREEPa, responses, which result in the depletion of cellular IAPs and
could interact with GP64 and facilitate the entry of BmNPV into the initiation of apoptosis [43,44]. Moreover, baculoviruses
silkworm cells [35]. Regarding F proteins, it seems that they encode several suppressors to inhibit apoptosis. The first ident-
exploit a distinct cellular receptor from GP64 to gain entry ified baculovirus suppressor of apoptosis was P35 [45], which
into cells [36]. However, the specific cellular receptors for inhibits apoptosis via the inactivation of a wide range of effec-
both GP64 and F proteins remain to be discovered. tor caspases. The P35 protein family also contains a highly

divergent homologue, P49. Unlike P35, P49 inhibits both
initiator and effector caspases. Another baculovirus apoptosis
suppressor, Apsup, inhibits initiator caspase [46]. Apart from

4, Modulation of host defence systems P35 family proteins, baculovirus also encoded another type
Insect hosts possess powerful innate immune systems that of apoptosis suppressor, IAPs. In fact, [APs were first identified
combat viral infections. These include RNA interference in baculoviruses before their counterparts were identified in
(RNAi), apoptosis, autophagy, melanization and a series of cells [47]. Unlike P35, P49 and Apsup which are present in
conserved immune signalling pathways (Jak/STAT, NF-«B only a few baculoviruses, IAPs exist in most baculoviruses.
mediated Toll and Imd pathways), etc. [37]. To date, a Baculovirus-encoded IAPs are phylogenetically classified into
humoral immune response, melanization and two cellular five lineages (iap1—5). Among these, IAP3 is the most widely
mechanisms (RNAi and apoptosis) have been implicated spread and its anti-apoptotic activity has been confirmed
as host defences against baculoviruses. Correspondingly, in many baculoviruses. The model of action of IAP3 appears
baculoviruses developed multiple strategies to antagonize to be interacting with and stabilizing cellular IAPs, thereby
these defence systems (figure 1, ®). A recent review also suppressing apoptosis [48]. Some IAPs do not appear to
summarizes research progress on the interactions between block apoptosis and they even trigger apoptosis in certain

baculoviruses and host immune systems [38]. cases [49].