does acquiring new knowledge about graphemes modulate daily life. These characters are gradually introduced during
the synaesthetic colours for the graphemes? It has been an individual’s development. By the ages of 4-6, most
pointed out that grapheme-colour synaesthesia is profoundly Japanese children can read Hiragana characters. Katakana
connected with grapheme learning [11,15,33]. Synaesthetic characters are introduced somewhat later, at around the
colours, which are determined by some features of gra- ages of 6-7. People typically start learning Kanji characters
phemes, may serve as a memory aid and help grapheme in the first year of primary school, that is, at around the
learning, especially in a synaesthete’s childhood, in which ages of 6-7. Then they master at least 2136 characters
he/she must learn many graphemes with effort [11,15,33]. by around the age of 15 and continue learning new Kanji
Some studies have provided models and empirical data characters until adulthood (see [10], for a more detailed intro-
that support this idea. Asano & Yokosawa [11] proposed duction to the Japanese scripts). These characteristics of the
a model predicting that the feature domain (e.g. sound, Japanese language enable a unique examination of the influ-
visual shape, ordinality) making the largest contribution to ence of several psycholinguistic factors on grapheme—colour
discriminating the grapheme from others has the largest associations within a language. The fact that Hiragana and
impact on synaesthetic grapheme-colour associations. For Katakana characters share sounds but not visual shapes
example, ordinality information (positions in a grapheme enabled us to isolate the effects of sounds from those of
sequence) may be useful in discriminating among letters shapes [9]. We also found that visually and semantically
of the English alphabet because there are one-to-one different Kanji characters with the same sound are coloured
ordinality-grapheme correspondences, while sound may not similarly, suggesting that sound is also a determinant of
be useful because the English alphabet is an opaque writing synaesthetic colours for Kanji characters [10]. Character
system (i.e. many-to-many grapheme-sound correspondences); meaning is a strong determinant of synaesthetic colours for
in this case, the model predicts that synaesthetic colours for Kanji characters, too. The Kanji character representing ‘red’
the English letters are strongly affected by ordinality but Gk) typically elicits the colour red. The Kanji character repre-
not sounds. Asano and Yokosawa successfully tested the senting ‘cherry blossoms’ (#%) is typically associated with
model through an experiment. The results showed that light pink, which is just like the colour of cherry blossom
English letters with similar ordinality, but not those with petals [10] (see also [2,36] for synaesthetic colour associations