learning block and a new meaning learning block. In each

3. Stu dy 2 block, participants were presented with six test Kanji charac-
. ters for which new (i.e. Chinese) sounds/meanings were
In Study 2, we explored the effect of learning new sounds or taught and six control Kanji characters for which no new
meanings for familiar graphemes. It is widely known that information was taught. The full list of the stimulus characters
synaesthetes show remarkably high test-retest consistency is available as electronic supplementary material, table S3.
in grapheme-colour associations [34,35]. However, knowl- Test and control stimulus characters for sound learning task
edge about graphemes may be updated by acquiring new block. We prepared a set of 46 Kanji characters that are also
knowledge or by learning a new language. Does acquiring used in the Chinese language as Chinese characters, but
new knowledge about graphemes modulate the synaesthetic whose pronunciations are different between the two
colours for the graphemes? To answer this question, we used languages. The selection of the characters was supervised
the fact that Japanese Kanji characters were originally by a Chinese—Japanese bilingual, whose native language is
imported from China more than 1500 years ago. Although Chinese and who speaks Japanese fluently. All of the 46
most of the modern Japanese Kanji characters are also used characters represent a single mora sound in the Japanese
in the modern Chinese language as Chinese characters, language. Based on the Japanese vocabulary database
many of them differ in sounds and meaning. We taught Japa- ‘Nihongo-no Goi Tokusei’ [39], characters that have only
nese synaesthetes the Chinese sounds or meaning for the one highly typical reading were included in the stimulus
Kanji characters, which are different from those in Japanese. set (ie. these are characters with a one-to-one relationship
For example, for the Kanji character #1, which is pro- between graphemes and phonemes in the Japanese language).
nounced as /so/ in Japanese, we taught the participants All characters had moderate to high word familiarity ratings,
that in Chinese, this character is pronounced as /zti/. The 5.69 on average (range: 3.79-6.54), and low to moderate
character Jj means ‘monk’ in Japanese, and we taught the visual complexity ratings, 3.50 on average (range: 2.42-3.96),
participants that in Chinese, this character means ‘town’. both on a scale that ranged from 1 to 7 (where higher values
We predicted that acquiring new information about mean higher familiarity/visual complexity), in the Japanese