other, seemingly unrelated, kinds of synaesthesia such as have synaesthesia. This is not an abstract, philosophical
lexical-gustatory (and similarly for imagery involving other argument. It can be looked for in the data. If synaesthesia
senses). This, again, suggests that increased mental imagery enhances memory for everybody then the mean will shift
(across multiple senses) is a predisposing influence on upwards but the shape of the distribution will be the same,
synaesthesia although specific modalities might get further and this appears to be the case when real data is plotted
enhanced as a consequence of particular kinds of synaesthesia (also figure 2). By contrast, if only half of the synaesthetes
developing. have a memory advantage and half are like non-synaesthetes

Creativity has been reported to be increased in synaesthe- then the distribution would be squashed (shorter and
sia in terms of both psychometric tests [40,41] and artistic broader) as well as shifted.
inclinations (e.g. [42,43]). On a psychometric test of creativity Considering the upper tail of the distribution, most
(the Remote Associates Test), Ward et al. [41] noted that synaesthetes do not have exceptional memory. From this
having more types of synaesthesia was linked to higher fact, it would be tempting, but erroneous, to claim that
scores on this measure. These differences in creativity and there is no relationship at all between synaesthesia and excep-
imagery-based thinking are also tied to a commonly found tional memory. However, the nonlinearity of the normal
difference in personality traits among synaesthetes. Namely, distribution means that the further along the upper tail one
synaesthetes report significantly higher ‘openness to experi- samples, then the relative proportion of synaesthetes goes
ence’ and this itself is correlated with the number of types up and up. Thus, a high proportion of synaesthetes in the
of synaesthesia that a person has [44]. exceptional tail-end is predicted by even a moderate (0.6)

With regards to memory, interest in the relationship shift in ability: we would expect synaesthetes to outnumber
between synaesthesia and memory has been piqued by fasci- non-synaesthetes by nearly 7-to-1 in the region above three
nating case studies such as that of Shereshevskii [45] with standard deviations of the neurotypical mean (all things
seemingly unlimited memory capacity, and that of Daniel being equal). If one ranks 1000 people by memory ability
Tammet [46] who, through his combination of synaesthesia then the person in that distribution who is statistically most