explanations of how a brain would generate its multiple func- mentally transition into a brain. In these lines, they could = =
tions. Some of these functions include but are not limited to, not find any examples of this transition; in every example — 5"
the detection of environmental signals, the processing and that they explored, a ganglion seems to remain a ganglion = >
interpretation of these signals in order to generate behaviours however big it would get. Their chosen example to illustrate =
(ideally, from an evolutionary perspective, these behaviours the point was the well-known fact that certain dinosaur = &
would enhance the survival chances of an individual). species displayed an enlarged lumbosacral ganglion, which iat
Finally, other functional aspects of a brain must include learn- actually was several times larger than the actual dinosaurian =!
ing and memory processes in order to make use of the brain (this ganglion was colloquially called a second brain). —
interpretation of such signals to better cope with future They—I think correctly—argued that it was highly unlikely 3
environmental challenges. Additionally, Dr Netsky stated that this ‘hyperdeveloped’ dinosaurial ganglion endowed &
that any proposed definition of the term ‘brain’ should address the organism with additional cognitive abilities. Upon sub-
questions like whether brain convolutions are essential to its mission, their paper was peer-reviewed by several
function (in fact, they are not; many vertebrate species lack invertebrate zoologists who oddly enough, took emphatic
brain convolutions with no apparent disadvantages; case in exception to the idea of an ‘invertebrate brain’, and in no
point: birds). uncertain terms advised Drs Netsky and Sarnat to abandon

As a self-professed lexicophile (a dictionary enthusiast), the concept of an invertebrate brain. Happily, they did not,
Dr Netsky explored a plethora of published definitions of a and their paper was eventually published [12].
brain and found all of them lacking, since these definitions In the end, in his 1986 review paper Dr Netsky proposed
overwhelmingly focused on purely anatomical criteria. In the following definition, explicitly referring to vertebrate
his words, all of these structurally-oriented definitions brains:
merely described ’... a dead brain’. ...that part of the central nervous system in the skull; connected

Dr Netsky’s idea emphasized that a working knowledge to the spinal cord; the seat of sense, motion, thought, and of
of the differences between ganglia and nuclei in a neurobio- human speech; comprising two contiguous hemispheres con-