scanned in the same scanner while exposed to the same PET acquisition was necessarily delayed after the auditory
stimuli, including vocalizations of both species. Areas along listening task during which the radioactive tracer is injected
the middle STP, close to Al, showed greater response to CV and this delay may have varied between individuals.
compared to their scrambled controls, but not compared to Second, the auditory listening task was performed on freely
human vocalizations. moving animals without control of interaural differences.

It has been suggested that the position of the anterior Finally, time-reversed controls may have involved different
voice area described in Petkov et al. [107] is different from processes than other matched controls described in figure 1.
what was expected from human data [30,110]. Yet this com- For instance, in macaques, temporal inversion was shown to >
parison only focused on the most anterior patch observed induce distinct behavioural responses depending on the  §
in two macaques, leaving the possibility that the other, not acoustical symmetry of the call [120,121]. Hence, althougha = =
yet examined, voice patches could be more similar to those promising investigation, there is abundant room for further >
of humans. In fact, taking into account all relevant studies progress in determining the localization of voice areas inchim-
and combining the different contrasts and nomenclatures panzees and it would be premature to interpret the observed = =:
used, several voice patches clearly emerge along the STG, lateralized activity. Ry
in both hemispheres of the macaque brain. In a recent {MRI Neuroimaging studies in the different primate species =
study, we scanned three awake macaques and_ three mentioned above are summarized in figure 2, which illus- =
humans using a similar paradigm of passive auditory listen- trates our current knowledge of the putative location of —§ &
ing [82]. We found that CV elicited more activity in the voice patches in the temporal lobe of humans, chimpanzees, =
bilateral anterior STP and the right posterior STG than macaques and marmosets. So
environmental and heterospecific sounds, replicating earlier N
findings. For the first time, however, we found that the CV oo
versus non-CV contrast also recruited the STS in its left (c) Identity processing S
anterior and right posterior portions (black crosses in Speaker identity processing in humans involves both tem- ~
figure 2), as in humans. poral and prefrontal regions with strong right-hemispheric