systems-view to the IS. (ii) Percolation thresholds in the immune system =
After Jerne’s discovery of idiotypic cascades, novel ideas were = S
put forward in trying to understand the organizational prin-

i) Simple constraints for the probability of detection ciples of the IS as a network. Perelson [77] introduced a ~~
Early studies of the IS showed that epitope reactivity for a gen- simple model of the idiotypic cascading phenomenon. Given
eric lymphocyte (B cell or T cell) is of the order 10~°; in other a repertoire of 1 idiotypes (i.e. n different types of antibodies), 3
words, the probability that a random epitope binds to the sur- and assuming that paratopes and epitopes canbe thought ofas =
ace of a lymphocyte is given by p = 10° [74]. This begs the bit-strings of size L (figure 8c), then we will consider thatan &
question: why wouldn't the IS organize such that p ~ 1? antibody can detect (bind to) a given string if the number of = &

In Percus et al. [79], a simple argument was put forward to matched pairs of the ordered paratope-epitope interaction
show that the fact we observe such values of p might be related exceeds a threshold value, @< 1. As we will see, this readily
to the problem of self/non-self recognition, which strongly imposes strong bounds on the system performance.
constrains the way the IS is assembled. Recall that, under Jerne’s paradigm, antibodies are now

Consider the following definitions: n is the total number of capable of matching with other antibody types and concate-
expressed antibody receptors in the IS repertoire, N is the nate into an idiotypic cascade. Thus, we can infer that, for a
number of foreign epitopes for a given environment and N high threshold value (low reactivity), fewer antibodies will be
denotes the number of self epitopes, or epitopes derived from matching, but also fewer antibodies will be able to detect and
cells belonging to the organism. Thus, the goal of the IS is to react to a given antigen. On the other hand, the reverse is
properly distinguish the foreign epitopes while avoiding an also true: for low values of @ (high reactivity), antibodies
immune response to the self-originated ones. Let us denote will be triggered altogether, as the matching probability is
by P(N, N; 1) the probability that the repertoire of size n is expected to increase. Therefore, it is interesting to study what
able to properly detect N foreign epitopes and not detect N type of structure will emerge from this simplified model.