‘oo’ should be rarely observed in the presence of predators. verbs (e.g. ‘listen, look’ and ‘look, listen’). In such cases, simi- 3

larly to children’s ‘mom, milk’ example (see §2), recipients are S

not required to use grammatical rules to understand the
(b) Japanese tit phrase meaning. However, when syntax operates, grammatical
A stronger case of compositional syntax has been provided in tules determine the semantic relationship between constituent
Japanese tits. These birds produce alert calls when warning words and even their parts of speech [3]. For example, in the
conspecifics about predators, while they produce acoustically phrase ‘green light’, ‘green’ is the adjective and ‘light’ is the
distinct, recruitment calls when attracting conspecifics noun. When the word order is switched to ‘light green’, how-
[14,54]. Interestingly, Japanese tits combine these two call ever, ‘green’ is the noun and ‘light’ is the adjective. Although
types into alert-recruitment call sequences when recruiting it is largely unclear whether animals have evolved parts of
conspecifics to mob a stationary predator [14]. Playback speech like humans, the fact that tits fail to exhibit an appropri-
experiments showed that tits display different behaviours ate response to reversed call sequences indicates that they use
when hearing alert calls (moving their head horizontally as grammatical rules to determine the semantic relationship
if scanning for danger) and recruitment calls (approaching between constituent calls.

the sound source, i.e. the presumed signaller). In response
to alert-recruitment call sequences, tits combine both beha-

viours, ie. they progressively approach the sound source (c) Southern pied babbler
while continuously scanning the horizon [54]. Receivers do Southern pied babblers (Turdoides bicolor) might also have
not seem to produce these two behaviours merely by exhibit- evolved a similar type of compositional syntax [58]. These
ing responses to the two meaningful units at the same time, birds produce alert calls when perceiving a suddenly appear-
because they reduce their response to the artificially reversed ing non-dangerous animal, while they produce recruitment