(while possibly losing a position of leadership in their village (60.0%: 61.6% of second cousins, 7.6% of first cousins and
of origin) [5], a situation that can be lessened by marrying a 0.5% of avuncular relationship, p-value < 0.01, electronic
woman from the same village [6]. Consequently, in popu- supplementary material, table S2). In addition, C populations
lations following a matrilocal residence rule but with also had a higher proportion of individuals whose parents
no matrilineal descent group (i.e. cognatic populations), we were related compared to P populations (p-value < 0.01).

could expect a similar preference for endogamous marriages We observed variation within groups in terms of inbreed-
as in matrilineal populations. The populations under study ing coefficient (figure 2 and electronic supplementary
are presented in table 1 (their geographical location is shown material, table S3). In particular, the Kreung population had
in electronic supplementary material, figure S1). a significantly higher inbreeding level than other C popu-

lations (F = 0.026 compared to 0.014 on average for the other
C populations). This may relate to the fact that their effective

a

2. Results size is lower (only significantly so compared to the Khmer) = =:

, than the effective population size estimated for the other cog- 5!
(a) Estimation of village endogamy natic populations (see table 1 and electronic supplementary PA
We estimated the village endogamy rate (as a proxy for local material , tables S4 and S5). In addition, the Khmu’ population =
endogamy) for each population from ethno-demographic had a significantly higher inbreeding coefficient than other P = &
information collected by the research team for 3261 couples populations (F = 0.022 compared to 0.0067 on average for the 3
(figure 1). The village endogamy rate was defined as the pro- other P populations). Contrary to the case of the Kreung, this = 3
portion of couples for which both spouses were born in the does not seem to be linked to differences in effective population — ~~