quantitative risk assessments similar to those described owing to poultry-to-poultry transmission. Pathogen geno- >
above have not yet been conducted. In addition, there is cur- mics plays an increasingly important role in identifying = _
rently no routine wildlife surveillance for spillover of avian spillover events, but inference can still be limited by spillover = =
influenza at the wildlife—livestock interface. Future risk frequency, sampling designs, availability of metadata, 5!
modelling in North America is likely to encounter similar substitution rate and genome size [46]. a
challenges to those described above. Donor host population We have focused on case studies of avian influenza and =
distributions, densities (6,) and movement (m) over time brucellosis at the wildlife—livestock interface, but the chal- =
have been estimated at coarse spatial scales (200 x 200 km) lenges we encountered are likely to be similar to many =
from waterfowl banding and recovery data (e.g. [43]), but human systems. First, datasets may not align in space and =
producer-level risk would require finer spatial resolution. time, which requires a statistical model to predict the
Like our cattle example, poultry farm locations are not unsampled areas and times across the multiple datasets Ss
publicly available in the USA for privacy reasons and must using the available information. For avian influenza, this pro- ea
be estimated from survey data. Additionally, limited data blem can be exacerbated by the fact that there are many
exist on backyard poultry production, which has lower potential donor host species that can move long distances
biosecurity relative to commercial operations, but can interact in short periods of time such that it can be difficult to
with the commercial and live-bird markets. Therefore, it is obtain samples from all relevant hosts in the same place at
an important component in overall spillover risk [44]. the same time. Thus, disease dynamics and spillover ris
Surveillance at the wildlife—livestock interface is critical to are highly variable in space and time. Second, data on wild-
observe spillover and spillback mechanisms in real time, life distributions tend to be sparse and sampled at a coarse
and ultimately to develop risk assessment frameworks for spatial and temporal scale, while we would often like to
North America. know risk to agricultural producers or people at a muc

finer scale. This issue was even more difficult in the GsGD
HPAIV case study where the full scope of competent reser-
voir species remains poorly understood, and species-level