Populations in blue (squares) and P populations in yellow (triangles). multilocal populations with final settlement in the wife’s vil-
(Online version in colour.) lage. Replication of this study in fully matrilocal populations
is warranted.
linear mixed model). Consequently, the matrilineal descent Despite these limitations, our study not only suggests that
tule is probably not the main component exerting a constraint the matrilineal puzzle is still in action in present-day Southeast
over male migrations. As pointed out by A. Richards, under Asia but also that such a puzzle shapes genetic diversity pat-
any form of matrilocal marriage (whatever the descent rule terns in human populations, thus identifying a new cultural
is), men find themselves, at least initially, in a position of sub- factor contributing to genetic diversity patterns among
jection in their wives’ villages (while possibly losing a position human populations. It has previously been shown that
of leadership in their natal village), an ‘irksome’ situation that genetic inbreeding levels are greatly influenced by the preva-
can be avoided by marrying a woman from the same village lence of consanguineous marriages in human populations
[5]. As such, the ‘matrilineal puzzle’ could be renamed [33,50-55]. Our study shows that the association of matrilocal-
the ‘matrilocal puzzle’ in order to express the fact that it ity with local endogamy, which takes root in male dominance,
seems to affect not only matrilineal populations but also all may also contribute to some extent to higher inbreeding levels
matrilocal populations. in human populations, thus revealing an additional layer of
Our interdisciplinary study has a number of limitations. We complexity to the interactions between socio-cultural factors
could expect populations facing the matrilineal puzzle to exhi- and human genetic diversity patterns.
bit not only a higher rate of village endogamy but also smaller It remains to be investigated whether our result can be
distances between villages when couples are exogamous. How- generalized to other matrilocal populations. It is likely to be
ever, our ethno-demographic dataset did not allow us to so, as high endogamy has been reported by anthropologists
measure the geographical distance between spouses’ natal vil- as a general feature of matrilocal populations [6,19]. From
lages. Consequently, we used the rate of village endogamy as our study, we can predict that other matrilocal populations
a proxy for local endogamy in this study. In addition, our will have higher genetic inbreeding levels than populations
ethno-demographic dataset may suffer from certain sampling sharing the same environment, the same way of life, belong-
