The behavioural ecological perspective is highly relevant tation to capture how it is not only physical alterations = &
also to the current, controversial, push for ‘compassionate con- but sometimes also purely behavioural mechanisms, that iat
servation’, which aims to integrate principles of animal welfare reduce connectivity between populations in response to
and conservation [44,45]. Although setting both conservation human presence in a landscape [48]. &
and welfare priorities will always entail moral judgement, a Examining social networks, Meise et al. show how cli- S
thorough scientific understanding is essential to inform matic changes, and the presence of migrants, can affect Ss
decisions on how the two value systems involved are best inte- social relationships between species, and thereby community
grated. Behavioural ecology is in a primary position to provide structure, in a case study of African savannah herbivores [21].
guidance as it offers both the ecoevolutionary understanding Staying on the African savannah, but focusing on the preda-
needed to weight conservation priorities, and a fundamental tor community, Green ef al. then point out how monitoring
insight into animal cognition which is central to assess changes in the behaviour of a key species, the spotted
emotional states and suffering in animals and hence to hyaena (Crocuta crocuta), can predict the population
weight welfare priorities. In fact, the behavioural ecological dynamics, not only of the species itself but also of other
approach is likely to resolve current disagreements as welfare predators [49]. Next, Dobson et al. turn their attention to pre-
issues will often be addressed most effectively by maintaining dicting the behaviour of people and demonstrate how
or re-establishing the natural systems under which animals innovative integration of SNA and ABM can elucidate the
have evolved to function, providing an additional argument effectiveness of conservation interventions that depend
for land-sparing. on social relationships, in this case, sharing of information

on sanctions for rule-breaking [35]. Zooming in on disease
transmission, Silk ef al. follow on by reviewing how recent
epidemiological modelling using SNA integrates demogra-
phy and information on social behaviour to further our

4. Overview of contributions