presence of direct kin as opposed to non-kin [39]. Similarly, for signal production proposed by Townsend ef al. [12], per-
male domestic chickens were found to increase the frequency haps surprisingly, some of the strongest candidates are two
of food calls when a female was present compared to when species of fish. Grouper fish and coral trout perform a ‘head-
they were alone [40], and male Siamese fighting fish produce stand’ to signal the location of prey to cooperative hunting
fewer aggressive signals towards other males, when there is partners, and this is considered to be referential communi-
a female audience [41]. In fruit flies, the genotypic composition cation [46]. This signal meets the main criteria for intentional
of the social group significantly impacts the overall levels of signalling, including being seemingly goal-directed (showing
pheromone signal production, as well as when chemical sig- persistence, elaboration and cessation when goal is met), reci-
nals are produced [42,43]. Such findings show that complex pient-directed and eliciting a response from the recipient that
audience effects are found across taxa, with signals being is in line with the goal. It is one of the few empirical demon-
affected not just by the presence of an audience, but by that strations that meets all of the intentionality criteria set by
audience’s composition. We, therefore, need to question Townsend et al. in a single communication system [12], provid-
whether volitional control over signal production is, in fact, ing more solid evidence than most primate species to date.
widespread in the animal kingdom, or whether audience More recently, convincing evidence of intentional communi-
effects are not strong markers of volitional control. cation has also been found in Arabian babblers [47], and it is
Miklosi and colleagues [44], move away from basic audi- likely that the wider application of Townsend et al.’s criteria
ence effects and argue that dogs produce intentional will reveal more intentional communication across a broader
‘showing’ signals to human owners to indicate the location range of species.
of a hidden toy. ‘Showing’ was defined as a communicative These studies suggest that a diverse range of species
action involving both a directional ‘pointing’ component deploy some form of intentional signalling and that intentional
(head orientation towards the hidden toy) and an attention- signal production may not be restricted to large-brained mam-
getting component (barking and gazing at owner). When the mals. It is, therefore, unclear whether first-order intentional
dogs observed an experimenter hiding a toy in one of three signal production is simply widespread in the animal king-
inaccessible locations in the room, and the naive owner then dom, or whether different processes are underpinning the
entered, the dogs exhibited gaze alternation between the same behavioural patterns in different taxa. Given that the