managers listen to scientific advice, their political leaders Managers must often respond quickly to requests for =
may not necessarily follow scientific recommendations, par- information or advice from Ministers or other members of gov- — &
ticularly when they need to act quickly, despite scientific ernment. Thus, all managers, to some extent, depend on the iat
uncertainty [2]. This can result in conflicts and frustrations knowledge they have acquired through years of experience >
between managers and scientists, which can be exacerbated working within protected areas [22] and from their direct inter-
when there is a lack of transparency and scientific engagement actions with scientists, as well as from reading scientific papers. S
over decision-making processes. However, while relevant information may be available in ©

A lack of cooperation between scientists, and with the wider reports and publications, it is often not in appropriate formats ~
conservation non-governmental organization sector, is a source for managers when responding to urgent requests for scientific
of frustration to managers. This includes receipt of multiple advice. In such circumstances, managers have expressed a
research applications to work on the same species at the same need for access to primary data, because such data can be
site from different scientists, when they could, in fact, work more easily used to address a specific question.

together. Wildlife are a limited resource, and interventions,

such as immobilization to fit a radio collar, for example, carry

a small, but non-negligible risk, and should only be undertaken 2. Im proving scientist — manager rel ationships
when necessary, and researchers should avoid unnecessary
duplication of this type of research [23]. Moreover, opportunities
for synergies between scientists working on different species
and systems can be lost, either because of a lack of cooperation,
or because of a lack of awareness of each other’s research activi-
ties. The increasing need for multidisciplinary science to