Jackendoff’s (2002) model of linguistic semantics closely and as speaking words and pointing) over invisible mental con- z
is also consonant with Chomsky’s model [3,4]. Both Hurford structs. But it has fallen by the wayside in modern
[2] and Bickerton [5] have explored its implications for cognitive science—at least regarding human language
language evolution at book length [2,5], as have I more briefly [3,14]. The alternative mentalist perspective (also termed
[1]. My aim here is simply to argue this crucial point sharply the ‘internalist’ or ‘conceptualist’ perspective, [3,4]) holds
and concisely, for although these ideas should not be contro- that words do not refer directly to things in the world, but
versial, they are rejected by some prominent philosophers, rather express our (mind-internal) concepts. To paraphrase
and even when accepted, their implications are ignored in Strawson ‘words don’t refer, people refer’ [15]. The concepts
many recent discussions of language evolution (e.g. [6,7]). we express linguistically may correspond to real entities in
The central implication of my thesis is that the field of the world, but in many cases (e.g. ‘Sherlock Holmes’, ‘the
animal cognition has a very important role to play in our unicorn in my dream’), they do not.
understanding of human language evolution because the The modern mentalist perspective in cognitive science
fact that animals have concepts (whether expressible via sig- sees acts of referring (e.g. by speaking) as being indirect.
nalling or not) erases a potentially gaping evolutionary That is, reference involves two separable phenomena
chasm that would exist if they did not. Apparent discontinu- (figure 1): first a mental representation of an entity is recog-
ities between humans and animal cognition that ‘pose a nized, recalled or otherwise activated, and second some
severe challenge for evolutionary explanation’ ([6], p.3), utterance is produced which may, if successful, elicit a similar
may in fact be based on discontinuities between language though not identical mental representation in the listener. For
and other species’ communication systems. This elision example, observing a cat walk behind a tree, I may form a
between two different things—cognition and communi- mental representation of CAT BEHIND TREE. This complex
cation—is at best misleading and often pernicious. The concept is the first step in reference: a correspondence
study of animal communication is indeed important for com- between real-world events (e.g. visual patterns interpreted
parative analysis of language evolution, most obviously as cats and trees) and the resulting mental representation.
relevant for factors involved in externalization, such as Generating this particular non-verbal concept is accom-
vocal learning, speech perception and gestural communi- plished by the visual system, is private, and (I argue below)