motivations for taking part in the research. Furthermore, this mental imagery was an important element of the design, as S
method also raises the possibility of excluding participants mental imagery is not a unitary construct [19]. Consequently, — ~~
from the sample who are unaware that they have synaesthesia, we selected an imagery task related to object imagery and S
resulting in an unrepresentative sample of synaesthetes. another related to spatial imagery. To test the ability to gener- 8
Indeed, Simner [11] has suggested that results showing ate and inspect a visual mental image, participants completed
synaesthetes reporting enhanced imagery may be driven by the ‘Animal Tails Task’ [47]. In this task, participants are
this recruitment bias, as those synaesthetes with vivid imagery asked to visualize a series of animals and make a size-based
are more likely to be aware of their synaesthesia, and so in turn, decision about the animal’s tail (animals chosen for the task
more likely to self-refer to researchers. are not characteristically associated with their tail). Determin-

The current study therefore was designed to explore the ing the size or shape of animal features has been shown to
relationship between grapheme CPC and mental imagery abil- involve the invocation and inspection of mental images as
ities. Instead of recruiting synaesthete and non-synaesthete these facts are typically only encoded visually [48], and the
participants, we recruited from the general population and task has previously been used to explore the relationship
did not specifically mention synaesthesia until the very end of between visual imagery and visual perception [49,50].
the study. The expectation is that this will eliminate, or at least Furthermore, participants completed a Mental Rotation
reduce, any demand characteristics arising from awareness of Task (MRT-A) [51] that assesses the ability to mentally
our focus on synaesthesia [45]. It will also allow the possible rotate three-dimensional abstract blocks. The studies to date
recruitment of individuals who are unaware of having that have explored mental rotation abilities of synaesthetes
synaesthesia, providing a fuller picture of the relationship have focused on sequence-space synaesthesia, so it is not
between mental imagery and synaesthesia. known whether grapheme-colour synaesthesia would be

As a measure of synaesthete-like behaviour, participants associated with an enhanced ability to perform mental
completed a grapheme colour-picking task to record their rotation. We also included proxy measures of numeracy
CPC (based on [46]). In this task, participants were presented and IQ to control for possible confounding factors.