between hosts via vectors—which is a route of transmission for forecasting numbers of cases [82] or representing pro-
for a number of pathogens of humans, plants and animals. cesses such as disease surveillance [83]. In this issue,
In this theme issue, Alonso et al. [74] consider a complex com- Bourhis ef al. [84] link a statistical approach for estimating
partmental model of malaria that accounts for features such infection prevalence to the susceptible—infected compart-
as superinfection of human hosts, and Chowell et al. [75] use mental model to account for temporal variations in the
a model including pathogen transmission via mosquitoes to number of infected hosts during an outbreak.
consider the impacts of hurricanes on epidemic dynamics. The optimal type of model to use depends on the questions
As well as being able to address questions that are common of interest in the particular host—pathogen system under con-
to diseases of humans, plants and animals, compartmen- sideration, and the wide range of available models reflects
tal models can account for differences between systems the increasing number of data sources described in the pre-
comprising these different host types. As an example, cryptic vious section. For example, analyses of pathogen sequencing
infectiousness has been included in plant disease models to data have been linked with models of epidemic dynamics lead-
represent the fact that some hosts become infectious before ing to the field of phylodynamics [85,86]. This issue includes a
the onset of symptoms (see [70,71] and figure 3b top), whereas review paper by Lycett et al. [59] in which the history of
simple models of Ebola virus disease in humans have incorpor- avian influenza is summarized, including the inference of
ated the onset of infectiousness following a non-infectious but transmission routes using phylodynamic methods (figure 3d).
symptomatic period (see [72,73] and figure 3b bottom). Such a wide range of modelling approaches provides a
There are a number of other differences between human, suite of techniques for forecasting and planning control
animal and plant disease systems that require different epidemio- when epidemics are ongoing.
logical modelling approaches. Perhaps the most obvious of these
is host movement. Plant populations are typically stationary and (d) Foreca sting and control
livestock are contained within strict boundaries, whereas As described in §1, mathematical modelling is increasingly
humans have significantly more freedom of movement that per- used in real-time when epidemics are ongoing for forecasting
mits long-distance pathogen transmission. However, plant hosts (figure 4a) and testing interventions (figure 4b). This has led
can be motile—for example in plant trade networks—and animal to the field named ‘outbreak analytics’ in the context of patho-