bility is that, during song development, zebra finches do not ble structure seems to be the dominant mechanism in zebra
attend to the sequential patterns of whole motifs, but instead finch song communication. Recent findings from song tutor-
focus on learning the spectro-temporal features of smaller ing experiments are tantalizing in this regard. Lipkind et al.
chunks of motifs [58,85]. Thus, instead of storing individual [89] manipulated the tutor songs juveniles were exposed to
elements and the transition probabilities between them, and analysed how the birds adjusted their songs to match
the birds may be encoding chunks of sounds (i.e. strings of the new templates. They found that the birds copied changes
consecutive elements) that they eventually produce in a crys- in syllable structure even if it caused errors in sequence,
tallized sequential structure. But if this capability also exists showing that they prioritize efficient learning of syllable
in adulthood, birds should be sensitive to some motif structure at the expense of syllable sequence. These results
sequence manipulations, such as at chunk boundaries, as align with the Braaten et al. [64] notion that zebra finches
adults. Another possibility is that the learned sequential pat- are more sensitive to syllable structure than syllable
terns in zebra finch motifs are due to a combination of innate sequences during juvenile song learning. But none of these
predispositions, involving a mechanism like an auditory tem- findings should distract from the fact that the zebra finch
plate, coupled with some vocal learning and improvisation. does provide an invaluable opportunity to examine the
For instance, James & Sakata [86] tutored naive juvenile relationship between physiological mechanisms for proces-

zebra finches with randomized sequences of syllables and sing syllable structure and syllable sequences and any


changes in those mechanisms that occur over development as
the sensitive period for song learning ends.

4, Proposed model of zebra finch song sequence
perception
