and how emerging SCG provides a promising tool to enhance ing individual cells (reviewed by Blainey [33]). Briefly, the

our knowledge of the genetic make-up of these associations. separation techniques can be divided into two approaches

based on whether the individual cells are selected randomly
(random encapsulation methods) or identified first and then
sorted (micromanipulation methods). The choice of the separ-

2. Genome-wide approaches to studying ation technique is of decisive influence on cell throughput
intracellular associations in unicellular and the micromanipulation approaches (e.g. micropipetting,
optical tweezers) are among those considerably limited by
euka ryotes their speed. Currently, the most common method, fluor-
Over the last decades, the use of easily-maintainable host escence-activated cell sorting (FACS), represents the random
laboratory cultures has been a standard procedure for studying encapsulation approach and excels in speed. Another major
eukaryote intracellular associations [13,14] and our understand- advantage of FACS is the possibility of characterizing cells
ing of the nature of many intracellular associations stems based on different fluorescence signals, e.g. autofluorescence
primarily from whole genome information. The need for from chlorophyll and specific staining for acidic organelles
genomic DNA of sufficient quantity and quality for studying [28], providing some level of selectivity. The sizes of protists
interactions has narrowed the phylogenetic scope of research often make it possible to observe individual cells and their mor-
favouring model hosts grown axenically (ie. isolated as phology under light microscopy, which enables: (i) assigning
single species, under contaminant free conditions) [15,16]. them to a group of target organisms [31]; (ii) examination of
These laboratory model systems lack the higher complexity their current condition in fresh samples; or (iii) identifying the
observed in naturally occurring intracellular associations; for presence of endosymbionts and even their physical separation
example, associations between intracellular entities and a from the host cell [34]. On the technical side, sample preparation
single host cell can vary across natural host populations [17]. may have to be adjusted for some eukaryotic taxa compared to