this technique, here we divide scRNA-seq into four basic
steps and summarize common options for each step (figure 1):
sampling, cell isolation, cell lysis, and library preparation.
Additionally, we discuss specific challenges relevant to apply-
ing scRNA-seq to microbial eukaryotes. We recommend
excellent specific reviews for detailed discussions on the mol-
ecular biology [23,24], performance and estimated costs
[25,26], and data analysis [27,28] aspects of scCRNA-seq.

(a) Sampling and preservation additional advantages such as strict filtering of cell doublets
Sampling strategy is a critical component in capturing the and non-cellular particles (which can be very abundant in
native transcriptomes of the cells of interest (figure 1a). Ideally, environmental samples). Moreover, in the case of complex
fresh cells should be isolated and immediately lysed in an communities in the field, FACS can be used to further target
RNA-stabilizing buffer. However, this is usually not the case, specific cell populations either using intrinsic cell properties
even in a laboratory setting with model organisms. The time (e.g. presence of pigments) or in combination with staining
needed for harvesting samples, dissociating them into single (e.g. against specific organelles).
cells, and isolating cells of interest may affect the RNA compo- A different technology commonly used to isolate single
sition of the cells. This can be particularly dramatic in the case cells is microfluidics [39]. With lab-on-a-chip devices, cell iso-
of unicellular eukaryotes, as changes in cell states/life stages lation, lysis, and other reactions can be integrated into a single
have been shown to be extremely fast in many species [29,30]. chip. The earliest available commercial platform designed
Although most single-cell studies are performed on fresh specifically for single-cell analyses was the Fluidigm Cl
cells, several chemicals have been employed to try to preserve system [40]. Although it is not possible to select cells, the C1
native cell states in animal samples, including methanol [31], system allows imaging of each capture site for the presence
dimethylsulfoxide [32], crosslinkers that require later reverse of single cells and their viability [41]. Fluidigm C1 has been
cross-linking such as paraformaldehyde [33] and dithio-bis- successfully used to isolate single cells of unicellular algae