do not carry cell surface recognition sites [57,62,63], indicating heterotrophic [50] and mixotrophic protists (e.g. figure 1b)
receptor-independent initiation of phagocytosis. In mouse large enough (greater than 3 jm) to resolve sufficient morpho-
phagocytes, receptor-independent phagocytosis can be initiated logical detail, including the plastid, based on fluorescing
by plasma membrane deformation and has been suggested as natural pigments for the latter [33,73]. Microcopy can be used
an evolutionarily ancient form of phagocytosis [64]. So far, avail- to distinguish between ingestion and other forms of physical
able information stems from only a few model organisms that do co-association; however, visualization is challenging for small
not represent the eukaryotic diversity found in aquatic ecosys- cells, such as the pico- and nanoflagellates, as discussed
tems. More is still to be learned on the receptors and initiation above. Flow cytometry more generally detects pigmented
of phagocytosis in environmentally relevant protists. Such eukaryotes (as a population of potential mixotrophs) contain-
information will be required to study the interaction between ing a co-associated signal from putative prey (or microbes
biochemical and behavioural aspects of feeding through, for representing another form of co-association)—if fluorescent—
instance, experimentation with receptor stimulation. Also the and can be used to select and sort these cells by fluorescence
mediation of feeding behaviour by photosynthetic resource activated cell sorting (FACS). The resulting sorted cells can
acquisition in mixotrophs has hardly been studied. be characterized along with the co-sorted putative prey
Full characterization of a predatory mixotroph requires through amplicon sequencing (see below), or by scintillation
both visual observation of ingested prey and quantitative counts of radioactively labelled prey [18,74]. Flow cytometry
experiments on growth benefits resulting from photosynthesis circumvents statistical issues with microscopic imaging if cell
and prey assimilation. However, growth physiology is difficult concentrations are low and offers faster analysis times.
to trace in natural assemblages and therefore several different Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) further refines

methods have been developed to establish mixotrophic identification of the predators and verification of the position


of prey inside the predator because the FISH signal localizes
