(figure 2b). Single cells would be aggregated into low- sequences [3]. In practice, most current polyA-based
granularity clusters, representing taxonomic groups scRNA-seq methods profile rRNA, either because
(figure 2c) and then the composite transcriptome of these some rRNAs can be polyadenylated and/or because
clusters would be used to taxonomically identify the clusters tRNAs are generally very highly expressed. Finally,
(figure 2d), for example using rRNA sequences (see below). the strategy described here aims to be essentially
Finally, downstream analysis within and between clusters of unbiased, so in communities unevenly dominated by a
cells would allow the systematic characterization of few species, only deep single-cell sampling would
(figure 2e): (i) the components/diversity of the community, uncover rarer community components.
similar to what we would obtain from metabarcoding or Gi) Targeting eukaryotic cells and identifying cellular
single-cell genomics; (ii) physiological states among each of interactions. In complex environmental samples it
these components, analogous to what we would obtain would be necessary to discriminate eukaryotic cells
from a metatranscriptomic analysis but with single-cell from non-cellular particles and non-eukaryotes. Cell
resolution; (iii) life cycle stages or temporal cell types for selection through FACS can solve this issue by target-
each of the members of the community; and (iv) microbial ing only cells of interest. FACS additionally allows the
interactions and their associated transcriptional pheno- strict selection of only single cells, which may contain
types. Many of the predictions of these analyses could be within them endosymbionts, prey, parasites and/or
validated by using multiplexed fluorescence in situ hybrid- pathogens. This is another major advantage when
ization [82,83], targeting markers for different temporal studying cell-cell interactions, as it is possible to
cell states/cell types in a particular species or against mar- distinguish between true intracellular interactions
kers for multiple species (to validate interactions and and random aggregates. The latter could be
community composition). removed during cell dissociation/homogenization
However, considering the methodological state-of-the-art before sampling, and FACS would provide a
discussed in ยง2, we foresee important technical and analytical second level of exclusion of doublet or multiplet
challenges associated with realizing single-cell ecology event. In contrast to FACS, droplet microfluidic
experiments of this nature. applications with higher doublet rates may result