GC content of 36.1% compared to 45.7% for the SAG D1 8; cox1, 2, 3; and cob were identified, all of which are genes
genome assembly as a whole and 48.0% for the contigs used known to be encoded in both diplonemid and kinetoplastid
for phylogenomic analysis. Furthermore, tetranucleotide fre- mitochondrial genomes (figure 3a; [22]). Most of the encoded
quencies suggest a clear difference between the two sets of fragments are isolated tracts of amino acid coding sequence
contigs (electronic supplementary material, figure S3). For this that could not be paired with other fragments. The exception
we created an ‘ESOM’ (a type of map based on the underlying was the Cox1 protein, for which six or seven gene modules
distance of—in this case—tetranucleotide frequencies, as indi- were identified that putatively encode a contiguous mature
cated in [50] and https: //github.com/tetramerFreqs/Binning). mRNA (see below). These are present on four different contigs,
As a control, we ‘spiked in’ a viral genome (Escherichia virus and clearly in a scrambled order (e.g. modules 1 and 6 are
T4—NC_000866.4). The map shows a clear split between the nearby on one contig, while modules 4, 3 and 5 are on another,
three sets of contigs: green—T4 virus, orange—phylogenomic in that order; figure 3a). This implies that trans-splicing would
contigs and blue—mitochondrial contigs. The variation in tetra- be necessary to assemble the mature transcript. Given our strict
nucleotide frequencies, lower GC content and specifically the assembly criteria, PCR and resequencing, and the fact that
higher coverage demonstrate that these sequences are genera- these mitochondrial contigs are among the best sampled in
ted from a different genomic template, consistent with the terms of sequencing reads, this represents strong support for
hypothesis that they are mitochondrial contigs and not part of a fragmented gene module structure for cox1.
the nuclear genome. Cox1 protein fragments from SAG D1 and the conserved
Also, consistent with the hypothesis that these are bona fide fragments from representatives of Diplonemidae (the best
mitochondrial genome sequences and are not nuclear mito- studied subgroup of diplonemids) were manually compared
chondrial DNA segment (NUMT) sequences, we find no to determine if splice sites are conserved between diplonemids
evidence of stop codon mutations within the six to seven ident- and our novel lineage (figure 3b). Similar to Diplonema species
ified putative cox1, which would be typical of pseudogenization Cox1 fragments, no post-transcriptional substitution editing
often associated with formation of NUMTs. We cannot directly appeared to be necessary to produce a translatable mRNA.
exclude that the putative mitochondrial contigs were derived Diplonema papillatum and D. ambulator (Diplonemidae) share
from NUMTs and that the mitochondrial gene module orders conserved modules and splice sites; whereas Hemistasia phaeo-