change, with the greatest increases taking place at intermedi- near-universal perception that biodiversity is declining in Brit-
ate (within-region) spatial scales, and declines at very local ain (it is by some metrics), even though it is unequivocally true
(potentially) and global scales. that the total number of species in Britain is increasing, if we
Turnover in the composition of biological communities add all losses and all gains together ([82]; see above). The
through time is also highly relevant and is known to have rate of arrival and establishment of species exceeds the rate
accelerated during periods of rapid environmental change, of extirpation of others. This is not just a UK-centric perspec-
in the Pleistocene and before (see above). It is no surprise, tive. For example, Sala et al.’s [3] renowned global scenarios
therefore, that the rate of turnover in species composition in for future biodiversity explicitly exclude gains of ‘exotic’ species
any given location or region has increased in recent centuries and omit biological communities that are ‘maintained by regu-
[51-53,78]. This is likely to be true at all spatial scales [49], lar human intervention’ [3, p. 1770], thereby implicitly assuming =
even at the global scale, where both extinction and speciation both that there is a correct distribution of species and that =
rates have apparently accelerated [13,17,47,60-63,66,79]. contributions of anthropogenic ecosystems to biodiversity are =
Genetic turnover is also likely to have increased at all spatial negligible (despite the fact that all ecosystems are somewhat — =:
scales, with increased selection in favour of adaptations modified). Neither assumption is consistent with the past, =
to novel environments, allele extinction (associated with popu- recent and future dynamics of species and ecosystems duringa = =
lation, race and species-level extinctions), gene flow (including period of environmental change and human influence. =
establishment of species in new locations) and the establish- This apparent preference for what we already have, or = &
ment of novel mutations which provide increased fitness in used to have, is reflected in the United Nations Sustainable =
anthropogenic environments. We can confidently predict that Development Goals, the Convention on Biological Diversity >
species and gene turnover will continue apace in coming Aichi targets, the legislation of individual countries, and the N
decades, as they respond to multiple human-associated mission statements of numerous global and national non- ©
drivers of change—and show lagged responses to events governmental organizations and corporations. By contrast, =
that have already taken place. the same conventions, legislatures and organizations typically

refer to recently successful species in the condemnatory