among beneficiaries [64] and that households provided and high rainfall events. Beneficiaries, who receive wages
labour both through PSNP and as voluntary uncompensated equalling 99% of the minimum wage rate, are expected to
labour to build community assets for soil and water conserva- register with PET [69]. Disbursements of earned income
tion [65]. Perhaps the most direct evidence about the occur within a week of work having been carried out. Data
contribution of the PSNP’s land management to climate goals on programme implementation are collected and managed
comes from Woolf et al., who estimate that the programme through an electronic database, with particular attention to
reduced net GHG emissions at the national scale by 3.4 million grievances and accountability. Programme evaluation is
Mg COz¢ per year, contributing ‘1.5% of Ethiopia’s Nationally mainly available in the form of feedback by beneficiaries
Determined Contribution to the Paris Agreement’ [66, p. 1260]. and tends to be high—but external evaluations have not yet
Indeed, Ethiopia’s Nationally Determined Contribution been carried out. As a result, only limited generalizations
for the Paris climate agreement focuses, in common with can be made about the effectiveness of PET, especially
that of India, on the need to enhance the adaptive capacities when compared with Mexico’s flagship Oportunidades pro-
of ecosystems, communities and infrastructure through reha- gramme and despite the fact that PET is the largest
bilitation. It recognizes that such rehabilitation of ‘degraded employment scheme in Latin America.
ecosystems and lands will also increase the resilience...to In some contrast to the examples of India and Ethiopia, the
droughts and floods’ [24]. Ethiopia’s adaptation plan also relationship between Mexico’s PET and natural capital out-
highlights the potential of nature-based solutions such as comes is less clear. For example, Mexico has committed in its
agroforestry, sustainable afforestation and biodiversity corri- Nationally Determined Contribution to the UNFCCC that it
dors for improving the incomes and material wellbeing of will bring deforestation down to 0% by 2030, reforest water-
poor and vulnerable peoples (see Nature-based Solutions sheds, guarantee food security through integrated watershed
Policy Platform: www.nbspolicyplatform.org). management, conserve and restore ecosystems, and increase

carbon capture through a system of conservation and recovery
of marine ecosystems (see Nature-based Solutions Policy Plat-
