data suggest that the loss of UCP1 in BAT places the burden of (b) Sarcolipin-based thermogenesis in mammals

thermogenesis on muscle, which responds with an increased lacking brown adipose tissue

recruitment of SLN-based thermogenesis in the skeletal muscle. Not all eutherian mammals are endowed with BAT function.
Interestingly, cold-adapted muscles from both the models also UCP1 gene was inactivated in numerous placental mammal
showed structural and biochemical changes in the muscle, clades (e.g. horses, whales, elephants, sea cows, hyraxes,
including an increase in mitochondrial content and proteins sloths) and a number of these groups have species that are
involved in fatty acid oxidation. Although the detailed mechan- extremely cold tolerant, suggesting the existence of alternate
ism leading to activation and coordination of muscle NST is NST mechanisms [111,112]. The whole swine family lost the
not completely understood, we found that cold adaptation UCP! protein due to disruptions in the gene about 20 Ma
causes significant alterations in the components of Ca”* cycling [113]. This does not limit the swine family to a tropical
including changes in protein expression and the phosphorylation region; in fact, they are quite successful in adapting to
status of RYR1 [71,107]. Phosphorylation of RYR1 molecules colder climates. Interestingly, some of the wild boars
makes them inherently leaky and can set the cycle of SR Ca”* imported to Canada escaped and expanded to alarming
release and reuptake, which would recruit SLN-mediated NST. numbers in several areas where the temperature can fall

We also explored whether SLN and UCP1 play complimen- below —20°C indicating their robust thermogenic capacity.

tary and/or compensatory roles during cold adaptation. We So far, it has been largely believed that swine species main-
chose to acclimatize WT and SLN-KO mice to a mild cold of tain T. purely by shivering. Recently, a study challenged this
16°C and then to severe cold of 4°C [72]. Interestingly, mild idea and performed experiments to document the existence
cold exposure of SLN-KO mice led to super induction of of NST in wild boars. In this study, Nowack et al. [114] exposed
UCP1 in BAT tissue and enhanced beiging of WAT when com- new-born wild boar piglets to cold (below 10°C) over their first
pared with WT mice. The finding that even a mild cold of 16°C 5 days of life. The data illustrate that although mass-specific