plementary material, table 54). The variable N-terminal ition of the Golgi apparatus, which is located around the
domains were also compared against these databases (elec- nucleus, and that the network structure corresponds to the
tronic supplementary material, table S5). This revealed that endoplasmic reticulum [6]. No YFP fluorescence was visible
the N-terminal domains of five proteins (Ac26560, Ac13218, on the cell surface or in the adhesive trails.

Ac6233, Ac1589, Ac643) are specific to raphid diatoms, As the YFP-tagging strategy proved to be rather ineffi-
while the N-terminal domain of protein Ac1396 did not cient for localizing the proteins, polyclonal antibodies were
share homology with any proteins in the diatom databases. raised against two proteins (Ac629 and Ac1442) to allow
The N-terminal domains of the six other proteins exhibited immunolocalization studies. Antibodies were raised against
sequence homology to proteins from all diatom classes. At protein Ac629, which was selected as a representative of the
present we cannot rule out the possibility that the absence of GDPH domain containing proteins. The antibodies against
GDPH domain bearing proteins in some species in the Ac629 (aAc629) showed specific labelling of the adhesive
MMETSP database may be due to the fact that some of the trails (figure 3a), so-called footprints (i.e. adhesive material
sequenced transcriptomes are incomplete, with either trun- from a sessile cell; figure 3b) and material associated with
cated transcripts or low detection/identification of transcripts. the cell wall precisely in the regions of the raphe slits

(figure 3c,d). The unusual cell wall architecture of species
from the genus Amphora, in which both raphe systems lie

(d) Localization of GDPH motif containing proteins on the same ventral valve (figure 1d), results in parallel
To investigate the cellular localization of the GDPH domain tracks of adhesive material (figures 1c and 3a). In all cases,
bearing proteins we attempted to express five of these proteins the fluorescent signal appeared to be composed of globular
(Ac1442, Ac643, Ac629, Ac3782, Ac26560) in A. coffeaeformis as particles. Larger agglomerates of the globular Ac629 bearing
C-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) fusion proteins. particles were often observed at one end of the adhesive trail
The resulting transformants were screened by fluorescence (arrow in figure 3a). Correlative time-lapse video microscopy