failure of specific cross-links. This pattern occurs when the ably accelerate the dissociation, as it is a ligand for these s
glue is extended to any strain between 0 and 5, indicating ions. Nevertheless, these metal ions seem unlikely to serve s
that failure of sacrificial bonds is continuous rather than as the primary cross-links, given that they dissociate rapidly 5
occurring at a specific yield point. Thus, as the material while the primary cross-links have a relatively long bond
extends, sacrificial bonds break, such that the material is lifetime.
much less stiff when returned to its initial length. Perhaps the abundance of calcium and magnesium
When repeated tests are performed to progressively larger merely reflects the need to balance charge on the polyanionic
strains, a striking pattern emerges. When re-extended after a polysaccharides and to control glue structure. The ability of
cycle, the curve matches the previous unloading phase, right divalent ions to balance charge may allow the polyanionic
up to the maximum extension of the previous loop. Essen- polysaccharides to fold up extensively, providing hidden
tially, once the sacrificial bonds are broken in a given strain length (figure 7). Because of electrostatic interactions, these
range, there is a weak, residual elastic component that ions would contribute somewhat to the glue’s mechanics.
behaves consistently in the tensile test. Going beyond the This would be consistent with the fact that glue samples
previous maximum extension appears to engage new cross- soaked for 5 min, which have lost a substantial fraction of
links, and the modulus is once again the same as the original their calcium and magnesium, have lower stiffness than
modulus. This continues until the extension is reversed again. unsoaked glue. Furthermore, the failure of these interactions
Notably, the total area under the curves only depends on the may be responsible for the initial drop in stress during stress
ultimate strain; it does not depend on how many loading— relaxation experiments. The presence of similar amounts of
unloading cycles were used to reach that strain. Since the calcium and matrilin-like calcium-binding proteins in
area under the curve corresponds to the total energy dissi- adhesive and non-adhesive forms of mucus, such as the ven-
pated during extension, and the dissipation appears to be tral mucus used in locomotion, would be consistent with the
due to the failure of sacrificial bonds, then one can conclude idea that these ions contribute to mechanics, but do not form
that the glue behaves as if there are a finite number of sacri- the primary sacrificial bonds of the glue [11,28].
ficial bonds. Once these sacrificial bonds are broken, they no Because the calcium and magnesium are not bound
longer contribute to stiffness. tightly into the glue, other bonds may form the sacrificial