between charged polymers. It is significant that in a previous =
tudy, high salt concentration did not disrupt the gel-stiffen- j a
study, high salt concentratio: ot disrupt the gel-stiffer 4, Conclusion -

ing activity of the primary glue proteins, and did not help . =
break up complexes in the glue sufficiently to solubilize the The glue produced by the terrestrial slug A. subfuscus behaves S

proteins [30]. as a stiff, visco-elastic material. Its performance is consistent —

An unusual feature of the glue is that, despite showing with the double network mechanism. It is stably TOSS S
marked hysteresis in cyclic stress-strain curves up to a linked, creating a markedly stiff sel, yet these cross-links
strain of 5, the material still recoils to its original shape in break continuously as the gel is stretched, dissipating S
an elastic manner after stretching. In fact, it stays taut through energy: Because the glue must be stretched to high stains =
the entire unloading cycle. Visually, it appears as elastic as a before failure, the continuous failure of sacrificial bonds
rubber band and the energy dissipation is only apparent leads to a large energy dissipation and thus a high fracture
when viewing the measured stress relative to strain. One energy: These sacrificial bonds begin to reform within min-
explanation for this could be if the deformable network or utes of failure. Although calcium and magnesium are
an additional component of the glue behaves as an elastomer. highly abundant, they do not appear to contribute as the pri-
Ina double-network, while the stiff network is constantly dis- mary sacrificial bonds. These ions are rapidly removed from
rupted to dissipate energy, the deformable network is the glue at all pH values tested. There appear to be other pH-
extending to redistribute stresses. This extension might sensitive bonds that play a more prominent role.

involve a relatively small amount of energy to drive molecu- Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this article have been

lar rearrangement, unfolding or straightening of the uploaded as part of the electronic supplementary material.