contact with smaller carnivores and more likely to see large logical records would be directly radiocarbon dated to ensure
carnivores as competitors for both wild prey and domestic live- that chronologies for investigating faunal turnover and extinc-
stock, and so might have disproportionately targeted these tion were comparably accurate and consistent across datasets.
species. Indeed, large carnivores are more likely to be involved However, given the sheer quantity of data generated from
in human-wildlife conflict than smaller carnivores for these archaeological sites and the costs involved in absolute dating,
reasons today [68]. Large carnivores such as wolf (Canis this is unfortunately still rarely a realistic option. >
lupus) and brown bear (Ursus arctos) were also the focus of Our results also reveal periods of increased accumulation of 5
recreational hunting in mediaeval Europe [67]. Holocene zooarchaeological records over time. This pattern = =
Although the spatial spread of zooarchaeological data was might reflect periods of prehistoric human population increase. >
uneven across Europe, we found that the relative wealth of a For example, there is a notable increase in our accumulation — __
country did not influence research output across European curve from approximately AD 500 to AD 1200, coincident =
countries once geographical size was taken into account. This with the Mediaeval period, during which there was an esti- 5!
pattern may partly reflect the fact that archaeology is a fairly mated six-fold increase in human population in Europe = =
international endeavour and therefore academics will often and evidence for associated large-scale forest clearance [75]. =
fund, carry out or collaborate on excavations in countries Increased pressure on wildlife populations could therefore = &
other than their own. For example, within our study area, potentially have led to increased numbers of zooarchaeological =
there is a strong international academic presence in Anatolian records found within these sites. Conversely, it has been 3
archaeology [69] and parts of the Caucasus [70]. Furthermore, demonstrated that younger components will always be more s
even where research funds are reduced, countries can nonethe- abundant than older components in the archaeological record s
less have strong traditions of academic research and achieve owing to increased taphonomic destruction of older faunal =
relatively high research outputs through the efforts of only a remains and greater detectability of stratigraphically higher
few researchers. A final reason may be that the literature samples [76]. These temporal trends therefore indicate that
searches carried out to compile the database included grey lit- we have more abundant and precise records of faunal occur-
erature in numerous European languages as well as research rence nearer the present, with important implications for
published in international journals, and therefore reached a using zooarchaeological datasets of faunal records through