5 02b 3 5 02-
a . a ‘Ss .
za
° <4
| rd] a | a
ol ob " os Oo
RESTI-REST2 RESTI-RUN REST2-RUN EV REV null clustered

Figure 4. Population and ensemble activities are stable following task exposure. (a) For each session, we took the upper triangle of the correlation
matrices for the firing rate vectors of all cells for each individual imaging block (n=3 mice; n=13 sessions). We computed the Pearson correlation
between the correlation coefficients of the cell-pairs as a measure of similarity between the population activity structure across the three imaging
blocks. The mean and standard errors of the resulting Pearson correlation coefficients are shown (one-way ANOVA; ***p < 0.001). The lack of significant
difference between RESTI—RUN and REST2—RUN possibly reflected the fact that the animals were already highly experienced on the task. (6) Explained

2
variance was calculated as EV = (te — ReunpestaReesrirest2) /' / (1 — Ruy aesti)(1 — Rest =) , where the R-values correspond to Pearson correlation coef-

ficients in (a) [39,40]. These values were controlled against the reverse explained variance (REV). REV was obtained using the same equation, but by substituting REST2 with
REST1 epochs and vice versa. EV was significantly higher than REV, suggesting that reactivation had occurred (p = 0.0183; Wilcoxon rank sum test; n = 13 sessions; n = 3
mice; white dot, median; box, first and last quartiles; whiskers, minimum and maximum values; solid dots, outliers). (c) To assess the fraction of neurons that remained co-
active after RUN, we calculated a stability index O/(N, + N. — 0), where N, is the number of co-active neurons detected in REST1, N is the number of co-active neurons
detected in REST2 and 0 is the number of neurons that were co-active during both resting blocks. To determine how likely it was that the resulting values were obtained by
chance, we estimated the expected number of overlapping neurons between the two blocks as the expected value of the corresponding hypergeometric distribution (shown as
‘null’. The average p-value from the hypergeometric distribution, indicating how likely it is that the proportion of overlap 0 was due to chance, is reported.
