Teprocessing and consolidation. (6) Oscillatory synchrony in the 11-16 Hz spindle frequency band is thought to reflect cross-structural reactivation, reorganization and
consolidation of motor memory traces within subcortical—cortical networks involving the hippocampus (yellow), striatum (putamen in orange and caudate nucleus
in blue), thalamus (green) and motor-related cortical regions (red).

(ie. more than 6s from region-specific neighbouring spin- Atan intermediate mesoscale (0.2-0.3 Hz) between the infra-
dles). Importantly, we have demonstrated that such groups slow periodicities of spindle trains and spindle oscillations
of spindles play a more critical role than isolated ones in themselves (11-16 Hz), there is also converging evidence that
motor memory consolidation, as several metrics related to spindles within trains undergo periods of refractoriness of
spindle trains (i.e. length of spindle trains, number of trains, about 3-6 s [23]. This finely tuned alternance between region-
ratio between clustered versus isolated spindles) were posi- specific spindle events and refractory periods has recently been
tively correlated with the magnitude of overnight memory proposed to be of paramount importance for optimal segre-
improvements. Finally, our findings [24,56] demonstrated gation of spindle events and interference-free reprocessing of
that the relationship between spindle trains and procedural memory traces. In fact, such temporally coordinated spindles
memory consolidation is observed during NREM stage 2, and periods of refractoriness are thought to be critical for efficient
but not stage 3, sleep. Hence, this suggests that spindles, reprocessing and offline consolidation of both declarative and
which iteratively occur locally within clustered and tem- non-declarative procedural memories, respectively, during
porally organized patterns during NREM stage 2 sleep, are SWS-rich deep sleep [23,57] and light NREM stage 2 sleep
most effective in reactivating and further consolidating [5,56]. However, the question as to whether spindles belonging
specific motor memories. Interestingly, support for the latter to the same ‘trains’ mediate the repeated reactivation of a
pattern of results comes from Lecci et al. [54] who have unique memory content, or whether they trigger the reactivation
demonstrated that an infraslow rhythmicity of 0.02 Hz in of several previously learned memories, remains unanswered.
spindle activity (a periodicity of about 50 s), more pronounced Thus, in future studies, it would be of interest to apply decod-
during NREM stage 2 than stage 3 sleep, is related to offline ing-classification approaches based on multimodal brain
declarative memory consolidation. Altogether, these findings imaging such as electroencephalography (EEG) and functional
thus suggest that such a NREM sleep infraslow periodicity magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) (e.g. [58-62]), in order to