mnemonic purposes [39,73,74]. Much of the theory behind ons of different firing rates, as has actually been shown in the
replay focuses on memory consolidation but the innate cortex [37,76].
sequences repeated, when combined with STDP learning The previously published notion of ‘packets’ [38] relates to
tules may actually induce forms of homeostasis observed in the backbone sequence idea proposed there to play a homeo-
the neocortex. Second, as mentioned above, the backbone static role, but the two conceptualizations are not identical.
sequence tends to progress from high firing rate neurons Specifically, the packet idea picks up on the notion that the
having earlier spike timing in each UP state to low firing rate high firing rate cells are reliable and may not informas to specific
neurons having later spike timing. Third, recent work has behaviourally relevant data but rather encode ‘header infor-
shown that over the course of sleep, high firing rate neurons mation’ to connote basic firing, while low firing rate cells
drop their firing rates while low firing rate neurons do not, encode fine-grained behaviourally relevant information. This
or may even increase their firing rates—all in home is important and may be correct and is consistent with the
cage sleep situations with no apparent or obvious learning to ideas stated above. However, our ‘backbone’ conception includes
consolidate [37,75,76]—implying these spike rate changes the fact that backbone sequences cascade from high firing rate
may be homeostatic. neurons early in the sequence to low firing rate neurons later in
A specific hypothesis relating this homeostasis to possible the sequence. This important concept enables the inclusion of
STDP mechanisms in the context of UP state sequences was homeostasis based on STDP acting on this rate-related sequence.
recently published, stating that UP state activation sequences In the hippocampus, an STDP-based decoupling was
specifically lead to differential homeostatic pressures on high shown to weaken synaptic strength and desynchronize activity
and low firing rate neurons (figure 6) [77]. The fact that high during SWR bursts both theoretically and experimentally [78].
firing rate neurons may have earlier mean first spike times Specifically, during bursts, the coincident spiking of connected
than low firing rate neurons may combine with STDP to neurons may weaken the synaptic connections between them
render increased drive (via high rate neuron to low rate because of the conduction delays that fall into the STDP
neuron potentiation) onto low firing rate neurons and decreased depression time frame [78]. Interestingly, the overall firing
drive onto high firing rate neurons (via low firing rate neuron to rate distribution was found to shift toward higher rates, and
