resources or those that are not shared with other competitors they may arise and the mechanisms that maintain them are
[13]. Over time, this results in adaptive trait divergence still poorly understood.
and niche differentiation [9,14]. Less well appreciated is that Ecological and evolutionary trade-offs are expected to arise
when resources are essential, or non-substitutable, opportu- from fundamental constraints on the use and acquisition of
nities for niche differentiation are limited and competition energy and materials. Organisms have fixed resource and
cannot be avoided by character displacement because all energy budgets with which to metabolize, grow and repro-
competitors require the same limiting resources [7,15]. In this duce, such that energy and resources allocated to performing
case, selection favours improved competitive ability or a one function necessarily cannot be used for performing
reduced population-level R* for the shared limiting resource another independent function [27,28]. Furthermore, the obser-
[15,16]. However, adaptation may be constrained by physio- vation that no single genotype or phenotype maximally
logical limits, genetic correlations between multiple traits performs all functions necessarily implies that there are phys-
[17], or lack of genetic variation in resource traits [18]. iological constraints preventing the evolution of ‘Darwinian
These constraints may be particularly strong in the case of demons’ [29]. Despite the fact that evolving individuals even-
adaptation to essential resource limitation because there are tually will face trade-offs, not all local adaptation must come at
few opportunities for divergence in adaptive strategies. a cost. First, trade-offs may not occur when multiple functions
Trade-offs among species in competitive abilities for can be optimized using the same energetic and resource allo-
different resources have been observed at large evolutio- cations. For example, this may occur when metabolic
nary scales (i.e. across clades) [19,20]. Turnover in species pathways affecting multiple functions are highly connected
abundances across gradients of resource ratios suggests that and interdependent. Increasing efficiency in any part of the
these trade-offs underlie species distributions and patterns of metabolic pathway may, therefore, also reduce demands in
biodiversity [1,21]. These trade-offs may arise as a result the rest of the network [30]. In phytoplankton, this may be
of differences in the local conditions in which the traits the case for resource requirements for light and nitrogen
evolved, or from biophysical or genetic constraints that pre- because chloroplasts are typically very nitrogen-rich [31,32].

vent individuals from optimizing several resource-use traits Similarly, proteins required for nutrient uptake and