oxidative reduction potential (mV) 146.6 58.1 326 30
dissolved organic carbon (mg I~") 95 2.5 18.4 5.0
dissolved organic nitrogen (mg I~') 0.488 0.382 1.699 0.081
total phosphorus (ug I7') 72 7 BT 62
chlorophyll @ (ug I7') 18 0.5 34 07
conductivity and dissolved organic nitrogen (electronic $7). While our findings were generally robust to community
supplementary material, figure $2). similarity metrics, the distinction between DDRs for the
Importantly, geographical and environmental distances active and total communities was greatest when rare taxa
between ponds were unrelated (p>0.5), a result that was were emphasized via the Canberra or Sorensen index (figure 2;
insensitive to sample size (electronic supplementary material, electronic supplementary material, figures S4 and S5; tables 2
figure $3). This finding means that, unlike many other eco- and 3). However, DDR slopes were steepest (and intercepts
logical studies, similarity in environmental conditions did were greatest) when similarity was measured via the Bray—
not decay with increasing geographic distance. In fact, there Curtis metric (electronic supplementary material, figure S4).
was no relationship between environmental distance and Bringing these results together, community similarity was
geographical distance, whatsoever (electronic supplementary driven largely by dominant OTUs while differences between
material, figure S3). Because of this natural decoupling, we the active and total communities were driven by rare OTUs.
were able to directly compare environmental DDRs and geo- Beyond differences between DNA and RNA, slopes of
graphic DDRs for bacterial communities without additional environmental DDRs were more than 50% greater than their
statistical treatment. corresponding geographical DDRs regardless of the distance

metric used (p =0.001, table 4). By randomly permuting com-
munities (i.e. rows) from the site-by-taxa matrices, we found
that the slopes and y-intercepts of environmental DDRs differed
from a null expectation that would result from disassociat-
ing communities from their environmental conditions while