may be used to determine that neuron’s preferred SWR pattern, or more generally, its tuning to SWR activity. Ideally, can-
didate readout neurons would be positively identified as receiving hippocampal input (e.g. with opto-tagging), and show
temporal relationships with SWRs that reflect a genuine readout rather than merely correlation. Since SWR activity is poten-
tially dynamic and high-dimensional, a range of appropriate dimensionality reduction techniques may need to be employed
to characterize readout. Different neurons and brain structures may be ‘tuned’ to different SWR features, applying different
projections or decision boundaries to the input. For instance, lateral septum neurons may respond preferentially to an ‘overall
activity’ dimension [33], whereas ventral striatal neurons may respond preferentially to activity associated with reward [37].

Approach 2: trigger disruption or stimulation on specific SWR content features and observe the neural/behavioural consequences. Real-
time detection of specific SWR features can be used for a variety of interventions that causally test the importance of such fea-
tures. For instance, selectively disrupting forward or reverse replay may reveal distinct behavioural impairments associated with
each. Recording in putative readout areas while artificially triggering SWRs, and inhibiting synaptic terminals in triggered on
SWRs occurring, can provide complementary evidence that a given neuron or area, in fact, performs a readout.

appropriate for retrieval of specific cues, spatial contexts and replay methods that capture the order of firing across
semantic information that lacks a clear temporal component. populations of neurons.

Sequence replay and ensemble reactivation are in principle

not mutually exclusive either: for instance, the phenomenon

of remapping suggests that distinct contexts are associated (b) Sequence detection
with specific ensembles (maps) in which multiple distinct tem- There are several popular metrics for quantifying sequence
porally organized experiences can occur [38-40]. Thus, a given replay: the rank-order (Spearman) correlation [14,15,55], the
SWR may involve both the reactivation of a specific ensemble replay score (radon transform) introduced by Davidson et al.