(from a total of 2.6 million reads per mesocosm) were derived patches, for example, by placing independent communities
from allopatric communities. On assembly, these allopatric in separate test tubes, flasks, mice, insects, or similarly
sequence reads produced an average of approximately 3300 bounded structures. After a period of cell growth, community
contigs greater than 1 kb per horizontal mesocosm. This performance can be assessed using some assay of function
extraordinary flux of DNA between communities is clear evi- [72]. This may even involve assay of the metaorganism,
dence of a highly dynamic process. which combines microbial community and host organism.
By read-mapping metagenomic data from time points On the basis of the assay results, poor-performing commu-
taken throughout the experiment back on reference genomes nities are marked for extinction, whereas remaining
from phages and other mobile DNA obtained at the start of communities are diluted and allowed to reproduce. Repro-
the experiment, it was possible to capture the dynamics of duction occurs by allowing successful communities to
amplification and dissemination. Moreover, analysis of hori- establish more than a single new community. This process,
zontally transferred DNA revealed the movement of genes in which (artificial) selection acts on lineages of communities,
predicted to contribute to community function. These can generate surprising effects. This comes from the fact that
included genes implicated in the degradation of cellulose, selection operates on at least two timescales: the doubling
iron scavenging and nitrogen metabolism. This prompted time of individual cells and the doubling time of commu-
functional assays of ammonification, which showed signifi- nities [63,69,73]. Because success or failure of communities
cantly more ammonia in mesocosms in which SGEs over the longer timescale depends on the function of commu-
transferred horizontally, compared with mesocosms in nity members, selection rewards those communities whose
which SGEs were deprived of encountering new hosts, thus cells contribute toward community function: selection over
linking genes to community function. the longer timescale stands to trump short-term within-
Although scraping just the surface of community com- community selection.
plexity, this experimental approach demonstrates that it is While both variation among communities and reproduc-
possible to study complex and hugely diverse communities tion of communities are readily achievable, the extent to
in a dynamical way, akin to a researcher interested in the which offspring communities resemble parental communities
evolutionary and ecological implications of sex. Moreover, is, at least initially, much less certain. Consider for a moment