with one subject to ‘vertical’ and the other to ‘horizontal’ and biotechnology [61], but additionally provide a route to 5!
transfer of SGEs. Vertical transmission was achieved simply study the evolution of interactions that underpin community = >
by serial dilution. For the horizontal treatment, SGEs were stability and function [67,68]. =
collected from each of the horizontal communities, pooled The idea that communities can be manipulated as units of = &
and then redistributed among all horizontal communities. selection was articulated 30 years ago [60] and realized in
The experiment was maintained for 1 year (for details various experimental forms over ensuing years [64,65,69]. S
see [46]). The idea is simple and draws upon the logic of Darwinism: N
During the course of the experiment, DNA samples were entities, for example, communities of cells, will participate s
collected at regular intervals from all mesocosms and sub- in the process of evolution by natural selection provided =
jected to metagenomic analyses. As evident in the the communities vary one from another, communities repli-
accompanying paper [46], the horizontal treatment expected cate, and offspring communities resemble parental types.
to fuel life of SGEs was highly effective at moving not just An additional requirement is that at least some of the vari-
SGEs, but also genes of ecological significance. In fact, just ation between communities be linked to replicative success
two weeks following the division of communities into hori- [70,71].
zontal and vertical treatments, 17% of all sequence reads Researchers can readily confine communities to discrete
(from a total of 2.6 million reads per mesocosm) were derived patches, for example, by placing independent communities
from allopatric communities. On assembly, these allopatric in separate test tubes, flasks, mice, insects, or similarly
sequence reads produced an average of approximately 3300 bounded structures. After a period of cell growth, community
contigs greater than 1 kb per horizontal mesocosm. This performance can be assessed using some assay of function
extraordinary flux of DNA between communities is clear evi- [72]. This may even involve assay of the metaorganism,
dence of a highly dynamic process. which combines microbial community and host organism.
By read-mapping metagenomic data from time points On the basis of the assay results, poor-performing commu-
taken throughout the experiment back on reference genomes nities are marked for extinction, whereas remaining
from phages and other mobile DNA obtained at the start of communities are diluted and allowed to reproduce. Repro-
the experiment, it was possible to capture the dynamics of duction occurs by allowing successful communities to