
evolutionary puzzle

In this review, we tried to give a comprehensive review on almost odourless phenotype and that has rapidly spread in
what is known of the biochemistry of human axilla odour for- human populations in the Far East, is telling an opposing
mation and detection. We have already alluded to the story. The rapid spread of the haplotype containing this
potential evolutionary implications of these findings in the mutation points to a strong selection pressure and may indi-
different sections above and will now summarize the key cate that axilla odours had already become an unwanted
findings in the evolutionary context. trait in early agrarian societies living in closer proximity. The

We highlighted the different specific odourants that are reduced sensory capacity to smell the conspecific as revealed
released as specific precursors by specialized glands. Combined by high anosmia rates for body odours points in a similar
with the fact that these precursors seem to be produced locally, direction: a loss of importance of chemical communication
axillary glands indeed appear to be a specialized metabolic through axilla odours in recent evolutionary history, which
organ producing these compounds for local secretion. now is also reflected in a widespread use of deodourants in

Multiple enzymes and transport proteins of the host are contemporary societies. In Japan, where the frequency of the
involved in scent release—some of these have already been mutated ABCCI11 haplotype is high, but has not reached
characterized biochemically with in vitro experiments 100%, individuals with a functional ABCC11 allele frequently
(ABCC11 and GGT1), while others can only be inferred based undergo surgery [63,64] to remove axillary glands. Surgery
on what is known on the biosynthesis of related conjugates is even covered by social security as axilla odours owing to a
investigated especially in the toxicological field. functional ABCC11 allele are perceived as a disease. Thus, axil-

On the receiver side, the high sensitivity of the human lary odours appear as a fascinating trace of our evolutionary
nose (and hence the corresponding olfactory receptors) for past having largely lost their role in the contemporary context.