Figure 6. Substrate specificity of N-AGA (N.,-acyl-glutamine aminoacylase). The enzyme is highly specific for the Gln residue, not accepting closely related amino
acids (red), while specificity at the acyl part is loose, with all residues in green (natural substrates in the axilla) accepted. Based on this specificity, a high-affinity
transition-state inhibitor (purple) was developed and used for co-crystallization with the enzyme.

further catabolism of these CoA-esters. At the same time, microorganism with the specific secretion of the human host:
these CoA-esters could serve as acyl donors for the enzyme the substrate of the enzyme can be divided into the amino
GLYATL1 (Glycine-N-Acyl-transferase Like 1) [32], which is acid part and the acyl part. Interestingly, we found that only
the only known human enzyme transferring acyl residues substrates with the Gln residue are cleaved, while analogues
from CoA-esters to Gln. The Gln conjugates then appear to with closely related amino acids such as aspartate, asparagine
be substrates for the ABCC11 protein: while this was bio- or glutamate, or the methyl-ester of glutamate are all not recog-
chemically verified for the GSH conjugate with in vitro nized (figure 6). On the acyl side of the substrate, the enzyme is
tests, the secretion of Gln conjugates by ABCC11 has not very flexible, and a wide number of linear and branched acyl
yet been shown in vitro. Yet, the fact that human subjects lack- chains, which may even contain a phenyl- or cyclohexyl-ring,
ing a functional ABCC11 allele are unable to secrete these Gln are accepted. Thus, a highly selective transition-state inhibitor
conjugates strongly suggests that, indeed, they are a substrate could be developed, that binds this enzyme with a K; in the
for this transporter too (see below) [17]. Again, the Gln con- nanomolar range (figure 6). This inhibitor contains the sub-
jugates would then reside in the secretory vesicles and structure of Gln, the non-cleavable phosphinic group, which
hence be secreted onto the skin surface by apocrine secretion. mimics the tetrahedral transition state of the amide group and
Active uptake into the skin bacteria is required to reach the a large acyl part for high-affinity binding [35].
intracellular enzyme for conjugate cleavage, although the trans- Interestingly, this substrate selectivity nicely reflects the
port protein is unknown. Precursor cleavage is then performed range of conjugates secreted in the axilla: we found a wide
by an N,-glutamine aminoacylase (N-AGA). We isolated this range of different odouriferous acids in complex axilla
enzyme from a strain of Corynebacterium striatum that we had secretions (i.e. very diverse acyl parts) [11], but all are
cultivated from axilla washings. In a small survey of isolates, linked to the Gln residue (high specificity for the amino
we identified this enzymatic activity in strains of Corynebacteria acid part). Thus, the substrate spectrum offered by the