coordinated experiments on mice and humans that have so the most relevant comparisons are between other species
revealed for the first time in either species that the lack of and our own. Such comparisons bring up a second obstacle,
emotional contagion of pain between strangers is caused by which is the special status of the human species. This reflects
stress, as shown by analogous procedures that reduce stress in the enormous complexity of pain-linked behaviour (including
each species and enable pain contagion between strangers. uniquely complex social behaviour in humans) and of pain’s
Whether emotional contagion has adaptive functions, and intricate substrates involving large parts of the human nervous
whether these functions could be similar between mice and system, plus the ethical impermissibility of controlled studies
humans is a very interesting question. As mentioned, Finlay on severe and/or chronic pain induced experimentally in
4,53], building upon the capability of expressed pain to elicit healthy human volunteers. Despite impressive recent progress
helping behaviour in humans [54], has proposed that evolution with human imaging and neural stimulation methods, identify-
has enhanced the pain experienced by women during the initial ing the neuronal populations critical for even transient pain ==
stages of labour in order to more effectively obtain help and experience in the human nervous system is incomplete at =
protection from others during childbirth. best. Compounding these obstacles is the fact that pain isan __
Social context is likely to determine whether pain is inferred internal state, rather than an obvious external behav- =
expressed overtly and by which behaviours. For example, iour, and thus is extremely difficult in any species to assess 5!
some behaviours are detectable at long range, including by accurately using behavioural or neural activity measures. = >
predators and competitors, while others require proximity, Consequently, there is considerable uncertainty about which be- =
which is more likely for kin and allies. This prediction has havioural features, neural circuits, cell types and molecules to 3
important implications for questions about the adaptive sig- compare across taxa when defining evolutionary relationships =
nificance of pain expression [54], and it has been supported (homologous and analogous traits). In addition, behavioural >
by observations in rodents (e.g. [39]), in companion and farm states leave very little fossil evidence (although some has been s
animals [7] and in humans [55]. However, conclusive exper- found) for making inferences about when, and in which types s
imental evidence for pain expression altering the behaviour of animal, pain states appeared during evolution. S
of conspecifics is surprisingly sparse for any species, including In spite of these obstacles, substantive insights into the evol-
humans [39]. This is illustrated by Kappesser’s review [55] of ution of pain are emerging, as illustrated by the following