
also [53]). Scenarios of the future may also demand information that
Equipped with a prediction, a  decision-maker— can only be provided by conservation paleaobiologists. For
embedded in the context of larger social and environmental instance, geological analogues from the distant past (e.g.
systems with many stakeholders—acts with confidence but the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) climatic
sacrifices flexibility should surprises emerge [29]. Guided event that resulted in the world’s global temperatures rising
by a scenario (a ‘rehearsal for the future’ [46]), a decision- on average by as much as 5°C [58]), though more challenging
maker acts with caution (for the desire for accurate prediction to comprehend than data from the familiar past where the
should not overwhelm the desire of attaining ‘mere knowl- species and habitats are the same as those found today, pos-
edge of possibilities’® [52, p. 29]), but with the knowledge sess great potential as banks of information on drivers of
that multiple alternatives have been considered [29]. With ecological change to help decision-makers and other stake-
scenarios, decisions are adaptive; flexibility to deal with sur- holders imagine alternative scenarios of the future. It is
prises is maintained. Scenarios are also vehicles to important, however, to not overlook the fact that analogues
communicate complex information about the dynamics of are always imperfect because they are comparisons of differ-
socio-ecological systems to a diverse stakeholder community, ent situations (e.g. rapid global warming in the coming
which presents an opportunity for people to apply this infor- decades is expected to occur at a much faster rate than the
mation to shape their future or adapt to changing conditions. PETM climatic event and across a more substantially frag-
Ideally, scenarios are also co-developed by a diverse group of mented landscape, among other differences [58]). As L.P.
people [15,46]. If scenarios are to serve the purpose of helping Hartley [59, p. 1] reminds us in his novel ‘The Go-between'’,
people prepare for change, it is important that the perspec- ‘The past is a foreign country; they do things differently
tives of the people whose futures are affected by a decision there’. What Hartley meant by this is that the past and pre-
are included in developing the scenario. sent should not be considered on the same terms [60]. The
Recognizing that many of today’s conservation problems same applies for the future relative to the present, or the
cannot be solved via predictive modelling approaches past. If we only see how two situations are similar with
