gyrus) resolution

combinatory
effects (sem)

Figure 4. Summary of MEG results on various stages of language comprehension during reading. The LATL combinatory activity is situated in the middle of a
cascade of temporally overlapping processes, including activation of argument structure representations in the angular and supramarginal gyri (dark blue, [63]),
initial stages of retrieval operations in left inferior frontal cortex if the current item is the second element of a long-distance dependency (orange, [64]) and posterior
temporal activity potentially reflecting more structurally based combinatory operations (purple, [65]). This complex processing stage at 200-250 ms is preceded by
visual word form recognition in the fusiform gyrus, including form-based decomposition of morphologically complex words (turquoise, [66]), and followed by N400
type lexical access effects in middle temporal cortex, reflected in MEG by so-called M350 activity (light green, [67]). If the ‘centre of gravity’ for lexical—semantic
effects is around 350 ms, then the sensitivity of the LATL to word meaning and argument structure at approximately 200 ms is a puzzle. One possibility is that
semantic access is, in fact, a gradual process unfolding over time, with initial stages occurring well before the middle temporal ‘M350’ [28,44]. On such an account,
the light green processing stage would reflect ‘deeper’ semantic access (cf. [16]). Slightly after the M350 lexical access stage, we observe effects of linking word
Meanings to referents in the context, i.e. reference resolution (yellow, [68,69]), and overlapping with this, the second stage of semantic combinatory effects in the
vmPFC discussed in the main text (brown) (syn = syntactic; sem = semantic). pM/STG, posterior middle/superior temporal gyrus. (Online version in colour.)

affected by negation, which we built into the determiner pos- already on the ‘shelf’ as opposed to creating new models,
ition of the subjects (a boat versus no boat). Thus, as already guided by the brain data. To move towards more mechanistic
indicated by the results on same discussed above, it is not understanding, this work should always take the best model,
the lexical/functional contrast that matters for the LATL, probe into it further—what are its strengths and weak-
but whether the items affect the specificity/information nesses?—and try to create a new model that beats it. This
density of the expression. would be parallel to how we have proceeded in the con-

The LATL has also been studied in several experiments trolled designs: new experiments probe finer contrasts than