shown to be proton-insensitive. Comparisons of the primary common molecular architecture, consisting of four transmem-
sequences of the two channels identified four non-conserved brane domains (TM1-4), two pore-forming domains (P1 and
amino acids distributed around the start of the sixth transmem- P2) and an extracellular cap between the TM1 and the P1
brane domain, which when mutated reduced hTRPA1 proton domains, assembling as either homo- or heterodimers (figure 1)
sensitivity [128]. Molecular studies of TRPV1 have also pin- [139-141]. K2P channels underlie the background K* current
pointed residues around transmembrane domain six as observed in excitable and non-excitable cells, playing a key
conferring proton sensitivity independently of capsaicin- and role in setting the resting membrane potential and input resist-
heat-sensitivity [130]. Similarly, the mutation of glutamate ance in neurons, therefore regulating cellular excitability
residues present in the re-entrant loop of TRPC5 abolishes [142,143]. Additionally, K2P channel activity is influenced by
acid-induced activation [127]. Although the specific residues many physico-chemical factors including extra- and intracellu-
differ, the importance of the re-entrant loop and transmem- lar pH, temperature, membrane stretch, as well as being
brane domain six in conferring proton sensitivity of TRPs is modulated by membrane lipids and volatile anaesthetics, i.e.
evident (figure 1). Taken together, the fact that the residues like ASICs and TRP channels, K2P channels integrate a
important for proton sensitivity are not conserved and the number of external and internal signals. In mammals, 15 differ-
finding that only hTRPA1 is proton-sensitive, it is likely ent K2P subunits have been identified and grouped into six
that the ability of TRPs to respond to protons evolved separ- different subclasses (TWIK, TREK, TASK, TALK, THIK and
ately within each subfamily, highlighting the evolutionary TRESK) based on their sequence similarity and functional prop-
importance of acid-sensation. erties [142]; transcript processing and_post-translational
Avoidance of acidic environments by C. elegans suggests an modifications further increase their diversity [144,145]. Never-
ability of the nematode to detect extracellular pH and avoid theless, K2P channels are not restricted to mammals, being
acidic areas. This has been shown to be mediated by osm-9, a highly conserved during evolution. The first ion channel pre-
proposed homologue of mammalian TRPV channels, as senting two pore-forming domains per subunit was identified
reduced acid-avoidance behaviour was observed in osm-9 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and named TOK1
mutants and following treatment of wild-type nematodes (YORK), however, this channel differs from the mammalian
with the broad-spectrum TRP inhibitor ruthenium red [33]. K2P channels by having eight TMs [146], rather than the four