to the preverbal position:° fact that the small clause complement of the copula is gener-
ated by merging two determiner phrases, the predicate and
(13)a NP copula [sc t NP] canonical copular sentence the subject, without the intervention of a head. The resulting s
b NP copula [sc NP t] _ inverse copular sentence phrase, which (again referring to the structuralist tradition) =
can be considered as exocentric, is symmetric. This fact has
This provides the second fundamental result: the rigid associ- a consequence on syntax since we know, for independent
ation of the function of subject and predicate to the NP and reasons, that symmetry blocks the derivation of clauses.
VP surfacing in (9) cannot be maintained. A sentence can Movement must then intervene to rescue the structure: it
still be minimally considered as a combination of an NP breaks the symmetry by displacing either NP ([16,31] prin-
and a VP but the former may be a predicate and the subject ciple of Dynamic Antisymmetry).” More explicitly, copular
may be embedded in the VP. This result has as a consequence constructions show that predication is encoded in syntax by
that preverbal there must not be necessarily interpreted as means of a symmetric configuration.
a subject expletive; in fact, it can be proved that it is a predi- To capture the structural condition of predication, I pro-
cate expletive allowing the derivation of many otherwise pose to generalize this condition implemented by copular
recalcitrant properties of there-sentences. constructions to all types of sentences by formulating the
Combining these two results and summarizing, we can following conjecture:
conclude that, once the morphological asymmetries canoni-
cally distinguishing between a subject and a predicate, A conjecture: all and only predicative structures are codi-
prototypically realized as NP and VP, are factored out, the fied in syntax by symmetrical constructions.
only surviving requirement of the traditional representation
of clause structure as adopted in (9)a-b is that a phrase is If this proves tenable, it would constitute a positive answer to
constituted by an NP and a VP. The configurational character- the possibility of identifying this core relation in terms of
ization of grammatical functions associated to these two purely compositional, qua configurational, algorithms. Predi-
phrases is lost: more specifically, the preverbal NP does not cation is encoded in syntax by the merging of two
need to be the subject. The preverbal NP may well be the pre- symmetrical phrases, whether or not a thematic assignment