nuclear layer. languages (call it the where-problem) there is no real under- >
As usual, the evaluation of a specific proposal in human standing of the electrophysiological mechanism underlying — __
grammar must proceed on global grounds and it must take syntax (call it the what-problem). =
into account a full range of empirical facts which cannot be It has been suggested that what constitutes a negative 5!
examined here.” Nevertheless, from a purely theoretical factor in the search for the fundamental foundations of | =
point of view, this approach has some interesting immediate language is the high level of abstraction of linguistics as =
consequences, beside those related to the derivation of predi- opposed to the concrete level of neurobiology. However, = &
cation in compositional terms. First, it explains why clause this assumption seems to be ideological rather than empirical. =
structure needs an extra layer beside the thematic and the In fact, the issue of ‘granularity’, adopting Poeppel [46]’s S
scope-discourse related ones: some structural space is terminology, cannot and should not be raised with respect N
needed to solve the symmetry-breaking function of move- to the sole domain of linguistics. Nothing guarantees that s
ment. The phrase formed by merging two maximal neurobiology is at a better stage on the way of decomposing =
projections must be split in order to neutralize the symmetry the observed phenomena in the interaction of simpler facts. It
and make the structure accessible to further computation; the may well be the case that any convergence between these two
landing site of the element moved cannot invade the space of empirical perspectives, not to speak of a unification, must
the external layer—for the sake of simplicity, this intermedi- first go through a deep reanalysis and a search for the rel-
ate layer can be referred to as the ‘splitting field’ of clause evant levels of granularity within both these disciplines, if
structure. Second, because the scope-discourse layer is uni- not a radical rethinking as has always happened in unifica-
versally hierarchically superior to the thematic one it tion processes in science (see [47]). The question of
implies that the splitting field is universally intermediate granularity in linguistics is indeed real but it simply coincides
between the two, since it is immediately generated after the with a general tension which characterizes any field of
thematic assignment has taken place (if there is any). Third, modern science, much in the sense expressed by Jean-Baptiste
it implies that there must be at least one splitting field per Perrin, that the essential of science is ‘to explain what is vis-
clause structure, as otherwise there would be no predication ible and complicated by means of what is simple and
and thus no clause structure. If we limit the observation to invisible’ (quoted in [48])—the prototypical example is of