networks are pervasive in biological systems [6] or that the virtue of this definition, the conditions of the application help
small-world description adequately captures the characteristic to recover directionality in each particular case of explanation.
organization of brain networks [7], this theme issue aims to Bechtel [11] approaches the issue of distinctively network or
provide a set of norms on the key network concepts, such as topological explanations from a general perspective and pro-
levels, hierarchies and successful network explanations, vides illustrations that networks are compatible with
which can be universally applied across biological sciences. mechanisms. His reasoning is based on the analysis of ways

Furthermore, the unique nature of the subject requires the in which bio-ontologies help to identify network modules
inclusion of philosophical analyses to establish epistemic and hierarchies. He challenges the view that network-based
norms for well-defined concepts, and explanatory and explanations are not mechanistic, but rather represent a new
modelling practices. Therefore, this theme issue includes con- distinctively topological kind of explanation. As one of the
tributions by four philosophers who provide epistemological reasons for thinking that networks are not mechanisms, he
analyses of the structure and epistemic norms of successful identifies the fact that large-scale network representations are
topological explanations [8], general norms of explanatory flat (i.e. they are not organized into levels), whereas mechan-
asymmetry based on a model's conditions of the application isms are hierarchical, where parts constitute mechanisms and
[9], the heuristic and epistemic value of exploratory network mechanisms constitute larger-scale mechanisms. He claims
models [10], and analyses of network hierarchies and their that it is misleading to think of networks as flat because net-
integration into mechanistic theories of explanation [11]. works are often organized hierarchically as well. A notable

difference between networks and traditional mechanisms
according to Bechtel is that, instead of representing how
parts and operations perform or produce a mechanism of inter-

2.A perspective from ph ilosophy est, the edges represent the connectivity data based on which
The contributions in this theme issue are organized themati- the researchers construct a network or hierarchical relations.