alignment, [17]), the notion of ‘hierarchy’ is frequently referred analysis. This, of course, has further conceptual and epistemo-
to in current concepts and indeed is an integral aspect when it logical advantages because it allows us to clearly distinguish
comes to the analysis or interpretation of brain networks and answer different types of explanation-seeking questions,
[18,19]. When considering hierarchies as a characteristic feature which is yet another illustration of the explanatory perspecti-
for brain networks, however, three questions arise: (1) How vism criterion in topological explanations [8, p. 2].
can hierarchy in brain connectivity be defined; (2) What is The next two contributions provide heuristic tools and
the evidence that the arrangement of brain networks follows analyses for understanding network hierarchies and levels
hierarchical organization principles; and (3) Is it possible to more generally, across biological fields and timescales.
introduce a hierarchical analysis scheme or algorithm that Hierarchies and levels in biological (as well as artificial)
does not a fortiori call for a certain hierarchy definition? networks are often reflections of complex systems. A
To that end, Hilgetag & Goulas [16] remind us that ‘con- necessary condition or, according to Solé & Valverde [22], a

cepts shape the interpretation of facts’ and they question the common architectural trait, of complex systems, is that of a


network of higher-order organization demonstrated by non-
identical elements connected by diverse interactions with
no central control in which emergent complex behaviour is
exhibited. Especially in the context of biology, such an attri-
bution of complexity to networks raises the questions
regarding the evolution of network complexity: Why is the
network level relevant in seeking explanations for the
origin of complexity? How do complex systems emerge,
and how can the topological organization of these networks
provide some insights into their evolutionary origins?