the action expressed by the word ‘kick’ is very different in adhering to her definition of compositionality places undesir-
the two sentences above. For example, in the first sentence, able limits on the development of a theory of human natural
we understand the baby’s kick as an occurrence that may be language understanding, which is our main interest.
a mother’s first experience of the movement of her unborn Elsewhere, we have described natural language as well as
baby. This seems to suggest that the understood meaning of natural objects and events as quasi-compositional or quasi-
the sentence is incompatible with compositionality. However, regular [12-14]. We use the phrase ‘quasi-compositional’
it is argued that complexity added to the lexicon, the syntax to contrast our view with the usage of compositional found
or both, will allow for a compositional analysis of such in Fodor & Pylyshyn [15]. They give ‘compositionality’ a
sentences despite the initial apparent incompatibility. For restricted meaning, in which the contribution each lexical
example, the entries for ‘rifle’ and ‘baby’ could select specific item makes to the meaning of a sentence is always the
definitions of the meaning of ‘kick’. In the light of this flexi- same. They appealed to such a restricted definition of compo-
bility, we agree with Janssen who suggests that ‘the real sitionality, arguing that it allows language to be productive.
question is not whether a certain phenomenon can be analysed On p. 42, they wrote ‘in fact, you need a further assumption,
compositionally, but what makes the overall theory (un)attrac- which we'll call the ‘principle of compositionality’: insofar as
tive or (un)acceptable’ [3, p. 441]. Relatedly, he notes that it has a language is systematic, a lexical item must make approxi-
been suggested that the necessity to stretch the concepts of the mately the same semantic contribution to each expression
lexicon and syntax to achieve compositionality makes compo- in which it occurs. It is, for example, only insofar as ‘the’
sitionality ‘a vacuous principle’ [3, p. 457]. Jannsen goes on to ‘girl’, ‘loves’ and ‘John’ make the same semantic contribution
reject this view, because from his perspective, ‘the challenge to ‘John loves the girl’ that they make to ‘the girl loves John’
of compositional semantics is not to prove the existence of that understanding the one sentence implies understanding
such semantics, but to obtain one’. Here, as noted above, the other’. However, as already discussed, such a restricted
compositionality becomes a methodological principle allowing form of compositionality does not fully capture the mapping

researchers to ‘design a function that assigns meanings’. Other from language to meaning, and in our view this explains
