considerations of what the model aptness depends upon (type
1). If, however, the explanatory target does not depend on the
conditions that make the model apt, then we have no reason
to view the dependencies within the model itself (type 2) as a
partial story of the full dependencies of the explanatory


target. There is now no reason to take the internal dependencies postulation of some metaphysical asymmetric relation that El

(type 2) to be part of a modelling schema that considers type 1-3 is used to account for the direction of explanation. Rather,
dependencies relative to the explanatory target.* the directionality in explanatory applications of network

This is not to deny that when the conditions which make models to physical facts is identified either from within the
the model apt hold, we can have reason to take the model to model or from an asymmetry in the sensitivity of the expla-
be predictively accurate. However, being predictively accu- natory target to the conditions they have to obtain in order
rate in the actual circumstances does not show that we have for the model to be aptly applied. There are several advan-
a model capable of being trusted to answer questions about tages to this approach. First, the problem of identifying the
what the explanatory target would have been like had cir- direction of explanation is transformed from a metaphysical
cumstances been different. To do this, we require reliable problem where we face the challenge of how we can deter-
dependence information throughout (from types 1 to 3). mine whether the appropriate relation holds, to an

For example, consider again the case of modelling a par- epistemic one. When there is a dispute over the direction of © =
ticular type of pendulum by using a simple pendulum explanation (if any) for a particular case, we do not immedi- = >
model. Let us say that the explanatory target is the period ately need to settle metaphysical questions over which — _
of the pendulum. Here, the simple pendulum model can be relation holds.° Of course, this is not to say that it is always =