decisions at the network and node levels would have been the node level tended to be smoothed at the network level. 5
observed if, for example, cladocerans or copepods had been The potential misalignment of information provided by the = =
considered (electronic supplementary material, table SA3 three levels is epistemologically striking. In the nested hierar- >
and SA6). All of the model compartments exhibit some chy case considered in this paper, we might consider the Ss
degree of carbon recycling, but cycling is more important in three levels of analysis as alternative approaches that provide = =.
some than in others, and some nodes contribute more to distinct perspectives: the network-level metrics are the most — 5!
the network-level cycling index (electronic supplementary general, the node-level analysis acknowledges some realism, = =
material, table SA3). The relative importance of DOC and and the flows are the object of a precision analysis. Flows are =
DET cycling in the network cycling index explains this differ- indeed quantified precisely and computing on those quantities = &
ence between figure 5a,b. Concerning the flow level, the flow may allow local predictions for a given network. At the whole- =
from bacteria to DOC showed a high degree of consistency network level, many systems which differ at the level of flows >
with the two other levels, DOC node level and network. may feature a similar dynamic, and therefore, information N
We hypothesize that this result is owing to the fact that this gathered about this dynamic will apply generally to this s
flow is embedded in a loop that is composed of only two whole class of systems. At the level of nodes, various flows S
flows (from DOC to bacteria and back to DOC through with distinct quantitative measures may concur in a specific
viral lysis) and that these flows have faster turnover rates pattern of input-output functions, which, among such general
than other, longer, loops. This importance of taking class of networks with similar dynamics, would characterize
this loop between heterotrophic bacteria and DOC into more realistically a specific system in terms of its local profile
account in food-web models suggests that the recycling is of functioning. Combining these three levels of analysis into
highly underestimated in models where viral infections are a trinomial perspective fits well with the vertical explanatory
not considered, which is the case in almost all planktonic mode proposed in the article by Kostic in this issue [43].
models published up to now (see the review [36]). Emphasizing the diversity of epistemic values across levels
Concerning TL and omnivory, we also had situations also highlights the importance of using different levels to
where all the levels provided the same information and situ- answer different types of questions. For example, FCI tells us
ations where this was not true. Such results illustrate the how important cycling is in contributing to the total system