and AP2gamma proteins are also undetectable in 2CLC [39]. more than one cell is injected per chimera. In analogy, there- = 5!
However, their mRNA levels are only slightly reduced or fore, totipotent cells should be tested in vivo. However, these = &
unchanged, indicating that shutting down the pluripotency experiments pose a conceptual problem, if one considers that
network is regulated also at the translational level. totipotent cells are those that can give rise to a full organism =
Importantly, analysis of an intermediate cellular state without the need of carrier cells. Often however, totipotency
characterized by the expression of the TF Zscan4 but the is called positive when cells in culture are put back into late S
absence of MERVL transcription, indicated that the pluripo- 8-cell stage embryos, and they are seen to occupy the trophec- N
tency network is down-regulated before the transition into a toderm layer of the blastocyst, and with more stringency, when -S
2CLC (MERVL+) state. These experiments led us to conclude cells are seen in the placenta of post-implantation embryos &
that cells must exit pluripotency before committing to the (figure 2). In the field, these experiments are generally done *
2CLC fate [39], potentially through translational regulation in with various levels of stringency criteria and most of them
Zscan4+ cells [51]. These results were recently confirmed by lack evidence of proliferative trophoblast derivatives in the
a later study [45]. In fact, neither Oct4, Rex1 or Nanog depletion placenta, and are restricted to conclusions on contribution to
affects MERVL or Zscan4 expression and, accordingly, their yolk sac derivatives, which in fact is an ICM derivative, not
downregulation does not impact 2CLC emergence [39]. We a trophectoderm derivative. In addition, they have raised sev-
also showed that it is the naive ESCs that have the highest eral reproducibility issues, which may be due to genetic
probability to reprogramme towards 2CLC [39]. At first background, mouse strains, timing, and many others, or
sight, these conclusions would seem at odds with the obser- simply to lack of robustness. Most importantly, however in
vation that ESCs kept in a ‘ground’, naive state through the my view these assays test for bipotentiality to contribute to
continuous presence of the ‘2i’ inhibitors cycle less often into the two first lineages of the blastocyst, but not for totipotency.
2CLC [39]. However, culturing ESCs in such pharmacological I will argue, therefore, that we currently do not have a
inhibitors is expected to ‘freeze’ ESCs in a ground fate, correct assay to test for totipotency. It is also very improbable
and therefore preventing spontaneous changes of cellular that one cell, for example, a 2CLC, can fulfill the geometrical
heterogeneities in such cultures. needs and constraints of the in vivo embryo. Their diameter is
Studying the natural progression from ESCs towards at least 10 times smaller and thus their volume is 1000 times