
Figure 5. List of all TEs insertions identified in osnrpd7 mutants. The pedigree of all plants tested is indicated at the top. The three columns at the left of the table
indicate the chromosome, the coordinates and the name of the new insertion. The coordinates are the start and end positions of the sequence that has been
duplicated upon insertion as detected by our program. The true position of the insertion is one of them, depending of the orientation of the TE. For Tos77
and Lullaby insertions, the positions highlighted in bold have been determined by sequencing. A circle (green for Tos77, red for Lullaby, blue for Karma) indicate
the presence of the insertion in each plant.

called rmré6 is pleiotropically affected in development [50,51]. methylation, 11% decrease in CG methylation and 20%
Tilling mutants braA.nrpd1 of Brassica rapa notably displayed decrease in CHG methylation were reported for osdrm2 [27]
asynchronous seed abortion [52]. Tomato slurpd1 null mutants when osnrpd1 displayed less than 5% reduction in all contexts
have also been reported to be sterile [53]. Moreover, in contrast (figure 3 and electronic supplementary material, figure S3).

to osnrpd1, pleiotropic developmental abnormalities have been The fact that we likely obtained an RNAi line only slightly
observed in mutants in other components of the RADM path- affected in OsNRPD1 activity indicates, as previously
way in rice, like osdrm2 [24,27] and osdcl3a [26]. A strong suggested by others [30], that a null mutant would be sterile
osnrpd1 mutant would, therefore, be expected to be affected in rice. It is indeed surprising that a mutant of this central com-
the same way. In addition, an important reduction of ponent of the RDM machinery has never been described in
genome-wide methylation was associated with those develop- such an important plant, as both a model species and a

mental defects. For instance, an 85% decrease in CHH crop. Data are nevertheless available for other actors of


RdDM. The osdrm2 null mutant, obtained by homologous
recombination, is sterile [24]. The two described osdcl3a lines
are knock-down RNAi lines, but they affect phenotypes with