the culling of chemical crystals is space. Instructively, it could had not yet seen it [28]. Perhaps, as Darwin recognized looking =
be applied to biological traits, too, like baldness and crooked at the ants [29] and then at humans [30], selection might work 3
teeth, and of course—altruism. The approach was more abstract on different levels of the biological hierarchy simultaneously. cs
and more general than Hamilton's coefficients of relatedness, The question now became not whether selection can work at S
but that seemed an improvement since altruism was dependent the level of the group instead of the level of the individual, but N
on association rather than family. The reason for this seemed rather, in each and every case, at which level selection was at sS
clear to Price: natural selection could not care less why people work with greater force. Returning to his covariance equation,” &
end up in groups; similarity of traits would work just as well Price added a ‘transmission bias’ which allowed us to see not >
as common genetic descent. And since a covariance treated only whether a trait moving froma ‘mother’ to ‘daughter’ popu-
relatedness as a statistical association rather than a measure of lation helped to increase fitness, but also what the chances were
common ancestry, relatedness could actually be negative, lead- that it would be inherited:
ing to spite—harming oneself in order to harm one’s enemy _ Cov(w,z) _ E(wAz)
more. In fact, spite and altruism were two sides of the same Az = ———— + ———.
coin. Both existed as possibilities within us, but depended on @ @
the environment: If the surrounding creatures were similar, The equation partitioned trait change in evolution into selec-
altruism would evolve, if they were different, it would be tion (Cov) and transmission (E), but with simple substitutions it
spite. It was the social environment that shaped our behaviour. also partitioned two levels of selection simultaneously, showing

On 24 September 1968, Price wrote to his mother that ‘some- how much each contributed to the overall change. From the
thing wonderful and totally unexpected happened to me an gamete and individual (the transmission and selection terms,
hour or so ago’.°° He had taken his equation, off the street respectively), the level could be bumped up a notch to individual
and unsummoned, to the biostatistics professor at University and group, even species and lineage. ‘Have you seen how my
College London, who happened to be Hamilton’s PhD supervi- formula works for group selection?’ Price asked in a ‘squeaky
sor Cedric Smith. Within 90 min, Smith had offered him an and condescending’ voice over the phone, to which Hamilton
office and an honorary appointment in what was then a leading replied ‘of course not...So you actually believe in that do you?’