elements establishes cell-type- Cc) CO
specific TAD boundaries in early MERV-L and
embryogenesis Pol II LI

HERV-H (LTR)
Figure 2. TE-derived cis-regulatory elements. (a) Here, we review TEs’ role in gene expression via enhancers, promoters, boundary elements and silencers. (6) TE-
derived enhancers act distally as either intergenic (upper panel) or intronic (lower panel). (c) TEs contribute promoters either as alternative promoters driving
chimeric transcripts (upper panel) or as a replacement for the canonical promoter (lower panel). (d) TE-derived boundary elements contribute to topologically
associated domains (TADs) by providing CTCF-binding sites (upper panel) and also maintain TADs by TE transcription (lower panel). (e) TEs can also act as a silencer
by spreading heterochromatin (upper panel) or stalling Pol I elongation (lower panel).

this picture changes in preimplantation embryos and pluripo- permissive epigenetic state associated with global DNA
tent cells, where evolutionarily young LTR elements, such hypomethylation, but may be a consequence of the fact that
as ape-specific LTR5HS in humans and murine-specific these ancient retroviruses must have been able to replicate
RLTR9B2, RLTR9D, RLTR9E and RLTR13D6 in the mouse, in germ cells or preimplantation embryo cells in order to
appear to have been broadly co-opted for enhancer function, persist through vertical transmission (figure 1c). Thus, LTRs
with a large subset of individual elements within the given of retroviruses that successfully endogenized have likely
class showing the occupancy of pluripotency TFs (figure 1c) been optimized for directing expression in early embryo/
and chromatin signatures of active enhancers [29,52]. germ cells to begin with, and accumulating mutations over

We speculate that such broad activity of evolutionarily evolutionary times may decrease, rather than increase, their

young LTRs in naive pluripotency may not only result from regulatory activity. One such example of a TE is HERV-H

