different combinations of traits. These capture selection, as is zero.)
well as directional stochastic effects. There is good reason to expect that transmission and
Because ¢° and Q are random variables, so are [¢, Poy selection will covary in some natural systems. Heritability,
and tf. J—meaning that there can be a probability covariance or additive genetic variance, are often different in different
between transmission and selection. These are captured by environments [15-20]. If the different environments impose
the ([d?, P°I, ea) terms, which would be invisible to a different selection regimes, then a population that encounters
deterministic model. both environments will experience a covariance between
Equations (3.4) and (3.5) show that selection and trans- transmission and selection. In such a case, selection in the
mission terms of the same order always go together. This is environment with higher heritability will lead to a larger
a result of doing our calculations in the space of orthogonal magnitude of change than will selection in the low heritability
polynomials, and involves no simplifying assumptions environment.
about how fitness and transmission are related to one Figure 4 shows a case with two traits; one (¢,) experiences
another. One interesting result of this fact is that a particular different selection in the two different habitats. The other (¢;,)
selection term is relevant to change in mean phenotype only is a habitat preference trait that influences the probability that
if the corresponding transmission term (of the same order) is an individual experiences one or the other habitat. If ¢), =0
non-zero. Thus, for example, third-order selection does not the individual has a preference for habitat 0, and if ¢,=1
influence A@ unless there is also third-order transmission. they have a preference for habitat 1. @, = 1/2 corresponds to

(Note, though, that the stochastic terms may still be non-zero no preference (for details, see [8]).


Figure 4a shows the expected fitness function for these construct a basis using biorthogonal polynomials of these

two traits. There are peaks at [¢,=0, ¢, =0] (being adapted traits so that we can project some value of interest, such as
to habitat 0 and preferring habitat 0), and at [¢,=1, ¢,=1] offspring phenotype, into it; allowing us to represent that 3