is not like the inheritance of their genes, and so they only tral role to selection rather than transmission in explaining the
have a dual inheritance as a metaphor or idealization. Alterna- emergence of design-like properties.
tively, we can move to modelling a world where humans—one Viewed in this light, it would seem reasonable to reserve
type of Darwinian individual evolving with one system of the category ‘Darwinian’ for cases where the Darwinian pre-
inheritance (genes)—are hosts and ecological backgrounds to requisite is satisfied and there is a prominent role for selection
the propagation of another type of Darwinian individual rather than transmission in explaining design-like properties.
(song renditions), which also has one system of inheritance. One need not, perhaps, go so far as to refuse the designation

‘Darwinian evolution’ to all cases where the average trans-
mission term is non-zero. However, there is no doubt that
the success of Darwinian evolution as an explanatory para-

4. Is cultural change Darwinian? digm owes much to the fact that, in genetic cases, it has
The considerations in §3 bring us back to an overall assess- generally turned out to be zero. The greater the importance
ment of whether cultural change is best thought of as a of average transmission in explaining design-like properties,
Darwinian process. Space precludes a full review of all the the less the similarity to Darwin’s theory becomes. One
possible and actual answers (see [7,12,17,19-21]). These could loosen one’s definition of ‘Darwinian’ to include such
depend on what scope we give the term ‘Darwinian’: we cases (for example, calling all populational processes over
can always define it in such a way as to include the key fea- time ‘Darwinian’ [12]). However, any such broad notion of
tures of a cultural case we are interested in. Thus, the question ‘Darwinian’ would also include accounts of the genetic evol-
is not whether we can say that cultural change is a Darwinian utionary process that historians of science see as importantly
process, but how epistemically useful such a stance is. different from Darwin’s.

Cultural evolutionists have always stressed that cultural In this paper, I have drawn attention to key differences
transmission is not exactly like genetic transmission (see e.g. between genetic and cultural processes: in culture, much of