that are specific to groups. A full comparison of the relative In Michod et al. [55], an isomorphism was assumed
merits of these two ‘solutions’ to the pseudo-group problem between cell traits and colony traits, in the sense that if a
is beyond our scope here and would be needed to make cell (in a group) contributes v or b effort to viability or fecund-
detailed comparisons between our ideas of ETI progression ity, respectively, then this same effort is also expended
and those of Clarke [52]. towards the respective group fitness components. Godfrey-
The idea of global individual selection (meaning 2, Smith [56] either rejects or does not appreciate this early iso-
table 1) can also be used to understand how lower-level natu- phorphism and the counterfactual sense of ‘cell fitness’ used
ral selection may change as an ETI progresses. With reference in the models. For example, Godfrey-Smith [56, p. 78] writes:
to this meaning, progression through the transition can be ‘Germline cells do not contribute to maintenance of viability.
seen when cells lose their capacity to function as independent This functional contrast has to do with the cells’ relations to
wholes, instead becoming well-integrated parts of a larger the collective’s fitness, not their own’. Michod et al. [55] pro-
whole. The decline in cell fitness for this meaning is counter- vide a rationale for thinking that this isomorphism may hold
factual; the fitness a cell would have on its own declines as the early in an ETI in the volvocine alage.
transition progresses. This approach is described separately Leslie et al. [59] also addressed the meaning of ‘cell fit-
from the ‘conflict mediator’ approach because it relates to ness’ in Michod ef al. [55]. The counterfactual meaning of
different models (ie. homogeneous group models). We ‘cell fitness’ is clearly articulated in Michod et al. [55] (see
expect that further work would result in a more unified the above quote). Yet the trade-off between lower-level v
approach to the question of how MLS quantification relates and b is affected by the number of cells per colony (a

to ETI progression. higher-level trait), so the ‘cell-level’ fitness components do


have a connection to the group and are not just the fitness a
cell would have by itself. Leslie et al. [59] offer a possible sol-
ution to this concern. A full exploration of the issue is beyond