the ‘transfer of fitness’ between the cell and group levels. group selection is absent by assumption and selection is at =
The reason behind this description concerned the evolution the group level. The basic question addressed in this model >
of altruism, which played a special role with respect to a dia- is: under what conditions should the group contain cells N
chronic view of within-group versus between-group selection that are specialized in one or both of the two components s
in the mathematical models referenced in the last paragraph. of fitness, viability and fecundity? &
The costs of altruism decrease the within-group fitness of the The meaning of ‘cell fitness’ in these models has been the
lower-level units, while benefiting the fitness of the group, subject of some commentary. Godfrey-Smith [56] and Bourrat
the higher-level unit. The relationship between the costs, C, [57] argue against the idea that actual cell fitness within a
and benefits, B, for altruism to evolve depends on relatedness colony goes to zero at the end of the transition, a position
as given by Hamilton’s rule. In simplified form, Hamilton’s that they attribute incorrectly to Michod [58]. In the modelling
tule says that C units of fitness may be subtracted from the paper being described in Michod [58], Michod et al. [55,
cell level, as long as B units of fitness are added to members Pp: 263]° state: ‘Most important (and critical to our analysis) is
of the group. In this sense, the evolution of altruism transfers the fact that, if one cell has a high fecundity (and hence a
fitness from the level of the cell to the level of the group. low viability, so that it would have a low fitness by itself),
We see a strong connection between Clarke’s [52] proposed this may be compensated for if another cell has a high viability
framework for ETI progression and this first approach. Clarke (and hence low fecundity). Consequently, even though each of
[52] uses the Price partition to quantify levels of selection, and these cells by itself would have a low fitness, together they can
refers to ‘individuating mechanisms’, which are similar to con- bring a high fitness to the group (especially under conditions
flict mediators such as germline modifiers discussed above of convexity of the trade-off)’. So, the idea in the model is
and in appendix A. Our discussion so far in this section has clearly a counterfactual sense of ‘cell fitness’, the fitness a cell
shelved the issue of pseudo-groups. Clarke [52] works would have were it alone. Arguments against the idea that
around the pseudo-group problem by defining groups in a actual cell fitness in the group goes to zero (Godfrey-Smith
particular way (related to individuating mechanisms). Our [56], Bourrat [57]) are not relevant to the models (Michod
response to the pseudo-group problem does not involve par- [58], Michod et al. [55]) and do not inform our interpretation
sing the definition of groups, but rather the causal effects of them.’