partial differential equation models that require us to take multiplicative noise. This effect is discussed in the contri-

into account point-to-point interactions, one can include bution of Jhawar & Guttal [74]. By characterizing the role of
non-local operators over the region sensed by the individual stochasticity directly from high-resolution time-series data
that is characterized by a finite range and, e.g. a visual angle. of collective dynamics, they argue that the group-level
The contribution by Chen et al. [68] summarizes how classical noise may encode important information about the under-
reaction-diffusion-transport models need to be transformed lying processes at the individual scale.
in order to take non-local effects into account. Modelling The difficult step in every model is usually to pass from
non-locality usually involves the introduction of convolu- qualitative to quantitative validation. Luckily, the recent
tional operators in space. The focus of this contribution is development of new tracking techniques allows the pro-
to study the effect of the transport term that is typically in vision, in principle, of large and accurate data sets that can
charge of modelling taxis-type migration phenomena. In be used for this purpose. Unfortunately, so far data are only
fact, the literature has so far mainly focused on the transport available for a few systems. In this respect, the contribution ==
aspect, though in principle a similar approach could be by Escobedo et al. [43] presents a general method to extract >
extended to other model components, to include non-local interaction functions between individuals that are required Ss
effects on growth and death. Moreover, the contribution to achieve collective migration. The method is then specifi- =
also includes a discussion on how macroscopic reaction—dif- cally applied to characterize social interactions in two = 3!
fusion-transport models can be obtained from microscopic species of shoaling fish, the rummy-nose tetra (Hemigrammus = >
individual-based models. rhodostomus) and the zebrafish (Danio rerio), which both exhi- 7
With a similar philosophy, in kinetic models, the tactic bit burst-and-coast motion. In principle, the method can be =
and kinetic responses of test individuals as a consequence extended to other systems when data becomes available. cs
of the non-local sensing of the surrounding environment S
and of the presence and behaviour of other individuals is . . . Nm
considered by introducing non-local collision (or rather, inter- (b) Collective migration at the cellular level =
action) operators [69-72]. In the kinetic framework, The collective migration of cells as a cohesive group depends &