has expanded considerably. Mathematical models look at col- individual migration, the model by Bernardi & Scianna
lective phenomena from different levels: from the microscopic describes animals moving with changing speed and orien-
scale, e.g. by lattice-based and/or agent-based models, from tation, where the individual orientation response results
the mesoscopic scale, e.g. by kinetic models, and from the from a set of behavioural stimuli. Model simulations capture
macroscopic scale by systems of partial differential equations. different types of collective migration patterns depending on
From the mathematical point of view, such a burst of models the particular choice of attractive, repulsive and alignment be-
operating at different scales has brought the need of connect- havioural stimuli. The inclusion of an escape stimulus into the
ing the models, highlighting not only similarities and model allows the study of various hunting scenarios in a
differences, but also of clarifying how, in the various predator-prey system.
models, information at the smaller scale can be transferred In agent-based and cellular automata models, it is
to the larger scale. This requires the use and development straightforward to study the collective behaviours of cells
of proper multi-scale methods [56]. Instead, staying on the or animals emerging from interactions with their spatial
same modelling level calls for a systematic comparison of neighbours [27,64-67]. In fact, individual dynamics in such
different models and for the study of how different model models explicitly take into account the interaction of particles
terms affect the collective behaviour of the aggregates. located at different points in space. This is not the case in kin-
The most natural approach to describe the coordination of etic and continuous (e.g. reaction-diffusion) models that
collective movements in groups of cells and organisms is the typically only represent reaction/interaction terms evaluated

one that describes the behaviour of the single agents using at the same space point. To deal with collective behaviours in


partial differential equation models that require us to take multiplicative noise. This effect is discussed in the contri-

into account point-to-point interactions, one can include bution of Jhawar & Guttal [74]. By characterizing the role of
non-local operators over the region sensed by the individual stochasticity directly from high-resolution time-series data