distance [93]. However, several recent studies suggest that, in comprehension of coordination processes and the way infor-
fish, each individual in a school would collect only a limited mation pervades biological systems during collective motion,
amount of information on its environment thus avoiding cog- which has led to the development of new common research
nitive saturation [94-96]. In animal groups, it is particularly themes. One concept that has united several works in recent
difficult to design experiments to investigate such complex years is that of criticality [108,109]. An increasing number of
issues. In this respect, the results reported in the article by works have indeed shown that biological systems such as col-
Jayles et al. [97] provide some elements to answer these ques- lectives of cells, swarms of insects, flocks of birds and herds
tions. Using an artificial sensory device that filters out and of sheep behave as though they are near the ‘critical point’ of
adapts the amount of information delivered in real time to a phase transition, like correlated spins in a magnet on the
the participants in simple segregation task experiments with verge of ordering [110-115]. In flocks of starlings, for example,
human groups, it is shown that the amount of information one can observe ‘scale-free correlations’, which occur on all
collected at the individual scale deeply affects the collective possible length scales in the flock [116]. This hallmark of criti-
separation dynamics. However, they also show that each indi- cality is characterized by the fact that the velocity fluctuations
vidual must only acquire a minimum amount of information of two distant birds mutually influence each other. The same
on their first seven nearest neighbours to get an optimal level property has been recently discovered in the self-organized

of segregation. In fact, the results show that the acquisition of aggregation of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum in


response to starvation [114]. In this species the local coupling collectively (fluid state), or aggregate into immobile sheets | 8 |

between cells via cAMP secretion is tuned to a critical value, and clusters (solid or jammed state). In the devastating example

resulting in emergent long-range communication between of malignant tumours, cells switch from a solid-like state to an
