
: ping of its locomotion in the case of removal of the leading >

Figure 7. Numerical simulations reproducing experiments performed in [11] fragment, as shown computationally in figure 7e,f and exper- N

where the migrating primordium is divided into three fragments via laser imentally in [11]. Interestingly, in this case, the central rosette S

ablation: a trailing/rostral mature rosette (including Cxcr7-expressing cells); does not elongate as one may expect: the underlying reason 2

a central immature rosette and a leading/caudal cluster (both having can be found in the stabilization actuated by the aPM via its ”
Cxcr4-expressing cells only). (a-d) The trailing and leading fragments enhanced adhesiveness and FGF10 signals. On the opposite
arrest, while the central isolated rosette moves forward. The trailing rosette side, the presence of the trailing proto-neuromast does not
stops as it is mainly constituted by Cxcr7-expressing cells. The different be- affect the behaviour of the central rosette. In fact, when only
haviour of the central and leading fragments (both including Cxcr4-expressing the most rostral epithelialized rosette is removed (see figure
cells only) is related to FGF10-signalling: dPM cells forming the immature 7g,h and [11]) the central and the leading fragments are still
Tosette express fgfr7, which pushes them towards PM and aPM sources of able to aggregate (as observed in figure 7a,b) but not to
FGF10. Once the central and leading clusters are close enough they aggregate move, at least until the previously isolated central rosette
and stretch, thereby allowing the reconstruction of the primordium via undergoes partial epithelialization, thereby expressing Cxcr7
adhesive interactions. Normal locomotion is then restored. (e,f) In the proteins and allowing a productive pattern of SDF1a receptors.
absence of the leading fragment, both the trailing and the central isolated Finally, for the sake of completeness, the model outcomes
clusters arrest. (g,h) The absence of the trailing fragment does not affect in figures 8 and 9 highlight how variations in the free
the behaviour of the other clusters, which are still able to aggregate. The model parameters (i.e. the adhesion/repulsion coefficients,
resulting cluster is however unable to move until the previously isolated cen- cell chemical sensitivity and SDFla internalization rates)
tral rosette undergoes partial epithelialization, thereby allowing a productive affect the numerical outcomes in figures 6 and 7, respectively.
pattern of receptors Cxcr7/Cxcr4. (Online version in colour.) In particular, we there report representative final confi-