dynamics in figures 6e,f and 7e,f (as they include either PM (driving dPM and pE cells expressing fgfrl) and to cell-cell
individuals or fgfrl-expressing cells only, cf. with figures 8b adhesions. The primordium is thus rebuilt, but it presents a
and 9b, respectively), but avoid the reconstruction of the pri- more compact morphology and is not able to undergo
mordium in all other cases. When the primordium is divided normal locomotion in the presence of too low SDFla-related
in two fragments, see figure 82,c, the trailing fragment further velocity components. For the same reason the leading fragment
separates in two portions: dPM individuals at its caudal edge in figure 8b does not elongate as in figure 6e,f . Analogously,
indeed rapidly move towards PMs (being subjected to an when the primordium is divided into three fragments, a
increased chemoattractant cue) and detach from most rostral reduction in the value of y,4¢ allows the fragments to rejoin
pEs which stay still. The resulting caudal fragment (comprising in any case, see figure 9. This suggests that the aggregation of
PMs, dPMs and few pEs) moves towards the embryo’s tail primordium fragments is mainly regulated by adhesive inter-
owing to the polarized expression of SDFla receptors, and actions and FGF10-signalling, which here overcome SDFla-
owing to dPM agents that both chemotactically move towards related velocity components. This is further confirmed by the
and push forward PMs, in addition to drag the few pEs by fact that the resulting aggregate presents a more compact and
adhesion. In the case of a primordium ablated in three frag- rounded morphology, and that it is not able to migrate along
ments, see figure 9a,c, too high cell sensitivity to FGF10 drives the stripe of SDF 1a even if the polarized expression of receptors
dPM individuals in the caudal fragment to move towards and Cxer4/Cxcr7 occurs (figure 9a,b). On the other hand, too high
rapidly push forward PM individuals. As soon as the caudal cell chemical sensitivity to SDFla (e.g. an increase of one
fragment moves away, fgfrl-expressing cells in the central degree of magnitude in y,4,) results in an extremely stretched

(and rostral) fragment slow down and arrest, being both configuration of the fragments (or portions of fragments)


sdf gsdf
Kiet Asat aft os
