different flagella can take turns to assume the ‘exploratory’ will seek to identify structures capable of functioning as pace- ©
position (electronic supplementary material, video S10). makers for locomotor patterning in flagellates. By analogy with =
Given the dual sensory and motor capabilities of cilia and CPGs, we suggest that parts of the algal cytoskeleton may be = 5
flagella, this could signify an early evolution of division of independently capable of generating coupled oscillations. © =
labour. We suggest that symmetry-breaking in excitatory or This has enabled these organisms to dynamically reconfigure >
inhibitory signalling in the algal flagella apparatus specifies their gaits in response to environmental changes and uncer- — __
the local state of contractility of intracellular fibres to control tainty, without the need for a central controller. The latter feat = =
the activation state of individual flagella. This may be likened harkens to the embodiment perspective applicable to design- = 5!
to the case of vertebrate limbs, where antagonistic control of ing bioinspired robots, in which ‘control of the whole’ is = >
flexor and extensor muscles is provided by motor neurons or ‘outsourced to the parts’ [58]. As modern technology strives =
to marine invertebrate larvae, where specialized ciliomotor towards greater automation, engineering adaptability into arti- = &
neurons induce coordinated ciliary arrest [56]. We showed ficial systems has remained a formidable challenge. In this =
that in multiflagellates the ability to activate subsets of flagella sense, cell motility is in fact a form of physical embodiment, >
provides a novel mechanism for trajectory reorientations that wherein the compliant cytoskeleton and appendages enact N
is distinct from steering in sperm [57] and in other uniflagel- morphological computation. In the light of these findings, s
lates that rely upon a change in the beat pattern of a single we may wish to extend the scope of gait research beyond S
flagellum. A quadriflagellate can turn left, right, up or down, model vertebrates and invertebrates [24,59] to include aneural
depending on which of its four flagella is active. However, organisms. Much can be gained from exploring how simple
the extent to which organisms make use of these capabilities unicellular organisms sculpt motor output and achieve sensor-
warrants further study. imotor integration—for herein lie the evolutionary origins of

The diverse gaits of multiflagellates may have arisen from decentralized motion control.
different evolutionary pressures associated with a need to
occupy different ecological niches. Even small genetic changes Data accessibility. Please refer to the electronic supplementary material
could cause sufficient genetic rewiring of the basal apparatus for videos S1-10, and supplementary text file for more information.