coproporphyrin Ky 0.51 pM CDNB), competitive porphyrin fluorescence 42
GSH) emission changes
II-lll protoporphyrin IX Io 5-10 uM inhibition kinetics 42
coproporphyrin Ky 0.27 pM porphyrin fluorescence 42

emission changes
Mmesoporphyrin Ky 1.93 pM porphyrin fluorescence 42
emission changes

complex and that a high-affinity binding site with a dis- or catalysed by some GSTs present notably in insect heart will
sociation constant (Kg) value of 30nM_ was _ present have to be explored. In parasites such as P. falciparum, an
[48,49,55]. To the contrary, a study performed with a placenta alternative detoxification strategy to haem polymerization is
pi GST suggested the existence of two binding sites with affi- to degrade it despite the absence of an HO activity. In fact,
nities of 20 and 400 nM, which are modulated by GSH [53]. GSH spontaneously disrupts haems at neutral pH in the pres-
While there is no exhaustive comparative study, this is clearly ence of oxygen [59]. The presence of iron seems mandatory as
complicated by the existence of as many as 30 different GST there is no reaction with Zn-protoporphyrin or an iron-free
classes (all organisms considered) exhibiting different cataly- protoporphyrin. A role for GSH and GSTs in haem degra-
tic and structural properties (electronic supplementary dation in this organism is supported by the observation
material, table $1) [56]. In most studies, Kg constants, inhibi- that GSH levels and GST activity are significantly increased
tor binding affinity (K;) constants or half maximal inhibitory in parasites resistant to the anti-malarial drug chloroquine,
concentration (ICs9) values ranging from the nanomolar to that promotes intracellular haemin accumulation [60]. There
the micromolar range have been measured (table 1). are two GSTs in P. falciparum. The soluble PfGST is uncompe-
Although we consider that values above 10-15 M obtained titively inhibited by haemin (K; around 6.5 ,M), indicating
in these in vitro studies are less relevant, many factors, such that free haemin can be bound by the enzyme [48]. The essen-
as the presence of GSH or the nature of the bound porphyr- tial microsomal MAPEG-type GST, EXP1, has proven to