A particularly striking feature was the focus on physical engagement, and (v) the degree of turn-taking for those rituals
objects (toys) that were extracted from interaction partners’ that had multiple roles. However, structural commonalities in
bodies. Sometimes, partner 1 would bite tufts of hair out of the rituals have led us to hypothesize that they share a
partner 2, who would then pry open the mouth of partner common function (as bond-testing signals [6]) and/or onto-

1 to recover the hair. Using motor patterns typical of extrac- genetic process. Capuchin monkeys normally behave at a
tive foraging, the hair would then be passed back and forth rapid pace, both in their destructive foraging style and in
amicably between the two partners. Other times, non-edible their social interactions (e.g. rapid-fire grooming exchanges).
portions of plants were used as the game objects. Note that Even while resting, their visual attention typically wanders,
these objects had no nutritional value, and the monkeys seeking new foraging opportunities or monitoring others’
were surrounded by similar objects, which could be more social interactions. In striking contrast, their more creative
readily obtained. But it seemed that the object acquired social rituals proceed via slow, deliberate movements, and
value by virtue of the fact that monkey 1 had it in its posses- the participants’ faces bear almost trance-like expressions.
sion (i.e. it acquired ‘sacred object’ status by virtue of the fact Although participants rarely make eye-to-eye visual contact,
that it was being used in this ritual). The two monkeys would one or both monkeys focuses visual attention on some body
focus their attention on this object for several minutes part of its partner, often for several minutes at a time. Some-
(usually 10-30 min). times, both participants focus their attention jointly on an

These interactions are readily interpretable from Heesen object. The amount of time and the sustained focus devoted
et al.’s [18] framework, which views social play as joint to these rituals suggests that the two ritual partners value
action, i.e. interactional achievements whereby the partici- one another highly. Another common feature of these inter-
pants create a sense of togetherness. Those authors describe actions is that they typically involve some risk or discomfort,
three phases of these interactions, including formalized open- e.g. a finger in someone’s mouth where it is at risk of being
ings and closings, which capuchin rituals generally lack. injured by teeth, or a finger in another monkey’s eye socket,
Instead, our monkeys almost always began and ended their so that a quick movement could scratch the cornea. One