Below I describe a simple analogy between the physical pro-
cessing of material resources and the ritual processing of
psychological resources.

Start with raw material (trees). Physically process the raw
material (cut and cure the wood) creating a useable resource:
firewood. Burn firewood to yield a valuable product: heat.


resource: loyalty to the group and its values. Actualize the mating dances, but they do not have weddings. Note also El

resource yielding a valuable product: group stability that part (c) uses the phrase ‘direct instrumental purpose’.
(achieved by virtue of the fact that loyal members are more This refers to the causal opaqueness of ritual—meaning that S
likely to follow group norms, contribute to group endea- it is often difficult for observers to detect any practical effect z
vours, behave altruistically towards group members, etc., the ritual might be having. While some rituals have instrumen- 3
all of which strengthens and stabilizes the group). tal functions (such as ones described later in this article), they “S
More than a decade of research has shown that ritual are often obscure. Finally, parts (a) and (c) are also relevant to =
activity increases levels of pro-social psychological states the use of ritualized behaviours for hazard protection, such S
such as goodwill, empathy, trust, liking, perceived unity as recited prayers when facing threat or, in extreme cases, as = ©
and similarity [21,22]. Increased ritual participation is asso- part of obsessive/compulsive symptomology [42]. =
ciated with greater generosity and in-group normative Part (b) of the definition references ritual’s social or cultural = 5
behaviour [23-26]. Ritual does not just generate pro-social context. Relevant to this is the fact that group rituals havebeen = =
sentiments; it replenishes them as well. For example, ritual shown to have a number of important social functions, includ- S
behaviour, such as meditation or prayer, has been shown to ing: (i) the facilitating the identification of in-group members, __
restore dwindling reserves of self-control [27,28]. Ritual (ii) ensuring individual commitment to the group and cement- =