We found that synchrony had the expected negative effect
on creativity. Groups that had marched synchronously

(b) The neglected dark side of synchrony: effects of

synchrony on conformity and groupthink around campus wrote less creative stories than groups that
The functionalist perspective on synchrony focuses exclusively marched at their own pace (table 1 and figure 1). Neither
on the benefits of synchronous rituals for groups. Improved the complexity of stories nor the length of stories (word
cooperation and cohesion can indeed be adaptive for a group, count) varied based on condition, demonstrating the unique
lending the group an advantage in situations that would require effect of synchrony on suppressing creativity. Stories by syn-
coordination among its members. However, the major focus in chronous groups showed more typical characters and less
the literature on synchrony’s prosocial effects does not preclude innovative storylines than stories by asynchronous groups,
the potential for synchrony to have a dark side. suggesting that coordination can in fact present roadblocks

In support of this notion, several studies have found that to group success when it requires creative thought.’
synchrony can promote conformity [40,69], aggression [70] We next explored whether synchrony affects group dissent,
and destructive obedience [71,72]. For example, studies on syn- testing whether synchrony would make participants less likely
chrony and conformity found that synchrony made people to speak out against their group even when it was in their
more likely to copy majority opinions when selecting products, group’s interest. In this second study, 278 participants were
rather than following their personal preferences [69]. Comp- assigned to 80 groups, each with three or four members. We
lementary studies on synchrony and destructive obedience manipulated synchrony through a chanting task adapted from
found that synchrony—compared to a non-synchrony control past research [10] that required the group to either chant the
activity—made people more likely to comply with a request same one-syllable words as each other (synchronous condition)
to administer a sound blast to a stranger [71], and more likely or different one-syllable words from each other (asynchronous
to follow an experimenter’s command to grind up live pill- condition) for 6 min. We then measured group dissent using