(gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos) and 1 year old infants, ences explain the species differences observed here? or do
favoured the use of a spatial rather than a feature-based humans rely on and use such elaborate sequences and routines
memory strategy, while 3 year olds showed the reverse strategy because learning them comes so easily and naturally?
[42]. Finally, in a previous study by Swartz et al. [43], the oran- While most developmental research has focused on the
gutans (one of which was involved in this study) unique pressures faced by human children to learn new instru-
spontaneously used a spatial strategy (selecting items from mental skills by imitation [52-54], less attention has been paid
right to left) when encoding and recalling unordered items to the challenges associated with the vicarious and social learn-
on a touchscreen task similar to the cognitive task used here. ing of arbitrary sequences, critical for both language and ritual
These factors may explain orangutans’ comparatively better [55,56]. The evidence that does exist suggests that placing serial
performance in the spatial than the cognitive task. responses in a ‘ritual’ context enhances imitation fidelity [56,57].
Children did not show any overall performance differen- For example, making sequences causally opaque and without
ces between the tasks, and the pattern of their performance an obvious end goal—two core features of rituals [35]—
differences by age replicates and extends previously reported increases, rather than decreases, imitation fidelity; but the fact
results [19,20,44,45]. is that children in general excel at imitating all types of
Species differences are further highlighted by our predic- sequences [58-60]. While our results confirm that humans
tive analyses (electronic supplementary material, tables S1, and orangutans share various individual sequence learning
$2, $4 and $5 and figure $3). These show that children’s spatial skills, the faithful copying of socially demonstrated arbitrary
Social performance is predicted by their spatial Ghost perform- sequences is highly developed in humans relative to orangu-
ance (consistent with children being adept vicarious learners, tans. This is consistent with the hypothesis that imitation of
regardless of source). However, neither orangutans’ spatial novel arbitrary sequences is a human cognitive specialization
Social performance nor their cognitive Social performance is [23,61]. From a developmental perspective, we do not have
significantly predicted by either their individual learning enough information to determine the extent to which this
(Recall) or their vicarious learning (Ghost). Neither orangu- specialization is acquired via experience [26]. Also, from an
tans’ nor children’s Social performance across tasks was evolutionary perspective, we cannot say conclusively whether
predicted by their Recall performance. Together these results this skill precipitated complex tool use, language and symbolic