figure likely changes with developmental stage of the leaves. ,

Chloroplasts dominate many metabolic pathways of the meso- redox homeostasis and retrograde signalling
phyll cell, such as carbon-, nitrogen- and sulfur-assimilation, As discussed in the previous section, retrograde signalling from
and are involved in most other synthetic pathways. plastids requires mechanisms to traverse the envelope. Apart
Photosynthetic carbon assimilation runs with an average from relay-type systems (figure 1), realized, e.g. by the proteolytic
rate of 100 pmol CO, fixed per mg chlorophyll per hour cleavage and activation of the PTM from the outer face of the
at ambient CO, concentration and saturating photon flux den- outer envelope by retrograde signalling [3], retrograde control
sity [6]. This provides a rather precise number for the rate of deploys metabolite transfer. This section presents some selected
export of sugar phosphates, particularly of triosephosphates knowledge on transporters which for the time being can be cate-
or hexoses, from the chloroplast. As previously estimated, the gorized in those participating in bulk transport of assimilates like
entirety of the chloroplasts of a mesophyll cell exposes a surface triosephosphates (figure 2). Many of them are well characterized
area similar to that of the plasma membrane in Arabidopsis [7]. and in fact the triosephosphate/ phosphate translocator (TPT)
For this estimation, the shape of a chloroplast was taken as an was among the first transporter proteins cloned from plants
ellipsoid with the dimensions of 8 x 4x4 pm’, which has a [15]. Another category of transporters catalyse the transfer of
surface area of 86pm” per chloroplast. The chloroplast more specialized metabolites in smaller quantities, like O-acetyl-
number per mg chlorophyll varies between 1x 10° and 2x serine (OAS), PAP or glutathione (GSH). The nature of members
10” [8,9]. With the assumption of 10” chloroplasts per mg of the third category of transporters, carrying distinctive
chlorophyll and export of triosephosphates, 33 pmol dihydrox- signalling metabolites, often still awaits clarification.

yacetone phosphate (DHAP, which is a triosephosphate) are

exported across 860 cm? envelope per hour. This rate defines

the main transport pathway (bulk transport). All other trans- (a) Triosephosphate/phosphate translocator