that predicted by the direct effect of temperature on a single figure 4).

species, and even be of opposite sign (figure 3). Thus, ignoring Similar insights can be gleaned about the effects of variabil-
indirect effects and making predictions about population ity on average rates for interacting predator and prey species.
dynamics solely from individual demographic rates (e.g. Temperature variability is likely to lower average attack rates
growth) may create erroneous expectations, sometimes in the when the temperature distribution is centred near the peak of
opposite direction (figure 3; electronic supplementary material, the predator’s TPC (figure 2 when TPC offset is around 0),
figure S2). This highlights the importance of considering temp- whereas it results in higher average attack rates at lower temp-
erature effects in contexts with both intra- and interspecific eratures (figure 2 when TPC offset is large and positive), such
interactions. Third, results depend on the differences in predator that temperature variation occurs in the convex part of the
and prey TPCs (ie. if the predator TPC is optimized at a higher, predator’s TPC. Temperature variability in these ranges of
identical or lower temperature than its prey). Finally, results from the TPC thus promotes predator persistence by resulting in
our model show ignoring temperature variability could over- sufficiently high attack rates on average. In fact, simulations
predict negative impacts of warming on population and com- using the average predator attack and prey growth rates that
munity trajectories. Even under warming temperatures, arise under variable temperatures yield similar overall patterns
temperature variability results in periods in which temperatures of stability and coexistence (see electronic supplementary
return to a range under which species can grow (figure 4), material, figure S3 and §S1.3 for details).

though our results show that the predator populations may Importantly, our results demonstrate that understanding
still eventually collapse as warming intensifies (figure 4d). how a particular temperature regime affects predator popu-
These findings have important implications for natural commu- lations requires knowledge of temperature dependencies of
nities as temperature variability is predicted to increase further both species and how they interact. The true ‘net’ effect of

due to global warming. temperature variability on predator populations may be
