
the effect of the social contexts after the early olfactory experience, are bitterly attacked and repelled, while nest-mates are inspec-

the post-sensitive window adult wasps were introduced into ted through antennation and peacefully ignored [59,70,71].

a novel social environment (i.e. foster nest). Each wasp was then The general level of aggression among the treatment groups
individually marked and transferred to a foreign nest (foster might inform about the motivation of wasps to defend the

nest) from a different population before being tested in recognition colony depending on their different early olfactory experience.
bioassays recording the behavioural response (aggressive acts) Furthermore, as we provided contrasting olfactory versus social
towards different wasp lures the following day, to allow accli- cues, our experimental design also allows us to infer to what
matization [59]. F workers were transferred to the nests that had degree NMR is impaired by contrasting information during indi-
provided the nest fragments for the early exposure in Petri vidual ontogeny. In fact, the combination of different early
dishes. Nests were maintained at 8°C in a refrigerator for 1h olfactory experience with social environment may have a modu-
before introducing the focal wasp in order to calm down the latory or synergic effect on the behavioural response of the
resident wasps and facilitate acceptance of focal wasps by foster wasps. For example, C wasps, which experienced olfactory
nest-mates. Nests were monitored for 1h after introduction of cues from their natal nest during the early adult sensitive

focal wasps to evaluate the behavioural response of resident phase and contrasting social cues from the foster nest, might
wasps towards the foreign individual. Regardless of treatment, respond less aggressively to lures from both the natal and

focal wasps approaching nests were inspected by resident wasps foster nests with respect to aliens. Similarly, ‘F’ wasps, which

with their antennae, but no particular aggressive reaction was experienced concordant early olfactory and social cues from the
recorded towards the introduced individuals. After acceptance, foster nest, could defend more strenuously their adoptive