Figure 3. Cyanidioschyzon merolae GTPase-activating protein and HDA3 complex subunit bind to haem. (a) Soluble fractions of GTPase-activating protein (CMJ230C)
and HDA complex subunit (CML100C) were inputted (I) into haemin-agarose beads. After extensive washing, bound proteins were eluted (E) with the SDS sample
buffer. The recombinant proteins were detected by western blotting with polyclonal His-tag antibodies. Arabidopsis thaliana p22HBP and E. coli TF proteins were
used as positive and negative controls, respectively. (b) Competitive assay of haem binding. Indicated concentration of haemin solution was mixed with CMJ230C
(41mg ml") and CML100C (1 ml mI~') and subjected to haemin-agarose beads. Eluted proteins were detected by western blotting with polyclonal His-tag anti-
bodies. (c) Absorption spectra of haemin solution (black) and haemin—CMJ230C complex (red). Equal molar concentration (6 uM) of haemin and purified CMJ230C
were mixed for measurement. (d) Absorption spectra of haemin solution (black) and haemin—CML100C—TF complex (red). To 3.5 uM purified CML100C—TF, three-
fold concentration (10.5 uM) of haemin and purified SRT1 were mixed for measurement. (e) Differential UV-visible spectra of haemin (0-25 M) as a function of
haemin concentration in the presence of CML100C (10 pM). (Inset) Plot of the absorbance value at 415 nm (dashed line) of haemin as a function of haemin
concentration. Data were fitted with nonlinear regression assuming one-site binding.

(electronic supplementary material, figure S4e), confirming covalently attached haem prevented the binding to proteins.
specific haem binding of CML100C. We further monitored the In fact, when we analysed haemoproteins (catalase, myoglobin,
haemin binding by absorbance, following the evolution of the apo-HRP) for haemin-agarose assay, no binding was observed
Soret peak at 415nm which appears in the presence of (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). It is interesting
CML100C. The absorbance values, plotted in the inset of to note that apo-HRP, which spontaneously binds to haemin
figure 3c, gave a saturation curve from which a Kg of 1.33 + to form an active holo-enzyme, did not bind to haemin-agarose.
0.25 uM was estimated, assuming one haemin bound per Thus, it is likely that only proteins which can bind to haemin at
domain. These results demonstrated that, as well as Arabidopsis the surface with substantial specificity can bind to haemin-
SRT1, Cy. merolae and CML100C bind to haem with high liganded beads. In addition, already reported haem-binding
specificity. proteins such as Fbx3, TSPO and p22HBP/SOUL were not

included in this list, probably protein binding was dependent
on their expression, solubility and affinity to the beads. It
should be noted that because many identified proteins had