implies, this seems unlikely. important respects. First, they are nested in larger social entities

In sum: while very likely cultural learning in erectine resi- (communities or ethnolinguistic groups). This nesting is mani-
dential groups was much less efficient than in later hominin fest in regular interaction variously through kinship ties (in
social life, it seems unlikely that this is the full explanation of humans, much more elaborate than those of great apes and
the stasis of the early Acheulian. not dependent on co-residence [47,48]), through acknowledged

relations of reciprocation (of which the San Hxaro system is a
famous exemplar [49]), or through shared ritual connection
[50]. These various forms of relationship establish and stabilize

3. Metapopulation dynamics horizontal affiliative connections between agents who live in
While the individual capacities of Middle Pleistocene agents different residential groups. It is manifest in the fact that in
and the social organization of their residential groups both most forager cultures, in favourable circumstances, residential
influence the prospects of an innovation establishing locally, bands aggregate, often supposedly for shared ritual activities
for innovations to persist over time and to be more archaeologi- [51,52]. It is manifest in an explicitly shared set of symbols:
cally visible, they must establish regionally. That makes the modes of dress and decoration; distinctive ritual practices
metagroup dynamics of these populations causally relevant to which often include some form of a narrative of common ori-
the prospects of innovations persisting. Premo & Kuhn [46] gins and connection; often a shared language or dialect, as in
point out that residential groups are demographically fragile, Papua New Guinea wantoks (= ‘one talk’ in Tok Pisin). These
vulnerable to many kinds of bad luck and trouble, so that an links bind residential groups into larger communities.

innovation that establishes locally is almost certain to be lost Second, forager residence is fluid to such an extent that Mar-
unless it spreads beyond its group of origin. Hopkinson et al. lowe, in writing about the Hadza, argued that the standard
[24] take up this idea, combining it with their view of limited cul- concepts of male or female philopatry simply do not apply to