tal support hypothesis falls into the category of a predictive [158]. There are also a number of insect systems with flexi-
adaptive response [21-23], where the cues are predictive of bility in parental care, offering additional situations for
the developmental environment, but not necessarily the experimental manipulation. For instance, burying beetles
adult environment. The developmental support hypothesis directly feed offspring, but the degree of care varies with
predicts that individuals growing in situations of reduced season, and interactions with siblings and mites [159-161].
developmental support should have higher fitness in these While existing research has focused on mammals (especially
environments than those initially exposed to a high-quality rodents), studying a greater diversity of species may uncover
environment and then switched to a low-quality developmen- unique adaptations in certain species or broad-scale patterns
tal environment (figure 1b). For instance, we would predict that across species.
reduced neural growth in maternally separated rats would be It is likely that, as we consider a greater range of species and
associated with a decrease in associated neural costs, such as environments, we will begin to see significant variation in the
a decline in brain metabolic rate and the need for long periods degree of neural plasticity in response to cues of developmental
of sleep early in development. Similarly, the developmental support. Much existing literature focuses on the fact that there
support hypothesis predicts that smaller, highly stress- is plasticity, but the broader literature on plasticity general
responsive offspring are more likely to survive in conditions reveals substantial variation within and between species in
where parental care is compromised and environments are the degree of plasticity [28,162,163]. We can quantify this
inherently more stressful. There are a handful of studies show- variation in plasticity through reaction norms (figure 2a) and
ing adaptive changes in learning ability and neural use it to measure associated costs and benefits of plasticity
development in response to early-life stress [130,149]. Indeed, ((164]; figure 2b). Are there some genotypes or species with
as predicted by the developmental support hypothesis, the neural development that is robust to perturbations in the
development of neural connectivity seems to speed up in social environment? What are the underlying proximate or
humans that experienced early-life stress [149] potentially lead- ultimate mechanisms? For instance, there is a literature which
ing to offspring independence earlier in life. However, we are suggests that long lifespans and variable environments
very much at the beginning of considering the suite of adaptive favour the evolution of large brains and behavioural plasticity
responses in environments with comprised developmental [165,166]—given the costs of large brains and variability of