stimulus and suggest that there could be a plastic component
of Chr-based recognition in birds. A recent study measured
the behavioural response of two host species, the American
robin Turdus migratorius and the European blackbird Turdus
merula, to gradients of natural (blue-green to brown) and artifi-
cial (green to purple) egg colour [126]. Interestingly, it was (f) Eggs and nestlings often have complex visual
found that host discrimination decisions were not based on desi gns

perceived visual differences between host and experimental : . .
eggs as estimated with a visual model. Indeed, hosts were Egg and nestling colour designs can be very complexasiillustrated
more prone to reject brown eggs and to accept blue ones in figure 2. Many birds have highly polymorphic eggs regarding
we coloration and spottiness; such has been shown in the tawny-
regardless of the fact that they showed similar absolute per- flanked prinia, Prinia sub itized by th koo finch
ceived differences from their own eggs [126]. Similar findings ane pr . nna su bf om paras y . e ene °° c
. . . Anomalospiza imberbis, or in the European magpie parasitized by
have been shown in magpies, Pica pica hosts of great spotted th t spotted cuckoo (fi 2). Also, the colour desi f
cuckoos Clamator glandarius [40], and in the chalk-browed © Brea Spo cuc 0° . Sure 2). NSO, Me Colour esigns °
ew . . as : nestlings of many altricial birds can be very complex, and mimicry
mockingbird, Mimus saturninus host parasitized by the shiny for inst invol loration, but also the si d distri
cowbird Molothrus bonariensis [127], as well as in great reed MAY TOP MS!ANCE MVONE CONTA DUE ASO ENE SIZE aN ST
. bution of colour patches, as in the interaction between the brood
warblers, Acrocephalus arundinaceus [128]. Also, one compara- itic pin-tailed whydah, Vid d th
tive work has shown that common cuckoo Cuculus canorus en Pp ei “ nil oth is “a Bove . tinea, che
hosts parasitized with more blue, green and_ ultraviolet wax ti sm wt ‘hy b ‘ae ed b ih Spo beta a
cuckoo eggs, or those laying more blue-green eggs, were cone ce necting 8 inche, 1135] or in iz 1136 ‘The RNL ode!