istic only of chimpanzee social lives. But while great ape years. Nut-cracking by West African chimpanzees does not
residential groups vary in their character, none of them is seem to have spread much [35, pp. 158-160], but archaeological
nested in a larger community with the open texture of recent evidence from marks on hammerstones suggests that the tra-
human forager bands (unlike some baboon species).* So, the dition is thousands (but not tens of thousands) of years old
least improbable inference is that the ancestral social organiz- ([60], pp. 160-162). However, this form of social organization
ation of hominin society was Pan-like, with residential also sharply constrains the diffusion of innovation, as infor-
groups having very little social connection with neighbours, mation about a local innovation is mostly carried by dispersing
probably with male philopatry and adolescent female disper- subadult females. While social worlds are still largely closed,
sal. Layton and colleagues [57,58] have argued on the basis even if adjoining groups meet without open violence, they are
of raw material transport distances that this ancestral social unlikely to be expressing their innovations in technology and
organization persisted into the Pleistocene, until the evolution technique. Perhaps some information about innovation leaks
of the Heidelbergensians. If they are right, that would help sideways through discarded tools and evidence of their uses. Per-
explain the Acheulian stasis of about 1.7 Ma to about 800 ka, haps, for example, the fact that fire can be domesticated might
and the slow fade-out thereafter. First, it supports the expec- spread this way. Even so, information about what a focal
tation that erectine residential groups had more restricted group can do is mostly carried to adjoining groups by this
lifespans, for the emergence of multi-level societies reduces kind of dispersal, and that has important consequences.
the cultural and demographic fragility of residential groups. First, it means that skills and artefacts that are mostly associ-
Regular interaction helps compensate for the loss of expertise ated with males will not readily disperse (or vice versa, if females
through untimely deaths. Moreover, residential fluidity are philopatric and males disperse). If hunting and bully scaven-
means that sex ratio and other imbalances are eased by incen- ging were important components of the erectine foraging
tives to move in and out. Likewise, the existence of reciprocal economy, there are likely to be sex-based differences. Wrangham
ties gives residential groups options in the face of local hard has argued persuasively that the acquisition of medium and
times: they can often negotiate temporary movement into large game through either of these strategies is risky, with
others’ territories, on the expectation that they will reciprocate many failures [13]. So, it would not be sustainable without
when necessary. Kelly calls these forms of negotiation the being paired with a fallback strategy. A division of labour