these inversions because the cytology of R. pomonella is not of populations have a lower incidence of direct development
high enough quality to allow us to adequately resolve polytene and eclose earlier as adults than co-occurring hawthorn fly
chromosomes in the fly to physically (visually) confirm the populations, including at the sympatric Fennville site [27,31].
presence of chromosomal rearrangements [20]. However, the However, as discussed above, the putative inversion haplo-
high LD displayed among particular sets of loci [26,40,41], types on chromosomes 1-3 show an association of deeper
combined with the observations of significant heterogeneity initial diapause depth with later adult eclosion. While such a
in estimated recombination rates and variation in locus relationship is aligned with the latitudinal selection pressures
mapping order [42], allow inversions to be inferred based on on hawthorn flies, it is not for apple flies at local sites, as the
classic genetic evidence [43]. Fourth and finally, as a conse- optimal fitness combination for the apple compared to haw-
quence of the inversions, adult eclosion time was more thorn race is greater initial diapause intensity and earlier, not
highly correlated between the apple and hawthorn host races later, adult eclosion. Indeed, GWAS, laboratory selection exper-
for the high LD class of SNPs mapping to chromosomes 1-3 iments, and population surveys have shown that apple flies do,
than for the remainder of the genome. in fact, possess higher frequencies of alleles associated with
Genomic studies have also been conducted on initial increased initial diapause intensity (and, thus, later eclosion)
diapause intensity for the apple and hawthorn host races and than hawthorn flies at sympatric sites, especially for the putative
the phenotype shown to be genetically correlated with adult eclo- inversions on chromosomes 1-3 [27,40,44,45]. Thus, the corre-
sion time [27,39,44]. Specifically, alleles associated with greater lation between greater diapause intensity and later adult
initial pupal diapause intensity prior to chilling were correlated ecolsion within these inversion haplotypes does not differ
genome-wide with later adult eclosion following winter between the host races. This suggests that gene-by-environment
(r= 0.525, p< 0.0001, 1 = 5990 SNPs; [27]). The correlation was interactions [46] and/or other yet to be identified compensatory
strongest for loci displaying high levels of LD with one another variants, probably not associated with the inversions on
on chromosomes 1-3, associated with the putative inversion chromosomes 1-3, are responsible for the earlier eclosion of
polymorphisms (r = 0.808, p < 0.0001, 1 = 284 SNPs; [27]). apple than hawthorn flies at sympatric sites (table 1).
The genetic correlation between greater initial diapause Given that fruits on blueberries ripen even earlier than
intensity and later eclosion time is aligned with historical those on apples, we predict that the same genomic pattern,