superficial resemblance is to be seen in Stenopora Jackii. (Vide Nicnoxson 17, p. 81,
woodcut fig. 10B and ¢.) It is clear, however, that the habit of growth is not to be
relied upon as an indication of zoological affinity. In Stenopora the corallites wouk
seem to be separate and independent of one another: each has its own proper wa
which is not even fused with the walls of adjoining corallites. In Heliopora, as wi
have seen, the walls of each tube are not even originally distinct, but are common to
it and to adjacent tubes. I must insist here upon the fact, which has been abundantly
proved in the course of this paper, and was originally pointed out by Mosrtey, that
the walls of each tube are composed of several pieces, each of which takes a share in
forming the walls of other tubes, and similarly the walls of the calicles are formed by
numerous separate pieces, each of which takes a share in forming the walls of
contiguous tubes. There is no fusion or amalgamation of separate tubes, corallites or
calicles. This important fact has been entirely overlooked by NicHorson (16), who

“ says, in describing the skeleton of Heliolites, which in this respect is similar to that
of Heliopora (loc. cit. p. 244), “the corallites ave universally and throughout in
complete contact, their walls being so entirely amalgamated that no trace of their
originally duplex constitution can be detected.” This “duplex constitution” of the
walls is a pure assumption, and, moreover, it is made in defiance of the ascertained
structure of Heliopora, whose tube wails certainly have no such duplex constitution,
Throughout his writings, NicHorson falls into this same error of assuming that —
wherever the walls of the corallites or ccenenchymal tubes of an extinct coral are not
obviously separate from one another, they must nevertheless have been originally
distinct and have been subsequently fused together. From my own observations,
and from a comparison of the writings of other observers, it seems to me that the