cells undergoing morphogenesis, actomyosin is usually and are important for PCP [4]. This polarized aligned non-
highly concentrated in the apical region of cells, both near centrosomal microtubule cytoskeleton within the wing cells
cell-cell adherens junctions, and also in the apical-medial also allows the cells to bear compressive forces during morpho-
domain of cells, just underlying the free apical plasma genesis. Accordingly, the loss of these microtubules leads to cell
membrane. Over the last decade this apical-medial pool of shortening [20]. Microtubules have previously been shown to
actomyosin has been shown to be highly dynamic, displaying be able to bear compressive loads, suggesting this might be a
a pulsatile behaviour, and to be crucial for the apical constric- more general function [21].
tion of whole cells or isolated apical cell-cell junctions [12-14]. In part of the Drosophila embryonic epidermis, microtubules
Actomyosin does not seem to work in isolation, though, as even take on a more active role in eliciting cell shape change.
work analysing the invagination of the embryonic salivary The cells of the forming amnioserosa in the embryo undergo
glands from a placode in Drosophila has shown. In this tissue a process of drastic cell shape change and elongation, going
primordium, a non-centrosomal microtubules cytoskeleton is from a columnar epithelium with isotropic apical surfaces to
in fact required for the assembly and/or maintenance of highly squamous and elongated epithelial cells. Growing
the apical-medial actomyosin pool and hence the apical dynamic microtubules appear to actively push against apical
constriction [15]. The non-centrosomal microtubules in these junctions to increase the apical surface, reined in by cortical
epithelial cells run the length of the cells and directly abut actin, which prevents precocious elongation (figure 1e) [22].
the apical-medial actomyosin (figure 1c). Disrupting the These results demonstrate that microtubules are not only
microtubule cytoskeleton severely alters or abrogates the passive structures involved in maintaining cell shape but
dynamic pulsatility of the apical-medial actomyosin. Similar actually play crucial functions during tissue morphogenesis,
mechanisms might be at work in other tissues and organisms, potentially acting as mechanosensors as assessed in vitro [23].

as the microtubule cytoskeleton is also required for the for-
mation of the indentation of the morphogenetic furrow in

Drosophila larval eye discs [16] and for bottle cell formation 4. Microtubules as modulators of Rho/Rok