
from the environment each generation, with maternal or
mixed-mode transmission occurring in only about 15% of the
scleractinian species [28]. The diversity of Symbiodiniaceae

species in the environment is considerably larger than that (( Impact of pho osymbiont genotypic diversity on

found in individual coral species or colonies, and coral speci- coral responses and evolution
ficity for one or a small number of algal species and strains is The Symbiodiniaceae family comprises many species in seven
the norm (reviewed in [15]). This points to the existence of rec- genera and five additional evolutionary lineages that currently
ognition mechanisms that permit the host to distinguish lack formal nomenclature [5]. Some coral species harbour tax-
between symbionts and non-symbionts [45,46], a notion that onomically distinct Symbiodiniaceae symbionts in different
is supported by the fact that colonies of the same coral species habitats or geographical locations, and even individual coral
in a population tend to harbour the same algal symbiont com- colonies are often able to form a stable symbiosis with more
munities, and by the observation that aposymbiotic coral larvae than one Symbiodiniaceae species or strain simultaneously;
and young recruits can only be infected by a subset of Symbio- sometimes different symbiont species dominate different
diniaceae species in the laboratory. Little is known about this parts of the colony (reviewed in [15]). While there is a lack of
recognition mechanism, other than that it involves host pattern cophylogeny between coral and Symbiodiniaceae symbionts,
recognition receptors (such as lectins) and symbiont microbe- there is evidence for some level of specificity. This is prevalent
associated molecular patterns (MAMPs, such as glycans) [47- in recent divergences in the Caribbean, such as the case of the
49]. Additional host adaptations allowing symbionts to colonize recently evolved Cladocopium C3 radiation only found in Orbi-
the host cells, for the host to control symbiont growth rates and cella corals [68] and Symbiodinium fitti in Acropora [69], but also
to remove symbionts when population sizes are too large or in deeper divergences where distinct Breviolum spp. associate
symbionts are dysfunctional, were likely also driven by the with different coral species in the subfamily Faviinae (B. favi-
origin of the coral-Symbiodiniaceae symbiosis [44,50]. Selection inorum), the family Meandrinidae (B. meandrinum) and the