Our results suggest that motivation to engage in cognitive learning task where individuals had to flexibly change to an
testing and to persist in problem-solving decreases with alternative solution once the previously learned strategy was
increasing age, while the ability to inhibit a prepotent not functioning any more [15]. By contrast, aged common mar-
response or to switch to an alternative strategy is less clearly mosets (Callithrix jacchus) displayed more difficulties in
related to age. To be clear, our results do not allow us to con- inhibiting their movement to reach forward instead of reaching
clude that the cognitive capacity of older monkeys does not around a barrier, while younger marmosets were all capable of =
decline. Possibly, older subjects that did not participate performing successfully in this task [16]. The presence ofafood = 5
would have performed poorly. Studies that rely on voluntary reward could further impact not only the motivation toengage = =
participation are unable to resolve this question. Yet, given ina task but also the performance during testing. In chimpan- >
the results of the inhibitory control task, where a substantial zees, the visible presence of a food reward afflicted Ss
number of older monkeys participated, we assume it is war- performance [35]. A similar effect may explain our result in = =
ranted to conclude that motivation and cognitive ability vary the cognitive flexibility task. The poor performance might — 5!
independently with age. Overall, motivation seems to follow have been enhanced by the fact that the door behind which = >
a different trajectory from inhibitory control and cognitive the food item was placed could be moved slightly. This mova- =
flexibility. In line with our results, a study on chimpanzees bility of the blocked door potentially triggered the repeated = &
found that aged chimpanzees tended to explore less com- attempts to open it. =
pared with their younger conspecifics [20]. Neophobia, i.e. The comparison between studies is somewhat hampered >
the avoidance of novel objects or situations, can also influence by methodological variation. For instance, experience with N
an individual's preference for exploration and represents one transparent objects is likely to play a role in dealing with S
aspect of the motivational spectrum [29]. A previous study in novel problem-solving tasks that include a transparent barrier 3
Barbary macaques revealed that the interest for novel objects 36]. We assume that familiarity with transparent objects did
seemed to diminish early in adulthood, whereas the presence not impact the performance in our study however, as the last
of a reward boosted the likelihood to explore up into old age. study involving transparent objects was carried out 2 years

Changes in activity patterns with increasing age might add before we started [21]. Furthermore, some studies included