that can be assimilated easily are only those that are consistent ible future experimental tests in the general discussion.
with what is already known.

Before continuing, we consider both specific and general

implications of the finding that the aspects of a new item that 3. Learning arbitrary aspects of new things
it shares with other items may be easier to learn than its more

idiosyncratic aspects. Specifically, let us apply this observation efficiently
to a consideration of the findings of Tse et al. [11,12]. They We now turn ourattention toa set of issues that go to the heart of
found rapid neocortical consolidation of schema-consistent questions about the role of experience replay in neocortical con-
information in that their animals learned to map a new flavour solidation, starting from an issue that we raised in McClelland
onto a place in a familiar environment. Importantly, we note et al. [7]. There we considered the fact that integration of new
that the places animals had to associate with these new flavours knowledge without interference into a neocortex-like network
were immediately adjacent to places already associated with pre- required interleaving with items previously learned, and we
viously learned flavours. For all practical purposes, the animals have just illustrated this point again in our new simulations
could have mapped the new flavours exactly onto the familiar with the sparrowhawk. We have refined the analysis to make
adjacent places since they would have effectively reached the clear that some aspects of information about a new item can
new places by navigating to the already familiar ones. Thus, be integrated quickly and without interference, but to fully inte-
only the very easy part of neocortical consolidation may have grate the new item may require extensive interleaved learning.
been necessary in their study. Further research is needed to A pressing problem then arises: interleaved learning in all of
understand whether neocortical consolidation of a new location our existing simulations has involved interleaving the new
within an existing environment would occur equally rapidly; it item with the full corpus of other items previously learned.
could be that locations less similar to those already learned This could be impractical at least for adult humans, since the
would require more gradual, interleaved learning. totality of a human’s knowledge would be very extensive