that are later used to guide the selection of the areas where [49], lotteries are believed to be prototypical of real-life
neurons will be recorded in monkeys. A desirable intermediate decisions [50]. Outcomes and their probabilities are described
step, to reinforce the functional correspondence between to participants, who often (especially in the first generation of
human and monkey brain activations, would be to also behavioural economics studies) make only one or very few
deploy fMRI in monkeys [45]. Similarly, in some neurologic decisions, without being informed about the outcome of
and psychiatric diseases, intra-cranial neural activity can also their choices (in general to purposely prevent learning pro-
be recorded in humans [41]. Finally, all these data can then cesses from influencing decision-making [51]). On the other
be combined together to propose and validate a neurobiologi- side, monkey electrophysiological research adopts very differ-
cally plausible model of the behavioural process of interest. ent methodological standards. For various reasons (including
Thereafter, the proposed model should be validated using ethical ones), monkey studies are limited in terms of sample
lesions and assessing its generalizability. Methods such as size, and consequently, the number of observations per subject
trans-cranial magnetic stimulation and brain lesions can be is greatly increased in order to increase statistical power and
used to test the alleged causal relationship between neural cor- reduce measurement noise. In fact, behavioural tasks in mon-
relates and behavioural processes [46-48]. The model's ability keys display a greater number of trials per subject, collected
to generalize can be assessed by generating predictions in on a sample size of often less than five subjects (e.g. [52,53]).
tasks involving different decision problems and behavioural Both parameters (sample size and number of trials) are

processes (out-of-sample validation). roughly a couple of orders of magnitude different compared


(a)

sample size no. trials per subject

human