

implies risk aversion. Both pessimistic and optimistic biases have been reported in the literature, with the latter bias being
more frequently reported [72-75].

While it is tempting to see the positivity bias as the experience-based antithesis of loss aversion, their formalism and
psychological interpretations are quite different and they are, therefore, not mutually exclusive. Indeed, loss aversion con-
cerns the valuation of prospective losses, while the positivity bias concerns the retrospective assessment of past losses.

It is important to note that, in humans, although the average values of the behavioural biases are reported as described
above (for instance: inverse S-shape in description-based paradigms and loss neglect in experience-based paradigms; see
figure 3a), their results are further tempered by a high degree of inter-individual variability in the bias parameters. At the
individual level, some subjects may in fact display opposite biases in both experimental settings [72,76]. If inter-individual
variability is equally high in other primates, the fact that monkey studies use very small sample size (figure 2) can contribute
to explaining the comparably less consistent picture observed (table 1).

monkey studies, whenever outcomes and probabilities are con- choices using either model-free or model-based measures
veyed via a symbolic system, the system is nonetheless learned [81,82,101].
and maintained by trial-by-trial outcomes (ie. a situation simi- Finally, it can be argued that if monkeys are a good mode!
lar to the ‘description plus experience’ paradigm, described for human decision-making under uncertainty, they should
above). In such ‘pseudo’ description-based paradigm, monkeys display a description-experience gap. To our knowledge, so
are trained to associate continuous variations in one visual fea- far only one study explicitly tackled this issue [102]. Monkeys
ture (e.g. colour or size) to continuous variations of a decision were asked to make repeated choices between safe, and risky
variable (e.g. outcomes or probabilities). The comparison is options, whose outcome probability was either learned by
further complicated by the fact that only few studies formalize experience or described by the ratio between colours on a rec-