on learned symbolic systems to communicate values) is, at behaviour was higher for experience-based cues.
best, mixed. PT has been explicitly tested in paradigms using To summarize, the literature seems to suggest that monkeys’
visual cues carrying symbolic information similar to those pre- decision-making for experience-based choice is quite consistent
sented to humans (e.g. pie-charts). Only a few studies show with what is observed in humans in terms of risk preference.
results in conformity with the pattern of description-based This is consistent with a large body of literature showing that
decisions observed in humans. Risk aversion, suggestive of the neural substrates of reinforcement learning are largely pre-
marginally decreasing utility in the gain domain, has been served in the two species [103,104]. Risk seeking in this context
rarely reported [93]. Nioche et al. [98] is the sole study confirm- may be driven by a higher learning rate from positive compared
ing all PT features: marginally decreasing utility (risk aversion to negative prediction errors, which is essentially a compu-
in the gain domain), loss aversion (risk seeking in the loss tational reinforcement learning translation of the ‘hot hand’
domain) and subjective probability weighting consistent with fallacy [105,106]. The situation is much less reassuring concern-
overestimation of rare events. Probability weighting function ing description-based decisions, as preferences compatible with
consistent with standard PT has been reported by other studies, PT are rarely observed. This can be due to the fact that pseudo
but the same studies also reported increasing marginal utility description-based design in monkeys resembles the ‘description
and risk seeking in the gain domain, which is not typically plus experience’ set-up in humans, where PT-like deformations
observed in description-based decisions in humans [95,97]. are blunted or even disappear, as if description-based and experi-
Many others pseudo description-based experiments also ence-based biases reciprocally cancel themselves [78,79]. As a
reported risk-seeking attitudes and/or marginally increasing result, it remains unclear to what extent description-based pro-
utility in gains [91,92,94,96]. In addition, although the cesses can be elicited in the non-human primate animal model.

traditional inverse probability weighting function has some-
times been observed [95,98], variation of experimental design

features (such as randomly mixing gambles instead of repeat- . . .
ing the same gambles sequentially) can reverse the direction 4. The Impact of other experimental differences