provides an effort in the same direction. economic system that encompasses a variety of behaviours ==

The first solution—the one supported by a so-called ortho- that can be properly defined as ‘economic’. +
dox approach in economics—is to assume that individuals are The common ground of the papers in this theme issue is __
endowed with cognitive abilities that are sufficient for them to that they address the question as to whether the roots of | =
maximize their individual welfare through their decisions in human economic behaviour can be traced back to non- = 5!
their typical environments. It is not necessary, at this stage, human primates. Studying non-human primates, rather than = 5
to define these cognitive abilities as fully rational or bound- any other animal (or vegetal) species, is a way to reconcile =
edly so. The bottom-line, between orthodox and behavioural the two approaches we have just emphasized. On the one = &
economics, is that we have, in our psychological mindset hand, we can point to evolutionary continuities and disconti- = ©
and neurobiological fabric, the naturally selected resources nuities between cognitive abilities in human and non-human S
to adaptively respond to our economic environments. The primates in a way that would be less conclusive if we studied =~
fact that the human mind is endowed with a self-contained more phylogenetically distant animal species. On the other S
rational decision module (such as formally described by the hand, the use of decision-making (individual or collective, 3
axioms of decision-theory under uncertainty—see [4], and ie. for instance, game-theoretical) experimental paradigms to
for a recent discussion of the psychological relevance of axio- investigate the non-human primates’ abilities to instantiate
matic decision-theory, [5]) or with a less coherent panoply of economic behaviour—in a model-dependent sense, then—
biases and heuristics [6,7] does not make any substantial provides a set of analytical and empirical tools to examine
difference as long as the relationship between resources and the extent of these cognitive and behavioural continuities or
behaviour leads to utility maximization in the long run. The discontinuities and the factors that underlie them. A similar
assumption that primates have developed these abilities that conclusion can also be reached in a few studies or theoretical
make economic activities possible in principle is discussed in positions that are model-independent and yet can document
many of the articles collected in this special issue, as we or assume the existence of emerging economic behaviour
detail below. among human primates.
