bias in dominant macaques may help them maintain their tendencies of the actor monkeys. Based on previous studies
social status. Other internal factors such as satiety or effort showing evidence of reciprocity in Prisoner’s Dilemma
have also been shown to impact on prosocial behaviour games [19,43], we were expecting that forcing the partner to
[52,53] and inequity aversion [54] in primates. Future studies make selfish decisions would result in a decrease in the pro-
will aim at testing for similar effects in rhesus macaques. social bias of the actor. This was not, however, the case.

Our results showed that dominant monkeys could be Despite the auditory feedback used prior to rewarding the
more prosocial than subordinates, but data from human sub- partner, it might be possible that the actor did not pay atten-
jects suggest the opposite pattern, i.e. subjects with low social tion to the partner. It is possible that our protocol might have
socioecomic status are more prosocial than subjects with high been too simplistic to investigate how prosociality in one
socioeconomic status [24,25,55]. Because of the similar archi- individual is modulated by the frequency of prosociality in
tecture supporting social cognition in humans and macaques the partner. It is possible that a lack of change in the actor’s
[4], we hypothesize that this effect might reflect distinct behaviour may have reflected the fact that a single common
organization of human societies. Different social organization visual stimulus was used as the target before and after the
in primates has been related to differences in socio-cognitive task manipulations were instigated. Therefore, a different
tasks. While rhesus macaques are known to have a very hier- protocol varying the order in which the different targets are
archical social organization, Tonkean macaques have a more learned and with different targets for each experimental con-
tolerant social organization [30,56]. They have been shown to dition should be considered in future studies. Finally,
perform better than rhesus macaques in some social and cog- although kinship, social proximity between actor, and partner
nitive tasks [57]. In addition, while dominant humans might or ingroup versus outgroup effects have been shown to
be relatively less prosocial, this does not mean that they are impact on social behaviours in apes and rhesus monkeys
insensitive to social information. In fact, dominant humans [43,65], we did not observe within-subject variability in per-
who do not use aggression to assert their dominance have formance in regards to the two familiar partners tested.
been shown to rely more on social information, in compari- Using familiar and unfamiliar partners might have resulted
son to subordinate individuals, to guide their decisions in a in different prosocial bias.