you are fooled into thinking that the content of the hallucination The pre-theoretical concept of mental imagery (if there is
exists out in the world. This is an instance of offline perception such a thing) involves conscious images in the mind’s eye.
that is accompanied by the feeling of presence; and while However, the concept of mental imagery that emerges from
mental imagery is not usually accompanied by the feeling of neuroscience and psychology is the one according to which
presence (you are not normally fooled into thinking that the imagery is not necessarily conscious. In the third paper of the
apple you visualize is actually in front of you), it can be—for issue, Nanay [45] points out the theoretical and experimental
example, in cases of multimodal mental imagery [6]). advantages of treating mental imagery as not necessarily con-

Many of these distinctions cut across theoretical categories, scious—and this includes some of the imagery of at least some
giving us a way to find unexpected connections between aphantasia subjects.
dreaming, hallucinations, mind-wandering, mental imagery, Besides its relation to volition and consciousness, imagery
but also other forms of offline perception like attentional can also be analysed in terms of its relation to attention, and
templates [47]. in fact, the overlap between the two is commonly debated.

This way of thinking about the different varieties of stimu- What are the commonalities and differences between the sen-
lus-independent perception has important consequences for sory template that forms when people are pre-attending to an
major debates in many disciplines from philosophy, through upcoming stimulus and a mental image? In the fourth paper
psychology and neuroscience, to psychiatry. In psychology of the issue, Keogh & Pearson [47] present a study that uses a
and neuroscience, answering these questions could shed new special population, individuals with aphantasia, to uncover
light on the traditional antagonism between the perception- the relationship between mental imagery and an anticipatory
versus the imagery-like nature of dreams [14,48-52], bring use of attention—attentional templates.
together animal work on involuntary offline perception and According to an influential view, the lack of attentional gui-
human work on mental imagery [4], illuminate the conceptual dance [9,58] is a central factor of the mechanism that leads to
space around the notion of mind-wandering [7-10], and pro- the spontaneous occurrence of episodes of mind-wandering.
vide new insights into how mental imagery interacts with In fact, spontaneity is claimed to be the essential feature of