perception and modify them in such a way that they are of unconscious mental imagery. And, presumably, visual
applicable to unconscious mental imagery. agnosia patients’ visual imagery could only be unconscious.

Two of the most important arguments for unconscious per- The problem with this argument is that the assumption
ception come from unilateral neglect studies and priming that dorsal vision is through and through unconscious has
studies. I argue in §4 and §5, respectively, that in the case of been criticized both on empirical and on conceptual grounds = =
both unilateral neglect and priming, we can use the same (see for example [33,34,40]). For example, we now know that = 5
experimental paradigm to show that not only perception, but there are interactions between the two streams at various = =
also mental imagery, can be unconscious. points in perceptual processing (see for example [34,41,42]). >

Some have recently expressed general doubt concerning In the context of the present paper, this assumption is __
the standards for when we can be absolutely certain that especially problematic, given the overwhelming evidence = =
perception is unconscious (see [30] for a summary). These that visual agnosia patients’ visual imagery is not in fact 5!
sceptics would not go along with the claim that perception unconscious. Two different visual agnosia patients (DF, 5
can be unconscious. These worries are inherited by my argu- see [43], and C.K., see [44]) could manipulate and inspect =
ments. If the sceptics are right that the unilateral neglect their visual imagery in spite of having severely impaired  &
studies and the priming studies fail to establish that per- ventral vision. Given what we know about the interactions =
ception can be unconscious, then my arguments will not between the ventral and the dorsal stream, this should not >
establish that mental imagery can be unconscious either. come as a surprise and it also weakens any argument from s
My last empirical argument from aphantasia (in §6) is not dorsal vision concerning unconscious mental imagery. S
susceptible to these worries. In short, there have been serious problems with consider- BS

There is a third important and influential consideration for ing dorsal vision unconscious through and through, and the
unconscious perception, namely, from dorsal vision, which attempts to argue that mental imagery can be unconscious
could be modified to show that there is unconscious mental ima- with the help of the dorsal versus ventral distinction inherit