involuntary memory activation. Interestingly, voluntary mem- references to their previous visit. Interestingly, the 35 month
ories also benefitted from unique cues. However, compared old children had as frequent and as rich verbal and non-
with involuntary memories, they were considerably more fre- verbal reports of their previous visit as the 46 month old
quently retrieved in response to repeated sounds that had been children during spontaneous remembering. By contrast,
paired with repeated scenes during encoding, consistent with their performance on control questions requiring deliberate
a top-down, gist-based search [33]. retrieval of the event was reduced compared with the one of

Another important constraint for involuntary memory the older children.
activation is retention time. Staugaard & Berntsen [48] These comparative and developmental findings show that
provided experimental evidence that the frequency of spon- distinctive cues, or distinct constellations of cues, that overlap
taneously activated memories decreased systematically as a with the critical parts of a past event can trigger a memory of
function of the delay between encoding and the retrieval this event and thereby enable complex memory performance,
phase. The fact that the frequency of memory activation also in populations with less developed executive functions.
drops systematically with time since encoding is consistent Thus, although involuntary autobiographical memories arise
with findings from diary studies showing a marked domi- spontaneously, their occurrence appears highly constrained.

nance of involuntary memories referring to the person’s most
recent past and a systematic decline in their frequency with dis- 4 F . d dysf .
tance in time to the event (e.g. [5]), corresponding to the classic . Functions an ystu nctions

forgetting curve [49]. A puzzle left unresolved by more than 130 years of empirical
Thus, in the case of involuntary memories, the existing research on human memory is how memory works adap-
evidence suggests that multiple constraints work together tively [56]. Although no one would disagree that memory
to discriminate an event from alternatives, notably the pres- is important to our lives, surprisingly little is known about
ence of a distinct match between a contextual cue and a the specific mechanisms that allow memory to operate adap-