operate in ways that prevent the organism from being same time, there is robust evidence that involuntary memories S
flooded by irrelevant information. Involuntary memories in general involve stronger emotional impact and emotion
satisfy this requirement because their activation typically is regulation efforts at the time of retrieval than voluntary mem-
contingent upon the presence of a distinct situational cue ories [45,69,70,72]. Although this effect pertains to involuntary
(or combination of cues) that is specific for a particular past autobiographical memories in general and thus is not specific
event and therefore capable of discriminating this event to memories of trauma, it may help to explain the vivid reliv-
from alternatives. As reviewed earlier, features that have ing and ‘flashback’ quality associated with intrusive trauma
been part of many past events (such as my computer) have memories. Following del Palacio-Gonzalez & Berntsen [70],
little discriminatory strength and typically would be weak individuals with elevated internalizing symptoms
cues for involuntary memories. Because our environments may experience involuntary memories as extraordinarily
to a large extent are made up of such repetitive features, emotional and intrusive owing to two additive factors. One
we do not constantly have involuntary memories of past is well-documented emotional biases in such disorders. The
events running through our minds. other is the fact that involuntary memories in general is associ-
Fourth, memory should favour non-redundant infor- ated with greater emotional response upon retrieval. In short,
mation and thus should render memories for novel and/or intrusive trauma memories are a dysfunctional side-effect of
emotional events more salient than memories of mundane the normally functional involuntary memory mechanisms
events. Many studies have shown that emotional and novel when applied to extreme events in vulnerable populations.
events generally are more accessible in memory than other This view is a parsimonious alternative to theories explaining
events [63-65]. Consistent with naturalistic studies (e.g. intrusive trauma memories in terms of special memory
[42,66]), experimental studies show that memories with an mechanisms with a unique neural basis (e.g. [76,77]).

emotional content are more accessible for involuntary (and
voluntary) retrieval than memories with a neutral or less

emotional content (e.g. [67]), especially after a delay [34]. 5. Involuntary autobiographical memories and