
from an agent outside of myself’. Thus, weak and strong prior the cardiac signal [62].
effects can coexist; and failures of corollary discharge can, in In non-treatment-seeking voice hearers, the auditory cortex
theory, give rise to the strong prior expectation that a voice may also be excessively active, perhaps resulting from a top-
will be heard—as has been observed [49]. This proposed down ‘listening attitude’—an openness to hearing speech
account reconciles evidence for strong priors with impaired when there is none [63] and strong priors in the form of
corollary discharge signalling in schizophrenia, but also for imagination that allow for the generation of a vivid perceptual
mixed evidence regarding the influence of history and knowl- state. For example, there are non-treatment-seeking voice
edge on, for example, visual processing in schizophrenia, hearers who self-identify as clairaudient (that is, they perceive
arguing that the uncertainty created by weaker priors in their voices as a cherished meta-physical gift [5]). It appears
lower levels of a processing hierarchy are mitigated by stronger they engage in an imaginative practice that imposes strong
priors at higher levels [48,55-57]. priors on their perception [10], thereby overcoming the predic- = =
Now we turn again to the distinction between treatment tion error (engaged by the fact that no one is actually talking). = =
and non-treatment-seeking voice hearers and consider this This would imply that sensory attenuation, and by extension __
distinction in terms of the reconciliation between the strong efference copy signalling, is intact and perhaps even under — =
priors and weak corollary discharge account described volitional control in non-treatment-seeking voice hearers. =
above. Non-treatment-seeking voice hearers have a ready In considering the latter proposition regarding the voli- = =
explanatory framework and have spent time cultivating tional nature of sensory attenuation in non-treatment- =
volitional control over perception. In considering what this seeking voice hearers, we would highlight that two aspects = &
may tell us about the mechanisms of AVH in non-treatment- of efference copy signalling that highlight its selective influence =
seeking voice-hearers, we invoke the notion of imagination on sensory processing. First, there are situations, particularly S
within the predictive coding framework. A system that is in young animals, in which it is advantageous for self-
equipped with the machinery to generate a prediction of the generated movement not to generate an efference copy signal s
world in order to infer the causes of external stimuli can (or for that signal to be ignored) and for a self-generated move- Ss
thus enable perception of the external world, but also self- ment to be processed as if it were generated externally [64,65].