the cultural nature of their adaptations, humans can expand of spread and population growth to show that it must have

into new environments relatively easily, unlike other pri- been a density-dependent dispersal process, even if many of
mates. Indeed, this may often be easier than intensifying the details remain to be understood.
exploitation by means of increased labour inputs on the Finally, and more internal to their discipline, archaeolo-
lines of the Boserup model. gists have improved the resolution of their timescales

If Bocquet-Appel’s work on the demography of the origin through the use of techniques such as dendrochronology
and spread of farming was one source of a new interest in and the use of Bayesian methods incorporating contextual
population patterns (e.g. [18]), another has been a growing information to narrow the time intervals that can be derived
concern with the historical impact of past climate change on from radiocarbon dates. Thus, when your units of time last
human populations and its role in civilizational collapse for a millennium it is easy for populations to appear in equi-
(e.g. [19]). From a different direction altogether, the ongoing librium with their environments when this is not in fact the
twenty-year old debate about the relationship between popu- case (see below). =
lation size and the rate of cultural evolution has also had an All these different considerations have come together in, r=
important influence on research, represented here by several on the one hand, providing new questions whose answers Ss
papers. This debate arose for two main reasons. First, the depend on patterns in population history, and on the other, = =
mathematical formulation of cultural transmission processes new tools to address them, aided by a general explosion = 5!
by Cavalli-Sforza & Feldman [20] and Boyd & Richerson in the availability of archaeological data. A major battle = &
[21], which had been considered irrelevant by the processual within the discipline, especially in the last decade, has focused =
archaeologists of the 1960s to 1980s, showed that transmission on the reliability of one of those tools and datasets: the use of 3
processes could have a major impact on patterns of cultural summed radiocarbon date probabilities and related measures =
change and stability. Second, recognition of the piecemeal such as kernel density estimates as a proxy for changing rela- >
nature of cultural developments in the Late Pleistocene [22] tive population sizes through time. These have the advantage s
undermined existing cognitive-genetic explanations of the over more traditional measures such as site counts in that they s