
Figure 2. Results of PCAs of variance-stabilized RNA read counts of young and old individuals. Shown are the first (x-axis) and second (y-axis) PCs with variance
explained by each PC. Each point represents the expression profile of one individual/sample for 500 genes/transcripts. Filled shapes represent young and unfilled
shapes old individuals: (a) the termite C. secundus (photo: J. Korb), (6) the termite M. bellicosus (photo: J. Korb), (c) the bee E. viridissima (photo: A. C. Séguret),
(d) the bee A. mellifera capensis, pq: pseudo-queens (photo: V. Dietemann), (e) the ant P. punctata (head samples) (photo: A. Bernadou) and (f) the ant
T. rugatulus (fat body samples) (photo: R. Libbrecht). (Online version in colour.)

acid methyltransferase) and at least five genes associated with age (large positive loadings on PC2), we found several
chemical communication, including cuticular hydrocarbon genes related to immunity (one AMP, one GNBP1-2 precursor
(CHC) production as well as perception (electronic sup- and peptidoglycan recognition protein 1), reproductive physi-
plementary material, table S8). The association of Vg and ology (an mrjp precursor), JH biosynthesis (juvenile hormone
mrjp with workers appears surprising but might be explained acid methyltransferase) and three genes involved in chemical
by the fact that worker honeybees produce high amounts of communication. Genes associating with a young age (large
royal jelly as brood food. This is consistent with the notion negative loading on PC2) also included six genes related to
that Vg has become disassociated from reproduction in chemical communication.

the honeybee [71,72] and could also serve as an immune
effector [66]. Genes associated with pseudo-queens (i.e.

with large negative loadings on PC1) revealed a clear (iii) Ants
immune signature (including three AMP genes, GNBP1, For head transcriptomes of the clonal ant P. punctata, PC1
and two serpin-related genes) as well as two olfactory recep- clearly separated young from old individuals, with young

tor genes. Among the genes positively associated with old individuals showing significantly higher values than old
