tissues, carbonylation does change with the behavioural tran- While the latter is an important regulatory tissue in the abdo- = &
sition from hive to outdoor foraging, and though studies men, there may be other tissues included in the abdomen =
disagree on the direction of this effect, carbonylation has samples that are responsible for the strong age effects. On >
been found to be higher in foragers than nurses [26,27]. It is the other hand, we also found strong age effects in P. punctata
possible that, when different body parts are combined for heads; it is therefore unlikely that the interspecific differences s
analysis, the effects on protein carbonylation cancel each in age effects we detected are purely caused by differences in Ry
other out. In the termite C. secundus, old workers appear to the source of tissue used for the different species.
have higher carbonylation levels (figure 1d) but this result On the level of individual gene expression, there was little
is not statistically supported (table 3), which might be a con- consistency across species. Only one gene was strongly associ-
sequence of high variation in old workers combined with low ated with age in both species in which old and young
sample size. In the facultative eusocial bee E. viridissima, the individuals clearly differed in their gene expression: Prx3
average carbonylation levels of old and young workers was overexpressed in old P. punctata ants and E. viridissima
were virtually identical. This could be owing to the fact bees when compared to young individuals. But this was not
that workers of some species do not accumulate damage, per- the case in the other two species, the honeybee and the termite.
haps because they deal with oxidative stress as it occurs, e.g. Prx3 and Prx5 double knockdowns experience increased ROS
by neutralizing it with enzymatic antioxidants before it can activity and rapidly senescing phenotypes in Drosophila [62]
cause damage [14]. However, another reason in the case of because peroxiredoxins maintain the redox state of the cell
E. viridissima could be that old workers were not yet in a by eliminating superoxides. Their increased expression with
stage of their life during which they could have accumulated age in P. punctata and E. viridissima might be related to a dys-
damage. The definition of ‘old’ and ‘young’ across species is regulated cellular metabolism in old individuals, with more
vexed (for details, see electronic supplementary material, peroxides being produced by mitochondria, which become
Methods S1) because different species have different lifespans leakier with age as a consequence of protein carbonylation.
and age effects may manifest rapidly only after a threshold As protein carbonylation increases with age in P. punctata
age or behavioural transition, especially since age and but not in E. viridissima, the two species may differ in whether
task are often correlated (e.g. [25]). Furthermore, protein increased peroxide levels can be neutralized or where in the