from early stages. This phenomenon will be particularly
marked in the case of the sometimes neglected forms of sen-
sing we have discussed in this paper: gravisensing, flow


sensing, stretch sensing and proprioception. Sensitivity to the expansive spread of these patterns makes problematic any

consequences of action of this kind may also establish, simple distinction between ‘sensory’ and ‘motor’ areas in
through its shaping of sensitivity on a multicellular scale, an animal. These are action-directed patterns that can also
paths to new forms of exterosensing. These paths eventually be modulated by impinging external events.
yield forms of sensing in which reafference and exafference Across a similarly wide range of bilaterians, reafference is
combine tightly together, in actively moving animals, includ- addressed and mobilized with corollary discharge mechan-
ing lateral line sensing in fish and active vision as discussed isms. Reafference becomes not just a standing fact about the
by Gibson [63]. relations between sensing and acting, but something whose
Non-neural animals are restricted to limited coordination presence shapes neural architecture, which now includes cir-
and agency. Their bodies, while materially unified, are not cuitry that modulates the processing of sensory signals
tied together as selves in the same way that a neuralian according to what the animal is currently doing.
animal is. Despite this, their sensing will include reafference At present, corollary discharge mechanisms of this kind =
to some degree. Nervous systems then bring with them are not known in non-bilaterian animals. This has two poss) =>
new possibilities for integration. As well as the familiar ible explanations. First, it may be that the utility of these Ss
ways that a nervous system integrates control, the expansion mechanisms is tied to the breadth of a behavioural repertoire. — =:
of agency that nervous systems make possible can shape the When an action is produced continually or routinely (a swim- 5!
form of the body itself. Work in Hydra has revealed several ming motion, perhaps), its reafferent consequences can be 9 >
non-overlapping neural networks responsible for particular handled implicitly, without a neural circuit indicating =
behaviours [120]. In most cases, these networks are each which action is being produced at a particular time. Alterna- = &