
Rather than extensively testing for any possible structure (figure 5d). In the GOF condition of F, we find that the cells a
in the sensory map, we chose these AP signature measures undergo large fluctuations in Vegfr activations, which slow
in particular because changes in these would be straightfor- down patterning. This implicates filopodia in the generation
ward to interpret yet form a basis and approach easily of these patterns in the sensory map.
extended to other measures in the future. Shannon Entropy The large fluctuations in the GOF conditions of the F par-
(H) has a particularly useful property—it increases for ameter are biologically accurate and reflect the behaviour of
broader distributions. For example, a sharply peaked Gaus- endothelial cells when they are exposed to too much Vegf.
sian distribution will have a lower entropy than a uniform Fluctuations are explainable as a consequence of coupled
distribution over the same space. Although it does not strictly negative and positive feedback mechanisms. This is a well-
model coherence of values, we can use H as a proxy to describe studied outcome in angiogenesis and has been linked to the
the spatial spread of activating receptors on the cell surface malformation of vasculature in environments with high
(figure 5c). Crucially, this corresponds to the goal of the Vegf, such as those surrounding tumours [36]. The fact that
tissue as a whole to adopt an inhomogeneous pattern. As alterations in AP-related features of the model can bring the
the entropy of activations decreases, the two-cell system gets system into and out of this regime highlights the promise
pushed towards the state of one cell being a tip cell and of AP machinery as a potential therapeutic target [4].
receiving all of the sensory input and the other being a stalk A reduction in entropy indicates that the amplification of
cell and receiving none of it. Therefore, H may be interpreted differences in the sensed Vegf signal have begun. A reduction
as a quantitative readout of progress towards the goal of in spatial homogeneity of the driving sensory signals is
inhomogeneous cell state caused by unequal sensing. evident before the patterning decision at the level of Notch

We hypothesized that signatures of active perception signalling is completed (figure 5d), thus sensory map struc-
would be apparent in the time evolution of the measures turing is predicted to bias one cell to win before lateral
applied to the sensory map. For example, a reduction in the inhibition commits this choice. A sharper reduction in
entropy of the sensory map over time would mean the driving entropy corresponds to a faster patterning decision.