
of the annelid Platynereis dumerilii, flow sensors (MS cells) are Similar detailed measurements have not been carried out for
positioned at the most anterior tip of the head [50] (figure 3). planktonic animals, but many metazoan larvae are in the size
In the flow field around the anterior tip of Platynereis, there is range of Volvox (R~ 200 pm). If a planktonic organism has
a stagnation point, where the local velocity of the fluid is flow-sensory systems, these various hydrodynamic effects
zero. Such stagnation points are a general feature of the flow could thus dictate the optimal positioning of those sensors.
fields around self-propelled microswimmers (e.g. [53,54]). In This is one of many ways in which the physics of the body
Platynereis larvae, some of the MS cells are located at this stag- could feedback onto nervous system evolution.
nation point. This suggests that these cells will not be exposed A more advanced flow-sensing system is the lateral line in
to self-induced flow and may respond to external shear flow fish, tadpoles, lampreys [57] and possibly amphioxus [58].
more efficiently. The filtering-out of reafferent stimulation, in During swimming, the lateral line experiences reafferent
a way akin to corollary discharge, is in this case achieved by signals and the magnitude of these signals is tuned by mod-
the precise placement of sensors in a position defined by the ulatory efferent neurons. In tethered fish during fictive
hydrodynamics of the self-propelled body. swimming, the spontaneous spiking rate of the lateral line
The shape and even the buoyancy of the body of small afferent neurons decreases, in correlation with motoneuron
planktonic organisms can have various and non-intuitive activity [59].
hydrodynamic effects on the flow fields around a swimming The reafferent signal in swimming organisms also depends
body, the swimming trajectories and body orientation [55]. on the size of the body and size-related hydrodynamic effects.
Larvae of the sand dollar, an echinoderm, are transported At the scale of ciliary microswimmers including animal larvae
upwards or downwards in vertical flows depending on and other small plankton, viscous forces dominate over inertial
larval stage and morphology [56]. Detailed flow-field measure- forces (low Reynolds numbers). By contrast, larger animals like
ments around a swimming Volvox carteri—a colonial green fish operate at higher Reynolds numbers where inertia is more
alga—revealed that flows are dominated by a component important. A fish after a swim bout will glide in the water,

due to gravity and the negative buoyancy of the colony [54]. without motor activity. During gliding, reafferent signals can