outcomes. For example, for a trial of the use of ivermectin and intestinal helminths [77,78]. Ivermectin MDA for malaria
on the archipelago, using data collected from previous control would provide an opportunity for collaboration between
studies, we estimate there will be over 90% power to detect various disease control programmes, such as the Global Pro-
a difference of 5 versus 10% malaria prevalence in the gramme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GPELF) and the
intervention and control arms, respectively. Onchocerciasis Elimination Program of the Americas (OEPA).
Stratified randomization is often used in CRTs to increase Ivermectin is an attractive option for the control of
power [23]. Clusters that are similar in some way are grouped malaria, as it kills mosquitoes that feed on individuals who
into strata. Analysis is carried out within strata, and the simi- have been administered an appropriate dose, and so targets
larity of clusters within each stratum reduces between-cluster mosquitoes regardless of whether they feed indoors or out-
variation and, hence, increases power. Care must be taken doors, during the day or at night [79]. Therefore, it can be
when deciding which variable(s) are used for stratification. If used as a tool to complement ITNs and IRS. Sub-lethal effects
clusters are stratified on the basis of variables that are not of ivermectin on mosquitoes include reductions in fecundity
associated with the study endpoint, then power may in fact and egg hatch rate [80,81], and it has also been shown to
be reduced. Which variables are strong predictors of endpoints have a sporontocidal effect against Plasmodium vivax in host
will be specific to the disease in question; for VBDs, ecological Anopheles [82]. This means that there can be community-
variables related to the mosquito’s life cycle may be appropri- wide effects of MDA campaigns, and modelling predictions
ate. A common stratification variable that is appropriate in a suggest that ivermectin could be a valuable addition to
wide variety of circumstances is a cluster-level baseline malaria control in areas with seasonally persistent high
measure of disease prevalence of incidence. malaria transmission, where existing interventions have
In the Bijagés archipelago, should more than 18 clusters, failed to provide sufficient protection, or in areas that are
representing the number of inhabited islands, be needed in approaching elimination [83].
a CRT, islands must be split wherever possible following The Bijagés archipelago has been targeted for an ivermectin
the above considerations. For example, the island of Caravela campaign owing to its highly seasonal and stable malaria
has a population numbering more than 4200 people. There transmission. It also is co-endemic for malaria and neglected
are population centres on the north, south and western tropical diseases such as LE, soil-transmitted helminths and