nin, (8) dopamine, (9) noradrenaline, (10) adrenaline, (11) acetylcholine in some tissues might be owing to bacterial
octopamine, (12) tyramine, (13) histamine, (14) acetylcholine, contamination. In fact, some bacteria names are dedicated to
(15) taurine, (16) protons, (17) ATP, (18) nitric oxide (NO), the high synthesis of acetylcholine—Bacillus acetylcholini; these
(19) carbon monoxide (CO) and (20) H2S. The list might incor- and related bacteria acetylate choline and present in fermented
porate short lipids (derivatives of arachidonic acid, acting sauerkraut and silos [89]. The presence and usage of transmit-
on cannabinoid receptors), trace amines, purines such as ters in particular animals might reflect enzymatic activities of
adenosine, and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, etc. symbionts and associated microbiota. Finally, the presence of

Considering that these intercellular chemical messengers a given chemical does not provide direct evidence for its trans-
can also be produced and operate as signal molecules in non- mitter function, which should be experimentally proved by
neuronal cells, the correct term would be transmitter. The term careful functional studies.
neurotransmitter refers to signal molecules with a confirmed The entire scope of the comparative diversity of neurotrans-
neuronal release. In fact, 95% of the serotonin in our body is not mitters, especially in minor phyla, is unknown. A prevailing
located in neurons; it is produced in the intestine where it has view is that most, if not all, (neuro)transmitters should be the
been increasingly recognized for its hormonal, autocrine and same in different animal lineages. This is not the case. Although
paracrine actions [123] (e.g. enterochromaffin cells, enterocytes, there are very limited data dealing with direct microchemical
platelets). Furthermore, non-neuronal serotonin can signifi- analyses of the transmitter candidates in representatives of
cantly contribute to such neuronal functions as learning and early branched metazoan lineages, the distribution of low mol-
memory [124]. This note is very important for comparative ecular weight transmitters is not uniform across basal Metazoa
studies. There is widespread usage of the words ‘neurotrans- (figure 5). Both neuropeptides and low molecular weight trans-
mitters’ or ‘neuropeptides’ by describing signal molecules in mitters show a noticeable degree of lineage-specific adaptations.

organisms without neural systems and synapses (e.g. for pri-
marily nerveless placozoans or sponges). Similarly, the
presence of a given molecule (or a relevant synthetic enzyme) 4, Why are there so many transmitters? A case