
grandparental investment, which suggests that input from 6. Conclusion
grandparents may not always result in child outcomes that Humans are a social species, and our success, our ability to
would be approved of by a public health professional. But thrive in almost all environments across the globe, is likely
even if older women’s advice does contradict that of public related to our cooperative nature [108]. Hrdy [1,109] suggests
health professionals, they are typically very influential in that our strategy of cooperative reproduction may even have
decisions around maternal and child health, which suggests led to cooperation in other spheres and affected our cognitive
it is even more important to incorporate older women into evolution, thereby underpinning our success as a species. Con-
public health interventions [31]. The positive results in the temporary Western society seems in danger of forgetting this,
handful of studies that have incorporated grandmothers and however, and perhaps of encouraging such memory loss in
older women in public health initiatives suggest this would other contexts. Or at least, there is significant idealization of
be a fruitful avenue for improving maternal and child health the isolated nuclear family as the ‘traditional’ family in the
[93-96], and mental health (Dixon Chibanda’s ‘Friendship West, even when mothers do in fact receive support with
Bench’ is perhaps the best known example of a successful childcare. It may be the rigid gender roles and stereotypes
intervention employing ‘grandmothers’ [97,98]). that are associated with this idealization of the nuclear
Ideologies around the family and ‘traditional’ gender roles family that are particularly problematic. Gender roles that

feed into political ideologies that promote hierarchies of male expect mothers to be very largely responsible for childcare


and men to be able to support families without help may lead considerable diversity may be necessary in order for women,
to beliefs about what the household division of labour and men and children to thrive.

parenting strategies ‘should’ be and discourage mothers and
