definition of depression applied in this analysis includes Given that pregnancy is for many women a time of increased Ss
depression of any severity. Although we consider this a contact with health services, the perinatal period offers a =
strength, it means that comparisons with other studies— valuable opportunity to assess women’s support networks — =
3a
many of which focus exclusively on severe depression— and provide interventions that can assist in helping these ©
must be made with caution. A history of depression was women better develop and nurture social networks. =
assessed through self-report and may have been subject to 5
bias. Formal diagnoses of mental disorders are rare in this set- Ethics. Ethics approval was granted by the University of Oxford Tropi- =
ting where mental health services are scarce, and we had no cal Research Ethics Committee (OxTREC 28-15), the Mahidol = 4

It ti £ establishine d ion histories. Hi University Faculty of Tropical Medicine Ethics Committee (TMEC
alternative means Of estal 1s Ing | epression . ustories, FLOW- 15-045) and the Tak Border Community Advisory Board, a commit- ma)
ever, the fact that depression history remained correlated tee of community representatives on the Thai-Myanmar border [42]. =
with depression in the final model for both migrants and refu- Data accessibility. The dataset generated for this study is not publicly 3
gees gives confidence in the utility of this measure. The use of available due to the sensitive nature of the information and the vul- >
single-item measures for perceived and partner support may nerable legal status of the participants. Data can, therefore, only be =
have limited response variability. The prevalence of IPV was accessed by submission of a request to the Data Access Committee S
1 d h d fi ted the t burden d at Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit (MORU), Bang- i
‘Ow and we may have underestimate . ¢ true burden cue kok, Thailand. The data sharing policy is available at http://www. w
to the lack of detailed assessment. Perinatal depression was tropmedres.ac/data-sharing. Send requests to Dr Phaik Yeong 3
a composite measure of depression experienced any time Cheah (phaikyeong@tropmedres.ac). &
during the perinatal period. The exposure measured did not Authors’ contributions. G.E, E.P., M.F., R.F. and R.M. conceptualized the S&S
Ss
precede the outcome and our data, therefore, cannot discern study and developed the protocol. G.E, S.N.. M.M.O.,, M.P. and SS
