that contain both step and biological children within a beginning at the age of five). This ‘exposure alignment’ is the
given family and then apply Cox regressions stratified by basis of the sample used to conduct the final set of analyses.
families and additionally adjusted for sex, birth year, parental We find that stepchildren with either a stepmother (HR =
LDS status, number of full siblings, number of half-siblings 0.20, Cl=0.04, 1.08; n=3,354; electronic supplementary
and number of stepsiblings. We find that, within the same material, table 55) or stepfather (HR=0.27, CI=0.01, 9.12;
family, stepchildren have significantly lower rates of mor- n= 980; electronic supplementary material, table S6) experi-
tality than their half-siblings. The protective effects of being ence no elevated risk of mortality. Further, when we pool
a stepchild are comparable whether it was the mother across step-parent type, we find their presence to be protec-
(hazard ratio (HR) =0.29, confidence interval (CI) = 0.24, tive for stepchild survival (HR =0.22, CI=0.05, 0.95; n=
0.35) or the father (HR = 0.25, CI=0.18, 0.36) who was the 4,334; electronic supplementary material, table S7). In figure 1,
surviving parent (see the electronic supplementary material, we display the results of this analysis by way of a survival
table S4 for a full model summary). As a note, one of the arte- curve showing that stepchildren have better survival
factual aspects of this specification is that the sequence of the than biological children (after exposure alignment). In other
first marriage, birth, parental death, remarriage and new words, step-parents afford a survival advantage rather
birth means that the children from the first marriage are than a disadvantage to the stepchildren, an association not
going to be older, by definition, than the children born consistent with the Cinderella Effect.

from the newly formed (second) marriage at the time of the
birth of the new half-siblings. As we constructed the file,
we required that the children born from the first marriage, . .
who later became stepchildren, had to survive long enough 4. Discussion

to be present when children from a second marriage were Applying predictions from the Cinderella Effect literature, we
born so that parents were faced with resource allocation targeted analyses on the survival of children in response to
