
Within the varied palette of the historical humanities, these = &

(b) The cultural causes of cultural change; time-scales models for describing cultural history in systemically evolving =
terms and attempting to formulate a ‘dynamics of cultural his- >!
and models tory’,” are well established. Their validation does not proceed s
There is, then, a robustly established orientation in the huma- by way of a formalized experimental procedure where tests are Ss
nities to use cultural causes in order to explain cultural effects: set up to verify or falsify working hypotheses; as I have hinted, BS
what happens in human culture is often caused by the ways in the reproducibility of experiments cannot apply in historical
which humans choose to organize their lives, reflecting, in the research since the past, by definition, is not reproducible.
process, on their lives and on its organization. Culture is often The Popperian criterion of falsifiability is met in two other
caused by other forms of culture; and the humanities are ways. Any historical analysis before being put to the forum
aware of themselves as also a form of culture (as in fact all of scholarly opinion needs to be rigorously and source-criti-
forms of science are). The humanities as a scientific discipline cally tested against the available data (documentation,
are an academically organized way of human self-reflection: existing primary and secondary literature); and its acceptance
human culture looking at human culture. (Hence August is always provisional, pending the possible adduction of con-
Boeckh’s definition of philology as Die Erkenntnis des Erkann- tradictory data from different sources.” For this reason,
ten, ‘the understanding of understanding’ [26]). The extent of evolutionary modelling in the historical sciences has remained
available cultural data in standard practice covers the cultu- tentative and implicit, a matter of ginger consensus rather than
rally productive, historically documented period of literate, explicit assertion, and often more stringently formulated by
self-representing societies, roughly 3000 BCE to the present, critics than by proponents. Even so, a few consensual insights
with an archaeological run-up period extending as far back from the historical humanities may be summarized as follows,
as the beginning of the Holocene. Within this time-frame, cul- and these may well meet with nods of recognition from evol-
ture as an evolving praxis tends to be studied over periods ution researchers in the natural sciences.
