content-dependent. The mode of transmission thus can (compared to culture at least).
change at any time, not just from one cultural domain to another To conclude: if there are processes that differ so much
(e.g. from religion to fashion) but also for a particular cultural in temporal order as do biological and cultural inheritance,
trait (e.g. how potatoes are prepared; how milk is used). The then they should be regarded as separate and independent
actual transmission dynamic, in the end, depends on lots of con- in that sense.

textual variables, since these influence the agent in the choice
that determines whether transmission will be vertical, horizon-

tal, or oblique, whether novelty comes easily, and also whether 4. The relationsh ips between the three
the transmission is characterized by high fidelity.

The fact that biologically inherited resources are bound to a inde pen dencies
mostly vertical mode of transmission is one of the reasons why Since the lack of temporal order in culture is to a great extent, if
the biological channel is regarded as characterized by, on aver- not completely, derivable from the importance of choices of
age, higher stability. Once genetic factors (e.g. the 13910*T allele individual agents, and since quick changes will often be
that explains lactose tolerance in European populations) are ina based on non-vertical modes of inheritance, the lack of
genetic lineage, there is nothing in the ‘mechanics’ of the chan- temporal order grounds and facilitates (i) the take-off auton-
nel that prevents them from staying there, virtually forever. omy, as well as (ii) near-decomposability. In other words,
(That there can be mutations and that they can be selected both (i) the take-off autonomy and (ii) near-decomposability
against is another matter.) The addition ‘on average’ is certainly stem from culture being able to change more quickly
important since epigenetic inheritance is rather unstable and (if necessary) by going horizontal or oblique, which equals
there is lateral gene transfer. The important difference is, as (iii) the absence of a pre-set temporal order. If necessary,
mentioned, one of proportions. In biological inheritance (at we choose to diverge from what we learned from parents
least for animals) the vertical mode dominates and in culture (neither drinking milk, nor making cheese) and adopt new