not) that others are too reliant on it, making it less cognitive module to learn from others. We fully agree with this = 5
useful. But in most of the studies we reviewed the oppo- stance, with one subtle difference. Individual and social infor- = =
site holds true: most participants rely too little on social mation may be processed by the same mechanisms, but not >
information, not too much. on an equal footing. The information that we get on our own Ss

engages our attention differently; it is more tractable and trace- = =
able than information that comes to us filtered through others’ = =

5. Conclusion minds. Because it is acquired independently, it is also of more =
There is little doubt that our species relies a great deal on use to others than second-hand information. ~=
social information, and that cultural transmission would be Cultural evolution, alongside social psychology and =
impossible if we did not use it [7,78,88]. This makes the experimental economics, has done much to document and eo]
well-known phenomenon of egocentric discounting all the explore the fact that socially acquired information may be S
more puzzling. This paper has documented it across five given less weight than equivalent individual information. ~~
different experimental paradigms (going beyond standard No extant theory predicts this phenomenon in all its dimen- Ss
cases of egocentric discounting in the advice-taking litera- sions or in a straightforward way. An exciting next step aI
ture). Several independent research traditions uncovered could consist in drawing the cultural consequences of our
different aspects of the same phenomenon, a phenomenon reluctance to incorporate information: how it impacted the

that none of them had predicted. Combining the results of evolution of social learning in our evolutionary past, and

a diverse range of tasks allows for a better assessment of the diffusion of culture throughout our history.

the most common explanations. Our review highlights the
difficulty of explaining away egocentric discounting with