Early hominins would also have possessed structural and For early hominins, learned knowledge and skills were
attentional social learning biases. A structural bias is a ten- crucial for survival, and, with the extension of childhood,
dency to learn from some models rather than others owing juveniles had more opportunity to acquire them vertically, pri-
to social structure and geography [48-50]. Juveniles would marily from their mothers [61]. Consequently, socially learned
have learned most from their mothers, and to a lesser extent knowledge and skills began to spread through populations for
from other members of their immediate residential group, the simple reason that their bearers tended to have greater
simply because they spent more time in close proximity to reproductive fitness. Individuals who learned, for example, a
these agents than to others. An attentional bias is a tendency more effective foraging technique from their mothers had
to learn from some models rather than others because they better nutrition and more viable offspring and passed the tech-
are particularly attention-grabbing [30,51]. These attention- nique on to each of those descendants. CS1 of knowledge and
grabbing actors or actions might be intrinsically salient skills became increasingly powerful and important.

(large, noisy, pungent) [52], close to salient rewards (e.g. This does not mean that CS1 is uniquely human. In fact,
close to food [53,54]) or previously associated with reward CS1 appears to be occurring now among bottlenose dolphins.
(e.g. their actions tend to produce or release food [55]). Some wild dolphins in Shark Bay, Western Australia, use

Structural and attentional biases, like the social learning marine sponges, worn on their closed rostrum (beak), to
they modulate, are based on evolutionarily ancient, probe the sea floor for food [62]. There is evidence that this
domain-general cognitive mechanisms [56,57]. The social foraging technique is transmitted vertically through social
learning biases found in fish, birds and small mammals learning from mothers to their female offspring [12], and
48,58] can be explained by attentional processes that bias that mothers who forage in this way have more offspring
social learning in the same way as asocial learning, and than mothers who do not [63]. If it is confirmed that the tech-
that evolved long before hominins appeared on the scene nique is spreading by selection on cultural variation, these
57]. Nonetheless, we should not underestimate the power dolphins could be an excellent model system for studying
of attentional biases. They can produce patterns that, at the the very earliest stages of hominin cultural evolution.