decide on the rules. Collective outcomes are thought to be matched to this framework. The rules aspect connects well
better when users of the resource are able to decide on the with the generation of variation and inheritance parts of evol-
tules that affect them. This helps ensure that pay-offs are utionary thinking. Institutional rules are established and
well-structured and provide incentives for individuals to con- modified through social processes, and knowledge about
tinue cooperative behaviour, rather than being skewed or rules is transmitted by social learning and inherited within
misaligned if others set the rules. The design principles populations over intergenerational periods of time [1]. Inno-
were developed for understanding the specific context of col- vations can occur in institutional rules and these rules can
lective management of natural resources and different be consciously or unconsciously adjusted or modified. As
features and mechanisms may be more important in other we discuss below, there are various ways in which this
ecological or social contexts. However it seems likely that might occur in human societies, often involving some form
monitoring, sanctioning and dispute resolution are likely to of institutional mechanism itself (i.e. there are rules about
occur in wide range of situations [22]. The design principle how rules are made—what can be thought of as a ‘consti-
relating collective choice arrangement also appears to match tutional’ process [30,31]). This connects to the fact that
well to arguments made in economics that institutions institutions may be interrelated, and may also interact with,
which enable the majority of the population to take part in or rely on, other non-institutional aspects of culture which
economic and political decisions (‘inclusive’ institutions such connects to the idea of institutions-as-equilibria [32]. This
as democratic voting, the rule of law) do better in terms of means the effectiveness of a particular institutional rule can
development, than societies that have more ‘extractive’ insti- play out very differently in different social or environmental
tutions, where a limited number of elites do well at the contexts, which leads to the idea that there can be coevolution
expense of the majority of the population [4]. between different institutions, or between institutions and
Humans have created societies that are organized, con- other aspects of culture [1].
trolled or coordinated on a scale not seen in other species. This coevolutionary /institutions-as-equilibria perspective
Common mechanisms proposed to explain cooperation in can have a number of implications for understanding why
biological systems and how it has come to evolve, such as societies possess the institutions that they do. Institutional
kin selection [23] or classical forms of direct reciprocity arrangements may not be straightforward to implement