cultural traits? 7 ; ; ; ; ~
If cultural traits are highly facultative, and change over very (ii) Does the granularity at which cultural traits are defined affect
short periods of time, they may not be amenable to phyloge- the inferred rate of change?
netic reconstructions of their evolutionary history because Any measured rate of trait replacement depends on the
there is simply too much variation at the tips of the trees. The granularity of trait measurement and categorization. This is
signature of history might be weak compared to the strength particularly likely to be a problem for cultural traits, which
of current selection pressures [35,36]. Indeed, simulations are often reported as categorical states (such as bridewealth,
show that high rates of evolutionary change have a strong dowry, brideservice and no payments), states that are in
depressive impact on measures of phylogenetic signal when many instances further combined into binary categories to
determined through the fit of such traits onto an indepen- retain statistical power for analysis [48]. Transition rates may
dently determined tree (the ‘true’ tree, see [33]). Estimating reflect such granularity: for example, a shift from matrilocality
highly facultative/ flexible traits on an independently derived to non-matrilocality could take longer than a shift to multilocal-
tree risks obscuring the possibility that there were in fact mul- ity, which encompasses matrilocality (see §2b(iii)). The
tiple undetectable changes on each branch. A phylogenetic difficulty of inferring transition rates is further compounded
approach cannot accurately reconstruct internal nodes if if the rate differs in different parts of the tree [49] or if it is
these do not retain a signal about the past [37] and might higher for some transitions than for others [50]. Finally, studies
instead present a regression to the mean with larger changes of contemporary cultural transitions, such as how bridewealth
earlier in the tree where deeper branches merge. payments shift into effective dowry [51,52] or how matrifocal
The problem of highly facultative traits is well-illustrated institutions emerge and wither [53,54], can throw light on the
in a recent innovative study linking archaeological and stability and/or changeability of these specific traits, but
contemporary ethnographic data to examine the association generalization to other contexts remains problematic.
between dwelling size and post-marital residence [38]. In short, we still grapple with deriving a priori hypotheses
By plotting dwelling size and residence rules onto a time- for which cultural domains are most conserved as well as
calibrated global super-tree of human populations, the authors with developing sound methods for determining how rapidly
show that changes in house size precede changes in residence they change. While the ancestral relationships among variants