
many of the dilemmas and tradeoffs outlined here— In sum, we are not arguing against phylogenetic studies

specifically with respect to how to identify which sample to of cultural traits. Rather, we hope our overview and our simu-
use, and how to measure the trait of interest. (ii) Investigators lation will encourage researchers to consider persistent perils
should consider carefully whether the tree chosen to rep- inherent in answering questions about the history of a cul-
resent population histories reflects a time scale appropriate tural trait. While we recognize the importance of the
to the social learning and transmission processes that gener- cultural evolutionary goal of putting ‘pre-history back into
ated the data being evaluated by the comparative method. anthropology’ [11, p. 406], we suspect more caution is still
Ideally, the tree will reflect diverse sources of data across needed. Evidence for our position lies in the increasingly con-
history, linguistics, genetics and archaeology (see also [41]). tradictory findings that are emerging in the literature
(iii) Investigators should consider carefully how the trait of regarding ancestral states, sequence of changes and adaptive
interest is transmitted, using ethnographic or historical value. The very fact that the field has grown enough to pro-
materials where available, taking care to differentiate mech- duce discrepant findings is positive and generates progress.
anisms of transmission for between and within populations; Discrepancies may well reflect lineage, region or scale-
this will inform about the potential rate of change, and specific effects, as well as differences in the definition or
whether the horizontal transmission is likely to be prevalent classification of traits which, with further research, will only
(see also [88]). (iv) Investigators should explore how missing increase our understanding of the drivers of cultural diver-
data, horizontal transmission and/or differential lineage sity, but we do need to keep in mind that methodological
extinction might influence their inferences for their particular problems might also be entailed.

sample (see our code: https: //github.com/dieterlukas /Cul-

turalMacroevolution_Simulation). Investigators may have
additional information about the transmission of the cultural