These features articulate important differences between multiple mating partners lead to faster oviposition and mul-
spiders and other arthropods, and warrant special consider- tiple male ejaculates lead to higher hatching success [19].
ation within the current sperm competition paradigm. For Finally, polyandry may not necessarily be adaptive and
instance, paired sperm storage organs linked to separate females may mate multiply owing to sexual conflict, with
copulatory ducts in entelegyne spermathecal types implies males manipulating female re-mating behaviour (e.g. Stego-
that sperm of different males may not necessarily mix in sto- dyphus lineatus [20,21]).
rage unless the same copulatory opening is used by multiple Accurate estimates of female mating rates not only ease
males. Fertilization outcomes may therefore differ dramati- interpretations on the adaptive value of polyandry, but
cally based on whether sperm from the storage site is address the evolutionary consequences of sperm competition,
activated and released differentially, with females potentially with implications for male mating strategies and patterns of
playing an active role in the decapsulation and activation sperm use. Unfortunately, the paucity of data available for
of sperm (see references in [6]). Another important feature spiders does not allow any general patterns to be drawn. In
is the indirect mode of insemination that separates the fact, only a handful of studies have investigated female
amount of sperm available at copulation from the production mating frequencies in natural populations using laborious

site. Thus, the insemination ability of a male depends not field observations of marked animals [22-25] or paternity


assessment from cocoons using allozyme [26-30] or microsa- are formed from broken male genitalia left inside the

tellite [31] markers. The latter might provide an female genital opening, which may come at the expense of
underestimate of the degree of polyandry, given that females the male’s future reproduction. Depending on the species,
can employ post-copulatory choice to use sperm from either the entire pedipalp or the tip of the intromittent
particular males, reducing the number of sires. organ are detached [66], rendering the pedipalp dysfunc-
Evidence for polyandry comes instead from experimental tional after a single use [5]. One-shot genitalia that limit