
of a MSD gene does not necessarily imply the loss of the pree S&S

3. Lesson 1 from sdY: how can sex chromosomes vious sex chromosome as has been postulated in a recent
alternative to the ‘high turnover’ theory [86]. Such an intra-

stay ‘young’ and escape from degeneration? chromosomal MSD gene switch, by shifting the sex determi-
New sex chromosomes can evolve from autosomes through nation locus far away from its initial location, would
the acquisition of new sex-determining loci that can emerge probably lead to the same rejuvenating effect as in the classi-
through two major processes often referred to as allelic diver- cal ‘high turnover’ model, at least for highly homomorphic
sification and duplication [1,2,77]. The allelic diversification sex chromosomes as have been observed for instance in
process involves the fixation of an allelic variant conferring some Takifugu species [87]. The second theory, named the
a new sex-determining function to a gene previously located ‘fountain of youth’, is based on the fact that many species
on an autosome. This allelic variant may become fixed in the exhibit sex-specific patterns of recombination with one
population. As a heritable trait in the heterogametic sex this phenotypic sex having a higher recombination rate than the
will result in the emergence of a new (proto-) sex chromo- other, a notion known as heterochiasmy. The ‘fountain of
some from an ancestral autosomal pair. The duplication/ youth’ model then postulates that recombination of sex
insertion process was first described in the medaka, chromosomes will be favoured in occasional sex-reversed
O. latipes and involves the duplication of an autosomal XY females in species having a higher female recombination
gene (i.e. dmrtl in O. latipes) that will evolve a new sex-deter- rate and that this will provide opportunities to recombine the
mining function after its insertion (i.e. dmrt1bY in O. latipes) at Y heterogametic chromosome, allowing a regular purge of its
a genomic location that will become the new heterogametic deleterious mutations [88]. Interestingly, sdY, by being con-
sex chromosome [14]. Following the birth of a new sex-deter- tained in a transposable cassette, or a mobile sex locus, has
mining locus, sex chromosomes can evolve through an the ability to continuously reshuffle the sex chromosomes
extension of the non-recombining region that is initially and thus to prevent their decay. This strategy may provide