Figure 5. Numbers and distributions of the MLH1 foci on two largest chromosomes of 5. variabilis and 5. malachiticus. The x-axis shows the positions of MLH1 foci
along the SCs in relation to the centromere (black circle). One scale division represents a segment of the average length of each SC equal to 1 ym. The y-axis shows
the proportion of MLH1 foci in each interval. Different colours show bivalents with different MLH1 numbers, from 1 to 4.

experienced more fusions than the autosomes. Both FISH and systems actually represent translocations onto non-recombin-
crossover mapping data show the presence of two distal ing parts, when they are located terminally and are not
pseudoautosomal regions, and a lack of homology between flanked by pseudoautosomal regions. Otherwise, if there is a
the X and Y chromosomes in the medial regions. This indi- recombining segment between the sex-determining locus and
cates that the autosomal fragments translocated onto the the point of fusion, the fused autosomal segment can be trans-
sex chromosomes from both sides. However, our methods ferred to another sex chromosome by crossing over, and a
do not allow the determination of the relative positions of stable multiple sex chromosome complex cannot be formed.

each syntenic block inside the sex chromosomes. The fact Of the fusions which we identified in the sex chromosomes
that the non-recombining segment is flanked by two pseu- of S. malachiticus, several appear to be homoplasies, as they
doautosomal regions explains why novel translocations did appear independently in different squamate lineages. Namely,
not form a multiple sex chromosome system in this case. the combination of the homologues of ACAX + ACA11 occur

This may indicate that most multiple sex chromosome independently in Ctenonotus (Dactyloidae, Pleurodonta,


Iguania) [24,25] and in the Z chromosome of Paroedura (Gekko- crossover patterns depend more on the phylogenetic position

nidae) [45]; the combination of the homologues of ACAX + of the species than on the structure of its karyotype. However,
ACA18 occur in Norops (Dactyloidae, Pleurodonta, Iguania) for all these four species, we studied only the recombination
[23] and the combination of the homologues of ACA11 + patterns in males. Studying the recombination patterns in