The only conclusion that can be made from current determination trigger, but the new determiner does not
knowledge is a non-intuitive statement: the whole evolution- change the original role of the ancestral gene. This implies
ary process selects a replaceable sex-determining trigger. One a coevolution of the downstream network and the sex-deter-
can argue that such an unstable system would not last long mination trigger. The sdY gene in salmonids (irf9) is perhaps
and that evolution would stabilize the sex-determination pro- the only known example where the determiner arose outside
cess, locking the downstream network to the master trigger of the classic sex-related genes, since, to date, no connection
(genetic or environmental), which is for instance the case in between irf9 and gonad differentiation has been shown.
therian mammals, birds and some reptiles [81]. However, it Fish of the genus Oryzias provide powerful information to
can be difficult to understand the advantage of a system understand the evolution of a new upstream regulator. The
that selects a trigger that can be so easily replaced, as is the dmrt1bY gene is the sex-determining gene of O. latipes and
case in fish. One answer may be that the replacement of the O. curvinotus, and gsdf* is the male-determiner in O. luzonen-
master may allow the trigger to get better. Another answer sis [40,82]. Despite sharing dmrt1bY, O. curvinotus is
may come from the fact that the master trigger is not really phylogenetically closer to O. luzonesis than to O. latipes.
a ‘master’ in the sense that it acts at the very start or ‘top’ Extensive studies on dmrt1bY from O. latipes showed that
of the gonadal development process. As already mentioned, transposable elements inserted in the promoter of this gene
the bipotential gonad expresses the complete machinery to brought cis-regulatory elements which led to expression

respond to a male or female sex-promoting signal, and the within the sex-determination window [83]. In this species,


<> — «>

temperature LA 7

2