tral sex chromosomes with an autosome leading to multiple To test whether male heterogamety is strictly linked to
neo-sex chromosomes in the common ancestor of L. burtonis dosage balance, we summarized the current state of knowl-
and L. jicari) [40]. It seems that the differentiated XX/XY sex edge concerning dosage balance across animals (table 1).
chromosomes in pygopodids are ancient and can be dated to Dosage balance was studied in 22 lineages representing
the last common ancestor of living pygopodids, i.e. to at equal numbers of putative independent origins of sex
least 32-50 Myr [54]. As female heterogamety is known in chromosomes. In contrast to the classical models for the evol-
the sister group to pygopodids, the family Carphodactylidae ution of gene dose regulatory mechanisms, lineages with
[55], the XX/XY sex chromosomes in pygopodids might be male heterogamety are not significantly more likely to pos-
as old as 55 to 78 Myr, the estimated time when these two sess dosage balance between sexes in the expression of
families split [54,56,57]. The pygopodid sex chromosomes genes linked to sex chromosomes than lineages with female
are homologous to chromosome 4q of the chicken and the heterogamety (Fisher’s exact test: p=0.074). Moreover, the
human chromosome 4. It seems that sex chromosomes in the ratio can even be biased in favour of the tested hypothesis;
pygopodid ancestor evolved independently from sex chromo- e.g. nematodes in fact do not represent the difference in
somes of other amniotes, as no amniote group studied to date expression between males and females, but between males
with known partial gene content of sex chromosomes and hermaphrodites [60,61]. Also, we grouped species
shares sex-linked gene content with pygopodids [28], including according to putative independent evolution of their sex
three other gekkotan lineages: Phyllodactylus wirshingi (its ZZ/ chromosomes based on sex-linked gene content, but owing
ZW chromosomes are syntenic with chicken Z; GGAZ), Gekko to gaps in knowledge we were not able to separate indepen-
hokouensis (GGAZ as well, but likely independently derived), dent origins of gene dose regulatory mechanisms. This is
and the geckos of the genus Paroedura (GGA4p and GGA15) especially important in insects, which are overrepresented
[28,58,59]. It should be noted that previously reported synteny in the studies on gene dose regulatory mechanisms
of amniote sex chromosomes with chromosome GGA4 in lacer- (table 1). Most insect lineages have male heterogamety and
tid lizards, geckos of the genus Paroedura, and therian mammals the origin of an epigenetic mechanism ensuring dosage bal-
involved the small arm (GGA4p) not the larger arm (GGA4q) of ance of X-linked genes could be ancient and independently
the fourth chicken chromosome. co-opted for regulation of expression of sex-linked genes