environmental perturbations to epigenetic changes by the [60]. In this regard, it has been argued that epigenetically
analysis of molecules and signalling pathways; (ii) finding func- mediated alterations in sex ratios could become an epigenetic
tional consequences of epigenetic modifications, i.e. a sex being trap in ESD species facing rapid climate change by consistently
associated with a given set of epigenetic marks, as has it already producing heavily skewed sex ratios ([71]; but see also [72]).
been demonstrated in the European sea bass [35]; and (iii) deter- To test the role of epigenetics in evolutionary transitions
mine whether epigenetic changes are cause or consequence of a between sexual systems, taxa where the sexual system varies
given gene expression programme. To this end, help can come by order, family, genus or even species, such as Cnidaria, poly-
from manipulations of the epigenome by the use of DNA chaetes and teleost fishes [2] would be most appropriate. The
methyltransferase inhibitors such as 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine use of techniques such as WGBS could allow the identification
(5-aza-dC), shown to be able to alter sex ratios in zebrafish, of differentially methylated cytosines or differentially methyl-
Danio rerio [69], or the more recently developed technique to ated regions in the gonads (provided they are examined at
edit the methylome in the mammalian genome [70]; and exactly the same developmental time and stage of the reproduc-
(iv) dealing with the fact that epigenetic marks mostly are cell tive cycle) in key genes involved in sex determination. Closely
specific. Thus, cell-specific analysis approaches, currently related and sympatric species with contrasting sexual systems
becoming more used, are needed. Of note, besides the impor- such as, for example, Diplodus puntazzo (gonochorist) versus
tance that one may give to the epigenetic regulation of sex, it Diplodus annularis (protandrous) [73], would be appropriate.
should not be forgotten the crucial role of transcription factors Recently, the assessment of patterns in the evolution of
such as Sox9, Foxl2 and Dmrt1 in sex determination and main- sex-determination systems in the diverse vertebrate clades
tenance [50]. Thus, epigenetic mechanisms contribute and are of teleost fishes, squamate reptiles and amphibians evidenced

necessary but not sufficient for the establishment of sex. not only similar transition rates between homomorphic and


heteromorphic sex chromosomes in both fishes and Finally, the detection of epigenetically facilitated muta-
