behavioural plasticity. ‘Social heredity’ or ‘tradition’ was new definition was without a doubt a clarification. But, at 5
the intergenerational ‘social transmission’ [46, chapter 7] of the same time, it was also a simplification and an impoverish-__ >
specific behaviours resulting from learning. Social heredity ment of the causality involved in the process, especially when =
was pivotal in allowing individuals to enhance their survival one compares Simpson’s Baldwin effect and the mechanisms — o>
in new environments, which increases the efficiency of organic developed by Baldwin, Schmalhausen and Waddington. S
selection and thus the hereditary ‘acquisition’ of new adap- Most importantly, the reciprocal relationship between non-
tations [44, p. 541]. Social heredity and organic selection genetic inheritance and the Baldwin effect as elaborated by 3
were self-reinforcing processes, producing orthoplasy at the Baldwin is simply missing from Simpson’s account, and asa =
macroevolutionary scale [46, pp. 104, 173]. consequence, it was never discussed again in the second half =~
It is quite easy to translate these outdated concepts in a of the twentieth century. It is difficult to establish if this omis-
modern framework: to Baldwin, epigenetic inheritance sion by Simpson was deliberate or not and to which extent it
worked along the same lines as individual plasticity because might have been caused by the lack of clarity of Baldwin's
these two interacting phenomena allow populations to tem- own writings. But the fact is that in such a simplified form,
porarily survive environmental changes. The epigenetic the Baldwin effect was both fully compatible with the
transmission of a new phenotype reinforces the efficiency of Modern Synthesis and of little interest [42, pp. 115-116], a
the Baldwin effect by increasing the amount of time available viewpoint that quickly becomes standard [56, pp. 610-613]
for the occurrence of ‘coincident’ mutations (see §4b). and has remained so since [57].
(b) Why was the Baldwin effect marginalized at the 4, Epigenetic inheritance and the efficiency of
time of the modern synthesis? the Baldwin effect and genetic assimilation

After initially eliciting extensive debates regarding its effi-
ciency and scope, the Baldwin effect was rather quickly
eclipsed around the late 1900s and very rarely mentioned or
discussed during the thirty years that followed. It re-emerged
as a topic of interest only in the late 1930s, first in the Russian