particularly predictive of a Need for Chaos in contexts high in Need for Chaos are in terms of demographics and
involving deprivation and exclusion [8]. In contrast, personality. Are all groups equally likely to hold a segment
status-oriented individuals have consistently been found to of radicals, or are particular groups more likely than others
engage in so-called ‘system-justification’ when deprivation to contain those with such attitudes? While some evidence
is absent; in this context, systemic injustices are exists that the Need for Chaos is distinct from other malevo-
explained away as a reflection of individual choice [13]. lent traits [8], it is crucial to replicate this finding in countries
Figure 1 illustrates this theoretical model: Need for Chaos outside of the United States.
is activated by the confluence of status-oriented personality Finally, we know little about the political aims and beha-
traits and the presence of perceived marginalization. In this viours of chaos-seekers beyond their orientation to
regard, it is also important to note that while chaos-oriented disruption. Are they a uniform political group in the sense
motivations are triggered by thwarted status aspirations, that they share a set of ideological positions and issue atti-
chaos-seekers do not need to be deprived in an absolute tudes? Or, in contrast, does ‘chaos seeking’ constitute a thin
sense. In fact, previous research suggests that a Need for ideology [14] that weakly links a politically diverse and unco-
Chaos is more widespread in middle rather than low ordinated set of individuals who want to watch the world
income groups [8]. burn for very different reasons? Prior exploratory analyses
While existing work has identified chaos-seeking as a suggest that individuals high in Need for Chaos can be
measurable social strategy and demonstrates how it leads to found at the extremes of both the political Right and Left,
disruptive political behaviour, we know much less about but a broad assessment of their political inclinations on stan-
who chaos-seekers are. The aim of the present manuscript dard inventories of political behaviours and attitudes has not

thus provides the first comprehensive, cross-national yet been done.


Table 1. Multigroup Latent Profile Analysis: Need for Chaos indicators. N= 12250 (USA N= 5000; UK N=5105; Canada N= 1045; Australia N = 1100; El
Likelihood: —146298.27; AIC: 292696.53; BIC: 293067.20; sample size adjusted BIC: 292908.30). Paired t-tests comparing means of the Low Chaos indicators to