support theories that posit the existence of core differences in cultural institutions and ecologies in shaping the political brain
beliefs, values and behaviours among people of different ideol- and psychology around the globe [40,41]. In fact, political
ogies [5]. However, we found these effects in a limited number of orientations have been hypothesized to be related to relevant
nations and, similar to previous research [7], the magnitude of physiological, psychological and behavioural differences
the effect of the relation between political ideology and [542-44]. However, other research questioned some of these
cooperation was small (see electronic supplementary material). findings and highlighted similarities (rather than differences)

This suggests that although there are differences in how people in the behaviour and physiological responses among people
cooperate in social dilemmas based on their political ideology, with different worldviews [27,45]. These different results
research should be cautious in not overestimating the role of may be owing to the restricted number of nations (e.g. nations
ideology in social dilemmas. In fact, it is possible that other with higher GDP like the USA) and samples used in research
individual differences (e.g. personality [13]), or contextual fac- on the neuroscience and psychology of political ideology. In
tors (e.g. punishment, communication [37,38]), explain more fact, we found that individual differences in political ideology
variance on how people behave in social dilemmas. are more remarkable in societies with specific institutions,

Differences in cooperation and national parochialism while playing a minor role in others. Therefore, previous
among people with different ideologies were also present in research may have underestimated the role of culture and ecol-
the extent to which people trusted strangers, and to which ogies, which may be crucial to understand the interplay
they identified with their nations or the world as a whole. In between the environment, the formation of individual differ-
fact, we found that conservatives, compared to liberals, ences and how individual differences are expressed in
expected less cooperation from strangers in general, and behaviour [46]. As culture has had a prominent role in shaping
expected relatively more cooperation from a partner with human brains and behaviours [47,48], future research needs to
shared nationality. Moreover, people with conservative embrace a cross-cultural approach to understand how differ-
rather than liberal ideologies identified more with their ences in ecology, culture and institutions can affect the
nation and identified less with the world as a whole. The effects biology and psychology of political ideology across nations.