matode parasites under field conditions. By maintaining targets for ecoimmunological research by providing useful, =
individuals from laboratory cultured maternal sibships in and in some cases, well-developed genomics resources [117]. =
field enclosures, he demonstrated significant family-level vari- From the angle of gastropod immunogenomics, Biomphalaria = &
ation in parasite resistance. Similar variation has been seen in glabrata is the most intensively studied species with a relatively =
the susceptibility of L. stagnalis snails to trematode cercariae in well-annotated reference genome [37]. However, research on >!
laboratory exposures [110]. In L. stagnalis, family-level vari- B. glabrata mainly focuses on understanding the molecular s
ation in immune activity (antibacterial activity and PO-like mechanisms that determine its, and other Biomphalaria species Ss
activity of haemolymph) has also been demonstrated under [118], resistance/susceptibility to Schistosoma mansoni, a tre- a
laboratory conditions using both maternal sibships [80,111] matode parasite that is a global human health problem [119].
and full-sib families [112,113]. Although the conducted studies The ‘omics’-level work on the immune function of B. glabrata
demonstrate the role of within-population genetic variation in [120] has revealed commonalities of the general molluscan
determining susceptibility to infections and the strength of the defence system when compared to other taxa. These include,
immune defence, the fact that they are limited to comparisons for instance, the roles of lectins in non-self recognition, TLR sig-
among maternal sibships and full-sib families prevents their nalling for immune regulation, and antimicrobial proteins and
use in disentangling the actual genetic mechanisms that deter- ROS production by haemocytes to eliminate pathogens.
mine variation (e.g. additive versus dominance variance) and Although lineage-specific differences occur, for example,
means that the results can be confounded by parental effects between prosobranch and heterobranch snails and even
(but see [112]). Therefore, the studies conducted on molluscs between closely related families like Planorbidae and Physidae
cannot estimate the evolutionary potential of the immune [121], work on B. glabrata provides a useful resource to support
defence traits/parasite resistance based on narrow-sense ecoimmunological studies in other taxa. Research on B. glabrata
heritability that is defined by breeding values. also aims to identify targets in snail biology that may help to
Recent and ongoing work on the genomics of L. stagnalis develop control measures of this species in nature to reduce
may provide great opportunities to use the tools of molecular human exposure to schistosomes. That effort logically calls
quantitative genetics when examining variation in immune for combining molecular immunology with field ecology and
activity in natural snail populations under field conditions. requires ecoimmunological investigations.