
populations (mainly mammals and birds; reviewed in [89]).
To our knowledge, such studies on immune defence have
only been conducted in Soay sheep [84] and a few bird

3. Evolutionary potential of Immune activity species (e.g. [81-83]). The rarity of such studies is likely to
The second requirement for adaptive trait evolution is that be because collecting pedigree data in natural populations
the traits under selection can respond to it. Specifically, fit- is always demanding and practically impossible in many
ness-related traits need to show heritable genetic variation study systems (e.g. invertebrates). Furthermore, similarly to
[36]. Therefore, understanding the genetic architecture of the studies on natural selection on immune activity described
and the extent and type of genetic variation in phenotypic above, quantitative genetic studies on immune function focus
traits is indispensable for understanding their evolution on a few phenotypic immune traits that reflect the amount of
[75]. In fact, if and how natural populations can evolutiona- end products of immune cascades (e.g. [32-34]). Thus, quan-
rily respond to natural selection is one of the main topics in titative genetic studies are often not successful at predicting
current evolutionary ecological research. Estimating quanti- the evolution of the immune system as a whole and would
tative genetic parameters such as additive genetic variance greatly benefit from the integration of transcriptomics to
and covariance of traits is an efficient approach for testing expand the collection of measured immune traits at the gene
whether or not natural populations can evolve through adap- expression level. To our knowledge, such an analysis on the
tation, and how fast this process can be (reviewed in [76,77]). genetic architecture (i.e. variance components) of the expression
This is especially important because in many systems, natural of several immune traits has not yet been conducted.
populations do not respond to the observed selection, or their In the field of quantitative genetics, interest in using geno-
responses differ from the predictions based on selection mics tools when examining the heritability of phenotypic
(e.g. [78,79]). The above approach is highly relevant also in traits is currently increasing. Using genomics methods
the case of immune defence traits. However, despite wide allows, for instance, genotyping of individuals with high
interest on the evolutionary potential of immune traits (e.g. marker density across the whole genome (e.g. single nucleo-