agarose matrix. Following partial restriction digestion of the move molecular malacology forward.

DNA held in the agarose plug, DNA fragments of up to 500
kbp can be eluted. This approach has yielded BAC libraries
for B. glabrata (Gastropoda), C. gigas and Crassostrea virginica

(both bivalves) containing genomic inserts with average 9. Concluding remarks

lengths of 136kbp, 152kbp and 320kbp, respectively During the decades since the early 1980s, molecular malacol-
[100,101]. DNA fragments of this size present a considerable ogy has flourished by overcoming sticky problems that
challenge for sequencing (and assembly) with short-read impeded access and study of molluscan RNA and DNA. In
approaches like first (Sanger) and second (Illumina) generation hindsight, it should be recognized that these challenges rep-
sequencing methods, but are in fact very appropriate templates resent common features of molluscan biology, often shared
for third-generation sequencing approaches like PacBio and by other taxonomic groups including other invertebrate
Nanopore that routinely produce long reads from several kilo- phyla, fungi and plants. Despite obvious common evolution-
bases up to a record 2.3 megabases [102]. A modified agarose ary ancestry, it may be good to realize that aspects of the
plug-based approach was used effectively to prepare HMW biology of the vertebrate animals for which the initial molecu-
genomic DNA for long-read sequencing toward characteriz- lar biology methods were developed can be quite distinct
ation of the Pecten maximus (bivalve) genome by, in 2020 from the biology of the majority of life across phylogeny.
[103]. With the increasing popularity of long-read sequencing, With a choice of CTAB-based and other DNA extraction
alternative methods have been developed to minimize mech- methods to avoid sticky mucopolysccharides and inhibitory
anical shearing during extraction in order to prepare HMW polyphenolic proteins, and recognizing the impact of sticky
DNA, potentially also from molluscs [104,105], and commer- pigments and other factors; the complications for RNA qual-
cial biotech companies offer an ever-growing variety of kits ity control due to hidden break ‘unsticking’ of 28S rRNA
