Hygrophila and Stylommatophora, provided similar discre- is not present in DNA samples extracted from embryos (egg masses) of
pancies between DNA quantification by spectrophotometry P. acuta using the same procedure (two replicate DNA pellet samples on
versus (Qubit) fluorometry, a method that measures the fluor- the left). Both types of samples can be used for restriction digestion and PCR.

escent signal that results from quantitative, specific binding of
marker dyes only to DNA at the exclusion of other components

in the sample [59]. It may be noted that while spectropho- [1,61-63]). Additionally, molluscan RNA continues to be
tometry detects overall nucleic acids (failing to distinguish used successfully for obtaining full-length cDNA sequences
DNA and RNA if both are present), protein and organic con- by rapid amplification of CDNA ends (RACE), microarray-
tent in a sample, it is best used alongside electrophoresis to based expression studies and annotation of exons in molluscan
inform more completely on quality, concentration, composition genomes (e.g. [64-66]). Clearly, there are ample demonstrations
and degradation of any DNA sample. that molluscs do in fact yield quality RNA containing full-
Thus it is good to be aware that molluscan DNA may con- length mRNA transcripts that allow productive and meaning-
tain pigments and other contaminants. These may not generally ful downsteam experiments. A common standard approach,
prohibit the molecular study of molluscs but they can interfere however, to test the integrity of mRNA consistently fails to con-
with downstream analyses. In particular, spectrophotometric firm the quality of molluscan RNA. This can be quite vexing, in
quantification of DNA, important for several downstream particular to novice molecular malacologists, raising doubt
procedures including next-generation sequencing, can be chal- about methods and sample quality, especially for use in NGS
lenged by molluscan pigments that copurify during the RNA-seq when (commercial) facilities may be reluctant to
extraction of DNA from molluscs. These contaminants are not guarantee productive sequencing for RNA samples that do
integral components of molluscan heterochromatin. Anecdo- not pass such quality control. As discussed below, the quality
tally, DNA pellets from albino B. glabrata are less intensely of molluscan RNA is not at issue; rather the issue arises
stained than those from wild-type pigmented snails and selec- when the method used for quality control fails to consider
tive use of internal organs that are less pigmented than the differences in the molecular biology of vertebrate versus