CRISPR editing in molluscs to date (table 2), but gene knock- target edit unless both eggs and sperm are edited. It may
out via non-homologous end joining (described in [106]) has also be plausible to use sperm as the delivery vehicle for the
been successfully demonstrated in the freshwater snail Lym- CRISPR/Cas9 complex to edit the eggs after fertilization, an
naea stagmalis, the squid Doryteuthis pealeii and C. gigas approach shown to be successful in chickens [126]. The abun-
[119,123,124]. Furthermore, exogenous DNA insertion via the dance of active transposable elements in molluscan genomes
homology-directed repair (HDR) pathway has been demon- could be adapted to allow insertion of exogenous DNA
strated in the marine snail Crepidula fornicata [117]. These sequences, which has been successfully demonstrated in the
four studies are the only reported use of CRISPR in molluscs, pacific oyster to incorporate green fluorescing protein (GFP)
which demonstrates that the CRISPR/Cas9 system can be suc- [118]. Combined with a large number of gametes, low trans-
cessfully implemented, but knowledge of the optimal genesis and editing efficiency mean there is a clear need for
approaches for successful editing is limited. Cell lines are typi- a high-throughput screen to select for successfully edited/
cally used at early stages of gene-editing research, but there are transgenic gametes/embryos. One possible option is to use a
no suitable cell lines for marine molluscs and the use of fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS)-based approach,
primary culture has significant limitations [125]. where the cells (either gametes or embryos) contain a fluor-
Transgenesis, the process of introducing and expressing escent protein, such as GFP. Incorporating fluorescent
exogenous DNA from another organism, has also been suc- proteins has been successful in molluscs previously through
cessfully demonstrated in other molluscs (table 2). Different CRISPR/Cas9 HDR, electroporation and natural transfection
approaches have been successfully demonstrated, including (table 2). This approach would need to be optimized to account
CRISPR/Cas9_ HDR, plasmid and transposon-mediated for issues such as the delayed time until an expression of fluor-
transfection (table 2). Most of these studies have been for escent protein, and/or the relatively large size of embryos
proof of concept, only focussing on the expression of reporter [127]. Alternatively, antibiotic selection using G418 has been
proteins such as fluorescence. An increase in the growth rate demonstrated to be a potential approach for the enrichment
of abalone following the introduction of fish growth hormone of transfected embryos in C. virginica [112].
has been reported [110], but the mechanism of this response While early studies in aquaculture species have focused on
