in a story, including contextual details (e.g. sounds, feelings, an idea simultaneously. For that, in McNeill’s view, speech =
thoughts, people and objects). The mindreading system and and gesture were evolutionary ‘equiprimordial’. However, = &
the systems of spatial and temporal projection work hand challenging this view, experimental studies testing the ©
in hand in narrative processing and represent the core of a relation between modality, interaction and the emergence of S
neurocognitive network that can be defined as the narrative language found that, at least in the early stages, gesture
brain [14]. played a dominant role compared to vocalization in panto- Ss
The systems constituting the narrative brain at the basis of mime [59-61]. Specifically, these studies showed that when S
the narrative representation of reality are devices not specific gesture is produced in conjunction with vocalizations, this
to language. The mindreading system has evolved to make does not necessarily increase the power of a communicative
sense of other’s behaviours; the systems of spatial and tem- act (i.e. accuracy in identifying communicated meanings)
poral projection have evolved to allow individuals to over gestural communication. This does not mean, however,
detach from the present context imagining different spatial denying the multimodal nature of communication, i.e. the
and temporal scenarios. This allows corroboration of the fact that multimodality is the default mode of interaction
view they are independent from language and preceded it of human communication [62-65]. What we are stressing
phylogenetically, on the one hand, and that they were likely here is that there is evidence revealing that gesture has a
present in archaic hominins, on the other [20,21,45]. From greater potential for ‘bootstrapping’ a communication
these considerations, it is legitimate to hypothesize that nar- system than non-linguistic vocalization (e.g. [66,67]). That
rative representations made possible by the narrative brain said, pantomime would certainly have gradually included
constrained the form of the expressions used by our predeces- vocalizations [47], which would have the effect of enhancing
sors in communicating their thoughts to others. In other the overall message (as we will argue below, vocal communi-
words, it can be assumed that narrative communication cation evolved for complex syntax that, in turn, developed
followed narrative representation. to facilitate persuasive communication). Following these
The second line of evidence regards the transition from considerations, we take the view that pantomime was a
narrative representation to narrative communication. To precursor of human language because, as shown, it is charac-
account for this transition, it is necessary to bring into play terized by the two properties that distinguish human