modal in nature [106-109]. This assumption is consistent involved in the emergence and change of constructions.
with research on multimodal processing in human communi- However, it is also important to note that this approach still
cation [110,111], and can also be captured in a CxG faces a number of limitations. For instance, attempts to system-
framework [112,113]. Current approaches in a CxG frame- atically reconstruct protolanguage stages from a CxG point of
work see language as a multimodal phenomenon and have view at present are still very much in their initial stages and are,
also started to describe constructions in multimodal terms. therefore, still quite general [5,15]. This holds especially in
This perspective also links up nicely with various lines of comparison with the classic work on linguistic reconstruction
research in cognitive science, e.g. frameworks emphasiz- using the traditional comparative method or detailed propo-
ing embodiment and enactivism, which sees action as sals in formalist frameworks such as that of Progovac [124]
constitutive of perception and cognition [114]. Given that (see also [43]) or those rooted in grammaticalization theory
multimodal CxG sees multimodal constructions as a central such as that of Heine & Kuteva [3].
component of modern fully fledged languages, this perspec- Importantly, however, these different approaches are not
tive in fact predicts that PL1 and PL2(s) were also multimodal mutually exclusive but rather complementary. More than
in nature. many other fields, language evolution research has always
In a CxG framework, there are two additional founda- relied on converging evidence from multiple sources and dis-
tional capacities for the evolution of PL1 and its elaborations ciplines, and as outlined in the introduction, the principle of
in PL2. The first is the importance of iconicity in language seeking converging evidence has become even more impor-
structure and acquisition [115,116], which has also been tant across various disciplines in recent years and decades.
suggested to play an important role in the emergence of proto- Constructionist approaches can arguably add various impor-
linguistic forms of communication, especially in the gestural tant parts to the ‘jigsaw puzzle’ of linguistic reconstruction,
domain [108,117-119]. Interestingly, great apes seem not to especially when it comes to delineating the processes and
be able to spontaneously comprehend iconic gestures mechanisms involved in the emergence and change of linguis-
[120,121]. However, over time, they learn iconic gestures tic constructions, and when it comes to the reconstruction of
faster than arbitrary ones [121], and there are some occur- patterns above the word level. One important goal for
rences of iconic gestures in the wild [122]. This suggests that future research that would strengthen this approach is that