from figure 1, the two initial lineages split at the same time, nates for the world’s populated places, the only input
4 steps after the root. After a total of 44 steps (44+76= required is a tree structure such as the one displayed in
120), we reach the tips of the terminal branches. Since the figure 1, encoded as in the output for the language family
simulations output word lists in the style of the input to a simulation program.” Using one and the same phylogeny,
published, linguistic dating method [35], it is easy to translate we produce 1000 diffusion scenarios. Since these play out
time steps into calendar years, should one want a more palp- in real-life geography, they will be sensitive to natural bound-
able alternative. The family used here is 2297 years old when aries such as mountains, deserts and bodies of water. If the
measured by lexical and phonological changes happening diffusion starts on a small island containing less than 800
from the first split to the root. Thus, a time step, in this populated places, there is a high probability that a lineage
case, can be interpreted as representing 2297/44 ~52 years. will make a jump away from the island; if it starts in a den-

The structure of the tree does not translate directly into sely populated area the family may possibly never extend
movements of languages. For instance, the fact that the two beyond this area. Places that are currently populated work
basal lineages have some time (4 time steps) to drift apart geo- as a proxy for the carrying capacity of different areas of the
graphically does not mean that they have to—what happens in world. The kind of movement we simulate here may be
terms of movements depends on stochastic processes that we called a semi-random walk, since it is a kind of random
simulate separately. For simulating the geographical diffusion walk constrained to populated places. In spite of the con-
of languages, we again use published software with a few straint, there is a possibility of jumps, so it is envisaged that
modifications and make the updated software available here a method for reconstructing a linguistic homeland will
(electronic supplementary material, SI-02, output in SI-03). encounter both cases where languages have relatively even
Thus, for a full description and justification of the simulation distribution and cases where languages end up clustering

procedure, a paper [36] is already available. in separate regions. Maps of all 1000 cases, showing the

