classes of signs through handshape, such as classifier signs. combined low probability of both events makes it highly
The hypothesis that hand stencils represent formatives of a doubtful that the hand stencils correspond to a ‘village’ or
sign language may look like an unexpected one. The primary ‘rural’ sign language in the mentioned sense. (ii) Shared sign
sign languages we are most familiar with (say ASL, British languages are dependent on a very unstable ecology, that
Sign Language, Hong Kong Sign Language, but also newly can be modified by small changes in the gene/mutation
emerging languages like Nicaraguan Sign Language, see ratios. The Martha’s Vineyard Sign Language spoken between
[97]) are found in signing communities which are almost the seventeenth and the early twentieth century disappeared
totally constituted by deaf people, and evolve in a social for exactly that reason. In the Western European context, we
context in which spoken language is hegemonic and sign are talking about an archaeological feature that is temporally
language is employed by a distinctive minority. Sign language bounded, but potentially spans across millennia within the
is usually transmitted there outside the family context, cultural period called the Gravettian.
through schools or other purposeful socializing and edu- A more important reason to discard the rural or village
cational environments, which seem completely at odds with language hypothesis comes from the fact that there is a
our understanding of the ordinary life of human groups of more apt candidate for a plausible scenario in which a sign

the Upper Palaeolithic. language could have developed in that period. Within the


rich typology of sign language types attested across the
world, together with the sign languages associated with the
presence of a deaf population, we must also count non-
primary sign languages that do not imply the presence of
an uncommonly high deaf population. As a matter of fact,
bimodal bilingualism (oral and signed language bilingual-
ism) is a relatively common feature among hunter-gatherer