driven climate change?) critically need these how and why ques- movements of marine megafauna under natural conditions.
tions to be answered. However, physiologging technologies For example, Archie Carr used styrofoam floats and helium-
have evolved much more slowly than biologging technologies, filled balloons to track the movement of green turtles in the
with cutting edge developments generally coming from indi- open sea [23], Per Scholander deployed capillary tubes on a
vidual laboratory groups or research projects. From the 1960s fin whale to measure their maximum dive depth [24], and
onwards, a revolution in microelectronics, sports wearable Arthur DeVries attached a Tsurumi Seiki depth recorder on
technologies, nano-sensor devices and portable medical diag- female Weddell seals to show that these animals could dive
nostics for humans has provided a fertile opportunity for a down to at least 350 m [25] (figure 1). Following on from the
step change in the study of physiology in free-living animals, research by Arthur DeVries, Gerald Kooyman then designed
which does not seem to have been exploited. For example, in and built a time-depth recorder for deployment on Weddell
1962, Leyland C. Clark (the inventor of the oxygen electrode) seals to demonstrate that these animals can dive even deeper,
invented the ‘enzyme electrode’, which used electrochemical as individuals reached depths beyond 600 m and for longer
detection of an immobilized enzyme by a metal electrode to than 40 min [37]. In fact, this particular study may have been
measure the concentrations of various substances [19]. These the genesis of the field of measuring physiology in free-living
‘biosensors’ are now extremely small, can cost as little as 2 animals [38]. In 2003, the first international symposium on
cents a test, and can be mass produced in millions of such research was held in Tokyo, and a new term ‘Bio-logging’

units via screen-printing [20,21]. In a total biosensor market was proposed by the organizing committee. Biologging has


now come to be defined as the ‘investigation of phenomena in handful of laboratories that have in-house engineers design-

or around free-living organisms that are beyond the boundary ing custom-made devices for their studies [36,63,64]. By
of our visibility or experience’ [39]. Since then, a biologging introducing the field of biologging to medical biotechnology
symposium has been held every two to three years in several and sports wearables, as well as technology used in managed