to refine the sign system, making it more efficient [128]. should exhibit high degrees of primary iconicity, allowing

With regard to the problem of pantomimic fossils, exper- them to transfer information in the absence of any communica-
imental research provides two valuable insights. First, tive conventions (self-sufficiency). The results of many
modern humans are able to communicate by means of impro- experimental studies corroborate this view, but, as we noted,
vised bodily visual signs with relative ease, and second, such an interpretation of them is mitigated by the fact that
repeated communication through the use of such signs pro- emerging signs are only self-sufficient to the degree that they
motes their simplification (leading to a gradual decrease of are distinguishable from other items in a closed meaning
their iconic character) and conventionalization. At the initial space provided by the experimenters. There is also evidence
stage, signs meet all the major characteristics of pantomime: that primary iconicity plays an important role in bootstrapping
they are improvised and holistic bodily visual forms of com- early signs in emerging signed languages. Although there are
munication capable of expressing meanings that are not many examples of early signs whose status as primary-iconic
limited to selected semantic domains and the here-and-now. is problematic, we would like to draw attention to the fact

However, some of these characteristics should be inter- that pantomime is expected in the very first signs that appear
preted with caution, mainly owing to the limitations of in the process of bootstrapping. In village signed languages,
experimental designs. Typically, experiments use a closed such as ABSL, even the earliest recorded signs may already
meaning space, and as a result, they do not show, at least have undergone some conventionalization, whereas in the
directly, that such communication has open semantics. This deaf community signed languages, such NSL or STPSL, initial
limitation also bears on the status of emerging signs as pri- conventionalization would have occurred at the stage of
mary-iconic and self-sufficient, ie. their having the ability home-signing, which could have an impact on how signs
to perform the referential function only by virtue of their were bootstrapped after home signers arrived at school. Finally,
similarity to intended referents. The complexity of semantic the self-sufficient and primary-iconic nature of signs in charade
information is likewise constrained. Apart from a few studies games or the pantomimes of people with aphasia can be ques-
in which participants were asked to communicate events (e.g. tioned on the grounds that these forms of communication still