Surprisingly, skin levels of advanced glycation end-products, social mole-rats, an issue that has not been sufficiently =
markers of senescence in many vertebrate species [15], are addressed until now in Fukomys. On the basis of findings >
higher in breeders than in age-matched non-breeders of F. from studies of naked mole-rats, one could speculate that &
anselli [16]. Again, contrary to expectations from classic also in Fukomys mole-rats, non-breeders that are separated =
ageing models, the shorter-lived non-breeders in F. anselli from their family experience more stress than those that S
exhibit significantly lower mass-specific resting metabolic remain with their parents. However, incest avoidance after
rates within the thermoneutral zone than do breeders [17]. the loss of breeding individuals appears to be more pro-
A recent comprehensive transcriptome analysis found nounced in Fukomys than in Heterocephalus, so non-breeders
that the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis seems from the two taxa may show different responses to changing
to play an important role in shaping the differences in long- family constellations. In line with this assumption, female
evity between Fukomys breeders and non-breeders [18]. The non-breeders of F. damarensis actually showed a trend towards
study reported higher expression of adrenocorticotropic decreased urinary cortisol levels after separation from their
hormone (ACTH) receptor in the adrenal glands of Fukomys natal family [34]. In fact, we observed anecdotally that, in
non-breeders, a finding suggesting that cortisol production Fukomys families that included both parents, older non-bree-
is upregulated in non-breeders but not in breeders. The ders in particular were seriously bitten, so that we had to
same study found that cortisol target genes are differentially remove the animals from their natal family. Furthermore, we
expressed in Fukomys breeders and non-breeders [18]. The noticed in giant mole-rats (F. mechowii) that non-breeders
secretion of glucocorticoids, namely cortisol and corticoster- which were removed from their natal families or were living
one, is usually increased as a response to a stressor and in families in which one or both parents had died were
enables adaptation to an increased energy demand, mainly among the longest-lived animals in captivity.
by modulating energy homeostasis and cardiovascular regu- These anecdotal observations prompted us to systemati-
lation. Secretion of glucocorticoids from the adrenal gland cally peruse the 28-year collection of data (1992-2020) about
is regulated by the HPA axis. In response to a stressor, giant mole-rats so that we could determine the constellations
the hypothalamus secretes corticotropin-releasing hormone, under which social stress arises in mole-rat families, which
which stimulates the pituitary to secrete ACTH into the protagonists are involved, and whether aggression patterns