lized regions of the brain with exceptionally high spatial and = &
temporal resolution. Through a new and innovative design,

3. Developments in microsystems engineering the technology overcomes previous challenges of making sim- S
. . ultaneous multi-channel neuronal recordings without
and implantable devices expanding the size of the chip. Neuroprosthetic devices such =
Modern biosensor technologies are often underpinned by as those mentioned above have tremendous applicability to S
cutting-edge engineering. To understand how such devices the measurement of physiology in wild animals; the ability
operate and might be applied to the measurement of physio- to track neuronal activity in brain circuits has largely been
logical status in wild animals it is necessary to understand the restricted to laboratory-based investigations but with develop-
production techniques employed, key design features and the ments such as these the possibility of long-term neurological
relative advantages these approaches confer upon the final monitoring and even neurological manipulation in wild ani-
device and its performance. Due to the fact that our focus mals is coming closer. Indeed such technology would not
is on measurement in wild animals, engineering themes just allow description of the neuronal activity of wild animals
which are applicable to this area have been selected for at liberty (e.g. during flying and diving [39,40]) but also reveal
further elaboration. and even mechanistically isolate the neural factors that pre-dis-
Microsystems engineering is a key area which underpins pose wild animals to stressors such as capture and handling
many modern biosensor technologies. The area is more often for study, and anthropogenic light [32].
referred to as ‘microelectromechanical systems’ (MEMS) and Electrochemical biosensors rely on the use of a potentio-
commonly refers to devices on the scale of 1-100 pm with stat to measure currents and voltages at the biosensor
smaller devices referred to as ‘nanoelectromechanical systems’ electrodes under test. Traditionally, the potentiostat has
(NEMS). Effective biosensing strategies and investigations into tended to be a laboratory-based instrument, often large in
the enhanced analytical performance of ‘small’ electrode sen- size and inflexible in terms of its measurement options. In
sors have been demonstrated with micro- [29] and nanoscale recent years, there has been a large amount of research on
electrodes [30]. These studies have often focussed on ex vivo portable, low cost instruments with a strong emphasis on