both for the outcome of evolution and for how cultural evolution The facts that individuals acquire traits sequentially and that
should be theoretically explored [11,15,17,52]. In principle, any- traits can interact may have important organizing effects. The
thing that influences transmission, retention and use of cultural resulting developmental path dependence (see §3b) can limit
traits needs to be considered. which traits an individual acquires, and so promote the evol-
For instance, traits that are contagious enough can spread ution of cultural systems [22,55,66,111,112]. For instance, an
and be maintained in a population even if they reduce the individual might acquire a belief A about the world, which
survival and/or biological reproduction of individuals subsequently facilitates the acquisition of other beliefs that
[105-107]. Suppose lifestyle A produces more children than are consistent with A but leads to the rejection of beliefs
lifestyle B and that parental lifestyles are often transmitted that are not [113]. If, instead, the individual would first
to the children. However, children are also exposed to the acquire an alternative belief B, then this could trigger the
alternative lifestyle B, which is more attractive (e.g. because eventual acquisition of an entirely different belief system.
it is easier to learn). This may be driven by a genetic or cul- Similar reasoning can apply to other categories of traits. In
tural bias for this lifestyle, and could result in B increasing fact, there are many ways in which traits can interact and
in frequency compared to A. Figure 1 provides a numerical influence evolution. Traits may or may not operate well
example. A complete analysis of cultural evolution scenarios together (within or between individuals), they might express
of this kind requires exploration of both the evolution of life- preferences towards other traits, and define goals the individ-

styles and the evolution of preferences for lifestyles [108]. ual strives for that are better served by certain traits than


lifestyle adults children adults

A 100 =————— > _ 110 —— 80% —> 97

20%