
arising from using Rp estimates in isolation, or comparing supplementary material and a preliminary version of

them directly between different studies. The published litera- figure 3a), was presented to the Scientific Pandemic Influenza 3
ture has been awash with estimates of Ro, obtained from a group on Modelling (SPI-M) on 20 March 2020. z
plethora of data sources and often subsequently cited with- The context in which these estimates were made is illus- S
out discussion of the underpinning technical details and trated in figure 4. At the time, estimates of the basic S
assumptions. In addition to the data and method of choice, reproduction number and the unconstrained growth rate of = =
estimates of Rp are sensitive to assumptions on the serial SARS-CoV-2, obtained predominantly using data from S
interval, generation time and pre-symptomatic transmission China, varied widely. However, some of these appeared ©
[42,43,58,59]. The broad range of estimates, from 0.48 to only in non-peer-reviewed preprints (including those from =
14.8 [60], underscores the magnitude of the problem. The Read et al. [54], published in this issue), with the discourse 5
fact that peer-reviewed publications discussing these details dominated by estimates coming from the most established =
have only become available towards the end of 2020 [61] epidemic modelling groups and the highest-impact journals. = >
highlights the limited attention this topic has received. In line with these, the consensus of the Scientific Advisory — __

Even though our analysis focussed on the early stage of the Group for Emergencies (SAGE) at the time was ona doubling = =
pandemic, the conclusions remain important. First, our estimates time of around 5-6 days!” and a UK epidemic lagging 2-4 =
of the unconstrained growth rate are essential to plan worst-case weeks behind the Italian one®. a
scenarios and calibrate models guiding both the relaxation and Our estimates were not the only ones presented at the SPI- =
the re-implementation of interventions. Second, recognizing M meeting on 20 March: a preliminary analysis from Public = &
detection delays can help to avoid overconfidence in epidemic Health England’s Joint Modelling Team, based on the then =
control when interventions are relaxed: new infections can scarce and rapidly changing confirmed cases and deaths in >
build up unnoticed for several days while detected cases England, also estimated a 3-day doubling time. What made s
appear to be consistently decreasing. Similarly, when interven- our analysis particularly robust was the comparison between Ss