sar oe * » os s oe S se a a a & os on oo i
w
Figure 6. Daily confirmed cases in Norway. (a) New cases; (6) instantaneous growth rate (shaded regions are 95% confidence intervals). Solid vertical lines indicate S
when students returned to school, and dashed lines indicate other interventions. (Online version in colour.) Ss
=
8
I
These findings are consistent with earlier works suggesting confirmed cases while monitoring the degree of testing in ~
that school closure in isolation is insufficient to prevent the place to ensure such numbers were indicative.
spread of COVID-19 [6,8,11]. The evidence for the impact of The GP regression method allows one to account for
school closures on growth rates in Norway and Denmark is differences between the simulated epidemic trajectories
more limited. While there was a reduction in growth rate of from the ODE model and the observed cases. However, the
hospitalized cases after school closures, it has not been possible fact that closures occurred very early on in the epidemic
to link this effect with school closures. means that the GP method often had to be trained on a
While school closures are often among the first limited number of data points.
implemented control measures, school reopenings are typically Since the instantaneous growth rate relies on the deriva-
staggered with other eased restrictions, often with a small initial tive of splines, it is subject to increased error at the
cohort of returning students. Since, to our knowledge, no strin- boundaries of the data. However, the observed signals are
gent restrictions were introduced to compensate for the qualitatively robust to this limitation. Owing to the noisiness
additional transmission risk due to school reopening, a lack of of some data streams from relatively low incidence following
signal in the growth rate after reopening would be indicative mass quarantine, the values of the instantaneous growth rate
that schools do not contribute substantially to community should be taken as a quantification of the trend in incidence
transmission. From our analysis, the reopening of schools to rather than the true value on any given day.
younger year groups and exam students in Germany, Denmark The data have generally not made it possible to account
and Norway has not resulted in a significant increase in the for inevitable geographic variability, the age distribution