the role of mental states in moral judgement was conducted by The first variant of the CME hypothesis (will not) suggests
Barrett et al. [24]. Sampling 10 different societies, this study that people in some societies could consider individual mental
examined multiple kinds of moral violations including battery, states for moral judgement, but they are unlikely to do so in prac-
theft, poisoning of a well and eating proscribed food. It also tice because there is insufficient benefit to doing so. Considering
examined multiple mental states underlying these actions, an individual's beliefs and desires would be pointless if, for
including intentional commission, accident, mistake of fact, example, the context is so constraining that individuals never
insanity, self-defence, necessity and different moral beliefs. get to choose their course of action. If the only food available
For example, the ‘battery’ scenario concerned a man in a is rice, then eating rice provides no evidence of the eater’s
crowded market place who punched another man in the face, desires. If life in general, for a whole cultural group, was so con-
either in self-defence (the other man attacked with a knife), strained that no one made individual choices, then people in
out of necessity (the other man was obstructing the path to that group might not tend to consider individuals’ beliefs and
douse a dangerous fire), or based on a reasonable mistake of desires when predicting, or explaining, actions. Thus, for
fact (falsely believing that his son was being attacked). The example, McNamara eft al. [23, p. 104] argue that ‘tight behav-
theft scenario concerned a man who took someone else’s simi- ioural structuring reduces [the] informational value of mental
lar-looking bag from the market place, on purpose or by states’: in societies with rigidly defined social roles
mistake. The poisoning scenario concerned a man who put which guide behaviour, little predictive power is gained by
insecticide in a local water source, either knowing that it was considering the individual’s motivations and intentions.
poisonous or believing that it was safe. This first variant of the CME hypothesis may be
Barrett et al. found substantial variation across cultures in accompanied by corollary hypotheses about the nature and
how people conditioned their moral judgements on actors’ function of theory of mind. First, the nature of theory of
mental states. Most dramatically, people in Western, educated, mind: the plausibility of this variant of the CME hypothesis
industrialized, rich, democratic societies (e.g. in Los Angeles) depends on how effortful it is for people to consider others’
accepted justified mistakes as basically completely exonerating mental states. If theory of mind is cognitively costly to
of battery, poisoning and theft, but people in most other deploy, then people would refrain from using it unless the
societies did not. In some societies, people judged the man benefits are large and frequent. By contrast, if theory of mind