that people overwhelmingly believed the gossip they received. value that people assigned to targets of gossip, after control-

Correspondingly, laboratory research shows that people gen- ling for relationship value at an earlier time point.
erally perceive gossip as true and act on it accordingly [79,80]. Furthermore, these variations in relationship value had = S
We did find support for the hypothesis that people were small to large associations with intentions to help, avoid, z
(slightly) less likely to believe gossip when there was a con- and confront gossip targets. Thus, people were more inclined S
flict of interests between senders and targets of gossip [40]. to benefit a person who was described as trustworthy S
However, we found no support for the hypothesis that through gossip, and were less inclined to exclude them in =
people are more likely to believe gossip when hearing the social interactions. By showing how a single gossip statement S
same gossip more frequently, either from the same or can have consequences for a person’s reputation and others’ ©
different senders. Future research could further investigate behavioural intentions towards them in future interactions, =
whether gossip is largely true or whether people are unable these findings illustrate how gossip in daily life can fuela = 5
to infer gossip veracity by comparing gossip to known facts system of indirect reciprocity and partner selection that can = =
(cf. [72,81]). In the current study, we documented self- informally regulate large-scale cooperation. S
reported veracity assessments, and it is possible that partici- =
pants were motivated to believe gossip because it Ethics. This study was carried out in accordance with the recommen- =
supported their beliefs [79,82]. This could be investigated dations of the Code of Ethics for Research in the Social and =
by relating a desire for information to be true with the per- Behavioral Sciences, Scientific and Ethical Review Board (VCWE) of Pe
ceived veracity of gossip, such as preferring negative the Faculty of Behavioral and Movement Sciences at the vu Univer- >
ape : . - oo. sity Amsterdam with written informed consent from all subjects. All <)
(positive) Bossip when it concerns rivals (allies; [44)). subjects gave written informed consent in accordance with the *
The current study has some limitations that must be con- Declaration of Helsinki. The protocol was approved by the Scientific 3
sidered. First, our observational data of gossip in daily life and Ethical Review Board (VCWE) before data collection. >
does not allow causal inferences. However, our use of the net- Data accessibility. The materials, data, and code used in this study are s
work at intake allows us to make claims about changes in how openly accessible on the Open Science Framework: https://osf.io/ S