value on bottom, with asterisk if p < 0.05).

presenting a generic model that considers different combi- extended with a bespoke experiment that investigates the
nations of individual strategies and analysing experiments effects of reputational information on inequality in strategically
with different incentives and set-ups. This approach does not updated networks for both symmetric and asymmetric social
allow explanation of differences in the results between the dilemma games, systematically varying the maximum
model and any specific experiment, or between any pair of number of possible partners. This would test whether the nega-
experiments, owing to the fact that the model and the exper- tive effects of reputation on inequality are contingent on
iments differ on more than one dimension. Nevertheless, the preferential attachment and exclusion, which prevent the
approach theoretically allows isolation of the main driving fac- opportunity to modify behaviour.
tors behind the phenomenon | studied—the emergent level of Overall, the present finding that reputation systems rarely
behaviour, the variability in individual behaviour, and the worsen inequality in social dilemma situations in degree-
assortativity between individuals with similar behaviour— constrained networks and, in fact, improve it under most
and testing of the frequency and robustness of the predictions conditions and in terms of rewarding cooperative behaviour
under variable empirical settings. This work brings attention suggests that it is possible to benefit from reputation systems
to the danger of drawing strong conclusions from a single without undesirable side effects. If reputation is used to encou-
model or experiment. Specifically, although prior research rage defectors to cooperate, rather than punish and isolate
offers empirical evidence for the intuitive expectation that stra- them, then everyone will be better off. This could be achieved
tegic partner selection increases inequality in terms of payoff by, for instance, implementing smart search algorithms in
dispersion [17], I have revealed that this outcome is in fact online markets and more deliberate team-formation strategies
rare for most network cooperation settings. in schools and organizations.

I acknowledge that the results presented here are not con-
clusive and that further research is needed. The biggest Ethics. The research involves secondary data that are robustly anon-
limitation of this study is that the empirical results regarding ymized and already in the public domain. All authors that I