were trustworthy, honest gossipers were trusted more than Of course, the above suppositions are limited by the fact
dishonest gossipers, but when Agents were untrustworthy, that we did not actually test the impact of social sanctions on
honest gossipers were if anything trusted less. At the same gossipers’ tendencies to lie, and we focused on trust beha-
time, participants’ subjective perceptions of honesty did posi- viours. In relation to the former, whether or not social
tively predict their gossiper trust. Together, this suggests that sanctions increase the honesty of gossip is likely to depend
people’s perceptions of gossipers’ honesty may inform their not only on the existence of such sanctions but also on gossi-
decisions of how to treat them but are not alone in doing pers’ beliefs that such sanctions are likely to occur (for
so. Both studies provide initial evidence that suggests that evidence that target’s beliefs can mitigate against gossip inac-
gossipers who share positive gossip, whether honestly or curacy, see [10]). In relation to the latter limitation, trust =
not, are trusted more than those who share negative decisions are informed by a range of considerations including >
gossip—despite the fact that participants appeared to be the Agents’ trustworthiness and the participants’ distribu- Ss
better at detecting positive lies. tional preferences; decisions to punish or reward may reflect =
This valence effect may in part reflect the fact that gossip a different set of considerations and could therefore be more — 5!
about previously trustworthy Agents precedes more profit- (or less) effective at promoting honest signalling in gossip. At =
able interactions and that people misattribute some part of a more fundamental level, conclusions are also limited by a =
their fortune to the gossiper. It may also reflect a tendency lack of power in study 2, which may be responsible for the = &
to make more favourable social judgements of gossipers somewhat inconsistent findings across the two studies. =
who say nice things about others. Indeed, we found that In short, we add to an increasing body of evidence that >
the positivity of the gossip predicted trust even after account- demonstrates that gossip can be an effective social mechan- s
ing for confidence in its truthfulness and the profitability of ism to sustain cooperation in large and/or dispersed Ss
the interaction. This finding is consistent with a body of populations where reputation information is hard to acquire S
work that has shown that gossipers who share more positive directly. We find that people are reasonably adept at
information about others are, generally, perceived to be more detecting dishonest gossip, but that the efficacy of the mech-
moral (and therefore trustworthy) than those who share anisms to discipline gossipers is hampered by an important
negative information, because they are seen to be trying to valence effect: people do not like the bearers of bad news,