nature of social interactions is relevant (e.g. the distinction archaeological record -
between intra/inter-band social interaction or migration) to The archaeological record holds extraordinary potential to =
evaluate the multi-scalar nature of human-environmental unravel long-term patterns of cultural changes. However, it 5!
interactions and cultural changes. requires careful consideration in terms of data limitations. =

To identify the impact of social connectivity on cultural The archaeological record is, by its very nature, incomplete: =
transmission, several metrics exist that can be used to charac- many materials have been lost owing to environmental  &
terize a network’s structural properties. One can classify degradation and the remains are conclusively a small part =
them into node and global metrics, and each can be used to of past human activities. This partial representation leads to
test a distinct facet of cultural transmission. These metrics a series of well-known analytical challenges when addressing s
are explained in detail elsewhere [56,57], but we will briefly traditional archaeological questions, and consequently when Ss
introduce here some examples in the context of cultural applying SNA [65]. Perhaps the most evident challenge is the =
evolution. First, we will focus on node metrics. The most fact that it is only possible to interpret the archaeological
well-known metrics are related to node centrality, which record if based on the temporal aggregation of material cul-
characterizes a node’s direct and indirect connections. For ture. Therefore, the reconstruction of prehistoric hunter-
example, strength determines the total intensity of links gatherer networks represents an aggregation of social connec-
among nodes and betweenness refers to the relative impor- tions, which leads to a higher emphasis on consistently
tance of intermediate nodes in indirectly connecting others. reproduced relationships across the period under study [13].
While strength centrality can be used to assess a node’s prob- The selection of appropriate archaeological proxies to
ability of obtaining and transmitting culture from its trace both changes in culture and social interaction patterns
immediate contacts, betweenness centrality is important to throughout space and time requires thorough consideration.
estimate cultural transmission to peripheral nodes, which Archaeological site locations and chronology provide the
would be otherwise disconnected. For example, in subdi- basis for building spatial and temporal networks whose
vided networks, indirect measures of centrality are of great structural properties can be compared. The analysis of spatial
relevance to indicate potential transmission across sub-net- networks can be significantly enriched when considering