biology to understand cultural transmission. These studies specifically, hunter-gatherer subsistence tools, hold enor-
highlight how information, like genes, is transmitted from mous potential to understand human behavioural diversity
parents to offspring (i.e. vertical transmission). Yet, unlike and cultural evolution.
genetic inheritance, information can also be transmitted The two main approaches used to infer evolutionary pro-
among unrelated peers (i.e. horizontal transmission) and/or cesses from the archaeological data are cladistics (ie. the
from one generation to another younger generation (i.e. obli- identification of the possible phylogenetic relationship
que transmission) [36]. The parallels between genetic and between artefacts) and artefact variability (i.e. the quantifi-
cultural inheritance have been well-established and are cation of artefact variation to identify learning biases) [11].
explained in detail elsewhere [37]. In this section, we focus Cladistics is used to identify the hypothetical relationship
on how researchers infer evolutionary processes from the between classes of prehistoric technology considering the
archaeological record. most recent common ancestry. This approach considers that
First, it is important to recall some of the components of artefacts will share specific characters (i.e. ‘homologous arte-
cultural evolutionary theory. In a nutshell, cultural evolution facts’) and that new structures and functions arise from the
rests on the creation of new traits (i.e. innovation), on their modification of existing traits. For example, O’Brien et al.
transmission through social contacts (e.g. through imitation [42] used Clovis point manufacture to reconstruct relation-
and active teaching) and on forces that may include (e.g. ships among eastern North American Palaeoindian points.
learning mistakes) or reduce (i.e. biased transmission) trait At the time, it was unclear whether the continental-wide
variability. As previously explained, forms of cultural occurrence of fluted-point forms represented a single cultural

transmission includes horizontal, vertical and oblique expression. Results indicated that much of the variation in the


form (e.g. tang-tip shape and outer tang angle) was related approaches currently applied by evolutionary archaeologists | 4 |

to the hafting elements of a point, but other characters did are based on the identification of material culture similarities