agreement, noun case, number and gender, or verbal tense
[21,33-37], even when they have analogous complex struc-
tures in their first language [38]. Changes introduced by
adult learners may spread to others in the population.
When native language users have frequent interactions with
non-natives, they have a higher probability of adopting aa ;
[23,39,40] and amplifying [41] simplified forms, and also of ABSL [47]. Each sign in ABSL appears to be built not from
producing simpler ‘foreigner directed speech’ [31,42]. a recombination of phonological elements that robustly reoc-
Early in development, children also show a preference for cur across a wide set of distinct lexical items, but rather asa
simpler, rule-based items over exceptional or irregular ones in non-decomposable whole, demonstrating that duality of pat-
language [43]. As they develop, they gradually learn and terning is not an inescapable consequence of the existence of
adopt the complexities in their culture and language. This a communication system. an ,
indicates that all learners initially tend to simplify their lin- The fact that combinatoriality is so widespread, but not
guistic input. Importantly, this has different consequences obligatory, poses two interesting challenges for evolutionary
depending on whether the learners are adults or children. linguistics: what are the origins of combinatoriality? And
While children’s short-lived simplifications do not normally why does it sometimes not appear? In the next section, we
spread to the population, adults, who seldom reach native- set out our hypotheses for answering these questions,
like proficiency, introduce simpler structures during their before turning to a computational model testing these
interactions with native language users. We will return to hypotheses in §3.
this point later as we discuss the unusual cases where chil-
dren, as learners, do contribute to the spread of linguistic

structure in a population. 2. Hypotheses

Of particular relevance here is work that aims to observe