@
"Td 2
5° ; ° interval I
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
ratio complexity Figure 5. Projection of a three-dimensional histogram of convergent relative
Figure 4. The relation between variability of winding rate in the phase- winding rates of three independent circle maps, treated here as intervals of a
attractive circle map and complexity level of its driving frequency, the thythm. Sides of the triangle, each on the scale from zero to one, represent
ratio 2=p:q, for a selected parameter configuration, K= 0.6, A=0.5, proportion relative to the full rhythm which is the concatenation of the three
o=0.02. Each trial, circular standard deviation was used to analyse the circle maps. The heat map is for probability density. Crosses mark locations
increments Wn = [0,41 — 9] mod 1, after converting them to the necess- where the corresponding rates reduce to simple ratios. The driving frequencies
ary scale by multiplying by 360. Note that the multimodality at higher of each of the three circle maps were random in the first trial of a simulation
complexity levels is not of the same nature as in figure 3 but is related but at the beginning of each new block they were updated from the last
to the fact that very different initial conditions can fall on the same tree effective winding numbers from the previous block, eventually converging
level when approximating random stimuli to ratios. on simple integer ratios. (Online version in colour.)
properties of the tapping study, namely, increasing variability parameters such as number of taps and iterations were set
with stimulus level and scaling (see electronic supplementary after those found in behavioural experiments reported else-
material, figure S8). where [4]. The trials consisted of five blocks of simulated
tapping, each block consisting of ten repetitions of the
rhythm. The first block started with a set of three random
rotation numbers from a non-uniform distribution in the
range Q,,€(0,3], n= {1,2,3}, and a mode’ at one. The effective
winding numbers W,, of the independent oscillators at the
A theoretical approach is stronger if it generalizes easily end of a block were carried over as , in the next block.
beyond the specific task it was developed for originally. We We simulated trials, N= 10,000, using a hand-picked set of
considered the iterated single-hand tapping of rhythms parameters, K=1.1, A=0.8, o= 0.005, that exhibited reason-