(rather than strictly hierarchical leadership), they also
showed that string quartet performance at least partly

involves adaptation to the presumptive leading role, that is, lead drummers and accompanists. In Mali, musicians tend to
the first violin [13,30,31]. This stands in contrast with the con- be aware of, and pay respect to, their relative seniority. This a
sistently minimal adaptation to the lead drum and was relevant for the two jembe players in each trio ensemble, s
(conversely) consistently strong adaptation to the accompani- even though the degree of differentiation (range of variability) Ss
ment roles we found in jembe performance. This speaks of was small. For example, Sedu Keita, the player of Jembe 2 in &

two qualitatively different approaches to ensemble synchro- Ensemble/Lineup 1A (born 1964) did his apprenticeship with
nization. Thus, our results underscore what can be gained Drisa Kone, the player of Jembe 1 (born 1960) four decades
from studying participants and cultural performances or arte- ago, but in the past 30 years both of them wor ked independently
facts beyond the laboratory in the Western World. Focusin as master drummers. In each of the four recording sessions (one

y y : . 8 per ensemble), the more senior of the two jembe players in a trio
solely on WEIRD groups (Western, Educated, Industrial,

. . ~ would start out, by self-selection, with playing the lead drum
Rich and Democratic [49,50]) limits what one can observe role (Jembe 1), which is always (both live and in studio situ-

and understand regarding human creativity and ability. ations) placed in the centre of the ensemble. After the first take,
A first step towards overcoming this cultural sampling the two jembe players changed seats, instruments and musical
bias is the integration of humanistic methods (in our case, roles (figure 1a). Thereafter, the two jembe players continued
ethnomusicological thinking and expertise) into scientific with role-switching after each of the 16-22 takes that we recorded
research. The ethnomusicologist member in our team of per ensemble. This systematic alternation of roles was motivated