Converging evidence suggests that the core timing network resets on every pulse period cycle. Thus, the progressive
comprised by the cortico-thalamic-basal ganglia skeletomotor pattern of activation starts with a group of cells, migrates to
circuit (CTBGc) constitutes the neural underpinning of an other cells during the timed interval, stops with the last
internal pulse representation [117-119]. Specifically, the group of cells and simultaneously is initialized for the next pro-
medial premotor cortex (MPC), composed of the supple- duced interval with the previous initial set of cells [70,125]. The
mentary motor cortex proper and the presupplementary neural cyclic evolution and resetting are more evident when
motor area, is a key area for the conformation of an internal the time-varying activity of MPC neurons is projected into a
pulse signal [71]. Although the neural basis of these proces- low-dimensional state space (figure 2c) [70]. The population
sing steps is still fairly unknown, the Rhesus monkey is a neural trajectories show the following properties. First, they
great model to study the dynamical interplay between have circular dynamics that form a regenerating loop for
bottom-up and top-down signals, using the simultaneous every produced interval. Second, the periodic trajectories
high-density single-cell recordings at different node levels increase in amplitude as a function of the input period. These
of the beat-based timing audiomotor circuit [75]. In fact, period-dependent increments in the trajectory radius are the
critical observations have already been made in the primate result of a larger number of neurons within a moving bump
MPC regarding the representation of a metric pulse during [70]. Finally, the population neural trajectories converge in
rhythmic tapping. similar state space at tapping times, resetting the pulse-based

A key property of MPC neurons during rhythmic tapping clock at this point [70]. Hence, the convergence to this neural
to a metronome is the relative representation of pulse timing. attractor state could be the internal representation of the
Cells that encode elapsed or remaining time for a tap pulse that is transmitted as a phasic top-down predictive

show up-down ramping profiles that span the produced signal to the auditory areas before each tap [70,126]. In


addition, the population state during pulse-based predictive on top-down intention. This is evidenced by finger-tapping