were not elicited in macaque monkeys as they passively lis- frequency tuning curve of the involved neural audiomotor
tened to the same auditory stimuli, indicating that their network [86].

ability to map internal metric pulses onto sensory inputs
may be restricted to the most fundamental level 1 [60].
It remains possible that non-human primates could learn

(c) Level 3: mapping internal metric pulse with weakly

to perform level-2-like mappings with appropriate training periodic input
procedures (see [107]), which represents an exciting challenge While many musical rhythms contain prominent represen-
for future studies. In fact, recent findings support the notion tation of specific pulses in their physical structure, this is not
of certain level 2 abilities in monkeys. For example, electro- a general rule. In fact, it is quite common to encounter rhythms
physiological recordings in the basal ganglia indicate that where no clear periodicity directly stands out [101,157,158].
monkeys can chunk the beginning and end of isochronous These rhythmic inputs have often been treated as inducing in
and randomly timed (reactive) tapping sequences [154]. some ways weaker internal representation of metric pulses,
Moreover, preliminary observations of EEG 8 oscillations (fre- or it has been assumed that metric pulses are not mapped
quency range 12-20Hz) in macaques reveal magnitude onto such inputs at all [4,21,159-161]. Contrary to these
dynamics that indicate a spontaneous grouping process by views, humans seem capable of mapping a stable internal rep-
two intervals during passive listening to isochronous stimu- resentation of metric pulses onto such weakly periodic inputs
lus sequences [155]. Nevertheless, more research in the (example provided in figure 1b), as observed in spontaneous
animals’ natural setting is needed to document whether finger tapping paradigms [45,81,83,85,86,91,162].
different species of birds, cetaceans and monkeys show spon- Over the past 10 years, a growing number of studies inves-
taneous abilities to perform a level-2 mapping. The use of a tigated neural responses to weakly periodic inputs using EEG
similar research framework across species with the new combined with frequency-tagging (for a review, see [29]). This