making it particularly likely that they will pick-up behaviours could have led to spontaneous, sporadic BPS. >
that humans find amusing’. A problem with this proposal is In light of this suggestion, a recent study by Hattori & =~
that dogs bond strongly with their carers and are highly sensi- Tomonaga [150,151] is of particular interest. These researchers Ss
tive to social reward [139], yet do not show spontaneous BPS to found that enculturated chimpanzees exposed to complex S
music [56,118]. rhythms made rhythmic rocking and swaying movements.

A focus on the intrinsic rewards of temporal prediction in These movements were not entrained to the beat and occurred
sequence processing bears a resemblance to a suggestion by whether the rhythms were beat-based or not, thus differing
Merker [140] that vocal learners have an intrinsic motivation from BPS in important ways. Nevertheless, the movements
for high-fidelity copying of sounds, because such copying is seemed to reflect positive engagement, were made without
needed for vocal learning and is typically not reinforced by any reinforcement and did not resemble distress responses
immediate external rewards. Merker refers to this motivational or stereotyped behaviours sometimes seen in poorly treated
mechanism as a ‘conformal motive’ and suggests that in par- animals. Furthermore, despite the fact that the chimpanzees
rots this motivation to copy could extend to non-vocal body were free to leave the testing area at any time, one male chim-
movements, leading them to imitate humans moving to the panzee stayed closer to the sound source when the sounds
beat of music [105]. Consistent with this view, parrots can were on versus off, suggesting attraction to the stimulus. Fur-
imitate non-vocal movements [141]. However, an intrinsic thermore, this chimpanzee also made a few different types of
motivation to imitate non-vocal movements also seems to rhythmic movements in response to rhythmic sounds, includ-
occur in chimpanzees. For example, a juvenile chimpanzee ing head bobbing and hand clapping. When combined with
observing an adult crack a nut with an anvil stone and pound- field observations of chimpanzee ‘rain dancing’ (ritualized
ing stone will imitate the adult’s actions without any movements in response to loud sounds such as rain or water-
reinforcement and often without success [142]. Yet despite falls [152]), this study suggests that a predisposition to move
this intrinsic motivation to imitate movements, among the rhythmically to loud, complex sound patterns may have
cases of enculturated chimpanzees raised by humans and been in place in human ancestors prior to the evolution of
exposed to music during their development, there are no high vocal learning. In the framework of the rVLH, this