to provide fruitful additional ways to make synchrony stat- necessarily well characterized by commonly used measures
istics more detailed and more useful across many fields. In based on the coefficient of variation. Total abundance can exhi-
many fields, techniques for quantifying the synchrony of sig- bit patterns of skewness which correspond to increased
nals have historically been crude, but have recently become probabilities of crashes, or explosions to high values, that are
more detailed, thereby enhancing progress. For instance, readily interpretable as instability. Thus the original variance
one paper in this special issue develops newly detailed ratio approach, whereby patterns of species’ synchronous or
frequency-specific descriptions of a kind of synchrony, and compensatory dynamics are assessed using covariance tools
then uses them to make new inferences about musical and and then related to community variability measured using a
rhythmic behaviour in humans [37]. The examples of [38] coefficient of variation, is probably inadequate, by itself. Species
on the interactive vocalizations of primates are also enhanced relationships can actually mitigate or accentuate community
by a frequency-specific perspective: fig. 1C of [38] shows variability differentially for community crashes or explosions

coordination of not only the timings but also the pitches of to high values, a fact which was apparently not previously


recognized. In other words, species relationships can mitigate Authors’ contributions. $.G. and D.C.R. designed the study, developed the | 12 |
explosions of total abundance to high values, while simul- theory and statistical tools, wrote the code, and analysed the data. All

taneously exacerbating the tendency to crash to low values; or authors contributed to writing and revising. All authors gave final s
: : approval for publication and agree to be held accountable for the a
vice versa. Our new skewness ratio approach complements work performed therein. 3
the variance ratio to reveal a more multidimensional nature of Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests. 3
species relationships and their effects on community variability. Funding. The authors were partly supported by US National Science =
Overall, our work has begun a new and more flexible approach Foundation grant nos. 1714195 and 2023474, the James  &
to synchrony, compensatory dynamics and their influence on S. McDonnell Foundation, and the California Department of Fish =