The second method we use is the ParaFitGlobal method of generate large matrices and is thus possible to apply all three
Legendre et al., which evaluates the evidence for coevolution datasets. This statistic is very similar to that of Legendre et al.
between parasites and hosts [28]. This method works by testing 28]. It is also possible to compute the MSE under the assumption
for congruence between host and parasite phylogenetic trees, that d;,=d,=0 (star phylogeny) for all three models. We were
that is, it tests whether hosts and their parasites have equivalent therefore able to compute these statistics for all three datasets
positions in their respective trees. Perfect congruence would and use the same set of permutations described above to evalu-
signal tight codiversification of specialist parasites with their ate whether their values are different from a null distribution
hosts, whereas no congruence would signal that host-parasite based on randomly permuted host-parasite associations. How-
associations are formed randomly with respect to the evolution- ever, it was not possible to find the maximum-likelihood
ary history of each species. As such, the null hypothesis that this values of d;, and dy.
method is testing is that the evolution of hosts and parasites are The fourth method we explore is from Krasnov ef al. [31],
independent. This method was one of the first developed that which first estimates the modularity of the network formed
could account for the fact that many parasites can infect more by host-parasite associations: in a host-parasite network with
than one host, and that hosts are often infected by many para- high modularity, one would find clusters of hosts and parasites
sites. ParaFitGlobal computes a ‘fourth corner’ statistic [24] that interact mainly with one another, and not with other clusters
based on the product of matrices describing (i) the presence/ of hosts and parasites. Modules are computed using the cluster_
absence of each host-parasite association; (ii) the parasite phylo- walktrap function in the R package igraph [37]. It then estimates
genetic tree; and (iii) the host phylogenetic tree. To determine whether the hosts and parasites that belong to the same module
whether this statistic has a value that is different from that tend to be closely related by calculating the correlation between
expected by chance, the presence/absence data is randomly per- co-membership in a module and _ phylogenetic distance.
muted using the same set of permutations described above (in R, Essentially, the method evaluates whether, across all hosts (and
following Hadfield et al. [32]). parasites), the pairwise phylogenetic distance between hosts (or

The third and fourth methods, in contrast with the first two, parasites) within a single module is less than the pairwise
provide additional information that can help us to determine phylogenetic distance between hosts (or parasites) in separate