wherein vocal learning is an important prerequisite for voice sive and panoptical view of the many phenomena involved =
modulation. Clearly, understanding commonalities in the in voice production and perception is essential. We believe = 5
acoustics of animal vocalizations, including comparisons that this necessarily must include the study of dynamic ==
between humans and our closest living primate relatives, can within-individual voice modulation, not least because vocal =
provide insight into how speech evolved. Grawunder et al. control is a necessary prerequisite for speech. Increasing dia- Ss
[20] (critical topics (i) and (iii)) show that the acoustic par- logue and bridging the gap between disciplines is = =
ameters of chimpanzee hoos, grunts, screams and barks are paramount; it is only through interdisciplinary collaboration — 5!
sufficient to discriminate the four call types, and that discrimi- that we will come to find a common terminology and defi- >
nation is similar when only using movements of vocal nitions, ask the right questions, elaborate adequate and =
articulators, coded from video data. Their results show that viable methodologies, and see the bigger picture to, ulti- 3
while chimpanzees have functional use of a relatively wide mately, develop and test mature and robust hypotheses that =
vowel space, including [u] and [a], which shows considerable encompass the wide range of complex phenomena involved S
overlap with that of humans, they nevertheless do not produce in vocal modulation. In fact, by examining the biological ~~
high front vowel-like sounds like [i] that are common in human and behavioural mechanisms and functions of vocal control, Ss
speech. The authors argue that chimpanzee vowel space use comparing across human populations and nonhuman animal &
appears larger than that of monkey species examined to date, species, researchers are already beginning to reveal the aston-
suggesting that expansion towards a human-like vowel space ishing ubiquity and social consequences of within-individual
continued through hominoid evolution. modulation of vocal signals, thereby providing new insight
Closing this theme issue with a look towards the exciting into the evolution of speech, language, song and music.
but risky future of digital voice resynthesis, Guerouaou et al. Our goal is for this thematic issue to further inspire
[21] (critical topics (iv) and (v)) address the ethics of expressive researchers from diverse fields to look beyond traditional dis-
vocal ‘deep-fakes’. In an experimental ethics study, participants ciplinary boundaries, helping to cement a long-lasting,
showed a high and broad acceptability of possible applications interdisciplinary foundation for the field of voice modulation.
of expressive voice transformation technologies that alter the
real vocal parameters of vocalizers, with only one general Data accessibility. This introductory article has no additional data.