low pressure high pressure
by seed predators by seed predators

— disturbance frequency +» — disturbance frequency >»
— disturbance predictability » — disturbance predictability »
+ age of sexual maturation + age of sexual maturation

Figure 6. Conceptual hypothesis for interactions between features of a disturbance regime, predator satiation and selection of masting traits. Darker colours
represent larger evolutionary advantages and stronger selection for masting under the environmental prediction hypothesis. (Online version in colour.)

persistence and recovery. It is rare that these disturbances longevity [118]. Under such conditions, serotinous species
have selective consequences relevant to the fitness of future take advantage from severe, stand-replacing fires providing
generations. In fact, the success of masting depends on optimal post-fire recruitment conditions for the abundant
the capacity of the plant species to produce large seed seed rain following the event (e.g. [119]). Masting species, on
crops in the immediate post-disturbance period, when an the contrary, are advantaged most under mixed-severity
optimal recruitment window is open. This implies the need fire regimes, where low-to-medium severity fire allows
for seed-bearing individuals to survive on site, or at least fire-resistant, seed-bearing individuals to survive in situ.
within the seed dispersal distance of the species. Accordingly, The EPH does not need to be an exclusive explanation for
disturbance severity and extent should allow some masting the evolutionary emergence of masting. We expect selection
individuals to survive and/or reproduce. Models developed of masting traits by disturbances to be stronger if additional
for animal populations suggest that synchronous reproduc- benefits of masting are operating, such as predator satiation
tion could evolve when the spatial scale of disturbances is [120]. If seedling survivorship is small, the parent will have
much smaller than the range of the breeding population. to produce its offspring every year, regardless of disturbance
On the contrary, asynchronous breeding is expected if dis- events. By contrast, if seedling survivorship is sufficiently
turbed areas are similar or larger than those occupied by high, such as under high selective pressure by predators