found that precipitation in the year of acorn maturation best production than trees that had burned in different years.
predicted seed production even in the 2-year oak Q. inopina, This may largely be a physiological effect of the time that is
despite considering weather as far as 3 years before acorns needed for post-fire sprouting and recovery of flower and
ripened. Abrahamson & Layne [36], who used 24 years of acorn production under conditions of elevated nutrient avail-
data from a nearby location, found that February precipi- ability in the soils [53]. Abrahamson & Layne [36] discuss that
tation in the year before fructification (i.e. 1.5 years before both white and red oaks initiate floral buds on ramets in the
ripening) best predicted Q. inopina acorn crops. However, year of the fire. For the white oaks (Q chapmanii and Q. gemi-
that study sampled oaks in plots that had been unburned nata), a total of 2 years are required for post-fire seed
for decades as a result of purposeful fire-exclusion. We production, while the red oak (Q. inopina) requires 3 years
found that years since fire was the dominant predictor of until acorn production sets in, as reflected in figure 2. We
acorn crops, whose annual variation was then mediated by argue that these physiologically determined seed production
precipitation (figure 3c). It is, therefore, possible that the recovery times are the main factor synchronizing seed pro-
larger, unburned Q. inopina ramets in the Abrahamson & duction of the three species. This is corroborated by the fact
Layne [36] study responded differently to precipitation that Q. inopina, which requires one more year for recovery
from the recently burned ramets in our study. Importantly, of acorn production, showed stronger synchrony than the
both analyses found that precipitation, rather than tempera- other two species.
ture, affected seed production of all three species. While Such effects of fire history on reproduction can align the
total annual precipitation has not changed over the study flowering efforts of individuals, thus providing the economy
period (data not shown), the timing has shifted to result in of scale that is considered a fitness benefit of mast flowering
drier springs, reducing available water during critical periods and seeding [2,54]. Interestingly, this effect was only found
for acorn production (electronic supplementary material, when analysing the timing of seed production by using the

figure S6B). Importantly, climate change affects both weather checkerboard score, but not when considering the number

