flowering. By contrast, under environmental prediction, if

of masti ng an individual plant produces seed based on cues that predict
When considering the role of climate modes in the evolution a favourable environment for seedlings, this would be
of masting, we should ascertain whether these modes have enough to increase fitness. Notably, climate modes have the
existed and maintained their properties (i.e. autocorrelation, potential to let both emerge.
periodicity and trends) for timeframes relevant to the evol- A major implication of the link between climate modes
ution of long-lived plants. There is evidence that modes of and reproduction in plants is the spatial extent of synchrony
climate variability such as ENSO have been acting for evol- in flowering, pollination and seed production, which is
utionary-relevant time periods [93,94]. For example, annular usually larger than a population. EOSs of seed production
modes of variability (such as the SAM) are observed in extre- emerge within a given range of extents in spatial synchrony.
mely idealized climate numerical simulations, pointing to the In some cases, it is sufficient for trees to synchronize pollina-
fact that such modes of variability are an intrinsic feature of tion within a stand [100], while avoidance of predation by
the Earth’s climate system that have been existing for a long nomadic vertebrates requires a ‘regional escape’ strategy by
time [95]. ‘community-wide’ masting [1]. In the present study, we

We highlight how climate modes drive reproduction and found evidence that climate modes synchronize reproduction
recruitment success not only directly, but also indirectly, by over different spatial extents, covering the full range of scales
forcing lagged but in-phase ecosystem dynamics conducive needed for known EOSs to emerge. While adaptive benefits
to favourable conditions for offspring. By synergistically at smaller extents (i.e. individual, stand and population)
aligning the proximate mechanisms that cause masting have been extensively studied [97,100], benefits emerging
and the processes that improve offspring fitness (figure 3), from synchrony at larger scales are understudied and
climate modes make favourable environmental conditions mostly discussed in relation to pollen coupling [98,99]. How-
more ‘predictable’ by plants [30], a hypothesis known ever, synchrony at scales larger than a population, peculiar of
as ‘environmental prediction’ [79,96]. Environmental pre- the climate mode-masting relationship, might imply adaptive