The acoustic features of a couple’s speech to each other tial mates will more often be comparatively lower in mate
predict—and may influence—relationship outcomes, as quality than they are. This raises the broader question of
well. Nasir et al. [107] recorded hundreds of conversations whether traits related to the speaker's relative mate value
from over 100 couples taken during marriage therapy ses- interact with states related to romantic interest in the same
sions over 2 years and examined their acoustic features. way that relative social status interacts with engagement in
Some of the acoustic parameters measured included f,, inten- intrasexual competition to predict vocal modulation [54,75].
sity, jitter, shimmer and other aspects of vocal patterns that The studies that we have considered here point to exciting
can indicate moments of high emotion. They also had tracked and promising areas for future research. For example, under- = =
the couples’ marital status for 5 years and found that it was standing how voices are modulated within and across social >
possible to predict with nearly 78% accuracy whether contexts is likely to be aided by clearer insight into how Ss
spouses would have an improved or worsened relationship acoustic parameters are physically linked to such interperso- =:
based on the tone of voice used when speaking to their part- nal variables as size, strength and health and how those = 5'
ner. In fact, the algorithm that they created from the vocal parameters are perceived. From the receiver standpoint, =
samples was better at predicting marital success of couples vocal modulation during mating and competitive contexts =
with serious marital issues than behavioural descriptors of appears to be readily discernable, and listeners prefer voice = &
the therapy sessions provided by relationship experts. samples directed towards attractive individuals and mates. “©
This research team followed up by investigating whether The ability to detect romantic interest through voice may be S
the acoustics of spoken interactions of clinically distressed adaptive not only for identifying interested potential mates, — ~
spouses could provide information about therapy outcome but also in the assessment of relationship status and mainten- Ss
assessments [108]. Acoustical characteristics during conversa- ance. Vocal shifts are also effective in influencing perceptions =
tions, such as vocal intonation and intensity, were analysed of speakers’ rank and formidability critical for intrasexual
both independently and in relation to each spouse and competition. However, more work is needed to address
were used as cues for predicting therapy outcomes. Predic- how receiver psychology (i.e. what a receiver finds easy to
tions from vocal acoustics were found to be comparable or detect, discriminate and/or remember) influences the
superior to those obtained from behavioural coding by design of human vocal signals (see [20]).