has not been tested. lization, which in their case was a scream. But many of the
Related work by the same team sought to explore the other ‘incorrect’ vocalizations might constitute a legitimate
possibility of concept acquisition through the experience in (i.e. correct or corresponding) response to the situation. For
a choice-from-array experiment [51]. This study included a example, depending on the animal, perhaps screaming is
different small-scale population (Hadza), as well as partici- not appropriate—many indigenous societies have quite

pants from the USA and China. The researchers identified specific cultural knowledge regarding how to engage with


animals. Some Himba subjects might believe that not making to the forces of language and culture (e.g. [62]). But both

any sound at all could be the most appropriate response. approaches are theoretically approaching emotion signalling
If so, the fact that Himba subjects did not pair a scream at the wrong level of analysis to discover evolved design fea-
with the dangerous animal context could be a valid and tures. Selection has shaped our emotion programmes, and all
justifiable response, and would not demonstrate that Himba associated multimodal signals (including vocalizations), to
lack a concept of fear or an understanding of the emotional solve a large suite of adaptive social communication pro-
significance of a scream. blems. On this view, each domain of emotional signalling

As an example of research in which participants were asked will have its own computational problem space which can
to make judgements for which there were objectively correct include many constraints on any given modality in both pro-
answers, not formulated or constructed by the experimenters, duction and perception, as well as complex multimodal
consider a study that examined vocal emotion recognition in integration that operates in tandem during highly variable
the Shuar, an Amazonian hunter-horticulturalist society [56]. social contexts. For emotional signalling systems to evolve, = =
Vocal emotions were elicited in speakers by having them some universality is necessary, making at least some aspects >
look at pictured emotional faces and then emulate the emotions of the constructionist viewpoint untenable. A fundamental — _