comparison purposes, we carried out the same PGLS analyses not fully explained by high-frequency echolocation signals. By
after removing all VPL species (N = 58) from the original dataset contrast, table 3, which includes all non-VPL outliers from the
(remaining = 106 species). The regressions carried out on this PGLS regressions on the full dataset, shows that the majority
‘VPL-free’ dataset showed similar results (i.e. significant nega- of outliers are downward outliers (37/49), suggesting that out-
tive correlations between acoustic measures and body size) for liers in non-VPL clades produce lower call frequencies than __
MinDE, MaxDF and MeanDF (see electronic supplementary expected. In addition to the results and insights described = =
material, table S3 and figure S1). A notable difference with above, running VPL-free PGLS regressions (i.e. without clades Ry
respect to models fitted using the full dataset appears with Ran- presently thought to comprise VPL species) allowed identifying = =
geDF, here, the VPL-free (as opposed to the full) model also further allometric outliers and, therefore, a scan for further =~
showed a significant negative correlation (electronic supplemen- species with potential VPL abilities (see electronic supplemen- =
tary material, table S3). This suggests that adding VPL species to tary material, table $4). A)
the dataset cancels out an overall RangeDF-body size associ- S
ation, and is likely driven by the fact that vocalizations from SS
VPL species have larger frequency ranges. This is supported (f) A brief overview of outlier categories identified from 3
both by VPL species vocalizing with larger frequency ranges . . SB
(based on raw RangeDF values corrected for body size: mean our phylogenetic generalized least square &
RangeDF +s.e. in VPL species = 151.16 + 90.27 Hz g"; mean regressions
RangeDF+s.e. in non-VPL species =127.4+ 47.45 Hz g™'; From tables 2 and 3 summarizing outlier cases, five main cat-
Mann-Whitney Li-test: W= 1309, p < 0.001) and by significantly egories emerge across species. The first two categories
higher signed residuals for VPL than non-VPL species (table 1). contain a large number of species and, combined, most out-
Similarly, adding VPL species weakens acoustic allometric liers. They conform to the results described above, with VPL
relationships for MaxDF and MeanDEF, which both showed species being mainly upward outliers (category 1; N = 28/33)
more negative estimates (i.e. steeper slopes) in the VPL-free and non-VPL species being mainly downward outliers (cat-
models. This is likely due to VPL species vocalizing with egory 2; N=16/25). Anatomical adaptations could be a
higher MaxDF and MeanDF than non-VPL species, which is parsimonious explanation for non-VPL species being down-