to increases in vocal effort [26]. Our results showed that the acoustic-phonetic modifications made by the ‘lead talker’
two older groups (50-80 year olds) increased vocal effort in when communication was made challenging. As such, our
the presence of both energetic/modulation and informational results might not be fully reflective of real-life communicative
masking, and the youngest group of children (8-12 year olds) situations, as exemplified by the communication effort frame-
showed this pattern in the presence of informational masking work [10]. For example, in communicative settings, the roles
only. Other age groups did not show increased vocal effort, at of a ‘talker’ and a ‘listener’ are often fluid. When interacting
least as has been defined here. with another person, especially in challenging conditions,
We have shown similar age-related effects, using the same talkers are constantly monitoring (i.e. listening to) their own
measure, in our previous work on clear speech strategies, in speech as well as feedback from their conversational partner
that children (9-14 years) and older adults with age-related (the listener) in order to optimize communicative success.
hearing loss (65-85 years) tend to primarily increase vocal This enables them to quickly react to changes in the external
effort while younger adults vary in the strategies they adopt and internal perceptual demands and to increase/decrease
to increase the intelligibility of their speech [22,23]. The fact investment of vocal and listening effort according to these
that, here, we see increased vocal effort already in the 50+ demands. At the same time, the listener is constantly moni-
age range and in individuals with normal hearing is likely to toring the incoming speech while planning and executing a
do with the differences in experimental set-ups. In our previous verbal response. Therefore, both the talker and the listener
studies, communication between the dyads was made maxi- are simultaneously engaging resources for vocal effort and
mally difficult by simulating the effects of severe-to-profound listening effort, which are also prone to fluctuate as a function
hearing loss ora cochlear implant in the conversational partner of ‘communicative success’ during the course of a conversa-
while the lead talker was hearing their partner normally. In the tion. For example, in the current study, the lack of evidence
current study, we placed both members of the pair in back- for vocal effort in some of the groups does not necessarily
ground noise, and although the overall level of the noise is mean effortless communication, as the other groups may
relatively moderate, it can impose different perceptual and cog- have invested in increasing listening effort instead. Partial
nitive demands for younger children and older adults evidence for this comes from the ratings obtained from
regardless of hearing acuity. For example, it has been shown adults over the lifespan (18-80 years) that showed that, gen-