might also play a role in infant-directed speech (IDS) [7] around 40000 years ago [20,21], However, music does not
and perhaps even in adult-directed language. depend for its existence on the construction of instruments,

In this paper, we first outline the problems posed by the as we can sing, dance and use our bodies or other natural
study of the origins of music, including possible human uni- objects as drums and so we can infer that musical ability
versals and the relationship between language and music. We significantly pre-dates this time.

then review the evidence regarding the evolution of music,
addressing the challenges posed by the evolutionary study

of music and reviewing the key current ideas on this topic. (a) The question of music universals =
In so doing, we consider both animal precursors and theories The universality of human music is critical to the study of © =
for the evolution of human acoustic communication, as well musicality. If musical production is in fact a universal  _
as their limitations. Finally, we propose a theoretical model phenomenon, then the idea of it having a purely cultural =
for the evolution of musicality, which provides an explana- origin would be hard to defend, suggesting instead some = 5'
tory and testable framework for explaining newly emerged form of biological antecedent. a
findings in human acoustic communication. Beyond IDS, This is not to say that culture is unimportant. Unques- =
recent research has shown that contextual vocal modulation tionably, cultural distinctiveness and variation define 3
is important (reviewed in the previous issue (part I) by individual features, social roles, meanings and conceptions =
Hughes & Puts [8]). For example, fundamental frequency of music. As Cross [22] points out, within the humanities, x
variability (commonly measured as foSD or foCV) is modu- including main trends in musicology and ethnomusicol- s
lated and plays an important role in courtship contexts (e.g. ogy, there is broad consensus in the view of music as a Ss
[9-11]). However, this key role of fo variability is not apparent cultural construction. This view is supported precisely by  S
in non-courtship scenarios, including authority ranking the enormous cultural variation of musical or music-like
relationships (e.g. [12,13]), perhaps indicating context-specific phenomena in human societies. Moreover, the notion of