Nevertheless, language itself is of little use in the context of candidates to show musicality-like skills. Indeed, social com-
interactions with pre-linguistic infants, leaving a domain in plexity could be positively associated with more complex
which musicality remained essential, being uniquely able to communicative systems [200,201], including both vocal diver-
communicate and influence emotional states. For this to sity and flexibility (e.g. [202,203]; see also [153]). For example,
occur, however, musicality needs to be present in both infants bonobo (Pan paniscus) vocal interactions respect temporal
and adults, allowing the cognitive musical abilities to be tules like turn-taking, akin to those of human conversations
employed for other purposes in which it remained influential 88]. Regarding infant—-parent bonding, pygmy marmosets,
(e.g. group cohesion and social identity). Cebuella pygmuaea, a socially complex species with cooperative
Although ancestral primate societies lived in groups, and breeding, have been shown to use a form of ‘babbling’ during
social cohesion and bonding were likely achieved by other infancy that decreases as they grow older [204], and such bab-
means (similar to other primates; e.g. [137-139]), parent— bling in both infants and juveniles is associated with
infant communication became fundamental because of increased social interactions with other group members
increasing altriciality, and the resulting prolonged parental 205]. In fact, cooperative breeding has been argued to pro-
care and need to acquire more and more complex information mote the evolution of language ([206,207]; see also [86]).
via social learning. In short, we are suggesting that musicality However, perhaps the most interesting example comes from
is based on pre-existing abilities (see also [136]), that musical- gelada baboons, Theropithecus gelada, a species that lives in
ity itself pre-dates music, and that its primary and original a less complex ecological environment, but a more complex
purpose was not music (music being, in this view, an epiphe- social environment, than the closely related chacma baboons,
nomenon). This model for the evolution of musicality is Papio ursinus, and has more vocal complexity [208]. Geladas,
summarized in figure 1. in fact, have been shown to synchronize their calls [209] and

use both rhythm and melody in their vocal interactions [210].
In human language contexts, musicality seems to be

(b) Implications and tests required to perceive fy contours, of which variability in funda-