Among musical sounds, the effect of the three manipula- tic’ view, prevalent for instance in the musicology of the great
tions was generally larger for a cappella singing voice than for virtuoso performers of the nineteenth century [47], of singing
non-musical vocalizations (speech or scream): this was true voice as a disembodied musical instrument bearing no natural
for the effect of smile, vocal tremor and, to some extent, relation to the singer’s body [48]. The present results suggest,
vocal roughness on valence (but not on arousal). It is possible on the contrary, that singing and non-vocal musical sounds
that the acoustical properties of singing voice [42] benefit the can both be processed as if they were spoken voice, mobilizing
perception of the three cues used here. For instance, musical cognitive mechanisms linked to the detection and interpretation
melody in the contemporary commercial music genres con- of physiological phenomena. The violin stimuli used here were
sidered here features discrete and relatively stable pitch artificially constructed using voice-specific gestures and one
series which, as opposed to the continuously changing may question their ecological validity, ic. whether musicians
pitch of speech intonation [43], may facilitate the processing can actually manipulate these aspects of their sounds. Many
of slowly-changing pitch modulations in vocal tremor. elements suggest they can. First, there are well-described acous-
Further, the fact that sung vowels and consonants are typi- tic similarities between the human voice and violin [49,50],
cally longer than in their normal occurrence in speech [44] which has a similar frequency range and a formant structure
may also allow the faster accumulation of spectral /harmonic exhibiting vowel-like qualities [51], leading many to describe
information to register changes like smile or vocal roughness. violin playing as sounding either male (‘He had a stroke so
Such an explanation may be conceptually related to the sweet, and made it speak like the voice of a man’ [52, p. 154])
‘super-expressive voice hypothesis’, a prominent theory of or female (‘There are in the music of the violin—if one does
musical emotions stating that, because of their wider pitch not see the instrument itself [...]}—accents which are so closely
and dynamic range, music may be processed as amplified akin to those of certain contralto voices, that one has the illusion
and exaggerated vocal expressions, resulting in more intense that a singer has taken her place amid the orchestra’ [53, p. 378)).
emotional reactions [2,5]. It is possible that, even when Second, many traditional violin gestures can be said to ressem-
manipulation intensity is controlled to be strictly identical ble the source-filter parameters manipulated in this work: while
as for speech, the specific acoustics of singing voice may pro- violin strings are ordinarily bowed or plucked in the centre of
vide a clearer, more contrasting background for emotional the fingerboard, violinists intentionally bow strings at the