monicity of the source (i.e. subharmonics), which may be alarm calls have been studied in the field of animal communi-
hindered in the presence of a harmonic musical background cation [58]. All these examples suggest that cultural evolution
[46]. Another possible explanation is psychological, where has found ways, by virtue of innovations in organology,
the emotional quality of the manipulated vocal source may performance or repertoire, to map the natural expressive
be dampened because of its superposition with a non-manipu- resources of spoken voice to musical parameters, and ritualize
lated and possibly non-emotionally-congruent background. In them into musical practice.
the present work, participants were instructed to rate the Furthering this idea, we tested two groups of (self-
expression perceived in music as a whole, and not e.g. of a reported) musicians and non-musicians. A wealth of empiri-
specific vocal source while ignoring the background [46], cal evidence has shown that musical training enhances
which may have also contributed to these effects. Finally, the auditory and pitch processing [59] and the ability to recog-
explanation may also be technical, owing to the possibly lim- nize emotions in music [60], and that these effects transfer
ited applicability of the transformation algorithms to non- to recognizing emotions in speech [10,61,62]. It could there-
vocal material. The fact that we did not present participants fore be expected that musicians should perform differently
with a solo-instrument condition (without concurrent musical from non-musicians, either because of an enhanced ability
background) is limiting our ability to arbitrate between these to perceive subtle vocal cues in complex music mixes,

possibilities, and could be considered for future work. because of greater familiarity with eg. the instrumental


timbre of the violin, or because of a different cultural under- 4 M aterial and method s
standing of cues like vibrato or spectrum. We found no .

evidence that it was the case: whether participants were self- (a) Pa rticipants

declared musicians or non-musicians did not interact with Here N= 60 participants (M = 23.1 years old, s.d.=3.2; female: