link between acoustics and body size is proposed to motivate this cultural and individual variation, listeners are highly sensi-
a diverse range of communicative uses of pitch, including the tive to the distinction between male and female voices, a skill
following three related classes of facts: (i) social indexing, that arises early but continues to develop throughout one’s life-
such as using vocal modulation to signal dominance and defer- time [37]. Evidence from auditory Stroop tasks with male and
ence; (ii) size sound symbolism, such as using pitch to iconically female voices shows that people automatically process the
depict size differences; and (iii) proposed universal tendencies speaker's gender even when this information is task irrelevant
in intonation phonology, in particular the use of rising pitch [38]. This automaticity of paying attention to vocal gender
contours to signal questions [21,22]. The frequency code cues arises relatively early in development [39]. While gender
hypothesis is a highly synergetic proposal, suggesting that is complex and goes much beyond biological sex differences,
pitch is associated with a large and diverse ‘package of evol- this literature shows that vocal sex differences are highly salient
utionary meanings’ [23, p. 81]. It is, moreover, a very bold to listeners. This is important for the discussion of acoustic body
proposal, suggesting that a number of different classes of size in humans: regardless of whether there actually is or is not a
cultural facts have a singular shared biological motivation. correlation between FO and body size within sexes, people
We first provide a detailed review of the original fre- experience the association between FO and body size across
quency code hypothesis in the light of new evidence (§2). sexes. In addition to sex differences, there is a clear correlation
Then we test one of the frequency code’s predictions—that between body size and acoustics across age, with small infants
politeness should be associated with high pitch—in a meta- having much higher fundamental frequencies and resonance
analysis of existing studies from seven languages (§3). This frequencies than adults who are also larger [40,41].
new evidence leads us to propose a more multidimensio- FO does not reliably track differences in body size
nal account of the role of body size in human vocal among adult speakers within sexes [42-44], although formant
communication (§4). frequencies do [42]. To some extent, what is the veridical acous-

tic correlate of body size does not matter when it comes
to communicative interpretations of size-related acoustics:
