p- 1382] discusses universals in intonation and criticizes the other intense emotions) are incompatible with particular
fact that accounts such as the frequency code are ‘effectively forms of politeness.
unfalsifiable’. How, for example, should question contours A guiding concept for our discussion was the idea of
that have sharp final rises followed by sharp falls be treated? ‘pluripotentiality’: any linguistic form can serve multiple
Does the sharp rise count as positive evidence for the fre- different functions depending on a large number of contex-
quency code even though it is immediately followed by a tual factors. This pluripotentiality was already implicitly
fall? It is furthermore worth noting that although the rising = referenced in Ohala’s proposal, but it is now backed up by
question/ falling = statement pattern has been observed in substantial empirical evidence. The pluripotentiality is appar-
individual studies of the intonational systems of specific ent when looking at the meaning of pitch across different
languages, there has been no work that actually provides a studies, or based on tasks which directly show that contextual
formal test for this idea with a large sample of languages con- manipulations influence the interpretation of sound symbolic
trolling for genealogical and areal dependencies, as is stimuli [139], or the politeness-related interpretation of pitch
standard in modern statistical typology [121,156]. [83]. The fact that pitch has multiple different interpretations
Even if, for the time being, we accept that rising question also means that we cannot easily ground proposed intonation
intonation is a cross-linguistic tendency, the explanatory con- universals in the frequency code without additional evidence.
nection between body size and sentence type (question We thus think that while the frequency code has been useful
versus statement) is exceedingly indirect, requiring multiple in some domains of inquiry, its application to communicative
linking assumptions. The idea that questions relate to some phenomena less directly connected to size is considerably
notion of ‘informational submissiveness’ or in Ohala’s terms, more tenuous. Given that the frequency code is by its very
‘desire for the goodwill of the receiver’ [9,10,12, p. 343] may nature an umbrella proposal, linking seemingly disparate
appear plausible, but the explanation itself is not directly sup- facts, it is important to ask the questions whether all empiri-
ported by any data. This is especially true in the light of our cal phenomena are actually linked to particular biological
discussion of pluripotentiality: the fact that pitch serves mul- explanations, and whether this link is direct, or mediated
tiple functions means that alternative explanations of the by additional cultural factors.
