individual studies of the intonational systems of specific ent when looking at the meaning of pitch across different
languages, there has been no work that actually provides a studies, or based on tasks which directly show that contextual
formal test for this idea with a large sample of languages con- manipulations influence the interpretation of sound symbolic
trolling for genealogical and areal dependencies, as is stimuli [139], or the politeness-related interpretation of pitch
standard in modern statistical typology [121,156]. [83]. The fact that pitch has multiple different interpretations
Even if, for the time being, we accept that rising question also means that we cannot easily ground proposed intonation
intonation is a cross-linguistic tendency, the explanatory con- universals in the frequency code without additional evidence.
nection between body size and sentence type (question We thus think that while the frequency code has been useful
versus statement) is exceedingly indirect, requiring multiple in some domains of inquiry, its application to communicative
linking assumptions. The idea that questions relate to some phenomena less directly connected to size is considerably
notion of ‘informational submissiveness’ or in Ohala’s terms, more tenuous. Given that the frequency code is by its very
‘desire for the goodwill of the receiver’ [9,10,12, p. 343] may nature an umbrella proposal, linking seemingly disparate
appear plausible, but the explanation itself is not directly sup- facts, it is important to ask the questions whether all empiri-
ported by any data. This is especially true in the light of our cal phenomena are actually linked to particular biological
discussion of pluripotentiality: the fact that pitch serves mul- explanations, and whether this link is direct, or mediated
tiple functions means that alternative explanations of the by additional cultural factors.

universal tendencies are possible and have indeed been pro-
posed (e.g. [22]). This was also pointed out by Ladd [151], Ethics. The data have been published elsewhere (meta-analysis).


Data accessibility. All data and code are available from the following and dominance, such as in a court hearing or interrogation. Ques-

repository: https://osf.io/amw7u/. tions can also have a prosocial function, such as when offering
Authors’ contributions. B.W. completed a first draft of the manuscript. something (e.g. Do you want some coffee?). In these situations,