material, figure S2), while Denisovan-Unique sites show less 80%) are shared with other global populations, while few
distinction between South Asians and Europeans compared Papuan Denisovan-Unique alleles (approx. 18%) are found in
with Neanderthal-Unique sites (figure 4b). Europe, East Asia or South Asia (electronic supplementary

Despite the regional differences as observed in the PCA, material, figure S11). As most of the Denisovan variation pre-
more archaic alleles are shared between populations and sent in Papuans is private to Papuans, there is very little
regions than are population- or region-unique (electronic sup- sharing between Papuans and East Asian populations or
plementary material, tables S1 and S2) [62]. For example, Papuans and South Asian populations. Therefore, we still see
when we examine archaic allele sharing between Eurasian that the majority of Denisovan-Unique variants present in
populations (East Asians, South Asians, and Europeans), East Asian or South Asian populations are private to these
we find that archaic variants present in only a single Eurasian populations (approx. 53 and 55%, respectively; electronic sup-
population make up 35.6% of archaic variants, representing plementary material, figure S11). This pattern of limited allele
21.1% of South Asian alleles, 20.3% of East Asian alleles sharing between populations may be due to the fact that mul-
and 4.2% of European alleles (figure 5a). These numbers tiple Denisovan-like populations have admixed with modern
show that South Asian populations have the largest humans [16,23].

number of unique archaic alleles relative to other Eurasian
populations (17.2%). If we examine only the Neanderthal-

Unique alleles (figure 5b), the trends are similar to those (0) Comparing archaic allele frequencies between

observed for All-Archaic alleles (figure 5a). Notably, the populations
Denisovan-Unique alleles show a different pattern, where a While most of the variation in non-Africans is a subset of
large proportion (approx. 72%) of Denisovan-Unique vari- what we observed in African populations, non-African popu-
ation is private to South Asian or East Asian populations lations have accrued new alleles since their expansion out of