African ancestry, an increase in the proportion of donors tin’s 1972 paper [1]? Using genomic data, we have shown
with African ancestry will contribute to their chances of find- that SNPs within the MHC region, and specifically those
ing a compatible donor. As a consequence, they used their within HLA genes, show unusually low Fsr values among geo-
findings to recommend that recruitment of new donors for graphic regions. When we examine the apportionment of
REDOME be targeted to regions of Brazil where African variation at HLA alleles (defined by the combination of
ancestry is higher (e.g. the northeast of the country) in an coding SNPs within each locus), we find a pattern similar to
effort to reduce the disparity in access to compatible that reported by Lewontin, with the bulk of variation being
donors. Nunes ef al.’s [47] analysis of ancestry and matching attributable to differences among individuals within popu-
underscores the importance of genetic diversity in medical lations and not due to differences among populations. Taken
research and public policies, and points out the importance at face value, these results appear to support a ‘lack of popu-
of finding an appropriate way to describe HLA diversity. lation structure’ for HLA diversity. This is, however, a
It may seem surprising to refer to ‘Black’ and ‘Mixed’ when misleading interpretation: the repertoire of HLA alleles present
celebrating Lewontin’s [1] paper, which provided a categorical in populations from different regions is in fact quite different
rejection of racial categories. Our results show that in the case (e.g. figure 5), and the reason why Fer is low is because
of finding compatible donors, the government-defined labels within-population diversity is extremely high, constraining
are only useful to the extent that they are correlated with gen- the maximum Fer value that can be reached [43]. Thus, in the
omewide ancestry which, in turn, is correlated with ancestry in case of HLA genes, equating ‘low Fer’ to ‘shared diversity’ is
the MHC [47]. It is ultimately the genetic ancestry of the MHC inappropriate. In fact, HLA diversity has historically proved
which defines the chances of finding a match. Because genetic highly informative for tracking the movement of human popu-
data are not readily available for the population as a whole, the lations for the very reason that many HLA alleles are
government-defined labels can provide a proxy for ancestry geographically restricted [50].
that can guide recruitment policies. Despite the utility of Do these findings for HLA genes counter the central
these labels to the practical problem of transplantation, their message contained in Lewontin [1]? Given Lewontin was
continued use can contribute to reifying the incorrect notion clear that his findings referred to an average over many
that groups such as ‘Black’ and ‘Mixed’ have a well-defined loci, and later explicitly stated that genes with marked fre-