it is unclear how best to move from a population-level under- doing the real work of increasing disease risks.

standing of disease risk (however defined) to a risk prediction
for an individual patient.

In other words, if the population structure that mattered 6. Shipwrecked on the shoals of population
for disease risk could be readily identified, and if sociocul-

tural location mirrored genetic population structure, then structure
population structure, understood to reflect both sociocultural There is a certain irony in the utility of PRS being wrecked on
position and genomic affinities, could be accounted for in the the shoals of population structure. Twenty years ago, Rose
development and clinical application of PRS. Put another [81] published ‘Sick Individuals and Sick Populations’, part
way, if human population structure was straightforward, i.e. of the point of which was to highlight the fact that the
if there were in fact only a few major population divisions causes of differences in disease incidence within populations
within our species, little gene exchange between populations, (causes of incidence) were usually distinct from the causes
and general homogeneity (of both genetic and non-genetic of differences in disease prevalence between populations
risk factors) within each of those populations, the problem (causes of prevalence). The other take-home message from
would be easily solved. In such a world, it would be Rose was that the causes of between-population prevalence
simple to develop separate PRS for each population, and were usually where the public health action was. If one
easy to assign people to the correct referent population for wants to make major changes in population-level health out-
risk analysis using a PRS. But part of the lesson from the comes, i.e. to identify and intervene on the risk factors
kind of study of human populations that Lewontin made responsible for health inequities, attention to the causes of
famous is precisely that this picture is utterly unlike actual prevalence usually makes more sense than a focus on identi-
human population structure. While it is true that sophisti- fying and intervening on individuals’ exposure to the causes
cated clustering algorithms can tease out elements of of incidence. But, of course, using PRS to guide clinical prac-