chromosomally encoded. These patterns reflect broader that the metabolic costs associated with plasmid gene
trends in the susceptibility of genes to undergo HGT, with expression, and in particular, translation, make the principal
transfer of genes encoding proteins with multiple interaction contribution to observed plasmid fitness costs, because of the
partners (such as efflux pumps) proving less successfully trans- bioenergetic costs of amino acid biosynthesis and the fact
mitted than genes with fewer interactions (such as antibiotic that proteins tend to be more abundant than their correspond-
inactivation) [18,19]. The recent global spread of ARGs is per- ing DNA and transcripts [26]. Rodriguez-Beltran and
haps a case study, representative of broader patterns of a colleagues [27] addressed the role of translation directly, by
general, ubiquitous, ancient process of MGE-mediated gene examining how plasmid fitness costs are affected in cells with
exchange. translation defects. If translation were the dominant reason
While MGEs can spread useful genes, viewing the crucial for plasmid costs, then cells with either reduced ribosome
benefits provided to microbial hosts from the perspective of elongation rates or fewer ribosomes should suffer exacerbated
the MGE itself reveals details and discrepancies that are fun- fitness costs when they are inhabited by a plasmid. But this was
damental to understanding how MGEs cause microbes to not the case, and in fact, impeding translation appeared in
adapt. The nitrogen-fixing symbiosis genes of Rhizobia pro- some cases to reduce plasmid costs. These results suggest that
vide an instructive example. In their review on the subject, generic mechanisms are less important for plasmid fitness
Wardell et al. [20] explain that the complex, multi-component costs than expected, and indicate instead that specific gene con-
and exquisitely coevolved symbiosis trait is encoded not as flicts may be the predominant cause, a result that will probably
part of the core rhizobial genome but is instead located on generalize to other types of MGE.
mobile plasmids or integrative conjugative elements—impos- The role of specific genes in mediating the negative effects
ing a fitness cost and impeding co-adaptation with the rest of of plasmids is also supported by a study by Smith and
the genome. Yet this phenomenon makes sense when consid- colleagues [28]. Here, the authors examine a curious phenom-
ering the interests of the MGE and the symbiosis genes it enon that occurs when Pseudomonas species acquire the huge
carries: symbiosis mobility enables MGEs to take advantage (976 kb) P. syringae plasmid pMPPla107: plasmid-carrying

of patchy selection in the heterogeneous soil environment, cells become sensitive to an unknown factor secreted by