ited, sym element transfer is less successful and can require extensive adaptation to acquire only partial functionality.
Evidence from other host-plasmid relationships suggests that some degree of adaptation—sometimes co-adaptation—of

host or plasmid is the norm following MGE acquisition. Future studies are required to understand the role of pre-adaptation 2
in sym element transfer and function and how this may constrain transmission through rhizobial populations. =

Why are dual-sym rhizobia so rare? Many rhizobial populations are home to diverse sym elements which encode compar- a
able functions, i.e. symbiosis with a specific host, but are not obviously incompatible. Yet strains carrying more than one sym —
element are rare. Are ‘dual-sym’ strains more common in soil environments—where their symbiosis functions are down- 2
regulated—and does nodulation lead to displacement of one element by the other? =

How do sym elements mobilize through the rhizobial metapopulation? The legume symbiosis is just one of numerous niches that 8
rhizobial populations inhabit, and studies suggest that sym-gene-carrying rhizobia may in fact be in the minority in the popu- 35
lation as a whole. The vast majority of studies have focused on rhizobial strains isolated from plant nodules, but it remains o
unclear how sym elements are shared across the wider metapopulation. For example, are all rhizobia within a population i
potential sym element hosts, or are rhizobia occupying alternative niches maladapted to conversion to symbiosis via HGT? er

Experimental approaches in sym element ecology and evolution. The rhizobium—legume symbiosis is one of the best studied =
mutualisms in the world, but there remains a great deal to understand about the rhizobial populations, as outlined Ss
above. Addressing these questions requires two key approaches: firstly a greater exploration of rhizobial populations S
beyond the nodule environment. Studies that have investigated these populations suggest that there is a great deal of diver- =>

sity outside the host. Whole genome sequencing of these populations would reveal more about the structure of sym element
populations in addition to that of the host. Secondly, use of evolutionary ecology techniques such as experimental evolution
and competition experiments can help to explore the fitness consequences of plasmid transfer, and the downstream adap-