that resulted from the fluctuating climatic conditions thus and bored stones attain some form of importance during s
enabling humans to engage with diverse ecological contexts this time. The most preferred lithic raw material was quartz. Ss
[55]. A similar occurrence was noted in the Late Pleistocene of Shum Laka is one of the major hominin sites in West- s
Central Africa [18]. Central Africa. It is ‘located close to the northern border of

the equatorial forest in northwestern Cameroon’ [60,61]. In
the Shum Laka sequence dated to ca 31 ka, quartz constituted

(b) Late Pleistocene—Early Holocene 96-86% in the lower part of the sequence and up to 63% in
There is archaeological evidence of human occupation of the the upper sequence [62]. The prevalent lithics included
rainforests regions of Central Africa in the Late Pleistocene foliate, core-axes, arrowheads and microlithic artefacts
ie. 40 ka BP. The most prominent sites include Ituri forest, (figure 2). The technologies, which were found in lithic arte-
Ishango, Matupi and Shum Laka, while the dominant archae- facts from a variety of sites namely Matupi, Ituri rock shelter
ological materials are lithic artefacts; they are mainly made of sites, Ishango and Shum Laka, ranged from relatively stan-
quartz or quartzite. Palaeoenvironmental reconstructions of dardized bifacial reduction strategies, percussion from
parts of this broad region (e.g. Okala) indicate that before globular, irregular cores and bipolar reduction [18]. While
30 ka BP, the environment was dominated by rainforests there are some local variations, the consistency in artefact
taxa [18] and an expansion of MSFs; climatic conditions technology across some major sites in the region is indicative
were warm and humid. Subsequently, from 30 ka to 20 ka of a continuous process of development. For instance, the
BP, the environment fluctuated between forests and savan- Lupemban industry was dominant in the southwestern
nah, and humid and dry conditions [24]. By contrast, at region of Central Africa; in contrast, it is replaced by micro-
Lake Barombi Mbo, rainforests were abundant with frequent lithic technology in the southeastern parts after 25 ka BP.
occurrence of montane taxa indicating the extension of cool From the Late Pleistocene onwards, climatic conditions fluc-
conditions into the lowlands. tuated between warm and humid and dry and cool
