results indicate that the long-held assumption that a hominin long-term human habitation [45,51,57].
presence in tropical forests only emerged following the arrival Moving on in time, Orijemie [58] synthesizes past climatic
of agriculture should be rejected, and reorients geographical variability in the forest of West-Central Africa during the Late
assessments of human dispersals in and beyond Africa. Pleistocene—Holocene period to understand the interaction of
This tantalizing picture of a long-term hominin presence climate on the development and stability of human commu-
in the tropical forest regions of Africa sits within a backdrop nities in the region over time. Combining palaeoclimate
of 1 million years of dynamic climatic and environmental and vegetation histories, Orijemie highlights the significance
change. Here, Gosling and colleagues [50] synthesize infor- of climate variability on the development and survival of
mation on Pleistocene and Holocene vegetation changes early hominin ancestors and humans in the forest regions
from long-term terrestrial and marine records, showing how of West-Central Africa. In response to major climatic fluctu-
the locations of vegetative resources for hominins shifted geo- ations, West-Central African savannahs expanded at the
graphically over time (see also [51]). Of particular interest is the expense of forests, but did not transit into strictly ‘forest’ or
fact that the hominin presence in the Congo Basin described by ‘savannah’ blocks. Rather, the forests had a variety of
Braucher et al. [49], coincides with generally humid conditions vegetation types and biodiversity ecotones, even during
and therefore likely a period of forest expansion, rather than periods of environmental stress. These data suggest hetero-
fragmentation. Furthermore, a profound shift in the hydro-cli- geneous and resilient forest ecosystems. Human behaviours
mate in the last 1 Myr in Africa, leading to eastern and western exhibited in the form of technological modifications and
parts of the forest zones being alternately wetter and drier, changes in subsistence strategies, varied independently of cli-
occurs at a time when the first fossil appearances of our species mate and vegetation changes, suggesting climate was not the
have been suggested elsewhere in Africa (e.g. [52]). For later prevailing driver of human behaviour or community stability.
time periods associated with H. sapiens, vegetative changes This brings us to the present day, and Boyette and col-
were clearly asynchronous in different regions, likely produ- leagues synthesize genetic, paleoclimatological, and historical
cing the conditions for mixed resource acquisition in many linguistic data on the peopling of the Congo Basin and use
regions and necessitating adaptability. this to build on their ethnographic work in the northern
Taylor [53] specifically pursues the question of mixed Republic of Congo with BaYaka foragers living along the