
(f) Association mapping using real data type cannot be ruled out, one should also keep in mind that
To test associations with actual phenotypic values, we these datasets had high FPR for some simulations, especially
measured growth for all our isolates on 10 mM copper sulfate the sake dataset. In the other datasets, the CUP1-2 gene was
and normalized these sizes by growth on the standard YPD significantly associated with the phenotype, with no other

medium at 30°C. These measures are a proxy for the fitness significant association.


The score of association is an indicator of the ease with as this kinship will introduce a bias in allele frequencies which

which a dataset is able to detect the causal variant. Here, will also lead to false associations, as we have observed for
we see that the 1011 strains dataset shows the lowest p-value the sake and the European wine subpopulations. In fact,
(4.9 x 10-"), followed by the European wine dataset (6.03 x additional simulations would be very useful in order to test
10-1’) and the sampled diversity dataset (1.04 x 10). These more precisely for other variables that could have an impact
results are consistent with our simulations, as the 1011 strains on the results of the GWAS, such as genetic diversity, variation
and the sampled diversity datasets were the ones that in heritability and size effect distribution.

showed the best results. The detection of the CUP1-2 gene for The results of our associations vary considerably from one
the European wine subpopulation is attributed to the evol- cohort to another, allowing us to evaluate the limits of GWAS
utionary history of this population, and its link with human and present what would constitute an ideal dataset for associ-
activity. Indeed, in that case, the acquisition of resistance to ation studies. For mapping a Mendelian trait, the sampled
copper sulfate is certainly reflecting convergent evolution due diversity set is the best, with the fewest false positives, and is
to human selection for industrial processes [28], thus emphasiz- followed by the total dataset with 1011 strains. When the trait
ing the fact that dataset composition also depends on the is complex, the entire population has the advantage of map-