outcomes, limiting the scope of genetic engineering efforts that shape the evolvability of biological systems.
to manipulate metabolism [184]. Instead, yield optimization Despite recent successes mapping targeted genomic pertur-
is achieved by the iterative selection of the desired pheno- bations to phenotypic outcomes, we have yet to harness the full
types. The success of selective breeding is subject to potential of experimental evolution combined with synthetic
evolutionary constraints affecting the yield of biosynthetic approaches. For practical reasons, most existing efforts have
processes, including the level of genomic plasticity that a focused on microbial systems, including a study of almost 600
particular prokaryote ‘species’ can tolerate [185,186] and the E. coli strains that found network linkages synthetically intro-
robustness of metabolic flux [187-189]. Hence, metabolic duced into endogenous GRNs tend to enhance adaptability to
engineering combined with selective breeding (directed selection pressures [196]. Yet many more ongoing studies in
evolution) appears to be a well-suited approach to study microbial evolution could still benefit from synthetic augmen-
evolutionary mechanisms, as it provides an experimental tation. For example, only two of 58 possible cross-feeding
framework to explore how altered genotypes affect fitness- interactions in E. coli have been observed to evolve under exper-
related phenotypes, to identify bottlenecks and possible imental conditions, despite the fact that the metabolic rewiring
ways to overcome them, and to quantitatively address required to generate these two interactions is theoretically no
system-level features such as complexity and optimality. less complex than to generate the other outcomes [197]. The

A comprehensive understanding of metabolism may be ability to synthetically rewire elements of the metabolic
even more relevant to studying evolution in multi-cellular network for one or both strains offers a controlled way to com-
than unicellular organisms, given that metabolic processes, pare the performance of various cross-feeding pairs and
in addition to managing the bioenergetic requirements of systematically characterize environmental constraints, as well
cells, can directly alter signalling pathways and developmen- as to investigate the extent to which evolutionary innovations
tal programmes (reviewed in [190,191]). For example, the in one lineage trigger speciation in cohabiting lineages.
intracellular concentration of specific metabolites has been Synthetic approaches appropriate for microbial studies
shown to regulate key ontogenetic processes such as zygotic provide direct inroads into controlled experiments involving
genome activation [192] or the development of the presomitic multi-cellular organisms. Gut microbiota are one avenue of