it into the presence of food. If so, then we return to the previous what James Gibson referred to as ‘affordances’ [10].
situation, which again motivates ingestion. Sometimes, of My goal in what follows is to propose a hypothetical but
course, one can encounter a threat. This is the impetus for plausible sequence of the behavioural innovations that occurred
escape behaviour, which again acts as a feedback loop that in evolution along the lineage that produced humans, framed
(hopefully) removes the threat. As shown in figure 1, all of in the context of feedback control and the concepts defined
these impetus-action processes take the form of negative feed- above, including impetus, key stimulus and affordance. Other
back loops (the total sign around each complete loop is concepts often discussed in neuroscience, such as internal rep-
negative), and this is why they are adaptive. In the language resentations and goals, will be introduced along the way but
of dynamical systems, the state-to-action pairs (black arrows) always within the context of feedback control, as this makes
complement the action-to-state pairs (grey arrows) in such a their functional roles more readily interpretable. Even standard
way that the desirable state becomes a stable attractor towards psychological distinctions, such as between perception and
which the system tends to flow. Note that in complex systems action or between cognition and emotion, can best be understood
this attractor is not a point, but an extended manifold within within this general context [4,11,12]. In fact, the overall theme will
which the state may vary over time. Also note that the inter- be that the evolutionary history of the nervous system is essen-
actions between the loops (such as escape inhibiting all tially a history of the continuous extension of behavioural
foraging-related activity) are of critical importance and make feedback control further and further into the world [8]. It has
governing behaviour an endlessly expanding challenge. often been proposed that viewing the brain from an evolutionary
Nevertheless, all behaviour can be seen as involving negative perspective offers a better conceptual foundation than viewing it
feedback loops with the environment, ensuring that the organ- in terms of human psychological constructs [4,8,13-18], and I
ism remains in desirable states (e.g. you have a full stomach) will not repeat those arguments here. Instead, I will focus on
and avoids undesirable states (e.g. you are filling someone going ahead and trying to develop some of that evolutionary
else’s stomach). perspective in order to apply it towards constructing a general
An important distinction not shown in figure 1 is between hypothesis on the organization of primate brains. In the interest
two ways in which information from the environment can be of limiting an already daunting scope, | will focus primarily on
