a state of heightened sensitivity to similar cues should the is darker and moves more slowly. To indicate hideability, that
predator return. One is tempted to call this ‘fear’ or ‘anxiety’. motion edge must be above the point of visual expansion,
If we are willing to extrapolate from studies of mammals, and ideally it should be just barely above it. Detecting such
we can suppose that the amniote LPall retained the a combination of features does not require a map of space,
appetitive-aversive axis of early vertebrates, with the anterior or even a visual image. What it requires is rough spatial selec-
end specialized for estimating the impetus for appetitive tivity combined with motion and brightness selectivity, with
behaviours and the posterior end specialized for learning to the right dependence on geometric transformations (proper-
identify cues that motivate escape, freezing and other defen- ties quite similar to those for navigating using landmarks);
sive actions [109,110,113,114,119]. However, it should be and, of course, all of this should be modulated by ‘alarm’
noted that this distinction is blurred by the extensive intercon- signals indicating the need to find shelter.
nections among pallial regions, particularly in what in This kind of rudimentary selectivity is indeed found in
mammals forms the basolateral amygdala and in birds the reptile dorsal cortex. Studies in turtles show that despite
caudal nidopallium [120]. the fact that thalamic projections to the visual part of the
What about the DPall? In contrast with the visual region DPall are not retinotopic, spatio-temporal aspects of visual
of the VPall, which receives information via the optic tectum stimuli can nonetheless be decoded from neural activity
and collothalamus, the visual area in the reptilian DPall recorded therein [125,126]. The reason is that while the recep-
(called dorsal cortex) receives retinal information directly tive fields of individual neurons are large, they are not
through the lemnothalamus [89,121]. This is similar to the entirely uniform across space. Furthermore, they are sensitive
adjacent MPall, which relies on information about the relative to brightness edges and their polarity, to visual motion, and
position of landmarks for use in navigation. Relational pro- respond with different latencies to central versus lateral
cessing of a different sort also occurs in the DPall, but not stimuli [126,127]. Thus, although the reptile DPall may not
for landmark detection. Instead, I propose that visual infor- have the acuity to form images of the visual world, it does
mation in the DPall was used to detect the affordances of the possess the right combination of properties necessary to
immediate environment (what is climbable, what is a good detect the relevant affordances of that world.
place to rest, what is a good place to hide, etc.), and down- Admittedly, my particular example of finding shelter may