ten 95% right papers afterwards, provided the methodologi- for example, final size calculations presented by Gog &
cal limitations imposed by doing it fast are made clear’, What Hollingsworth to SAGE in February 2020 [31].
makes an academic paper useful for health policy? Whitty
(24, p. 3].
The predictive nature of infectious disease modelling lends aie . .
itself for use in policy, preparedness and capacity planning and 5. Publishi ng duri ng a pan demic
for evaluating policies which might mitigate epidemic spread. The constantly evolving situation and rapid turnaround of
The impact of some interventions can be predicted with rela- modelling evidence are incompatible with the majority of cur-
tively simple reasoning, but often multiple interacting factors rent publishing mechanisms. Policy advice is often needed
combine to create complex scenarios. In these cases, infectious within days. By contrast, in normal times, scientific manu-
disease models can be an aid to formalize thinking and quan- scripts are peer reviewed over a period of months (although
tify qualitatively obvious results. Modelling can be thought of there are beginning to be alternative models involving open
as a mechanism for collating facts and educated guesses into a peer review, in journals such as F1000 and Wellcome Open
single framework that can guide policy decisions [25]. Research). Peer reviewing is time consuming and almost com-
Much of the current theory of infectious disease dynamics, pletely without credit. During an epidemic emergency,
taken for granted today, was developed during the early years scientific results must be shared immediately and widely, and
of the AIDS epidemic—indeed the SPI-M-O chairs Graham during 2020, pre-print manuscripts, not yet peer reviewed,
Medley and Angela McLean modelled HIV/AIDS trans- became the modus operandi for communicating the latest find-
mission in the 1980s, including influential work predicting ings. Although pre-prints allowed results to be published
the number of undiagnosed HIV cases in the UK [26,27]. rapidly, they lack the quality assurance that peer review,
Since then, modelling has provided evidence used for control- albeit imperfectly, offers. In this regard, the Royal Society's
ling infectious disease risks in the UK of both humans and Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic (RAMP) initiative
animals, including vCJD in the 1990s [28], foot-and-mouth dis- took on the massive, essential task of rapidly reviewing pre-
ease outbreaks of cloven hoof animals in 2001 and 2007 [29] print manuscripts.
and the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009 [30], to name a few. A further conflict between policy and academic impact