Observations of routinely high larval mortality from host mass would be gained by postponing pupation and continu-
senescence make the insect’s phenology seem maladaptive, ing to feed on warm and cool slopes. We then translated that
but from the mother’s perspective, it is not necessarily so. If additional mass into additional fecundity over and above the
a final-instar female larva that has achieved the minimum starting value of 570.
size for pupation continues to feed and delays adulthood, Tables 3a and 3b show that butterflies eclosing at the very
she increases her own fecundity as well as her offspring’s start of the flight season would have lost fitness by delaying
mortality from host senescence. There is an intergenerational maturity. Losses on north-facing slopes would have been
conflict, a tradeoff between maternal fecundity and offspring heaviest. However, at least under the best conditions (south
survival. Typically in such a tradeoff, neither trait is opti- slope maximum), the three different lengths of delay gener-
mized, so we expect neither fecundity nor survival to be ated similar expectations of fitness because changes in
maximized. fecundity and mortality compensated for each other.

The fact that offspring survival is not maximized in this
case appears as routinely observed high mortality from phe-
nological asynchrony with hosts. The fact that fecundity is

not maximized appears as extreme variability; in a sample 4. Discussion

of 221 newly emerged wild-caught individuals, estimated Sixty years of detailed ecological and evolutionary studies of
fecundity ranged from 135 to 1680 [57]. We perceive an ana- wild populations of Edith’s Checkerspot butterflies across a
logy with the well-known tradeoff between maternal wide range of habitats and ecotypes have provided a rich
fecundity and offspring survival stemming from maternal source of natural and planned experiments that elucidate
decisions about offspring size: a mother can increase her both proximate mechanisms and underlying selective drivers
fecundity by making her offspring small, but usually at the of the spatial patterns of climatic stress that we observe.
