open-ocean. Oceanic species have tended to keep pace with
warming temperatures, with 3/4 of species maintaining
their species-specific climate envelopes [8,11,28-30]. These 2. Geographic mosaics in climate-related

effects are sufficiently general that marine species richness h A .
is declining faster around the equator than at other latitudes stress—a non-exhaustive review

[31]. Effects of light and oxygen are important in specific In the simple model with which we started, natural selection
cases—for example, the need for high light intensity con- stemming from climatic stresses should increase monotoni-
strains poleward range shifts of tropical corals [32]—but cally towards range limits—especially warm limits under
these cases fail to mask the overarching influence of tempera- anthropogenic warming trends. We have already cited
ture on marine range dynamics. reasons why terrestrial and intertidal systems frequently vio-
By contrast, range dynamics in terrestrial and intertidal late that simple model. The fact that this violation results in
systems have been more diverse than in open-marine geographic mosaics of climate stress through species’
environments and less predictable from changes of regional ranges, including range centres, was first recognized in a syn-
temperature. There are several likely contributing factors to thesis of intertidal studies [41]. With few exceptions [42-44],
this difference: almost all subsequent references to climate stress mosaics
concern intertidal systems in which stress mosaics are
(1) The velocity of climate change (e.g. geographic shifts in driven very directly by mosaics of temperature and moisture
annual mean temperature isotherms over time) is greater from which sessile organisms cannot escape (e.g. [45-47]).
in the ocean than on land and associated with greater Henceforth, we narrow our focus to the distribution of
observed range shifts in oceans than on land [28,29]. stress across ranges of terrestrial species. Our first two well-
(2) Terrestrial ecotherms operate, on average, less close to researched examples document climatic stresses in central
their thermal limits than do their marine counterparts, sections of species’ ranges. First, Bay et al. [44] showed that
so may be less immediately impacted by warming [30]. stresses were distributed in a mosaic across the geographic