figure 1a) and Ks. versus the scaled mutation target 2LU = emerges for very high genome-wide mutation rates—with
2L(u/ro) for the two values of h, for various carrying h=0.1, the second threshold Ks, exists only for 2LU = 0.8
capacities (with Ks, Ku, 2LU=2L(u/ro) held constant, as K in figure 3c. This is consistent with the fact that purging of
is varied). The threshold Ks,, which relates to population out- recessive mutations in smaller populations (which allows
comes in the zero migration limit, is (by definition) them to evolve significantly lower load than mainland popu-
independent of K in the semi-deterministic setting, as increas- lations) is only effective for very low h; thus, gene flow from

ing K merely weakens the demographic effects of migration. the mainland is less detrimental to the large-population


equilibrium in island populations for less recessive alleles. In heterozygosity and preventing fixation of deleterious alleles,

fact, for h 2 0.15, increasing migration always causes the even though numbers are relatively large.

sink equilibrium to vanish, irrespective of Ks. Moreover, the Both classical quantitative genetics and analyses of allele fre-
migration threshold m,; at which the sink state vanishes quency spectra suggest that most mutation load is owing to

falls with increasing h (compare figure 3b,d). Thus, we observe weakly deleterious alleles [24,25]. The weak selection on deleter-

a genetic Allee effect only at very low migration rates for mod- ious mutations may be strong relative to random drift in the
erately recessive alleles. This is consistent with the fact that species as a whole [24], but is likely to be dominated by
inbreeding load in small populations (owing to excess homo- random drift within local demes (i.e. Ks <1 in our notation). If
zygosity) becomes lower as alleles becomes less recessive, this is so, then extinction can be avoided only if many migrants

and is alleviated by even low levels of migration. enter demes in each generation. Fortunately, this is generally the = >