[7] and Lynch & Lande [8]. Models of ecological margins that connect population
Haldane [5] also asked how changing the frequency of genetics with population ecology in this way provide an
one allele relative to another reduces population mean fitness important framework to predict when and where evolution
for a given number of generations. This ‘Substitution Load’ is in response to environmental change is possible (see reviews
determined by the starting allele frequency. However, the by [1,14-17]). Such models of ecological margins can usefully
change in frequency this load achieves (across a number of be split into two types:
generations, determined by selection strength) increases
mean fitness (and therefore population size) because it (i) ecological models of adaptation assume a global or
moves the population trait mean closer to the local optimum. fundamental limit to niche width, where the pheno-
Bulmer [9] then distinguished substitutional load from types accessible by evolution cannot prevent low
‘standing or variance load’, which is the cost in terms of density towards a range margin [18,19], or in some
population mean fitness of variance around the phenotypic habitat patches compared to others [20]. Such
optimum. As we will see, the fact that the genetic component models, therefore, impose a higher demographic (and
of standing load determines adaptive potential, and is fitness) benefit to adaptation at the centre of a range,
increased by gene flow along clines, but also reduces local because these regions (or some patches) are more pro-
density (and therefore the efficiency of selection compared ductive than at the margins, even if the optimum is
to drift), is the focus of the latest population genetic models matched everywhere. The role of such fundamental
of ecological margins, and state-of-the-art predictions of ecological limits in predicting evolution is discussed
where and when adaptation will fail to track a changing opti- in Chevin & Hoffmann [21] as variation in ‘habitat
mum ([10], Polechova, [11]). quality’. When exploring these kinds of models, a
In summary therefore, and in terms of understanding key feature of their behaviour is that adaptive evol-
limits to adaptation, there are three types of ‘genetic load’, ution is inherently limited in its scope, because the
all of which maintain actual population density below that phenotypic variation available via gene flow and

of the local carrying capacity (see [12] for a longer review). mutation does not allow populations to be equally