& 4 - a =
I — control (n= 9) g —* control (n = 8)
TGOT ~ GABAzine (n = 9) TGOT ~~ GABAzine (n = 8)
50 T T T T T T T T T 50- TT T T T T T T
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
time (min) time (min)

Figure 3. Sex-specific mechanisms underlying TGOT-dependent potentiation. Top row: impact of 10 min bath application of TGOT on electrically evoked field EPSCs
in control and pair-bonded (a) males and (b) females. Middle row: impact of AM4113, a CB1 receptor antagonist, on the TGOT-induced potentiation recorded in pair-
bonded (c) males and (d) females. Bottom row: impact of GABAzine, a GABA, receptor antagonist, on the TGOT-induced potentiation recorded in pair-bonded (e)
males and (f) females. (Online version in colour.)

The fact that oxytocin agonism produces the same end of their partner, but not other women [51]. While the outcome
result in the NAc of male and female voles suggests it must in voles is the same in both sexes, just as the ability to form a
serve an adaptive physiological function. We hypothesize bond is shared by both partner, the mechanism underlying
that oxytocin-induced potentiation is a mechanism facilitat- oxytocin action appears to be sex-specific. In both cases, the
ing the expression of the bond in both sexes, though this mechanism relies on the association between oxytocin and
potentiation is arrived at by different mechanisms. More pre- another neuromodulatory system (eCBs versus GABA),
cisely, after a sufficiently long cohabitation, contact between whose nature would be the sex-dependent variable.
partners would induce the local release of oxytocin in the Why do males use different mechanisms to achieve the
NAc, which would then enhance the ability of excitatory same physiological goal? One interesting possibility is that in
inputs to NAc carrying signatures of the partner to release ancestral, non-pair-bonding species, oxytocin had a sexually
affiliative responses that are rewarding. We would expect dimorphic role, maternal bonding to offspring in females, but
that over the course of many encounters, the encoding of not males, and no pair bonding in either sex. With selection
partner-related cues and/or their rewarding value would toward pair bonding in both sexes, perhaps parallel, yet distinct