that allow us to personalize endocannabinoid-based combinatorial treatment. Genetic testing is one form of personalization
that can provide information to potentially guide combinatorial treatment strategies. For example, variation in SNPs in cnr
(CB, receptor) was associated with either a favourable or a poor response to cognitive behavioural treatment [266]. Additionally,
preclinical and clinical studies have consistently shown sex differences in the endocannabinoid system due to differences in
metabolism, cannabinoid receptor expression and ovarian hormone influence [106,267]. Data suggest that women are more sus-
ceptible to unwanted effects of cannabis use such as abuse, dependence, withdrawal and relapse [268]. In addition, oxytocin
administration led to greater stress reactivity in recreational cannabis users who were women [269]. Understanding how sex
differences impact treatment strategies that use the endocannabinoid system is critical to advancing these treatment approaches.

Further personalization should also be informed by a patient’s psycho-social history. For instance, the mechanism of
endocannabinoids seems to be dependent on stress and trauma history and can be affected by epigenetic modulation that
may be transmitted through trans-generational epigenetic inheritance [270]. Individuals with a trauma history may then
in fact self-medicate with cannabis [271,272] in order to treat an endocannabinoid-deficient state that impacts stress suscep-
tibility and may be especially amenable to treatment enhancing endocannabinoid tone [127]. Populations with significant
trauma history may also be uniquely impacted by modulation of the endocannabinoid system. For instance, Native Amer-
icans have altered 2-AG levels in the cerebrospinal fluid compared with Caucasians [273]. In addition, people of African
descent have a higher prevalence of polymorphisms in the cnr1 (CB, receptor) and faah (degradative enzyme of anandamide)
genes and polymorphisms in these genes have been linked to aberrant endocannabinoid signalling [274].

expression of the oxytocin receptor [249] and using a CB, recep- distinct endocannabinoid mediators would be recruited to
tor antagonist reduces oxytocin-induced analgesic behaviour control distinct aspects of a given circuit, which may or may
250]. Anandamide-mediated endocannabinoid signalling not be oxytocin-driven. This hypothesis would support a treat-
was found to mediate the effects of oxytocin to enhance and ment approach that emphasizes selective and on-demand
consolidate the rewarding properties of social interactions endocannabinoid mobilization in response to specific social
78], but, by contrast, 2-AG-mediated endocannabinoid signal- settings or activation of oxytocin signalling.