to be published (the ‘file-drawer effect’), and if published are concentration in each was approximately 50 pg ml~' whereas
less likely to be cited than confirmatory studies. levels in four monkeys given saline were less than 30 pg mI.
While it should be obvious that citation counts do not Lee et al. [109] tested whether this reflected entry of exogen-
measure study quality, it is often assumed that ‘the best ous oxytocin or release of endogenous oxytocin. They gave
and most valuable papers will attract more attention, shaping 80 IU of labelled oxytocin to rhesus macaques, and measured
the research trajectory of the field’ [105]. However, citations to it in CSF and plasma. Peripheral administration of oxytocin
highly cited papers are amplified by citations from papers did not lead to central release of endogenous oxytocin, and
outside the immediate field, from authors who may uncriti- intranasal administration was no more effective than intrave-
cally assume their reliability. We sought to minimize this nous administration in delivering oxytocin to the brain. By
distortion by looking only at indegree—citations from other either route, penetration was modest despite the very high
primary papers on oxytocin and social behaviour, from dose used, and was very variable between animals. However,
authors that might be expected to be aware of the quality intranasal administration consistently led to a progressive
of directly relevant papers. In fact, we found that indegree increase in plasma oxytocin to supraphysiological levels
correlates closely with total citation counts, suggesting that (2500 pg mI).
it is not just authors outside the field who uncritically Clearly intranasal and intravenous routes are not equival-
assume the reliability of top-cited papers. ent; while most of the oxytocin delivered intranasally enters
If, in each cluster, the top-cited papers represent its the gut, high concentrations enter extravascular compart-
greatest canonical achievements, there would seem to be ments. Oxytocin in the blood is rapidly degraded as it
disappointingly little progress to celebrate. In the intranasal passes through the liver and kidneys, but oxytocin in extra-
cluster, the six papers with most citations from ‘oxytocin/ vascular fluid is relatively stable; it enters the blood slowly,
social’ papers in 2012 were all among the seven top-cited generating a prolonged increase in plasma concentrations.
papers in each of the next 8 years. Indeed the twenty In another study, Lee et al. [110] again gave labelled
papers in this cluster with most citations in 2020 were all pub- oxytocin intranasally to macaques, but this time found
lished before the end of 2013. It seems that top-cited papers no labelled oxytocin in the CSF at any timepoint studied.
are generally the first to be noticed; but as mentioned pre- However, they also analysed microdissected brain regions,