of the user’s conversation partners (condition other; N = 153). In tion partners that they are either talking to them, or ie
each self-other condition, vignettes included a number of hearing them, with a modified voice, knowing that ‘this
within-participant conditions, which we describe below. For may improve the effectiveness of the device by up to
each vignette, participants were asked to answer three questions 70%. Gudge how acceptable it is to lie to your entourage
about fow morally acceptable they think the situation was about using the voice transformation, knowing that this
Gees # ft Jeti h . for all vienett would improve the effectiveness of the device’; FR: ‘A quel
a aer at ching t i questions " a d Vignenes, par point jugez-vous acceptable le fait de cacher -votre entourage
ticipants were asker to complete two standar questionnaires l'existence de la transformation de voix, en sachant que cela
measuring attitudes towards morality (Moral Foundations augmente considérablement I'efficacité du dispositif?)
Questionnaire MFQ; [31]) and toward technology and science (iii)

hi Lh table they think it Id be to hide th
fiction (Science Fiction Hobbyism Scale; [28]). The study lasted ow morally accepra - °y -_ n wow © oO meeme
. true purpose of the device from its own user, i.e. that the
on average 30 min.

users themselves do not know that they are either talking,
or hearing others, with a modified voice. (Judge how accep-
table it is that the [doctor/coach] should lie to the user about the

(c) Vignettes voice transformation, knowing that this would improve the
We created n= 12 short text vignettes describing potential appli- effectiveness of the device’; FR: A quel point jugez-vous
cations of the voice-transformation device in concrete daily life acceptable le fait que le médecin vous cache l'existence de
situations. Vignettes varied among three situational factors, la transformation de voix, en sachant que cela augmente
which were encoded as within-participant variables to test for considérablement son efficacité?)