as well as between cooperative breeding and experimentally sive list of what is considered part of the human interaction


engine, which makes it also more difficult to assess which prone to sharing information with others. It is therefore not

elements may be unique to the human interaction engine (D a big surprise that, even though capable of doing so,
in figure 2). Such elements are most likely related to the ability language-trained apes hardly ever freely share information.
to recognize and establish common ground, which arguably Rather, they use these acquired skills mostly to request
requires considerable causal understanding and may or things, e.g. food or treats. Marmosets on the other hand are
may not be based on a mature Theory of Mind and Gricean prone to share food and information even though because
intentions, and are related to concepts such as shared intention- of their limited technical skills there is not that much infor-
ality [153] that are notoriously difficult to operationalize in a mation beyond locations, foods and predators that could in
way that allows fair species comparisons [154]. The human fact be shared. It thus appears to be a good working model
interaction engine includes more cognitive elements than the to think about uniquely human skills as a double legacy, on
marmoset interaction engine, such as grasping common the one hand of our powerful cognitive apparatus that we
ground in more complex situations, which requires more have inherited from our great-ape-like ancestors, and on the
thorough causal understanding and better Theory of Mind other hand of novel motivational components that had been
abilities. These purely cognitive elements are arguably more added to it as a result of convergent evolution, such as the
likely to be shared with other great apes (C in figure 2) than cal- prosociality linked to cooperative breeding. The interaction
litrichids because they tend to be linked to brain size, and between these components, in particular during ontogeny,
because the great apes’ interaction engine can be expected to must have had cascading effects, eventually resulting in our
be more geared towards strategic cooperation and manipu- unique set of socio-cognitive skills (1,14).

lation [155-157]. Finally, it may turn out that some of the
