for itself the appropriate balance between morphological and fitness is measured as its ability to accomplish a task. Deviat-
neural complexity in response to the particular environment ing from much of the previous work in ER, the TOL adds a
and task under consideration. This has given rise to a thriving learning phase to the evolutionary cycle in which individual
field more generally known as morphogenetic robotics [16]: learning occurs after every new robot is ‘born’. Hale et al. [8]
defined in broad terms, this specifically includes approaches describe a physical implementation of the TOL, in which
to ‘the design of the body or body parts, including sensors robots are three-dimensionally printed then enter a simplified
and actuators, and/or, design of the neural network-based replica of the real environment dubbed the ‘nursery’. Here, a
controller of robots’ [16, p. 146]. In addition, the term also robot refines its skills before being released into the real
includes research dubbed ‘evo-devo’ which considers robots world. Furthermore, robots that fail to attain a defined
that can change their morphology over the course of their life- level of learning are removed from the system and do not
time [17]. In this article, we only discuss work that falls into participate further in the evolutionary cycle.
the former category, in that artificial evolution produces a Eiben and Hart further expand on the role of the learning
robot body whose controller can adapt over a lifetime phase in [21], arguing that it is in fact essential, particularly if
owing to individual or cultural learning mechanisms, but evolving directly in hardware. In the extreme case where
whose body remains fixed during this period. there is a complete mis-match between the number and
In order to develop a system that can achieve this in prac- type of sensors and actuators of parents and that of their off-
tice, evolution should act on a population whose individuals spring, any inherited neural controller is not likely to be
have a genome that encodes the information required to gen- usable, as the network will have an incorrect structure, i.e.
erate both morphology and control. However, this notion an incorrect number of inputs and outputs. In this case, a
raises a challenge for artificial evolutionary methods in the new control neural network must be generated that matches
design of the genome encoding. Assuming no prior knowl- the offspring body, and the weights of the network learned
edge of what type of robot is required for a task, then a from scratch [9]. On the other hand, using any representation
single population should contain a diverse set of genotypes that permits inheritance of controller with an appropriate
that encode for morphologically diverse body-plans. Here, structure for the child, then the learning process can act as
an artificial evolutionary system significantly diverges from a form of adaptation over the course of an individual’s life-