and settlement of intergroup conflict, with conflict pay-offs for individuals and their groups. Recurrent intergroup conflict within and across species’ generations has = 5

possible ultimate consequences on the individual, group and environmental level of analysis. (Online version in colour.) >
>
rivals [69,75]. In these and similar cases, intergroup conflicts [51,52] (also see [84,85]). Adding to past literature, several =
can take the form of ‘win-lose’ conflicts—both sides waste contributions to this theme issue converge on five key argu-
efforts but individuals in victorious groups typically earn a ments that determine what we can call the ‘conflict s
share of the resources captured, while defeated groups participation function’ p for individual i: >
remain empty-handed or worse. However, not all intergroup =
conflicts result in win-lose outcomes. In many cases, for Pi =f@, y, a1 a0, B), (3-1) os
example, when rivalling groups are of equal strength and where v refers to the expected material benefits of participat- S
invest equally in conflict, conflict settlement can take the ing, such as additional food or territorial access; y captures
form of a ‘lose-lose’ conflict. In fact, game-theoretic analyses the expected benefits of participating in terms of gains in 8
and empirical observations of intergroup conflicts across status and reputation among the members of one’s own =
social vertebrates reveal that in the majority of cases, group group (‘in-group); and a and ao denote the value the indi- “
defence is sufficiently strong to prevent defeat [73] (also see vidual attaches to the welfare and well-being of (members
[76,77]). Yet both failed attacks and successful defences are of) their in-group and rivalling out-group, respectively; 8
energetically costly and can involve physical trauma and denotes out-group threat as the magnitude of expected out-
casualties—neither side wins, and both lose. Finally, and at group aggression. Accordingly, arguments v and y capture
least in humans, conflict sometimes ends in a mutually the individual's ‘selfish’ motivation, and a, a and f capture
beneficial exchange on interests and positions, akin to a ‘win— the individual's ‘social’ motivation to join intergroup conflict.
win’ conflict in which both sides earn some share of the Each argument in f may have a positive or negative effect
contested resource that at least partially offsets the costs of on the probability of participating in group conflict. Accord-
participation in conflict [78,79]. ingly, we can expect participation when, first, the expected
That often both groups survive intergroup conflict means material benefits of participating increase (dp;/dv > 0). Being