male groups are the norm. Diana monkeys may provide an species typically owing to variation in human disturbances of
estimate on how many females a male monkey may maximally the ecosystem (often driving predators to local extinction out-
monopolize as long as females evolved to consent: a group side strictly protected areas). The importance of BGC will
usually has a single adult male, but regularly about 10 females vary as a function of food distribution (clumped versus
[16]. The small testes size of males indicates the absence of spread) and territory/home range defensibility (the larger
any sperm competition [17], suggesting that the single male the home range, the more difficult it becomes to prevent intru-
monopolizes mating. Diana monkeys dwell in tropical rain- sions); and the benefit for females of the male contribution in
forests, a habitat that would facilitate hidden extra group this context will depend on sexual size dimorphism. The gen-
mating if females were seeking them. This example implies eral scenario for the implementation of hired guns and the
that females in other species that live in multi-male groups resulting multi-male multi-female groups is summarized in
of similar or smaller overall sizes ‘hire’ extra males as guns figure 1. Figure 1 primarily refers to evolved species differ-
for fitness benefits, potentially including fighting neighbouring ences, acknowledging that transitions may happen in both
groups [9,18]. In fact, females in many primate species directions [23,24]. Nevertheless, we acknowledge that there
have evolved numerous derived sexual features serving to may be sufficient behavioural and physiological plasticity
break the top-dominant male’s monopoly on mating and among females for intraspecific variation as well, as suggested
paternity [19,20]. by the literature on primate sexuality.

The aims of this paper are to explore the conditions under To evaluate the potential benefits and costs of adding a
which the hired gun hypothesis could theoretically work and male to the group, we developed a simple mathematical

to summarize the current evidence. Completing these tasks model, where we focus on the benefits and costs of group


low male fighting ability high male fighting ability high male fighting ability
high turnover rate of alpha male _ high turnover rate of alpha male _ low turnover rate of alpha male