cing the size of neighbouring groups may then yield a of rovers in the cooperatively breeding pied babbler
relative advantage in territorial disputes) or kidnap individ- (Turdoides bicolor), a group-living species where group size
uals from another group. Alternative strategies to increase has an important influence on group longevity and reproduc-
group size can also involve passive acceptance of new tive output and territory size can change significantly
group members, e.g. to form temporally limited flocks of between years [29-31]. We investigate whether there are con-
migratory birds [16,17], or longer term group membership sistent patterns that may explain the occurrence of alternative
when rovers—defined as individuals that leave their original strategies to increase group size (specifically intergroup
group and actively seek out and approach another group ina kidnapping and the acceptance of rovers into the group)
non-aggressive manner [18] —are accepted as group mem- and determine whether breeding success may be an impor-
bers. Here, we focus on a particularly active route to tant factor driving the occurrence of these behaviours.
recruiting new group members: raising intergroup young. Based on the results of our empirical data, we present a
In this case, a less obvious process known as group augmen- model that investigates the conditions where group benefits
tation may come into play [19], where current investment in alone are sufficient to counteract the fact that kidnapping
young forms a cost that has to be paid now, while the benefits brings, genetically speaking, a competitor into the group.
accrue only later when the young are no longer dependent, The model implies that kidnapping dilutes the probability
and their presence begins to contribute to group-level benefits. that future descendants from the group carry the kidnappers’

Usually, group augmentation benefits are discussed in the own genes, and we take this cost into account.

context of alloparenting intragroup young [19]. This creates a
combination of indirect and direct (albeit delayed) benefits,
making helping behaviour easier to explain. An alternative

route to increasing the number of group young is to invest 2. Methods
