without compromising the notable anti-herbivore function possible microevolutionary adaptation of nectar by plants— >
of GTX I in leaves and flowers. Far from a mere uploading which is generally held as the most important mediator of — _
of phloem constitutions, the production of floral nectar in interactions with mutualists [1]—may facilitate colonization = =
plants follows a complex, multi-stage process involving trans- of exotic habitat, such as occurs in the invasion process. We 5S!
port or de novo synthesis of components in various nectary conclude that pollinator-mediated selection and the sub- = 5
ultrastructures [1,60]. Such processes could hence form tar- sequent loss of nectar toxins are likely to have played a key =
gets for the adaptive modification of nectar, which here role in facilitating invasion by R. ponticum. These findings = &
may have permitted natural selection to act directly on in addition emphasize the centrality of pollinator health as =
nectar GTX I in the non-native range, while not compromis- a concept linked to the invasion process, and how post-inva- = 4
ing chemical defence in other tissues. By contrast, owing to sion evolutionary pressures can minimize lethal or sublethal ~~
the observed linkage between tissue types in native plants, effects on pollinators. However, beyond only plant invasions, =
positive selection on leaf toxin levels resulted in large indirect the generality of these findings on pollinator-mediated selec- D
selection on nectar toxin levels. tion may in fact be broad—given the relatively widespread

In relation to leaf GTX I levels and biotic selection press- occurrence of toxic nectar among plant families [3,5], and
ures imposed by herbivores, we accepted our final hypothesis where species are distributed over large ranges throughout
that any reduction in leaf GTX I levels would represent a which conflicting selective pressures by pollinators and
trade-off owing to its adaptive value against herbivory. herbivores may occur.
Here, positive directional selection was observed on leaf
and flower GTX I levels in the native range, consistent with Data accessibility. Data used in this study are available from the Dryad
the finding that GTX I conferred resistance against a general- Digital Repository: https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.6p46m [64].
ist herbivore of this species, and that young leaves with lower Authors’ contributions. P.E.: conceptualization, data curation, formal

analysis, investigation, methodology, visualization, writing—original
draft, writing—review and editing; P.C.S.: conceptualization, meth-