subsistence hunter-gatherer and farmer human populations sexual competitors, and as feeding time is reduced while ener-
[71]. Since these calculations, done in 2006, more cases of inter- getic expenditure owing to longer traveling distances is
group killings among the same and additional chimpanzee increased while patrolling [117]. Patrolling behaviour mostly
populations and communities have been reported [58]. In occurs in the border of territories, areas where the risks to
Ngogo, a large eastern chimpanzee community, from Kibale, encounter hostile neighbours and thus suffer injury are high
Uganda, mortality rates of a neighbouring community owing 57], and IGEs are often preceded by border patrols [94]. How-
to out-group aggression from the Ngogo community exceed ever, in the long term, the immediate costs associated with
rates from horticultural and hunter-gatherer populations by border patrols may be negligible if border patrols allow indi-
factors of 1.5-17 altogether [75]. However, given that exact viduals to access delayed benefits, such as securing space
demography of that neighbouring community was unknown, and feeding grounds and increasing the safety of group mem-
those numbers may be overestimated. Rates of non-lethal inju- bers. Furthermore, the chances of suffering injuries owing to
ries following intergroup aggression have not yet been encountering neighbours during patrols can be mitigated via
compiled, but the fact that only about a quarter of IGEs involve strength in numbers [32,70]. However, while the delayed out-
physical contact [27,32,47] shows that engaging in risky phys- comes of border patrols and IGEs may be overall more
ical fights during IGEs tends to be avoided. beneficial than costly, participants in these acts still suffer

Other types of costs are also incurred by out-group con- immediate costs with no guarantee that they will see a return.

flicts. In Ngogo, a series of fatal attacks over 10 years on
a neighbouring community led to a significant territorial

expansion by the Ngogo community [75]. Costs of out-group b) Fitness benefits of intergroup encounters: mate

conflicts in term of territory loss had beforehand been docu- attraction and territorial expansion
mented in other populations: after a series of lethal attacks, An additional benefit of intergroup conflict success and terri-