occur early along the developmental trajectory [12-15]. Inter- evidence for laughter in great apes was provided as well
estingly, great apes produce play vocalizations that show as a foundation that is based on the principle of maximum-
similarities with human laughter [10,11]. Often, these vocaliza- parsimony for phylogenetically testing the relationship
tions involve a series of low-frequency staccato grunts that can between great ape open-mouth faces and human laugh faces.
be easily induced by tickling in infants and juveniles [16,17]. Building on the laughter research, Davila-Ross et al. [26]
These vocalizations predominantly accompany open-mouth examined the facial muscle movements in laughing chimpan-
faces (play faces), facial expressions of play that often occur zees via ChimpFACS [27]. These chimpanzees were found to
on their own, i.e. as silent expressions [18-20]. part their lips while dropping /stretching their jaws and often
Such similarities in morphology and occurrence may they would also pull both lip corners back and upwards and
naturally lead to the notion of evolutionary continuity from raise their upper lips (revealing their upper teeth) as well as
primordial play expressions to human laughter and laugh their cheeks (causing wrinkles around the eyes, i.e. crow’s
faces of positive affect. In order to systematically reconstruct feet) [26]. These facial movements of the apes matched
the evolutionary pathways of human hard-wired behaviours, those of laughing humans that were measured with FACS
it is key to lean on the principle of maximum-parsimony, [28-32]. Collectively, the two studies revealed that human
where the most likely explanation involves the least number laughter as well as laugh faces have a pre-human basis (for
of predicted evolutionary changes [21]. Thus, the first step a more detailed reconstruction, see [33]).
toward reconstructing laughter and laugh face evolution is The finding of the upper-teeth exposure in laughing
to examine hominid expressions within the context of play, chimpanzees [26] was in line with observations of silent
thereby making predictions about the last common ancestral open-mouth faces in playing great apes [34-38]. For illus-
ape species of extant great apes and modern humans. trations of the upper-teeth exposure, which is primarily
To place laugh vocalizations within the multiplex caused by the contraction of the levator labii superioris
phylogeny of the Hominidae, Davila Ross et al. [22] analysed muscle, in four species during play, see figure 1. These dis-
tickling-induced vocalizations of immature great apes and plays (also referred to as ‘relaxed open-mouth bared-teeth
human infants. Their phylogenetic trees based on acoustic displays’ or ‘full play faces’) stand in contrast to the ‘relaxed
data revealed a topology identical to the well-established open-mouth display’, which shows a relaxed upper lip with