considered to be a little unseemly. that the reduction in alertness and cognitive abilities asso-
Following the initial live broadcast, this laughter episode ciated with sleep inertia markedly reduce the amount of
proved very popular, featuring on the following day’s BBC laughter being produced (e.g. [23]). Sleep inertia is a transi-
sports reports, and earning its own radio programme 30 tory period between sleep and full alertness and is marked
years later (https://www.bbc.co.uk/ programmes /p09v432k). by a desire to return to sleep: at the same time as sleep inertia
There were many anecdotal stories of cars pulling to the is having its effects on cognition and alertness, the cortisol
sides of the road, the drivers unable to drive safely as the awakening response is occurring, which can result in an
clip had made them laugh so much. On the 30-year anniver- unpleasant affective waking state. Either or both these mech-
sary programme, it was claimed that the cricket laughter anisms may be suppressing laughter when waking up. Other
excerpt is the second most popular spoken word sequence to physiological changes can reduce the production of laughter:
have been selected on Desert Island Discs, the longest running anxiety inhibits tickling responses and (presumably) laughter
radio programme in which guests choose eight tracks vocalizations in rats [24]. In humans, people with social
(normally musical pieces) to take to a fictional desert island. anxiety report an increase in laughter (along with enjoyment
This short radio clip is still highly popular in the UK, and and the feeling of acceptance) when they consumed a
it is typically described as ‘hilarious’ and ‘the funniest thing I moderate amount of alcohol, an anxiolytic [25].
have ever heard’. However, it is worth considering why this The role of social context in laughter has been extended to
whole sequence is regarded so fondly and considered to be so children—for example Addyman and colleagues found that
amusing: again, the research of Robert Provine and others 3- to 4-year-old children were eight times more likely to
can help us understand this. laugh at humorous material with other children around

them than if they were on their own [26].
Provine and Fischer's finding of a dominant role for social

2.1. Social laughter—30 times more likely to laugh and emotional context in priming laughter [22] was a critical
The first factor that this clip demonstrates is that laughter is a step in delineating the ways that positive emotions interact