
This fundamental connection between affect and sociality is ship (Dutch and Japanese) could be reliably identified by
highly recognizable universally. listeners hearing both spontaneous and volitional laughter.

One interesting cultural difference emerged in the study of Overall, the spontaneous laughter was judged as more

spontaneous and volitional laughter [42]. Participants from positive-sounding by all listeners, and Dutch listeners (but
small-scale societies, defined roughly as people living in small not Japanese listeners) thought laughter from their in-group
villages with low market integration, had a slight bias to was more positive. As described earlier, knowing what
report laughs as volitional, or ‘fake’ as they were asked. This category a laugh belongs to can only be confirmed with
bias caused them to be more accurate for this category (at the certainty by examining cortical activity during production.
expense of accuracy for identifying spontaneous laughter). It One possibility in this study is that a majority of the laughs
is impossible to know what exactly caused this criterion shift. were in fact volitional, but varied in portrayed arousal (caus-
One possibility is that societies composed of relatively smaller ing some to be judged as spontaneous), and as such revealed
groups of recurrent players might result in individuals sensi- group identity. The spontaneous laughter was recorded
tized to the volitional nature of social pleasantries that better while participants watched a self-selected funny video, but
characterize larger societies where a much higher proportion laboratory conditions can easily hinder spontaneous per-
of social interactions are between people who have never met formances. An earlier study [46] found that Dutch listeners
and could easily not have a repeated encounter. Put simply: could not discern in-group from out-group vocalizers from
they think American college students sound fake. Because of a set of laughs including speakers of six languages (Dutch,
potential greater costs of errors in more close-knit communities, English, French, US American, Japanese and Namibian).
heightened sensitivity to emotion and intention detection could But spontaneity was not tightly controlled in the stimulus
be adaptive in small-scale societies to a greater extent than in set, and the task was rather difficult, with listeners needing
larger, industrialized societies where one-shot interactions to choose from six categories. More research is certainly
with strangers are commonplace and generally benign. needed to explore this issue.