that are incongruent to expectations, which further under-

(d) Strengths and limitations lines their functional similarity to human laughter and
Our study aimed to investigate the different shades of laugh- smiles [9,38,39]. Hence, in many contexts, laughter and smil-
ter in response to external events and the social perception ing may be interchangeable behaviours with the only
and reaction to others’ laughter in response to these events. difference that smiling can be considered a weak version of
It may not be a big surprise that, on average, schadenfreude laughter [40] during which the same facial muscles are acti-
and disgust scenes elicit less laughter than genuinely funny vated albeit less strongly [37]. Consequently, both
scenes. Yet, it is interesting that complex cognitive processes, expressions may have had the same inherent meaning and
such as evaluating whether an emotional reaction of a also similar implications in the context of our study. Thus,
counterpart to an external rather ambiguous event is appro- we suggest that—especially as spontaneous facial mimicry
priate, have such notable effects on automatic ballistic reactions are typically more subtle and not of the same
processes such as mimicry. In fact, mimicry reactions intensity as prototypical (posed) emotion expressions [41]—
occurred within the first second of the stimulus presentation. smiling in response to laughter should have been an
As participants did not see the reaction videos simul- appropriate proxy for shared laughter (ie. laughter mimicry)
taneously with the scene videos but a few seconds to even that signals affiliation and fosters bonding [20].

minutes later, they had to remember the scene and quickly
assess the appropriateness of the behaviour. Still, the effect
was large; laughter in response to disgust scenes was not

commonly mimicked, whereas almost every single partici- 6. Conclusion
pant mimicked laughter in response to funny scenes. Thus, Laughter is an ambiguous phenomenon that has opposing
our study not only shed light on laughter and its positive effects—even at the same time. Laughter mimicry in response
and negative consequences for the expresser and the to an event that may evoke schadenfreude means, on the one