leaves). Some or all of these modules are produced through- systems, as recently discussed elsewhere [43,44].
out the active life of the plant, and their rate of production, In animals, such a complex descriptive language for the
position and turnover is controlled by continuous feedback distribution of sexual function is lacking. That is not to say
from the environment. Plants can be seen as populations of that there is not vast reproductive variability in animals. The
modules and their growth and form described by birth- terms monoecy and dioecy, as borrowings from botany, are
death demographic equations [32]. This has considerable con- used to describe this (and occasionally the various polyga-
sequences for sexual reproduction. The most obvious is in the mous terms too, but these are rare). In the sponges, for
plasticity of reproductive output; the same or similar geno- example, both ‘monoecious’ and ‘dioecious’ species occur. ==
type in a favourable environment may produce orders of Some coelenterates approach plants in forming gonads in ©
magnitude more flowers and seed [33]. This reproductive response to weather and in releasing gametes according to Ss
plasticity is a potentially a feature of any clonal growth and environmental cues, as in some corals. Corals may be dioe- =:
thus applies widely in plants. cious or monoecious and may form same sex or mixed sex 5!
More significantly perhaps is the fact that reproductive colonies. There may be imbalances in the numbers of sexual >
modules are produced iteratively with their production in organs: the New Zealand flatworm Anonymus multivirilis has =
time and space controlled by an interaction between genotype over 200 penises (male complexes) arranged around its periph- = &
and ‘environment’ (considered broadly as the external environ- ery and a single female copulatory organ [45]. In molluscs, =
ment and the physiological status of the plant). This allows fora there may be strict dioecy, as in cephalopods. Other molluscs = 4
large number of reproductive strategies involving the specific are monoecious, and some species change sex (oysters are a s
placing of sexual function in time and space. These strategies well-known example). Monoecious molluscs vary in the inde- =
are well explored in flowering plants but could also profitably pendence of their sexual organs, which are free in some but =
be further explored in other groups. Flowers may be bisexual combined into an ovotestis in others. The ovotestis, a single
and can be produced in large dense inflorescences which are gonad producing sperm and eggs, is possibly the nearest ana-
highly attractive to insects but risk geitonogamy (selfing by logue to the angiosperm hermaphrodite flower which also
transfer of pollen between different flowers of the same individ- brings the sexes close together. Arthropods are largely dioe-
ual), or they may be spread out on the plant. This leads, inter alia, cious although hermaphrodites do occur. The same is true of