sexual systems between higher plants and animals if not issue by Kafer et al. [18], who find that the occurrence of lability
more problematic at least more complex [3]. (ie. production of male and female gametes in single individ-
Discoveries in animals also led to the discovery of plant uals) is not generally related to the number of sex-linked genes
sex chromosomes. Microscopically dimorphic sex-specific or the age of the non-recombining region.
chromosomes were discovered in insects, with Nettie That plant and animal systems of sex determination may
Stevens’s 1905 work especially important because she was have more in common than even Allen [16] suspected
the first to concretely show that the Y chromosome was is apparent from a recent theme issue of the Philosophical
involved in sex determination and that sex itself was a Transactions B devoted to vertebrate sexual systems, whose edi-
Mendelian trait [14]. It can be argued, however, that tors conclude that, ‘This group encompasses lineages without
Correns’s [15] demonstration of sex determination being a sex chromosomes, such as hermaphrodites and species with
Mendelian trait, for which he used experimental crossings environmental sex determination, as well as those with sex
of two species of Bryonia (Cucurbitaceae), preceded the chromosomes at different stages of differentiation, which
insect work by 2 years, a fact that did not always sit well makes vertebrates an ideal model system for comparative
with zoologists [16]. There were no sex differences in the studies’ [19]. This statement is just as applicable to plants.

Bryonia chromosomes though. The first plant sex chromo-
somes seen through a microscope instead were those of a
liverwort [17], which Charles Allen looked for because of . . . wpe
the distinct X/Y chromosomes found in insects, 2. Key topics addressed in this special issue

Allen [16, p. 101] was prescient about another similarity

between plant and animal sexual systems: ‘Since zoological wri- (a) The evolutionary differences between animal and

ters have shown neither undue modesty nor excessive caution plant separate-sexed systems