marker gene expression was widely used as a criterion to dis- from the embryonic VE from which it originates, than the = &
tinguish between embryonic and extraembryonic tissues. embryonic VE is from the extraembryonic VE [63]. It would =
Such gene expression patterns can be used to demarcate the therefore be interesting to see how the fate of AVE cells differs =~
boundaries between tissue types at a given time, but from that of other VE cells contributing to the gut endoderm as s
do not necessarily remain unchanged as development pro- a consequence of this inferred transient transcriptomic diver- =
gresses. For example, the extraembryonic TE can be gence. Such computational inferences can provide important a
distinguished from the embryonic ICM of the early blastocyst insights, but need to be verified experimentally.

by the expression of Cdx2 in the former and Ocf4 in the latter Multiomic approaches such as sCNMT-Seq (a method for
[95,96]. However, during development, the same genes are the parallel profiling of chromatin accessibility, DNA methyl-
often reused in different tissue types, in close succession to ation and the transcriptome from single cells) have also

each other. Cdx2 is in fact regulated by two distinct cis-enhan- proved to be powerful in determining what might be con-

cers in the TE and its derivative, the extraembryonic ectoderm, sidered the ‘default’ state of cells and their immediate fate,

with in vitro TE-derived trophoblast stem cells being more simi- based on their epigenetic potential [15]. However, with data-

lar to extraembryonic ectoderm in this respect [97]. Therefore, sets covering limited windows of developmental time, it can

the degree to which blastocyst-derived stem cells (embryonic be challenging to determine the embryonic or extraembryonic

stem (ES), trophoblast stem and extraembyonic stem cells) status of cells, as it has to take into consideration all sub-

can recapitulate their respective precursors can vary and in sequent fate choices made by the cell up until birth.