(figure 4b). In Drosophila, the sharpening of BMP gradient after gastrulation In Drosophila 8
during blastoderm cellularization is conserved (figure 4c) The amnioserosa of Drosophila signals to the adjacent epider- -
but the broadening of the BMP gradient at the beginning of mis. In response to this unidentified signal, the dorsal-most
gastrulation is reduced (figure 4d). epidermal cells (DME cells) adopt a unique cell fate [56].
Serosa specification is not only dependent on BMP signal These cells divide synchronously and form a ‘mitotic
but also on BMP-dependent Zen expression. That also applies domain’ during the fourteens mitotic cycle [57]. This suggests
to amnioserosa specification in Drosophila, although suppres- that they are genetically distinct from other cell populations
sion of zen in Drosophila results in excess embryonic tissue by the time the embryo undergoes rapid germ band exten-
rather than amnion tissue [44]. Both processes occur at a com- sions (stage 8). When germ band extension slows down
parable stage, that is, during blastoderm cellularization. and zen expression in the amnioserosa fades (stage 9) the
Differences in positioning the zen-expressing extraembryonic DME cells activate Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signalling
cells along the anterior-posterior body axis between the two [58]. Grindelwald (Grnd), a receptor in this pathway [59], is
species account for the fact that the zen domain of Drosophila expressed in the dorsal epidermis [60], but how the JNK path-
(amnioserosa anlage) partly invaginates with prospective way is activated in the DME cells remains unknown. Grnd
hindgut tissue (proctodeum) whereas the zen domain of Mega- may respond to signals from the determinants of apical cell
selia (serosa anlage) remains at the surface of the embryo [22]. polarity in the dorsal epidermis and/or to Egr, a ligand of
Amnion specification is accompanied by transitioning from Grnd, which is expressed in the amnioserosa. Egr transiently
BMP-dependent to BMP-independent zen regulation so that reduces tissue tension at the leading edge of the epidermis
broadening of BMP-signalling at the beginning of gastrulation to allow transepithelial migration of macrophages at the
does not result in a broadening of the serosa anlage. Instead, extended germ band stage (stage 11) [61]. However, egr is
increased BMP activity at the rim of the germ rudiment sup- not essential for germ band retraction and dorsal closure
presses embryonic pattern formation in this prospective [42,62], whereas various other JNK pathway components
amnion territory. are essential for this process [58,63]. Therefore, egr may not
Like the sharpening of the BMP gradient during blasto- be essential for activating JNK signalling in the DME cells.
derm cellularization, the spatial changes in BMP activity at JNK activity promotes adhesion of the DME cells to the