the case of emotions. I suggested that we reserve the use of mental implications of the common language terms.
mental state terms, like ‘fear’, for the mental state that the That said, there is a place for everyday words about mental
word names, as opposed to using such terms to describe states in the psychological and brain sciences. They are the coin
behavioural and physiological correlates of the conscious of the mental realm, and are necessary when talking about our
experience of fear. For example, rather than treating amygdala mental lives, even scientifically [51,57,59,60]. Summarizing
circuits activated by threats as ‘fear’ circuits of either kind such views about the special role of common language in
(physiological or subjective), | proposed that they be called psychology, I wrote this in my 2015 book Anxious [47, p. 40]:
‘defensive survival circuits’ (figure 1). After all, they control Physicists, astronomers, and chemists don’t need to take
both defensive behaviours and the physiological responses seriously commonsense ideas about nature because people’s
that provide metabolic support for the behaviours in danger- beliefs and attitudes about the stars, matter and energy, and
ous situations. I also suggested that the procedure called ‘fear chemical elements don’t affect the subject under investigation.

The fact that we commonly say (and some may actually believe)
that ‘the sun rises in the east’ does not have any scientific bearing
on the fact that sunrise is an illusion. But psychologists do have to

conditioning’ be referred to as ‘threat conditioning’.
The fact is that ‘threat’ and ‘defense’ were already com-

monly, though inconsistently, used in the field. All I did was pay attention to folk psychology because people's common
suggest that we use the psychologically more neutral terms, beliefs about the mind influence their thoughts and actions in
instead of the one’s with subjective implications, when refer- daily life and are thus an important part of what psychology is

all about. Folk psychology is a window into the things that inter-
