tinue to do in spirit, if not substance, as do many other especially memory-based schema [116,117], the sensory rep-
current cognitive theories of emotion [105-111]. resentation of an apple is not meaningful as an instance of
A popular cognitive approach theory of emotion takes a the fruit of that name [118]. My multistate representation
constructionist perspective [105,112,113]. My approach falls model makes memory an essential underpinning of higher-
roughly into this camp to the extent that it treats conscious order consciousness, including emotional consciousness
emotions as cognitive conceptions that are assembled in the [94,96-98] (figure 3).
moment, rather than being elicited as innate mental states. I In the brain, for memory to impact visual perceptual
was on this track long before it carried the constructionist label. consciousness, the activity of temporal lobe memory systems
The typical constructionist perspective views the con- must be integrated with the sensory signals. A key way this
ceptions underlying emotions as the result of interactions occurs is by way of interactions between sensory cortex and
between two generalized activities in the brain, valence and temporal lobe areas, especially medial temporal lobe regions
arousal, and minimizes the importance of innate, species- such as the hippocampus and perirhinal cortex [119].
typical processes. This reflects constructionists’ battles with Schema, in fact, are believed to be assembled and used by
the so-called basic emotions theories, which treat core way of hippocampal interactions with medial PFC [117].
emotions like fear—including the conscious experience of These sensory-memory representations, including schema,
fear—as innate products of subcortical circuits [35]. My are then further represented by connections with prefrontal
model falls between basic and constructionist theories. cortex areas, including the orbital, ventral medial and anterior
Like basic emotions theories, I emphasize innate circuits cingulate areas located in the medial wall of the hemispheres,
(in my case defensive survival circuits rather than fear cir- and the insula cortex buried deep in the Sylvian fissure. Each
cuits) that control behavioural and physiological body of these, in turn, interact with lateral PFC areas (dorsal and
responses elicited by threats. But unlike basic emotionalists, ventral latera and frontal pole), by way of various intra-
and like constructionists, | view the conscious experience of PFC connections [120], as discussed in detail elsewhere
fear as a product of cortical, cognitive activity. Unlike tra- [2,90,94,96]. In the context of my higher-order theory, the
ditional constructionists, though, I think of arousal and medial wall and insula areas are considered ‘intermediate’
