29]), in the context of our data, vocalizations appear to express processing, but are reduced when speech sounds are artifi-
signaller’s own emotional arousal, and cause the recipient to cially distorted to disrupt the connection between sound and S
experience it through the vocal communication of a signaller, meaning [36]. Gestural communication facilitates formation ~~
as a variation in the state of physiological activation, indicated of the representations about goal of the social interaction =
by heart rate [30], cortisol secretion [31] or nasal temperature with weak social bonds, suggesting a potential important *
32]. High intensity vocalizations (e.g. alarm call) influence role of these behaviours in language evolution. Psychophar- ~
recipient’s behaviour by increasing their heart rate and corti- macological studies examining the influence of dopamine on
sol. The role of vocalizations in maintaining weak social language processes showed that dopamine enhanced value
bonds rather than forming new social connections is sup- encoding in speech [37]. This suggests that cognitive proces-
ported by the data showing that when social bonds were sing of primate gestures might be affected in a similar
weak chimpanzees used gestures to initiate change of activity manner to language processing. Cognitive skills underpinning
by the recipient, whereas vocalizations maintained ongoing gestural communication therefore probably preceded language
activities. The fact that only vocalizations and not gestures or evolution.
bimodal signals co-occurred with a longer duration of time However, the claim for gestural origins for language con-
spent feeding in close proximity, supports this suggestion. founds language capacity with language expression (and has
This is further supported by the results showing that the size no explanation for why it should have switched from gestures
of the social network increased in association with the size to voice in humans). Humans use speech/language not to
of the network of gestural but not vocal signals. manage close relationships (strong ties, which we deal with
One interesting finding was that when weakly bonded mainly by gestures) but to manage distant weak ones, just
dyad partners interacted, the intentionality markers had a as our data suggest is the case of chimpanzees. Language as
different effect on the recipient, depending on the type of an adjunct to grooming to allow group size to increase
communication. Gestures accompanied by intentionality beyond the limit at ~50 that we can manage via grooming.
markers elicited approach, whereas with vocalizations Although the cognitive skills underpinning language
accompanied by intentionality markers elicited avoidance. may have first evolved in gestural modality of
Social environments impose chronic and acute stress on pro- communication, the language evolution may have occurred