hood are kin-biased [47]. Cases where females provide care from it. In our study, subgroups called at higher rates when
and protect mature sons, and vice versa, can be found in individuals may have been trying to obtain information
the spider monkey literature [47,70,71]. The presence of a from the other individuals that were joining the subgroup
mature son may also help dissuade aggression directed (e.g. identity or location), that is, during a fusion. Addition-
towards the mother herself or towards younger offspring ally, more calls were registered when subgroups changed
and therefore, be a factor in promoting a mother’s overall their sex composition (from one to two sexes, or vice versa)
reproductive success [47]. Also supporting these results, than when sex composition remain stable. It seems, then,
adult females may be more prone to respond to the whinnies that there is a more evident ‘negotiation’ based on whinnies
of their juvenile offspring than any other juveniles [31]. This during periods of greater tension and/or uncertainty, such
suggests that contact calls in spider monkeys also play a role as the arrival of individuals of the opposite sex.
in mother-offspring spatial coordination. We did not find significant differences between subgroup
We have analysed contact calling rates at the individual call rates emitted 45 min before and 45 min after fission-
and subgroup levels. Individual calling rates differed fusions, probably owing to the fact that the change in sub-

between contexts, albeit by small amounts. These small group composition is a continuous process, rather than an


instantaneous event. Therefore, we cannot conclude that the
emission of calls before or after fusion or fission could influ-
ence the individuals to join or leave from the subgroup.
Complementary studies would be necessary, taking into
account the position of two subgroups before they fuse and
the exact time and distance between all individuals.

In terms of the possible mechanisms underlying vocal