lometric evidence that even 14-month-old infants can just how they acquire such understanding. Perhaps it is = =
simultaneously represent two mutually exclusive possibili- simply a process of routine biological maturation, such that =
ties, which contrasts with previous studies showing that any child who receives a basic degree of physical and social = &
children younger than 4 years struggle to prepare for such care develops the capacity as a matter of course. Another =
possibilities (e.g. [17]). The authors attempt to reconcile the intriguing idea, however, is that environmental inputs play S
discrepancy by suggesting that young children may be lim- a more active role in the emergence of children’s grasp of pos-
ited in their action planning and decision-making abilities, sibilities. In their review, Grigoroglou & Ganea [57] propose =
rather than limited in their conceptual understanding of pos- an important role for language, such that children observe o
sibilities per se. Alternatively, however, one might hypothesize and use the language of possibility before they fully under-
that infants (and children up to a certain age) merely have stand the denoted concepts, and, in turn, their familiarity
implicit access to dual possibilities—perhaps drawing on with this language gradually enables their conceptual under-
similar neurocognitive mechanisms to those outlined by standing to mature. One potential mechanism of this
Comrie et al. [36]—without necessarily being able to explicitly language-concept feedback loop is polysemy, or the fact that
envision such possibilities and reason about logical relations words used to denote modal concepts tend to have alterna-
between them. Much further work is required to uncover the tive, simpler meanings. For example, children may learn the
precise reasons for the apparently contradictory patterns of simple meaning of modals (e.g. You may go now) through
findings from infants and older children [19]. observation (such as noticing the absence of a physical barrier
Explicit reasoning about possibilities can take various in the physical world) and then extend these meanings
forms, as demonstrated by the protracted development of to more abstract, epistemic cases (e.g. He may be at work).
the human imagination. In this issue, Harris [48] reviews evi- This type of ‘conceptual bootstrapping’ through linguistic
dence suggesting that, by 2-3 years of age, children can mapping [58] has been proposed for other domains of
imagine and draw appropriate inferences about possible knowledge (i.e. number knowledge).
events and situations. Around this age, children can sustain The discrepancy between notions of single possibilities
a pretend play situation with a partner, attending to the actions and modal possibilities is also a recurring point of contention
of the partner within the constraints of a shared alternative in the developmental literature on counterfactual reasoning.