rather than past personal episodes (e.g. ‘What if New York this tendency varied. For instance, when people generate
was the capital of the US’) [1,17]. eCFT of past events that were self-initiated they tend to focus
In recent years, these and similar variations on counter- on internal and more controllable factors relative to when
factual simulations have been explored using diverse they generate eCFT of past events that were initiated by
neuroimaging techniques to clarify how different DMN others, in which case they focus more on external and less
regions contribute to each type of hypothetical thought. Gen- controllable ones [26]. Additionally, depressed individuals
erally, simulating eCFT preferentially recruits dorsomedial are more likely to modify internal aspects of past decisions rela-
prefrontal, lateral prefrontal and cerebellar regions to a tive to non-depressed individuals, who tend to report more
greater extent than episodic future thinking and visual per- eCFT involving external changes [27,28]. More recently, Girotto
spective shift [5,18]. However, the engagement of the DMN et al. [29] showed that the tendency to mentally mutate internal
during eCFT varies based on whether the eCFT is upward aspects of past decisions may have been an artefact of past
5] or downward [6], and whether its possible occurrence is experimental designs, as most research on counterfactual
perceived as more or less plausible [16,19]. Thus, inferior thinking involved reading vignettes depicting fictional charac-
and middle portions of the frontal gyrus are recruited ters making choices. However, when individuals made choices
more as upward eCFT are perceived to be more plausible, for themselves, their post-decisional eCFT were much more
while temporal regions—including hippocampus and likely to modify external rather than internal aspects of the

parahippocampal gyrus—are recruited more as downward choice. Given the importance of perceived control in eCFT,


and its impact of behaviour modification, it is important to
understand the cognitive mechanisms underlying the differ-
ence between internal versus external loci of action initiation
in the mental simulation of alternative possibilities.
