acted differently to bring about an alternative result (internal In particular, generating external eCFTs engaged the precu-
eCFT), or we may imagine how circumstances of the past neus, angular gyrus and occipital regions to a greater extent
situation could have been different so as to have altered than internal eCFTs, even after accounting for activity related
what actually occurred (external eCFT). The current study to naturally retrieving a memory.
sought to shed light on the mechanisms underlying these To understand these effects, one must consider that the
kinds of mental simulations by investigating behavioural mental simulation of external eCFT probably involves a kind
and neural differences between upward internal and external of mental ‘decentring’ [44], whereby one changes the focus of
eCFT derived from negative autobiographical memories. attention from oneself onto the surrounding context. From
Consistent with our hypothesis, and in agreement with that perspective, the preferential engagement of the angular
previous research [42], we found that participants reported gyrus in external eCFT is consistent with numerous findings
less difficulty simulating internal relative to external eCFT. showing the importance of the angular gyrus for the multimo-
Additionally, participants tended to perceive alternative dal integration of contextual information in the generation of
possibilities in internal eCFT as being more plausible than episodic simulations [45]. In fact, recent studies employing
in external eCFT, and tended to think of imagined alternative transcranial magnetic stimulation have shown that temporarily
outcomes during internal eCFT as being more controllable disrupting activity in the angular gyrus affects the capacity to
than alternative outcomes during external eCFT. These generate coherent episodic simulations, including auto-
results are consistent with our predictions, given that in the biographical memories [46,47]. Likewise, mentally simulating
internal condition participants were specifically instructed changes in the circumstances surrounding a particular past
to think about how their own actions could have created an situation probably requires processing, updating and manipu-
alternative outcome to the negative event. lating spatial information from the episodic memory upon
We then examined whether external and internal eCFT which the eCFT is based. As such, the engagement of these cog-
engaged distinct neural regions within the DMN. First, we nitive operations probably explains the recruitment of the
employed a data-driven multivariate analysis using a mean- cuneus and precuneus, which have been shown to be critical
centred spatio-temporal PLS approach. The PLS analysis for spatial and perspective-taking shifts during the mental
revealed a single latent variable significantly distinguishing simulation of imagined episodes [48-51]. Behaviourally, per-