We may engage, for instance, in upward eCFT, and imagine been cloudier that morning)’. This difference in counterfactual
how an event could have turned out better, which has been thought reflects a well-known distinction in social psychology
shown to elicit feelings of regret and disappointment [12]. By between internal and external loci of action initiation. Individ-
contrast, we may engage in downward eCFT, and imagine uals, according to a pioneer proposal, feel the result of an action
instead how the past event could have been worse, which as depending ‘on two sets of conditions, namely, factors within
in turn elicits feelings of relief and contentment [13]. the person and factors within the environment’ [21, p. 551].
Furthermore, the modification of retrieved autobiographical Actions initiated by or within oneself are known as internal,
memories during eCFT can involve the addition or subtraction while those that are brought about by changes in the
of details [14] as well as the manipulation of the perceived environment are considered external [22-24].
plausibility of the imagined scenario [15,16]. Moreover, Earlier work on counterfactual thinking suggested that
counterfactual thoughts can vary depending on the degree to people were more likely to mutate internal aspects of an
which they involve semantic—as opposed to episodic— event, insofar as they were perceived to be controllable [25].
information, as when we mentally modify factual knowledge However, subsequent work found that when it came to eCFT,
rather than past personal episodes (e.g. ‘What if New York this tendency varied. For instance, when people generate
was the capital of the US’) [1,17]. eCFT of past events that were self-initiated they tend to focus
In recent years, these and similar variations on counter- on internal and more controllable factors relative to when
factual simulations have been explored using diverse they generate eCFT of past events that were initiated by
neuroimaging techniques to clarify how different DMN others, in which case they focus more on external and less
regions contribute to each type of hypothetical thought. Gen- controllable ones [26]. Additionally, depressed individuals
erally, simulating eCFT preferentially recruits dorsomedial are more likely to modify internal aspects of past decisions rela-
prefrontal, lateral prefrontal and cerebellar regions to a tive to non-depressed individuals, who tend to report more
greater extent than episodic future thinking and visual per- eCFT involving external changes [27,28]. More recently, Girotto
spective shift [5,18]. However, the engagement of the DMN et al. [29] showed that the tendency to mentally mutate internal
during eCFT varies based on whether the eCFT is upward aspects of past decisions may have been an artefact of past
5] or downward [6], and whether its possible occurrence is experimental designs, as most research on counterfactual