In this article, we first present evidence that human [12] or to make us more vigilant to future hazards. Indeed,
adults, children and even non-human primates are motivated parents who have lost a child report becoming more protective
to seek counterfactual information—they behaviourally over their other children [13], although it is not known whether
exhibit counterfactual curiosity. Drawing on both empirical counterfactual thoughts play a role in this behaviour change.
findings and contemporary theories of curiosity, we propose Although not extensively examined, there is also evidence
that counterfactual curiosity shares many of the same hetero- that children at least at the age of 8 years have spontaneous coun-
geneous processes as other types of curiosity. Specifically, terfactual thoughts. Guajardo et al. ([14], study 2) showed that,
we suggest that it is motivated by the potential use of coun- when asked to comment on events in stories, children aged
terfactual information for adaptive decision making (its long- between 8 and 11 years will often use counterfactual statements,
term instrumental value) and the drive to reduce uncertainty. particularly when the stories have unexpected or negative out- = =
Additionally, we suggest that counterfactual information has comes. Payir & Guttentag [15] demonstrated that, between the >
several inherent features that make it alluring, providing can- age of 8 and 12 years, children begin to use downward counter-
didate processes that motivate seeking of counterfactual factual statements such as ‘it could have been worse’ asameans =:
information. We discuss the extent to which these processes of consoling others, but do so less than adults. Spontaneous —-S'
can explain seeking of counterfactual information even counterfactual thinking may even emerge as early as the pree  &
when it has no obvious immediate use or might elicit nega- school years. Harris et al. ([16], experiment 3) asked 3- and 4- =
tive emotional experiences (such as regret). Finally, we year olds to explain negative events and how they might have = &
discuss the implications of this motivational account of coun- been prevented. Children referred to alternative courses of = =
terfactual information and suggest potentially fruitful action in around a third of their explanations of the negative out- S
avenues for future research. come, and in most of their suggestions for how the outcome — ~
could have been prevented. Some children (19%) spontaneously =
referred to alternative courses of action in their explanation of
. . the outcome of the very first trial, prior to being prompted to
2. Evidence for counterfactual curiosity think about alternative actions.
Counterfactual curiosity can be defined as motivation to seek We believe that spontaneous counterfactual thought may