cal partisanship. Accordingly, partisanship predicts which came to occurring, the more they may blame the relevant
counterfactuals people find most plausible [12]. For example, leader—but especially if they oppose (versus support) that
partisans are more likely to believe that a lie ‘could have been leader. In this way, partisanship may moderate the impact of
true’ if it aligns with their political views [13]. counterfactual closeness on moral judgement.

However, previous work neither predicts nor tests how This conceptualization extends the idea that when people
these two empirical regularities may relate to each other. are motivated to reach a conclusion, they set lower evidentiary
When partisans consider how a political event or policy could standards for reaching it [20]. For example, participants exam-
have been different, do they gravitate towards upward counter- ined the qualifications of a disliked person less thoroughly than
factuals [7] or towards counterfactuals in whichever direction those of a person they liked [21]. Facts provide stronger evi-
happens to fit with their political views [12]? We predict the dence than counterfactuals. However, when a _ particular
latter. In other words, we propose that political partisanship conclusion aligns with a partisan’s views, he or she may be
creates an important boundary condition on people’s general less likely to require factual evidence of the conclusion; coun-
preference for upward counterfactual thinking. terfactual evidence may suffice. For example, counterfactual

There are at least two reasons to predict partisan effects thinking played a bigger role in partisans’ judgements of
on the direction of counterfactual thinking. First, different media hypocrisy when the partisans were motivated to dismiss
partisans are motivated to reach different conclusions. Whereas the media as hypocritical than when they were not [22].
laypeople’s counterfactual thinking may be motivated by a Extending these ideas, we propose that the closeness of a
desire to improve following a negative event, resulting in downward counterfactual seems like a more compelling
upward counterfactual thoughts that point the way to better- reason to blame someone when the target of blame is some-
ment, partisans’ counterfactual thinking may instead be more one a partisan opposes (versus supports). Specifically,
motivated by a desire to justify and defend their political when partisans think poorly of a leader, they may be more

views, resulting in more flexibility about the direction of inclined to blame that leader for a negative outcome that