remembering at what moment in time the block moved and ments come apart in this paradigm is that the truth of the
whether it would have moved early enough so as to get out hypothetical (or counterfactual) depends on a factor that is
of the way (or into the way) is more difficult to assess. independent of the causal event of interest (ball A’s presence).
It is worth noting that the simulation model captures the Whereas in the counterfactual condition, participants get to
effect that the initial position of the block has on participants’ see whether or not the block moved, participants in the
counterfactual judgements. For example, participants’ coun- hypothetical condition do not know. This makes it such that
terfactual judgements are slightly higher in clips 4 and 8 the hypothetical of what would happen if ball A was not
than in clips 1 and 5. When the block is initially in the way, present is different from the counterfactual of what would
there is some chance that it is not going to move out of the have happened if ball A had not been present. Participants in
way in time. So the chances of ball B being blocked is a little the hypothetical condition were more uncertain about
greater in clips 4 and 8 than in clips 1 and 5. On the other what would happen than participants in the counterfactual
hand, the model predicts a larger difference between counter- condition were about what would have happened.
factual judgements for clips 2 and 6 versus clips 3 and 7 than The simulation model accurately captured participants’
what was observed. When the block stays put in front of the hypothetical and counterfactual judgements. The model
gate, there is only a very small chance that ball B would assumes that observers may be uncertain about how exactly

have gone through the gate if ball A had not been present in ball B would have moved in the absence of ball A, and at


what point in time the block would have started to move.
These two sources of uncertainty are sufficient to explain
the overall pattern of responses.

4. Experiment 2: causal judgements
