they become subject to communicative norms and thus makes sense as long as everyone involved takes [skaetphat] to
become powerful choice architectures that people can wield stand for the concept ‘scalpel’.
in acts of social influence and coordination. In this way, different concepts mandate different kinds of

response. Suppose we want to distinguish between two
words of similar meaning—for example, the English words
speak and talk. Given its focus on the O-axis, the cognitive

7. Normative choice architecture science of concepts has typically viewed this as a question
With language—and uniquely in the animal world—the self- about the mental images denoted by different words and
generating distribution of interpretants/signs is subject to would address the question by seeking to define their seman-
normative constraints [62]. Our interactions are kept on the tic elements. But because the semantic definition of a concept
rails by the fact that the producer of a sign may be held is, essentially, a statement of its demand character, we can
accountable at any point for any perceived lack of appropri- also study the concept denoted by a word by looking at the
ateness [63]. Norms dictate that we cannot depart from the kinds of response that the word invites." Consider speak
mutual expectations of our pacts without explanation [64,65]. versus talk.

If the word scalpel denotes a concept, this means at least A frequent challenge for crisis negotiators is how to keep
two things. First, the sound-image [skaetp"ot] stands for a the person-in-crisis engaged in conversation. English-speak-
concept of scalpels. Second, the concept—whichever seman- ing negotiators will sometimes use the word talk (e.g. in
tic theory we apply in defining or analysing it—is kept Can I just talk to you) and at other times speak (e.g. in I’d like
effectively stable by public accountability among members to speak with you; [68]). From an I-axis perspective, the differ-
of the population in which the concept is conventionalized. ences in the concepts denoted by speak and talk will be
Not only do people know, to a tolerably convergent degree, evidenced by differences in interpreter response. Thus, in
what the concept of a scalpel is and what it refers to (its crisis negotiations, attempts to keep someone in conversation