12,13] for further discussion), in all cases counterfactual opmental differences in cognitive abilities not specific to 3
competence appears to emerge later than pretence abilities. counterfactual reasoning or pretence. Together, this supports iat

A number of experiments have reliably shown that 4- the hypothesis that causal reasoning during pretence may

year-olds can accurately reason counterfactually about deter- draw upon the same emerging cognitive capacities as counter- s
ministic physical causal systems ([12,14,15]; see [16] for factual causal reasoning, and perhaps that early emerging =
related results with older children). For example, both Buchs- pretend abilities may even support the development of later &
baum et al. [14] and Nyhout et al. [12] used ‘blicket machine’ counterfactual reasoning abilities.
style tasks (see [17]) where children were introduced to a Intuitively, such a link might exist because both pretend play
novel machine and learned to activate it by placing a specific and counterfactual reasoning are quite similar—both require the
block on the machine. Then children answered counterfactual ability to ‘quarantine’ reality in order to reason about alternative
questions about this newly learned physical causal relation- fictional possibilities and their outcomes [2,3,22-24]. For example,
ship. Nyhout et al. [12] found that, in a ‘blicket machine’ while pretending, a child may imagine that a banana is a tele-
task, preschoolers were able to correctly reason about overde- phone, then work through various instances of what would
termined scenarios, where an outcome has multiple causes happen if it were indeed a telephone rather than a banana.
(e.g. would the machine still have activated if only one of This is structurally similar to thinking through counterfactual
two ‘blickets’ was removed), despite struggling with overde- scenarios, where a hypothetical change to a premise may bring
termined counterfactual scenarios until much later ages in about a range of different outcomes, and an agent must reason
other contexts (e.g. [12,13,18]). about the various possibilities.

Most relevant to the present paper, Buchsbaum et al. [14] As discussed above, researchers have found that children
argue that pretence and counterfactual reasoning exercise the spontaneously pretend at a much younger age, around 18
same underlying causal reasoning mechanisms (see [19,20] months, than they first demonstrate competence in counterfac-
for similar arguments) and provide correlational evidence tual reasoning, around age 4. In fact, the experimental