4. Artefacts and features which communicate also unknown (but may be to do with increasingly large
and internally differentiated societies), the advantages of

thoughts about the future this behavioural change meant that messages were able to
Language enables humans to broadcast their expectations, be transmitted beyond a single interaction. They could now __
plans, and reflections, and much of human conversation is last for significant periods of time, including across lifetimes =
about events displaced in time. Mental time travel and (being transferred from one individual to another [122]), and =
language are closely related [102], and both are open-ended could be altered or rearranged to transmit new messages = >
because they draw on the capacity to recursively embed [123]. Durable ornaments were also able to be accummulated =
elements into larger structures [103,104]. So, evidence for in greater and greater numbers, allowing increasing visual = &
the origin of language may conceivably inform us also impact and an amplification of the messages they convey
about the evolution of foresight. However alas, in spite of across generations. Because beads and pendants can transmit S
considerable scholarly attention, the facts of language evol- information about the labour costs involved in their creation, —
ution remain to be established (e.g. [105-108]). For the these items provided an excellent format for social com- =
present purposes, we therefore focus on aspects of communi- petition, conspicuous displays of individual and group &
cation about the future that have left traces in the wealth, social networks, and community cohesiveness. As
archaeological record. such, durable ornaments could become more and more com-

Archaeologically, the classic evidence for thinking about plex in their use and be designed to benefit wearers not only
possible futures has been burial [109]. While it is possible now, but in the future. The earliest examples of such orna-
that communities buried their dead simply to deter scaven- ments appear in the archaeological record from around
gers or effectively dispose of a decaying corpse, the careful 142 000 years ago, where a collection of 33 Tritia shell beads
placement of a body and especially the inclusion of grave from Bizmoune Cave, Morocco demonstrates a long-standing
goods is generally considered evidence that people were tradition of shell bead use had already developed by that
burying the body out of shared concerns for the deceased time in northern Africa [124]. This use of durable body