TRANSIT-VEHICLE—that linked the target and match. This ten- land-Hassan et al. [7].)
dency of the distractor items to modulate the nature of the Having noted that concepts of both imperceptibles and
concept tested, and the difficulty of the task itself, will be perceptibles can be tested through the use of pictorial seman-
highlighted below. tic memory tasks, let us return to the question of whether the
Importantly, many of the trials in the Cactus to Camels explanatory challenge presented by class (i) concepts (mini-
test are not categorical trials, in that they do not ask partici- mally abstracted concepts of perceptibles) is of a
pants to match depicted instances of a certain kind of thing fundamentally different kind than that presented by class
with each other. Instead, they require one to determine (iv) concepts (highly abstracted concepts of imperceptibles).
which two items are associated with each other—where the A natural assumption is that, if there is an important differ-
associative link can take a variety of forms. In simple versions ence in these classes of concepts—either in how they are
of this kind of trial, a piano may be matched with a piano acquired or in the kinds of representations or cognitive mech-
bench, or, indeed, a cactus with a camel. In these trials, the anisms underlying their use—that difference should show
target and match have a thematic link, consisting in the fact itself in participant performance. This assumption has risks,
that the two items are commonly found together in a certain of course, as it may be that participants perform equally on
kind of setting. The link is thematic and not categorical the two kinds of task, despite their requiring the use of

because (unlike the two mass-transit vehicles) the piano quite different kinds of concepts and cognitive abilities. Or


it could be that, despite their posing different cognitive chal- (and thus low Brysbaert et al. [20] concreteness ratings)

lenges, all else being equal, other kinds of differences in the being rated more abstract than those with high concreteness

trials (such as the familiarity of the items) counteracts those ratings.*
