mechanisms of human interactive learning. communicative outcome of that interaction [39,62]. Rich
In our work on social learning online [27], we found that visual cues may enable stronger attunement by providing
visual social cues (teacher—face and hands) impacted learn- more information about the interaction partner’s gaze and
ing differently depending on whether learning was mental states [112,113]. Alksne [114] looked at what features
interactive (student engaged in a live lecture) or observational in teaching videos improved the quality of the lecture in a
(student learned from a pre-recorded video of a previous ses- group of young adults; they found that speaking over the
sion): in two experiments, we showed a strong interaction presentation and making eye-contact significantly improved
effect between social contingency (live versus recorded con- student engagement, which in turn has been positively

trast) and social richness (whether the face of the teacher associated with learning outcomes [115].


The fact that we somehow use our body to achieve a discussion on this). In conjunction with studying interperso-

better attunment with our intelocutor(s) during social com- nal brain synchrony, it is critical to understand the
munication has been recently well demonstrated by Fini coordination of actions and how that relates to shared knowl-
et al. [116]. In their study, they asked adults to guess concrete edge states (see [122] for a comprehensive framework of
and abstract concepts from some photos, while being in inter- neural synchrony and its behavioural references). This may
action with an avatar. The avatar moved following the be particularly useful when learning from or teaching to
previously recorded kinematics of a real actor’s arm, from someone else. In the case of interactive learning, the co-cre-
which human movement was implicated to the avatar. ation of knowledge and understanding is functional to the
They found an association between sociality (as measured learning process: ideally, the teacher would want to share
by motor imitation and motor synchrony between the partici- information, and the learner would want to tune in to their
pant and the avatar) and guessing of abstract concepts. They teacher to receive and process that information, while both
argued that greater motor imitation showed by the learner would remain sensitive to feedback coming from their inter- = =