cognitive diversity, such as tasks and problems involving Sometimes a distinction is made between functional and
processes of abstraction. identity diversity [17,117]. Functional diversity relates to
differences in the cognitive style, perspectives and strategies
group members bring to the interaction, for example how
4. Collective processes shaped by group to mentally approach a problem. However, groups might
sys also benefit from identity diversity, which refers to differences
composition in demographic factors and traits of individual members and
As stated previously, social interaction can facilitate infor- their competences. Identity diversity can stimulate more flex-
mation integration and mutual adaptation to an extent that ible and novel thinking among group members by prompting
increases the potential of the group, and dialogical interaction individuals to revise their perspective and solutions in light
seems to generally be a good strategy for reaching better sol- of other diverse perspectives [118-120].
utions across many domains and tasks. On the other hand, Introducing diversity in group interactions can potentially
this conveniently ignores the fact that social interaction is not assist in de-correlating the information being exchanged and
a one-size-fits-all, and several observations have been made restoring reliability [56]. The assumption here is that individ-
in terms of how properties of the task or the dynamics of the uals are sampling solutions from their different individual
interaction itself modulates the collective achievements of background knowledge, while also acquiring new information
groups. For instance, while dynamic interactions are often from sources that are not too similar. For example, introducing
viewed as the paradigm case for increasingly better alignment diversity in groups who had already increased the collective
and coordination between group members, individuals may accuracy of wisdom-of-crowds from open discussion, was indi-
also align too much. cated to bring even larger benefits [74]. In the study, group
As individuals interact and mutually adapt to each other, members were re-sampled from other groups to cancel out
they are also subject to continuous social influence and thus previous experiences and convergence in a post hoc analysis.
become increasingly similar, that is, less unbiased and indepen- As a result, local correlations were broken, and average accu-
dent. As a result, the information being exchanged becomes racy was increased. This is in line with previous literature
correlated and redundant which can reduce the reliability of suggesting that diversity of opinions is a central element in