delay their processing. The evidence that the mouth motor port of others, which may consist of linguistic explanations, is, S
system is more activated with abstract than concrete concepts therefore, pivotal for acquiring them. Consistently, they are =~
does not allow concluding that articulation is necessary for acquired later than concrete concepts and predominantly through = =
abstract concept acquisition and processing. However, it testi- the linguistic modality (Modality of Acquisition, MoA, [1]). xs
fies that linguistic experience is likely important for abstract During this acquisition phase, inner speech might per- ~
concepts, with the mouth motor system activation as a proxy form different functions. While that of rehearsing and
for language involvement. The stronger activation of the inwardly repeating the word meaning might not be specific
mouth motor system suggests that language, and possibly to abstract words but extend to concrete ones [40], it is poss-
inner language, is used to access the conceptual meaning. As ible that we might need to rehearse more newly acquired
we will detail in ยง2, we might use different kinds of inner abstract words in order to codify and consolidate them in
speech endowed with different functions during conceptual memory because they are more crucial for keeping together
acquisition and word processing. Notably, the relevance of the category members. This might occur for various reasons,
the mouth effector holds only for spoken languages; it is poss- including the fact that abstract words are less iconic because
ible that, in the case of sign languages, the activation of the less richly perceptually featured.
mouth motor system is substituted by that of the hand motor Consider research intending working memory as a con-
system. A similar argument can be made for inner speech: if tinuous resource rather than as being constrained by a fixed
mouth/lip movements are detected, it can be a strong clue number of slots [41]. Studies show the advantages of visually
that inner speech is present. But not detecting such movements salient stimuli and indicate that the noise level increases with
should not be taken to imply that there is no inner speech. the increase of the number of stimuli, provoking a decline in

Given the apparent importance of language in conceptual working memory precision. Consistent with this, the noise
processing, it becomes critical to determine which kind of level might be higher for concepts collecting heterogeneous
language and which functions of language are more crucial exemplars and whose members are less visually salient, like
for the acquisition, representation and use of concepts, abstract concepts. Because the to-be-acquired label refers to
particularly abstract ones. multiple exemplars, we might need to repeat it more.