than three quarters of existing species becoming extinct) of our genus had reached Eurasia, but not ventured beyond
occurred soon after, some 450-440 million years ago (Ma). it. The intercontinental migration of our species took place
Most species of organisms were still marine at that time; an during a period of glacial expansion that lasted from 110 000
estimated 86% of all species disappeared permanently over to about 10000 years before present. Humans had ventured
the course of a few million years. Apparently, widespread to Eurasia by 70000 years ago, soon reaching Australia and,
continental glaciation and the associated rapidly falling sea no more than 17500 years ago, North America, from which
levels were prime factors driving their disappearance. they migrated over the following several thousand years to
The second mass extinction event occurred in the Late the southern reaches of South America.
Devonian Period, 375-360 Ma. Like its predecessor, and It is estimated that no more than 2% of the species that
even though terrestrial plants and animals were quite diverse have existed during the history of life on Earth still exist
by that time, it was mostly the marine ones that went extinct, today. They form the ecosystems that support us today, =
with half of the genera and more than two-thirds of the with our dependency on biodiversity complete. Indeed, we =>
species that existed at that time disappearing. ourselves are a part of biodiversity, a fact that we disregard Ss
By far the most severe extinction event the world has only at our peril. Not only have the organisms with which = =
experienced until now was followed at the boundary between we share this planet formed the ecosystems that shaped the = 5'
the Permian and Triassic periods, about 251 Ma. It included composition of the air we breathe, the water that we need = >
the only recorded mass extinction of insects, along with for survival, and the soil on which we grow our crops, they =
more than two-thirds of the species of terrestrial vertebrates continue to purify the air and the water and condition the = &
and some 96% of all species of marine organisms. Perhaps soil. Recently, we have divided the characteristics of our =
as many as 95% of all species that existed earlier disappeared! dependency into the major categories of ecosystem services:
Various global calamities occurred at about the same time, provisioning, such as the production of food and water; s
but it is not clear which of them triggered this major cata- regulating, such as the control of climate and disease; sup- =
strophe, which permanently altered the nature of life on porting, such as nutrient cycles and oxygen production; Ss
Earth. Entire groups of organisms that had been abundant and cultural, such as spiritual and recreational benefits.
or even dominant earlier disappeared, with others evolving These services exist because of interactions between organ-