ception of smells varies: there seems to be no general smell, the difficulty in naming smells in the laboratory may
conceptual space of odour quality that our individual mind not capture how people name smells in real contexts, when
could represent [3,31,32] for overviews. Some attempts to rep- these smells may be more relevant. Various questionnaires
resent olfactory experience in a similarity space have been measure people’s ‘attitudes towards the sense of smell’ [39],
thought to yield positive results [33]. However, these results ‘odour awareness’ [40] or ‘subjective significance of olfaction’
capture a space whose dimensionality is not within the reach [41] but they tend to focus on the role of smell in behaviour
of humans, especially if we compare to other conceptual (cooking, cosmetics and gardening) and less on how often
spaces that humans seem to navigate with ease, such as the or how easily people recognize smells or label them. The clo-
three-dimensional space of colour. Even using a limited set sest relation to naming is that people would report being
of 851 stimuli and 278 odour descriptors, yielding a 278 x 278 exposed to a diversity of smells in childhood and later do
dissimilarity matrix, Mamlouk et al. [33] find that 32 dimen- better in an odour naming test [42].
sions were needed to capture the conceptual space, as a The problem then comes not just from the experimental pri-
trade-off point between high and statistically stable relaxation vilege granted to concrete source terms, but from the fact that
and the highest sustainable dimensional reduction. Whether using more abstract or general terms may be perhaps easier
we can cognitively use such high dimensionality remains ques- for participants. In order to avoid asking participants for
tionable: with our memory and cognitive capacities, it may be purely source-based responses, Poulton [43] had the idea to
impossible for us to represent or make use of a space that has present (Australian) participants with 40 different scents, ran-
that many dimensions. ging from pleasant to less pleasant ones, and ask them ‘How
Mapping smells to words is challenging, and so is map- does it smell?’ as opposed to ‘What does it smell like?’. Descrip-

ping words to smells. Generating olfactory imagery from tions were then coded by independent evaluators, using a


revised version of Majid and colleagues’ system [13]. Under congruent colour (e.g. [49], see [50] for review) than with | 5 |
