support the emotional grounding of abstract concepts by gen- because there is no comparison with concrete concepts, ie.
eralizing the account to data from new languages, adding a the study does not allow concluding that the facilitatory role
much-needed cross-linguistic dimension to a literature that is of emotionality is specific to abstract concepts. Thus, the follow-
largely focused on abstract concepts in English. However, a ing sections (§§2a,b) focus on studies that include both concrete
closer look at the same data reveals that the idea of emotional and abstract concepts to allow a comparison with respect to
grounding characterizes, if at all, only a very small minority of how much they interact with emotional valence.

concepts. Much of the recent discussion on abstract concepts
has argued that we need to recognize that abstract concepts

as a group are characterized by heterogeneity [19,55,61,62]. (a) Evidence for emotional grou ding

For example, a recent cluster analysis of semantic rating A key piece of evidence for emotional grounding is the fact
data found evidence for at least four kinds of abstract concepts: that emotional valence ratings are related to concreteness ratings
(i) philosophical and spiritual, (ii) self and_ sociality, in the manner of an inverted U-shaped pattern. Specifically, rela-
(iii) emotion and inner states, and (iv) physical, spatio- tively more strongly positive as well as relatively more strongly
temporal and quantitative concepts [55]. As stated by Pecher negative concepts are relatively less concrete [17,59]. This pattern
[31, p. 502], ‘abstract concepts should not be considered as a has generally been captured with polynomial regression models
single kind of concept’. Fully in line with this emerging recog- that include a quadratic emotional valence effect, thereby model-
nition that there are distinct varieties of abstract concepts, this ling the fact that more neutral concepts are relatively more
paper argues that emotional grounding has been erroneously concrete, and both positive and negative concepts are more
predicated on all abstract concepts. Finally, in line with many abstract. Newcombe et al. [57] also showed that a measure of
critiques of concreteness ratings [19,20,63-65], this paper ‘emotional experience’—the relative ease with which a concept
empirically demonstrates that once we operationalize concrete- evokes emotional experiences—is negatively correlated with con-
ness differently, the relationship between emotional valence creteness ratings (r=—0.26). Similarly, Villani ef al. [55]