relevant account to the dialectical misattunement hypothesis cognition from an interactor’s point of view’ ([101]; see also
within the sociological field is the ‘double empathy problem’ [76,102,103]). In fact, it has been suggested that social inter-
(DEP), which insightfully questions the ontological status of action in and of itself might even constitute—rather than
autism as articulated in prominent cognitivist accounts in merely contextualize or enable—social cognition (cf. partici-
favour of an interactional and relational one [88]. Although patory sense making; [24,104]). In our opinion, what is
the DEP has been an important idea, helping shift the crucial in this debate is to preclude the empirical paradigm
perspective to autism away from methodologically indivi- from a priori prioritizing selected aspects of human
dualistic approaches, it still remains relatively agnostic experience and psychopathology.
about the key psychophysiological processes. In a nutshell, collective psychophysiology comprises a
In a nutshell, due to various conceptual and methodo- recent empirical paradigm that synthesizes and extends exper-
logical, but also societal constraints, sociological and imental and observational approaches, ranging from strictly
psychophysiological processes have been largely studied in structured and free viewing tasks to real-time social interaction
isolation [89,90]. In fact, it has been suggested that the study and real-life aspects. This allows for the controlled recording
of the single brain can be in-principle sufficient to understand of high-resolution datasets from multiple modalities, while
(social) cognition [91]. The dialectical misattunement hypo- retaining adequate degrees of ecological validity. In figure 1
thesis aims at dialectically synthesizing the levels of the one can find an example of a two-person psychophysiology
individual and the collective through a principled approach. set-up, designed for studying the multi-scale dynamics
Adopting a Vygotskian perspective, it considers the historical of dyadic real-time social interactions in high resolution in
and social construction of the atypical self, while adhering to the laboratory.
a scientific understanding of not only interpersonal but also Recording robust and meaningful datasets is the first
interrelated neurobiological mechanisms. Taken together, the crucial step towards capturing the essence of complex
dialectical misattunement hypothesis hopes to serve as a tool phenomena. However, the development of suitable analytical
for the theoretical, methodological and empirical study of the methods is of paramount importance. Typical summary
multi-scale dynamics of psychopathology pushing beyond measures, averaged over time, offer convenient descriptions;
both reductionistic and descriptive accounts. yet, when it comes to non-stationary processes and chaotic-