very meaningful for musical instruments. People also produce results suggest that concrete concepts/word meanings like
systematic ratings, rating bugles and trombones as hard, but ‘piano’ and ‘giraffe’ are readily placed along relatively
moving downward (from hard to soft) one can see interesting abstract dimensions even when they seem quite meaningless,
cases of bimodality (see electronic supplementary material, such as placing musical instruments along stupid~smart or
figure S4B): some people think flutes are soft; others think animals along religious<secular. One interpretation is that
they are hard; the same goes for cellos and pianos. As con- the representational space within which these concepts
firmed by subsequent investigations, these differences are reside contains task-independent information corresponding
due to some people interpreting the dimension in a more literal to these dimensions. Alternatively, the smartness of an instru-
sense—the hardness of the material from which the instrument ment or the religiosity of an animal may only be defined
is made—while others interpret it in a more abstract, metapho- when people are asked to make an explicit dimension
rical sense—the hardness of the sound the instrument makes.° rating as they were when indicating where the words fall
In short: the reason there is signal in seemingly meaningless along various semantic dimensions. It may also emerge as
dimensions is that they are not, in fact, meaningless. a consequence of people projecting conceptual represen-
Dimensional similarity was found to be a type of simi- tations into a common semantic space for the purposes of
larity that predicted convergence rates in Experiment 2, and mapping between disparate domains. We cannot distinguish
the best predictor of goodness ratings in Experiment 3. At between these possibilities with our current data.
the same time, explanations relying on dimensional similarity A final question is, where does information allowing
offered in Experiment 1, despite being very frequent, had people to project, e.g. musical instruments onto the stu-
relatively low convergence, i.e. there was a larger variety of pidesmart dimension, come from? We speculated earlier
such responses. Is there a paradox here? We think not. that it may reflect social stereotypes, but this just pushes
What is likely happening is that some types of similarities the question up a level: how do people learn those stereo-

are more constraining than others. For example, constraining types? We were curious whether some of the information

