current context. over time between motor and sensory representations can
be computed. Importantly, convergence between represen-
tations in the internal space is influenced by the actions that

(e) Semantic content in the internal representation are actually taken in the environment and the subsequent
Space changes in sensory inputs. Thus a convergence signal can
However, how can we establish that these internal represen- be used to detect motor-sensory contingencies or action-
tations have meaning in the sense of being grounded in the effect associations in the high-dimensional continuous
external environment? Also, how can we fix the semantic stream of sensorimotor experience. Given that the signal of
content of a representation in the internal space? convergence is entirely defined in the representational space ==>
We have now the resources to provide an answer to this and is used as a reward to guide learning of the represen- 5
question. We start by noticing that the internal dynamics of tational space itself, it can thus be interpreted as reflecting =
convergence between representations is in fact also a measure an underlying intrinsic motivation for competence acqui- =
of the agent's success in achieving her goal. Similarly to the sition, a motivation to become able to effectively interact _
action-based view of grounding, the content of a represen- with the environment [52]. =
tation is determined by the conditions in which the action Results of an in silico experiment in an object manipulation S
guided by the representation is successful, the success task have provided evidence that even when an agent begins >
conditions of the action [34], which, in our approach, corre- its life in an experiential ‘blooming, buzzing confusion’, it can =
spond to the convergence conditions of the relevant learn to control its initially random behaviour in a goal-
internal dynamics. Therefore, we propose that a point x in directed way (intentional action) while at the same time devel- =
the topologically aligned internal space refers to—is oping a behaviourally relevant categorization system that 3
grounded in—condition C in the environment if and only if supports meaningful perception. Interestingly, the proper
the sensory representations X, %s, Xp activated in the internal alignment of the categories in the policy map with those in =
space would converge with the representation of the policy the visual map makes it possible to select and specify the =
x, that is being used to control the closed-loop interaction action, not only in an exogenous or stimulus-tied mode but