tion and action (as in [39]), the perception of an external indicates the current value of the signal y. This sequence
event should be sufficient to prime the action system to shows how representations change their position and their
select a behaviour aiming to reproduce the target sensorimo- distance from the policy representation so that they get
tor state that has been learned in that context, its goal. One closer to it in the final timestep. It is easy to see how, in the
way to check if this integration has been achieved is to given example, representations begin to converge first in
explore the internal dynamics of the agent’s internal sensory timestep 35, when the visual inputs become similar to the
representations during an episode. This representation target. Then an increasing convergence signal is triggered at
dynamics is affected by the continuous stream of sensory timestep 39 when the agent actually touches the object with
inputs during the episode and it should converge towards a pattern of activation that is even more similar to the
the region in the common representation space that is defined target touch allowing also for the internal somatosensory rep-
by the selected policy. The dynamics of the internal represen- resentation to converge with the policy representation. Thus
tations during behaviour can be viewed as moving towards the analysis of the internal dynamics of representations
an attractor, which is in fact the goal that the agent is during behaviour once the topological alignment is acquired

pursuing. shows that the agent is able to select the policy that will


reproduce the motor-sensory contingency relevant for the meaningless. Thanks to this comparison, the convergence | 14 |
current context. over time between motor and sensory representations can
be computed. Importantly, convergence between represen-
tations in the internal space is influenced by the actions that

(e) Semantic content in the internal representation are actually taken in the environment and the subsequent
Space changes in sensory inputs. Thus a convergence signal can
However, how can we establish that these internal represen- be used to detect motor-sensory contingencies or action-