(those that cannot be taught with mimesis); to maintain a com- a first prototype of language (like the brothers’ Wright
munal order that is partially based on imagination, because proto-airplane), but to something that is decidedly not yet a
different members of the group live very different lives (this is language: it does not have a grammar. Maynard-Smith and
the root of Benedict Anderson’s ‘imagined communities’ [48]); Szathmary assume that the capacity for protolanguage is
and to negotiate a collective worldview that now includes at its shared with the apes, and suggest that it was recruited
centre imagined entities, imagined beliefs (beliefs not based on when hominins began to collectivize as a result of the dire
experiencing, private and collective) and imagined norms— need to communicate for survival [7]. In this scenario, proto-
and everything else that follows from the new ability to instruct language definitely looks like the Wright airplane: a first
the computational dynamics of the others’ imaginations. prototype of the thing itself.
All this, I would like to argue, allows for a major re-think- This way or the other, the idea that something like protolan-
ing of the process of human evolution, as a coevolutionary guage was the tool of communication responsible for our
spiral driven throughout by the emergence and further devel- ancestors’ collective achievements before full-fledged language
opment of tools of instructive communication: mimetic misses out on the most important empirical fact about proto-
communication, then language (then the modern tools, language. Wherever we see small lexicons emerge without
which deserve their separate discussion). Each of these, in grammar—in the beginning of language acquisition in chil-
its turn, allows for the emergence and further development dren, or in rudimentary pidgin languages constructed for
of new levels of collaborative computation, which allow the commerce between speakers of different languages—they
emergence and further development of new levels of cumu- clearly emerge on the basis of a very intensive engagement
lative culture. Throughout the process, individuals in mimetic communication. As a matter of fact, mimetic
gradually come to be selected for their ability to participate communication is incomparably more efficient than protolan-
in the game, in terms of both computation and communi- guage as a tool for the on-site coordination of practical
cation, which means that every generation can push the collaborative work—exactly of the type that challenged
entire system a bit further. Every such push deepens the early Homo erectus. Even today, with our full-fledged
dependency of communities and individuals on collaborative languages, we very often retreat to mimesis when we do prac-
computation, which requires the invention of more tools of tical things together. When we teach complex practical skills—