all types of biological activities on Earth. Their ubiquity, arrival one decade later of systems and synthetic biology
association to eukaryotic hosts and inter-kingdom HGT abi- 86,87]. These new conceptual and material frames are re-

lities [75] produce a flow of signalling and information empowering the field for addressing environmental pollution
through virtually all life forms. As the main contributors of problems that were considered intractable before, including
biochemical activities and the ones that deliver the bulk of reversal of greenhouse gases emissions, elimination of plas-
material recycling in our planet, microorganisms are the tics and micropollutants as well as other large-scale issues = =
paramount candidates for bringing climate-related figures 12,88-90]. The scenario that enables this renewed opportu- >
to acceptable levels. As a matter of fact, the global environ- nity includes: (i) a much better understanding of microbial Ss
mental microbiome is already accredited for having caused ecology at multiple scales and the interplay of environmental — =
a number of major changes in Earth’s functioning along its bacteria with their surrounding physico-chemical settings; (ii) 5"
history (e.g. various anoxic events, HS emissions from the the realization of the microbiome and the microbial consortia a
seas, methane poisoning, the great oxygenation event, etc.) as the factual performers of biological activities previously =
and is thus proven to have the capacity to make a difference attributed to isolated strains; and (iii) the wealth of molecular = &
at such phenomenal scale [76]. Under such a perspective, the and computational tools available for designing, testing and iat
global environmental microbiome is the key ally that we have optimizing genetic constructs. Moreover, machine learning
for engineering interventions aimed at combatting climate (ML) and advanced modelling [91-93] now offers a much s
change and other anthropogenic insults such as methane safer ground for guiding and predicting the fate and effects =
[77], and other greenhouse emissions, plastics and chemical of releasing SynBio agents (SBAs) to different environments S
macro/micropollutants. Finally, the microbial world is the and scales [94,95].

ultimate repository of the metabolic diversity of the biosphere These developments have occurred at a moment when

[78] and the one endowed with the maximum capacity to the focus of pollution has moved from discrete locations
solve complex biochemical problems. The whole environ- (e.g. petroleum or chemical spills in given sites) to large-