For intuitive understanding, consider that at the start of the discretize collectives and fuel growth of cells) and a means >
experiment just one in ten communities bears close resem- of dispersal (to effect movement of cells between patches). __
blance to the phenotype of parental communities, with those As I move to consider opportunities for scaffolding in =
offspring communities whose colour is significantly worse human populations, behavioural, cultural, political, religious =
facing elimination at the next round of selection. Imagine, how- and legal structures greatly extend prospects for external = &
ever, that within one community a mutant red cell arises with imposition of Darwinian properties [40,41]. Such structures =
increased propensity to interact with green cells, such that half might constitute societal norms with adherence ensured by = &
of all offspring communities now closely resemble the parental way of social sanctions [42], or they may be imposed via =
type. Clearly, a community leaving offspring communities legal structures and enforced by state-level policing [43]. =
that with high probability inherit the parental phenotype will Routes by which humans might undergo future fraternal sy
rapidly replace communities whose offspring show a low ETIs are in principle conceivable, but in reality, they are likely =
fidelity of inheritance. unachievable and sit largely within the realms of science S
Innovations that underpin the evolution of heredity fiction. Humans exist within societies and societies differ pro-
are interactions. Drawing from recognized egalitarian tran- foundly one to another. Variation thus exists at the level of
sitions, extreme scenarios might involve acquisition of the societies. Even though human societies share many features
gene encoding RFP by the green bacterium (or vice versa), with social insects, human societies do not leave offspring
or engulfment of the red bacterium by the green (or vice societies that resemble parental societies in the way that
versa). Less radical solutions stand to arise from physical beehives leave offspring colonies [44].
attachment of red and green cells, or from the evolution Selection may nonetheless operate on societies [45,46],
of interactions mediated through allelopathic or density- such that one society may expand and replace another, but
dependent effects. this is largely an ecological process akin to replacement
The latter receives strong support from theoretical studies of red squirrels by grey squirrels in parts of the United
where models that allow evolutionary change in parameters Kingdom. Political, cultural and religious ideas may similarly
that affect density-dependent interactions show the emergence spread via horizontal transmission, thus selection may oper-
of developmental-like processes that correct for stochastic fluctu- ate on properties of societies [40], generating group-level