place through the flexibility afforded through cultural change. broad knowledge base, all embodied in the system of gather-
It is also the case that over time it is culture that influences ing and hunting. In this economic system, H. sapiens take

genetic change, so there is dialectical process at play [9]. their place as one of many species on Earth and to a great


extent their material life is dictated by the rhythm and transition. In all these species a sociality that enabled the | 3 |

dynamic of the more-than-human world. In this way, they deployment of a division of labour does not require agricul-
must be considered an embedded species. The feedback ture, but the division of labour becomes more extensive with
loops dictated by the imperative of mobility kept population agriculture, leading Hélldobler & Wilson to refer to the insects
density and growth rates low and limited material expansion. that practise agriculture as an example of an ‘extreme insect
In fact, by the time humans began the practice of cultivation superorganism’ [17]*. The questions posed here are where to
of annual grains the total human population on Earth stood place the transition to agriculture in the evolutionary history
at around 6-10 million people. One might say that hunting of humans; where to place agriculture, a particular type of
and gathering is an energetically contained system and not economic system, in the complexity of evolution; and finally
an energetically expansionary system. Homo sapiens resided whether it is correct to subsume the agricultural transition in] = >
in this type of economy for tens of thousands of years humans into the evolution of culture. 5
before they were collectively altered by the agricultural revo- The fact that agriculture is not the exclusive domain of © =
lution beginning 10000-12000 years ago. Once humans humans is curious, but the more important point is that the = =>
began the practice of grain agriculture, the trajectory, structure and dynamic of material life around agriculture are Ss
dynamic and organization of their economic life fundamen- unique, and the same for all species that made the transition =
tally shifted. This was not a continuum along a path, rather to agriculture. All species involved in agriculture engageacoe- 5!
it was a dramatic break from the past. volution that plays on and enhances the inherent tendencies of = >
Annual grain agriculture stands in contradistinction to the species that cultivate—this is especially apparent in the =