useful heuristics from satellite images and road schematics, tions in geometric methods (e.g. 3D points or vertices),
and can navigate to destinations that are up to 2km away learning-based methods acquire these abstractions based
from the starting location in new, previously unseen environ- on the capabilities of the learned skills. Thus, robots with
ments, using low-level policies and heuristic models trained different capabilities will end up using different abstractions,
on data from other environments. Evaluated environments and the representations of the ‘mental maps’ that result
include hiking trails, city roads in Berkeley and Richmond from such abstractions are not geometric, but rather
in California, suburban neighbourhoods, and office parks. describe the connectivity of the environment in terms of the
Figure 6 shows one such experiment, where the robot robot's capabilities.
successfully uses satellite image hints to navigate to a goal Such methods for robotic navigation have a number of
1.2km away without any human interventions. key advantages. Besides grounding the robot’s inferences
Note that the information from GPS and overhead maps is about traversability in actual experience, they can benefit
used merely as heuristics in the high-level planning algorithm, from large and diverse datasets collected over the entirety
and not directly incorporated in the observation space for the of the robot's lifetime. In fact, they can, in principle, even
low-level navigational skills. This illustrates an important prin- incorporate data from other robots to further improve gener-
ciple of the low-level versus high-level decomposition for such alization [85]. Furthermore, and perhaps most importantly,
learning-based methods: both the low-level and high-level such methods can continue to improve as more data is col-
components can utilize learning and benefit from patterns in lected. In contrast to learning-based methods that utilize
the environment, but they serve inherently different purposes. human-provided labels, such as imitation learning [23] and
The low level deals with local traversability, while the high many computer vision approaches [7-10], experiential learn-
level aims to determine which paths are more likely to lead ing methods do not require any additional manual effort to
to the destination. Note also that the approach for learning be able to include more experience in the training process,
the heuristic model is fairly general, and could potentially be so every single trajectory executed by the robot can be used
extended in future work to incorporate other types of hints, for further finetuning its learned models. Therefore, such
such as textual directions. approaches will benefit richly from scale: the more robots
