directed towards the body midline rather than away from it. With a similar reasoning we could expect that the systematic
The effect is robust and consistent across all participants. Cru- bias observed in the proprioceptively sensed location of static
cially, it was also found to be independent on the reaching and unseen hands towards the body midline [25,58,60,61]

hand, on the hemispace of action, and on their combinations, may play a role in the reported effect. The effect of embodiment


on the motor control of a virtual arm under visuo-propriocep- action redirection, the experimental dataset is extremely rich

tive conflict has been recently documented [55,62] and could and future works will be needed to go through it in more
be explained as an implicit motor component that acts to mini- depth. Inspecting classical kinematics indexes (e.g. peak
mize multisensory prediction errors [56]. According to the and time-to-peak velocities and accelerations) as in previous
model, this motor component is modulated by the perceived studies on reaching control may in fact add complementary
mismatch between the visually and proprioceptively sensed insights. However, a direct comparison with previous
locations of the arm and acts akin to a small force in the direc- works would not be straightforward, given that the continu-
tion of the visually perceived location. In the current study, ous visuo-motor manipulation adopted in our study is
for reaching actions redirected away from the midline the vir- profoundly different from those adopted in classical studies
tual hand is displaced closer to it, while the opposite is true on online motor corrections using discrete perturbations
for actions redirected towards the midline. The systematic [71,72]. A dedicated study will be therefore needed to
proprioceptive bias should then correspond to a smaller visuo- advance in this direction. Another aspect that deserves atten- = =
proprioceptive conflict for actions redirected away, as the pro- tion and that will be the subject of a follow-up study is the =
prioceptively sensed location is biased in the direction of the relationship between implicit and explicit strategies in _
virtual hand. The proprioceptive recalibration of the hand motor adaptation and learning [73-75]. Again, a comparison = =:
location at the end of the redirected reaching showed however with previous studies is not straightforward, because the = 5!
no dependence on the direction of the redirection corrections. visuo-motor manipulation adopted for redirection changes = =