regarding the egocentric distance to an object or location of therefore the posterior parietal areas are likely the substrates
interest will suffice to support planning of ballistic (e.g. underlying the encoding of scaled depth (exocentric dis-
throwing, lunging) or locomotor/ambulatory behaviours tances) within near space. Based on the tripartite encoding
(e.g. approach, retreat, navigation). hypothesis, this suggests that the perceptual phenomenology
The consideration of the psychophysical operationalization associated with the impression of stereopsis and realness
of visual depth cues also supports the logic of a tripartite dis- (object solidity, tangibility, negative spatial separation) orig-
sociation optimized for different regions of space. Derivation inates in the parietal cortex. Consistent with this prediction,
of scaled depth (exocentric distances) is thought to primarily recent neuroimaging evidence [88,89] reveals selective
rely on the scaling of binocular disparity by binocular distance activation of dorsal visual areas (posterior parietal cortex)
cues. There has long been debate on the effectiveness of for contrasts between conditions where the impression of
binocular distance cues (e.g. vergence, vertical disparity) for stereopsis is present (stereoscopic images, monocular aper-
derivation of egocentric distance (see [82,83]). Even if these ture viewing of single pictures) and conditions where it is
cues were valid, disparity scaling by vergence (or vertical absent (binocular viewing of single pictures). The fact that
disparity) would likely only be effective within reach space the same parietal regions are activated under both binocular
(1-2 m; [38,83]). This implies that available visual information and monocular stereopsis provides neurophysiological sup-
restricts effective derivation of scaled intra- and inter-object dis- port to the view that the phenomenology of object solidity,
tances to a limited region of space near the observer. By contrast, tangibility and spatial separation that underlies our
tasks requiring judgements of egocentric distance to targets in impression of realness of a 3D scene derives from cortical
action space and beyond (greater than 2 m; e.g. blind walking mechanisms that are independent of the specific cues (e.g.
to previewed targets) are thought to rely on ground plane infor- binocular disparity) that activate them. The fact that this
mation, perspective scaling and declination from eye level (see region of the brain also underlies visuo-motor control of
[48,68,84,85]), which are mostly useful only for distances outside reaching and grasping lends credence to the link between
the personal space of the observer (greater than 2 m). the phenomenology of stereopsis and realness and the
awareness of the capacity for motor interaction [13].
Existing neurophysiological evidence that has examined