(d) Tripartite encoding of 3D space: adaptive,

function of passability) could be altered by changing the psychophysical and evolutionary significance
visually specified eye height [81]. From an evolutionary lens, a full, scaled, master represen-
Notwithstanding a potential dissociation between the tation of 3D objects and space is unnecessary for many
perception of frontal and sagittal extents, there remains a visually guided behaviours. There would certainly have
phenomenological argument that aligns the two findings been no selective pressure to evolve such a unified represen-
described above (equilateral L task, and egocentric bisection tation early in the evolution of visual function (figure 3).
task) with the specific claim here of a fundamental dis- Instead, the selective pressure would have been to develop
sociation between encodings for egocentric and exocentric encodings adapted to the suite of visuo-motor capacities
distance perception. In the first case (equilateral L), the judge- available to the animal. For example, the awareness of a
ment, which appears to be an egocentric judgement, may in space partitioned into regions (or rudimentary objects)
fact phenomenologically be a comparison of exocentric ordered in depth (figure 4a), with the capacity to sense the
extents (the sagittal extent between observer and main distance to one or more of these regions/objects could sup-
target and the frontal extent between the two targets), port basic real-time planning of visually guided locomotion
where the sagittal extents are underestimated in comparison and navigation, even without awareness of 3D object shape
to frontal extents (as found in [39] and also found in Geuss or layout. Only animals with more advanced visuo-motor
et al. [79]). In the second example (bisection task), what and cognitive apparatus that can support more complex
appears to be a comparison of egocentric and exocentric real-time behaviour and planning (e.g. identification, recog-
sagittal extents (egocentric: the distance from the observer to nition and visual orientation) would benefit from an
the bisecting marker; exocentric: the spatial extent between awareness of 3D object shape and spatial layout. Similarly,
the marker and far target) may in in fact rely on attending only organisms with the motor apparatus for fine-grained
to and comparing, successively, the egocentric distances to visually guided manual behaviours (grasping, object
the target and the bisecting marker. Thus, these findings manipulation and organization) would benefit from encod-
are not necessarily in conflict with a proposed dissociation ings of exocentric distances (scaled depth) that can support