sanguinity refers to the probability that genes drawn from two ‘Correct. And did you know that if you divide the number of = >
parties—from the same locus—are identical by descent; the female bees by the number of male bees in any beehive in the
. . . world, you always get the same number?’ =
ratio of the consanguinity of actor and recipient to the consan- =
guinity of the actor to herself defines the well-known coefficient “You do?” =
of relatedness [44]. Hamilton’s first remarks on the evolution of “Yup. PHIL PA
the sex ratio appear in part II of his 1964 paper The genetical evol- =
ution of social behaviour [53], and here he seems to correctly The girl gaped. ‘NO WAYY’. <
grasp the solution in outline, namely that a mother should In 1971, Hamilton [54] points out his error concerning the cal- =
weight each of her newborns according to her consanguinity culation of consanguinity—though not his error concerning the 3
to each and also their reproductive values, these two measures calculation of reproductive value, which he appears to silently =~
of value combining in a multiplicative way (box 1). However, in correct—and remarks that mothers in male-haploid species are =
his first attempt to calculate these quantities as they apply to in fact favoured to employ an unbiased sex ratio because, 3
male-haploid species, he appears to make two errors, and although at this equilibrium point daughters have twice the
this leads him to derive the unusual prediction of a sex ratio reproductive value of sons, the consanguinity of mother and
in which females outnumber males by a factor ¢= (1+ /5)/ son is twice that of mother and daughter. In 1972, he shows
2 = 1.618—that is, the ‘golden ratio’, which has been celebrated his working and generalizes the result to allow for inbreeding,
for its aesthetically pleasing properties since antiquity. which increases the consanguinity of mother and daughter
Hamilton’ first error concerns his calculation of consangui- relative to the consanguinity of mother and son, and hence
nity [54]. In an outbred, male-haploid population the favours a somewhat female-biased sex ratio (box 1) [42]. By
consanguinity of mother and son is double that of mother this time, he has also shown that inbreeding life-histories can
and daughter because whereas males develop from unferti- have consequences not only for consanguinity of daughters
lized eggs and thereby derive all of their genes from their and sons but also for fitness interactions between collateral
mothers, females develop from fertilized eggs and thereby relatives, yielding a further selection pressure—termed ‘local
derive half of their genes from each parent in the usual way mate competition’—that moulds sex allocation in addition to