state (or class) of the focal (h,(z*), equation (3.5); and (ii) social, where the context is the genetic environment of the focal (h,(z*), equation (4.3)). (Online version
in colour.)

descent [29,111]. Remarkably, it is sufficient to consider these of genotypes that specialize in the different contexts that a gen-
summary statistics in the resident population (i.e. under neu- otype can be in, be it the individual state (e.g. its age, sex or
trality) to investigate the direction of selection s(z): ‘a gift size), or the socio-genetic environment of its carrier (e.g. with
from God’ [135] that bypasses many computational headaches. or without relatives).

To characterize disruptive selection h(z), however, requires con- Concerning polymorphism, we have focused our atten-
sidering how the mutant perturbs the distribution of states an tion on disruptive selection h(z), as this constitutes the more
individual carrier can be in (e.g. [45,115,122,123]). As we hope recent advances in the literature. It is however important to
to have conveyed here, these perturbations inform on the keep in mind that for phenotypic diversity to emerge, it is
nature of disruptive selection. In fact, we suggest that there also necessary that the population first converges to a singu-
are two main pathways that can favour polymorphism in lar strategy, ie. that condition equation (2.5) holds. This
trait expression: (i) when individual fitness increases more condition, together with h(z*) > 0, highlights that polymorph-
than linearly with trait expression (h(z), which is the only ism requires pm, z)/(02m0Z) to be sufficiently negative
pathway in well-mixed and homogeneous populations); (when Zm=2=2"*). Similar changes in mutant and resident
(ii) when trait expression simultaneously increases the prob- traits must thus lead to a decrease in mutant fitness at the
ability that an individual is in a given context (e.g. a given singular strategy. More intuitively perhaps, interactions
age, sex, habitat, size or social environment) and fitness in among mutants and residents must have antagonistic effects
that context (h,(z) and h,@); figure 2 for a summary). Popu- on mutant fitness, leading to negative-frequency dependence
lation-structure thus opens novel pathways for the operation (which for instance is the case when interactions have payoffs
of disruptive selection, leading to polymorphisms that have that follow the Snowdrift or Hawk—Dove game).
characteristics unique to these populations. More specifically, Owing to time and space constraints, many other results
