gradual evolution leads a population to an uninvadable the complexity of the mathematical procedures involved
(ie. evolutionarily stable) monomorphic state where all indi- in such studies and the fitness measures used often leave
viduals express the same trait, or to become polymorphic little room for interpretation. In decomposing disruptive
through adaptive diversification (figure 1). As such, they selection in biologically relevant components, we thus
constitute a useful platform to understand the conditions hope to motivate yet further research to understand pheno-
that favour phenotypic variation in the form of adaptive typic variation in non-homogeneous populations, especially
polymorphism. in life-history traits and social behaviours that act either
With the aim of facilitating connections between via direct interactions, or through indirect ecologically
models and biological interpretation, we collected together mediated interactions.
expressions of s(z) and h(z) in terms of individual fitness, Linking invasion fitness, which is a measure of fitness at the
extending reviews that focus on directional selection (e.g. level of the gene (or replicator) [34], to individual fitness in het-
[29,31-33] for s(z) in structured populations, including erogeneous and non-randomly mixed populations requires
under isolation-by-distance). Interpreting disruptive selection taking into account the fact that a gene may find itself in car-
in terms of individual fitness brings together what we see as riers in different states, who can in turn interact with other
the strong points of the related branches of theoretical evol- carriers and impact their reproductive success. This is achieved
utionary biology that are evolutionary game theory and by expressing invasion fitness of a mutant as a weighted aver-
adaptive dynamics. The former has a long tradition of age of individual fitness over the distribution of states that a
decomposing selection in a way to understand the different carrier of the mutant can be in ([22,41,128]; electronic sup-
forces at play in the evolution of social and life-history plementary material, appendix C here). With class-structure,
traits [5,6,29,31,91,111,128]. Most investigations of complex the appropriate weights turn out to be reproductive values
populations, however, stop at directional selection and do [84], while the averaging in group-structured populations
not determine whether polymorphism emerges. By contrast, invariably leads to the notion of relatedness as a measure of

adaptive dynamics models typically study such emergence interactions among carriers of genes that are identical-by-
