ual’s state now also depends on x(a), which opens new suggests that disruptive selection can readily emerge owing
pathways for disruptive selection. The extra term in h,,(z*) to a change in state and its knock-on fitness effects. Such
in equation (3.13) (the last term within the brackets) depends disruptive selection would favour polymorphism in the
on how fitness changes nonlinearly with trait expression via a evolving trait z and as a result, also in internal state across
change in state dynamics. This reveals for instance that dis- ages (x(a).
ruptive selection may be driven by accelerating effects of a We have illustrated equation (3.13) (and equation (IIA) in
trait change on state dynamics at a certain age (0? 9(Zm, 2, box 2) with examples from life history such as resource allo-
x°(a))/(02m)" >0, e.g. because an extra unit of resources cation problems as those are the most straightforward
invested in growth at age a generates a greater than linear applications. But since all vital rates (fecundity b, mortality
increase in growth rate) when such a change improves u and growth g) depend on both mutant and resident traits
current reproductive value (00° (a) /(Ax°(a)) > 0). (2m and z), equations (3.13) and (IIA) can of course be used
The first part of h(z*) in equation (3.13), labelled ‘change to understand disruptive selection on traits that influence
in age’, is conceptually equivalent to h,(z*) in equation (3.8), social interactions. In fact, since the vital rates may depend
ie. capturing the effect of change in representation in a on the resident internal state and its distribution across resi-
given age class a (through dl(a)/(0zm)) but with internal dent individuals, equations (3.13) and (II.A) can be applied

state dynamics left unchanged (so with x(a) of a resident: to social interactions mediated by internal state, such as


Box 2. Second-order fitness effects of a state change in physiologically structured populations.

Disruptive selection in physiologically structured populations (equation (3.13), §3) depends on the product between the effect
of a change in trait expression on internal state at age a (0x(a)/(0z,,)) and

Ob(z, z,3 0, \ OM(Z, 2, ol