x=1/4, since (1 — £)4/4 < 1. Hence (x*, y*) = (1/4, 0) is not a mutants. Continuity of the fitness function then implies that
BNE, and there is thus a discontinuity at e = 0: while residents any mutant that is not a behavioural alike to fitness-
may use the mixed strategy 1/4 when there are no mutants maximizers obtains a strictly lower equilibrium fitness than
around, they no longer do so as soon as the mutant preference the fitness-maximizers.
function at hand is present in the population. Ok & Vega-Redondo [19] adopt similar topological prop-
The potential existence of multiple equilibria together erties, and they show that fitness-maximizers are robust to
with potential discontinuities in the set of BNE introduces a the entry of non-fitness-maximizers even in finite but large
sharp contrast with the linearity in ¢ of the score functions enough populations. By contrast, in small populations the
under strategy evolution (2.4) and under preference evolution entry of mutants makes the resident fitness-maximizers
under complete information (3.12), which implied that analy- shift their strategy away from any strategy they would have
sis of the score function at e =0 was sufficient to check played in the absence of mutants in many fitness games,
evolutionary stability (recall results 2.6 and 3.4). In spite of and the result no longer holds (this is reminiscent of the
these challenges, there are conditions that render general fact that a strategy that is ES in infinite populations is not
analysis possible, even for settings with multiple equilibria. necessarily ES in finite populations [29]).
In particular, several authors have shown that the fitness- Why should evolutionary biologists take interest in result
maximizing preference function is ES. 3.13? After all, the prediction is not surprising: under incomplete
Prior to stating one such result, one additional issue needs information fitness-maximizers prevail in a panmictic setting. I
to be addressed, however. Recall that the goal here is to mini- would argue that the result is valuable because it solves a
mally constrain the set of possible preference functions, @. In dilemma inherent to fitness games with multiple ESSs.
particular, © contains several functions that give rise to the Indeed, for such fitness games, analysis under the assumption
same strategy choices (recall remark 3.9), and hence that in gen- that selection operates at the level of strategies delivers no
eral there will be no preference function that is ESI against all clear prediction. By contrast, analysis under the assumption
the other preference functions (since residents must obtain a that selection operates at the level of preferences predicts that
strictly higher average fitness than mutants for it to be ES, see one particular preference function stands out as being viable
definition 3.11). The following definition of behavioural alikes from an evolutionary perspective.