is complete at birth, and its connections laid down by the first areas but seem to capitalize on phylogenetically ancient  &
weeks of age [19,21,52]. However, its localization in the brain, visual structures already existing in new-born primates and eo]
dimensions, and the difficulty to ‘isolate’ it from the influence other lineages. S
of other brain areas have limited our knowledge of its compu- Third, the results on spontaneous tuning led to testing the
tational properties, especially in humans. In this context, a impact of different approaches to image manipulation that =
DNN imitating the neurobiological constraints of the retino- can bias face processing towards M and P channel properties. =
collicular system can swiftly provide a preliminary tool to per- DNN recognition of M-biased faces filtered to display only
form ‘in silico neurophysiology’ [127], thereby promoting a LSFs was not measurably altered compared to broad-band
milestone to furthering neuroscience investigation in the images, whereas the classification of P-biased expressions
human and non-human primate brain. with HSF was almost at chance level. We also provide
Neural networks models offer a principled perspective to proof-of-principle that alternative methods to engage the M
specifying mechanistic hypotheses on how sensory and cogni- or P channels activate the human SC differentially in fMRI.
tive functions may be carried out by real brains [100]. In fact, Future fMRI studies could determine whether this increased
DNNs have found their place in the plurality of models SC activity to M-biased faces withstands larger samples
available in neuroscience because they fulfil serval functions than our two subjects, and if an additive difference between
exceedingly well [128]. First, DNNs make falsifiable pre- image manipulation and expressions emerges. In the interim,
dictions that can be compared to specific brain systems in these findings provide initial evidence that adjusting the
terms of detailed patterns of behaviours. This has led to the luminance and colour of image stimuli to unbalance M and
development and optimization of experimental designs for P processing impacts SC activity, as predicted by our model.
empirical inquiry in the real brain. Second, they contribute to Fourth, we explored the effects of different sources of uni-
exploring and generating new hypotheses through proof-of- form image noise and the assignment of saliency to specific
principle demonstrations that create plausibility and motivate image locations and facial features depending on emotional
further research, especially in the absence of a fully fledged expressions. Results show that the mouth region (and there-
theory of how a cognitive function emerges from neural archi- fore the smile) is crucial for categorizing happy expressions,
tectures. DNNs have made strides in elucidating principles of and the eye area is most useful to recognize sadness [123].