Deep sequencing of survivors revealed that all contain two catalysis of RNA cleavage would follow. This hypothesis
or four AEGIS Z nucleotides. is also consistent with the observation that the selected
The pK, of the Z heterocycle alone is 7.8. Thus, Z provides ribonucleases contain Z pairs.
to DNA libraries an acid-base functionality absent in Adding a nucleobase pair having distinctive reactivity
standard nucleotides, but present in proteins, by histidine. increases the value of a library as a reservoir for RNA cleav-
In the well-studied protein ribonuclease A from ox pan- ing AEGISzymes by 4 or 5 orders of magnitude. However,
creas, two histidine residues act in concert in a ‘pull-push’ could this expansion have played a role in natural history
general acid-general base mechanism (figure 7, top). Here, at or near the origin of life?
one of the histidines must be protonated; the other must be Abiological processes can attach functionalized size chains
deprotonated. to the standard pyrimidines in RNA, especially uracil [111,112].
We propose that the AEGISzyme effects RNA cleavage This strikes us as a more reasonable way to get general acids
via an analogous mechanism, but with the histidines replaced and general bases into a prebiotic RNA library than a prebiotic
by Z’s. Here, one of the Z’s must be protonated; the other synthesis of Z, notwithstanding the fact that this might lead to
must be deprotonated. The pH-rate profile showing a maxi- ‘overdecoration’ of the evolving platform.
mum rate with a pH near the pK, of the Z heterocycle is Of course, just as translation probably emerged well after

consistent with this. With one Z’ protonated and one Z Darwinian evolution was secure in Terran natural history, the


biosynthesis of Z or other AEGIS bases in alien organisms
have access to Darwinian process but have ‘chosen’ to
increase the catalytic power of their informational biopoly-
mer rather than inventing a new catalytic biopolymer.

What is clear, however, is the biotechnological import of