moters tend to be neutral [41], consistent with our findings. posed as enhancers than the other way around in mammalian
They have also been shown to evolve more slowly than enhancers evolution [45]. However, this observation remains to be tested
in mammals [22]. Still, the level of constraint on promoters can with more promoters and beyond the context of reporter con-
differ among different types of promoters [42], with highly con- structs. Furthermore, the effects of promoter variants on the
strained promoters associated with developmental functions [43]. level of gene expression did not correlate with the number
Empirical characterization of the mutational space of enhan- or the location (e.g. in TATA or other motifs) of mutations
cers and promoters in a developmental context was only made (figures 2 and 3), suggesting that regulatory information
possible recently through mutational scans [17] and automation might be randomly distributed in these promoters and a satu-
of embryo handling [44]. Recent mutational scans have found rated mutational scan might be required to fully decode the
that developmental enhancers encode dense regulatory infor- regulatory potential of promoter sequences.
mation and are strongly constrained [17,18,36]. In this study, When comparing svb promoter and DSCP, it is clear that
we found that Drosophila promoters have different mutational the endogenous svb promoter had low activity (figure 1),
profiles from enhancers. At a comparable mutation rate to the consistent with previous views [19]. The fact that both subp
previously published E3N enhancer library [17], variants in and DSCP had access to mutations that can increase the
our promoter libraries did not show any changes in the pattern expression level (figures 2 and 3) suggested that the low
of gene expression (figures 2 and 3, electronic supplementary activity of endogenous promoters might be a result of selec-
material, figure S5). By contrast, almost all mutant lines of tion. Furthermore, the high-activity, artificially engineered
E3N changed the pattern (figure 2, electronic supplementary promoter was more ‘evolvable’ (or ‘breakable’) in the sense
material, figure S3). Mutations in promoters can change that many mutations led to changes in the level of gene
the level of expression in either direction (figures 2 and 3), expression, whereas the low-activity, endogenous svb promo-
whereas mutations in enhancers tended to reduce expression ter was relatively robust to mutations, suggesting that
(figure 2) [17,18]. developmental promoters might have evolved to encode
Together, these findings suggest that Drosophila promoters robust transcriptional outputs. This robustness may facilitate

might be more robust to mutations than enhancers. evolvability through the rapid integration of developmental