Figure 1. Overview of DfrB1 structure and key residues. The DfrB1 homotetramer (PDB 2RK1) complexed with DHF substrate (carbons in green, only the pterin group
is resolved) and NADP* (carbons in grey). The VQIY active-site motif is coloured (from dark to light blue) for each protomer. K32 residues that bind the negative
charges of DHF and NADPH are shown as orange sticks (two conformations are shown). Residues W45 at the monomer—monomer interfaces and W38 at the dimer—
dimer interfaces, are coloured in purple and pink, respectively. (Online version in colour.)

poorly conserved, unstructured N-terminus (electronic sup- DfrB-H2 is twice the length and includes the DfrB1 N-terminus.
plementary material, figure $3). This SH3-like fold has no Although the other nine reported DfrB are always identified as
evolutionary homology to any characterized protein. No dis- 78 residues in length, this gene has two start codons: one for the
tant homologues in the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database of translation of the 97-residue DfrB-H2, and one for a 78-residue
functionally annotated sequences are identified for DfrB1 enzyme that is identical to DfrB1 except for one residue at the
according to PSI-BLAST, using an E-value threshold of 107°; junction of the N-terminus and the SH3-like fold. We have no
by contrast, applying the same method to the Escherichia information on the relative expression levels of each gene pro-
coli FolA identifies 90 characterized sequences sharing less duct in vivo. In fact, the well-studied, ‘canonical’ DfrB1 may
than 50% local identity. not be produced in nature in its 78-residue form but may
Recognizing that standard search tools are inefficient in always be accompanied by the longer N-terminus that charac-
yielding evolutionary insight into the emergence of DfrB terizes DfrB-H2. Characterization of DfrB-H2 will inform on
enzymes, we searched the complete UniProtKB for DfrB the impact of varying the N-terminus length on DfrB function.
homologues, including uncharacterized proteins. By those The four more distant homologues, DfrB-H3 to DfrB-H6,
means, we identified a total of 68 sequences. They describe are all mainly clustered among genes encoding hypothetical
30 non-redundant proteins having sequence similarity with proteins having no predicted function. Among the few
DfrB1 among which 21 are described as putative, as they genes having a putative function, both DfrB-H3, identified
have only been identified by bioinformatic predictions. in a Pseudomonas phage, and DfrB-H5, identified in Methylo-
Their length ranges from 67 to 463 amino acids. A set of 18 bacterium pseudosasicola, are found in proximity to a DNA
close homologues to the DfrB1 (greater than 80% global methyltransferase. DfrB-H4, identified in a Vibrio phage, is
sequence similarity) includes nine of the 10 known DfrB found at a distance of 2 kb of a DNA methylase gene. Finally,