
; . ; Figure 2. Scatter plots of the trajectories of /g lineage turnover ab and HIV
(0) Human immunodeficiency virus turnover and Ig turnover ab for the nine patients of the dataset. The Spearman correlation

lineages turnover are significantly anti-correlated coefficient and the correlation p-value p are reported within each plot.

oer : P Online version in .
To combine information across patients, we employ the stat- ( colour.
istical procedure explained in ยง3(b). For each pair of the

HIV-Ig absolute-change measures, we compute a Kolmo- with any of the Ig measures (and similarly for the Ig number
gorov-Smirnov p-value on the distribution of re-scaled of sequences). Another spurious correlation can be generated
correlation coefficients. The 24 p-values are shown in electronic by the fact that the time points are not homogeneously distrib-
supplementary material, figure $3a. We correct for multiple uted (electronic supplementary material, figure S1), and the
testing through a Benjamini-Hochberg test at a false discovery considered change measures are dependent on the length of
rate of 0.05. This selects three significant pairs of measures, the time windows. However, we find that the size of time win-
which are shown in figure 4. This figure displays a scatter dows (Delta time in electronic supplementary material, figure
plot for each pair, which contains all the points of all the S32) does not show a correlation with any of the other measures.
patients together (normalized as explained in the caption, Conversely, the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure that we
and colour-coded by patient). For example the second panel use to account for multiple testing makes the conservative
displays all the points of the nine plots of figure 2. The histo- assumption that the different tests we tried are independent
gram of Kolmogorov-Smirnov p-values is shown above each of each other. But it is likely that many of the defined quan-
scatter plot. The first two significant pairs are the Ig lineage tities are strongly correlated, e.g. Ig lineage turnover ab and Ig
turnover and the HIV turnover. We find a correlation when lineage large turnover, making the effective number of tests
all the lineage turnovers are considered (middle plot, Ig lineage smaller than actually used in the procedure and leading us