which could make evolution of community-level properties forced to focus on certain subsets of community members [43].
highly repeatable. We return to this discussion in §4b. Ecological communities possess emergent community-level
The question of whether similar environments repeatably properties, i.e. properties that depend on but cannot be
select for similar ecological communities has a long history. reduced to the properties of individual members of the com-
Early studies documented similarities and differences munity [43-47]. For example, whereas beak morphology is a
between geographically distant communities, but did not trait of an individual finch, the distribution of beak mor-
establish how ecological and evolutionary processes gener- phologies in a community of finches on an island is a
ated the observed outcomes (e.g. [43,57-60]). More recently, property of the community. Other community-level proper-
this problem has been addressed primarily from an ecological ties include species composition and diversity, function,
perspective [44]. The role of evolutionary processes (i.e. those productivity, etc. The distribution of ecological interactions
that cause heritable changes in the genetic and phenotypic can also be considered a community-level property [12]. We
composition of populations of community-member species) do not endow the word ‘emergent’ with any meaning
in causing repeatable outcomes at the community level has beyond the fact that these properties do not exist at lower
received less attention. Although, as we demonstrate below, levels of biological organization, although it is implicit
the studies of adaptive radiations and species coevolution that community properties likely depend on the ecological
in nature and in the laboratory bear greatly on this question, interactions between community members. For example,
their emphasis has been on the patterns and processes of different finch species on the Galapagos islands have
phenotypic evolution rather than on the community-level different beak morphologies as a result of competition [63].
properties. The goal of this review is to synthesize our current To make the language clearer, we will refer to individual-
understanding of community-level repeatability from an level properties as traits (unless we specifically talk about
evolutionary perspective and outline potentially interesting genotype) but we will always say community-level properties.
avenues for future research. We will use the word characters to refer to community prop-

erties, individual traits or genotypes. Characters can be
discrete or continuous, one- or multi-dimensional, and we