faced, reviewed in Panait and Luke [73], will probably also
be relevant for groups of learning animals. Indeed, in many
(a) The distribution of collective learning capacities, or cases, teams of robots did not improve at solving the coopera-

why collective learning may often fail to emerge in tive task [73]. Robots, however, can only be imperfect models
for animal groups, primarily because they do not have a long

groups evolutionary history, and are often designed to complete a
We focused our discussion of mechanisms on cases where specific task, rather than to balance and trade off various
‘collective learning’ occurred, i.e. was detected through an needs related to survival and/or reproduction [12,86,87].
improvement of a group’s performance across trials. Yet we Therefore, there is still ample scope for biologists to assess
acknowledged in the introduction that not all learning is the factors influencing when animal groups should fail or
necessarily adaptive. In fact, because our definition of ‘collec- succeed in collective learning. We provide below some
tive performance’ is very broad (any measure integrating the more detailed outstanding questions and hypotheses.
behaviour of several individuals), trivially we expect that We suggest there are three broad types of challenges for
only some collective measures should increase across trials. the emergence of collective learning in animal groups com-

This leaves open the question of the actual distribution of posed of individuals capable of learning (figure 3), which


might then help to predict the distribution of collective- The third type of challenge is linked to evolutionary con- | 10 |

learning capacities in groups. The first type of challenge is straints, potentially interacting with cognitive and collective
cognitive: being part of a collective might alter what processes. Collective learning might emerge by chance in a
or how fast individual members learn. If for any reason group where members can learn but impose important fitness