evolutionary developmental origins of the skull’s constitu- — Across the placental skull, evolutionary rate, but not
ents to their gnathostome ancestors. This duality has disparity, correlates with developmental modules.
sparked a rich body of scientific inquiry into the structure Evolutionary rates are also associated with dietary and
and function of the namesake structure of this theme issue. locomotor groups, but operating on a more general
On the topic of mammalian skulls structure and function, level that does not show consistent element-ecology
this theme issue has a collection of five contributions that associations. The integration-modularity patterns of
touch on a wide spectrum of research questions and model the mammalian skull are likely produced under the
clades. On the homology of the skull roof bony elements, interaction of these multi-level rate difference generators.
Roston et al. [17] clarify the evolution and variation in interpar- — Rather than evolutionarily releasing mammals into an
ietal elements using cetaceans, a clade showcasing arguably the adaptive radiation of both structure and function, the evol-
most modified skulls among mammals. On the paradigm of ution of the single-element lower jaw, concomitant with
using basicranial characteristics in mammalian systematics, the definitive mammalian middle ear, canalized mamma-
Weisbecker et al. [18] demonstrate that, in fact, the basicranium lian jaw biomechanics towards a principally stiffness-
may contain lower degrees of phylogenetic signal than whole mediated regime. Despite this low mechanical disparity,
skull shape characteristics. Along a similar vein of intracranial mandibular shape in mammals is comparable to or
variation in evolutionary tempo and mode, Goswami et al. exceeds the disparity observed in other non-mammal ver-
[19] show through a deep-time and high-density landmark- tebrate groups as a whole. This represents a switch in the
based shape analysis of the placental cranium, that different structure-function configuration of mammalian lower jaws
evolutionary rates characterize skull bone elements of different at the base of the crown mammal radiation.

developmental origins, even if the overall disparity of those
elements are comparable. Two other contributions also focus
on the functional morphology of a relatively less structurally

complex, but equally data rich, region of the skull—the mand- 5. Concl uding remarks