
Figure 3. Early lagomorph Palaeolagus haydeni (FMNH PM 9476), early Oligocene of the Brule Formation, Nebraska, USA. (a) Three-dimensional model of ear region
in ventral view, entrance of the internal carotid artery marked in red (see arrow); (6) ear region in ventral view, right auditory bulla removed ([23], modified). (c—e)
Palaeolagus burkei (AMNH 8709), early Oligocene, Colorado, USA; transversal CT images of the left ear from posterior (c) to anterior (e). For anatomical abbrevi-
ations, see captions to figures 1 and 2. bs, basisphenoid; dcc, distal carotid canal; oc, occipital condyle; pcc, proximal carotid canal.

In Palaeolagus haydeni and Palaeolagus burkei, the ICA the cranial cavity. Megalagus and Litolagus depart in certain
enters the basicranium via the PCE which lies between the respects from this scheme; in both species the posterior carotid
ectotympanic and petrosal right in front of the jugular fora- foramen is totally or at least mostly located in the tympanic
men (figure 3). The foramen opens into a relatively short bulla, and in Litolagus the posterior part of the ICA promontor-
proximal carotid canal that runs anterodorsally between ial section is not represented by a sulcus. In all cases, there is
these two bones and opens into the tympanic cavity. The no evidence of the stapedial artery as a branch of the ICA, a
ICA continues in a shallow sulcus on the medial side of known fact for the extant taxa [18]. However, it should be
the promontorium (figure 1b) and then becomes enclosed noted that the absence of specific osteological characters (e.g.
again, between the bulla and petrosal bone into the distal sulci) may not, strictly speaking, attest to the absence of the
(anterior) carotid canal. The ICA then bends medially and respective blood vessels (see [8]).

enters the brain cavity next to the sella turcica. The anterior
course of the ICA from the distal carotid canal into the
brain cavity could not be fully traced in P. burkei owing to

poor preservation in that area. The promontorium of both The early archaeolagine leporid Archaeolagus ennisianus shows
specimens is smooth and no additional sulci were detected. a huge PCF located in front of the jugular foramen between the
In Litolagus molidens (figure 2d-f), the PCF leads into a ectotympanic and petrosal (figure 4). The carotid canal and the
short proximal carotid canal between the ectotympanic and course of the ICA across the promontorium resemble the pat-