simultaneously, larvae formed two overlapping aggregates, larvae have drawn CV larvae, which moved out of their
with each species located slightly outside its species-specific thermal preference. This result not only contradicts
thermal preference. This result confirmed our second hypoth- our third hypothesis of a position benefit for established
esis. Last, species settlement order modified larval choices. larvae, but also contrasts with the bimodal distribution we
When the more thermophilic LS larvae were added after observed when the two species were placed together.
CV (CV-LS), the two species formed a single heterospecific It rather suggests that the gathering movement of the later-
aggregate located at LS preferred temperature. Reversing deposited larvae influenced the already established species.
this order (LS-CV) resulted in a single heterospecific aggre- However, this explanation did not hold in the reverse
gate (located at temperatures ranging from 27 to 40°C) in condition, that is to say when CV were placed after LS
five of the replicates. In the other five replicates, loose hetero- (LS-CV). In half of the replicates, no clear interspecific con-
specific groups spread out between the thermal preferences sensus was observed. The arrival of CV larvae disrupted
of the two species were observed. We consider that these established LS aggregate, but failed to attract the whole
findings partially contradict our third hypothesis and can group. In fact, it looks like larvae took different decisions:
be explained by collective decision processes. some favoured thermal optimization, others aggregation
Here, larvae had the choice between accelerating their and many sited in-between. In the other half of replicates,

metabolism through thermal optimization (i.e. relocation) or larvae choose aggregation and formed a single and dense
aggregate in larger groups to locally liquefy food for better interspecific group. However, the choice of this group for a
and faster assimilation (ie. perturbation). A former study temperature was unclear, with replicates ranging from one

on homospecific groups of LS larvae has shown that these extreme to the other. This may be owing to different


consensus resulting from collective decision, or a continuous shared benefit. Aggregation can be regarded as a form of
