5d). Last, we found that the largest species, RG, was avoided network level.
by smaller species, and not the other way around. We also evaluated whether each species showed consistent
When we used community detection on the joining net- evidence of use of a particular categorization schema by com-
work, we found that the joining network was divided into paring the best-fit schema in the main data partition to that
three main communities (figure 5c): one involving the large found in the validation data partition. We found that the
macaws (RG, BY, SC), one involving the small macaws and best-fit categorization schema was the same across the two
large parrots (ME, YC, CE RB, BH), and one involving the data partitions in the majority of species. Of our 12 species,
small parrots and parakeets (OC, WE, WB, DH). eight had the same best-fit categorization schema in the

validation data partition as we found in the main data par-
tition. While our investigation of potential categorization

(d) Inferring categorization schemas from Joining schemas was not exhaustive, the fact that the best-fit categor-

patterns ization schema of these eight species was consistent provides
We tested whether a simpler categorization schema, other additional support for the biological relevancy of these
than species, could better explain each species’ joining pat- schemas. Four species had a best-fit schema that differed
terns. For all 12 species tested, a simpler categorization from our main results: in the validation data partition,
schema beat out the species-based schema by a large WB and CF returned size, RB returned larger, and OC was
margin (figure 7). Electronic supplementary material, best-fit by species.
table S1 shows the Akaike weights for the best-fit model In the main data partition, we found good evidence for
(WAICyes:) compared to the species model (WAIC.pecies)- a preference for similarity: 10 to 11 of the 12 species exhibited
Across all cases, the species model performed with a wAIC a significant preference for joining others that were categor-
of 0.003 or less, meaning that the probability that the ized in the same category as themselves within the best-fit
species model was the best-fit model, given the nine categoriz- schema (electronic supplementary material, figure S4). One