often appear in the form of pithy paragraphs in the Introduc- ated in the literature, we want to trace the origins of
tion or the Discussion of a paper to set context for an frequently discussed ideas around nuclearity in flocks and
investigation and interpret findings, respectively. how they have evolved over time. But another part of our
For example, here are two comparisons, each including a interest stems from a concern about how citation history
referenced statement from one of H.S.’s earlier papers (Srid- might impact our understanding of nuclearity in mixed-
har & Sankar [7]; emphasis is ours to highlight similarity species flocks, especially given the likely influence that
across statements) nuclear species have on flock composition and functioning.
1. In particular, we worry about the creation of a misplaced
From Sridhar & Sankar [7] sense of certainty or truth around ideas about nuclearity
Instead, absence of a species important for flock formation resulting from how they are cited in the literature. For example,
or maintenance (nuclear species sensu Moynihan 1962) might like Jablonka & Lamb [12] and Greenberg [13] have suggested,
prevent other species from flocking (Lovejoy et al. 1986, what are only speculations or local observations in reality
Maldonado-Coelho & Marini 2004, Stouffer & Bierregaard 1995). might, over time, become established as ‘facts’ through an
From Botero [8] increasing certainty and universality with which they are
“Nuclear species” are thought to promote the formation and cited, therefore not receiving any further investigation. These
maintenance of mixed flocks through the conspicuous nature of ‘facts’ then in turn become starting points, or assumptions,
their calls, coloration, or behaviour (Moynihan 1962) based on which future work on nuclearity in flocks is built.
2. Our investigation confirmed our impression that refer-
From Sridhar & Sankar [7] enced statements on nuclearity in flocks are dominated by a
In our study area, the brown-cheeked fulvetta possessed most of small set of ideas supported by a small number of cited
the characteristics thought to be important for a nuclear species papers. A more striking outcome however, which forms the
(Hutto 1994). It was the most frequent flock participant focus of this paper, was that a single publication stood out
across all fragments (Appendix 1), is intraspecifically gregarious from the rest in the imprint it has left on ideas around nuclear-

and possesses a loud continuous call. ity in flocks: Martin Moynihan’s 1962 monograph [10] about a