cutlip minnows, Exoglossum maxillingua, males carefully high potential for studies on female choice based on nest =>
select the stones to be darker and more colour-saturated than characteristics; for example, male reproductive success could =
the background when building their mounds [93], similar to be correlated to nest shape and location. g
sticklebacks that use algae of contrasting colour to mark the 2
nest opening (ยง3b). It seems likely that choice of stone colour S
makes males more attractive to females, but as far as we (c) Bowls: depressions in the substrate s
know, this has not yet been investigated. Bowls are pits dug out in the substrate. They are a common S
type of nest, found in e.g. Centrarchidae, Characidae and e
Pomacentridae [3]. Bowls are often no more than shallow
(b) Burrows: digging and covering depressions [3], unlikely to be strong targets for sexual selec-
Nests are commonly shaped as burrows, for example in gobies tion, apart from their location (ยง2a). That said, more intense
(Gobiidae), jawfishes (Opistognathidae) and catfishes (Siluri- digging requires energy [104], and some bowls are extensive
formes) [3], and are constructed by digging in the substrate constructions. In fact, many bowers (ยง3b) are architecturally
often under an object. Additional nest building can include bowls. Below, we provide a small sample of bowl-shaped
covering the object and stabilizing the entrance (e.g. by nest constructions, likely to be at least partially under sexual
mixing mucus into the sand) [3]. selection.
A burrow with a narrow entrance is likely to protect eggs Recently, a breeding colony estimated to contain 60 million
from predation, but curb ventilation. In sand gobies, during active nests of icefish Neopagetopsis ionah (Channichthyidae),
hypoxia males solve this trade-off by keeping a wide opening with male bow] nests (60 cm diameter) placed side by side,
and attacking egg predators more frequently [94]. In addition was discovered at approximately 500 m depth in the Weddell
to such naturally selected aspects of nest burrows, sexually Sea, Antarctica [105]. Given paternal care and marked sexual
selected nest-building behaviour is evident in sand and dimorphism, with males being larger than females and
common gobies (box 2). Furthermore, in the blennid Rhabdo- having an elongated dorsal fin and lower jaw [106], this gigan-
blennius nitidus, a nest site with a narrow opening enables the tic aggregation has potentially been shaped by sexual selection
male force the female to spawn by preventing her from escap- on male nest building. Little is known about the reproductive