ings left many incredulous. Anyway, this part of the story ‘I do not know, this is a far-fetched assumption, I wonder
has been debated at length in many reviews. You yourself, if you are trying to flatter me?’
Professor, while mentioning the limitations of the voltage- Dario was half surprised, but then realized Silvio was joking.
clamp technique of Purkinje fibres with two microelectrodes, Silvio continued:
noted in one of your reviews [19] that among other technical ‘No, I'm joking, I know it is a serious question. As I say, it
flaws "accumulation/depletion of ions in the interspace may is a far-fetched assumption, but at the same time it is difficult
seriously affect interpretations, and too often it would be dif- not to see a continuity in the developments of cardiac electro-
ficult to distinguish between an inward current decreasing physiology based on the data I collected so long ago. So in a
and an outward current increasing with time"! sense, yes, I like the idea of being seen as one of the "fathers"
On the other hand, considering the conductance measure- of cardiac electrophysiology!’

ments made during the diastolic depolarization, you know
that in fact your old data are perfectly valid and fully congru-

ent with the new interpretation!’ A.5. Conclusion

Dario’s gaze turned to Denis, who nodded in agreement: Silvio’s distinctive bonhomie had never faded during the visit, but when

‘When in January 1981 I told Denis over the phone (a Denis and Dario heard him accepting such a praising compliment, they
phone call mentioned in a few review publications) that the also perceived a hint of tiredness in his voice. A few long moments
Ix current simply did not exist and had to be replaced by passed in silence, a sign that the visit had come to an end. Silvio
the newly discovered sino-atrial "funny" current, and that accompanied his guests to the door, and bade them farewell warmly.
the decay of Ix was to be replaced by the activation of Is ‘We have had a good chat.’, he said appreciatively. ‘Thank
during diastole, Denis was immediately aware of the revolu- you for coming.’
tionary content of that finding and realized that it was Days are short in Bern in the winter, and it was dark when