There has not as yet been a structural comparison of RyR2 from the RyR2 complex, increasing channel activity, as in
with different amounts of FKBP12 bound. the CSQ2-null mouse [50]. It is conceivable that confor-

Our hypothesis is that conformational changes associated mational changes associated with FKBP binding to RyR2 Ss
with FKBP binding to only one or two non-adjacent subunits might be transmitted through the pore to luminal tria- = =
differ from the changes associated with binding to adjacent din/junctin binding sites on RyR2, thereby impacting on = 5!
subunits, which is obligatory when FKBP binds to three or the CSQ2 binding properties of triadin and/or junctin. = 5
four subunits. It is possible that the structural impact of Alternatively, or in addition, the FKBP binding signal =
FKBP binding to one or two non-adjacent subunits alters may be transmitted to the additional triadin and junctin = &
their orientation in such a way as to allow greater mobility binding sites on the cytoplasmic domain of the RyR that =
within the tetramer. Greater mobility within the RyR due to have been postulated for these transmembrane proteins >
‘unzipping’ of interdomain interactions has long been [51,52], again altering their luminal association with ~~
suggested to increase channel activity, while reduced- CSQ2. However, the facts that solubilization removes tria- S
mobility ‘zipping’ is suggested to reduce channel opening din, junctin and CSQ2, and that similar overall effects of eS
[32,35,36,38-43]. It is further conceivable that the structural FKBP12 were seen in solubilized and native channels,
changes within non-adjacent subunits increasing the overall provide a strong argument against alterations in associ-
tetramer mobility could reduce the affinity of unbound ated protein interactions underlying the overall biphasic
subunits for FKBP12. With sufficient increases in [FKBP12] action of FKBP12.

and exposure time, the structural changes associated with
FKBP binding to adjacent subunits may further alter inter-
subunit interactions in such a manner as to reduce the
overall of the mobility within the corona and thereby
reduce channel activity.
