
cGMP-selective, are relevant to cAMP signalling in that they
can contribute to the cAMP/cGMP cross-talk described
above. PDE5 inhibition has been shown to protect the heart

from ischemic stress and attenuate hypertrophy and heart fail- 8. Scaffoldi ng protel ns
ure remodelling in animal models [53]. PDE5 also contributes Scaffolding proteins play an important part in the compart-
to the regulation of calcium handling by interacting with other mentalization of cAMP signalling as they organize the
PDEs and may limit the response of myocytes to B-AR stimu- multiprotein complexes that operate as distinct signalosomes.
lation. Specifically, it has been observed in murine sinoatrial The AKAPs facilitate control by bringing together, at defined
cells that PDES inhibition attenuates the beating rate increase locations, regulators of the cAMP pathway, including GPCR,
following sympathetic stimulation, but only if PDE2 function ACs, downstream effectors of cAMP and their targets, as well
is intact [89]. This can be explained by the fact that PDE5 inhi- as PDEs and phosphatases, in different assortment depend-
bition increases cGMP concentration in the same compartment ing on the specific signalosome. More than 14 AKAPs
where the cGMP-activated PDE2 is present. cGMP sub- have been described in the heart, including AKAP5 (also
sequently activates PDE2, limiting cAMP concentrations in termed AKAP150/79) which regulates L-type channels
its vicinity, thus counteracting the effect of B-AR activation. [101] AKAP7 (also termed AKAP18) that regulates PLB and
PDE9 is expressed, although at very low level, and is thus SERCA pumps and also interacts with CamKII [67,68],
functional in the heart in several species, including humans AKAP9 (also called Yotiao), involved in the regulation of
and it appears to selectively degrade cGMP generated on the slow repolarization current Ix, [26,94], AKAP12 (or
activation of natriuretic peptide receptors. Its expression gravin), AKAP-Lbe and mAKAP [102]. Although specific
has been reported to be upregulated in heart failure and its information on AKAPs expression in SAN cells is scarce,
inhibition has been suggested as a potential treatment for these proteins are likely to play an important role in coordi-
this condition [90]. nating local control of cAMP signalling, as observed in
