determine how a species will respond to warming based we had trained our SDMs on data only from our focal region
only on its temperature response curve because species we would not be including the full range of environmental
vary in the degree to which their tolerance to depth and conditions that define the distributions of these species. Fur-
low oxygen constrains their ability to shift to greater depths thermore, the high correlation between depth, temperature
as conditions warm (figure 3). Therefore, SDMs that do not and oxygen in BC and WA would have prevented us from dis-
account for depth and dissolved oxygen (e.g. [17]) may tinguishing their unique influence on species’ distributions
underestimate the sensitivity of marine organisms to climate [22]. While some species in our models have ranges that
change because they assume that species can always shift to extend beyond the broad spatial extent and environmental
deeper waters when conditions warm. By contrast, models range sampled by the surveys, we expect that this had negli-
that rely only on sea surface temperatures (e.g. [16]) assume gible impact on our projections because our focal region is
that species cannot shift in depth to deal with warming; situated in the middle of the geographical and environmental
thus they are likely to overestimate the sensitivity of ground- space sampled by the surveys. Reassuringly, the future
fish to climate change. The fact that dissolved oxygen and environmental conditions that are projected by our regional
depth were correlated, even in our coastwide dataset, posed models fall within the range of conditions present in our
a challenge for accurately estimating the oxygen responses survey data, except in the few warmest grid cells, where
in our models. For a subset of species, our models estimated future conditions are projected to exceed our observational
that occurrence decreased with increasing oxygen, which is range by less than 1°C (electronic supplementary material,
unlikely given the fact that oxygen is understood to be a lim- figure $12). Thus, we are largely avoiding extrapolating into
iting factor [41]. This indicates that, for these species, the novel climate conditions, which is a key source of uncertainty
models are erroneously attributing the fact that the species in many SDM projections [66]. By contrast, if we had extended
is not found in shallower oxygenated waters to oxygen our projections to cover the full spatial extent of the survey
rather than some other variable that is correlated with data, we would have had to use low-resolution outputs from
depth. Indeed, models without oxygen responses tended to global climate models, which have not been downscaled to
have similar forecast accuracy to those with oxygen incorporate the complex bathymetry of the continental shelf
responses, indicating that the depth response is able to cap- [67,68]. Alternatively, we could have stitched together multiple