the circles shows the number of tows that fall into that bin, the colour shows the proportion of those tows where the species was present. The SDM model fit is
shown as contour lines of predicted occurrence. (b,c) The full coastwide dataset was used to fit the SDMs. Panels (d) and (e) show only the trawls from BC and WA.
(f) The projected change in occurrence for each 3 km? grid cell between the historical baseline (1986-2005) and the future projection (2046-2065), here
based on the BCCM model and RCP 4.5. The inset histogram in (f) shows the distribution of values across all 3 km* grid cells and provides a legend for the
colours shown on the map. Grid cells where the probability of occurrence was projected to be below 0.1 in both the historical and future time periods are
shown in grey and are not included in the histogram, as we do not consider these to be important habitat for the species. Plots for all species and projected
changes from both climate models and both RCP scenarios are available in electronic supplementary material, appendix A and in our Shiny app (https://msea.
science/gf_climate_shiny/).

surveys. However, our final analysis included only the 34 species dissolved oxygen, log depth and survey. We included quadratic
(listed in the relevant figures) for which the models had adequate terms for temperature and log depth to allow species occurrences
forecasting ability, as outlined in the ‘Assessing predictive to peak at intermediate values (figure 1b-e). We fitted a breakpoint
accuracy’ section 2a(iii) below. function for log dissolved oxygen to reflect the fact oxygen is a lim-

Temperature, depth and dissolved oxygen for the observed iting factor [26]. That is, each species is expected to have an oxygen
data were obtained by CTD instrumentation and dissolved threshold, below which oxygen limitation is expected to reduce
oxygen sensors deployed on the headrope of the trawls. Dissolved their probability of occurrence, but above this threshold species
oxygen was available for 17.7% of the trawls. We filled in missing should not be sensitive to changes in oxygen concentrations [41].
oxygen data using predictions from a generalized linear mixed A survey term specifying the data souree—NOAA West Coast,
effects model fitted with the sdmTMB package [38] which was NOAA Alaska, NOAA Bering or DFO Pacific—was included as
also informed by an additional 7037 oxygen observations from a catchability covariate to account for variation in detection prob-
the International Pacific Halibut Commission (IPHC) ocean profile ability across surveys due to differences in survey design and gear.
data [39]. Full details of the dissolved oxygen model are provided We expected that these differences in detection probability should
in the electronic supplementary material. This model was able to be small because our analysis was based on the presence/absence
predict withheld data with an R* of 0.952 (electronic supplemen- data. The use of survey ID as a fixed effect in a presence/absence