change because they assume that species can always shift to extend beyond the broad spatial extent and environmental
deeper waters when conditions warm. By contrast, models range sampled by the surveys, we expect that this had negli-
that rely only on sea surface temperatures (e.g. [16]) assume gible impact on our projections because our focal region is
that species cannot shift in depth to deal with warming; situated in the middle of the geographical and environmental
thus they are likely to overestimate the sensitivity of ground- space sampled by the surveys. Reassuringly, the future
fish to climate change. The fact that dissolved oxygen and environmental conditions that are projected by our regional
depth were correlated, even in our coastwide dataset, posed models fall within the range of conditions present in our
a challenge for accurately estimating the oxygen responses survey data, except in the few warmest grid cells, where
in our models. For a subset of species, our models estimated future conditions are projected to exceed our observational
that occurrence decreased with increasing oxygen, which is range by less than 1°C (electronic supplementary material,
unlikely given the fact that oxygen is understood to be a lim- figure $12). Thus, we are largely avoiding extrapolating into
iting factor [41]. This indicates that, for these species, the novel climate conditions, which is a key source of uncertainty
models are erroneously attributing the fact that the species in many SDM projections [66]. By contrast, if we had extended
is not found in shallower oxygenated waters to oxygen our projections to cover the full spatial extent of the survey
rather than some other variable that is correlated with data, we would have had to use low-resolution outputs from
depth. Indeed, models without oxygen responses tended to global climate models, which have not been downscaled to
have similar forecast accuracy to those with oxygen incorporate the complex bathymetry of the continental shelf
responses, indicating that the depth response is able to cap- [67,68]. Alternatively, we could have stitched together multiple
ture the oxygen response, at least over the time period for regional ocean models (e.g. [69-71]), but this would have
which we have trawl data. However, these simpler models required additional assumptions because models differ in
that do not include oxygen, despite having similar ability to their underlying mechanics, data and assumptions. As our
forecast contemporary species distributions, unrealistically goal was to make projections that could be used for ongoing
assume that species will not respond to future changes in management initiatives in Canadian Pacific waters, this

oxygen. Therefore, because oxygen limitation is understood approach was not necessary.