Dispersion of plastics is another prominent example. It would mean a loss of about 13% of bird species there,
Property rights to natural capital are often ill-defined which would amount to 650 species. Other things equal,
because Nature is mobile. Problems are accentuated for extinction of 650 species of birds in 100 years out of a total
assets that are global public goods. The atmosphere and the of 10000 species of birds yields a figure for the number of
open seas (beyond exclusive economic zones) are paradig- extinctions per million species-years of 650 E MSY~!. That
matic. We make free use of the former as a sink for our is either 65 times or 650 times the background extinction
carbon emissions, and we use the latter without paying for rate, depending on whether that rate is taken to be
fishing in the deep and transporting people and trillions of 0.1 E MSY! or 1 E MSY".
dollars of merchandise across them. No one has sufficient Suppose, however, that humanity can restrain itself in the
incentives to preserve such assets even though we have a col- future and limits the destruction of tropical forests to only a
lective interest to preserve them. That is the familiar ‘tragedy further 25%. That would mean an eventual extinction of 6%
of the commons’ [81]. of bird species, that is, 300 species. That is either 30 times
The public goods dilemma is exacerbated by the fact that or 300 times the background extinction rate, depending on

ecosystems provide multiple provisioning goods. A piece of whether that rate is taken to be 0.1 E MSY~! or 1 E MSY7'.


Suppose for a moment too, that humanity can come to
grips with species extinction and limits tropical deforestation
to only a further 0.8% over the next 100 years. That would
mean an eventual extinction of 0.1% of bird species, that is,
10 species. Even that is 10 or 100 times the background
extinction rate, depending on whether that rate is taken to
be 0.1 E MSY“! or 1 E MSY~'. Obviously, destruction of tropi-
cal rainforests must come to a complete halt if the extinction