0 2 4 6 02 4 6 02 4 6 <
EB formation (days) o
S
Figure 3. (Continued.) *
S
S
different cell types represented in mouse gastrulation. This differentiation. Finally, we mapped Padi4-dependent transcrip- 2
revealed a strong representation for cells of the mesodermal line- tional changes onto the mouse gastrulation atlas to understand
age, specifically paraxial mesoderm, with some representation in the lineages affected by Padi4 loss. Collectively our results
somitic and pharyngeal mesoderm (figure 3c). Further analysis indicate a role for PADI4 in mesoderm specification and in
of the clusters depleted in Padi4-KO EBs showed that Clusters 4 cardiomyocyte and endothelial differentiation in particular.
and 6 are strongly identified as cardiomyocytes, while Cluster 8 We observed minimal gene expression changes in naive
is identified as endothelium (electronic supplementary material, pluripotent cells and widespread changes in EBs. The fact
figures S7-S9). that the Padi4 gene itself is strongly downsregulated upon EB
To corroborate the conclusions of the above analyses, we differentiation indicates that the presence of PADI4 at the
used qRT-PCR to measure the expression of key regulators of naive pluripotency stage has long-lasting consequences
mesodermal, cardiomyocyte and endothelial specification during differentiation, even in the absence of continuous gene
in WT and Padi4-KO samples during the time course of EB expression at that stage. Two potential reasons may underlie
differentiation, in independent experiments (figure 3d). We this observation. It is possible that many of the gene expression
find that Padi4 loss leads to impairment in Tall upregulation changes observed at the EB stage are indirect consequences of
at day 6, with strong downregulation by day 6. Similarly, Padi4 loss and downstream of direct PADI4 targets. In this
Padi4-KO EBs are impaired in the differentiation-dependent respect, the downregulation of Tall, a key regulator of
upregulation of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor mesoderm specification [5], may be operative in the observed
2 (Kdr) and the ETS transcription factor Friend of Leukemia gene expression changes. Alternatively, PADI4 may contribute
Virus Integration 1 (Flil), which mark endocardial and to the epigenetic changes that favour mesodermal specifica-