
occupation—is most strongly associated with the lack of trust. As median wages stagnate, and incomes at the top grow

Because social trust is important for effective negotiation, rapidly, democracies run the risk of making themselves vul-
trade and provision of public goods, this negative impact of nerable to authoritarian populism. ‘Conservative reactions
inequality on trust provides a pathway from high levels of can manifest themselves as a violent, nativist force directed
inequality to lower levels of economic growth, political against the other, fueled by resentment against globalization,
trust and political participation [52]. migrants, the closure of factories and plants, the blurring of

We have focused here on general inequality in the distri- genders, and the intrusion of different languages’ [65, p. 47].
bution of income, wealth, well-being and power—the As Norris & Inglehart argue, economic security and post-
distance from the top to the bottom in the overall distribution. materialism is not equally distributed among individuals in a
We have not examined inequality by group identity— society. In fact, according to economic grievance theory, ‘the ==>
between racial, ethnic, immigrant or gender groups, for least prosperous citizens in advanced industrialized econom- = 5
instance. However, the evolution of the overall distribution ies—the ‘losers’ from globalization—provide the strongest =
of wealth and income will shape the path of inequality support for authoritarian and populist values’ [65, p. 132]. =
across groups. In the USA case, for instance, the reduction More concerning, perhaps, are the serious and profound con-
in inequality in the mid-twentieth century and the widening sequences for democratic stability in terms of damage to = =
income distribution from the 1970s onwards had substantial democratic civic culture by way of decline in support for = 5!
effects on the path of inequality between African Americans democratic principles, decline in satisfaction with democratic >
and Whites. Having been denied access to education, skills performance and decline in social tolerance and trust [65, ch. =
and training, African Americans gained relative ground 12]. Alesina & Perotti [66], using data on 71 countries  &
when the returns to these attributes declined (in the mid- between 1960 and 1985, show that countries with lower eo]
twentieth century), and lost ground when the returns to shares of income flowing to the middle class (the third and S
these attributes increased and the general distribution fourth quintiles of the income distribution) are prone to