
who dominate key political, military and business institutions by way of political socialization or even genetics [28,29].

[15]. Domhoff [16, p. 115] expands on this point: They can also be structured and reproduced by institutional
In concert with the large banks and corporations in the corporate arrangements and periodic events such as economic
community, the foundations, think tanks, and policy-discussion downturns or ‘rally-round-the-flag’ events, such as the assassi-
groups in the policy-planning network provide the organiz- nation attempt of President Reagan [30] and the Persian Gulf
ational basis for the exercise of power on behalf of the owners War [31].

of all large income- producing properties. Political socialization matters for inequality because

The link between economic and political inequality may status and influence, as measured through political efficacy
simply reflect the fact that the well-off are better informed or political engagement, for example, are not equally distrib-
and more likely to vote [5,17,18]. It may also reflect direct uted among citizens. For democratic theorists, if political
and personal influence from economic elites on political information, efficacy and engagement are not equally
decision-makers [19]. In either case, individuals who possess distributed, then what effect does that have on the represen-
political power and influence can use it to enhance wealth tativeness of Americans in politics and policy? Are those who
accumulation, via tax, inheritance, welfare or labour policies, participate politically distinct from those who sit on the
for example. Individuals who possess wealth, education or sidelines of politics? If so, are those distinctions—or inequal-
privilege by way of some socially privileged category, such ities—perpetuated across time? And, if the answer is yes, by
as sex, religion or race/ethnicity, also are likely to possess what mechanism? Political socialization helps us understand

greater political influence [20,21]. Bartels [20] measures the persistence and change of some of the fundamental

