evolution of hierarchy to reduce the cost of rule formation. evolution of hierarchy in human societies. It is beyond the
Our model provides a plausible mechanism to explain the scope of this paper to cover all these different ideas, or to
broad-scale trend of human social evolution, which has seen assess whether our model is better supported empirically
human societies get larger and more hierarchically structured than others (see Currie & Perret [53] and Smith et al. [54],
[9,13-15], particularly since the development of agriculture this volume for recent overviews). However, an important
[12,45,46]. More fine-scaled observations also support the contrast is often made between those theories that focus on
predictions of our model. For example, archaeological infor- the benefit of hierarchy to the group as a whole (‘functional’,
mation from Mesa Verde in the southwest United States ‘managerial’ or ‘integrative’ theories, of which our model is
documents an association between increasing settlement an example), and those that focus on the benefits to those
populations and increasing evidence of hierarchy [47]. Agri- at the top of the hierarchy (‘extractive’, ‘despotic’, ‘conflict’
culture in the form of crop production is thought to be theories, e.g. Perret & Currie [55]). Our approach explicitly
a particularly important driver of this trend owing to the invokes the need to establish and modify rules as a key
fact it created a more sedentary lifestyle and increased organizational problem that leads to hierarchy. There are

population densities, thus increasing scalar stress and many aspects to the process of rule formation, and in


modern countries we are used to the idea that there are existing rules are playing out or being observed. Also, a | 10 |

distinct executive, judicial and legislative aspects of govern- designated leader may learn rules from the leaders of other
ance. In smaller-scale societies, these distinctions may not successful groups, avoiding the need for successful rules to S
be so formalized or separated, and indeed the political spread via differential migration, with the problems that =
game in our model is abstract enough to cover the processes entail for difficult political games. The flip slide, though, is = =
of consensus that occur across these domains. As such our that more formal leadership may lead to economic inequality =
approach potentially provides a more general framework within groups, with leaders monopolizing the group’s =