by a mechanism relying on experience-dependent plasticity not to affect auditory detection (whereas it did impair 2
[43]. Most studies discussed so far stressed that auditory- visual detection), and evidence about whether auditory sig-
evoked responses in V1 mainly reflect global auditory features nals might aid visual processing is mixed (cf. [48] and [46]).
such as loud onsets [37,42]. However, it was recently shown Another question which so far received less attention is
that audiovisual stimuli elicit auditory and multi-sensory whether sensory modalities other than audition similarly
responses in V1 tuned to single auditory features such as modulate or are represented in V1. Somatosensory and pro-
pitch [44]. This suggested that V1, by virtue of representing prioceptive stimuli have been reported to exert modulatory
auditory features, might itself contribute to auditory processing, influences on V1 [37,49,52-54], but data are scarcer for
thus disputing the long-standing view of a strict segregation other modalities such as taste and smell. As regards gustatory
between cortical areas tasked with processing distinct sensory effects, visual responses in higher order visual cortices were
modalities [36]. reported to be modulated by behaviourally relevant features
Nevertheless, new studies have challenged this picture. associated with visual stimuli such as aversive or appetitive
In fact, most auditory-related activity in V1 might reflect taste [55].

auditory-induced motor reactions—and therefore result from
corollary discharge (or its proprioceptive consequences)—

rather than actually coding auditory information [45,46]. (b) Non-sensory representations in V1
Specifically, stereotyped motor reactions to distinct auditory The previous paragraphs already introduced how the activity in
stimuli evoke large increases in firing activity in V1, differen- V1 is not only determined by visual information, but is also
tially encoding distinct motor responses [47] (figure 1c,d). This influenced by other sensory modalities and by non-sensory
motor-related activity likely underlies a significant fraction of factors such as body movement.
what was thought to be the consequence of direct auditory pro- Several other non-sensory sources of information also
jections to V1 [45,46,48]. Significantly, even some features of exert an influence on V1 by modulating visual responses.
auditory modulation of visual processing are in line with a This is the case, for instance, for arousal [56-58], locomotion