making [84,85], this was recently extended to up to 200 ms, or responses in V1 [46,100], suggesting that there is an asymmetry
more precisely until the onset of the late, report-related bump between the two sensory systems. Analogously, asymmetries
in activity [41]. What is encoded in this late wave of activity have been reported between somatosensory, visual and vestib-
remains to be fully uncovered, since current studies have been ular areas [37,52,54,103]. For example, tactile stimuli were
unable to disambiguate pre-motor (preparatory) activity, found to inhibit V1, but visual stimuli induce depolarizations
report-related correlates and reward anticipation as possible in somatosensory cortex [37]. Moreover, while correlates of
sources of its origin. orofacial movement have been found in V1, much weaker
An intriguing possibility is that this wave of report- motor correlates were reported in auditory cortex [46]. Overall,
related activity is the neuron-level equivalent of the these results suggest that processing of information from non-
P3b component of electroencephalography evoked-response primary modalities may not follow the same principles across
potentials in human studies, that has been hypothesized as sensory systems.
a marker of conscious access [86,87], but remains highly A related question is whether the same rules apply to differ-
controversial [88,89]. In fact, similarly to the P3b, this wave ent species. As mentioned, sound-evoked responses in V1 have
of activity follows an earlier, perception-independent peak been reported to occur at the neuronal level in species other
of sensory-evoked activity and only arises when animals than rodents, including non-human primates. It remains to
report the detection of a visual stimulus. By disentangling be seen, however, whether the same circuit-level implemen-
the origin of the P3b, what it encodes and its role in sensory tations discovered in rodents also hold in cats, ferrets and
processing and perception, further insights on the primates, all species in which multi-sensory processing has
mechanisms of conscious vision may thus be facilitated. also been studied [98,99,104-107]. A concern might be that
Another example of a non-visual influence on V1, that is most of the cross-talk between systems described in rodents
indicative of how visual cortex also encodes cognitive vari- might stem from the small size of their brains, which could
ables, is navigational information. It has been found that facilitate widespread cross-modal communication between
the location of animals in an environment can be decoded relatively distant areas. However, recent studies in primates
from the activity of visual cortex [90,91]. Spatial represen- reported that spontaneous body movements could explain a
tations in V1 are coordinated with hippocampal activity large fraction of variance in the activity of cortical neurons,