suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and brainstem oculomotor rely on subcortical pathways, but this argument leaves unan- 5!
nuclei illustrate the role of photic signalling in e.g. orientation swered why discriminating oriented gratings does require = >
behaviour (SC), optokinetic reflexes and other oculomotor visual cortex. The most plausible answer, in our view, is =
reactions (AOS, brainstem [146]) and day-night rhythmicity that solving an orientation discrimination problem involves — &
(SCN), while not being directly linked to visual perception, not only photic processing per se, but also other information =
as their functioning can proceed in the absence of it. In this such as of motor or proprioceptive origin, namely to compute >
sense, ‘visual information’, ‘visual pathways’, etc. if applied whether a detected orientation flip is due to an external or s
to brain systems involved in photically driven functions but internal (self-induced) change, such as a rotation of the head. S
not in visual perception, can be dismissed as misnomers. Thus, vision is much more complicated than the gradual 2

A second rationale to apply terms like ‘visual information’ build-up of cortical response profiles to increasingly more com-
with caution is that the very notion of ‘information’ (under- plex visual features along the visual cortical hierarchy. This is
stood in Shannon’s sense [147]) does not strictly permit a furthermore illustrated by the fact that such a system alone
specification by sensory modality. Shannon’s definition of does not possess the capacities to stabilize object images in
information is anchored in statistics and hinges on reduction view of eye, head and other body movements. Indeed, the stab-
of uncertainty (or ‘surprise’). In this definition, there is no ility of visual representations of our external environment
place for different ‘kinds’ of information (e.g. visual), as Shan- (except for moving objects) is considered a hallmark of con-
non information conveys no semantic or content-related scious experience [152,153]. As reviewed in §§2 and 3, the
meaning (cf. [9,148]). accumulated evidence demonstrates strong motor-related sig-

That it is recommended to refrain from applying ‘visual nalling to the visual cortex, and at least part of the functions
information’ liberally, is underscored by the (often implicit) of this signalling can be understood as a form of corollary dis-
assumption that processing such information would be charge, or motor prediction, that can be used within the visual
an intrinsic property of the visual cortical system. To see the cortex to correct for body movements to generate stabilized
underlying problem with intrinsic modality-coding, we world images, enabling animals to navigate efficiently through