4. movement

Figure 1. As a stressor, ALAN can simultaneously directly impact species across all trophic levels, and multiple levels of biological organization (individual, com-
Munity, ecosystem). In this paper, we discuss how known impacts of ALAN to (a) primary production, physiology and fitness, biological timings, and movement
behaviour can scale up to re-shape reef communities by (b) altering the physical structure of the reef, redistributing species among reef habitat, disrupting or
shifting the outcomes of species interactions, and shifting the balance of bottom-up and top-down regulation on the reef. These changes to reef communities
have the potential to significantly alter ecosystem dynamics, possibly even creating novel ecosystems. Potential scenarios where ALAN could create novel ecosystems
include (c) creation of the ‘night light niche’, causing diversity collapse of key reef organisms, interfering with population connectivity and source—sink dynamics,
and disrupting the complex trophic interactions during the diel vertical migration. (Online version in colour.)

for the positive effect of ALAN on primary productivity. Other Indeed, ALAN has been found to elicit oxidative stress and
studies, however, found no effects of ALAN on consumption reduce photosynthetic performance in Red Sea corals [28,30],
rates of grazers, such as sea-urchins [23], highlighting the fact with impacts found to be more extreme under shorter wave-
that responses to ALAN are species and context specific, and length light (blue and white spectrum LED lights compared
emphasizing the need to move beyond single organism studies to yellow spectrum LED lights; [30]). ALAN can also disrupt
in assessing the impacts of ALAN on trophic interactions, and the coral-dinoflagellate symbiosis [28,31], and alter pathways
community and ecosystem level dynamics. of gene expression, with approximately 25 times more differen-

tially expressed genes that regulate cell cycle, cell proliferation,
cell growth and protein synthesis under ALAN [26]. Further-

(b) Physiology, fitness and survival more, ALAN can affect gametogenesis and the timing of
Light is a critical environmental cue for the regulation of gamete release, impacting coral reproduction ([32]; see §2c Bio-
key hormone pathways responsible for the physiological logical timings). Though research on the physiological impacts
functioning of an individual. In both vertebrates [24] and of ALAN on corals is only in its infancy, these studies demon-