roles to play in global policies of climate-change adaptation who have called for climate change reparations that provide
[54]. However, our argument in this paper raises an acute chal- economic support and tractable means of fossil-fuel reduction
lenge to those who would maintain that such technological and environmental safeguards to communities that have
innovations will arise in the context of open market national been subject to colonial rule and imperialistic practices
economies or as the natural byproduct of human cultural pro- [18,55,63]. Whatever the fate of this specific policy proposal,
gress more generally (cf. [24]). For as we have already noted, we take our argument to show any discussion of policies of
economic competition between and within cultural groups climate change adaptation is incomplete without a recog-
(whether those groups are nations, corporations or groups of nition of the roles of colonialism and imperialism in
other kinds) generates incentive structures that favour shaping the current geopolitical landscape [65].

already-established practices of energy production and con-
sumption. These pressures from cultural group competition
are amplified by the fact that the effects of climate change are

inherently unpredictable. This is especially true in light of 6. Conclusion
what have been called climate-change cascades [55-57], in Culture may well be the secret to humans’ remarkable success
which one type of environmental effect not only triggers in geographical range and distribution. But culture also gives
another type of environmental effect but also triggers changes rise to outcomes that generate substantial risks to the character
in human patterns of migration and intergroup relations. These and quality of the lives of humans and other living organisms.
climate-change cascades can be expected to have profound The Anthropocene provides a vivid case in point. A recognition
effects on economic markets and the ability of such of the role of human cumulative cultural evolution—and of
markets—unstructured by top-down regulations and protec- human cultural niche construction—in the rise of the Anthro-
tions—to generate technological innovations that serve to pocene leads to a more nuanced understanding of both the
remit the climate crisis. prospects and the perils of cultural evolution. More signifi-
The question of which kinds of structural interventions are cantly, we have argued that taking seriously the sometimes