on oligodendrocyte differentiation, we silenced Padi2a and and PADI2f-overexpressing oligodendrocyte precursors.
Padi2B in parallel using the oligodendrocyte precursor cell Proteasomal inhibition resulted in the accumulation of the
line (Olineu) [31] and evaluated the effect on differentiation shorter PADI2£ isoform in control as well as in PADI2-
compared to precursors targeted with a control siRNA. overexpressing precursors (figure 2d, 24 h). To verify the iden-
These experiments confirmed that PADI2o. and PADI2£ have tity of the relatively weak PADI2o immunoreactivity seen on

opposing effects on oligodendrocyte precursor differentiation, western blot, we repeated the experiment using differentiated


oligodendrocytes, a setting where the baseline expression enrichment in the inner differentiated layers of the hair fol- | 5 |

of Padi2a is increased (electronic supplementary material, licle (hair shaft and IRS). By contrast, LacZ-reporter activity
figure S1b-d). We found that PADI2a was firmly expressed was reduced in the ORS, corresponding largely to the FACS
in differentiated oligodendrocytes, confirming the previously isolated ITGa6-high hair follicle cell population (figures 3d
demonstrated [12,32-35] specificity of the PADI2 antibody and 4a). To address if Padi3a and Padi3f transcripts are co-
(electronic supplementary material, figure Sle). These data expressed throughout the hair follicle lineage or spatially
suggest that the N-terminal truncation of PADI2§ affects restricted to discrete cell states during lineage progression,
PADI28 stability and that transient, or low abundant, we designed isoform-specific in situ hybridization probes
expression of PADI26 can act to modulate the effects of and visualized Padi3a and Padi38 in developing hair follicles
PADI2« in oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation. (figure 4b). We found that Padi3a and Padi3f transcripts were

expressed by hair follicle progenitor cells as well as differen-
tiated lineages (figure 4c). Whereas the in situ signal for

(c) Padi3a and Padi3B are co-expressed In developing Padi3a was more pronounced compared to Padi3£ intensity