previously known. Understanding whether the citrullinated endocytosis pathways in an unconventional manner, in
organelle proteins identified in this study are present in other addition to autophagic processes, to traffic and modify sub- = =
subcellular localizations within monocytes and determining strates leading to citrullination of a large and diverse set of = =
whether citrullination occurs at extranuclear and extracytosolic organelle-associated proteins. Understanding the role of — _
sites should be subject to further studies. Additionally, the PAD4 in subcellular compartments in healthy and disease =
effects of citrullination on the function and structure of orga- states is an important next step in identifying novel targets = 5!
nelle proteins and the role they play in healthy versus disease for preventing aberrant PAD4 activation in diseases marked = >
states need to be elucidated further in future studies. by dysregulated protein citrullination. =

PAD4 expression in the cytosol may be explained by the g
process whereby nuclear proteins are translated by free ribo- Ethics. This work did not require ethical approval from a human =
somes present in the cytoplasm prior to nuclear import, subject or animal welfare committee. S
and also by the fact that nuclear versus cytosolic distribution Data accessibility. All of the datasets supporting this article have been s
of proteins can be regulated by post-translational modifications grieaded as part of the electronic supplementary material, databases S
[48,49]. However, the mechanism by which PAD4, which lacks The mass spectrometry proteomics data also have been deposited. 3
ER import signal sequences and transmembrane domains, traf- to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner reposi-
fics to the cell surface and is retained there has been a mystery. tory with the dataset identifier PXD044188 [25].
While PAD4 is known to influence the function of cytoplasmic The data are provided in electronic supplementary material [55].
proteins (e.g. NADPH oxidase complex) and the translocation Declaration of Al use. We have not used AlI-assisted technologies in creat-

of nuclear proteins (e.g. Elk-1) [13,50], our data show that ing this article.

PAD4 may have a larger array of binding partners, which
may influence its multiregional localization within the cell.
