The marked difference between TH roles across vertebrate The thyroid gland produces mostly 3,5,3',5’-tetraiodothyr- =
species has long remained an enigma. It may be attributed to onine (also called thyroxine or T4) into the bloodstream. T4 >
historical bias in the model systems used for TH research— can be transformed by deiodination into T3 (3,5,3'-triiodothyr- Ss
frogs for metamorphosis and human/mouse for metabolic onine), the active compound that binds to its specific receptors. =
studies. It is also clearly possible that there has been strong Deiodination is ensured by deiodinases which remove iodine = S'
evolutionary diversification of TH function across ver- from T4 and T3, hence finely regulating the amount of active = &
tebrates. Yet, all three roles could alternatively just be hormone in target tissues. Deiodinase 2 (dio2) activates T4 =
versions of a same basic function with different manifes- into T3, whereas deiodinase 3 (dio3) transforms T3 into T2, 3
tations in different organisms. Recent findings reinforce the which is much less active, and is therefore associated with =
latter hypothesis, which we will develop in this review by decreased TH signalling. The third deiodinase, diol, can 3
suggesting a shared ecological role of TH across vertebrates, either activate or degrade TH, making its presence in tissues w
potentially extending to a significant portion of bilaterian more complex to decipher (reviewed in [7]). S
species. In fact, we believe that on top of regulating acclim- In the bloodstream, TH are carried by specific transporters
ation to different environments, TH govern ontogenetic to target tissues. Inside target cells, T3 binds to the thyroid hor- ~
transitions by ensuring their alignment with the surrounding mone receptors (TR) which, with their heterodimeric partners,
environment, particularly with regards to energy expendi- retinoid X receptors (RXR), are involved in the regulation of a
ture, which must indeed correspond to available resources. multitude of target genes [1,8]. Furthermore, TH can also con-
These transitions occur during post-embryonic development trol cellular changes via nongenomic mechanisms, e.g. by
(i.e. metamorphosis, which is present in all vertebrates); yet acting on membrane receptors, transporter molecules, and
there are also other transitions, such as seasonal ones, cytoplasmic receptors, and by altering cellular pathways
during which it is important to adjust physiology to changing (e.g. cyclic adenosine monophosphate, inositol triphosphate,
resource availability. The operating logic, at least common to Ca**), indirectly modifying gene expression [9,10].
all vertebrates, is therefore to orchestrate transitions and to Interestingly, TH signalling is also tightly linked to other
ensure that they are done in harmony with the environment endocrine systems, in particular glucocorticoids (GC) that
in which they occur. After briefly outlining the fundamental control stress and metabolism. GC synthesis is regulated by