environment and the food substrate. Evolutionarily, this inter- of plant substrates on feeding is the extreme heterogeneity of
dependency is perhaps best illustrated by the transition from plant leaves, which makes quantifying their physical proper-
feeding in water to feeding on land, which involves accompa- ties particularly difficult. In this issue, Ptiffel et al. [40] use a
nying changes in the mechanics of the feeding system as it synthetic substrate to standardize the material properties in
shifts from operating in water to air, as well as in the nutri- order to investigate underlying relationships between feeding
tional needs of the animal and in the availability of food system function (e.g. cutting force and speed) and mandible
(discussed in [73]). It is well recognized that, fundamentally, size and wear. However, the links between food processing
these changes are dictated by extrinsic changes in the physics and nutritional assimilation in the gastrointestinal tract, as
of the environment (drag, gravity, buoyancy and viscosity; they relate to food material properties, have yet to be made
see [74] for a recent discussion). Factors affecting the food explicit for any given vertebrate or invertebrate taxon.

bolus are sourced from the external environment and from Understanding how food processing and _ nutritional
inside the oropharyngeal cavity. The fact that microbes rep- assimilation change with variation in substrate and the
resent an important food source—not only those found in environment is also particularly relevant to understanding
the environment in ‘farming’ invertebrates [75] or ‘detritivor- the influence of environmental change. Increasing climate
ous’ fish [76], but also those living in the digestive tract variability, aridification and warming are factors that have
of many mammals that have evolved adaptations for the potential to influence the entire pre- and post-oesopha-
their harvest [68]—is not reflected in traditional trophic geal system as the ecological profiles of the world’s animals
niche concepts of faunivory-omnivory-herbivory. Moreover, change and their food resources shift. Climate change, for
in the context of major environmental transitions, there are example, is likely to increase the threat of herbivorous insects
likely emergent intrinsic properties, for instance resulting in agriculture and forestry. As regulations against unsubstan-
from interactions between the environment in which feeding tiated chemical insecticide use are becoming stricter, growers
occurs and the substratum that is being fed upon, and such need alternative options to protect their crops, such as identi-
emergent properties are yet to be made explicit. For instance, fying plant features—both chemical and physical—that
as organisms invade land, drag on the feeding system deter insect herbivory. However, little is known about the