beliefs, preferences, social roles and material possessions. They probe this distinction through an experimental manipulation = =
of the ‘Enfacement’ illusion in which a participant has their face stroked while watching another person’s face being stroked  -S
synchronously. Similar to the famous ‘rubber hand illusion’ [111], this is sufficient to cause the participant to experience some © =
degree of ‘ownership’ over the other’s face as indicated by questionnaire and perceptual judgements tasks, as well as broader = >

effects on affective ratings and judgements about attractiveness, trustworthiness, personality similarity and implicit attitudes. ©
Payne & Catmur [8] find that this illusion is enhanced by greater initial conceptual similarity (operationalized as gender =

independent of physical similarity), suggesting a complex relationship between the construction of conceptual and bodily © 5
selves. =

Such complexity echoes more general debates about the nature of human consciousness, which has been characterized as =
everything from a concretely embodied feeling [112] to a form of computational self-reference [113]. In fact, different people
likely mean many different things when they talk about consciousness. Damasio [112], for example, distinguishes between the © =:
protoself (a neural ‘mapping’ of the physical state of the body), a ‘core’ consciousness roughly comparable to the bodily selfand © 5
an ‘extended’ consciousness that includes autobiographical narratives comparable to one’s ‘identity’ or conceptual self. It is not «©
clear whether a purely symbolic narrative consciousness that was not built on top of embodied sensation would be possible or = 4
even conceptually coherent. It will thus be very interesting to investigate what kind of consciousness, if any, ungrounded LLMs
might potentially instantiate and how it would differ from the inherently embodied human experience. w

4. Conclusion: the continued relevance of embodied cognition s

On the one hand, readers will not be surprised to learn that we believe contributions to this issue make a strong case for the
continued relevance and utility of embodied perspectives on cognition, culture and evolution. On the other hand, it is clear that
realizing this promise will present important methodological, theoretical and pragmatic challenges, not least of which is the