part of the ecological community fall outside of the scope of restoration but within the domain of rehabilitation, particularly where
the recovery of ecosystem function is a primary goal. Our focus in this perspective is to better understand the dynamics of mixed
species communities for the purpose of achieving both biodiversity and function goals (therefore most consistent with the goals
of ecological rehabilitation), given that multiple alien species are increasingly persistent members of the landscape.

(b) Managing species movements S
As mixed communities continue to emerge globally, revisiting contextual definitions of introduced species (i.e. binary alien/native, —
harmful/not harmful) is becoming more complex but more important than ever to inform management actions [87]. Focus on the = =

role of dispersal in invasion biology has to date been on the human-mediated pathways and vectors responsible for transporting = 5
alien propagules from one place to the next, with the intention of managing these to prevent the introduction and spread of IAS = *
[88]. In a NPF-BI context, the focus shifts to (i) how to manipulate the movement of propagules, individuals and populations (pre-
vent or facilitate) to best achieve a net positive outcome for biodiversity and ecosystems, and (ii) an appreciation of the fact that ==

both climate change and human-mediated introduction and spread of populations are driving changes in species distributions ©
[89-91]. 2

Multiple pieces of evidence jointly factor into decisions on if, and if so how, to intervene when species move beyond theirknown = &
historic boundaries (figure 2). First is the nature of the agency involved (intentional or accidental human intervention, or a species &

undergoing range expansion owing to climate warming). The native range boundaries and agency involved are likely to becomeever = =
more uncertain as climates warm with the resulting re-organization of local communities [92,93]. Second, are dispersal events likely
to have desirable or undesirable outcomes (figure 2)? Individual species may have both beneficial and detrimental consequences in
different places or on different aspects of society or the environment [15]. Third, in which direction (negative or positive) and how
large the outcomes are likely to be for those species whose effects are known? The stronger the weight of evidence for the spatial