the behaviour of a system that is ‘larger than the sum of its parts’—at the level of communities. Moreover, the vast majority
(~99%) of microorganisms remain uncultured [48], and laboratory-based studies can fail to grasp the environmental context
in which natural interactions occur because many microbial metabolic processes occur in the context of communities and not
simple cultures. Overall, to fully understand community processes, there has to be a balance between a focused approach
to divide complex processes into smaller ones that can be better observed, quantified and characterized mechanistically, and
holistic approaches focusing on the interconnections between system components (figure 1). These holistic approaches to
studying natural habitats more directly can yield complementary data to help deduce the interactions.

3. Insilico approaches for community-level studies

(a) Plankton sampling expeditions in the twenty-first century

As stated previously, collecting information from laboratory-based experiments remains biased by the fact that we are able
to grow only a small fraction of the organisms present in a natural sample. Significant advances in the field have been
made with the development of ‘omics techniques, which have revolutionized our understanding of microbial communities by
disentangling complex information encrypted in a single ecosystem, circumventing the need to grow natural samples in the
laboratory. Typical ‘omics data in phytoplankton community ecology encompass metabarcoding, metagenomics, metatranscrip-
tomics and metabolomics (see Glossary). While the first technique enables the simultaneous identification of different species in
a given environment and provides estimates of species diversity, the others give insights about the functional characterization of
organisms (i.e. their biological role) by providing clues about how they respond and adapt to changes in their environment and
are therefore complementary [49]. A few global projects have tried to compile a holistic view of microbial plankton ecosystems
by establishing an inventory of their diversity and abundance (we invite the interested reader to see a detailed review of
the history of phytoplankton exploration in [50]). Among them, three major projects brought to light the extreme diversity of
plankton organisms through the exploration of their genomic information.
