- found in connection with portions of the compound lamina. Where the latter are
é seen in surface view, some idea of the form of the leaf may be obtained. Since
Memoir VI. was published, additional evidence has been accumulated, and the conelu-
Ssion then reached is confirmed, namely, that the leaf would fall under the for m-genus
sp phenopteris of Bronenrart, as shown by the finely cut foliage and the acute angles
tween the veins.* It is impossible to reconstruct the leaf from the fragmentary
mains, which are alone available : but we may take it as certain that it was a highly
geompound leaf of the Sphenopteris type. The leaflets appear to have been decurrent
Om the finer branches of the rachis. We cannot venture to refer the leaf to any known
Expecies of Sphenopteris, but a certain resemblance to various forms can be traced,
Bee, for example, the figures of S. Haninghausi, S. tridactylites, S. linearis, &c., in
RONGNIART'S “ Histoire des végétaux fossiles.”)
The mere fact, that the foliage of Lyginodendron resembled that of certain Ferns is
Sn itself no proof of affinity with Filices. The classical case of Stangeria is a sufficient
arning against any such hasty inference. It must, however, be remembered that in
the foliage of Lyginodendron we have not only fern-like form and venation, but
fern-like structure, whereas in the case of Stangeria a single transverse section of
gthe petiole would be sufficient to prove that the plant is no Fern but a Cycad.
= Where a number of sections have been cut from the same specimen, it is possible to
Grace the repeated branching of the rachis and to observe the insertion of the leaflets
pon its branches. The leaflets shown in section in Plate 19, photograph 7, and
plate 24, fig. 16 are from the series C.N. 1191-1198, and belong to leaves, the petioles of
Brhich, seen in other sections of the same series, present the characteristic structure of
‘BRachiopteri is aspera. A section of one of the petioles from this series, no doubt
secondary branch, has been figured in Memoir XVIL., Plate 13, fig. 7. Though not