two. This distinction is rendered still more obvious if the lengths of the calcareous
“handle” of the larva be considered. Thus in the Strongylocentrotus and Echinus
hybrids it is respectively only 9°9 and 18°8 per cent. shorter than in the pure
Echinocardium larvee, but in the Spherechinus and Arbacia hybrids respectively
51°7 and 29°6 per cent. shorter. In the last column but one of the above table are
Sgiven the differences between the total body-lengths and the “ handle” lengths. It
will be seen that a practically constant number is obtained. It follows, therefore,
Bhat the shortening of the total body-length measurements was due entirely to
2 shortening of the “handle” portion, the rest of the skeleton remaining unaffected.
Ahe somewhat large difference value obtained with Spherechinus was probably
Snly accidental, for in this case only six larvee were obtained for measurement, and
&n two of these the “handle” had not begun to develop at all. On consideration of
the fact that the “ handle” portion of the skeleton is formed almost entirely between
obhe fifth and eighth days of larval growth, it will, however, be seen that the view
“that the sperm was able to partly impress its own larval type upon that of the
‘hybrid has but little justification. 1t ean only be concluded that with Spherechinus
Sind Arbacia hybrids there is a somewhat greater delay in the development than
‘Bvith those of Strongylocentrotus and Echinus. Supposing, on the other hand, the
hybrids had been allowed to develop 12 or 16 days, and were still found to present
othe same considerable shortening of the “handle” portion, then the former view
would be more justified. Unfortunately the numbers of larvee obtained were so
small that it was not possible to carry out this further experiment.
= The next series of experiments was not nearly so successful. Thus a few pure
SEchinocardium larvee were obtained, but these only lived five days. The measure-
Bments made are given under Exp. 130. No hybrid plutei were obtained, but