Various other improvements have been made for me by Mr. Adam Hilger, of London,
to which I need not further refer, except to thank him for the excellent way in which
he performed a difficult task. In this instrument the size of the aperture (of slit) is
reduced or increased 0°00254 millim. when the graduated drumhead of screw is turned
through one division. When the drumhead stands at 100, at which number we start
to make the calculation, the aperture of slit is 0°254 millim. I have given the
percentages of the wnabsorbed light, not the co-efficients of extinction, as this is more
convenient for the construction of curves, and is the method adopted by Professor
ENGELMANN. t
The first point to be decided is this :—What is the difference shown by the spectro-
photometer between plant chlorophyll and entero-chlorophyll? The reply is a
considerable difference in the respective curves, but, and here comes the most
interesting fact, if we change plant chlorophyll into the modified pigment, or what is
practically the same thing, into the slightly acid modification, by adding a little acetic
acid and allowing it to stand some hours (about twenty-four), the curve follows closely,
in its maxima and in its minima, expressing of course the maxima and minima of
absorption of light by the solution, the curve of entero-chlorophyll and of Chatopterin.
It is necessary to give the acid time to act on the plant chlorophyll, as the curve is at
first not quite the same as that obtained when the action has gone on for some hours.
I used an absolute alcohol solution of Nasturtium leaves prepared in the cold. I need
not give the numbers expressing the percentage of unabsorbed light in the case of an
aleohol solution of plant chlorophyll, because we cannot take exactly the same
regions of the spectrum for comparison with either entero-chlorophyll or Chzetopterin.
I have chosen Professor ENGELMANN’s spectrum regions for the latter, and the
following numbers give the percentages of unabsorbed light. Each measurement was