taken just where the attachment between sporangium and sporophyll ceases, at the
distal end. The sporangium has the curious triangular form noticed above as
characteristic of this part (p. 296). The integument which has grown up around it
closely follows its contour. The structure of the sporangium shows the same
characters as before, unless it be that in this part the internal layers of the wall are
better developed or better preserved than elsewhere. ‘Two abortive megaspores are
evident, and there is part of the membrane of a third, which may have been the
functional one. The most interesting point is perhaps the form of the sporophyll,
which here has a distinct wing or lamina (/) projecting beyond the base of the
integument. This feature is shown still more clearly in fig. 13, which represents
part of another “seed,” in similar section. The presence of this laminar margin
exactly agrees with what we found in the corresponding region of the non-integu-
mented specimens, (Fig 2, 1.) The fact is important, because it proves that the
integument is not merely the incurved lamina of the sporophyll, folding round the
sporangium, and forming a kind of false indusium, but is really a new formation
growing up from the upper surface of the sporophyll. In the more proximal part of
the pedicel, where the base of the integument corresponds with the margin of the
sporophyll, either interpretation might hold good, but the structure in the distal
region proves that integument and lamina are quite distinct organs. The section
shown in phot. 16, from the series so often referred to, is no doubt in a somewhat
more distal plane than that of fig. 12. The sporangium here appears as a three-
rayed body, with an extremely narrow cavity. The apical limb of the sporangium is
short, and so also is the micropylar passage of the integument. The sporophyll is
very thick, and the integument is seated upon it with a broad base. The section
appears to have been cut in the region of the ligule, which however is not seen. As