S which form the floor of the vestibule, so that there are at this stage no distinct
© tentacles (fig. 29). Very soon, however, this mass of cells splits into five broad lobes,
= which may be looked upon as five primary tentacles ; but as at the same time each of
% the five primary pouches of the hydrocele splits at its free end into three, we have
3 already the rudiments of fifteen tentacles: at a slightly later period each of these
s fifteen tentacles projects freely and independently into the cavity of the vestibule.
5 On the ninth day the epithelium of the hydrocele is very high, and its lumen small ;
‘S but the lumen steadily increases at the expense of the epithelium, until by the
4 fourteenth day the latter has become quite flat, while other changes have taken place,
@ which will be described later. The tentacles long retain a more columnar epithelium.
= As soon as ever the cystid form is reached the anterior blind end of the hydrocele
= (see fig. 61) grows aborally and outwards in the oral (left) longitudinal mesentery ; in
@ fact, since it is present before the latter is fully formed, it may be looked upon as
& determining the position of this mesentery, The tube thus formed, which is the
® equivalent of the “ stone-canal” of other Echinoderms, has the same high epithelium
as the rest of the hydrocele ring, and it retains this character throughout, instead of
3 sharing in the changes which the main part of the hydrocele subsequently undergoes.
AQ After entering the body-wall it turns slightly towards the oral surface, and on about
the tenth day opens into the parietal canal (anterior body-cavity) (fig. 30). The
course of the communication thus established between the hydrovele and the exterior
is somewhat complicated, but can be traced in figs. 32, 33, and 34, which are taken
from a series of transverse sections of a larva of the twelfth day, starting from the
oral surface. In fig. 32 the edge of the water-pore is cut, together with the
commencement of the parietal canal and of the water-tube. Owing to a slight
obliquity in the plane of section, the lower wall of the water-vascular ring is cut on