is this, that if the surface-tension at 3 increases, the film stretching from 3 to 2 on the
inside of the vessel, will be drawn upwards and with it water, which can be held up
permanently at the higher level by a slight increase in the convexity of the film 3.
Attempts to demonstrate actions of this character in the wood were not particularly
successful. Thus, strips of living wood containing a few vessels, were laid on a slide
crossed by transverse bars of vaseline. Between these were placed alternating water
and saline solutions, increasing in strength towards one end. Slight movements of
the air-bubbles do occur when the fibre is moved, so that one end of an air-bubble is
brought alternately nearer to a saline solution than to water, and then further away.
In addition, a flow of (coloured) water takes place along the vessel towards the
region of increasing concentration, but it is apparently independent of any action of
the air-bubbles, and is probably the direct result of the unavoidable osmotic action,
The water is able to pass the air-bubbles when these are stationary, a fact which has
already been observed by SrRasBuRGER in the tracheides of Conifers. +
In addition, observations were made upon living wood in situ by the following
means. A block of wood was chiselled out from a tree (pear, apple and elm), leaving
intact a strip of the superficial wood on one side. The inner side of this was
smoothed, a glass slide applied to it and sealed round the edges with wax. The
moistened outer side was now shaved down with a sharp razor until transparent, and
from one to two vessels thick. A cover slip was at once attached by a rim of soft wax,
and the rest of the wood covered with wet cotton-wool. The preparation was
illuminated by a mirror placed on the inner side, and viewed through a knee-bend
microscope, the base of which was fixed against the trunk of the tree. I was not,
however, able to satisfy myself of the existence of any definite relationship between
the size and relative positions of the air-bubbles in the vessels and the medullary rays.