occupies a shallow fissure, and is better seen in young animals than in adult. It is
particularly evident in the lower thoracic and upper lumbar regions. In fully-grown
Dogs, in the Monkey, and, to a less extent, in the Human adult, a small septum, more
marked than any of the neighbouring, projects into the lateral column at the level of
the ventral extremity of the area of the crossed pyramidal tract; it has repeatedly
seemed to me that this septum is identical with the thickening of the sub-pial
membrane found in the still imperfectly developed cord of the young animal. In
cords in which the crossed pyramidal tract comes to form a large portion of the
lateral column, it would seem that with the growth of the tract the shallow bay
containing tissue continuous with the sub-pial membrane becomes, so to say, unfolded
and more shallow, even to disappearance. But a septum thrusting itself into the
lateral column at the spot records the site of its existence. That the septum is of
real morphological significance, I believe, from the fact that it divides from one
another two masses of nerve-fibres, which offer a strong contrast in their appearance.
On the dorsal aspect of the septum lie coarse fibres of fairly equable size (cerebellar) ;
on the ventral exists an admixture composed largely of fine fibres (ascending antero-
lateral). In the Monkey, in which animal, as I have indicated,* a portion of the
pyramidal tract lies outside the cerebellar along the surface of the lateral column,
the fibres of the pyramidal tract, as marked out by the degeneration method,
generally, when followed along the surface in the ventral direction, cease abruptly at
the little septum in question. In some instances, especially in the upper cervical
region, a few scattered fibres belonging to the pyramidal tract may be found on the
ventral side of the septum; but this appears to be quite exceptional for the cord
asawhole. But I have never found nerve-cells either in the septum or in the sub-pial
band.