intra-spinal course. If this nomenclature be transferred to the Mammalian cord, then the cells of the
posterior vesicular column are the innere Hinterzellen of Petromyzon, and the out-lying cells of the
posterior root-zone are the intra-spinal set of the dussere Hinterzellen. As judged of from Freup's
figures of Ammocetes’ cord, the innere Hinterzellen do certainly in their position, and fairly in their form
also, justify Sritiine’s view of their identity with Cuarkn’s vesicular column of the Mammalian cord,
The appearance of them in some sections of Ammuoccetes’ cord, which T have been permitted to examine
through the kindness of Dr. Gaskett, also bears out in this respect the impression obtained from the
figures given by Freup. That the cells of CrarKn’s column are connected on their proximal side with
the fibres of the cerebellar tract admits of little doubt; as to their distal connections, it may be said that
two views are current. The one, which has recently been ably supported by Morr (loc. cit.), is that the
cells are connected with afferent fibres, fibres of the posterior root. The other (GaskeLt, Hit.) is that
Cranrker’s column is connected with the efferent fibres of anterior roots. Of these views, the former, I
think, derives support from the facts observed with regard to out-lying cells in the posterior root-zone
of the cord; but it is difficult to believe that these out-lying cells, although they appear equivalent to
members of Crarke’s column, can be at all closely connected with any fibres in the anterior root. Indeed,
it appears more likely that not only the vesicular group of CLarke, and the out-lying cells of the external
posterior column, but also the cells described above (p, 43) as occurring in and near the gelatinosa, all
belong to the afferent system entering by the posterior root.—June 12, 1890.]
* ‘ Archiv fiir Physiologie,’ Du Bots-Reymonp, 1888.
+ “Beob. iiber d, Befruchtung u. Entwick. des Kaninch. u. Meerschw.” ‘Ztschr. f, Anat. u.
Entwickl., vol. 1, 1876.
t “ Die Entwick. der Gangl. u. des Lobus clectricus,” ‘Sitz. d. Kais. Akad. za Wien,’ vol. 74,
§ Interesting in this connection are the small ganglia intercalaria which, as Hyrt1 was the first to note,
occasionally occur on the posterior roots of the human cord, between the main root-ganglia and the cord
