lateral primordia. But there is no definite evidence of such primordia at all (fig. 6 :
5-7). The edge of the tangentially extended collar, thicker at the ends than at the
sides, where it is under pressure, becomes lobed as it extends into the free space in
the axil of the subtending bract ; and, lateral growth being exaggerated, it tends to
further develop in this direction ; but subsequent lobing is wholly irregular, a third
lobe may even be as conspicuous (fig. 7 : 8), and in later stages the irregular lobes
converge over the cavity of the flower as a loose saccate envelope, through which the
inner integument tube will be ultimately projected. The margins of this growth, and
the so-called lateral lobes, have at no period the characteristic clean wave-outline or
smooth curve of an appendage-primordium; and to interpret such irregular protuberances
as indicative of leaf-members is going beyond the range of structural morphology.
Evidence in favour of the constitution of this “ perianth ” from a whorl of a decussate
series is then weakened by the facts of development. It is interesting to note that a
similar free outgrowth of lateral lobes from the integument of Pinus into space left
free on the flanks of an ovule packed in the axil of a cone-scale has been in the past
similarly interpreted as indicative of two leaf-units (StRASBURGER). So far, then, there
is no direct evidence whatever that the outer envelope may be regarded as based on two
leaf-members. It is a simple tubular investment with an irregular edge, to which the
term “ perianth ” may remain applied as an innocuous convention, and the use of the
term “ integument” may be avoided since it arises first in development.

Similar phenomena are characteristic to a less marked degree of the inney envelope,
which arises later, but is less extended laterally. At first a uniform collar (fig. 6:
8, 4, 5), its margin also grows irregularly into wavy folds (fig. 7: 8, 9, 10); with
sometimes a similar suggestion of two lateral lobes (fig. 7: 8), or at others several