somes which remain within the egg proceed to form a group of four or five small vesicles which later
unite to form the egg nucleus. The latter is slightly excentric in position, being nearer the side from
which the polar bodies were extruded. The egg centrosome and its surrounding archoplasm disappear
completely.

Shaking and Maturation—Morcan (70, pp. 149, 150) noted that maturation might be induced by
shaking after echinoderm eggs are shredded into sea-water. W1ILsON and MATHEWS (93, p. 333)
confirm this result for 4. forbesi, noting an instance in which only 12 per cent. of the eggs matured when
unshaken, whereas over 50 per cent. were induced to undergo the changes by a little agitation, and, “had
the agitation been more violent or more prolonged, similar experiments on other eggs proved that the
proportion would have been increased.” In my Millport experiments, the ova when taken from healthy
specimens near the period of ripeness matured spontaneously without further shaking than that involved
in the method employed (p. 224). Other facts show, however, that shaking does increase the kinetic
activity of the starfish egg ; for instance MATHEWS was able by its means to increase the number of ova
which underwent spontaneous or parthenogenetic development (LOEB, 50, p. 144).

Fertilisation.—Normally, only a single spermatozoon enters the egg, and it may do
so at any point on the circumference. It proceeds towards the centre of the egg,
and then towards the egg nucleus, with which it becomes united. An amphiaster
appears in connection with the sperm nucleus shortly after the latter has entered the
egg, and one pole of the amphiaster precedes, while the other follows the nucleus in
question during its further course through the egg (93, p. 336). The membrane of
fertilisation appears immediately after the entrance of the head of the sperm cell.
Its formation begins at the place of entrance of the sperm cell, the surface of the egg
often showing slight changes of shape here, as if amceboid movement were going on.