is not so extremely rapid and the individual never goes through more than one or two
fields of a 1/6 lens before changing its direction considerably. Spiromonas displaces
itself more rapidly than any other of these flagellates, with the possible exception of
the darting uniflagellate. It is untiring ; I have never seen it at rest except during
division. Except possibly in the very youngest stages, the course of progression is a
a” spiral, the body turning round on its long axis during the forward movement, now in
S one sense, now in the other. The rotating movement is produced by the action of the
© shorter flagellum, working laterally, helped by the spiral twist of the body in the
= spiral forms. The propulsion is caused chiefly by the more posteriorly directed
oo flagellum.
3 Phyllomitus.—The interesting peculiarity of this form is that the long and short
flagellum, doubtless representing an anterior and a posterior one, are partly joined
> _ together by a band, just as was shown by SrerN in his original figures, a fact which
‘3 hitherto has never been confirmed. In consequence of this attachment, both flagella
— are always directed backwards in life, for the long one, which is much longer than the
& body, represents a trailing flagellum. The distal portion of the short flagellum is
% free from the band. It must be understood that neither the band nor the flagella are
= attached to the body; the former is not comparable to the undulating membrane, for
§ instance, of a trypanosome. In the proximal region, where the band is, the joined
4 flagella pass across a conspicuous depression or groove in the side of the body,
3 towards the anterior end, which represents a peristome. The body shows a constant
fine trembling or flickering, produced by the vibration of the short flagellum, modified
5 by the band, which is very characteristic. This movement probably causes the band
© to function somewhat in the manner of the undulatory membrane of certain ciliates,
aiding in wafting food-particles into the mouth-area, at the base of the depression.