proposition (1916, p. 60), “* That the world has been peopled by successive races (or .
lineages), each of which has gone through a period of rise (elaboration) and fall
(regression),” is exactly borne out as far as elaboration (anagenesis) is concerned, but
on the whole (though a few cases of catagenesis of individual characters have been
mentioned above) extinction inevitably followed excessive elaboration and we have no
evidence of regression (catagenesis) in the secretion of calcium carbonate, or in the
reduction of the skeleton through resorption. Nor is it easy to place a hypothetical
acme at a certain point in skeletal elaboration, and say, ‘“ After this, further elaboration
was detrimental to the organism.” The process was one continuous piling up of skeletal
matter, and all the lineages, since they could not circumvent this, were doomed.

SPENcER’s second proposition is ‘‘ that the early stages of a lineage may be
recognised by the fact that the forms are small, comparatively rare and unspecialised.
The more mature stages are characterised by large, more specialised forms, which
occur in comparative abundance. In the old age of the lineage there are marked loss
5 of ornament and other specialised characters, and the forms are obviously tending to
disappear.”. This, again, is seen to be true of the Cretaceous Cheilostome Polyzoa as
a whole, though in some details it is necessary to modify the statement. With regard
to size generally speaking, this tends to increase at first in any lineage; but it is
impossible to predict whether, ultimately, a given stock may become smaller, as in the
lineage Pelmatopora brydonet (figs. 53, 54), P. danktonensis, P. saltdeanensis (figs.
65, 66), P. ranunculoides (figs. 69, 70); or to continue into a race of giants like
Batrachopora convexa, B. crassa (fig. 83), B. ornata. Again, it is difficult to admit,
in the final stages, a loss of ornament. Perhaps it is permissible to differentiate
“ornament” from ‘“ elaboration.” When a surplus of skeletal matter is laid down