nosing its way among the hosts of its confréres, and other Protozoa, which densely
populate the field of the microscope. The protoplasm exhibits no demarcation into
ectosare and endosare, and neither have I been able to detect any trace of a con-
tractile vacuole, Over the anterior one-fourth to one-fifth of the body the protoplasm
is clear and contains no ingested particles or granular inclusions (c.z. in fig. 56).
In many specimens this clear zone exhibits faint longitudinal strice, disposed at a
distance of about 0°002 mm. apart. They are superficial in position and are
probably cuticular in origin. As a general rule, the nucleus is situated at the
junction of the clear and granular areas, but in some cases it is entirely enclosed
within the latter. In the living organism it averages 0°019 mm. in diameter, and
in its most usual condition, contains a dense skein of chromatin (fig. 56), During
certain phases of life the chromatin fuses up into a dense compact amorphous mass
devoid of any nuclear membrane. But, notwithstanding the fact that I have
examined some hundreds of specimens, stained by various reagents, I have never
observed the poly-energid nucleus, distributed into secondary nuclei scattered through
the cytoplasm, as described and figured by Harrmann (Plate 29, fig. 38) for
T. hertwigi. In one or two specimens I have observed the nuclear membrane wanting
over a portion of the circumference with a slight extrusion of the contained chromatin
—a condition which closely resembles HarrmMann’s fig. 32. In a few specimens I have
also noted the protoplasm of the anterior portion of the clear zone of the organism
somewhat contracted, leaving a hyaline outer layer surrounding a denser inner mass,
suggesting a differentiation into ectosare and endosare (cp. Harrmann’s Plate 28,
fig. 15). This appearance is so rare that it cannot be regarded as characteristic of
this species and, for this reason, I believe it to be merely an artifact, due to the
physical action of reagents. There is no trace of a micronucleus or cytostome, and I