Morpho cypris, the shape of whose scales is convex, may be made to vary from dull
purple to electric blue. The well-known appearance like shot silk, shown by Apatura
iris, LINN., which causes it to seem bright violet in one direction, but black in the
opposite, is said to be due toa similar reason. The point of every scale is curved
upwards (fig. 1, E, p. 7) like the prow of a gondola, so that only by looking at it
from the root should the upper iridescent surface be seen. From the opposite direction
the observer should only perceite the brown underside of the upturned tip. This
suggestion was made by WALTER,* and it seems to account very well for the appearance
of A. iris and insects like the purple form of Huplaa deione, Westw. But there is
the opposite effect, which must be taken into consideration, shown for instance by the
wings of the South American insect Caligo memnon, Feprr. The changes of colour
exhibited by this insect are similar to those in #. dezone, except that the purple is only
seen when the wing is viewed from the apex to the base, in spite of the fact that the
tips of the scales seem to be curved slightly upward. It thus appears that the
same shape of scale can produce diametrically opposite effects. A careful scrutiny of
these two insects at all angles clearly shows that in one case (A. iris) “the black
position” is not much more than 45° to one side of the normal, whereas in C. memnon
it is at about the same inclination, but on exactly the opposite side of the normal,
positions in which the upturned tips of the scales could hardly have any effect. These
phenomena are very difficult to explain, because when seen in section there is no
asymmetry of the strizet or other part which might produce them.

The shape of the scale may affect the colour in other ways. For instance, since
seales are placed in parallel rows, if they are curved as in fig. 1, G@ and H, so that
they rise in one or in two crests, the light will be concentrated in a series of bright