formations have been described under the title of yolk-body (corps vitelline). She says
that it is the centrosome and the remains of the attraction sphere which constitute a
sort of yolk-body in the very young oocytes of the birds and reptiles. In the later eggs
of the reptiles there is present a vesicle from which are detached globules which spread
out and appear to furnish substances used in the formation of the yolk. Mlle. Loynz
thinks that the latter body (which appears to be the mitochondrial yolk-body) originates
from the nucleus, but she does not express a definite opinion on this point. It is clear,
therefore, that the term yolk-body of Balbiani has been used by many authors both for
the centrosphere with or without the remains of the Golgi apparatus which surrounds it,
and for the mitochondrial yolk-body, and I suggest that the latter terms be employed in
future for these distinct structures and that the former term be rejected.

The fact that a mitochondrial yolk-body, the origin and nature of which has not been
previously recognized, is present in the oocyte of the bird at a certain stage suggests that
a similar structure may be present in the oocytes of other vertebrates also, and may have
been described under the term of yolk-body of Balbiani and confused with the centro-
sphere. In the Ascidians Jan Hirscuter (15) has described yolk-nuclei (Dotterkerne)
in the oocytes. They develop from small mitochondrial bodies (Mitochondrienkérper)
which also produce the mitochondria (Mitochondrien). In the younger stages there are
several of these yolk-nuclei. They develop stalk-like processes which become attached
to the nuclear membrane and they gradually become hollow. In later stages there is
only one or rarely two yolk-nuclei, which lose contact with the nucleus, break down into
several pieces and finally disappear completely. They are thus transitory cytoplasmic
structures, like the mitochondrial yolk-body of the bird. In the latter I have never
observed more than one mitochondrial yolk-body in the oocyte, but it is applied, usually,