however, that the relative availability of the food material on the bast and on the wood
side of the cambium is a difficult matter to determine, and that it is perhaps better
to connect the food supply aspect with “ vigour of growth.” The latter, however, is
a lax term that its users have not troubled to define, and must be considered from as
many different aspects as possible. For example, vigour of growth may refer to growth
in thickness, when the thickness of the annual ring of the wood, or its area, becomes
the standard for comparison. On the other hand, it may refer to growth in the vertical
direction, when relative height is the basis. Again, both of these factors may be
entailed, when bulk will be the criterion.

On the question of a correlation between the formation of resin canals and the
rapidity of growth in thickness, a glance over fig. 4 (p. 88) of Picea Canadensis will
present some interesting facts. Nos. 5, 6 and 7 of this figure represent three sections
through one year’s growth in height. These sections in the third annual ring from the
outside have 55, 34 and 24 resin canals respectively, in the second none, and in the
outside ring 11, 15 and 14. Where area or thickness is considered, it is clear on looking
at the figure that the number of resin canals bears no relation to either. The outer
ring is about three times as thick as the innermost of the three, and its area many times
greater, and yet it has fewer, less than half the number, of resin canals. On the
other hand, it must not be assumed that a thin annual ring entails their presence, for
the second ring from the outside, which is much smaller than the outer one, though
larger than the third, has no resin canals. Furthermore, these same three annual
rings contradict the theory, if increase in bulk is considered as the criterion of vigour
of growth, for before they were laid down this portion of the trunk had completed its
growth in length, and so the areas of the rings are proportionate to the increase in