to the second series—namely, IVb and Va—while area 1 is bounded by one column (Id)
of the second series and one (IIa) of the first series. The difference between the two
series of ambulacral columns is slight, and would not alter the inter-ambulacral plates to
a very marked extent. This is clearly seen in the case of areas 2 and 3 (fig. 5). Here2a
is bounded by two columns (IIb and IIa) belonging to the second series, while area 3
is bounded by two columns (III and IVa) of the first series. The asymmetry must be
largely due to the arrangement of the inter-ambulacral plates themselves. The reversion.
of either area 3 or area 2 (Holaster) results in corresponding columns being next the
anterior ambulacrum, and these areas are therefore symmetrical about the antero-
posterior axis (fig. 5). Where either area 1 or area 4 is also reversed, the plates are
symmetrical about the same axis, and the slight difference between the two areas is
confined to the plates nearest the peristome (see Lovin, 1874, Plates XXII and XXIII).
This slight difference is possibly due to the fact already mentioned, namely, that one
area is bounded by two similar ambulacral columns and the other by two dissimilar ones.

Kiimauarpr (1911) found that the plating of areas 1 and 4 in fossils of Micraster
glyphus was not in agreement with Lovén’s analysis. He also found that the arrange-
ment varied somewhat from specimen to specimen. The arrangement represented in
fig. 67 (KiINGHARDT, 1911, Plate X) is very similar to that found in Micraster cor
anguinum (Lovin, 1874, Plate XXXIII, fig. 201). Assuming that plates 2a and 26
are separate in the latter species, they are almost identical (KtiNcHarDr does not indicate
any fusion of plates). In fig. 64 (KiINcHaRDT, 1911) plate 2a of area 4 has separated
plate 26 from the peristomial plate, and in both areas the plates in column a precede
those in column 6. In fig. 66, on the other hand, the plates in column Ia and 46,
respectively, are the first to be laid down.