that the septum represents the inner demibranch only. PrLseNEER has received the
support of GRopBEN, who regards the anterior part of the septum, at least, as of branchial
origin; but PLate agrees with Dax, sinée he found that the septum of C. obesa was
innervated by a nerve leaving the cerebral ganglion side by side with the visceral com-
missure and not by a branchial branch of the visceral nerve. PrLseNnER (1911) thinks
he is mistaken in this. Rimxrwoop does not agree with Dat that the muscularity of the
septum is evidence against its being of branchial origin, but finds it difficult to understand
how it could have developed such important attachments to the shell. I do not intend
to engage in this controversy, which is not likely to be definitely settled until the
embryology of the Septibranchs has been studied. There do, however, appear to be
substantial reasons for agreeing with PELSENEER rather than with Dati; the septum
certainly performs the same function in creating a current of water through the mantle
cavity as do the gills—a fact which Datu failed to realise—and it is difficult to see how
it could have evolved except as a direct development from the gills.

The validity of the separate order Septibranchia formed by PELsENEER has been
questioned by Dat, GroppeN and RmeEwoop, the last-named summarising the con-
flicting evidence and adding (p. 183), “‘ The reduction of the branchial organs is certainly
very remarkable, but there are greater differences between the three genera included in
the Septibranchia than between a form like Poromya malespine, on the one hand,
and Verticordia on the other. The conditions found in Poromya, Cetoconcha, and Cus-
pidaria may be considered to have evolved independently, although following the same
general trend. The relations between these forms and the Verticordiide being obvious,
it is proposed, in the absence of more accurate information as to general anatomy, to
place the three families, Poromyidew, Cetoconchide and Cuspidariide after the Verti-