We will first consider the Greenland vegetation as a whole, regarding it, for the present
at least, as a single unit. It includes Ferns and Gymnosperms which are Jurassic-
Wealden in type ; and with these survivals of the cosmopolitan Jurassic vegetation are
several Angiosperms, From the Kome series at Ikorfat Heer recorded his Populus
primeva, and a few other Dicotyledons were subsequently collected by Wurire and
Scuucuerr from the same series. At [korfat Mr. Horrrum and I found a fragment of
an inflorescence of Artocarpus (Plate 11, fig. 113). In the rocks of Upernivik Island
occur side by side Wealden Ferns and Gymnosperms and Platanus leaves hardly distin-
guishable from living species. The point I wish to make is that in the Cretaceous floras
of Greenland, Dicotyledons, which are surprisingly modern in the form of the leaves,
occur in association with Ferns and Gymnosperms, which in other parts of the world are
characteristic of floras distinguished by an absence of any recognisable examples of
modern Angiosperms. This fact lends support to the view that it was within the Arctic
circle that the evolution of deciduous Angiosperms progressed with greater rapidity
and energy than in more southern latitudes. A factor concerned in this development
may have been the alternation of continuous sunshine and a long period of rest.

The Greenland flora agrees most closely with Lower Cretaceous floras of Europe and
North America, and with floras of the Old and New Worlds which are usually regarded as
Cenomanian in age. A study of American and European floras shows that the distinction
drawn between the Lower and Upper Cretaceous is supported by Palzeobotanical evidence,
but in Greenland we find an admixture of plants which does not admit of so simple
a classification, ‘The land that is now Greenland is an exceedingly ancient portion of a
large continent* which served as a refuge for immigrants from other, less stable, areas
in more southern latitudes; and it is this more permanent attribute of Greenland—its