and in the pigeon about eight centimetres. I have no direct observations to show
how the sperms of these animals traverse the stretches under consideration. This may
be accomplished by their own locomotion. Sperms, even though undirected, would
finally attain the region of the isthmus through indiscriminate swimming, after which
the pro-ovarian current would carry them to the infundibulum. But there are other
features of oviducal activity that may be concerned in this transfer. It is well known
that in the hen, double eggs, so-called, may occur; thus eggs that have received a
shelly coating may be subsequently covered with albumen and again covered with a
second shell. It is also known that bits of barnyard refuse, such as feathers and the
like, may be contained occasionally inside the egg-shell of the hen. It has been experi-
mentally shown that if the lower end of the hen’s oviduct is ligated, eggs even with a
. shell fully formed may be discharged into the body-cavity of the bird (PzarL and
Curtis, 1914). Most authors have rightly assumed that these facts are not to be under-
stood except on the assumption that the oviduct of the hen can reverse its action and
can pass bodies upward as well as downward through its extent (PARKER, 1906 ; CURTIS,
1916). Itis, therefore, possible that at the time of copulation the relatively voluminous
spermatic discharge may be carried by reversed muscular action up the oviduct of the
hen to the not very distant isthmus; from this point onward the pro-ovarian ciliary
tract would accomplish the remainder of the transportation. In favour of this initial
muscular transfer I have, however, no direct observations beyond the fact that at the
conclusion of the ordinary pairing of the cock and the hen the cloaca of the latter can
be seen to undergo an excessive outward and inward movement suggestive of vigorous
muscular activity of the attached inner parts. Possibly such reversed oviducal move-
ments excited by copulation play an important part, if appropriately timed, in the
formation of double eggs ; for such eggs after having gone down the duct temporarily,