of India and elsewhere, one thing has become quite clear to me—that evolution is no
more than the adaptation of organisms to environment. ‘‘ Adaptation” signifies
correlation of an animal with its habitat, and therefore the study of animal organisation,
however detailed, cannot by itself lead to the proper understanding of this phenomenon.
Environment with its unlimited gradations plays an important part in the making and
re-making of the characters, and sometimes the resultant forms are of such totally
different types that genetic relations can hardly be discerned (vide infra, pp. 190, 237,
246). This fine adjustment of an organism to the external conditions of its existence
is the result of a series of gradual changes induced by the environment.

Since the publication of Darwin’s epoch-making work more attention seems to
have been paid to the study of animal morphology in its various aspects than to the
habitats of animals. In fact, it is only in recent years that the importance of animal
ecology as a subject for investigation has come into prominence. Several workers in
recent years have denied the existence of “ adaptations,” and the idea of utility in
evolution, which is a necessary complement of the process of adaptation, is being
considered of no importance. For example, one reads ** that characters have arisen at
variance with the innate tendencies of ‘ Heredity,’ and persisted without the aid of
* Natural Selection’? (KYLE, 1926, p. vii), or that evolution is predetermined and in
the unfolding of characters “ selection” plays no part (BrerG, 1926). Again, NoBLE
and JAECKLE (1928) remark as follows: “ Many other so-called highly adaptive struc-
tures in the Amphibia are as fortuitous in their occurrence as the large digital discs.
Adaptation in these cases is a chance relationship, not a progressive modification towards
particular habitat requirements.’ In fact, there is a strong trend of feeling at the
present day that evolution is not coherent, but is fortuitous, and such conclusions are