for the purpose of stemming a current. And if structures arose and developed on
account of their utility we should expect to find it (sic) in the freshwater forms, but it
(sie) is only found in marine forms. The nearest approach to the condition in fresh-
water is Gastromyzon of North Borneo, in which the whole ventral surface of the belly,
with the pectorals at the sides in front and the ventrals behind, form a large sucker,
and is used by the fish to adhere to stones in the mountain torrents. Another fresh-
water form, Pseudecheneis, lives in the rapids of the Himalayas and is provided with a
transversely plaited disc between the pectoral fins. But apart from these examples,
freshwater fishes manage to keep their places without sucking-discs.” Kyte has
used this as an argument to prove that structures do not arise and develop on account
of their utility. In the following summary I shall indicate that all the hill-stream fishes
that live on rocks in rushing waters are provided with adhesive discs, and the obvious
utility of these devices is clearly indicated by the fact that the degree of development
of an adhesive apparatus is directly correlated with the rate of flow of the current.
Indeed, it seems impossible that any animal should be able to keep its place in
tempestuous waters without an adequate means of fixation.

KYLE (p. 269) has observed that “In the rapid streams of the Himalayas the
Anabantoids use their movable spine to anchor themselves to stones.” So far as I
am aware the Anabantoids are either found in estuarine waters or in the sluggish waters
of the plains. The Anabantoids are labyrinthyform fishes provided with accessory
organs of respiration. These fishes come to the surface often for their supply of oxygen,
and if prevented from doing so they are “ drowned.’ It seems to me highly improbable
that the Anabantoids live in rapid waters anchored to stones with their spines, for
they must rise to the surface for air, and in this act they would be liable to be swept