deep gorges. In the swift currents are found highly evolved hill-stream fishes, such
as Balitora, Glyptothorax, Pseudecheneis and Garra, but at the edges and in pools the
sluggish-water forms of the plains occur. The fish-fauna of the plateau (Hora, 1923),
p. 582) comprises Ophicephalus gachua, Danio cwquipinnatus, and Barbus tor. The
Snake-headed O. gachua is a marsh-loving fish, and is known to wander from pool to
pool in the dry season. This species must have ascended the steep slopes by frequenting
the pools and puddles at the edge of the streams, and even on the plateau it is commonly
to be found in such situations. D. @quipinnatus is a small fish which lives in pot-holes
and deep pools and is capable of swimming against feeble currents; it has possibly
reached the plateau by ascending small rivulets into which a stream breaks up in a
dry season. JB. tor is a muscular fish which, like the salmon, can swim against swift
current. These three species are common in the plains, and there is no doubt that the
fish of the plateau are derived from those of the plains; in fact, B. tor ascends every
year for breeding purposes. As other instances the peculiar fish of the group Schizo-
thoracine, Cobitide, Sisoride, ete., of the Highlands of Central Asia may be cited.
There is no doubt that all these fish have been derived from those that frequent the
slopes of the Himalayas. They have been greatly modified secondarily, but they still
retain certain impressions of their former environment. Indeed, there is no indication
in this fauna which shows that it is indigenous and that it has not been derived from
the fauna of the low-lying lands of the neighbouring countries.

From Titryarp’s table of the different habitats of the dragon-fly larve (p. 398) it it
is possible to trace the gradual evolution of the hill-stream forms and ultimately of
those that are found in strong currents. Take, for example, the Gomphinz, which are
commonly found either buried in sand or in débris in rapid waters. A small number of