also been lost with the endoderm. Perhaps this is even probable, since the anterior third of a primitive
streak would be expected to give more neural tissue than the very small piece found in the anterior of the
graft mass.

398. The graft consisted of the primitive pit region of a 223-hour chick blastoderm, which was planted
with endoderm, dorso-ventrally, and probably anterio-anteriorly, between the layers on the right of its
own blastoderm. The wound from which the primitive pit was removed did not heal, but on the contrary
the hole enlarged, so that the whole embryo is split longitudinally along the centre of the neural folds.
The graft mass is hidden away below the mesoderm of the host and does not come sufficiently into contact
with the host ectoderm for an opportunity for induction to arise.

The most anterior part of the graft mass consists mainly of notochord and perhaps a little somitic
mesoderm. This is the only part of the graft which comes near the host ectoderm, which is in fact slightly
thickened, but it is very doubtful if any significance can be attached to this thickening. More posteriorly,
fig. 56, Plate 26, the notochord is accompanied by somites and the neural tube appears. The notochord
is absent in the most posterior part of the graft, which consists of somitic mesoderm and neural
tissue.

5968. The graft consisted of the anterior half of the primitive streak of the donor to 596a (see later,
p- 213). It was planted dorso-ventrally, without endoderm, transversely in the left anterior region of a host
of the same age. After 19 hours’ cultivation the host embryo had formed normally and a structure derived
from the graft could be seen to the left, running transversely. Sections show that the left end of this
structure consists of a neural plate derived from the host ectoderm and underlain probably by mesoderm
only (the endoderm is lacking, having adhered to the plasma when the specimen was removed from the
clot). A little to the right, fig. 57, Plate 26, a small neural tube appears presumably derived from the graft ;