this stage, the inner tissues cease to vacuolate and divide so that the shoot ceases to
increase in length. Longitudinal extension of the initials can now take place only
with difficulty, and tangential extension is impossible except so far as it is allowed
by the increasing girth of the stem. The easiest direction for increase in volume
would seem to be radial. It may be significant that after the procambial stage the
cells divide exclusively by tangential walls and never by radial walls. The tangential
walls of tracheids in a file, being produced time after time under almost identical con-
ditions, will have almost the same inclination. On the other hand, radial walls should
have constantly varying inclinations. The wall is extending in length, and it seems that
the effect of this extension on the inclination of the micelles will not be considerably
disturbed by the lateral expansion of the cell during differentiation. The case of
the radial walls is analogous to that described above (p. 143) and to which the formula
L = K cot 0 applies if we make one assumption, an assumption which is, in fact, forced
upon us. Ifthe radial expansion of a cambial initial after each longitudinal division
causes any flattening of that part of the spiral on it, we should expect the inclination of
the micelles in the radial walls of the tracheids cut off to be almost 90° within a very
short time. Actually no such increase in inclination was observed, the part of the
spiral on radial walls becoming steeper with time in all cases. We are com-
pelled provisionally to assume that this radial extension during an active growing
period has no effect on the inclination ; as shown in the last section, this extension
during a growing period does not necessarily contradict the general principles laid
down in this paper. Making this assumption we have, in effect, cells which are
elongating at constant girth since change in girth causes no change in inclination,
and we should expect the formula L = K cot @ to apply more or less accurately.
This applies only to radial walls. Tangential walls are constantly being renewed