other spiracles have been clearly demonstrated by him in the larva of Mycetophila
cingulum. Ket.1n’s contribution as to the primitive position of spiracles in insects
has not gained the importance it deserves. According to LEHMANN (1926, p. 367), in
the embryo of Carausius morosus Br. the spiracular rudiments are formed on the
lateral sides of the anterior end of the segment. The different positions gained by
spiracles are due to their migration and to the important fact that in adult insects
there is a secondary segmentation (vide SNopcRass, 1927, p. 7), and not only the
primitive anterior intersegmental membrane but also a posterior part of the pre-
ceding segment called the precosta has become fused with the anterior margin of the
following segment. As a result of this, the spiracles have come to lie in the anterior
region of the segment and have thus lost their primitive intersegmental position.
The location of the spiracles on the anterior margin of the pleural region of their
segment is a well-known fact (vide WEBER, 1933, p. 429).

During moulting of the flea larva (fig. 53), I have observed that the atrial pits of
the next stage (at.JI/.) are formed a little behind those of the preceding stage (at.J/.)
in all the spiracles except the first pair of spiracles. The proliferating cells of all
the spiracles except the first pair are confined to the posterior sides of the atria while
in the first pair of spiracles they are found all round the atria. The relative positions
of the first pair of spiracles of the three stages of the flea larva clearly show a tendency
towards their anterior migration, as in the first-stage larva they are very close to the
posterior margin of the prothorax, while in the third-stage larva they are much in
front of its posterior margin. These observations of mine on the anterior migration
of the mesothoracic spiracles and the posterior migration of all the other spiracles
lend support to Kerry’s conclusions based on the study of larvae of the Myceto-