carmine suspension under apparently constant conditions, the anterior extension of
the organ will be at one time full of carmine and at another time empty. This could
be explained on the above lines by ascribing it to differences in the amount of carmine
being taken in through the pharynx and oesophagus.

The action of the lateral ciliated tract is confined to the left side of the gut, and
particles entering down the right side of the oesophagus will be more remote from its
influence. It has been seen that there is a backward ciliary current on the right side
(fig. 4, v.) which will naturally help to drive them backward, but the complication
here is the existence of a strong forward current along the roof of the diverticulum
(dc.). Owing to the fact that the diverticulum passes to the right of the oesophagus
and pharynx, particles on the right side of the oesophagus will be much more influenced
by it than will those on the left side. It is a fact that in transverse sections of animals
which have been placed in a carmine suspension for some hours, carmine particles
can be seen in the lumen of the diverticulum, and it must be the forward current along
the roof of the diverticulum which is mainly responsible for this. The existence of this
forward current is perhaps the most puzzling feature of the alimentary canal. It would
be natural to suppose that its function was to convey material into the diverticulum in
order that digestion and absorption could take place there, but against this must be
set the existence of the lateral ciliated tract, which collects much material which would
otherwise pass forwards into the diverticulum, the complete absence from the mid-gut
of any forward current leading to the diverticulum, the elaborate mechanism for
driving secretions out of the diverticulum and mixing them with the food cord, and
the strong backward currents of the dorsal ciliated tract, ilio-colon ring and right wall
of the hind-gut (see below). The point is of some interest, as it determines whether