by-product of the digestive processes rather than a primary feature of it. It may be
suggested that the primary function of the forward current is to promote a circulation
of material in it and so assist in the collection of the secretions in the backward ventral
current. Apart from this one factor, however, it will be appreciated that the ciliation
in this region will tend to drive all material backwards towards the hinder half of the
mid-gut where it will become added to the rotating cord. The adhesion of this
material to the cord is probably more direct in practice than it might seem to be from
the above account. All the contents of the gut are very sticky, and the least contact
will cause adhesion. It may be supposed that the actual condition in the living animal
comprises not so much a central main cord and a steady stream of material along the
rest of the wall, as a main cord which collects all the other material through the medium
of many irregular threads from the other parts of the wall, this collection representing,
in fact, another function of the rotation. This can be confirmed by observation: If an
animal is opened in the usual way, five or six threads will probably be seen extending
from various parts of the lateral ciliated tract to the central cord, and if they are
removed with a needle, they will rapidly reform.

It has been seen that the wall of the mid-gut is predominantly secretory. There is
no difficulty in visualizing the addition of these secretions to the food. mass, either
after passing backwards from the more anterior regions, or, in the case of the secretions
produced in the hinder half of the mid-gut, by direct adhesion. (The sloughing off
of the lining of the epithelium has been described above in a very small specimen,
and in this way the secretions will be carried on to the cord.) Animals are sometimes
seen in which the main bulk of the food cord is concentrated in the ilio-colon ring
and only a very slender cord extends forwards into the mid-gut; under such conditions