vessels, fibre length and the type of parenchyma, but the conclusions that are drawn
can only be applied within this family. Probably some of the developmental series will
be found to apply only to single families or groups of families, and to have no general
application, while others apply to all woods, irrespective of their family. The former
may imply relationship, the latter must be regarded as “stage features’? (CHALK 1935),
representing stages of development passed through by members of totally unrelated
groups. The great difficulty in this part of the work has been that the anatomist must
use the genera, as established by the taxonomists, to find out what are reliable generic
characters, while, as will be shown in § XII, the taxonomists are not unanimous as to
the constitution of the different genera.

In handling the material assembled for this investigation two alternative methods of
presenting the facts were considered. The first, that of treating each genus separately
and then reviewing the anatomical characteristics of the family as a whole, was dis-
carded; it would involve much repetition, because the genera are very much alike in
several of the features examined. The second method, which is the one adopted, is to
consider each anatomical feature separately, establishing so far as possible the position
of each genus in regard to that feature, and finally to give an abbreviated description
of the genera, picking out the particular features by which each can be distinguished
from the rest. The position of the genera is discussed and the proposed changes
explained and justified in § XII. By this means the material relating to the systematic
position of the genera can be placed together and can be read without the necessity of
disinterring it from a mass of anatomical detail. Similarly, each separate anatomical
feature has as far as possible been treated comprehensively in the appropriate section,
so that the facts relating to any particular tissue can be found together.