arch from the mandibular to the fourth branchial. The backward extension of the
palato-quadrate and Meckel’s cartilages, necessary for the formation of the mouth and
the attachment of a powerful jaw musculature, brought the hinder end of these
elements over the lateral surface of the hyoidean arch and enabled the mandibular
operculum to extend backward for a great distance, until in fact its ventral part came
to rest on the front margin of the lower part of the shoulder girdle. This operculum,
however, left uncovered a large triangular area above its dorsal margin. It is necessary
for the functioning of the gill apparatus that the gill slits so left exposed should be
provided with an opercular apparatus. This is done by the retention as functional
structures of the dorsal parts of the small opercula (the homologues of the flaps in
Scyllium, which become the frills of Clamydoselache) on the hyoidean and branchial
arches. Each of these structures is provided with a bony skeleton, which ceases
abruptly where it is overlapped by the main mandibular operculum. In fact Climatius
reticulatus gives us for the first time a stage in the evolution of an operculate fish in
which a relic of the Elasmobranch condition of the gill slits is still preserved.

The lateral-line of the body is represented by a groove which runs between two
opposed rows of scales. This line continues along the free margin of the scaled area
above the gill chamber and extends forward over the gill region to the patch of
enlarged bones above and behind the eye. Above the upper ends of the second and
third branchial arches short side branches of the lateral-line system are shown in
B.M.N.H. 38596 to arise from the main “canal”. The remainder of the lateral-line
system is very incompletely shown, but it is evident that the arrangement agrees with
that perfectly shown in Climatius uncinatus and Euthacanthus macnicoli. The greater part
of the lateral-line system seems to have lain quite superficially above the exoskeleton,