forward as a slender triangular area to the region of the shoulder girdle. The body
seems to have been essentially completely scaled behind a point about one-third of the
distance from the dorsal fin to the pectoral fins. In this fish a considerable area of the
base of the web of the anal fin and a small part of that of the dorsal fin are scale covered,
but the pelvic and pectoral fins are scaleless. In B.M.N.H. 40049, the anterior third
of a large fish with a lower jaw length of 6-6 cm. and a total length to the dorsal fin
of presumably about 450 mm., the scales continue uninterruptedly over the dorsal
surface and extend forward to the ear. A scanty ventral strip of scales can be traced
to the hinder end of the lower jaw, but the triangular area behind the shoulder girdle
still remains free from scales. The size of the scales is on the whole similar over the
whole flank of a fish, but they decrease a little toward the dorsal and ventral surfaces.
The scales on the fin webs are often extremely small. This mode of development of the
squamation gives the explanation of the remarkable fact that the scales of large speci-
mens of Acanthodes may be no larger than those of small individuals. The scales of the
specimens last considered are of the same size within the necessarily wide limits of
measurement. Those of the Edinburgh specimen, about 230 mm. in length, are about
twice as wide as those of the series above described.

The caudal fin is very seldom well preserved ; that of a small specimen belonging to
Berlin is illustrated in fig. 6, Plate 13. In this the interesting features are the extension
of the main lateral line to a termination just in front of the fork of the tail and the
absence of any upturning of its posterior end; the presence of a narrow mid-dorsal
strip of scales with a free posterior end identical with a similar arrangement in
Euthacanthus and Mesacanthus; and the occurrence of a sharply differentiated strip of
scaling parallel to the dorsal margin of the upper lobe of the fin, again a parallel to