Surprisingly, when the inhibition of oviposition was extended beyond the first four
days of life, restraint again became evident so that the females which had been kept
ten days before being given hosts showed greater restraint that the younger females.
Although the number of eggs laid in the unparasitized controls remained fairly uniform
throughout (see fig. 9), the oviposition in the parasitized hosts is much more erratic
and suggests that the parasitized hosts exert a decreasing attraction on the females as
the latter age. It is possible, however, that delaying facilities for oviposition for the
first 10 days of a female’s life—a period approximately one-quarter that of the normal
life of a female at 25° C. and 70% Rr.u.—results in a physiological upset of the normal
ovariole development. Flanders (1935) has shown that with the pteromalids, Dibrachoides,
Peridesmia, Spintherus and Eutelus, if environmental conditions prevent oviposition the
ovarian follicles and the eggs apparently disintegrate and are absorbed, though this
may be due to the fact that at the same time the female parasites are forced to
change from a mixed diet of host fluids and carbohydrates to a purely carbohydrate
diet. This period of “‘phasic castration” may last nine months, and ends with the
appearance in the field of the susceptible stage of the host.

The possibility that this factor of reabsorption of the eggs might be involved in the
above behaviour was investigated by the method outlined below. The fact that appreci-
able numbers of eggs were laid by the older females indicated that the reabsorption,
if any, was only partial, and this could, therefore, be most conveniently gauged by
supplying females, which had been kept for various time periods without hosts, with
large numbers of unparasitized gipsy moth eggs. Partial reabsorption of the mature
eggs of the ovaries should affect the amount of parasitism in these higher host densities.
By varying the host densities it was possible to extend the scope of the experiment to