workers has contributed. Certain facts about all these types are by now sufficiently
clear, in a descriptive if not in a causal sense. In each case, however, the sum of
published descriptions is deficient, either in details of spiral structure, or in knowledge
of chromosome lengths at crucial stages such as leptotene, to name only two of the
most important omissions. Yet the discovery of spiral structure alone, or rather its
rediscovery* in recent years, is probably one of the most far-reaching facts with which
modern cytology has to deal. The realization that the apparent shape of the chromo-
some is merely the external form of a spiral coil must obviously entail very considerable
reorientation of old ideas. The rewriting of descriptive cytology in conformity with
this new knowledge is, however, impossible unless and until the facts regarding it are
fully known. The extreme confusion which now reigns in the literature on several
aspects of spiral structure would therefore seem to be primarily the expression of the
difficulty of obtaining these facts. A contributory cause is unfortunately also the desire
to reach a rapid theoretical explanation of exceedingly complex phenomena, a weak-
ness to which cytologists have always been particularly prone.

With these difficulties in mind a deliberate choice of method has been carried out.
In the first place, the initial collection of data, which has necessitated work over a
number of years, has as far as possible been carried out for its own sake with no ulterior
motive of a theoretical kind to influence the choice of material. Throughout the work
all observations have been recorded in the most objective possible way, namely, by
photography. Selection of specimens to be photographed has been made on the sole
criterion of clarity, and in no case have observations depended on details of fixation
so minute that their existence could be open to question. With the knowledge that
application of statistical methods is impossible in material of this kind it has been felt