The genus Bicosoeca (Bikos a vase, and oixéw to inhabit) was created by James-
Clark (1868) to contain two species, with one of which we are concerned. B. lacustris
is a fresh-water form, occurring in quiet streams and lakes, attached to filamentous
algae. The name Bicosoeca was changed to Bikoeca by Stein (1878), and the corrected
form, Bicoeca, will be used throughout this paper, even where earlier forms were used
by the authors whose views are cited. The family Bikoecida was made by Stein (1878)
to include this genus and Poteriodendron, a somewhat similar but colonial form, probably
identical with Stylobryon Fromentel (1874). James-Clark describes with great con-
viction both the structure of Bicoeca lacustris and the changes occurring during
‘development’. But, admirable as are James-Clark’s descriptions and figures, there
are reasons for supposing that certain features were misinterpreted, and that the
forms which he observed do not, as he implies, represent stages in a developmental
sequence, but are, in fact, separate species. ;

B. lacustris (see figure 1) is said (in his account) to have a yellow tinge; the animal
occupies the anterior half of the calyx and projects a little beyond the edge. The
shape is rather elliptical than elongate-oval, varying between the two conditions, and
is the latter in the largest individuals. The body is rounded posteriorly and broadest in
the middle, tapers to a truncate front, and ends on one side in a laterally projecting
flagellum and on the opposite side in a long, incurved lip. A furrow (less deep than
in B. gracilipes, the marine form described by James-Clark) extends from the flagellum
base to the contractile ligament. James-Clark interpreted this furrow as a greatly
prolonged ostial notch, and the retractor as a trailing lash originating at the greatest
possible distance from the other flagellum. The lip is twice as long as wide and has
an incurved, digitate form. The flagellum arises at an angle of 40-45° to the axis of