a condition of tension in thé distal region of the medulla, ie. at the junction of the young
pith cells and the incipient vascular tissue below the apical meristem. The tendency will
thus be for a progressive increase in the dimensions of the pith during the individual
development. Elsewhere it has been shown to what extent the morphology of the pterido-
phyte stele, and the cross-sectional pattern of the shoot as a whole, is influenced by
medullation (Wardlaw 19454). Tensile stress is, of course, only one factor among many
which may be causally related to the parenchymatous development of incipient vascular
tissue. ;
In so far as it is not yet possible to give any adequate account of the development of
a solenostele, the elucidation of the several examples of polycycly which have been recorded
must be regarded as still more remote. Indeed, their chief interest at the moment lies
(i) in the evidence they afford of the potentiality for structural development of the growing
region, and (ii) in the fact that polycycly is not exclusively controlled by genetical factors.
In Todea barbara the writer (Wardlaw 1946) has recorded the presence of a vascular strand
in the pith ofa shoot which had received experimental treatment. Examples of polycycly are
normally seen in the Matoniaceae, Cyatheaceae, Marattiaceae, Dicksoniaceae and Pterideae
but not in Dryopteris. As Bower (1923, p.-151) remarks: “The occurrence is so sporadic that
it can only have been initiated along a plurality of evolutionary lines.’ Tansley (1907)
regards polycycly as ‘a response to a need for an increased vascular supply’. Bower supports
this view and states: ‘The need for ready conduction along the axis, as well as to and from
the enlarged pith, appears a sufficient explanation of the occurrence of polycycly.’ The
writer (Wardlaw 19444, b) has pointed out, however, that the interpretation of - these
structural developments in terms of supposed adult functional activities instead of in terms
of the process of growth is liable to prove misleading. From the phyletic point of view
‘these ferns which in the adult state are structurally nearest to the protostele are held to