in the more slowly growing tissue (Wardlaw 1944, 19452). The present studies have yielded
evidence of the importance of this mechanical factor in morphogenesis. If the configuration
of the incipient vascular tissue is, at least in part, determined by the pressure exerted on
it by the rapidly growing medullary and cortical parenchyma, then it might be anticipated
that, in the lower part of an isolated terminal region of square outline, the vascular tissue
would also have a square outline; and so on for terminal regions of triangular outline, etc.
This has been frequently demonstrated in these studies. But in such specimens, the ‘cortical’
parenchyma is derived from peripheral elements of the incipient vascular tissue exposed to
the air by the downward incisions. A fundamental question therefore relates to the
differentiation of this parenchyma.

In attempting to interpret the varied configuration of fern steles in terms of causal factors
the first essential is to acquire an adequate knowledge of the facts of development in the
growing region. Very little, indeed, is known of the factors which are causally related to
the initial differentiation of vascular tissue, the absence of such knowledge being a serious
obstacle to further progress. Lang (1915) suggested that among these factors may be
included (i) functional stimuli, (ii) the inductive influence of the older differentiated parts
on the developing region, or (iii) formative stimuli of unknown nature proceeding from the
developing region. The relation of functional stimuli to morphogenetic processes is a prob-
lem of very great difficulty: it may be that no such direct relationship does, in fact, exist.
In the normal development the second factor suggested by Lang—the inductive influence
of older, preformed parts—may well be of considerable importance. This view, which has
had many adherents, may now be considered in the light of the data given here. In the
experimental materials the vascular tissue leading to the apical meristem from below is
completely severed. Nevertheless, the thin layer of incipient vascular tissue which lies