
+ brittle sheaths, characteristic of Leptothrix ochracea are produced. These appear to be
& composed of ferric compounds, but addition of ferrous salts did in the beginning afford the
3B desired result. This is not surprising. L. ochracea is described as being almost devoid of
E living cells and producing no swarmers, suggesting that deposits conforming to the diagnosis
represent the final phase in the development of the organism rather than a thriving growth.
&  Asoil-water culture, with ferrous ammonium citrate from an experimental series started
© six months previously, gave a clue to the solution of the problem. In media similar to those
Which produce the Cladothrix form, but containing a relatively large amount of ferrous salts,
S the threads deposit more and more ferric hydroxide until they eventually assume the
-€ condition known as Leptothrix ochracea. It is possible that this change is not entirely
-4 biological but partly due to mere physico-chemical causes, as claimed by Molisch (1910,
3 p. 49) and Cholodny (1926, p. 45). This view is supported by the fact that the Leptothrix
5 form contains only a few living cells, which could scarcely be responsible for the large amount
8 of the deposits.
‘8 The form known as L. ochracea can be made to arise from all the various strains of
© Sphaerotilus natans. Decoctions of hay and dilute solutions of beef extract, both with 0-01
# to 0-02 °%, ferrous ammonium citrate, are suitable for this purpose. Even more bulky sheaths
= are obtained in soil-water cultures with grains of cereals and addition of iron. The growths
5 produced after several months in undisturbed cultures kept cool are not distinguishable
E from natural deposits. The sheaths differ from those of S. discophorus in being narrower and
3 smoother and not brown, this colour being only produced by admixture of manganese
& which is not found in the sheaths of S. natans. The undisturbed growth iscomposed ofstraight
Z threads tapering very slightly. They may sometimes be twisted in a screw-like manner with
© a remarkable regularity. The thick, brittle, and highly refractive sheaths, appearing like |