the eggs developing within the ovarioles will contain a relatively higher proportion of
energy-producing sugars and therefore may possibly start development with a comparatively
high metabolic rate. When further nutritional elements in the form of raisin are added to
the diet of the female she lives longer and produces more eggs, obviously impossible on
a purely sugar diet owing to the amount of protein, etc., necessary for the formation of these
large anhydropic eggs. With this difference in the diet it is probable that the eggs have
a decreased proportion of sugar, and that development commences at a comparatively
lower rate, both of physiological activity and metabolism. This same difference is brought
about in the early stages of development of Spalangia eggs by the formation of the ova
within the ovarioles at different temperatures. Subsequent to laying all these eggs are
subject to the same environmental conditions. However, those eggs which have thus
started development with an increased metabolic rate proceed with growth at a somewhat
higher rate, a fact shown by the shorter developmental time of those individuals belonging
to this category that emerge without passing through a stage of diapause. Correlated with
this, fewer of this latter type of egg produce individuals going into diapause.

To envisage this effect clearly we must consider the development of the insect from the
formation of the egg to the full-grown larval stage (where diapause may occur in these two
species) and even beyond. From the initiation of cleavage, growth consists in general of
the assimilation of nutritive material, the incorporation of this into the body, and the
organization of the whole organism along certain well-defined lines of morphological and
physiological development. This is accomplished by means of a complex series of numerous
interconnected physico-chemical reactions all dependent, from the nature of things, on the
results of preceding reactions and upon the concentrations of the various individual re-
actants in each system. Now before any individual physiological process can occur