wing-surface is the X, Y plane; a transverse section of the wing is a section in the Y, Z plane;
a longitudinal section is a section in the X, Z plane. The figure also records the fact that the
scales are bristle-like on the anterior and posterior margins, paddle-shaped on the lateral
margin and typically flattened on the body of the wing. The regions A and B are viewed
along the Z axis, normal to the wing-surface. The stippled area to the right of the rudiments
in B is the marginal zone of the pupal wing.

3. BIREFRINGENCE OF DEVELOPING WING SCALES IN EPHESTIA SERICARIUM (SCOTT)

At about 72 hr. after pupation under the conditions described, the lateral marginal scale
rudiments on anterior wings of LE. sericarium are seen to be positively birefringent with
respect to the long axis of the rudiment (the slow vibration direction is parallel to the long
axis) when formalin-fixed wings are examined in water. The rudiment is, in fact, bire-
fringent as soon as it can be recognized, that is, at a length of 6 to 74. Figure 4, plate 1,
shows lateral marginal scales, about 74 long, from a pupa not more than 84 hr. old,
photographed in the diagonal position between crossed nicols with a jgth wave-length
mica plate in the addition position. In figure 5, plate 1, the stage has been rotated through
90° and compensation is complete; the rudiments are invisible under these conditions. The
effect observed corresponds to a path difference of 1 to 54. Slightly older rudiments are
shown, in addition and in subtraction, in figures 6 and 7, plate 1. By 119 hr. three sizes
of lateral marginal rudiments can be seen: markedly club-shaped at c, 34”, more nearly
cylindrical at ¢.10” and cylindrical at c.3y (figures 8 and 9, plate 1). In these photo-
graphs the microscope is focused on the upper surface of the scale; at a slightly deeper
focus it is evident that it is the surface membrane which is birefringent, not the cell con-
tents; the membrane is bright while the contents remain dark. This birefringence is to be