case of statistical variates conforming to the normal law one would expect the variance to
decrease inversely as the size (in this case, the area) of the sampling units or grids. It was
found, however, that the actual decrease was much smaller, so that the gain in precision
by increasing the size of individual grids was appreciably less than one would ordinarily
expect on the normal theory. This may be ascribed to the fact that the proportion of land
4, sown with a particular crop (or the yield of a crop) in plots in the same neighbourhood are
not statistically independent but are correlated. The absence or presence of such correlation
determines whether the variance would follow the normal law or would decrease more
slowly with increasing size of grids. In fact, this furnishes a convenient basis for the classi-
fication of fields into two distinct types, namely, (a) random type (in which the variance
function is normal) and (4) non-random type (in which the variance decreases more slowly).
The theoretical formulation is given in Part II; the point to be emphasized is that this is
based not on speculative grounds but on experimental evidence and on the fact that such
classifications lead to economy in the planning of sample surveys.

31. Cost of operations. From the very beginning both field and statistical workers were
asked to keep daily records of the time spent on different types of work. This furnished the
material for the cost function which was studied in the first instance in labour units, that is,
in terms of man-hours or hours of work per investigator or computer which were later
converted into money values. In doing this the total cost of course was taken into con-
sideration; for example, the cost of one investigator-hour included not only the pay of the
field investigator but also the pay of the inspecting and supervising staff, travelling and all
contingent expenses. After much experimentation (some account of which is given in ยง 4
of Part III), it was found that the cost of field operations could be split up into three chief
components. First of all there was the time required for going from one sampling unit to