
At 27째 C the range of optimum humidity for larval development of the three species
(tables 23, 24) appears to be 80 to 94:8%. In many cases the combined larval and pupal
life differed statistically within these humidities; the differences were slight, and possibly
due to the light of a pilot lamp located inside the incubator. The intermittent light might
have influenced the developmental rate to a certain extent (see Edney 1945, p. 403). There
was no statistical difference in the active larval life of X. cheopis at 80, 90 and 94:8% R.H.
A significant prolongation of the combined larval and pupal life of its male at 94-8%
was believed to be due toa mechanical difficulty. At 27째 C and 90 % r.u. the combined larval
and pupal life of X. brasiliensis was significantly longer than that of both the sexes of
X. cheopis and that of the female of X. astia. The combined larval and pupal life of the
male of X. astia, however, did not differ statistically from that of X. brasiliensis; though it
was significantly longer than that of X. cheopis. The fact that at 29째 C and 90% r.u. the
combined larval and pupal life of X. brasiliensis was statistically longer than that of the other
two species, indicates that the developmental rate in this species was intrinsically the
slowest, as this temperature is optimum for X. brasiliensis; no such difference, however,
existed between the other two species.

At 32째 C 80% Rr.u. satisfied practically all the conditions of an optimum humidity for
the three species (tables 23, 24). A significant retardation in the development of the
larvae of X. cheopis at 90% R.H. when compared with that at 80% r.u. was due to slight
crust formation. The combined larval and pupal life of X. brasiliensis was statistically much
longer than that of the other two species at 80% R.H., perhaps because this temperature
is above the optimum for the larva of this species (figure 6). The same is true of the larvae
of X. cheopis, as its combined larval and pupal life was highly significantly longer than that