put the matter as follows: ‘Calling the imaginary line which joins the posterior nodal point
with the fixation point “the fixation axis” then this line makes with the optic axis the angle
alpha which varies usually from 4 to 7° horizontally, and from 2 to 3° vertically’ (see
Part VII). From these angles we can readily calculate the displacement of the fixation
point from the axial point. On the assumption, made previously, that the posterior nodal
distance of the eye is 16-81 mm., the fixation point is found to be from 1-13 to 1:99 mm.
outwards, and from 0:56 to 0:85 mm. downwards from the axial point. It is clear then that
the statement made above is correct, namely, that the fixation point varies in position in
different subjects. This raises the question as to the cause of one particular point being
selected for purposes of fixation rather than another point. There is little doubt that there
is a marked fall in acuity as soon as the fixation point is left, but there is no justification
for the supposition that this is due to deterioration in the definition of the image on the
retina. Ifsuch a failure in the retinal image did in fact occur, as one passed away from the
fixation point, then one would expect to find, perhaps, a deterioration as one moved in a
direction away from the axial point, but a corresponding improvement as one passed away
from the fixation point but towards the axial point. Such, however, is not found to be the
case, in all directions there is deterioration; showing that this supposition is incorrect.
Since the lens system of the eye is not responsible for the breakdown in acuity, we must
seek for the cause elsewhere, for example, in the retina, or in some other part of the organ
of vision. It appears to the author that both the choice of a particular fixation point, and
the deterioration which occurs when it is departed from, can be accounted for on the
cluster hypothesis as follows: cluster formation occurs everywhere all over the retina. In


VISUAL PERCEPTION OF FINE DETAIL 617