rows being staggered. The distance between the centre of one hole and those nearest to it,
was 20 mm. All the holes were glazed with colour filters, some red, some green and some
blue. In all the rows the order of the colours, from left to right, was: red, green, blue, red,
green, etc. Red was the first colour in all the rows with an odd number, while blue was
the first colour in all the rows with an even number, and the latter rows began half a row
to the right of the former. In consequence of this arrangement, no two neighbouring holes
have the same colour. The screen was illuminated from below by means of an optical
lantern, its reduced image being examined, as usual, in the micro-stimulation apparatus.
It was found that no colours were visible, the whole area occupied by the holes being a grey
colour. Variations in the ratio of reduction, which were made by changing the focal length
of the objective, had no noticeable effect.

In the above experiments, one fact was observed which will require further experiments
for its elucidation. It will be remembered, when a grating consisting of yellow and blue
lines was examined at a distance, that the colours neutralized one another, yellow changing
to pale grey or white, while blue became dark grey or black, according to tint. The same
change occurs with a grating of red and blue-green lines; in this case it is the red lines
which change to dark grey or black, and the blue-green lines which become pale grey
or white. On the other hand, when a red and a blue-green object are so placed that their
retinal images are small and close together, the colours are neutralized but both objects
remain visible. The red test object does not become dark grey or black, but appears to have
much the same brightness as the blue-green one. The same thing happens in the case of
yellow and blue. With the three-colour screen used above, it was also observed that red and
blue remained visible as light grey, and were not replaced by black or dark grey dots as
would have been the case if they had been on a bright background. The cause of these