In Dinophyllum involutum (figure 30, plate 8) and Tabulophyllum ehleri, the fibre fascicles
are long and slender and follow closely upon each other. The calcification centres are
evenly distributed in a linear series along the axis of the trabecula and do not show separate
sclerodermites. The slender fascicles grow freely upwards at acute angles. This kind of
trabecula shows dense, acutely pinnate, fibres in both transverse and longitudinal sections.

Again, in Entelophyllum articulatum (figure 58, plate 7) or Columnaria (figure 54, plate 7),
the fibre fascicles are short and slender. The calcification centres are fairly far apart and
are roughly arranged in a linear series, usually deviating slightly from the axis of the
trabecula. The result is successive fascicles following one upon another in a wavy course.
This probably represents the simplest type of trabecula. It should be noted that the distinc-
tion between a simple and a composite sclerodermite (Vaughan & Wells 1943) is merely
a matter of convenience and relativity, for in fact no sclerodermites are really simple when
more than one bundle of fibres passed out from them, and the calcification centres are very
rarely arranged in a single linear series.

A quite distinct type of trabecula was noticed by Hill in the 77yplasma group, which she
calls the rhabdacanth. This is a kind of composite trabecula, in which each rod represents
a small trabecula developed from one small invagination of the ectoderm. The aggregates
of the rods bound by lamellar tissue in linear series forms one major trabecula. It may be
mentioned in passing that when the trabeculae become excessively large, as in Codonophyllum,
Palaeosmilia and Stringophyllum (figures 35a, 6, 36, plate 6), they usually show a tendency
to split into small trabeculae with their own axes of calcification. This tendency is carried
to its extreme in Schlotheimophyllum, where each composite trabecula consists of numerous
small radiating trabeculae, and is in every respect comparable with the septal tooth of