to north, or in the reverse direction later in the season, although such migrations are often
spoken of, for example, by Darling (1947), as though they were ascertained fact. The account
given by this author is based upon the results of the 1946 fishing season, when the weather
was very bad and unsuitable for hunting or basking, during most of July and August. In
the 1947 season the weather was better and hunting was successful throughout the summer.
Basking sharks are captured commercially by harpooning them as they swim at the surface
with the dorsal fin exposed; they are rarely caught in the fishing gear commonly employed
in European seas. It is therefore only when they are basking that their presence becomes
known, and since they bask only when the weather conditions are suitable it is possible for
large numbers to be present some depth below the surface and yet for them to be entirely
overlooked. A calm sea and bright sunny weather give the optimum conditions for seeing
the fish. Although large numbers of Cetorhinus are seen close inshore during the summer
they are by no means entirely absent in the winter; in fact, the earliest attempts at a
scientific description of the anatomy of this fish were made with sharks captured in the
English Channel in November and December (Home 1809, 1813; de Blainville 1811).
A male fish 28 ft. 10 in. long was stranded off Shanklin Chine, Isle of Wight, in February
1875, and its skin was purchased by the British Museum (Hadfield 1875); a recent record
is of four Basking sharks seen off the Argyllshire coast near Cambletown on December 18
(Anon, 1948).

The sex ratio of the fish in the commercial catch is peculiar, females being very much
more plentiful than males. There is no reason to suppose that the commercial catch is not
a random sample of the fish basking at the surface, but it does not follow that this is a
random sample of the total population, indeed, it is practically certain that it is not. No
exact records are available of the numbers of the sexes in the catches at the commercial