It consists mainly of a mass of small follicles loosely held together by a small amount of
connective tissue, and is penetrated everywhere by the ramifications of a system of branching
tubes which derive ultimately from a pocket on the right side of the outer surface of the
ovary. The ova are discharged from the follicles when they are not more than 5-0 mm, in
diameter and pass through the ramifying tubes to reach the exterior through the pocket.
The epithelium of the discharged follicle proliferates to form a corpus luteum, the cells of
which contain large quantities of lipoid material. Most of the ova, however, are not
discharged but degenerate within the follicles, forming atretic corpora lutea. Great
numbers of corpora lutea atretica are present in the ovary. In an average ovary there are
at least six million ova 0-5 mm. or more in diameter, a size at which there is a considerable
amount of yolk already present. The ovary is thus unlike that of other elasmobranchs in
which there are usually a few large ova, and in general appearance is more like that of an
oviparous teleost. This is remarkable in view of the fact that Cetorhinus is almost certainly
viviparous.

The unpaired infundibular part of the oviducts opens at the ostium abdominale and lies
shallowly embedded in the liver adjacent to the attachment of the falciform ligament. It
follows a course such that the ostium abdominale is brought directly opposite, and into
contact with, the pocket on the right side of the ovary. Ova thus pass from the ovary at
once into the oviduct and do not wander in the peritoneal cavity. The paired oviducts are
applied to the posterior surface of the septum transversum and pass to the parietal wall of
the abdomen where they join the nidamentary glands. Their lumina are very narrow, not
more than 2:0 to 3-0 mm. in diameter, and their walls are thick and inelastic so that it is
impossible for an object larger than an ovum about 5:0 mm. in diameter to pass through
them, and even an ovum of this size must undergo considerable distortion.