angle subtended by the anodic half of J, on the abscissae. The graph shows clearly that
the arc of the anodic half of J, increases as the angle J,|—J, increases except in no. 3, in which
the anodic half is unduly small. This exception will be discussed below.

The increase in the angle /,;—J, has already been explained as the result of the removal of
the centre of P, and the consequent decrease in the repulsion exerted by that leaf on the
centres of J, and J,. Variations in this angle were considered to be due to variations in the
amount of the centre of P, that was removed and in the degree to which P, was cut down
(see p. 148). Since the arc of the anodic half of /, varies directly with the angle J,—-/,, there
is reason to suppose that these same factors which caused the variations in the angle [,—/,
also caused those in the asymmetry of J).

This provisional conclusion, together with some other facts to be mentioned below
concerning the present experiments, and also some evidence from other experiments to be
reported in a later paper, have led the writer to consider the following possibility with
regard to the relationship between phyllotaxis and leaf asymmetry in this species, both in
normal plants and in the experiments. It may be that those conditions which inhibit the
formation of a new leaf centre promote the extension of the flanks of a leaf round the apex.
A new leaf centre would then in general arise on the same side of the apex as the shorter
half of the previous leaf, as is found to be the rule in a normal apex. In terms of the
inhibition theory it must be supposed that the influence exerted by the leaf centres on the
subsequent leaves is such as to inhibit the formation of new leaf centres but to promote
the extension of their flanks round the apex. This hypothesis seems at first rather arbitrary
and improbable, but it agrees well with the facts concerning the normal plant and con-
cerning J, and J, in the experiments. Thus in the experiments nos. 1 to 8 which form group I