be suggested that the whole area occupied by P, had been determined to form a leaf
before the centre was removed and was only gradually occupied by the flanks; but the
results of some other experiments in which the apex was split do not support this suggestion.
In these experiments, which will be more fully reported later, the split was made at right
angles to the median plane of P,. When the operation was made early in the plastochron
at a stage when P, subtended less than 180° the whole visible part of the leaf was confined
to one of the split halves, and the flanks of P, did not develop on the other half, as they
would have been expected to do if they had been already determined. But they did
continue’ to extend round the half-apex which carried the centre of P,, extending through
the tissue adjacent to the wound and above it. On the other hand, when the split was
made later in the plastochron so that the flanks of P, were severed by the cut, then the
flanks continued to extend round the half-apex remote from the leaf centre, but not round
the half carrying that centre. The facts therefore indicate that the tips of the flanks of
a leaf when once they are formed tend to extend round the apex or half-apex on which
they are situated without needing any influence from the leaf centre for their further
growth, and also that the flanks are determined later than the centre.

Thus the manner of initiation and development of a primordium in Rhoeo appears to
differ from that which was found in the dicotyledon Lupinus albus previously investigated.
For we concluded (1931, 1933) that in L. albus a leaf primordium was determined as a whole
as soon as a space was available both wide enough and low enough for it. There was there-
fore a certain minimum area of the apex in which a primordium could be determined, and
when a primordium was determined in it, this area constituted the primary area of the
primordium (Snow, M. & R. 1933, p. 360). This primary area included the stipules as
well as the central part of the leaf, though some extension of the stipules round the apex