mixture allowed to stand for 15 min. It is then centrifuged and the residue washed
several times with physiological saline. A small proportion of intact erythrocytes is
always present at this stage. These residual cells cannot be haemolysed by short contact
with the haemolytic agent. It is necessary to leave them overnight (about 12 hr.) with
a 0-3 % solution of agent, when haemolysis is complete and the haemoglobin can be com-
pletely removed by washing the nuclei with physiological saline. Even with this method,
however, some jelly-like particles, presumably formed by the coalescence of some of the
nuclei, are present. These can be removed by straining the suspension through muslin.
The nuclei are then washed successively with 50%, 70% and absolute alcohol, the
washing with the latter solvent being repeated as many times as is necessary completely
to remove the yellow pigment which is usually, but not invariably, associated with fowl
erythrocyte nuclei. They are then suspended in ether and filtered at the pump. Micro-
scopic examination of nuclei prepared by this method reveals the fact that a proportion
of the nuclei, although free from haemoglobin, retain the stroma. Thus, in wet smears
of the undried preparations an outline (‘ghost’) of the whole cell, retaining its original
oval shape and containing a nucleus in the centre, can sometimes be seen, while in
preparations treated with alcohol or completely dried a fine jagged protruberance, evidently
consisting of part or all of the stroma, juts out from the surface of many, but not all,
nuclei. The proportion of nuclei retaining stroma can, we believe, be considerably
diminished by vigorously stirring a suspension of the nuclei from the final saline washing
in 4 % acetic acid, straining through muslin and repeating the treatment on the centri-
fuged material with 1 % acetic acid. We have, in fact, adopted this procedure in most of
our preparations. One disadvantage of the use of haemolytic agents lies in the apparent
ability of the nuclei to retain a small quantity of them. That saponin is so retained has
been shown in some unpublished determinations of furfurol-yielding substances which