out the nuclei into thread-like formations which later break off as isolated threads.
There is, however, evidence of an even more convincing nature that the thread-like
structures are not chromosomes; they possess a composition which is to all intents and
purposes identical with that of the intact nucleus from which they originated. This
follows, in the case of thymocyte ‘chromosomes’, from their nucleic acid content. Thus,
Mirsky & Ris (1948) state that their lipid-free ‘chromosomes’ from calf lymphocytes
contain 37 % of their weight of nucleic acid. According to Stedman & Stedman (19476)
the lipid-free nuclei also contain 37 % of nucleic acid. Similarly, Mirsky & Pollister
(1947) converted isolated thymocyte nuclei into nucleoprotein by dissolving them in
molar saline and precipitating the nucleoprotein by dilution with water. This material
again contained 37 % of nucleic acid. These results lead inescapably to the view that the
‘chromosomes’ are identical in composition with the nucleus itself. Ris & Mirsky (1949)
have, indeed, been forced to the conclusion that their ‘chromosomes’ do, in fact, fill the
whole nucleus, a conclusion which, in our view, constitutes a reductio ad absurdum. Evidently
Mirsky & Ris’s threads are not chromosomes. If they were, a dilemma would arise of
the same nature as that caused by the classical view of the composition of cell nuclei,
the resolution of which has been outlined elsewhere (Stedman & Stedman 19474); this
solution still holds.

Mirsky & Ris claim that their ‘chromosomes’, which, as we have seen, are identical
in composition with the whole nucleus, contain 55 % of histone. With a nucleic acid
content of 37 %, the nucleohistone content thus becomes 92%. On the other hand,
on the basis of our results the nucleohistone content should not exceed 70 %. There is
obviously a big discrepancy between the two results. Mirsky & Ris suggest that this is
due to the impossibility of extracting histone completely from isolated nuclei, a view which