less interest attaches to the exceptions. An outstanding exception is the genus Ermoceras,
which possesses all the vigour of sharp and varied ornamentation and variety of form,
combined with numerical abundance, that characterize the Bajocian and Lower Callovian
paedomorphic families Stephanoceratidae, Macrocephalitidae, etc., in other parts of the
world. Origin of the numerous forms of Ermoceras by geographical speciation seems
precluded by the continuity of their occurrence along more than 300 miles of outcrop in
Arabia and their absence everywhere else but in Central Arabia and Sinai. The Tuwaiq
bay and adjoining parts of the shelf sea surrounding this part of the Arabo-Nubian massif
seem to have been the sole habitat of the genus; within it they all moved freely; outside
it they did not migrate. We cannot assume geographical barriers within the area, so that
speciation by physical isolation could take place. Rather the proliferation of forms and
numbers seems to have been a spontaneous reaction to a diversified and favourable
environment. This would seem to be, in fact, a typical case of explosive evolution in
ammonites, such as those to which attention has been called by Schindewolf (1936) and
Swinnerton (1938), and presumably to be explained by ecological and genetic speciation
(cf. Huxley 1942, chapter 6).

Concerning comparable explosive radiation among the gastropods of south-east
Europe during the Neogene, Wenz has made some apposite remarks (in Krejci-Graf
& Wenz 1932, pp. 115-117), and I am indebted to Mr R. V. Melville for calling my
attention to this analogy. Wenz points out that many striking forms of sculpture may be
insignificant from the point of view of the anatomy of the animal as a whole; that however
rich collected material may be it is almost impossible to dispose of sufficient quantity to
obtain a fairly representative idea of the whole range of forms present in a bed over its
whole area of occurrence; and that consequently it is misleading to erect upon such