In an introductory paper Silvertown and Dodd ask what they see as the fundamental questions in
any comparative study of plant life histories: “Which traits are correlated with each other?’ and
‘Are these correlations the result of common descent or have they arisen repeatedly as a result of
convergent evolution?’. They distinguish between comparisons that treat species as independent
data points (the tips of the phylogenetic tree, TIPs) and those that take account of the phylogeny
and the lack of independence that common ancestry may confer on samples (Phylogenetically
Independent Contrasts, PICs). This theme appears repeatedly in other papers in this collection
and Silvertown and Dodd show, with some worked examples, how phylogenetic information can
be used to correct comparisons for phylogenetic independence. They show that secondary
chemistry and life form (woody vs. herbaceous), two traits which are conserved in angiosperm
phylogeny, are significantly correlated due to convergent evolution, providing important support
for theories of anti-herbivore defence. Lest ecologists rely too much on specific evolutionary trees
Donoghue and Ackerly caution that ‘It is highly likely in fact that, virtually every phylogenetic tree
found in the literature is wrong in one way or another.’ and they describe the use of sensitivity
analyses to explore the robustness of phylogenetic conclusions.

A major part of the eco-evolutionary game has been explored by demonstrating what it is about
particular species that enables them to live where they do and what it is about them that makes
them seem the best (or the best compromises) in the best of all possible worlds. Extraordinarily
little effort has been put into ecological and evolutionary explanations of why almost all species
are always absent from almost everywhere! One explanation is presumably that evolutionary
specialization progressively narrows the range of habitats and environments that provide the
conditions needed for survival and growth. However another reason for the absence of most
species from most habitats is that geographic isolation has prevented colonists from ever reaching
them.