@J& SOCIETY

Preface

Important insights and advances in scientific discovery are often driven by the development of new technology and
the advent of new measurement techniques. Cognitive neuroscience is no different to other branches of science in its
reliance on such developments to accelerate its progress. It is indeed often difficult to pursue new insights unless the
technology to exploit them is available. An apt example concerns the insight into the relationship between regional
cortical blood flow and cortical activity, made by Broca and by Roy & Sherrington in the last century, in articles
reproduced in figures | and 2 here. It was, however, to take nearly one century before these insights could be put to
use. But, in recent years there has been an unprecedented surge in the range of tools available to measure activity in
the brain. These techniques range from the invasive, with their incumbent problems, to the entirely non-invasive,
which can be used on human volunteers. The multitude of different techniques reflects the fact that each have their
own particular advantages. All methods also have their limitations, be they of convenience, expense, invasivene
accuracy, sensitivity, and spatial and temporal resolution.

Brain imaging methods, which simultaneously localize multiple signal sources, have perhaps the highest profile of
all the techniques which are used to measure brain activity. Collectively, the application of these techniques has
become known as ‘brain mapping’. However, the existence of such methods does not in itself guarantee success in the
advancement of our knowledge about how the brain actually works. A map is only as good as its legend and
the legend can only be truly useful if the meaning of what it represents is clearly understood. The magnitude of the
contribution of imaging methods to fundamental neuroscientific issues is both clear—witness the demonstration of
the principle of functional specialization in human visual cortex—and yet unclear—how much will imaging
methods tell us about how prefrontal cortex performs the complex tasks which make the human brain so unique?
Blessed with the richness of the information which the brain imaging methods provide it is perhaps easy to forget