These advances share a common feature. They were all revealed by a strategy that involved s
collation and formal analysis of neuroscientific data. This approach echoes similar problems and solutions
elsewhere in biology. Many successful empirical programmes in biology face a difficulty generated by the
great quantity and complexity of the data they produce. This problem is particularly evident in genome
mapping and taxonomy, where data are so numerous and complex that computational and mathematical
methods have become indispensable tools for understanding. ‘Io deal with this problem, these disciplines
have developed computer-based information collation, management and data analysis—an approach often
called ‘bioinformatics’. This approach has made the complex data more tractable, leading to the development
and appropriate testing of better-informed hypotheses. The success of experimental neuroscience has brought
with it a problem very similar to that faced by these other biological disciplines. The quantity and complexity
of relevant data, and their dispersion through an extensive literature, make it very difficult to derive reliable
conclusions about the information they collectively bear about the nervous em. An example of the
the problem is provided by the fact that more than 14 000 reports of connections between the different gross
structures of the rat brain have been reported in the past 20 years (Burns & Young, this issue). Data so
numerous and complex provide ample opportunity for the derivation of false hypotheses if treated informally,
simply through the ease with which inconvenient data can be overlooked or forgotten. These complex and
numerous data plainly require analysis in order to develop and substantiate hypotheses about the organization
of the rat brain. Similarly, possible structure—function relationships in the brain cannot be demonstrated in a
rigorous and compelling way while the structural aspects of the system specified by the data are left unde-
fined. Before analysis can begin, however, relevant data must be brought together into an empirically faithfu
but tractable form. Hence, as in other areas of biology, computer-based collation, management and analysis of

ale of

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B (2000) 355, 3-6 3 © 2000 The Royal Society