much effort should an animal devote to gathering infor- dition. Consequently, the optimal sampling strategy is
mation? On what cues can it rely: external environmental likely to be state-dependent.
cues, or the behaviour of others? Should individuals con- The papers by Stephens (2002) and Dukas (2002) focus

ceal information or reveal it to one another? How can not on the benefits (and costs) of gaining information, but
information be efficiently exchanged or pooled? How is it on the consequences of informational constraints for an
transmitted from one generation to the next? Can individ- individual’s behaviour. As Stephens (2002) explains, there
uals exploit uncertainty on the part of others, and to what is abundant evidence that animals in foraging experiments
ends? These issues are clearly pertinent in many different consistently fail to strike the optimal balance between
behavioural contexts. present and future gains, preferring smaller, immediate

To date, work along these lines has been rather piece- quantities over larger, delayed rewards. Such behaviour
meal, with different researchers restricting their analyses persists, to the puzzlement of biologists, despite the fact
to different biological contexts. In this way, investigators that it reduces the animal’s long-term rate of energy gain.
are able to specify what use individuals will make of the Stephens (2002) demonstrates, however, that sensitivity
information that they acquire, and to quantify its value to short-term pay-offs can serve an adaptive function when
in terms of simple currencies, facilitating the analysis of one takes into account the informational constraints on
conditions for optimality and strategic stability. However, foragers. Given the difficulty that they face in discriminat-
as a result, largely independent literatures exist on infor- ing between options that differ slightly in the rate of
mation use in contexts such as foraging, mate choice and reward, animals may do better to focus on short-term
communication. Our goal, in this issue, was inspired by a gains, as this exaggerates any differences in reward rate

symposium on ‘Information and Adaptive Behaviour’ between the choices open to them. The benefits of
(supported by the Theoretical Biology of Adaptation Pro- enhanced discrimination may outweigh any deviation
gramme of the European Science Foundation), held dur- from long-term rate maximization, particularly as the