a special ‘germ plasm’, whereas in urodele amphibians and specific form of Dnmtl called Dnmtlo. This form of

seemingly also in mammals they are induced via interac- enzyme lacks 118 N-terminal amino acids present in full-
tions between cells. Azim Surani presents findings from length Dnmtl, resulting in a protein with a substantially
an analysis of the gene expression patterns in single pre- increased half-life. This protein is localized in the cyto-
sumptive mouse germ cells that promise to provide an plasm during pre-implantation development except for
inroad to understanding their specification at the molecu- nuclear localization at the 8-cell stage. Bestor argues that

lar level (Saitou et al. 2003). The interesting question of Beckwith—Wiedemann syndrome could result from errors
why very different modes of germ cell specification should in maintenance methylation by Dnmtlo, occurring at the
exist is addressed in a stimulating and provocative contri- 8-cell stage. This would explain the prevalence of
bution by Andrew Johnson (Johnson et al. 2003). He Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome among monozygotic
reviews evidence that a lineage-based mechanism has twins and the fact that, almost always, only one twin is
evolved repeatedly, and argues that it offers the advantage affected and the other is normal. Finally, Jeannie Lee
of enabling relaxation of the constraints on body plan reviews molecular studies of the initiation and mainte-
organization. nance of X-chromosome inactivation, a process that was

One of the problems in approaching pre-patterning in hypothesized by Mary Lyon over 40 years ago to account
mammals is the lack of relevant maternal-effect mutants, for the equalization of the functional dosage of X-linked
and there are various reasons why these may be difficult to genes between the sexes. She describes X-inactivation
unearth in mammals. However, the approach of Barbara intergenic transcription elements (Xite), a 25 kb region
Knowles and her colleagues of comparing overall patterns upstream of Xist and Tsix, which contains several DNase
of gene expression during the period spanning the oocyte- hypersensitive sites and is the source of several non-coding
to-embryo transition in the mouse offers an alternative transcripts. She argues that the Xite transcripts affect the
way of identifying genes with specific roles in early expression of Tsix in cis, thus determining which of the