(@@— THE ROYAL Published online 7 July 2004
WIG SOCIETY

Introduction

It is generally taken for granted that water is essential for defining parameter for life—if there is no water there can
life. Looking for water on Mars has been a preoccupation be no life. Our search for extraterrestrial life, for example,
for decades, and there are an infinite number of meetings concentrates almost entirely on finding places where water
on the general topic of ‘water in biology’. Yet these rarely might be (or might have been) present. And on the face
ask precisely why water is important. And if we cannot of it, there is plenty of evidence that the familiar forms of
answer that question, then perhaps it might be replaced life certainly do not thrive in the absence of water—drying
by some other medium in some other life form that can food has long been an effective means of preserving it from
still metabolize and reproduce. In fact, there is recent evi- microbial attack, for example.
dence that the molecular-level requirements for water may On Earth, of course, where there are no other liquids
have been overstated. Our Discussion Meeting aimed to available, the evolution of a life form that depended on a
take a constructively sceptical view, encouraging diversity liquid medium other than water is hardly likely. So if the
of attitude by bringing together interested scientists from life we see on Earth is dependent on water, is this simply
a range of disciplines. an inevitable consequence of the universal presence of
Identifying the real reasons for water’s biological impor- water on Earth? Or is it because water is uniquely capable
tance is one of those areas of research where we need to of supporting the existence of anything we would recog-
stand on the shoulders of our predecessors. Given the nize as living?

interdisciplinary breadth of the field, we recognized the But if all life really depends upon water, we ought to be
need to shape the meeting by concentrating our efforts. able to say why. What is unique about the properties of
Accordingly, the meeting purposely focused on the molecu- water that prevent its replacement by another compound?