Another factor that has not been mentioned at all is that to have simple system integration of very complicated sys-
water leads so easily to enthalpy—entropy compensation, tems like the life forms in this room. You can imagine
which protects many things that are essential for life other simpler forms working for simpler life forms, but it
against variations in, for example, temperature. These is the economy of water in allowing you to do all those
enormous enthalpy—energy compensation effects, and things with one molecule. Now when you talk about the

associated heat capacity effects, are extremely important. silica case, then O-Si is very like HO in many ways. There
I am not aware of any other solvent that has this capacity are a lot of amorphous forms and there are a lot of crystal-
for these effects. line forms. At high temperature, you might indeed imagine

T. H. Lilley. What you say is correct with respect to the something happening, and of course it has special features

physical properties of water, but a group of solvents that like the fact that it will incorporate just about anything.
are interesting to think about are the amidic solvents, Which is why we have glasses, and when people want to
particularly the smaller amidic solvents. They have high encapsulate things like nuclear waste they do it in silica-
dielectric constants, and relatively small size; they have based glasses because they have that variety. If we only
bonding patterns quite similar to those found in pro- want a simple form of life that shows your three aspects
teins—the secondary amide bond is the peptide bond. So of synthesis, metabolism and reproduction, there may well
there is I think the possibility of having systems where the be something based on silica. It will not be anything like
interior parts of the protein, for example, are more as complex as us, I suspect.

exposed by being in an amidic solvent but nevertheless T. H. Lilley. I agree with that. Of course, one can have
you would still have some structure. I think one can vis- systems, and modify solvent systems, so you get some of
ualize that sort of thing. the elements of life processes. You can get self-assembly
