
There are so many that we do not know, some macromol- Is this an example—or a counter-example—of what Roy
ecules have to be catalytic, some have to be structural, [Daniel] was saying? We can take it as an example that,
some have to be binding—things like that. We have because we have not yet found the way in which some-
covered most of everything at that point. A few other thing works, it does not mean it does not work. There at
things we have not. There is no reason to believe that large least we know that because they are living, whatever this
macromolecules can co-opt from others’ activities and means, then it is working. If we are interested, we can look
function and structure. On the other hand, I seem to think and see how they actually do it in these conditions where
that all those macromolecules probably will also be able electrostatic interactions are very, very short ranged.

to function under the guise of a very different structure, Or is it an example of what Peter Halling said? We have
a very different set of building blocks, and clearly under these extreme ecological niches, and wherever life was
very different conditions. possible, it happened. So the fact that in niches where

T. H. Lilley. There might well be some truth in that there was no water or in niches where we have just gaseous
of course, in that we know that some of the proteins are substrates or whatever, it has not happened. Does that

structural, and do not have just a catalytic role. mean it cannot happen?
M. W. Ho (Institute of Science in Society, London, UR). 1 T. H. Lilley. There was quite a lot there.

find this discussion very surrealistic. We have not actually I wanted to make one point that bears on the halophile
answered the question: what is life? Nobody has men- thing, and I think illustrates to some extent the lack of our
tioned consciousness, and somebody has said: why do we knowledge. I think we have to admit there are quite a lot
not download our brain to the computer—and do not for- of things that we do not know.
