for taxonomists, particularly in light of the establishment universally) used to ascribe rank should be excluded

of the Global Taxonomy Initiative. because they are arbitrary and not amenable to formal
Space precluded inviting further papers on the myriad hypothesis testing.
other uses made of taxonomy. We have no papers on the However, people who use taxonomy want both accurate

role of systematics in human and animal health: how to phylogenies and classifications that do not throw away all
distinguish among different pathogens and vectors, and information except the topological arrangement of nodes
how taxonomy contributes to understanding their biology in a tree. We think it unarguable that all taxa should be
in a way that might suggest new interventions. Similarly, defined using phylogenetic (evolutionary) principles, for
taxonomy is important in identifying agricultural and for- example that they should be monophyletic, but users look
estry weeds and pests; and in their biological control, by to taxonomists to provide classifications that reflect the
assisting in the discovery of natural enemies that may help fact that the morphological space occupied by plants and
regulate the numbers of these ‘unwanted’ organisms. animals is lumpy rather than smooth. It is patronizing to
There are a series of celebrated cases of valuable drugs non-taxonomists to say ranked higher taxa are arbitrary
and other products that have emerged from taxonomic and thus they should not be allowed to use them. People
and ethnobotanical studies of floras, both tropical and know this, and yet when, say, a plant ecologist visits a new
temperate. There is, without doubt, further scope for this area whose flora is unfamiliar, he or she will frequently
type of bioprospecting, though to the taxonomist, the pro- recognize genera or families without knowing anything
minence given to the likely economic benefits of biodivers- about species. Recognizable groups help, even when they
ity is a double-edged sword. True, it highlights the are not 100% perfect, and nested sets of taxa allow
importance of good taxonomy, but it has made some humans to organize their understanding within a logical
governments very wary of allowing the export of speci- framework. Indeed, with fossil taxa, as Forey et al. (2004)
mens, whether on loan or recently collected, and this has discuss, species concepts are so hard to apply that genera
seriously depressed taxonomic activity and international and higher taxa are of much greater value and indeed val-