large groups of species, even those for which good mor- be of a world where large amounts of sequence data can
phological characters are available for use by specialist be collected quickly and cheaply, at a fraction of the cost
taxonomists. The promise is held out of simple unambigu- and time it would require a human to explore the speci-
ous means of species characterization, of a molecular bar- men’s morphology.

code that will reveal a species identity as faultlessly as the Many of these consequences are explored by Blaxter
barcode on a product in a supermarket checkout. Hebert (2004), whereas Janzen (2004) in messianic mode con-
and colleagues have also been forcibly arguing for this siders the ‘Star Trek Scenario’, when all we need do is

idea, and have gone further and explored one particular point a machine at a leaf or an insect, and like Mister
gene that might act as the barcode, or more realistically Spock’s tricorder it returns its identity and a host of other
for large groups of species, as part of the barcode. They potentially useful information. This sounds like science
have shown that sequencing the mitochondrial CO1 gene fiction, but we believe it will happen, though we suspect
can distinguish correctly among groups of moths, though, not as quickly as Janzen suggests. In the nearer future our

as critics point out, the species used do not pose any parti- greatest concern is that a quantum leap in sequencer
cular problems for systematists. Janzen (2004), however, power might lead to traditional taxonomy becoming sep-
in a characteristically provocative essay, takes up the cudg- arated from a new molecular taxonomy based on some
els for molecular barcoding, and mentions work with Heb- type of clustering algorithm. Were issues of species defi-
ert on Lepidoptera that has led to new _ insights: nitions (discussed below) to be solved would it matter if

distinguishing among a group of skipper butterflies traditional taxonomy were replaced by a new way of classi-
(Hesperiidae) that have different biologies but which were fying and possibly naming species? Our reply is an
inseparable using traditional morphological characters. emphatic ‘yes’, at least for most higher taxa. We have
