their adaptor proteins is indicated in different colours (see the figure). In the neuroectodermal cells, Baz, DmPar6 and DaPKC
localize apically (yellow). As the neuroblast delaminates from the neuroectoderm, Insc is expressed and recruits Pins and Gai to
the apical cortex. The adaptor protein Mira becomes localized to the basal cortex, where it anchors the GMC determinants Pros
and Brat. After segregating to the GMC, Mira is degraded and releases Pros, which then enters the GMC nucleus (adapted from
Wodarz & Huttner 2003). (6) The main functions proposed for the different apical pathways. The Insc/Par pathway is crucial for
the localization of basal cell determinants, whereas the Insc/Pins/Gai pathway is necessary for mitotic spindle orientation. Loco
together with the heterotrimeric G proteins are mainly involved in spindle asymmetry (adapted from Bellaiche & Gotta 2005).
(c) DaPKC promotes self-renewing neuroblast divisions. In wild-type neuroblasts, Pins is necessary to localize DaPKC to the
apical cortex. Basally active Lgl functions to inhibit basal localization of DaPKC and, thus, restrict its function to the apical side
for neuroblast self-renewal. In pins /gl double mutants, DaPKC is delocalized and inherited by both daughter cells, and thus
neuroblasts undergo continuous symmetric self-renewing divisions (adapted from Lee er al. 2006a).

suggest that a number of these brat mutant GMCs may The fact that Pros expression is abolished in brat
eventually enlarge to become proliferative neuroblasts mutant clones suggests that the two proteins may play a
(Lee et al. 20066). Interestingly, it has been demonstrated role in the same molecular pathway. Indeed, Pros mutant
that brat negatively regulates cell growth and ribosomal clones in the larval brain also show an increased number
RNA synthesis (Frank er al. 2002). Betschinger and of progenitor cells with a high mitotic index and an
colleagues show that brat has an inhibitory role for the expression pattern similar to larval neuroblasts. This
transcription factor dMyc, which is an important suggests that Pros acts downstream of Brat and, in
regulator of growth (Betschinger er al. 2006). support of this, Bello et al. (2006) demonstrate that

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2007)


Insights into neural stem cells from flies B. Egger etal. 45