broad range of antisocial behaviour, drug/alcohol aspects of emotional situations. The authors are
problems and disinhibiting behaviour and aggression explicit that these are futuristic approaches that have
per se. Patrick considers two alternative integrative yet to be tried and tested but what they propose would
conceptual models: one focusing on the variety of serve to capitalize on the possibilities of integrating
impulse control problems and the other based on a neuroscience and clinical science as applied to the
neurobiological model reflecting dysfunction in a set remediation of violence.
of interconnected brain systems. Clearly, the challenge McGuire (2008) echoes Loeber & Pardini’s emphasis
is to bring these two approaches together. on both the range of causal questions that need
Blair (2008) attempts to do just this in his discussion addressing and the heterogeneity of aggressive behaviour
of findings on psychopathy. He argues that any (including the massive number of killings associated with
neurobiological model would have to account for war and with genocide). In the biological investigation of
both the emotional dysfunction and the increased risk individual differences, it is crucial not to lose sight of the
for reactive and instrumental aggression associated fact that many people will resort to violence when there is
with psychopathy. He reports that the amygdala is intergroup conflict. Moreover, the deaths associated with
crucial for responding to fearful emotional expressions war and genocide far outweigh those due to personal
that serve to reinforce stimulus-reinforcement learning, violence. The risk factor for individual differences in
which is crucial for socialization. The ventromedial propensity to engage in violence may, or may not, be the
prefrontal cortex is also critical for the representation same in the two cases, but we must not neglect the
of reinforcement information because impairment is powerful social forces predisposing to (and often used to
likely to lead to impaired decision making. There is justify) group violence.
substantial research (mainly with adults) that has given Against that background, McGuire presents an
rise to findings that are compatible with this model authoritative overview of the evidence on the efficacy
and, without doubt, it constitutes a most valuable of interventions designed to reduce aggression and
way of approaching the challenges. For the reasons violence. He concludes that there is reasonably
already noted, however, key questions remain to good evidence that emotional self-management, inter-