processing stimuli (whether real words or non-words) when compared with the regulars. This increased
that ended in either real or potential inflectional LIFG activation arguably reflects additional processes
morphemes (Tyler et al. 2002a,b). These patients were of morpho-syntactic analysis which are required for
impaired not only on regularly inflected past tense forms parsing regularly inflected forms into their stems and
such as played, but also on real words like trade and morphological affix. The finding that LIFG activation

non-words like snade which shared the specific phono- was obtained for inflected non-words as well as for real
logical features that are diagnostic of the presence of a words, suggests that it is the morpho-phonological
potential inflectional suffix. These features—a word- structure (real or potential) of stimuli containing the

final coronal consonant (typically /d,t,s,z/) that agrees in inflectional rhyme pattern that produces the additional
voice with the preceding segment—we refer to as the activation. Further evidence for this comes from a
inflectional rhyme pattern. The fact that the patients were comparison between two sets of non-words—regular
impaired on all three types of words, but had no non-words (e.g. crade-cray) and simple non-words
difficulty in processing words which did not contain (e.g. blane-blay). This contrast showed an increased
these phonological properties, suggested that the activation for the regular non-words when compared
processes of morpho-phonological parsing were with the simple non-words but only in the LIFG and
disrupted in these patients because of damage to their not in the LMTG or STG. When neither a stem nor a
Lperisylvian language areas. These were patients where whole word is accessed (as is the case for non-words),
processing of monosyllabic content words was generally then there is no differential STG/MTG activity, but
spared, based on relatively intact temporal lobe systems the inflectional rhyme pattern present in the regular
(LH and/or RH), but where the fronto-temporal system non-words still triggers the LIFG.
linking basic lexical access with combinatorial morpho- We attribute the increased LMTG and STG
syntactic processing was in some way disrupted. activation (figure 3) for real regular and pseudo-
These hypotheses about patient performance made inflected forms to the special processing demands