transmission studies in ‘humanized’ transgenic mice to | contacted me and suggested another approach, recruit-
investigate the ability of BSE prions to propagate using ing a nurse with extensive experience working in
human prion protein to address this key issue (Collinge remote environments who could be trained to take on
et al. 1995). other responsibilities. My colleague had someone in
Kuru, of course, provided the principal experience mind and shortly thereafter introduced me to Jerome
of an epidemic human prion disease, and one thathad Whitfield. Jerome had an impressive, if unorthodox,
apparently been transmitted predominantly by the oral curriculum vitae having worked as a paramedic in the
route. The prevailing assumption at the time was that @™my and with wide experience as a medical aid worker
kuru had effectively disappeared following a long in developing countries. We talked for an hour or so in
decline in the epidemic after the interruption of its  ™y Office at St Mary’s Hospital and it was apparent that
route of transmission: consumption of the deceased by _ Jerome was ideal and someone I felt would get on with
their relatives at mortuary feasts. However, [had heard  ¢Vetyone in what was undoubtedly going to be a
that, in fact, cases were still occurring, suggesting Challenging and wide-ranging role. He was also, as I
remarkable incubation periods. While the disease had WS Soon to learn to my cost in hopeless attempts to
been very extensively investigated in a series of seminal KeeP up with him on fieldwork, extremely physically fit,

studies outlined elsewhere in this issue, it seemed that screed 1 I came to gIScOVe? py Fore standards. He
further study might yield specific information of agreed to go out to Papua New Guinea ( ) for six

relevance to these growing public health concerns. months. Of course Michael knew well, and T soon

With this evolving background, I wrote to Michael learned, that the scientific objectives we had discussed
Alpers, then Director of the Papua New Guinea wou ! d take far longer. Jerome would often Say to
Institute of Medical Research (PNGIMR), in Goroka visiting colleagues over a beer when we met in Goroka:
in 1992. Although I was by then very familiar with his ‘John told me I would be here for six months, and here