further polyubiquitylation of the monoubiquitylated grations—we established an adapted multiplex
PCNA (Hoege et al. 2002). The heterodimeric E2 __ligation-dependent probe amplification method that
ubiquitin-conjugating complex consisting of Ubc13 can quantify, identify and distinguish homologous and
and Mms?2 cooperates with the RING-finger E3 Rad5 non-homologous recombination events in one reaction
to form a ubiquitin conjugase/ligase complex that (Langerak et al. 2005). Applying this screening
enables specific lysine 63-linked polyubiquitylation method, ES cell clones carrying a homologous
(Torres-Ramos et al. 2002). How polyubiquitylated | recombined PCNAX'®* allele were selected to intro-
PCNA mechanistically activates the error-free branch duce the mutation in the mouse germ line. To test
of damage tolerance and the relevance of this pathway whether homozygous carriers of the PCNA‘
in mammals remains to be elucidated. mutation are viable, the offspring (2=397) from 70
The observations that TLS polymerases are  intercrosses between heterozygous parents were geno-
required during SHM to introduce mutations in the typed. Surprisingly, not only heterozygous but also
variable region of Ig genes and the fact that the RAD6 homozygous PCNA*'®® mutant mice were born,
epistasis group has functional orthologues in higher albeit at a sub-Mendelian frequency (Langerak er al.
eukaryotes suggested that this pathway is of general 2007), i.e. 5 instead of the expected 25 per cent.
importance. In support of this notion, UV irradiation Apparently, the PCNA‘!°4® mutation is compa-
of both human and murine cells was shown to lead to tible with mammalian survival. However, these mice
the monoubiquitylation of PCNA at the conserved still contained the PGK-puroAtk selection cassette
K164 residue, which resulted in the accumulation of expressing a puromycin-resistant gene fused to a
TLS polymerases at sites of DNA damage (Kannouche _ truncated thymidine kinase gene under the PGK
et al. 2004). This implies a conserved mechanism promoter. To exclude a lethal gene dosage effect of
between yeast and mammals in the recruitment and the PGK-puroAtk cassette in homozygous embryos, we
activation of TLS polymerases. To test whether this generated PCNA*' fipe mice, in which the selection
mode of polymerase activation and inactivation is cassette was deleted by crossing to the Flp-deleter
operative in mammalian cells and related to the strain (Rodriguez er al. 2000). To our surprise, in the