response to changes in sensory inputs. Such conceptual advances have important implications for
understanding not only normal development but also pathological conditions that afflict the central
nervous system.

Keywords: ocular dominance plasticity; critical period; synapses; feed-forward regulation;
feedback regulation; homeostasis

1. INTRODUCTION circuitry starts before the onset of vision, and the
Plasticity—the ability of the brain to reorganize its targeting of thalamocortical connections occurs at very
connections structurally and functionally in response to early developmental stages (Crowley & Katz 1999; Sur &
changes in sensory experience—is fundamental for the Leamey 2001; Sur & Rubenstein 2005), proper develop-
development of neuronal circuitry in central brain ment of the visual system requires sensory experience.
structures and for enabling the brain to adapt to its In fact the total absence of sensory input leads to a
environment. Experience-dependent plasticity embo- __ delay in the maturation of the visual cortex. In animals
dies the developmental history of the organism and reared in darkness from birth, cortical neurons display
matches neuronal circuits to the nature of inputs to immature properties including reduced orientation and
enable appropriate information processing. Importantly, direction tuning, larger receptive field sizes, and lower
this experience-driven synaptic organization serves asa _-Visual acuity typical of immature neuronal properties
scaffold for subsequent reorganization underlying observed at the time of eye-opening (Fregnac & Imbert
learning and memory. Indeed, many of the mechanisms 1978; Timney et al. 1978; Fagiolini etal. 1994). Total lack
that are involved in developmental plasticity are the of visual experience also affects the fine structure of visual
forebears of later mechanisms of learning and memory cortex neurons, measured as alterations in the size and
during adulthood in various brain regions. Furthermore, density of dendritic spines, the post-synaptic elements for
understanding the mechanisms involved in the develop- _ the majority of glutamatergic connections (Wallace &
ment and plasticity of connections is important not Bear 2004). Normal developmental processes seem to be