Liinas 1979) concluded that the brain predicts by taking addition to muscular combinatorial issues, noise in the
advantage of the differences in electrical behaviour sensory inputs generates uncertainty in the hand’s true
between the given nerve cells. Because some neurons location. This type of uncertainty possesses the problem
are highly sensitive to stimuli while others are less so, a 0t of estimating the state of the external world. Bayesian
look ahead function might be implemented by neuronal statistics provides a systematic way of approaching such a
circuits through a process analogous to a mathematical problem in the presence of uncertainty (Cox 1946; Jaynes
function known as the Taylor series expansion. And so, 1986; Freedman 1995; Mackay 2003).
what is at the heart of such central circuits that could In Bayesian statistics, prior knowledge about the
provide the intrinsic drive to generate organized move- system is assumed. The fundamental question regarding
ment if it is not reflex/sensory input? The self-referential the CNS function is the origin of such prior knowledge,
approach to the organization of motor control has been and the answer is simple: the morphofunctional brain
given a shot in the arm by the discovery of intrinsic network, initially inherited and then honed by use.
neuronal oscillations and the specific ionic currents Tn fact, the origin of a Bayesian framework can be traced
necessary for their generation (Llinas 1988). Indeed, to Helmholtz’s (1867) idea of perception. It was
oscillatory neuronal behaviour is associated with the Helmholtz who realized that retinal images are ambig-
generation of an overt, rhythmic activity at 8-12 Hz. uous and prior knowledge is necessary to account for

6. PREDICTION AND ‘SELF’

More specifically, while prediction is localized in the
CNS, it is a distributed function and does not have a
single location within the brain. What is the repository of
predictive function? The answer lies in what we call the
self, i.e. the self is the centralization of the predictive
imperative (Llinas 2002). The self is not born out of the