description being faulty owing to the peculiar difficulties of the dissection. This seems, also,
to be the most likely explanation of the peculiar valvular structures which Perrault
described as occurring at the junction of the vagina with the urogenital canal. Neuville,
however, having accounts of only three African elephants available (Perrault 1734; Forbes
1879; and Chapman 1880), and accepting one, that of Perrault, as being abnormal,
concluded that variability was characteristic of both African and Indian elephants. It is
surely significant, however, that the African elephants examined in the course of the
present investigation displayed no major deviations from the normal type. It may be that
the Indian and African elephants do in fact differ in the frequency with which abnormalities
occur, but it is suggested that such a difference is more likely as between captive animals and
those in natural conditions in the wild state. It should be added that, whereas Neuville
attached some importance to variations of minor detail, the present investigation furnished
no comparable details over a large series owing to the fact that it was possible to devote
only a limited time to the dissection of each specimen. It was noticed, however, that,
because of the size of the animal, minor variations of form, and details of structure, were
often brought to notice when in a small animal they would have been invisible. ‘This was
true, for instance, of folds in the uterine wall, where it was often difficult, even in quite
fresh material, to distinguish between permanent structures, or such features as an old
implantation site, and quite temporary folds. Similarly, the dimensions of the reproduc-
tive tract varied enormously according to whether it was measured soon after death, when
it was greatly contracted and thick, or after the muscles had relaxed, when it would be
twice as long but much less in thickness.

The most striking feature of the reproductive organs of the female elephant is the long
urogenital canal, resulting in an unusually forward position of the vulva. There was