in figure 7c, and some of them can be seen in the photographs in figures 17a, db.

It is notable, with regard to the relative longevity of the corpora lutea in these three
animals, that as many as three ‘generations’ can be distinguished in one pair of ovaries,
the newest being developed before the oldest has regressed sufficiently far to have lost its
definite form. Further consideration will be facilitated if at this stage the probable mode
of ovulation and corpus luteum formation is described. The follicle of E146, and the two
similar follicles in one of the ovaries of E116, were the largest encountered in the present
material. If such a follicle were to rupture without much further increase in size, the
former antrum being filled by luteal tissue, one might expect the formation of a corpus
luteum a great part of the bulk of which would be contained in a relatively large protu-
berance, such as is seen in the older corpora lutea of E130, one of which is seen in figure 17a.
In fact, the appearance of the ovaries suggests that these corpora lutea were formed in just
such a manner from follicles very like those of E116 and E146. Further growth of such
corpora lutea would lead to an appearance very like that of the newest one of E130 (C),
seen in figure 175. Still further growth would produce the condition in the large corpora
lutea of the pregnant animals, such as are shown, for instance, in figures 16 and 18, plate 6.
Four stages in the formation and development of the elephant corpus luteum are repre-
sented diagrammatically in figure 8. Each of these diagrams represents a stage actually
seen in the ovaries, as described above, and there is no evidence of a pre-ovulation growth
of the follicle such as occurs in the mare, where the follicle may reach a diameter of 60 mm
before rupture. It seems likely that the size of the mature follicle of the elephant is not
much greater than that of the cow.

The oldest corpus luteum of E130 (A in figure 17a and figure 7c), and B, and B,, the two