notable difference lies in the presence of active corpora lutea throughout pregnancy in the
elephant, in contrast with the quiescence of the ovary, and the absence of corpora lutea,
in the later stages of pregnancy in the mare. Pursuing the comparison, several questions
present themselves regarding the fate of the corpus luteum of conception, the stage at
which accessory corpora lutea are first formed, and whether, once formed, they persist
throughout gestation or are replaced once or several times. In the earliest stage of pregnancy
covered by the present material, the embryo is some 60 mm in length and the zonary
placenta is established. It is not possible to age the embryo accurately, but it is likely to
be more than | month, and is probably 2 months, post-coitum. The ovaries of the mother,
like those of most of the pregnant animals examined, contained the remains of several
corpora lutea in advanced stages of regression, but there is no evidence that the corpus
luteum of conception had regressed to this degree. Some, and as far as can be seen all, of
these very old corpora lutea can be accounted for by the fact that conception is preceded
by the formation of a number of corpora lutea whose remains may be expected to persist
in the ovaries for a long time. There is therefore no one corpus luteum in any one of the
ovaries which can be identified as that of conception by its being older than those which
were active at the time of death. The ovaries of E25, the earliest pregnancy, contained five
corpora lutea which appeared, macroscopically and histologically, to be fully active. There
was one in the left ovary, with a prominent rupture-point, and four in the right ovary, of
which two had prominent rupture-points. These five active corpora lutea, like those of
each of the pregnant animals encountered, were histologically indistinguishable from each
other. The corpus luteum in the left ovary was the biggest and the embryo was in the left
horn of the uterus, but other specimens had more than one corpus luteum in both of the
ovaries and no relation could be discerned between the location of the embryo and the
number or size or condition of the corpora lutea in the respective ovaries.