luteum formation which will occur in the earlier months of pregnancy has in fact been
accomplished by the earliest stage represented in the available material (E25). As the
corpus luteum of conception could not be identified in any of the available stages, even
the earliest, it must either have regressed completely by this stage, or else it must persist
in an active condition throughout the period of formation and activity of the accessory
corpora lutea. That it should already have regressed to a minute remnant indistinguishable
from the remains of corpora lutea which developed and waned before conception occurred
seems unlikely. Furthermore, the sample includes one specimen of L. a. cyclotis (E21) in
early pregnancy, the ovaries of which contain no corpora lutea other than the fully active
ones (p. 130), and as the site of an old corpus luteum is recognizable for a very long time in
the elephant it would seem that the corpus luteum of conception must be among those
which were active at the time of death. If, as appears very probable, this is always the
case, and if the accessory corpora lutea are in fact formed over a restricted period of time
very early in pregnancy, as the evidence suggests, the implication is that multiple ovulation
occurs as the normal process at the time of fertile mating. It has already been shown
(p. 128) that multiple ovulation does in fact occur during the oestrous cycle of the non-
pregnant animal, and it is therefore concluded that pregnancy is in all probability
initiated by a multiple ovulation and the formation of a number of corpora lutea, some of
which are formed from the follicles which ovulate and others from follicles which luteinize
without ovulating.

If this is the case, the similarity between the ovaries of the elephant and those of the
mare during certain stages of pregnancy is seen to be the result of very different processes
in the two animals. It is of course clear that they differ markedly in the later stages of
pregnancy, and during the stages which have just been described there is a difference in