There were the precious Revco freezers in which a ments were frequent visitors; kuru existed and
phenomenal variety of specimens waited to be useful, travelled in field specimens of frozen tissue, in tissue
the freezers themselves demanding meticulous record culture, and in animals that travelled through
keeping from us. There were the cinema and still Bethesda, Frederick, Patuxent and Gulf South;
photographic records from Papua New Guinea anthropologists gathered demographic, cultural
(PNG), Micronesia and other parts of the Pacific, and practical information about what we called
all requiring assembly, copying, documenting and ‘the kuru region’ from the multidimensional archive
special storage. And there were Carleton’s journals, in the laboratories; and reports, analyses and specu-
growing all the time with descriptions of other fields, lations about the biological significance of kuru got
laboratories, scientists, museums, villages, mountain put together, torn apart, put together again, and finally
trails and palaces; bursting with analyses of everything published to eventually form their own diaspora from
from research reports to the author’s own motives; Bethesda. Despite its rigorously local character as a
speculations and hypotheses; facts historical, natural human epidemic, kuru after 1957 quickly became a
historical, metaphysical and geographical; gossip and global phenomenon, and the Bethesda laboratory,
scandal; and embarrassing psychoanalysis of all of us. handmaidens and all, was one of its key nodes. So

many people who were not able to gather in London in
2. KURU ITSELF 2007 were part of that project and made it work—they
The ambitions of the Bethesda laboratory to collect too are part of the far-flung kuru laboratory. Given the
and to archive, far beyond anyone’s capacity to process global reach of kuru, and the long memories and
the collections into useful knowledge, were far vaster archived lives so many of us have, perhaps we cannot
than the crowded spaces in which experiments, really declare an end to kuru at all.

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2008)
