of sera from kuru patients and some controls from the Adelaide Group, which went on to enjoy powerful
Carleton Gajdusek. I was immensely excited, as was leverage with sections of the Australian political and
Carleton, when I found a quite remarkable elevation of | medical establishments. Politically, the Group’s involve-
some @ and B globulin components in the kuru sera that ment was a demonstration that we took our trusteeship
seemed to be absent from the controls. However, our _ of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea seriously and
excitement cooled in the face of more data that — were not prepared to leave the field to Carleton who was
indicated that the sera in question had come from seen as foreign invader. This was an important
very sick, malnourished people suffering from major consideration when colonial administrations of all
intercurrent infections, decubitus ulcers and the like. types were being heavily criticized. The anglophile
That is, we were observing a reactive hyperglobulinaemia, sensitivities of many in the medical establishment had
an epiphenomenon rather than a finding central to been outraged that an American was playing on their
kuru. My overreaction to the initial finding was almost _ pitch and they saw the existence of the Adelaide Group
certainly due to the fact that at the time I was very ag an important expression of our concern for the
interested in the paraproteinaemias of myeloma and welfare of the Fore people. None of this might have
other malignancies of the immune system and was ready —_ mattered much had it stopped at being a reflection of
to put down our kuru findings to some unique healthy academic chauvinism, spiced with a little cold
dysproteinaemia. So, the first great lesson that dipping —_war realpolitik, since Carleton had the ability and means
into kuru research taught me was that we see what we to carry out a comprehensive study of kuru by himself,
are trained to see. while the Adelaide Group could have busied itself
In 1953, the anthropologists Ronald and Catherine verifying, or falsifying, the genetic hypothesis. Unfortu-
Berndt ‘house that the disease reficcred a pystenical nately, the chauvinism became decidedly unhealthy
reaction of the Fore people to existential threats to their 5 :
lifestyle by the advent of Europeans in the Eastern with Proposa seen the Carleton from aencalogien a
Highlands. So, this was another example of scholars head start. Such a situation would have been very
