lens parameters were a spherical aberration coefficient on data quality (Comolli & Downing 2005; Iancu ez al.
of 3.7 mm, a chromatic aberration coefficient of 4.0 mm 2006). All data presented in this report were collected
and a focal length of 5.0mm. All observations were by allowing the liquid helium to evaporate, and then
performed with a nominal magnification of X 10 000 to waiting for the specimen to warm up to 50-60 K. The
40000 and an electron dose of approximately temperature then stabilized via cooling through the
1000e~ per nm~?=10 e~ A~? in zero-loss filtering outer liquid nitrogen shield, and imaging could be
mode. The energy window width was set at 10eV. A carried out without noticeable specimen drift.
special aperture holder with a heating function was The advantage of ZPC is illustrated in figure 3, which
used to support the phase plates. To avoid contami- compares the DPC and ZPC images of GroEL (Danev &
nation, the phase plates were kept at approximately Nagayama 2008). With the conventional approach, the
150°C at all times. All images were recorded with a most challenging aspect of single-particle analysis is
Gatan Mega Scan 795 2KX2K charge-coupled the first step: selecting the images that correspond to
device camera. protein molecules. This is due to the fact that individual
The samples were collected by centrifugation and protein molecules must be identified using noisy raw
dropped on holey carbon grids, which are perforated by images, which usually have a very poor contrast, as
equally sized small holes of 1 jtm in diameter (Quanti- shown in figure 3a. This laborious particle selection
foil). The sample in the aqueous thin-film stage was procedure has recently been automated by the com-
first carefully blotted with filter paper to remove excess bination of sophisticated software and a high-speed
liquid, and then rapidly frozen in liquid ethane using a computer (Mio et al. 2007). Nevertheless, the handling
rapid freezing device (LEICA EM CPC). The grid with of ZPC cryo-TEM images with higher contrast, as shown
the vitrified samples was transferred to the specimen in figure 3b, becomes less prone to human bias.
chamber of the TEM using a cryotransfer system. Once a sufficient number of particles have been
Single-particle analysis was performed on ZPC-TEM sampled and particle selection is completed, analysis
images obtained for a standard protein sample, a becomes more computer based and straightforward. A
chaperonin GroEL, whose three-dimensional structure result of the three-dimensional reconstruction for