body is lost during the process and leaves an empty hole in the section (arrow). DNA fibres (arrowhead) extend from the hole.
(c) An enlarged 300 kV HDC-TEM image of a cyanobacterial sample cultured in a BrdU-containing medium for 24 hours.
(d) An enlarged 300 kV conventional TEM image using the same view field and experimental conditions are the same as given in
(c), except with the use of a Hilbert phase plate. Adopted from figs. 1 and 2 of Kaneko et al. (2007).

spatial resolution and the number of particles, the fully determined, but the results should encourage the
analysis with ZPC-TEM seems to be 30% more TEM community to favourably reconsider the appli-
efficient than that with conventional cryo-TEM. cability of phase contrast TEM. All of the experiments
Viruses have always been a central object of study of reported in this section were conducted with a 300 kV
biological TEM. Negative staining was the first tech- TEM system, with further details explained below. The
nique to radically improve virus visibility, while the | experimental conditions were the same as those
second one was cryotrapping (Doubochet et al. 1982). described in ยง4, except for the specific phase plate
ZPC-TEM promises to be the third method able to used and the fact that the somatic cells (PtK2) were
significantly increase the visibility of viruses in their intact cultured directly on a TEM grid.
form. Figure 4 shows ZPC-TEM images for influenza The first example of cell imaging with HDC-TEM
viruses (Sugawara et al. 2005; Yamaguchi et al. 2007). uses cyanobacterial cells (Kaneko et al. 2006, 2005). As
In figure 4, the contrast improvement is evident by _ shown in figure 2e, the HDC-TEM image can display
comparing the images derived from the DPC and ZPC topographic features and achieves an effect similar to
techniques (figure 4a,b, respectively). Variations in the that of DIC in light microscopy (Danev et al. 2002).
overall structure of virions are evident in figure 4b. Figure 5a shows high-contrast HDC-TEM micrographs
Envelopes made of a lipid bilayer are clearly visible of an ice-embedded cyanobacterial (Synechococcus sp.
under the aligned outer spikes (figure 4c), and the inner strain PCC 7942) whole cell (Kaneko et al. 2007). The
core (figure 4d ) depicts a regularity in packing ofthe thylakoid membranes, carboxysomes and polypho-
genome. Variations in envelopes from immature tO sphate bodies can be identified, along with the smooth
mature are also well resolved, as shown in figure 4e,f. cell walls that surround them (figure 5a). Identification