isolation from the rest of neurobiology. Instead, the mation’; Danchin et al. 2004). These signals
impetus for the recent marriage of social psychology inevitably tell others that we are agents. Motion
with neurobiology came from comparative studies pro- dynamics seem to provide very good cues for agency.
viding us with the term ‘social brain’ (Brothers 1990). Motion cues can be isolated using point-light displays
This social brain, for humans at least, has a ‘theory of (Johansson 1973). In such displays, all information is
mind’, which enables us to predict what others are removed except motion by showing only a few points
going to do on the basis of their desires and beliefs. of light located on major joints such as knees and
It also has a ‘mirror system’, which enables us to shoulders of a person. Experiments have shown that
understand others’ goals and intentions and to  piological motion can be picked out from other types
empathize with their emotions by a mechanism of — of motion (Scholl & Tremoulet 2000). Furthermore,
motor resonance. These systems are triggered by gender and emotion can be recognized from the move-
social signals, and in this paper, we will consider the ments of a point-light walker (Kozlowski & Cutting
nature and function of these signals in a fictitious 1977; Dittrich et al. 1996). Biological motion of this
two-way interaction with an unknown agent. type elicits activity in the superior temporal sulcus
Take a typical Star Trek scenario of being stranded (STS; figure 1), especially the posterior part (pSTS).
on an alien planet. Are there any living beings? Are ingle cells that respond to biological motion have
they hostile or friendly? Are they like you? You need also been identified in this brain region in the
monkey (Puce & Perrett 2003). Detecting and dis-

tinguishing different kinds of biological motion is

* Author for correspondence (u.frith@ucl.ac.uk). important for recognizing prey and predators as well
One contribution of 19 to a Theme Issue ‘Personal perspectives in as conspecifics. This 1S likely to be a very basic and
the life sciences for the Royal Society’s 350th anniversary’. universal brain mechanism, critical to survival.
