plete recovery of spermatogenesis. This effect is geted genes is modulated and specific proteins are
enhanced by concordant administration of the antian- induced or repressed. The mechanisms by which
drogen flutamide, indicating the involvement of an different genes are affected in distinct target cells are
AR-mediated process affecting testicular or extratesticu- incompletely understood, but differences in chromatin

lar cells (Shetty ez al. 2006). The nature of this structure, nature and number of available AREs, avail-
unexpected effect of T remains elusive but studies in ability of the AR and specific co-regulators certainly
jsd mice suggest that T may indirectly affect testicular play a role. It should be noted that not all the genomic
temperature and that temperature-dependent factors effects of androgens are the result of direct interactions
may be involved (Shetty er al. 2006). It is worth men- of the AR with AREs in the relevant gene. Many
tioning that high intratesticular T levels may also effects of androgens are indirect or secondary to
impede the development of transplanted spermatogo- androgen-induced changes in the production of tran-
nial stem cells. In fact, suppression of intratesticular T scription factors, paracrine mediators or hormones
by pretreatment of recipient mice with a GnRH agonist (Verhoeven & Swinnen 1999).
markedly enhances colonization by donor cells (Ogawa An important feature in the androgen signalling cas-
et al. 1998). cade is the role played by active metabolites. In many
target tissues T, the main circulating androgen, is
converted into 5a-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a

3. MECHANISMS OF ANDROGEN ACTION AND metabolite with a higher affinity for the AR and a
CONTROL OF SPERMATOGENESIS higher intrinsic activity (Wilson 1975). Two 5a-
The vast majority of the effects of androgens are reductases (type 1 and type 2) have been described
mediated by the AR, a modular protein of approxi- that are responsible for the conversion of T into

mately 110 kDa, encoded by a single gene located on DHT (Russell & Wilson 1994). The vital role of