et al. 1998). increasing p27?!, GATA-1, sulphated glycoprotein-

SCARKO mice display a unique and novel pheno- 2 expression) suggest normal maturation of SC,
type (De Gendt et al. 2004). In contrast with ARKO there are also signs of incomplete maturation (defec-
males or mice with a spontaneous general AR inacti- tive migration of SC nuclei to the periphery of the

vation (Tfm), their external phenotype is male and tubules; disturbed formation of SC tight barrier and
their growth curve follows that of male littermates so on; see ยง7d). Similarly, transcript levels of function-
(table 1). Moreover, the typical male accessory sex ally important genes in SCARKO SC are variably
organs (prostate, epididymis, ductus deferens, seminal affected (Tan et al. 2005; Denolet et al. 2006a). The
vesicles) that are absent in ARKO and Tfm mice are functional deficiency of the SCARKO SC is most
normally developed in the SCARKO. Importantly, clearly illustrated by their inability to support normal
unlike ARKO and Tfm mice that display cryptorchid- spermatogenesis. In fact, the drastic reduction in testi-
ism, SCARKO mice have normally descended testes. cular size is accompanied by a clear decrease in tubular
However, despite their scrotal localization, these testes diameter and in tubular lumen formation, obser-
are reduced to 28 per cent of the size observed in vations that suggest decreased testicular fluid
normal adult littermates, suggesting severe impairment secretion, a process known to be controlled by andro-
of spermatogenesis. gens (Jegou et al. 1983; Au et al. 1986; Sharpe et al.

Immunohistochemistry confirms the complete 1994). Stereological analysis shows that ablation of
absence of AR expression in the SC of SCARKO the AR does not significantly affect the number of
mice and the preservation of this staining in peritubu- spermatogonia but reduces the number of spermato-
lar myoid cells and interstitial cells. Functional cytes, RST and EST to 64 per cent, 3 per cent and 0
inactivation of the AR is confirmed by the loss of | per cent of the control, respectively, pointing to a
expression of Rhox5, a prototypic gene known to be block in meiosis (De Gendt et al. 2004). This block