production may largely account for the observed dis- the same mice with a GnRH antagonist and flutamide
turbances in spermatogenesis. As Amhr2 may also be stimulates recovery of spermatogenesis up to the sper-
expressed in SC (Jeyasuria er al. 2004), a contribution matocyte stage (Wang er al. 2009). Replacement of
of the latter cells to the spermatogenic arrest, however, flutamide by T reverses the stimulatory effect on sper-
cannot completely be excluded. matogonial differentiation, confirming that androgens
are responsible for the observed arrest but also
indicating that this effect is not mediated by the AR

(d) A key role for the SC-AR in SC.
SC-selective knockout models such as the SCARKO An interesting extension of the SCARKO model has
show, for the first time unambiguously, that the SC been the generation of mice with a double knockout of
is the main target cell by which androgens control the FSH receptor (FSHRKO) and the AR in SC
spermatogenesis. In fact, the spermatogenic defect (SCARKO). These mice (FSHRKO-SCARKO) pro-
observed in these animals is as severe or even more vide a unique baseline control from which the direct
pronounced than that observed in models in which and specific actions and interactions of FSH and
androgen production in the testis is very drastically androgens on SC function and the control of sperm-
reduced, such as rats receiving TE implants or mice atogenesis can be assessed (Abel et al. 2008).
with an inactivating mutation of the LH receptor Comparison of germ cell development in the
(Zhang et al. 2001; McLachlan et al. 2002; Lei et al. FSHRKO-SCARKO, the FSHRKO, the SCARKO
2004). The central role of the SC is corroborated by and the WT control confirms that FSH specifically
studies on cell-selective knockout models targeting increases the number of SC and the number of sperm-
the AR in the other candidate target cells: peritubular atogonia. The initial onset of meiosis is apparently
myoid cells and germ cells. Furthermore, the independent of direct hormonal regulation. In accord-
SCARKO model proves that the classical AR is the ance with earlier data (de Franga et al. 1994), however,
main or only mediator by which androgens control both FSH and androgens have marked effects on the