Rhox5 results in increased germ cell apoptosis, a mice treated with antiandrogens and organotypic cul-
reduction in sperm count and motility and subfertility tures of 8-day-old testes (De Gendt er al. 2009).
(MacLean et al. 2005). Several Rhox5 target genes A functional analysis of the 692 differentially expressed

have recently been identified by microarray analysis. genes pointed to an over-representation of genes
Marked effects have been observed on genes encoding involved in signal transduction, mitogen-
proteins involved in metabolism, including the tran- activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity, cell adhesion,
scription factor PGCla and the secreted proteins calcium binding, insulin-like growth factor (IGF) bind-
INS2, adiponectin and resistin. Unc5c, a netrin recep- ing and, perhaps most strikingly, serine protease

tor known to trigger apoptosis in a ligand-dependent inhibition. In fact, five of these SERPINS were downre-
fashion, was shown to be negatively regulated by gulated more than twofold in the SCARKO. A
Rhox5. This finding is concordant with the fact that microarray time study (days 8-20) indicated that,
Rhox5 ablation results in increased germ cell apoptosis apart from serine protease inhibitors, also serine pro-
(Hu et al. 2007). teases, cell adhesion molecules, cytoskeletal elements

and extracellular matrix components displayed early

and important differences in expression, supporting
(c) Microarray studies on intact testes the hypothesis that tubular restructuring and changes
using ARKO models in cell junction dynamics may be processes targeted
As disruption of the normal cellular environment by androgens during early puberty. As the AR in
impedes gene expression and androgen responsiveness mouse SC appears from day 5 on, a complementary
in isolated SC, identification of molecular targets of | microarray study was performed on day 6 to search
androgen action may only be possible in the intact for genes that might display a very early (maybe transi-