and its emotional basis, the paper is completed by sequences of actions people would prefer to perform
the presentation of an experiment that induces unpleasant actions in the near future rather than in

self-deception through financial incentives. the remote future, contrary to what the standard
Envy is the subject matter in the paper by Giorgio time discount theory in economics would predict.
Coricelli and Aldo Rustichini (Coricelli & Rustichini The next set of papers moves away from seeing
2010), who call envy a social emotion that fulfils the emotions mainly as the result of (counterfactual)
same role as regret in the context of social interactions. differences in outcomes and probabilities. Michelle

Regret is the experience of having chosen one option Baddeley’s paper presents an extensive overview of
and then realizing that if one would have chosen the research showing that emotion and cognition may
other available option, the reward would have been lead to herding behaviour (Baddeley 2010). Herding
greater. Envy refers to the fact that a person could is far from always producing optimal outcomes,
have chosen the alternative option chosen by another even though it can be seen as a rational response to
person and would have ended up with a better out- uncertainty and informational asymmetries. A better
come. Integrating these emotional experiences into understanding of the causes of herding may thus
counterfactual analysis prior to choosing any of the help governmental institutions implementing policies
available actions plays a functional role in adaptive that avoid welfare-harming herding behaviour.

learning. Indeed, Coricelli and Rustichini present a Frédéric Basso and Olivier Oullier make a case for
model in which emotions do not necessarily interfere what they call ‘embodied economics’ (Basso & Oullier
with rational decision-making, on the contrary they 2010). This is in the spirit of Sorabji’s (2006) view that
may implement it: they are a way of evaluating past disembodied emotions are not a meaningful concept.

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)