owing to the evolutionary lability of sexual systems in perennial and many form extensive clones. This
the genus. This diversity includes both the origin of raises the possibility that geitonogamous selfing may
dioecy and its reversion to hermaphroditism. Such play a role in favouring unisexuality. We are investi-
variation complicates inferences on ancestral nodes gating whether clonality influences the origin and
and the determination of the statistical confidence of | maintenance of dioecy in Sagittaria latifolia, a native
character state transitions. A particularly thorny issue of North American wetland habitats that possesses
came to light from sampling multiple populations of | both hermaphroditic (monoecious) and dioecious
W dioica and W. biglandulosa, two species that have populations (figure 2d). Clonal growth results in
been the main focus of micro-evolutionary work on restricted foraging of pollinators (flies and small
the ecological mechanisms driving the evolution of |_| bees) and opportunities for considerable geitono-
dioecy in Wurmbea (reviewed in Barrett & Case gamous selfing in monoecious populations. If
2006). The interest in these species arises because of inbreeding depression is strong, this should favour
their widespread distributions and the fact that they the spread of unisexual variants, as they would
are both polymorphic for sexual-system variation benefit from outbreeding advantage. We have demon-
with both hermaphroditic and gender dimorphic strated that selfing rates and levels of inbreeding
populations. Unexpectedly, and despite a recent taxo- depression in monoecious populations can exceed
nomic treatment of the group, both species were found theoretical values predicted to favour the spread of
to be non-monophyletic. Clearly, this situation makes unisexual variants. This provides a plausible mechan-

the interpretation of character evolution uncertain. ism to explain how dioecy may have become
The problems encountered in this study are unlikely established in this species (Dorken et al. 2002).
to be restricted to Wurmbea; geographically wide- Clone sizes in S. Jatifolia are generally larger in dioe-

spread taxa are commonly used to investigate the cious than in monoecious populations, a pattern also
ecological mechanisms driving transitions specifically consistent with the proposed ecological mechanism.