rules of English. Nation reviews evidence suggesting letters across different shapes and forms (e.g. f, f, F, F)
that knowledge of word meanings (semantics) plays a and to recognize words that are differentiated only by
part in accessing the correct pronunciation of irregular the number and sequence of their component letters.
words, especially relatively low-frequency ones that are Ellis et al. (2009) investigated the role of the two cer-
not being constantly encountered in print. Recent ebral hemispheres in learning and processing new
support for this claim comes from a word-learning written words. In two experiments, right-handed

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2009)


3610 M. G. Gaskell & A. W. Ellis Introduction. Word learning across the lifespan

adults learned to recognize and read aloud fictional two more letters in a learned non-word increases
new words of varying length (four or six letters). naming times by 50 ms in the LVF but only 8 ms in
Training involved a mixture of reading the new the RVF. Learned non-words that appear in the LVF,
words aloud, copying them in the participants’ own and therefore project initially to the right hemisphere,
handwriting and reading them in sentences that retain signs of serial processing (though less than for
provided hints as to their possible meanings (e.g. The unfamiliar non-words). In contrast, the processing of
comy only eats fish; He picked the menfal off the shelf). learned non-words that appear in the RVF, and there-
Participants were tested on the speed and accuracy fore project initially to the left hemisphere, is more
of reading aloud the new words (interleaved with real parallelized, with additional letters making little differ-

words) both before and after training. ence to naming speeds. This matches the pattern
To assess the contributions of the two hemispheres generally observed for familiar words (Ellis 2004).
of the brain to word learning and lexical processing, The explanation of these findings proposed by Ellis