information flow between logic modules’. I believe of the loci in micro-organisms have only one instantia-
everything is there in the ‘hardware’ of the cell; there tion, the disparity between ourselves and E. coli will
is no explicit ‘software’ level, except one in our become more respectable. It is very likely that the
minds. If we do need a new language to help us under- compound structure of a locus is not only the conse-
stand these processes I believe it should be a picture quence of evolution, but also facilitated it by
language that can be generated from the information allowing accretion not only to genomes as a whole
in CELLMaP and not more text. There is already too but also to individual loci.

much text in the world. One good way to view the pro- We may compare CELLMaP with how our under-
blem is as a new kind of molecular biology, the standing of a city would be embodied in an
molecular biology of organization. analogous CITYMAP. The white pages of the tele-

The basic fact that living systems are the products of | phone directory are like the genome sequence. We
evolution raises additional questions. We might like to trust it to be accurate and complete and although it
think that organisms can be represented by a set of lists the people who compose the city it tells us little
numbers which we should try to determine as accu- about how it might work. The yellow pages are com-
rately as possible. Such numbers as the affinity parable to the annotated sequence; they tell us a
constants of enzymes or the number of molecules of little more about function. Thus, a list of plumbers
a protein expressed in a cell will be relevant for allows us to deduce that there will be pipes somewhere
CELLMapP or for any other system. In fact, one of the in the city because plumbers plumb pipes. However,
criticisms of systems biology is that their measure- the essential feature of the city is grasped only when
ments of the behaviour of systems are not accurate we realize that there are units called homes in which
enough and noise emanating from many sources will families live; that in the morning, the families disas-
blur the true values. We must recognize that these semble and the components then travel and
numbers are ultimately specified in DNA sequences aggregate with components from other homes in