ters (Cavalier-Smith 2006a,c). Eubacteria, characterized ancestrally by cell wall murein, is an ancestral paraphyletic group that I
do not make a taxon because I rather subdivide bacteria into subkingdoms Negibacteria and Unibacteria (comprising the phyla
Posibacteria and Archaebacteria; figure 6), as their differences in membrane topology are more fundamental and significant (and
more rarely change) than wall chemistry. Neomura is an important named clade that I chose not to make a taxon to avoid conflict
with the much more radical differences between bacteria and eukaryotes. This exemplifies the principle that taxonomists should
(and generally do) choose points on the continuous phylogenetic tree of maximal phenotypic disparity for artificially cutting
it into taxa—NOT points of greatest cladistic depth irrespective of phenotype. Taxa have an initial capital; grades and clades
that are not taxa have lower-case initials. Previously, hydrocarbon biomarkers were misinterpreted to give much earlier dates
for eukaryotes and cyanobacteria, but these are invalidated by isotopic proof of hydrocarbon mobility from much younger
strata (Rasmussen et al. 2008). Justification for the topology of this tree and its being correctly rooted and thus historically
correct is elsewhere (Cavalier-Smith 2006a,c; Valas & Bourne 2009). A widespread contrary view that the root is between eubac-
teria and neomura stems from protein paralogue trees with long-branch topological artifacts and ignoring palaeontological
evidence that negibacteria are immensely older than eukaryotes. For simplicity, the fact that the nucleus (N) has a double
envelope that is part of a pervasive endomembrane system is not shown. The ancestral eukaryote is shown with a single
cilium and centriole, but both had probably doubled in number prior to the earliest divergence among extant eukaryotes
(Cavalier-Smith submitted 5).

2006a,b). By failing to recognize this, most who where the root of the tree really is within the immen-
discuss the last common ancestor of all life have sely diverse eubacteria before deducing the ancestral
reached entirely incorrect conclusions about its phenotype. This error vitiates the conclusions
nature and do not even realize the necessity of deciding of hundreds of papers. It also misled a generation of

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)

