course, will only provide correlative support (Smulders There are also endocrine factors that modulate plas-
2006; Smulders et al. 2010) and so they should be fol- ticity in the hippocampus. Hormones are well known
lowed by additional research establishing the heritable to affect memory function but most research on
basis of differences between the populations and artifi- hormones, memory and the brain has been done
cial selection experiments. If it can be demonstrated on mammals, mostly laboratory rodents. Gonadal
that selection for better memory can be followed by (testosterone and oestradiol) and_ glucocorticoid

hippocampal enlargement, it would provide exper- (corticosterone and cortisol) hormones in particular
imental support to the adaptive specialization appear to have strong effects on memory performance,
hypothesis. usually in a dose-dependent fashion (de Kloet et al.

Another potential problem with most neuroecologi- 1999; McGaugh & Roozendaal 2002; Janowsky
cal studies concerns the fact that almost all studies 2006; Luine 2008). Food-caching species again pro-
used only hippocampal volume as the main neural vide a convenient model to _ investigate the
measure (Krebs et al. 1989; Sherry et al. 1989; relationship between hormones and memory using a
Shettleworth 2003). In other words, the assumption naturalistic memory-based paradigm in species with
in these studies is that better memory is associated naturally changing hormone levels. For example, in
with an enlarged hippocampal volume, but no other many food-caching birds, baseline corticosterone
measures of hippocampal anatomy were used. It levels are highest during the winter when naturally
appears, however, that volume measurements are available food supplies are most unpredictable but
highly sensitive to a variety of factors and they may energy demands are the highest (Pravosudov 2005).
be quite unreliable when volumetric data from mul- Moderately elevated corticosterone levels, which
tiple sources are pulled together for comparative appear to be triggered by limited and unpredictable
analyses. An article by Roth er al. (2010a) in this food supply in the winter (Pravosudov et al. 2001),
issue provides a thorough discussion of all the benefits enhance spatial memory, probably resulting in