genetic analysis of specimens collected by Charles from different locations, counter to the results of a pre-
Darwin and his shipmates on the voyage of the HMS vious playback study in which local and distant songs
Beagle. The authors use modern genetic tools, such elicited different responses (Podos 2007). The higher
as cloning and sequencing ancient DNA and multilo- significance of the morph of the singing male (morph
cus microsatellite markers, to genotype modern and discrimination) than that of a location where the
historical finch samples and populations from the song was produced (acoustic preference) thus supports
Galapagos, to investigate the loss of diversity in this the hypothesis that song in Darwin’s finches can serve

island ecosystem since the visit of Darwin in 1835. as a behavioural mechanism for assortative mating and
This study revealed that much more biodiversity sympatric evolutionary divergence.

has been lost in the Galapagos than was previously Arelated paper by de Leon et al. (2010) studied the
acknowledged, despite the fact that these island habi- factors that mediate gene flow between divergent

tats are considered to be among the least influenced populations/species of Darwin’s finches. This is a
by humans owing to a relatively late exploration and study of morphological divergence and reproductive
low settlement activity. In addition, this paper makes isolation in the presence of gene flow. The rationale
another important contribution by shedding light on is that ecological differences may work to maintain or
some of the (infamously!) unknown origin of some of | even promote differentiation and reproductive iso-
Darwin’s finch specimens as the authors were able to lation when directional selection is strong enough to
successfully determine the location and species of a counteract the homogenizing effects of gene flow.
number of unknown finches collected by Charles Such a scenario has been suggested some time ago
Darwin and others during early collecting expeditions by Felsenstein (1981) and Smith (1989). The authors
over the last 175 years. take advantage of variable populations of medium
