National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences are EDN, CMAH, ASAH1, CD209, APOE and
(NIEHS), is treated separately, although it can be RRM2P4 loci, at which the TMRCA is greater than
regarded as an admixture group between Europeans 2 Myr. Since there are no such loci among the
and descendants of Asians (Amerinds). The pattern 19 loci derived from NIEHS single nucleotide poly-
and extent of DNA polymorphisms differ from one morphism data, there might be some bias towards

group to another for historical reasons. reporting highly polymorphic loci in the literature.
Previously, Takahata et al. (2001) examined 10 In any event, such a high proportion of six out of 31
X-chromosomal loci, five autosomal loci, mitochon- autosomal loci (19%) with a TMRCA greater than

drial DNA (mtDNA) and one Y-chromosomal locus 2 Myr may indicate a significant demographic change
(YAP). The TMRCA ranges from about 0.2 Myr in the human population during the Pleistocene.
for haploid mtDNA and YAP to 1.6 Myr for both In fact, since the average TMRCA is roughly equal
X-chromosomal and autosomal loci, whereas the to 4N.g years under neutrality, N. becomes 1.55 x 104
PMRCA is mostly assigned to Africans. Incidentally, from the observed average TMRCA = 1.24 Myr and
TMRCA or the time scale of DNA polymorphism in g= 20. There are also other statistics for estimating
living human populations encompasses that of the N.. from polymorphism data. One is the number (s)
entire history of the genus Homo. DNA polymorphism of segregating sites per site (Watterson 1975). With
thus reflects the demographic history of Homo. In par- the average s value being 0.11 per cent in our
ticular, PMRCA contains information about relative sample, we can estimate N. as 1.40 x 10* from
population sizes or different population structures for Watterson’s formula and the assumption of “= 10°
the three major groups and the lengths of their his- per site per year. Thus, N. becomes about 1.5 x 10*
tories. If one group has dominated in these respects, in both estimates. If w is as small as 0.7 x 10° as
it is likely that the PMRCAs for individual loci are mentioned earlier, the N. values become correspond-
unevenly distributed among the groups. However, ingly large. These estimates of N. are at least