stitute male secondary sexual characters, and the between developmental and physiological phenomena.
two morphs adopt different reproductive strategies It implies the possibility to recognize an ‘endpoint’ in

(Moczek 2010). The phenomenon of environmen- development, i.e. a precise time in ontogeny when
tally controlled sex determination belongs to this developmental processes stop to give way to physio-
category, as well. logical and behavioural processes. No general

— Caste polyphenism. Different phenotypes, with biology-based criterion is available for such a demar-
different social and reproductive role, determined cation, and conceivable operational divides between
by nutrition factors, are at the basis of the caste developmental and ‘post-developmental’ phenomena
system in the societies of many social species (e.g. are in principle of no use in other instances, e.g. to
among hymenopterans and termites; Khila & investigate the evolution of plastic responses. As a
Abouheif 2010). Distribution and regulation of point of fact, the evolution of alternative developmen-
the controlling environmental factors are at the tal pathways for distinct environmental settings may
basis of the ‘development’, ‘physiology’ and ‘repro- share significant similarities with the evolution of
duction’ of the society as a whole. For this reason, physiological adaptations (Arenas-Mena 2010). Attri-
although caste polyphenism could perfectly fit into buting biological value to a conventional demarcation
the category above, it deserves to be treated as a can result in a ‘conceptual trap’, i.e. a concept

special class among the plasticity phenomena. that can bias further investigations (Fusco 2008).
— Lifelong plasticity. The capacity of an individual to Another example of how deceiving a traditional cat-
respond to a variety of stimuli (changing its physi- egorization can be is provided by indirect modes of

ology, behaviour, synaptic connections, immune development, where different life stages of the same
repertoire, etc.) in an adaptive direction is also organism are very diverse and separated by metamor-