Emerging viral infectious diseases have been defined as immune system or drugs, and viruses may jump the
either (i) a new disease provoked by a new virus (new species barrier from their natural reservoir host to a
in its nature, transmission mode, expression and/or naive one. Altogether, the picture is quite pessimistic,
adaptation to new host) or (ii) a known disease but since the perspectives for future eradications would be
expressing a new phenotype and associated with overbalanced by the emergence and re-emergence of
increase, in a relatively short time scale, of its inci- new viruses. Classical pharmacological approaches
dence, impact or geographical range. Interestingly, have largely ignored the dynamic evolution of viruses.
the concept of ‘emerging infectious diseases’ was New approaches that take into consideration the evol-
almost never used before the 1990s and its use has ution of viral populations at both the within- and
increased drastically until now (figure 1). During this between-host levels are thus very much needed.
period, approximately one-third of scientific articles The study on emerging viral infectious diseases
dealing with emerging infectious diseases were con- must begin with evaluating the relative importance of
cerned with viruses. In fact, new and potentially the several factors influencing viral evolution. Under-
devastating viruses have been emerging during the standing the ecological and genetic mechanisms
last years as a consequence of climatic change and of ' behind the genesis, maintenance and fate of viral
the increasing introduction of human societies and diversity, and the interaction of viral populations with
its domestic animals and plants into the few remaining their standard and putative hosts has become pivotal
virgin areas of the planet (e.g. Jones et al. 2008; for the development of new antiviral strategies or epi-
Anderson et al. 20046). Socio-economic, environ- demiological control methods. Note that such
mental and ecological factors thus bring local hosts approaches can be developed in parallel for the control
into contact with viruses which may jump the species of animal and plant viruses, owing to the fact that their
barrier and become epidemic. Examples of emerging evolution mostly results from similar evolutionary
viral infectious diseases are Dengue, Junin, Lassa, pressures on the different hosts (i.e. mutation, selection,
Machupo, Hantavirus, Norwalk, SARS, yellow fever, drift and migration).
