2010), but with the drawback of equating fitness and In this paper, we present an analysis of the joint
protein stability (neglecting ecological aspects, gene epidemiological and evolutionary dynamics of
regulation, etc.). Travelling wave models also provide a within-host infections. We show how epidemiology
framework (analytical, this time) to study the effect feeds back on the intensity of selection via the density
of compensation (e.g. Manrubia et al. 2003; of uninfected host cells (resources), and we show how
Rouzine et al. 2008). In these models mutations either in return evolution affects within-host dynamics via
reduce or increase fitness by a constant amount (+s). a reduction in mean fitness (mutation load). We
However, here too, both epistasis and fitness variation derive the state of the system at epidemiological and
among mutations are ignored, and usually the evolutionary equilibrium, and show that the corre-
occurrence of multiple mutants is neglected (i.e. low sponding densities of infected cells follow a
mutation rate approximation), which may be less valid surprisingly simple linear relationship with mutation
for viruses. rate. We retrieve a simple closed form expression for
In fact, an important class of models in evolutionary the critical mutation rate at which within-host extinc-
theory allows for both epistasis and variation in the tion should occur. Our predictions rely on several
fitness effects of mutations: phenotypic landscape simplifying assumptions, but comparisons with indi-
models with an infinite pool of allelic effects, such as vidual-based stochastic simulations of within-host
Fisher’s geometric model (Fisher 1958). A main goal dynamics show the robustness of the analytical results.
of this paper is thus to use this approach as an analytic Following the approach of Bull et al. (2007), our
framework that accounts for continuous fitness results are expressed in terms of a few measurable
variation among mutants (including compensatory quantities. The corresponding predicted values for
mutations), in a way compatible with available data. the critical mutation rate in several viruses (based on
To do so, we borrow results from classical quantitative available data on the distribution of fitness effects of
genetics theory. Following Kimura (1965) and Lande mutations) suggest that an efficient reduction in viral
(1980), we consider that single mutations have a titres could be achieved at realistic mutagenic levels.
continuum of effects (normally distributed) on an Finally, we discuss the implications of our results