suggesting that some gonocytes/pre-spermatogonia male germ lineage. In this context, a candidate SSC

establish the initial pool of SSCs, while other gono- marker would be expressed by cells located on the
cytes/pre-spermatogonia differentiate to produce the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules and be
first round of spermatogenesis (Kluin & de Rooij co-expressed with confirmed markers of SSCs. This
1981; Yoshida et al. 2006). histochemical approach is most convincing in whole-

Transgenic and conditional knock-in approaches mount preparations of seminiferous tubules in which
were recently used to demonstrate that neurogenin 3 it is possible to correlate marker expression with
(Ngn3) is expressed by the earliest spermatogonia clone size (i.e. As, Apr, Agi). Several established mar-
(Yoshida et al. 2004), including at least 11 per cent kers of stem, progenitor and_ differentiating
of transplantable SSCs (Nakagawa et al. 2007). The spermatogonia are listed in figure 3. Here we define
fact that Ngn3 was not expressed by all transplantable progenitors as undifferentiated spermatogonia that
stem cells in that study provides additional evidence are committed to differentiate. An example of this
that there may be heterogeneity among SSCs. A con- approach is shown in figure 4 for the putative SSC
ditional knock-in approach was also used to marker, Spalt-like 4 (SALL4). SALL4 is a zinc finger
demonstrate that Nanos2 is expressed by SSCs (Sada transcription factor that is expressed in the inner cell
et al. 2009). Finally, transgenic models suggest that mass of the late blastocyst in a pattern similar to
Stra-8 (stimulated by retinoic acid-8) is expressed by OCT4 and SOX2 (Elling et al. 2006). In vitro,
undifferentiated spermatogonia, including SSCs SALL4 stimulates embryonic stem (ES) cell prolifer-
(Giuili et al. 2002; Guan et al. 2006; Sadate-Ngatchou ation (Sakaki-Yumoto et al. 2006) and maintains
et al. 2008), although the transplant data in the Stra-8 pluripotency by repressing trophectoderm differen-
studies were limited. tiation (Yuri et al. 2009), possibly by binding the

Knock-out models have also been used to demon- Oct-4 proximal promoter (Zhang et al. 2006) and by