is displayed, so that the divergence in mating traits quest for genes underlying adaptive divergence in
will eventually be governed by adaptation to the organisms of ecological interest where few genetic
environment (‘sensory drive’; Boughman 2002). In a resources are available has only begun. Bringing wild
recent study, Seehausen er al. (2008) established the Strains into the laboratory will not yield the same
link between colour variants in cichlid fishes and  ¢lear-cut insights as in the study of postzygotic
water turbidity and provided compelling evidence for hybrid breakdown even if the same genetic tools
speciation through sensory drive in sympatry. existed as for model species like Drosophila. The fitness
Although sensory drive may promote speciation in effect of a given trait (and its underlying genetic basis)
some systems, it is conceivable that other modes of should preferably be investigated under the full set of
sexual selection are the driving forces of speciation environmental conditions in the wild and will be diffi-
(e.g. good genes (Andersson 1994) or Fisherian run- cult to study under laboratory conditions (Calisi &
away selection (Fisher 1930; Kirkpatrick & Hall Bentley 2009). The quest is further exacerbated by
2004)). Specific examples where sexual selection has the fact that traits important for local adaptation are
been argued to promote divergence include the rapid likely to be quantitative and are hence thought to
diversification of cichlid fish (Seehausen et al. 1999; | have a complex genetic background (Weedon &
Kocher 2004; Elmer et al. 2010) and cricket species  Frayling 2008; Hendry 2009). In the years to come,
(Shaw & Parsons 2002; Mendelson & Shaw 2005). many efforts will nonetheless be devoted to decipher-
Theory predicts that sexual selection is expected to ing the genetic basis of speciation driven by adaptive

be more powerful in organisms with female hetero- divergence. Although getting to specific genes will
gamety (Reeve & Pfennig 2003), such as birds and understandably be difficult in most cases, much pro-
lepidopterans. There is indeed some empirical indi-  8t@Ss is expected in finding candidate regions of
cation that traits of importance for species interest and in answering more general questions
recognition are sexually selected in Heliconius butter- about the underlying genetic mechanisms. Is extensive
