issues in particular, if it is assumed that the age pat- old person today is typically quite different from one
terns of the two populations to be compared do not of the same age who lived several decades ago and
differ greatly. Second, total population size is an who had a much shorter remaining life-expectancy.
important denominator of many frequently used This idea has recently been translated into a redefini-
indicators ranging from gross domestic product tion of age, where age is not just measured as the
(GDP) per capita to food consumption per person to time since birth but can alternatively be viewed as
greenhouse gas emissions per person. In all those the expected time to death, in which case the popu-
cases a separately derived total quantity is divided by lation dynamics looks quite different (Lutz er al.
total population size in order to produce an indicator 2008; Sanderson & Scherbov 2008).
that can be compared across populations. The distinction between men and women as a key
Traditionally, population projections have been pro- dimension of population dynamics has been a feature
duced by simply taking total population size and of demography almost from the beginning. It has to
making assumptions on the future growth rates of | do with the fact that fertility rates are almost exclu-
the population. This has been the standard method sively measured with women. One of the reasons for
until the age-specific, so-called cohort-component this is that not all fathers are known and that the repro-
method became the widely used standard after World ductive age range for women is shorter than for men
War II. But for some specific applications, where the and shows a clearer and partly biologically determined
age structure is difficult to assess or where the popu- age pattern. Also, mortality rates tend to differ signifi-
lation is simply too small to have meaningful age cantly between men and women. Except for some
groups (as is sometimes the case with small area cases of extreme female discrimination, male mortality
population projections), simple growth rate-based rates are typically higher at every single age. In
projections are still being used. But for national addition to these demographic reasons there is,
population projections, age-group-wise projections of course, significant substantive interest in the age-
have clearly become the state-of-the-art because specific proportions of men and women in the
they allow differentiation between the behavioural population which matters for issues ranging from the