
America had more than half the world’s urban popu- in industry and services could locate in rural areas.
lation; by 2000, they had little more than a quarter. Telecommuting allows work to be done and incomes
Asia now has half the world’s urban population. earned in rural areas, even if the work is for a city-

Some caution is needed when comparing urban based enterprise. This is best understood not as
trends between nations because of deficiencies in the de-urbanization but as the urbanization of rural
statistical base. Accurate statistics for nations’ urban areas. Here, most rural households enjoy levels of pro-
population and urbanization levels depend on accurate vision for infrastructure and services that have been
censuses.’ But in some nations, there has been no historically associated with urban centres; many are
census for the past 15-20 years. It is also difficult to also within (say) 1h of central-city theatres, cinemas,
compare the current population of most of the museums, art galleries, restaurants and shops. This
world’s largest cities because each city has at least phenomenon is also seen in the fact that many high-
three different figures for their populations, depending income nations have only 1—2% of their labour force

on whether it is the city (or built-up area), the metro- in agriculture when 15—30% of their population live
politan area or a wider planning (or administrative) in rural areas.
region that is being considered—or whether the city Historically, there are examples of de-urbanization

population includes the inhabitants of settlements where the proportion of the economically active popu-
with a high proportion of daily commuters. Also, lation working in agriculture increased, especially as
there are significant differences between nations in nations faced economic or political crises or during
how urban centres are defined, which limits the val- wars (Bairoch 1988; Clark 2009). In the past 50
idity of international comparisons for urbanization years, various nations de-urbanized for particular
levels. China’s level of urbanization in 1999 could periods driven by central planning and force (for