have the highest R&D elasticities. If poverty reduction uctivity has been an important source of poverty
is the target, much more is allocated to SSA and South reduction as it helps the rural poor increase their wel-
Asia and by 2020 output is increased by 0.58 per cent, fare directly and also helps the urban poor by lowering
but the number taken out of $1 per day poverty is food prices. Perhaps the reform of the CGIAR may
282 million. In SSA 144 million would be taken out help alleviate this potential loss by extending the role
of $1 per day poverty, practically halving the poverty its institutions play in spreading the green revolution
rate, from 48 per cent to 25 per cent. For South (Pingali & Kelley 2007). These problems will be
Asia, the equivalent figure is 124 million, with the exacerbated by climate change, as both higher temp-

poverty rate reduced from 35 per cent to 26 per cent. eratures and a rise in sea levels will hit tropical
This work is an early report from an ambitious LDCs hardest.

ongoing project on ‘best bet’ programmes to be Against this gloom, there is the fact that SSA is

scaled up in the future strategy of the CGIAR insti- finally making slow progress, so that some of the poor-

tutions (von Braun et al. 2009). The latest estimate est are likely to benefit. However, it is probably not
on the R&D requirements is Nin Pratt & Fan (2009) possible to generate sufficient food output or incomes
who have refined their earlier work. They review the in much of SSA to feed the population at all ade-
evidence on R&D and poverty elasticities and deter- quately. Higher up the income distribution, more
mine the required investment in LDC NARS and countries are reaching the turning point in the struc-
the CGIAR and its regional allocation, in order to tural transformation, when agricultural labour
maximize output growth or minimize poverty. They productivity rises as a result of labour being withdrawn
show that to maximize output growth, R&D invest- from agriculture. Agriculture has to provide both food
ment should be mainly in South-East and South and labour for industrialization. If it succeeds it trans-