Agronomique, created a mostly qualitative scenario Saharan Africa where it has doubled, and in Asia
of a sustainable food system that feeds a global popu- where there has been a slight increase. Three regions
lation of 9 billion people in 2050. It uses a basic have aggregate import dependencies; Asia has to
quantitative tool called Agribiom to simulate regional import calories for animal feed; and it is necessary
supplies, uses and balances of physical food biomasses for the Middle East, North Africa and sub-Saharan
and their calorie equivalents but does not attempt to Africa to import to satisfy food demand. Three regions
determine market prices for agricultural commodities have surpluses—OECD countries, Latin America and
(Chaumet et al. 2009). This future, entitled Agri- the former Soviet Union.
monde 1, was inspired by a book that proposed a
sustainability scenario for the food system driven by
a ‘doubly green revolution’ (Griffon 2006). The nor- (d) Discussion of case studies
mative target is, thus, that in 2050 the world has The challenge of communicating multiple futures of
developed a sustainable food system. In fact, it is complex systems has led to a preference towards scen-
assumed provocatively that in each region there is an ario axes of two relatively independent, high impact,
equalization of consumption to an average of highly uncertain dimensions of uncertainty (Alcamo
3000 kcal per person per day in 2050. 2001) (figure 5). Rigorous and transparent manage-
In the late 2010s, increasing instances of food crises ment of uncertainty is necessary to judge the
threaten social and political stability. Values converge adequacy of any model to be a proxy to the future
among actors and the concept of a sustainable system (Wack 1985a; Rotmans & van Asselt 2001).

food system is pursued following ‘hunger riots’. Nevertheless, quantitative food system models are
A. globalized community of practice evolves to valuable in managing existing knowledge on system
manage ecosystem services and there are limits on pro- behaviour and ensuring the credibility of qualitative
prietary intellectual property. Climate change has stories.
