and the continuing powerful opposition to his ideas, sediments in Ethiopia include about 40 per cent of a
it still required fortitude for Darwin to venture ‘It is complete skeleton. Views differ on the relationship
therefore probable that Africa was formerly inhabited of these forms to each other, and to the succeeding
by extinct apes closely allied to the gorilla and chim- and better-known genus Australopithecus. Several
panzee; and as these two species are now man’s skeletons of the latter have been found in the last
nearest allies, it is somewhat more probable that our few years. These include an adult from Sterkfontein
early progenitors lived on the African continent than cave, South Africa, not yet certainly dated, another
elsewhere’. In explaining why the fossil evidence of adult from 3.8Ma _ deposits in Woranso-Mille,
our origins was slow to appear, he prophetically Ethiopia, a 3.3 Ma child’s skeleton from Dikika,
stated ‘Nor should it be forgotten that those regions Ethiopia and four partial skeletons from Malapa
which are the most likely to afford remains connecting Cave, South Africa, dated to about 1.9 Ma. Dozens
man with some extinct ape-like creature, have not as of other less complete hominin fossils from approxi-
yet been searched by geologists’. In fact it was to mately 6 to 2 Ma have been found, as well as these
take another 50 years before such fossil evidence skeletons.
began to emerge in Africa itself, and Darwin would Our meeting was timed to coincide with the double
have been amazed by the remarkable evidence which celebration of Darwin’s 200th birthday and the 150th
has accumulated since then concerning the earliest anniversary of the publication of The Origin of Species,
stages of human evolution. and to take the first opportunity to bring together as
Spectacular discoveries of early members of the much as possible of the rich, newly published data
human lineage, including nearly complete skeletons concerning the earliest-known members of the
and dozens of other 6 to 2 Ma fossils have been human lineage. Through the generosity of the partici-
made in the last 10—20 years. Single complete skel- pants, our hope that detailed images and casts of the
etons are much more useful analytically than new material would be brought together for the first
separate parts of many individuals, yet until recently, time during the meeting was amply met, although in
