changes in phenology are problematic, given both the phenological traits may be relatively widespread (cf.
rarity of comprehensive long-term datasets and the Diggle 1999). In fact, this might explain observations
variability in phenological responses among different of apparent ‘maladaptation’ in populations that seem
species and sites. Ibanez et al. (2010) outline a hier- to be frequently mistimed to the phenology of their
archical Bayesian approach to this problem that food sources or mutualists (e.g. Zimmerman er al.
circumvents some of the limitations of more 1989). As Singer & Parmesan (2010) discuss, such
conventional statistical techniques. persistent asynchrony may be the result of trade-offs

As for the consequences of future changes in grow- with other, perhaps unmeasured, life-history com-
ing season length, Richardson et al. (2010) point out ponents (see also Ejsmond et al. 2010). Clearly,
that both spatial proxies and historical conditions are recognizing the existence of trade-offs and develop-
imperfect predictors: changes in species’ distributions mental constraints is essential for determining
will interact with phenological changes to affect eco- whether current asynchrony in fact represents a
system processes (cf. Cleland et al. 2007). Indirect negative impact of current climate change—as well as
effects of growing season length are also possible if, for understanding possible evolutionary responses to
for instance, pest insect outbreaks in longer summers future environmental change.

cause severe plant mortality. This suggests a need for Inherently time-dependent processes such as learn-
incorporating more of the direct and indirect effects ing can also influence the evolution of phenology:
of phenology into forecasts of ecosystem change. consumers may take time to learn about the existence
This entails, in part, knowing the proximate factors or location of a food source, and therefore may ignore
regulating phenology and the ultimate factors respon- individuals of the prey species that appear or repro-

sible for current life-history strategies—as discussed duce early relative to the population mean. This
earlier. Clearly, this is an enormous challenge, but selective advantage (or disadvantage, if the relationship