would fall off the edge of the Earth if I studied growth-arrested juveniles that have their own special
ageing. However, at last, in the spring quarter of | morphology, do not feed or reproduce, and are quies-
1992, a wonderful, risk-taking rotation student, cent and long-lived. Dauer formation essentially allows
Ramon Tabtiang, agreed to come and study ageing. the juvenile to outlast harsh environmental conditions

Ramon had three projects in the laboratory. The before reproducing. When food is restored, dauers
first was to do the experiment I described above, to resume development and become fertile adults. Only
test the reproductive trade-off theory by laser-ablating young juveniles can become dauers; once the animals
the cells that give rise to the reproductive system. The go through puberty and become adults they no
second was to screen for long-lived mutants. The third longer have this option. Mutations in many genes
was to ask what effect retinoic acid might have on Hox were known to produce a dauer-constitutive pheno-
gene expression in the worm, a project related to my type, in which juveniles enter the dauer state even in
laboratory’s general research effort. the presence of food. (In fact, because dauers are

The Hox-gene project did not go anywhere, but the long-lived, Klass had recovered dauer-constitutive
two ageing projects went fantastically well. Ramon sat mutants in his screen for longevity (Klass 1983) [2].)
down at our laser-equipped microscope, located newly Our plan was to mutagenize animals that harboured
hatched worms’ reproductive precursor cells, and a temperature-sensitive dauer-constitutive mutation.
killed them with the laser. The worms grew up and After culturing the animals for several generations at

were sterile, but they had a completely normal life- low (non-dauer-inducing) temperature (20°C), so
span. I was delighted. There was no reproductive that new mutations could become homozygous via
trade-off. Caenorhabditis elegans hermaphrodites con- hermaphrodite self-fertilization, we would put individ-

tain 959 somatic cells and 2000 germ cells, yet the ual worms, each a potential long-lived mutant, on