Newcastle disease, etc.), the government conventionally Plant disease management with its history of private

pays for the eradication of the disease and compensation sector responsibility offers examples that the livestock
to affected producers. In the case of large outbreaks, this sector might follow. Indeed, growers have devised
can be a significant expense, as with the 2001 FMD imaginative programmes for biosecurity and crop
outbreak, where costs of the epidemic were estimated insurance for major crops such as potatoes. However,
at £3 billion to the public sector and £5 billion to the the threats posed by horticultural imports to growers
private sector [41]. A 2008 National Audit Office in general and to the wider environment may elicit a
report cited animal disease outbreaks as one of the more demonstrative response from the government.
reasons why the responsible government department— Recently, some horticultural growers have experienced
the Department of Environment, Food and Rural severe financial difficulties, particularly as a result of
Affairs (Defra)—repeatedly overspends on its budget, the ongoing P ramorum outbreak, persuading the gov-
while a more recent report highlighted the fact that ernment to explore the possibility of contributing to an
this leads to shortfalls in other important areas such as industry-financed hardship fund for seriously affected
animal welfare [39,42]. The costs involved run on producers. This may or may not set a precedent.
between outbreaks, in the maintenance of surveillance The wider application of responsibility and cost-shar-
and disease-control systems and the capacity to fight ing to plant disease, though, would face a number of
future large-scale outbreaks, including vaccine banks technical obstacles, quite apart from the reluctance
and levels of mobilizable veterinary staff. These public of the government to enter into open-ended financial
costs are generally justified in terms of the production, commitments [48]. There are a number of different
trade and welfare benefits of the disease-free status of | sectors with different characteristics and disease vul-

UK livestock. nerabilities. It is also difficult if not impossible to
There are wider costs of disease beyond the impact assess the scale of the threat from as yet unrecognized
on government and the agricultural sector. This is par- pests and pathogens that could be introduced by