for opposing after-effects for orientation or shape balance, and leads to a renormalization of perceptual
[125,126]. In this case, the dimension is represented focus [129]. Thus, whether or not there is a unique
by the relative responses across the two channels, norm and how that norm is biased by adaptation
while the norm occurs at the unique point where the depend on the properties of both the channels
two responses are balanced. Adaptation is assumed (narrow or broad) and the stimulus (narrow or

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2011)


1710 M.A. Webster & D. I. A. MacLeod Review. Visual adaptation and face perception

broad) [119]. As a result, it remains possible that there mean (zero contrast). Opponency is demonstrated by
are dimensions of facial variation for which the under- the fact that the changes in sensitivity can be selective
lying channels might instead appear narrowly tuned, for colour or luminance contrast, whereas a single
but for which the ‘spectrum’ defining the individual receptor would be modulated by both types of vari-
face is broad. ation [139]. Tests of ‘contrast’ adaptation for faces—
Figure 5c shows at lower left yet another way that by exposing observers to a distribution of faces that
norms might be represented, this time in terms of | vary around the average face—have found only weak
what MacLeod & von der Twer [130] call a ‘split hints of changes [141,142]. (Specifically, after adapt-
range’ code, where the input continuum is divided at ing to faces that vary from markedly expanded to
a physiological null point (the face norm), with separ- markedly contracted there is little if any reduction in
ate rectifying neurons responding to inputs on oppo- the perceived extent of the distortions.) However,
site sides of that null point. This channel could be contingent after-effects, of the kind we discuss next,
formed by taking the difference of the two individual are consistent with a form of contrast adaptation in
sensitivity regulated responses in figure 5a, followed face space.