appreciation of the relationship between biological interesting observation is that ED2’s predictions for cer-
processes at the individual level and the population, tain parameters begins to drop off in the highest
community or ecosystem results of these processes. If latitudes, probably because of the fact that the domi-
novel environmental change imposes selection pressures nant late-successional tree in this region is not found
that cause the components of an ecological system to in the site used for parametrization, raising the possi-
evolve and if this evolutionary process affects the way bility that additional functional types may be need to
that system functions, then evolution cannot be ignored. be added to the model the further it is extended away

Despite the desirability of including evolution in from the area from which its parameters are derived.
ecological models, the most successful group of | ED2 uses size- and age-structured partial differential
process-based models in ecology—the terrestrial bio- equations to approximate the first moment behaviour
sphere models do not do so [27-31]. This may be of a stochastic individual-based model [27,36]. The
due to the fact that their raison d’étre is to predict process of using such an approximation makes
changes in the forest community and so even though the model more computationally tractable but means
they have long simulated run times—typically 1000 that information is lost about individual heterogeneities.
years, the organisms within them also have long gener- Clark et al. [37] argue that as it is individuals rather
ation times. Long generations relative to model run than populations that respond to climate through their
time, coupled with relatively weak selection pressures responses to weather conditions, then it is important
that are largely independent of life-history traits (i.e. to track responses to climate on an individual basis. Vul-
areas are usually either clear-felled or left alone) may nerability of a species to climate change can be inferred
mean that selection can be safely neglected in these by aggregating individual-level data [37]. This is a
models. However, the same would not be true of the specific example of the general principle that individual
populations of herbivorous insects that might live on organisms are the elementary particles of ecology [38].
such trees. A good example of the value of incorporating The basic level of ecological heterogeneity is found at
evolution into ecological models is seen in the analysis of the level of the individual, although one must recognize