then acts as the specific receptor for the binding domain mediate would loop through the transport pore
of Intimin [106]. Invasin, in contrast, directly binds to pulling a strand in the inverse direction and the export-
B,-integrins that are located on the surface of the host ed domain would fold from its N- to its C-terminus
cell [107]—no other bacterial factor, and no type II (not C- to N-terminus as in type Va autotransporters,
secretion system, is required. figure 5). We propose here that this system should
Both proteins are well studied for their involvement be labelled ‘type Ve secretion’, to acknowledge this
in pathogenesis. In contrast, numerous models only significant difference from type Va secretion.
vaguely describe the membrane anchor of these proteins Apart from the inverted transport mechanism
as a transmembrane B-barrel. They avoid—probably through their OM pore, Intimin, Invasin and their
deliberately—a clear discussion on the topology and homologues seem to follow the same export route as
connectivity between the extracellular domains and classical autotransporters. Intimin has a long Sec
the anchor, albeit suggesting that they are autotrans- signal peptide [109] and thus is translocated by the
porters [108-111]. Even the fact that Intimin can be Sec machinery into the periplasm, as is Invasin. The
used for surface display of heterologous proteins [108] passenger domain of Intimin is kept in a trans-
just like in the autodisplay expression systems based location-competent (i.e. unfolded) conformation in
on classical type Va autotransporters [19] did not lead the periplasm [114], and Intimin insertion into the
to the label ‘autotransporter’ for these proteins. OM depends on BamA and the chaperones SurA

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2012)


Review. Mechanisms of autotransport J. C. Leo et al. 1097

and Skp, and on DegP that plays a role in quality the exported domain can stay attached to the transport
control and degradation of misfolded variants [115]. domain either with its N- or its C-terminus (see §4).