
Communicative manual gestures have often been than to manual preference, indicating commonalities
invoked as an evolutionary bridge between instrumental at the level of semantics and conceptual knowledge,
actions and syntactically ordered human vocal communi- and that there is evidence for a convergence between
cation [5,7], although Stout & Chaminade [48] suggest language and praxis at the syntactic level. Although
that parsing of complex manual tool-use sequences some clinical evidence of double dissociation in the
during social imitation might have provided such a incidence of aphasia and apraxia suggest that the two
bridge for earlier hominins without the need to invoke left-hemisphere-lateralized systems are functionally
a separate communicative gestural stage. Liebal & distinct, there are clearly substantial overlaps between
Call [54] note that the difficulty of categorically the neural networks subserving language and praxis.

differentiating actions from communicative manual The papers in this Special Issue demonstrate a wide
gestures in great apes may relate to the fact that many ges- range of approaches to the study of primate tool use
tures are derived from non-communicative actions and to the action—language relationship. Five of the
through phylogenetic or ontogenetic ritualization. papers report work carried out as part of the HandTo-

Social learning represents a third mechanism whereby Mouth project, which was funded by the European
gestures can emerge out of actions. Liebal & Call suggest Commission’s Sixth Framework NEST Pathfinder
that given such a continuum between action and gesture, scheme (cf. papers by Macellini et al., Bril et al., Stout
the heuristic classification of movements as communica- & Chaminade, Barney er al. and Roby-Brami et al.). Six
tive gestures requires the presence of some or all of the additional papers were contributed by scientists working
following features: motoric ineffectiveness, waiting for a outside the framework of that particular project, but
response, gaze alternation and persistence. They cite a whose work overlapped with and complemented it. Co-
recent summary of a systematic comparison of gestures authors of three of the latter papers (Frey, Iriki and
in apes and macaques by Call & Tomasello [55], which Pastra) had also acted as advisers or external reviewers