only confidence rating but did not talk, metacognitive outcomes only seemed to accelerate the process of
alignment was associated with collective benefit social learning required for efficient confidence sharing.
suggesting that with enough practice, dyad members Interestingly, feedback is not necessary for optimal
may arrive at and use the alignment to make better multisensory integration of visual and haptic infor-
group decisions. In line with our previous observations, mation [35]. Following the standard practice in

in the V&NV condition (figure 8c(ii)) where partici- psychophysics, those results were obtained from sev-
pants both talked and used the confidence rating eral thousands of experimental trials for each
schema, no such relationship ever emerged. This find- observer to make sure that performance is measured

ing once again underscores our conclusion that the long after any learning process is finished. It is, there-
combination of both modes of communication was fore, likely that feedback plays a similar accelerating
not productive. Moreover, the fact that the overall col- role in achieving optimality in multisensory inte-
lective benefit was not statistically different between the gration. To our knowledge, previous research in
V&NV and the NV conditions (figure 5a,c) suggests perceptual learning of multisensory integration has
that dyads in these two conditions achieved the same not addressed the role of outcome information on
level of performance employing different strategies for the speed of learning.

communication and decision rules. More research is Once again, collective failure is instructive in help-
needed to understand the nature of these different ing us to phrase the right research question. The
strategies and decision rules. initial failure of the no-feedback groups to exceed

We also conducted a similar alignment analysis on their best member and their subsequent improvements
the data from the NV condition of experiment 1. to the same level as feedback groups pose serious pro-
