bird somehow manages to develop a bill that will different. Most of these factors just carry correlational,
perfectly match a particular species of flower, but not not semantic information. The claim that there is gen-
as a result of causally interacting with the flower etic representation is the claim that genetic material
during development. The shape of the bill carries also carries information of the stronger, semantic var-
information about the shape of the flowers on which iety. Roughly the idea is that genes do not just happen
they feed. That information does not derive from to carry correlational information, but they are sup-

interacting with the flower shape during development. posed to—in the unobjectionable naturalistic sense of
So where did it come from? How does the developing ‘supposed to’ underpinned by evolutionary functions
hummingbird ‘know’ what shape of bill to produce, to and natural selection.”

match available nectar sources in its local ecology? The case for genetic representation is founded on
There is evidence that the bills and flowers have coe- the fact that DNA does not just happen to be a
volved, so the same question can be asked about the means of transmitting phenotypes down the gener-
development of Heliconia flowers [24]. ations. There is good evidence that it has undergone

The same question is just as pressing for behavioural selection for the way it performs that function
traits such as those we are considering here. How does [26,27]. That is to say, in addition to the evolutionary
the animal know how to behave without learning [25]? functions acquired by individual genes, the whole
More carefully, how does the developing individual apparatus of DNA coding, translation, transcription
acquire a disposition for species-typical adaptive behav- and replication has the meta-level function of transmit-
iour when the information that enables the behaviour to ting phenotypes down the generations. When a new
match the environment has not been derived from the genetic variant arises that correlates with a phenotypic
environment during development? Of course we know difference, natural selection can act. Those correlations
that natural selection explains how adaptations arise, can be very long range, with the phenotypic variants