ited information that is present at birth and acts as individuals who make up the culture [22].
a constraint on the developmental trajectory (e.g.
genetic representations), and adaptively-relevant infor-
mation that individuals learn for themselves in their (b) A central role for culturally transmitted
own lifetime. Culturally transmitted information is information
acquired by individuals in the course of their own life- The argument that cultural transmission plays a central
time, but individuals do not learn for themselves that role in generating adaptively-relevant information faces
it is adaptively-relevant; indeed, they may not be able two obstacles. The first is a tension between individuals
to do so. On any reasonable view, the richly interactive learning for themselves, and cultural transmission
process by which these traits develop counts as learning. building up information through natural selection. As
So if innateness were simply equated with being noted earlier, the ability of individuals to learn for
unlearnt, as suggested earlier, these traits would not themselves and adopt the behaviour that seems best
count as innate. That would overlook the fact that to them, from their own limited experience, introduces
they share many properties with gene-based adaptations noise into the system for cultural transmission of be-
that are paradigmatically innate. Their development is havioural phenotypes. As Godfrey-Smith argues [22],
likely to be relatively fixed in the face of the range of vari- the more transmission depends on the intelligence of
ation encountered in the developmental environments the individuals, the less ‘Darwinian’ the process will
in which they were selected. Indeed, their development be. It will be less well-characterized by the models of
may be have become canalized against environmental quantitative genetics, for example.
variation by means of other culturally or genetically However, Godfrey-Smith argues that this at most
inherited processes (gene—culture coevolution in the undermines the applicability of Darwinian micro-
second case). And since the adaptively-relevant evolutionary models to the process. At the macro

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2012)
