to this informational question about development. development. Still, the result is that the selected genetic
The developing individual does not need informa- variant and its associated phenotypic variant increase in
tion because there has been natural selection for a frequency, hence carry correlational information about
developmental process that arrives at the appropriate the circumstances of selection. The DNA system is
phenotype reasonably reliably. At some point a genetic designed to transmit that phenotype to future gener-
variant or variants arose that biased development in the ations (by transmitting the genetic variant with which
direction of a particular phenotype, which affected it correlates). Now consider the zygotic DNA in an
fitness and was selected. Neither at the stage of selec- individual in a subsequent generation. For the system
tion, nor subsequently, did development need to pick of DNA expression to perform its meta-function it
up on information about the environment. How, then, should react to the selected gene by producing, by
did the informational connection between adaptive the same long interactive process of development, the
phenotype and environmental feature arise? By virtue phenotype for which it was selected.
of selection—increasing the frequency of the variant Those facts mean that the genetic system falls within
which adaptively matched the environment. The devel- a simple model for characterizing the contents carried
opmental outcome of hummingbird bill development by low-level representing systems [28-30]. The
now carries information about flower shape by virtue elements are a ‘consumer’ system with the evolutionary
of a history of selection in a population, increasing the function of responding to a variety of different rep-
frequency of matching variants. resentations by producing a variety of different

outcomes, and some method by which representations

are produced by which they correlate with external fac-
(b) Genes carry semantic information tors in such a way that the outputs of the consumer
This account of how genetic information plays a system are able to perform their evolutionary functions.
role in individual development can be made more A simple example is the honeybee nectar dance. ‘Con-