(particularly, phrase structures with multiple long- approach we advocate here relies on explicit formal the-

distance dependencies and_ recursive sentence ories as the basis for experimental design, eschewing
structures) that are beyond any FSA’s capabilities. He questions of signal meaning for the time being. Thus,
further argued that various linguistic phenomena of ‘language’ in the formal sense used for the remainder
movement and sentence transformation (e.g. from of this paper means simply a set of strings defined by
active to passive) are beyond the capability of context- some grammar. No notion of meaning is entailed or
free languages as well, and thus that natural languages implied for the ‘grammars’ we consider: they simply
must occupy some broader subset of the type 0 accept or reject strings as belonging to some language.

grammars (which he termed ‘transformational’). How- There are explicit theories that concern the informa-
ever, it quickly became clear that transformational tion in signals [31] (although this is quite different from
grammars are in fact too powerful, requiring a cumber- meaning, as emphasized by Shannon [32]), along with

some set of constraints to make grammars with this semantic models treating meaning in its own right
degree of power tractable. Subsequently, theoretical [33,34]. There are also empirical paradigms that focus
linguists working within this formal paradigm have on the acquisition of meaning by children [35-37]
gradually honed in on the level of computational and animals [38]. Finally, it is possible to combine arti-
power required for natural language [25,26]. After ficial grammar learning with meaning in the laboratory
some years of suspicion that context-free grammars to create ‘artificial language learning’ experiments

were up to the task, it is now clear that certain phenom- [39]. There is thus no conflict between a focus on
ena of natural language require context-sensitive form (syntax or ‘grammar’) and content (meaning or
grammars, and most researchers in this field now ‘language’)—these are complementary fields of study
agree that human languages require ‘mildly context- that must, ultimately, be synergistically combined.