epidemics could occur even in countries where malaria has

7. Discussion

Malaria elimination has been a highly stable endpoint for effectively been eliminated. The theory introduced here
those countries that reached this goal. New analysis of the suggests that control must be sustained through a transition
evidence suggests that it has become highly dynamically period before elimination becomes sticky, and while other fac-
stable: malaria transmission has declined by at least 98 per tors were associated with elimination success, the countries
cent (i.e. 50-fold) in these countries since malaria was ende- that eliminated were also among the earliest to initiate elimin-
mic [36]. Endemic malaria has also been highly stable. This ation programmes. An examination of all these cases suggests
bifurcating pattern would seem to contradict the standard that malaria elimination becomes sticky for different reasons
theory of malaria transmission and vector control. If malaria in different countries, and that there is a role for a careful
elimination is in fact a highly stable state, then pursuing it assessment of the feasibility of malaria elimination on a
may not be the endlessly costly, risky strategy that many country-to-country basis.

believe. This finding would be significant for countries con- If it is true that malaria elimination is stable because of
templating elimination and for endgame planning for changes that occur after it is achieved, then malaria eradica-
malaria eradication, but the appropriate application depends tion is not at all like smallpox eradication, and the lessons
on the cause of the stability of elimination. The critical that have been drawn from the sole successful human disease
question is whether economic development or random fluctu- eradication programme should be applied cautiously to
ations caused large declines in malaria transmission, or malaria. The end of routine smallpox vaccination saved
whether changes were in fact caused by malaria elimination. approximately $450 for every dollar invested [112], but vacci-
If malaria elimination requires a spontaneous decline in trans- nation programmes needed to be maintained until the last
mission brought on by economic growth or urbanization, then case of smallpox resolved. Prematurely ending vaccination
programmes should aim to minimize the burden of malaria would have led to loss of ‘herd immunity’ and unacceptable