still not wholly assimilated. This was the role of mitochondria sible to understand genes without understanding energy =
in the origin of the eukaryotic cell. Both the serial endosym- flow. Equally, we cannot understand energy flow in eukary- © ‘S
biosis hypothesis, as expounded by Lynn Margulis and otes and prokaryotes without appreciating the need for core |= ©
others [12,13], and autogenous models of eukaryotic origins genomes in mitochondria and chloroplasts, which we think 2
(in which basal eukaryotic traits such as the nucleus evol- maintain redox poise, as postulated in the CoRR (Co-location | =
ved before the acquisition of mitochondria [14]), predict the for Redox Regulation) hypothesis [34,35]. This in turn requires &
existence of eukaryotic evolutionary precursors that lack the interaction of two or three genomes in all eukaryotic cells. =
mitochondria. In stark contrast, the hydrogen hypothesis of Yet, while similar themes of energetics and genome function §
Martin and Miiller posits that the eukaryotic cell originated cut through many fields, the perspectives are disparate. Medi- ©
as a genomic chimera, in which a prokaryotic (archaebacter- cal molecular biology has almost no intersection with deep  &
ial) host cell acquired a eubacterial endosymbiont [15]. This phylogenetics, or with the geochemistry of the early Earth. In © 8
makes the bold prediction that all apparently ‘amitochon- our view, it should. Pleasingly, one of the few scientists who 8
driate’ eukaryotes are in fact derived from more complex is recognized in each of these fields is Peter Mitchell himself. &
ancestors that once had mitochondria. Thus, every eukaryote He is our inspiration in this evolutionary synthesis.
either has, or had, mitochondria. The mitochondrion may The Discussion Meeting on which this Special Issue is
be a defining feature of eukaryotic cells. The genomic era based aimed to bridge the gap between fields as disparate
has so far borne out this prediction in full—hydrogenosomes as the origin of life and ageing, and, in doing so, to lay the
and mitosomes (one or the other of which have invariably foundations of a new evolutionary synthesis grounded in
been identified in amitochondriate cells) are now recog- the principles of thermodynamics. Not all the papers deliv-
nized as highly reduced mitochondria [16]. This discovery ered at the meeting are included in this issue; several are
is fomenting the beginnings of another revolution. Perplexing published elsewhere and not reproduced here [3,32]. Nonethe-
eukaryotic traits, including sex [17], two sexes [18-20], the less, this Special Issue fully conveys the breadth of the meeting,
nucleus [21] and apoptosis [22] are now being re-examined and we hope it will give a sense of the wider themes of energy
in light of chimeric origins. and genes that permeate all these fields. This timely collection
The third development relates to the origin of life. This of papers should strengthen the foundations of the synthesis.