As Lotem & Halpern [54] discuss, rigorous theoretical designed for adult, verbal humans and thus may
analyses of cognitive evolution must consider how often risk underestimating the abilities of non-verbal

different components of cognitive processing interact Creatures [61]. Second, an emphasis on the presence

and coevolve. For example, to understand how learn- °F absence of particular cognitive capacities may
ing mechanisms evolve, we must also consider the detract attention from the possibility that, even if an
evolution of attentional and motivational mechan- animal fails a test of some human ability, some of the
isms. Although traditional learning models assume cognitive processes it applies may still be shared with
that data are presented to the animal as discrete, dis- | humans. Instead, Shettleworth [57] and Spelke &

tinguishable stimuli, Lotem & Halpern’s model Lee [35] argue that important insights may lie in
explicitly considers the fact that animals must sift examining the development of cognitive abilities over
through and obtain relevant information from the individual lifetimes. Just as evolutionary biologists
morass of data in their environments. The model recognize that seemingly different traits may share
assumes that, when animals encounter biologically important developmental commonalities [62], it is
relevant stimuli such as food, they will also attend to increasingly clear that comparisons of developmental
other information in the immediate environment. CO8mitive trajectories may also reveal important
This array of data is then compared with previously elements of similarity and difference between species.
encountered datasets. Segments of data that are For example, experiments by Spelke & Lee [35]
rarely encountered tend to be forgotten and decay, suggest that human spatial cognition develops in two
while links between commonly encountered segments distinct stages. From infancy, children exhibit two sys-
increase in weight and may become fixed in memory. tems for representing objects and vectors. These are
Thus, by segmenting and linking chunks of data largely shared with other animals and are thus likely
according to encounter rates and allowing irrelevant to be evolutionarily ancient cognitive adaptations for