surface or from geothermal vents on the ocean floor provides changes could be the source of intra-specific variation.
the energy to generate more nucleic acids, and the more A new opportunity arose to find adaptive variation
nucleic acids the more information, the more information within the human nDNA as a consequence of the Human
the greater the complexity [7]. Originally, energy flow created Genome Project. The screening of multiple human nDNAs
nucleic acids directly, though inefficiently [6,8]. With the permitted the identification of millions of single nucleotide
advent of intra-cellular DNA replication, however, nucleic polymorphisms (SNPs). These SNPs were then used to
acids accumulated rapidly through cell proliferation. Hence, screen populations to identify chromosomal regions that are
the complexity of modern organisms is a consequence of linked (in linkage disequilibrium) with loci that alter the
four billion years of energy flow and the resulting infor- risk of developing metabolic diseases. Major human meta-
mation accumulation, making biological information stored bolic phenotypes include diabetes and obesity and these
energy. This implies that one of the more important actions clinical manifestations are directly related to individual
of natural selection is enrichment for the more energy- responses to environmental differences in energy resources.
efficient individuals among organisms attempting to exploit In fact, many important environmental differences are related
the same energy resource [7]. to the type and availability of calories and demands for use of

those calories for tissue maintenance, physical work, combat-
ing infections, reproduction and to cope with environmental
limitations such as oxygen deprivation and toxins. The aggre-

2. Evolution and Mendelian genetics gate of all of these factors will be referred to here as the
In the later part of the nineteenth century, Gregor Mendel energetic environment. Since the energetic environment
outlined the rules of inheritance for sexually reproducing within a species’ niche can change, chromosomal locus
organisms. Each parent provides one copy of each gene to variants that are beneficial at one time in one energetic
an offspring through fusion of the male and female gametes, environment might become deleterious in another. Therefore,
generating a ‘diploid’ individual. At sexual maturity, the chromosomal loci related to diabetes and obesity should