in the human population. Those that arose early in human of its genes declined, the oxidative bacterium became
radiation have remained with their original linkage group progressively more integrated into the host cell.
while being dispersed throughout the global population, Surprisingly, the progressive transfer of genes from the
and provide a signal in inter-population GWAS studies. mtDNA to the nDNA did not go to completion and all oxi-
More phenotypically significant variants have arisen through- dative eukaryotic cells still retain a mtDNA. In humans, the
out human history but have been acted on by purifying mtDNA codes for 13 polypeptide genes plus the rRNA and
selection, eliminating them from the global population. tRNA genes for the mitochondrial, bacteria-like, protein
Hence, these loci are not associated with widely dispersed synthesis system [26,27].
chromosomal linkage groups. Some mutants, such as the To sustain a complete bacterial biogenesis apparatus is
PGC-la G482S mutation, may be sufficiently adaptive to very energetically expensive. Therefore, there must be a
have arisen multiple independent times in different popu- strong evolutionary advantage for retaining the mtDNA.
lations on different haplotypes, each new variant associated While several hypotheses have been put forward for why
with a different linkage group rendering them undetectable the mtDNA has been retained [5,28], the fact that all of the

by GWAS. To find these regional high impact variants it will polypeptide genes retained by the mtDNA are central to


the mitochondrial energy-generating system OXPHOS the sequence of the mtDNA and thus changing proton pump-

provides one explanation [29]. ing efficiency [34,35].

All fungal and animal mtDNAs retain essentially the In tropical and temperate environments, it is generally
same set of OXPHOS polypeptide genes. In mammals, more advantageous to be more tightly coupled so as to pro-
these include seven (ND1-3, 4L, 4-6) of the approximately duce the maximum ATP with the minimum heat. However,
45 polypeptides of the electron transport chain (ETC) in the arctic the constraining factor is cold. Therefore, it can