are a unit of heat, such ‘tightly coupled’ individuals generate ted marked behavioural abnormalities and severe learning
the minimum heat for the ATP used. By contrast, some indi- defects [41].
viduals are less efficient at converting reducing equivalents to Because of strict maternal inheritance, the only way that
membrane potential, and membrane potential to ATP. These the mtDNA sequence can change is by the sequential
‘loosely coupled’ individuals burn more calories for the same accumulation of mutations along radiating maternal lineages.
amount of ATP and thus produce more core body heat per Therefore, to a first approximation, the number of nucleotide
ATP used. This altered coupling efficiency can be modulated differences between any two individuals is proportional
epigenetically, for example, by induction of uncoupling to the time that they shared a common maternal ancestor. This

protein 1 (UCP1) in brown fat [33], or more stably by altering unique feature of the mtDNA has permitted reconstruction


of the ancient origins and migrations of women. world. This striking fact was missed in the first paper to

By overlaying the mtDNA mutational tree, which shows report an African origin of the mtDNA [49], since these
the genetic affinities between indigenous peoples with the authors included African-American mtDNAs in their ‘Afri-
geographic location of the populations that harbour those can’ sample and about 30 per cent of African-American
mtDNAs, the progressive movement of humans was mtDNAs are of European, Native American and Asian
mapped (figure 1). The mtDNA proved to be a particularly origin introduced after the arrival of Africans in the Americas
powerful tool for studying human radiation, since the [50]. Second, of all of the Asian mtDNAs, only three mtDNA
mtDNA sequence evolution rate was found to be much lineages (A, C and D) moved to extreme northeast Siberia to
greater than that of nDNA-coded mitochondrial genes found the Paleo-Indians. Third, and most surprising, the
[44-46]. Indeed, the sequence evolution rate of the mtDNA mtDNA sequence evolution rate is such that it produced
has resulted in critical mtDNA changes corresponding important mtDNA evolutionary changes that coincide with
remarkably well with the times of prominent transitional the major human geographical transitions. It is hard to ima-