highlight the disproportionate burden of water collection, between patches affect the delivery of ES [62-64]. a
which rests with women, particularly as the distance to the Temporally, the flow of ES and human needs is not static — 2-
water source increases. [53]. Consequently, any analytical approach must embrace a 3
As indicated in figure 1, the relationship between food wide range of temporal scales, fostering learning from past S
security and the environment can be affected by a range of events and also giving a sense of the biophysical limits of =
internal and external drivers, of varying predictability and what can be sustainably extracted from an ecosystem over ‘5
intensity. Communities may be able to adapt their use of time. Establishing institutional systems that can deal with the ©
ES in response to gradual trends, such as demographic varying temporal scales (e.g. continuous, episodic, cyclical © >
changes and declining soil fertility. However, sudden and stochastic) at which many biophysical processes operate = =
shocks (e.g. droughts, earthquakes, commodity price col- is a particular challenge. This is further hampered by our lack yy
lapses, disease or war), and unusual combinations of these of understanding of interconnectivity and feedback across 2
in time or space, can lead to excessive pressure being exerted overlapping scales within social—ecological systems [60]. &
on ecosystems and cause degradation. The fact that develop- a
ing countries typically have inadequate institutional ‘safet . . co. w
mee’ and inequitable access to fettie lands, resources and (b) Disaggregation of the beneficiaries Ss
secure income often forces the rural poor to prioritize their Recognition of the importance of disaggregating beneficiaries &
short-term needs (i.e. feeding their families) over long-term is relatively recent (e.g. [65]), but is now increasingly accepted 8
sustainability [60]. Consequently, daily decisions for poor to be critical for managing ES fairly [66]. We highlight the . 3%
rural communities at the forest-agriculture interface are need to understand the disaggregation of two components.
driven by coping strategies involving trade-offs of different The first is to understand who benefits from different ES (in
ES. These decisions may be at odds with ES management space and time) and how the benefits flow through to food
priorities at other spatial or temporal scales. production or other utility. This is a key difference to much

policy-level food security work which deals with aggregated
data for whole countries, regions or zones (e.g. [67]) as illus-