the exposure to a very large corpus of spelling—sound words. If a word is found in the phonological lexicon but is
pairs. That is, the input (spelling) and the ‘desired’ output not yet in the orthographic lexicon, a direct link between the
(target pronunciation) for many thousands of words are typi- two is established. Thus, exactly as in Share’s [2] theory, each
cally presented until the error-correction procedure employed successful decoding encounter with an unfamiliar word pro-
as learning algorithm reaches a level of performance that is vides an opportunity to acquire word-specific orthographic
considered adequate by some external criterion. However, information. At the same time, the pronunciation of the decoded
this training regimen is highly implausible: the kind of word is used as a ‘built-in-teacher’—that is, an internally gener-
supervised learning used in all models implies that a teacher ated teaching signal—to improve the efficiency of the TLA
externally supplies the pronunciation of all words that should decoding network itself. As a result, high decoding accuracy is
be learnt. As argued above, in real life, although there is an obtained rather quickly (figure 3).
external teacher (sometimes), the external teacher does not One important issue that we have not fully addressed yet
provide correct pronunciations for many thousands of is what happens when initial decoding results in the acti-
words. As a matter of fact, the power of self-teaching is the vation of several word candidates. In our simulations, we
idea that such an external teacher is not needed [2]. simply chose the correct word (figure 2c) if it was in the
In this work, an external teacher is only needed for the cohort of word candidates. This oversimplification is based
pretraining of a small number of grapheme—phoneme corre- on the assumption that in the real learning situation with

spondences [15] and for the selection of some word candidates real texts, children will have additional information from


the story context, images, semantics or syntax to help them implemented through poor vocabulary (a small phonological

chose the correct target. Nevertheless, as shown in Simulation lexicon), noise in the phonological lexicon, underspecified pho-
3, even if the model failed to choose a word or chose an incor- nological representations or phoneme deficits. Similarly, visual
rect word, the learning process was not dramatically affected deficits could be simulated through noisy letter detectors, poor