properties of newly encountered objects. For example, by animal made from completely novel features. When only two
possessing the category ‘dog’ and being able to recognize a out of the three features were correlated, only 10-month-olds
never before seen animal as a member of this category, we were sensitive to violations of feature correlations, suggesting a
know to expect that it makes barking sounds, chases after progressively developing sensitivity to feature correlations.
cars and may come to lick our hand while wagging its tail. From the second half of their first year of life, infants become
We are also able to name this new animal as ‘dog’. able to integrate different object features such as visual appear-
Given its importance for cognition as a whole, over the past ance, sounds, function and motion [25-27]. For example,
30 years a considerable amount of research has been devoted although infants are sensitive to biological motion information
to the development of categorization in infancy. Much of this from birth [28] and three-month-olds can discriminate familiar
work is based on the familiarization/novelty-preference pro- and novel motion paths even after a delay of one month [29],
cedure that examines infants’ abilities to rapidly form the ability to link motion information with static visual features
categories in laboratory-based settings. This method relies on seems to arise later in development [1,2]. In fact, in one study
the fact that infants tend to spend more time looking towards [30], object movement was found to interfere with infants’ learn-
novel than towards familiar stimuli. In a typical categorization ing of shape—colour compounds up to the age of 10 months.
study, infants are familiarized to a sequence of objects from a More global features indicating animacy such as eyes and
single category and are then tested with two new objects, one fur, on the other hand, were linked to animate-like motion in
from the familiarized category and one from a different seven-month-old infants [31], perhaps indicating that real-
category. When infants show a looking preference to the world experiences with a richer stimulus set enables learning
object from the new category it can be concluded that during of such associations earlier than found in the laboratory.
familiarization they have formed a category that includes the In a study by Madole et al. [25] on object function, 14-
new within-category object but excludes the object from month-olds were sensitive to an object’s change in function,
the different category. For example, in a seminal study that but only by 18 months were infants able to link function
examined the earliest perceptual categories, Quinn et al. [6] with an object’s static visual features. However, in other
familiarized three- to four-month-old infants on a sequence of studies 11- to 12-month-olds already detected the functional
cat pictures and found that in the test phase they looked relevance of object parts and categorized objects based on