cells and caspase 6-treated desmin (figure 6b). Similar-sized expression of desmin, the intermediate filament partner
desmin proteolytic fragments were observed in samples pre- needed to trigger cell death and the muscle pathology
pared from MCEF7 cells transfected with A337P desmin and [9,18]. Indeed our data also suggest that aggregation of the
for those co-transfected with the combination of WT desmin resident keratin intermediate filament network by R120G
and R120G CRYAB (figure 6b). Using the modified IRES- CRYAB and the concentration of the mitochondria in a peri-
Mito-DsRED-based pcDNA3.1 vector to identify the mitochon- nuclear region are insufficient triggers for this loss in MCF7
dria of transient transfected cells, R120G CRYAB induced the viability. The fact that mutations in either desmin [2] or
collapse of mitochondria along with the perinuclear aggrega- CRYAB [1] phenocopy each other further evidences this key
tion of the endogenous keratin filaments (figure 6c—e), but as functional link, which we suggest is fundamental to the
evidenced by the cell viability assay (see the electronic sup- muscle pathologies associated with the respective mutations
plementary material, figure S2) the expression of disease- in CRYAB and desmin. We conclude that the specific inter-
causing desmin mutants induces apoptosis by the activation mediate filament expression pattern must be considered as
of caspases. The fact that R120G CRYAB induces the collapse a key factor in any sHSP-based pathology and this study
of the endogenous keratin filaments and the mitochondria in is further evidence of the functional importance of the
MCF7 cells singly transfected with just R120G CRYAB is very sHSP-intermediate filament protein complex [41,42].

important especially as these are phenocopied by the co-trans-
fection of both R120G CRYAB with desmin. The important

difference is that only when R120G CRYAB is co-transfected The financial support of the Wellcome Trust (R.A.Q., M.D.P., Aileen

with WT desmin is there a significant decrease in cell viability, M. Hutcheson, Paul van den Jjssel, A.RP. grant no. 46747), the
which we take as prime fascia evidence of a unique and specific COST action BM1002 (Travel fellowship to J.L.E.), the Leverhulme
interaction that sets it apart from keratins and vimentin, the Trust (Research Leave Fellowship to R.A.Q.), Fight for Sight (Project
intermediate filaments found in H36CE2 and MCE7 cells. grant 1763 to R.A.Q.) and the National Science Council (M.D.P.,