a direct foundation for both rostral and lateral convergence of and transmodal representation.
information, from which a graded representational hub (centred (3) Differences in performance across tasks, modalities and items:

on the ventrolateral ATL) could be formed [68]. the notion of an amodal/transmodal ATL hub implies


that its function should be inherently multi-modal in the same degree, because less semantic precision is

nature and that damage should result in multi-modal required. This suggests that the ATL semantic regions
impairment. As reviewed above, there is clear convergent are not dedicated to specific concepts alone but rather
evidence for both of these predictions. In addition, some the specificity gradient simply reflects the level of seman-
researchers have suggested that the level of involvement/ tic precision required by the task. This explanation is
impairment should be equivalent across different tasks consistent with the fact that the effect of ATL rTMS or
and modalities. If all other things were equal then this the deficits in patients with mild ATL-related semantic
would be correct but, as with much else in life, all impairment is more apparent on specific concepts.
other things are not equal. As demonstrated across an It also suggests that with sufficient statistical power, it
array of different computational models, performance should be possible to observe engagement of the same
on any one particular task is influenced not only by the areas, in processing of basic or domain-level semantic
core transmodal representations but also by the nature discriminations, which has been reported more recently
of the modality-specific resources/representations and, in rTMS and distortion-corrected fMRI studies [61,65].
importantly, the nature of the mapping between them (5) ATL versus temporal pole: as noted previously, SD patients
[48,71]. Thus, for example, the same level of damage to provided a major source of information about the role of
the semantic system will tend to generate a larger effect ATL regions in multi-modal semantic processing. Given
on verbal than picture-based tasks, because there is an the progressive and graded nature of the underlying pathol-
arbitrary mapping between words and meaning but a ogy, itis difficult to be sure about the anatomical boundaries