words, words > nonwords, etc., generate a significant psychological study by Warrington [49]. She described three
difference in the AG [27,35,36]. Sophisticated neuropsycho- patients with progressive brain disease resulting in a range
logical studies of aphasic naming have recently associated of multi-modal semantic deficits. Other aspects of the patients’
ventral inferior parietal lobe (IPL) lesions with associative cognition, including perceptual abilities and even other
semantic errors [37], which could fit with the notion that forms of memory (everyday episodic memory and short-term
the AG codes certain types of semantic information- or memory), were well preserved. Of course, semantic impairment
event-based relationships [35,38]. It is, of course, entirely can be found in a number of other ATL-related neurological con-
possible that both hypotheses are correct such that different ditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, herpes simplex virus
aspects of semantic cognition are tightly yet separately encephalitis, head injury and neurosurgery. Almost inevitably,
packed into the posterior temporal and IPL region. Future however, the semantic impairment in these disorders is: (i) less
studies are required to reveal the nature and location of func- pervasive than that observed in SD, and (ii) accompanied by
tions in this area. Indeed, there are many puzzles that remain. other deficits affecting episodic or short-term memory, attention,
These include the facts that: the exact relationship between executive and/or language processing—which makes the
semantic control and representation has not been simul- interpretation of impaired task performance harder given that
taneously mapped across this broader region; unlike other one or more of the deficits beyond the semantic impairment
parts of the semantic network, the AG is often deactivated, itself may contribute to the observed task dysfunction. By
yet differentially (less so for concrete than abstract, words contrast, the selective semantic degradation found in SD pro-
than nonwords, etc.), which makes interpretation of its vides not only a key feature for differential diagnosis in the
underlying function more complex [39]; and, also the obser- clinic [41] but also an unrivalled research opportunity to explore
vation that IPL regions are activated by numerous apparently ATL-based contributions to semantic representation [49].
different domains and tasks (including semantics, syntax, Detailed neuropsychological investigations have highlighted
episodic memory, theory of mind, attention, phonology, a plethora of insights about SD but two additional characteristics
praxis, etc.) and patients with lesions to this area often exhibit are important for this review. The first is that the semantic
deficits in some or all of these domains [14,40]. impairment is a graded phenomenon in which concepts and
