of tool use encourage the shift to upright gait in order to free use tools, and why humans became so dependent on them.
the hands from locomotion? By recording primary sensori- But, without input from the varied fields represented in
motor cortex responses to stimulation applied to individual this volume we are unlikely to resolve these issues at all.
fingers and toes in both monkeys and humans, the authors A critical addition to this point is that we need high-quality
report an interesting difference between the two species in research data from many more tool-using species: studies
their somatotopic representation of the digits. While both that aim to identify commonalities and differences between
species represent fingers as separate units, suggesting a groups or species—in terms of ecological drivers, general
likely adaptation to manual dexterity shared across the pri- cognitive or morphological prerequisites, or the role of
mate lineage, the mapping of the human foot appears to social learning—depend on such comparative data.

possess a derived feature. The fused representation of all We have stressed here the role of adaptation (i.e. repro-
five toes, as it occurs in monkeys, has been replaced in ductive advantage) as an ultimate explanation for tool use,
humans by a dedicated somatotopic representation of the acknowledging the fact that we cannot identify adaptations
big toe separate from the other four—a change hypothesized without first qualifying, and where possible quantifying,
to be associated with the shift to bipedalism. Comparative the variation on which natural selection may act. By taking
data, which the authors supplement with fossil evidence, such a broad approach, we hope that our volume has suc-
thus suggest that the manual dexterity supporting tool use ceeded in taking us a step closer to understanding tool use
had already appeared in the primate lineage prior to any sig- as adaptation.

nificant changes in locomotion among hominins, and thus

that neurological control of tool use among our ancestors Acknowledgements. We are grateful to the Royal Society for supporting

was not solely driven by the evolution of bipedalism. an International Scientific Seminar at which many of the authors of
As tools represent the direct interface between the animal this Theme Issue convened. We thank all authors for their contri-