children learning technical skills, most powerfully in joint multiple degrees of freedom inherent in using tools is more chal-
activity with other individuals [25]. Thus, the physical and lenging for non-human primates than for humans [19,39]. Thus,
social dimensions of the human-constructed ontogenetic we should expect that they need more practice than humans to
niche complement one another. Human cultural evolution rep- master a similar problem. Accordingly, situational features that
resents an extreme case of complementary physical and social motivate individuals to handle the relevant materials in the
niche construction [23,26,27]. right manner and in the right place may be particularly helpful

With respect to non-human animals learning traditional for non-human primates to learn to use a tool skilfully.
skills, observation of another's action in real time is usually posi- In considering the importance of supporting practice, it is
ted as the most powerful social influence, as exemplified by the worth noting that persistent practice is regarded as essential
phrase ‘demonstrator and observer’ commonly used in descrip- to developing expertise in humans [40]. Helton [41] shows
tions of social learning and designs of experiments on this topic that developing expertise (defined as proficient performance
[28] despite the fact that visual attention by the observer to the according to pre-established criteria) takes about 10% of the
behaviours of the demonstrator is rarely quantified. The prod- lifespan across a wide range of species (for example, termite
ucts of others’ activity have also been posited to be a source of fishing by chimpanzees, Pan troglodytes, living in Gombe,
support for social learning of certain skills [29-31]. Experimental Tanzania). Thus, technical skills such as tool use, which are
studies showed that encountering products, in the absence of at the boundaries of a species’ behavioural capabilities, are
others demonstrating the behaviour which produced the prod- expected to require a great deal of practice before the skill
ucts, does support learning to access mechanically difficult ‘pays off’ in delivery of benefits from performance.
foods (e.g. rats removing pine seeds from cones [32]; tits opening In this report, we examine recent evidence in support
bottle caps from milk bottles [33]). Japanese macaques living in of the hypothesis that enduring artefacts contribute to indi-
groups with stone-handling traditions (present in several areas viduals’ learning to use tools in non-human species by
of Japan [34]) preferentially handle stones that they encounter supporting persistent practice. Our data are drawn from
in piles, a by-product of others’ prior stone-handling activity, two species of non-human primates that habitually use
over stones randomly scattered in the landscape [35]. Leca et al. tools in natural settings: bearded capuchin monkeys (Sapajus