(usually) co-occurring characteristics of hooked stick tools, while achieving the same result with wide pandanus tools
namely tool-shaft curvature and an area of stripped bark. would require attendance to a single relatively subtle feature,
The finding that our subjects were sensitive to the proper- the directionality of small barbs [9]. Consistent with the idea
ties of hooked stick tools contrasts with results from an earlier that marked phenotypic polarity facilitates attendance to
study (see Introduction), in which birds appeared to pay little functional polarity, it has been shown that NC crows pro-
or no attention to the barbs on supplied wide pandanus tools, vided with non-hooked stick tools with an awkward lateral
often using them in the wrong (barb-non-functional) orien- extension at one end (wrongly identified as ‘hooked stick
tation [9]. To eliminate any conflict between potentially tools’ in a recent review [34]), generally chose to insert the
competing social (tool insertion) and non-social (barb orien- end without the extension [9].
tation) sources of information, a more thorough test would We found that our subjects could discriminate between three
have included the presentation of tools in a neutral (i.e. not distinct tool features (each of which contributes to the phenoty-
pre-inserted) orientation, as in treatment la of our study. pic polarity of the tool) and that these features affect tool-
Nevertheless, the results of the earlier experiment [9] contrast orientation decisions differentially. In fact, our subjects’ choices
with the findings from our (comparable) treatments 1b and followed a remarkably consistent hierarchy, with the hook
1c, strongly suggesting that NC crows’ attendance to the being generally preferred to tool-shaft curvature, which was in
key functional feature of wide pandanus tools is relatively turn preferred to stripped bark. We note that a preference for
weak. Given that both tool types are functionally highly curvature over the hooked end by a single subject, coupled
polarized (i.e. they must be inserted in a specific orientation with our modest sample size, led to non-significant results for
for the hook/barbs to function effectively) and that the fitness treatments 2b and 2c, in which (respectively) six of seven and

costs of incorrect deployment are likely to be similar, the seven of eight subjects used the hooked end. An additional


treatment would be required to determine whether stripped mollusc shells with different properties, but this does not
