variability in neural oscillators also results from ongoing cor- We also showed analytically that, in the presence of arbi-
tical activity (see [106,107] and references therein), which may trary frequency variability alone, the SBF model produces an
appears noisy simply because it is not synchronized with output that (i) has a Gaussian-like shape (based on the central
obvious stimuli. limit theorem, (ii) is accurate, i.e. the peak of the output is

A possible common ground for all interval timing models located at toy = T/(1 + yy), where yy <1 is a constant that
could be the threshold accommodation phenomenon that depends on the type of frequency noise and (iii) has a
allows stimulus selectivity [108,109] and promotes coincidence width dou. = T(1+-yr)oy that increases linearly with the cri-
detection [11]. Farries [110] showed that dynamic threshold terion time, i.e. obeys time-scale invariance property. In the
change in subthalamic nucleus (STn) that projects to the presence of Gaussian noise, the output function is analytic,
output nuclei of the BG allows STn to act either as an integra- asymmetric and Gaussian-like (figure 5a) with a skewness
tor for rate code inputs or a coincidence detector [110] that increases quadratically with the standard deviation of
(figure 2). Interestingly, under both conditions, faulty (noisy) the frequency noise (figure 5b). In addition to the fact that
processing explains time-scale invariance. For example, Killeen the standard deviation of the output function is proportional
& Taylor [28] explained scale invariance of counting in terms to the criterion time and, therefore, obeys the time-scale
of noisy information transfer between counters. Similarly, invariance property, it also increases quadratically with the
here, we explained time-scale invariance of timing in terms standard deviation of the frequency noise (figure 5d). For
of noisy coincidence detection during timing. Therefore, it Gaussian noise, the peak of the asymmetric, long-tailed
seems that when BG acts either as a counter or as coincidence Gaussian-like output (figure 5a) resembles experimental
detector, neural noise alone can explain time-scale invariance. data that show a strong long tail in subjects’ responses

Our theoretical predictions based on an SBF model show (figure 1c).
that time-scale invariance emerges as the property of a (very) Our results regarding the effect of noise on interval
large and noisy network. Furthermore, we showed that the timing support and extend the speculation [34] by which
output function of an SBF mode always resembles the Gaus- an SBF model requires at least one source of variance