auditory brain neurons from female crickets were obtained in response to call songs of the male cricket. Voltage traces from an auditory neuron in response to songs
with different pulse intervals. The three panels show traces obtained in response to songs where the inter-pulse interval was 5 ms (top), 15 ms (middle) and 60 ms
(bottom). This particular neuron exhibited selectivity to temporal patterns with an inter-pulse interval of 15 ms. (ii) Temporal tuning of neural responses (black) and
behavioural phonotactic (grey) responses obtained from three female crickets over a range of different pulse intervals (10-100 ms) (adapted with permission from
Kostarakos & Hedwig [60]).

and order selectivity have not been carefully examined but are dynamics and timing because they provide a tractable
broadly consistent with SDN models. approach to understand the underlying mechanisms. And
because, as mentioned, in vitro timing would provide
strong support to the notion that timing is a basic and general

4. Timing and neural dynamics in vitro computation of neural networks.
The fact that interval- and order-selective neurons have been
observed in a wide range of subcortical and cortical areas (a) Neural dynamics in vitro
across many species favours the notion that timing may be Several in vivo and in vitro studies have shown that the richly
a general and intrinsic property of neural networks. Perhaps interconnected circuits in the cortex exhibit complex dynamic
the most rigorous prediction of models that propose that patterns of activity [83-90]. This dynamics can be studied
timing is an intrinsic computation is that timing may be through intracellular recordings from single neurons, extra-
able to be observed in vitro. That is, if neural networks are cellular recordings from multiple neurons or multi-cell
indeed intrinsically capable of timing, it may not only be Ca*t-imaging; and methods have revealed that complex yet
possible to observe examples of timing in vitro, but also to, reproducible patterns of activity appear to be a general and
in a sense, ‘teach’ in vitro circuits simple temporal tasks. We widespread regime of recurrent neural circuits.
now discuss studies that have attempted to ask and answer In vitro whole-cell recordings in both acute and organotypic
this question experimentally. slices demonstrate that in addition to a short-lasting monosy-
These studies focus on examples of timing that may rely naptic EPSP, external stimulation can elicit long-lasting