carrying a truncated LTR of HK? [122]. Current high-throughput (b) Is immune escape of transmissible cancer related to
sequencing approaches are not expected to recover novel the evolutionary development of the trophoblast
somatic integrations (though some researchers have been ‘

able to recover rare integrations [50,52]), unless there is a sig- and the co-option of env genes?

nificant favourable bias for the novel integrations either Causality in cancer has been dogmatically connected with
owing to massive proliferation of the cell carrying the novel acquired mutations (and replicating HK2 elements can be con-
HK2 locus or through a novel experimental protocol which sidered simply as mutations that could lead to cancer).
would enrich the novel and deplete the fixed HK2 loci. A striking exception to this paradigm is transmissible cancer
With respect to the bioinformatics challenge, the difficulty (as distinct from cancer associated with viral infection), of
of mapping the high-throughput sequencing reads uniquely which two examples are known: canine transmissible venereal
and identifying breakpoints is compounded by the fact that tumour and the Tasmanian devil facial tumour. In both cases,
at least 50% of the human genome comprises repetitive the genomes of neoplasms from different hosts are clearly
regions. Longer, better and more reads per locus would more related to each other than to the genomes of the hosts in
help to establish which loci could be uniquely mapped which they are found [127-129]. Therefore, it is believed that
within highly repetitive elements. We expect that the recent these tumours are serially transplanted between individuals,
and forthcoming updates of high-throughput sequencing causing epidemics in dogs and Tasmanian devils.
technologies will be able to dramatically improve this The most exotic characteristic of transmissible cancer is
within 2013. that the infected individual’s immune system fails to identify

the transplanted cancer cells as foreign tissue (immune-toler-
ance to alloantigens) constituting a natural instance of
allogeneic transplantation [129]. Transmission of cancer in
