lea rning and map stabilization enable the interactions of cell assemblies linked to different envi-
The simplest form of spatial learning is related to the ability ronments. Although the most recently explored environment is
of the animal to recognize the degree of familiarity of an reactivated the strongest in sleep, other environments that the
environment, which is closely related to the recall of stable hip- animal might have visited, or will visit, are also reactivated
pocampal place maps. This ability to detect place-associated [25,30]. Therefore, sleep might provide a substrate for a wider
novelty has been suggested to involve the hippocampus process of consolidation in which different experiences are
[16,17]. Moreover, the ability of animals to recognize changes compared.
of spatial configuration, for example the misplacement of In terms of the sleep reactivation theory, the transfer of reac-
local object cues, requires the hippocampus [18]. Place cells tivated patterns to extra-hippocampal locations is a key step.
reorganize rapidly when the animal is placed into a new Can the extra-hippocampal transfer of place cell assembly pat-
environment: typically new place fields appear, existing place terns play a role in the strengthening of maps? The interrelated
fields disappear or move to different locations (for review: nature of place maps in the hippocampus and those occurring
[19]). This remapping of place fields leads to the formation of in the entorhinal cortex (EC) is increasingly recognized. In fact,
an entirely new representation of that environment. Impor- hippocampal place cell output is required for the normal
tantly, this map is reinstated later, when the animal is placed activation of grid cells in the EC [31]. Therefore, the reactiva-
back into the same environment. The successful reinstatement tion of hippocampal assemblies representing places could
of new hippocampal maps requires their stabilization, a process strengthen interrelated assemblies between the hippocampus
which is N-methyl-p-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent and the EC. This can potentially contribute to the tuning refine-
and requires protein synthesis [20,21], and long-term poten- ment of grid cell firing fields as the environment becomes more
tiation induction triggers the remapping of hippocampal familiar [32].
place fields [22]. Hence, the stabilization of newly formed Those SWRs that occur during waking exploration periods
maps in a novel environment is closely related to the ability have also been suggested to promote the stabilization of
of the animal to recognize this environment and this process place maps. They have drawn considerable interest because
requires circuit reorganization involving NMDA-dependent neuronal activity in these SWRs can be influenced by ongoing
synaptic plasticity. In order to examine whether SWRs play a place-related sensory inputs [33,34]. These exploratory-related