are therefore one cue used by the centrosome to break sym- feedback loop can also participate in symmetry breaking by
metry, but whether microtubules are the only cue is not helping to contract/expand the aPAR/pPAR domains. This
known. In particular, whether microtubules are responsible is best seen in ect-2 or nop-1 mutants. These mutants lack cen-
for cortical flows has not yet been demonstrated. Pericentriolar trosome-induced cortical flows and only form a small pPAR
proteins could also play a role, but it has been difficult to sep- domain during symmetry breaking (figure 3). Later during
arate a specific requirement for these factors from a general mitosis, the pPAR domain rapidly expands to half the cortex
requirement for microtubule assembly. One study also pro- [47,49]. Expansion coincides with activation of ‘late’ cortical
posed a role for CYK-4, a sperm-enriched Rho GTP flows that restrict myosin and aPARs to the anterior. As men-
activating protein (GAP) [42]; however, a CYK-4 mutant lack- tioned above, during mitosis, myosin regulation switches
ing GAP activity does not have a polarity phenotype [56]. from RHO-1 to aPAR/CDC-42. The aPAR/CDC-42 loop is
During cytokinesis, RhoA activity is regulated by a combi- responsible for the ‘late’ flows: depletion of par or cdc-42
nation of positive signals from the central spindle (CYK-4) activity blocks all flows in rho-1, ect-2 and nop-1 zygotes
and negative signals from the centrosomes /astral microtubules [47,52,56]. These observations indicate there are, in fact, two
(aster). The aster-pathway requires NOP-1 and is sufficient to types of cortical flows capable of mobilizing the aPARs: early
induce a transient furrow between the asters [56]. Remarkably, RHO-1-dependent flows that form during symmetry breaking,
NOP-1 is also required for centrosome-induced flows and for and late CDC-42-dependent flows that can be triggered during
the formation of a transient furrow during symmetry breaking mitosis. Either type is able to concentrate the aPARs to the
(pseudocleavage) [56,6264]. The parallels between aster- anterior half of the zygote. Only the RHO-1-dependent flows
directed furrowing and pseudocleavage suggest that the are able to break symmetry, because RHO-1 activity is sensitive
same mechanisms are used to inactivate RHO-1 near the to the position of the centrosome. CDC-42-dependent flows, in
asters during cytokinesis and symmetry breaking. contrast, cannot break symmetry on their own. Anterior-
The actin regulator Arp2/3 has also been implicated in directed CDC-42-dependent flows are only seen in zygotes
symmetry breaking. Arp2/3 nucleates a small population of that lack centrosome-induced cortical flows but that are still
F-actin in the posterior cortex [51]. Loss of Arp2/3 reduces able to load PAR-2 on the posterior cortex owing to its micro-
