and pPAR feedback loops are also required. Hypersensitivity symmetry breaking, the PAR boundary follows actomyosin
to PAR balance as predicted by the models has been observed flows into the cytokinetic furrow. Recent observations indi-
experimentally, but in embryos that lack centrosome-induced cate that PAR-3 and PAR~ are required partially redundantly
flows, the aPAR loop or the pPAR loop [47,49,69]. We suggest for successful cytokinesis and may play a role in spatial
that redundancy of symmetry-breaking inputs and the PAR organization of the cytokinetic furrow [82].
feedback loops buffer the network from imprecisions in the Another fascinating aspect of the PAR network is the abil-
aPAR/pPAR balance. Consistent with this view, a recent ity to self-correct. Wild-type embryos occasionally develop
study comparing synthetic polarity networks also concluded two pPAR domains, one near the centrosome and one near
that positive feedback loops increase robustness in networks the meiotic spindle remnant (also a microtubule-rich struc-
based on mutual inhibition [76]. Another oversimplification ture) [12,49]. As the domain near the centrosome expands,
in the models so far has been to assume that aPARs and the pPAR domain near the meiotic spindle resorbs.
pPARs behave as single, constant species that compete only Mutations that delay centrosome maturation and reduce the
by cortical exclusion. In fact, PAR proteins within each group strength of cortical flows allow the meiotic pPAR domain
are likely to make distinct contributions to the polarization pro- to be maintained for longer [60,83]. These observations
cess. For example, PAR-2 can neutralize the effect of PKC-3 on suggest that the system is able to respond to competing
the posterior cortex without displacing aPARs [20]. This and cues and ‘choose’ one, perhaps because of competition for
many other activities specific to each PAR protein will have limiting reagents.

to be considered to build more realistic models.

(e) Unsolved mystery: positioning the boundary 4. Common themes and future prospects

PAR domain dynamics stop when the aPAR/pPAR bound- A comparison of the C. elegans PAR network with the
ary reaches the middle of the zygote. How is that position network that mediate polarization of budding yeast high-
determined? As mentioned above, modelling analyses have lights some common themes and interesting differences.