line: fraction of fixations on animal/vehicle shape, when superimposed on foli- shaped for local modifications at random locations: if contrast
age image; grey solid line: data from experiment 1 (contrast-modified object) for is bound to an object, a contrast increase also increases fixation
comparison (same data as figure 3a without normalization). Note that the see- probability while a contrast decrease has little effect. If contrast
mingly weak effect in (6) when compared with figure 3a mostly results from is, however, not bound to an object (experiment 3), then the
different scaling of the axes; the normalization of figure 3a absorbs inter- V-shape re-emerges, even for rather subtle modifications.
image variance and enables qualitative comparison to the data of experiment Taken together, this suggests that local contrast modifications
2; all statistical analysis was, however, performed on the raw data. induce an object-like quality, which attracts attention, rather
than the contrast modification per se. When unrelated to an
the possibility that features common to both object categories actual object, these ‘shape-only’ objects compete with actual
(e.g. a bias of having the object in the centre and thus the objects (thus the larger V-shaped effect on foliage), while
‘shape-only’ object overlapping with the real object) explain when tied to an object, an increase in contrast increases fixation
the results. The benefit of tying shape and appearance is further probability by increasing the saliency of the object as such. At
supported by the fact that true objects, whether modified or not, the present stage, an alternative explanation is still conceivable:
draw consistently more fixations than even the strongest shape- negative modifications preserve the attractiveness of the object
only effect (figure 4b). The data of experiment 3 therefore not (even if contrast would be reduced to 0, the object would still
only reconcile the results of experiment 1 with previous find- be identifiable through its other features, in particular, colour
ings but also stress the importance of objects, when compared. contrasts), whereas the contrast decrease per se has little effect
with their mere low-level defined shape, for attracting attention. (unlike for the local modifications on greyscale images in Ein-

hauser & Konig [35] or the shape-only objects). With both
interpretations, however, our data provide further support to
an object-mediated effect of low-level features [37] and thus
for an object-based rather than a feature-based selection pro-

4. Discussion