determine the contribution of different microbial processes, creates systematic and irreproducible underestimation of
they have not yet been applied to distinguish between all Np» production by denitrification under aerobic incubation
known microbial sources of N2O simultaneously. For example, conditions [16,41,42,43]. However, most likely owing to its
the fractionation during nitrate ammonification has yet to be simplicity, the acetylene inhibition method is still used in
determined, and it may be that a combination of enrichment, studies and reported in literature. Besides the acetylene

natural abundance and isotopomer approaches coupled inhibition method, few methods remain that allow insights


into Nz and N2O production by denitrification: mainly the the stimulation of denitrification following an increase in 5 |

gas-flow helium incubation method [44,45] (see appendix, temperature by 10°C, exceeds the Qyy of soil CO, emissions
the electronic supplementary material) or the determination [52,53]. This fact can be attributed to a tight coupling between a
of labelled N2 following the application of '°N-labelled the microbial C and N cycle. Hence, NO emissions are not s
substrates [46]. only directly affected by temperature effects on enzymatic a
The electronic supplementary material, table S1, summar- processes involved in N2O production. Furthermore, temp- = 2
izes all available datasets where N2 emissions have been erature-induced increases in soil respiration lead to a Ss
either measured by '°N-labelling approaches or with the depletion of soil oxygen concentrations and to increases in S
gas-flow helium incubation method and which do provide soil anaerobiosis, with the latter being a precursor and a =
estimates for annual or seasonal Nz as well as N2O emissions. major driver. Also, the succession of several temperature- |S
Compared with the work by Schlesinger [47]—who also con- sensitive microbial processes within the nitrogen cycle, ©
sidered estimates of denitrification and N2 formation as which cascade reactive N compounds through its different 2
obtained by the acetylene inhibition method—it is obvious oxidation states (N-mineralization, nitrification; figure 2) pro- | =
from the electronic supplementary material, table S1, that viding the substrate for denitrification, leads to a multiplying &
for all soils from different ecosystems (forest, agricultural effect of temperature increase on N2O fluxes from soil. In =