Clearly, in contrast with this version of radical enactivism, hypotheses do make strong evolutionary claims as they
my proposal actually presupposes that social understand- deal with the phylogenesis of human cognitive functions,
ing—at least at a basic level—constitutively depends on challenging the strict adaptationism heralded by evolution-
the sub-personal representations in bodily format people ary psychology. According to my hypothesis, neural reuse
entertain of others’ actions, emotions and sensations. not only enables the cortical motor system to process and

I turn now to the relation among the MM, ES and neural integrate perceptual stimuli, hence instantiating novel cogni-
reuse. For quite a few years [85], I have advocated a role for tive functions, but also sheds new light on the phylogenesis
exaptation [91] as a key explanatory element of the phylogen- and ontogenesis of the vicarious experiences characterizing
esis of human social cognition. Exaptation refers to the shift human intersubjectivity.
in the course of evolution of a given trait or mechanism, Having clarified the notion of neural reuse here adopted, let
which is later on reused to serve new purposes and functions. us now address the apparent contradiction between the vicar-
According to this view, intentionality, the aboutness of our ious experience of others it supposedly enables and the fact
representations is—in the first place—an exapted property that neural reuse is also instantiated by macaques’ canonical
of the action models instantiated by the cortical motor and F4 neurons and by their human homologues. Does this
system (see [85], p. 34). The motor system not only houses entail that when looking at the coffee mug positioned on the
causative but also content properties. table within my arm’s reach I implicitly assign to it the status

I subsequently introduced the notions of ‘neural exploita- of another bodily self, or worse, that I identify with the coffee

tion’ and ‘neural reuse’ [92,93] to refer to the newly acquired mug? Does this mean that we do have a second-person


perspective of inanimate objects as well? Clearly this is not the
case, unless one subscribed to a sort of neo-Romantic panpsy-