ferred on the NMDAR by the GluN2A and GluN2B subunits important for short-term memory [125]. Thirdly, in the few
means the contribution of each subunit to charge transfer studies where the subunit knock-out is restricted to pyrami-
may vary according to the pattern of presynaptic activity, dal cells in the hippocampus, navigation systems may still
and therefore they may not play an equal role in potentiation be affected, and how that could interact with the cognitive
under physiological conditions. demands of short- and long-term memory tasks is not
Irrespective of the induction paradigm used, however, known. Fourthly, even localized manipulations have been
most evidence suggests that the GluN2B subunit has a greater chronic, and so compensatory mechanisms are likely to be
importance for LTP induction. An explanation for why recruited; it is conceivable that short-term memory requires
GluN2B can exert a strong influence on LTP in the adult hip- greater online processing power or rapid, large-scale network
pocampus, despite comprising a smaller proportion of GluN2 changes, either of which might need a higher level of Ca”*
subunits than early in development, would be if GluN2B sub- influx to drive them, and thus would be more sensitive to
unit-containing NMDARs carry more Ca** influx per unit of manipulations that reduce NMDARs and hence total Ca**
current [38]. An alternative explanation, which is more in influx. Finally, the fact that these manipulations also often
line with the prevailing evidence, is that GluN2B is particu- impair LTP does not necessarily imply a link between LTP
larly important for LTP induction because its presence at the and short-term memory, it only shows that both processes
spine anchors CaMKII at the PSD. Thus, GluN2B subunit- rely on NMDARs. Indeed, short-term potentiation also
containing NMDARs enable activation of the downstream requires NMDARs and may have subunit preference [9].
signalling cascades that mediate synaptic strengthening, irre- In some studies, it has been possible to relate a behavioural
spective of whether they support a majority of the Ca** impairment to a selective deficit in one direction of plasticity.
influx. This suggests that GluN2B is a necessary factor for In particular, there is evidence that the gradual acquisition
LTP induction under naturalistic conditions, but, importantly, and consolidation of information may be supported by the
whether or not it is sufficient to support the requisite Ca** GluN2B-CaMKII interaction, which is also important for
influx may depend on the pattern of presynaptic activity. LTP. Another common finding is that the mechanisms that
Moreover, although spine-based imaging studies and asym- support reversal learning may involve a GluN2B-dependent
metry studies have suggested that small spines, which tend LTD-like process. One caveat of studies relating learning