Figure 1. Binocular rivalry and a rivalry mimic condition. (a) During binocular rivalry, each eye views a different image, and transitions in dominance from one
image to the other often take the form of a wave whereby one image is swept from awareness by the other. (b) Many experimental designs also include a rivalry
mimic condition, where the perceptual experience reported during rivalry is approximated using on-screen replay. In the implementation devised by Blake & Fox [14]
illustrated here, two monocular images are alternately removed following a time series matching that actually reported on a previous trial of genuine rivalry
alternations. Mimic conditions provide a baseline that approximates what would happen during rivalry if perceptual suppression completely eradicated neural pro-
cessing of the suppressed image. A limitation of mimic conditions is that the perceptual match with real rivalry is only approximate. Notably, the dynamically
changing perceptual experiences accompanying wave-like dominance transitions are not captured by standard mimic conditions. (Online version in colour.)

time ————_»

In a related vein, the alternating monocular stimulation the build-up of pattern adaptation produced by rival gratings.
regime, illustrated schematically in figure 1b, was meant to Subsequent work has since taught us that suppression can, in
mimic what an observer experiences during genuine binocular fact, weaken pattern adaptation but that this weakening only
rivalry. For several reasons, we doubt whether this condition is shows up for adapter gratings of moderate to low contrast, as
sufficient for that purpose. First, neural events associated with a consequence of the saturating contrast dependence of pattern
suppression of a stimulus are certainly not equivalent to adaptation [38]. A more appropriate mimic condition for this
those associated with complete, intermittent removal of that form of adaptation, in other words, would be a monocular
stimulus—during suppression phases, evidence for traces of grating whose actual contrast was modulated over time
residual neural activity associated with the suppressed stimulus between one value and another, with the lower value matched
can found within early stages of visual processing as well as in to the effective contrast reduction associated with suppression.
higher tier visual areas [33-37]. At best, therefore, a rivalry Visual adaptation after-effects arising at higher visual stages
mimic condition can reveal the upper limit on the extent [25] are more likely to require greater attenuation in stimulus
to which rivalry suppression might squelch visual responses. strength to mimic an effect of suppression [39].

This nuance becomes particularly important if the dependent The second potential problem with the rivalry mimic con-