perceptual states, the most direct way is to compare measures inattention is a likely contributor to modulations that occur
obtained during dominance phases of a stimulus to those during perceptual suppression. What has proved more diffi-
obtained during suppression phases of that same stimulus, cult, however, is separating the effects of inattention from
so that the observer is viewing the same stimulus all along. those of perceptual suppression per se. In this context, we
This maximizes the likelihood that the stimulus conditions would like to discuss two instances where such a separation
during periods of awareness of a given stimulus match the has been claimed, but prematurely in our view. In one
stimulus conditions during periods of unawareness of that instance, observed changes in V1 fMRI response during per-
stimulus. Comparing measures obtained during suppression ceptual suppression were reported to be entirely due to
to those obtained during dominance is the strategy very inattention, with no influence of perceptual suppression
often employed in psychophysical studies using the so-called itself [6,53]. The second instance involves the opposite
test probe technique [46], and the strategy can also be claim, namely that a particular suppression-related effect, in
employed in concert with the adaptation procedure described this case the modulation of negative afterimages, cannot be
above, by capitalizing on the fact that rivalry state durations due to inattention, and must be due to perceptual suppres-
vary considerably during the course of extended viewing sion instead [23,54]. Interestingly, both these instances are
(e.g. fig. 5 in [23]; fig. 3 in [38]). Moreover, it is the comparison associated with a very similar experimental approach,
often used in neurophysiological investigations of binocular which we will discuss in more detail next.
rivalry [33,34], as well as in fMRI studies, in which the time The approach requires that an observer view a monocular
course of fMRI response modulation is compared with the stimulus that is either visible or suppressed in binocular

time course of perceptual dominance [35,47]. rivalry, and at the same time the observer must attend either


to the location of that stimulus or to another location else- the question of why the matching condition in their experiment 5 |

where. The approach, in other words, entails a two-by-two did not show the same result. A different study, co-authored by