
. . evant conscious experiences, as absence of evidence is no
2. Blindsight evidence of absence [9]. Nevertheless, the majority of cognitive
The concept ‘blindsight’ refers to a ‘visual capacity in the scientists today seem to share the conviction that perception
absence of acknowledged awareness’ in relation to a lesion to comes in two varieties: conscious and unconscious.

the primary visual cortex [3]. As blindsight is typically con-
ceived, it is, from the perspective of subjective experience,
identical to cortical blindness or hemianopia. However, from

a cognitive perspective it is quite different, as certain visual 3. Unconsciousness or vague experiences?

functions are preserved. It seems less important which exact One historically difficult issue for blindsight has been the fact
functions are preserved, it is rather the very segregation of that all or most blindsight patients have reported some vague
functional and phenomenal aspects of mental states that is experiences associated with the visual stimuli about which
central to the idea. they are asked to report [10,11]. Many blindsight researchers
In possibly the first experimental study on blindsight handle such reports by subdividing blindsight into ‘type 1’
(see, however [4,5]), Weiskrantz et al. [6] reported experiments and ‘type 2’, where ‘type 1’ are patients without any con-
with the now famous patient DB. DB was asked to shift his eyes scious experiences related to visual stimuli, whereas ‘type 2’
from a fixation point to the position where he would guess a are patients with conscious experiences related to visual
light was flashed. The experiment showed a weak correspon- stimuli. Such experiences are, however, not conceived as
dence between target position and eye movement. In a being of a visual nature [12].
second experiment, DB now had to reach for the target with Other experiments seem, however, to support a different
a finger instead of relying on eye movements alone. With this perspective. Overgaard et al. [13] performed a study on a
different method, results showed a very clear correspondence 31-year-old hemianopic patient with left-sided injury to pri-