for anticipating all types of regime shifts. Estimating such estimate ecosystem resilience (box 1). 2.
indicators in empirical data from drylands prone to desertifi- 3
cation did not yield expected patterns [30]. In marine =

ecosystems, despite some indirectly derived positive results 3. Not all regime shifts are announced by critical - =
[31-33], indicators of CSD largely failed to detect known

regime shifts [34]. slowing down indicators &
At first read these stories may appear contradictory, rais- CSD indicators are a promising tool because of their generic — 5
ing scepticism whether CSD indicators are coincidental or character [20]. Therefore, it is tempting to think that before =
idiosyncratic, and, thus, may have only limited value for any regime shift, one could measure a metric as simple as var- =
management purposes. Our attempt here is to help to avoid iance fingerprinting the upcoming event. Although a lot of -
potential misconceptions and misuses by offering possible regime shifts appear as critical transitions, the fact is that not 2
explanations to this conundrum. In particular, we suggest all regime shifts are associated with a bifurcation [1,18,39]. S
that application and identification of CSD indicators are Thus not all regime shifts are expected to exhibit CSD. There w
limited by at least three constraints is a plethora of mechanisms to explain a regime shift that 2
may not necessarily involve crossing a bifurcation [40]. For ©
— Conceptual. CSD detection depends to a great extent on instance, abrupt changes in patterns of environmental drivers, |S
whether the regime shift in question is a critical transition like the Pacific Decadal Oscillation variability, may have ©
and whether this transition is gradually approached. The caused big changes in North Pacific fisheries [13], although
ability to unequivocally identify an approaching regime similar shifts could also have been incurred by slowly drifting
shift is conditional on the underlying mechanism that (‘correlated’) climatic conditions alternating between extremes,
drives the shift. If such conditions are not met, misunder- or just stochastic events [41-43]. Such variability may have
standings and misuses of CSD indicators may arise. pushed plankton species in and out of their growth optima
— Operational. Operationalizing CSD identification crucially that shows up as a regime shift on the community level [44].