in complex systems provide stronger tests of potential drivers whether the apparent temperature influence is maintained at smaller
of regime shifts [43,57]. scales within this ecosystem. If so, it would suggest that water temperature

In an example of the potential power of spatial downscal- has the same mechanistic influence at small and large spatial scales (blue line
ing to elucidate the relative strength of drivers identified in in (a) and is therefore a general mechanism underlying spatially varying
comparative studies conducted at large spatial scales, Frank predator-prey correlations and the proposed differential resilience of ecosys-
et al. [40] compared and contrasted the nature of fish tems to restructuring under exploitation [40]. Alternatively, if the relationship
predator/prey in 26 data time series drawn from exploited is not maintained (red dashed line in (a)), the proposed mechanism would
ecosystems spanning the North Atlantic. Clear geographical Not be general.
variation in the strength and sign of the predator—prey corre-
lation was evident. Strong positive correlations diagnostic of
resource-controlled dynamics in exploited systems (and the northern cold water/species-poor ecosystems being more
expected baseline configuration in unexploited systems: see prone to such perturbations. The fact that water temperature
also [39]) dominated ecosystems characterized by relatively and species richness covaried, and other interpretations are
warm waters and high species richness. By contrast, strong possible [43] confounds a full understanding of the primary
negative correlations (diagnostic of predator-controlled top- drivers and calls for further exploration of the relative role
down dynamics and prey outbreaks) dominated in relatively and the generality of influence of these respective drivers at
cold, species-poor ecosystems [40] (figure 4a). These strong smaller spatial scales.
among-system differences suggest a gradient in the relative Similar context-dependent variations in the sign and
resilience of these ecosystems to trophic restructuring that strength of predator-prey correlations have been observed

in some cases has been tied to regime shifts [31], with at smaller spatial scales within the North Sea. There, prior to


the 1970s, temporal correlations between phytoplankton/