duction targets for marine resource extraction. Although we regime shift analysis. Fisheries-dependent data have also
were unable to obtain the detailed fisheries goals in historical been part of several of the original regime shift analyses,
FYPs, the close association between several examples of dra- which may bias the results. The important role of Soviet fishing
matic expansions of distant water fishing with changes in in marine ecosystems worldwide specifically illustrates the
such plans, suggests a well-developed capacity for centralized importance of accurate catch statistics. There are arguments
control of global expansion. to suggest that there were incentives for both the over reporting
Soviet fishing played a major role in LMEs where fishing and under reporting of Soviet catches [32]. The profession of
has been described as an important anthropogenic driver of Soviet fisherman or woman attracted qualified personnel
regime shifts (figure 2 and electronic supplementary material, [39], but catch records suggest evidence of a remarkably ineffi-
table S2). Although we found that there was a significantly cient fishing fleet, when compared with per capita production
higher proportion of Soviet fishing in LMEs with regime figures for Japan or the USA [39]. It is unknown whether
shifts, we conclude that to test whether a high proportion such low productivity figures can be explained by systematic
of Soviet fishing was in fact positively associated with a under reporting of fish catches, similar to official misreporting
higher probability of regime shifts would also require testing of Soviet whale catches [49]. The extent of suspected significant
‘or presence or absence of regime shifts in all LMEs, an analy- Soviet under reporting from, for example, Africa and South
sis that is currently unavailable. Our exploratory analysis America [50] is not known, but a catch reconstruction of
based on available data on the globalization of fisheries Soviet fishing activities in the Baltic Sea does not suggest any
is thus insufficient to establish a clear link between Soviet difference between officially reported catches and recon-
ishing and marine regime shifts. Nevertheless, we have structed catches [51]. Misreporting of large actors, such as the
established that the Soviet Union indeed was a key fishing Soviet Union historically (in relation to whaling), or China
actor in all LMEs where regime shifts have been documented. more recently [26,52], illustrates the global relevance of

Further analysis, including species-specific biomass removals accurate data from such major actors.

