
narrative representation [40]. Interestingly, many of the children, gesture use at 14 months can be explained by parent gesture | 4 |

even at age 5, did take a character’s viewpoint into account in use at 14 months, even when parent speech is controlled.
their gestures. For example, to describe a woodpecker’s actions, Importantly, parent gesture does not appear to have a direct a
one child moved her upper body and head back and forth, thus effect on subsequent child spoken vocabulary—the effect is s
assuming the perspective of the bird (as opposed to moving a mediated through child gesture, suggesting that it is the act of a
beak-shaped hand back and forth and taking the perspective gesturing on the part of the child that is critical. 2.
of someone looking at the bird, a skill that appears later in Although these findings suggest that child gesture is play- Ss
development [2]). Moreover, the children who produced ing a causal role in language learning, we need to manipulate S
character-viewpoint gestures at age 5 were more likely than gesture to be certain of this claim. Previous work has found =
children who did not produce these gestures to go on to tell that telling 9- and 10-year-old children to gesture when = $
well-structured stories (as measured by the narrative structure explaining how they solved a math problem does, in fact, ©
coding system developed by Stein & Glenn [41]) in the later make them particularly receptive to subsequent instruction — >>
years, even controlling for early syntactic skills and initial level on that problem—the gesturing itself appears to be responsible © =
of narrative structure. Children were thus able to use gesture for their improved performance after instruction [44]. As yy
to take on a character’s perspective before being able to do so another example more relevant to language learning, LeBarton 2
in speech, and those early gestures signalled upcoming develop- et al. [45] studied 15 toddlers (beginning at 17 months) in an &
ments in their spoken narrative production. Gesture thus eight-week at-home intervention study (six weekly training a
continues to act as a harbinger of change as it assumes new sessions plus follow-up two weeks later) in which all children w
roles in relation to discourse and narrative structure. were exposed to object words, but only some were told to point |
at the named objects. Before each training session and at |S
. . . follow-up, children interacted naturally with their parents to 3
(b) The mechanisms underlying gesture’s role in establish a baseline against which changes in communication he
