For instance, there are numerous studies with adults demon- determine the properties of the form—meaning mapping for a
strating that nonsense words such as bouba and kiki are found broad and representative set of words in English. Previous
to reliably relate to rounded and angular objects, respectively studies have focused on a single measure of sound and of
(see [21] for review). However, Ozturk et al. [22] demonstrated meaning and have assessed only subsamples of the vocabulary.
that four-month-old children have a similar preference, indi- We sampled all the monosyllabic words in English for the ana-
cating that substantial knowledge about language is not lyses. Monosyllabic words constitute 70.9% of all word uses in
required in order to form these preferences. Similarly, English [34], and so confining analyses to just these words is a
Walker et al. [23] showed that three- to four-month-old infants reasonable approximation to the whole vocabulary. To ensure
were able to form cross-modal correspondences between that the limitation to monosyllabic words did not adversely
spatial height and angularity with auditory pitch, demonstrat- affect the results, we also gathered a corpus of all monomorphe-
ing that cross-modal correspondence preferences can precede mic words of all lengths (we refer to this in the following as
substantial language learning rather than being a consequence polysyllabic). However, we assume that language processing
of the fact that a particular language instantiates these and language acquisition are influenced by the frequency
correspondences [24]. with which words occur in the linguistic environment, and so
Yet, we have seen that systematicity in sound—meaning caution must be taken to ensure that the many long multisylla-
mappings in the vocabulary comes at a cost in terms of redu- bic words that occur very rarely in language [35] do not skew
cing the distinctiveness of words that have similar meanings, the results towards a non-representative subsample of the voca-
potentially increasing confusion over intended meaning bulary. Furthermore, this study examines the robustness of the
[9,13]. So, given this tension between the linguistic con- observed sound—meaning mapping to different represen-
vention of arbitrariness and the growing body of studies tations of sound and meaning, to ensure that estimates of
demonstrating sound symbolism in language and _ its systematicity or arbitrariness of the vocabulary are not prone
proposed importance for early language acquisition, the to a particular interpretation of sound or meaning similarity.
long-standing question remains open as to how arbitrary The second aim of this study was to examine the con-
language actually is. Are the observed systematic clusters, tribution of individual words to the overall system of
such as phonoaesthemes, merely a ‘negligible fraction’ [25] form—meaning mappings. This enables us to determine