infant-controlled sequential preferential looking paradigm, cussion). As voiced consonants have a shorter voice onset
infants were presented with one of two words (‘bubu’ and time, vocal cord vibration starts earlier and voicing is sustained
‘kiki’) and one of two shapes (a rounded shape and a for a longer duration than their voiceless counterparts. Nasal
spikey shape). Results showed that infants looked longer at consonants can be prolonged without a change in quality.
the sound-symbolically mismatching shape than the match- The longer voicing duration involved in these consonants
ing one. By contrast, Forte et al. [67] conducted a series of and their non-turbulent nature appear to be readily mapped
experiments with French-learning five- and six-month-olds, to the long duration of slow motion. Thus the sound—meaning
who failed to show sensitivity to Kohler’s sound symbolism associations shared by Japanese and English may be accounted
[26]. Here, in a simultaneous preferential looking paradigm, for by our common bodily experience with articulation (see
infants were presented with a novel word (e.g. ‘buba’ or also [78]) or audition.
‘kite’) along with two shapes side by side, one of which These similarities do not mean that English and Japanese
was rounded and the other spikey. There was no significant speakers always mapped sounds and meanings in the same
difference in looking times for the two objects. It is not way, however. In fact, even though the two languages used
clear why Ozturk et al.’s [66] and Fort et al.’s [67] results dif- the same sound properties on the same semantic dimensions,
fered, but the discrepant results suggest that the effect of this the directionality of the sound—meaning mapping was some-
type of sound symbolism in this age group may be fragile. times reversed (see [75] for a relevant finding). For example,

the affricate manner of articulation (e.g. the palato-alveolar
affricate [t{]) was associated with light motions in Japanese,
but with heavy motions in English. These disagreements

4, Development of language-specific versus may be explained by the cross-linguistic differences in the
. : phonological status of these sounds. For example, in Japa-
universal sound symbolism nese, the phone [t§] often appears secondarily, as a result of
There has been an assumption in the literature that sound the palatalization process (in a context such as /ty/), whereas