inal molecular biologists’ casual and faulty analogy with than biological evolution; lately, it has gotten so fast that bio-
Morse code!), it is now understood by molecular biologists logical evolution is effectively stationary by comparison
as the process by which DNA symbol strings are turned into (there is precious little ‘nature untouched by humans’ left).
phenotypic protein meanings. The faster speed of cultural, language-based evolution is lar-

The problem of the origin of such a system, however, is not gely attributable to the fact that cellular symbols strings
really an evolutionary problem in the usual Darwinian sense of (DNA and RNA) are comprehended (turned into protein
the word. If we shrink ourselves down to molecular size and meanings) but never produced from meanings; cells instead
look at what cells do, it becomes clearer that cells somehow have to wait a long time for favourable mutations to occur.
invented a new kind of molecular-level intentionality—a way Human language, by contrast, is a more dynamic, free-for-
to partly overcome the deterministic thermodynamic buffetings all, two-way system in which people willy-nilly inject
to which all matter is subject. This does not imply that cells mental-reaction-controlling speech symbol streams into each
create mysterious, irreducible holistic forces; in fact, we have a other’s brains [13]. The great difference in effective evolution-
deep mechanistic understanding of how they work. But it is ary velocity has made it difficult for transient language- and
a natural way of characterizing what goes on in cells that culturally-transmitted memes to be fixed in the much more
distinguishes it from the prebiotic chemical cycles in the slowly evolving genomes of long-lived humans. Despite
atmosphere, in volcanism, exposed mountain ridges and their great reach and elegant variation, humans are much
sedimentation in rivers, shores, down to the ocean floor, all more genetically similar to each other than even small local
of which involve an energy-dissipating, order-creating, but populations of most other animal species.
non-biological kind of ‘evolution’. But there is one great point of interaction between the

The chemical soups out of which life arose were already DNA-based genetic system and the language-based human
complex systems containing many different types of dynami- cultural system—the genetic basis of the peculiar human abil-
cally stable units. For example, it is thought that among other ity to readily learn a language. It seems seductively natural to
things, prebiotic soups contained isolated amino acids, the try to come up with Darwinian evolutionary explanations for