eventual constituents of biotic protein chains. Cells, however, why this might have occurred, in the spirit of evolutionary
invented a way to encode, use and reproduce information psychology. By contrast, I think we may be able to make
about how to cause thousands of different chemical reactions more progress by considering the origin of language as essen-
in this soup to happen. The tricky part is that the code strings, tially a pre-evolutionary problem—that is, as the second
as well as all of the interpreting apparatus for them, had to be origin of a symbol-using, and evolution-supporting system,

in the soup where everything was still subject to the soup’s one that partly relies on DNA-based symbols for its


construction and persistence, but that is largely decoupled discovered to fold up and catalyse RNA-splicing). The foun-

from biological evolution in its form and content. dational role of RNA is obvious from observing its current
In fact, human language might best be thought of as a position in cells (recent review: [28]).
brain operating system that allowed us to partly overcome Unlike other components of the cell, RNA can act either as
the constraints on the Darwinian biological evolution of be- a one-dimensional symbol string (messenger RNA) or as a
haviour in much the same way that cells have partly three-dimensional self-folding controller of chemical reac-
overcome the deterministic constraints on the ‘evolution’— tions (structural RNAs, based on the protein-like ability of
now in the physicist’s sense of ‘the evolution of a dynamical RNA to form precisely shaped surface cavities with high
system’—of prebiotic soups. From this analogical perspective, specificity for particular substrates). This crucial Janus-like
the origin of language may have involved the reinvention of ability is used sparingly; modern cells mostly employ pro-
the trick of hiding information ‘in plain view’ from the dissi- teins, not RNAs, to control and catalyse the thousands of
pative attack of the ‘soup’. But this time, the ‘soup’ consisted chemical reactions they run. The instances where RNA is
of Darwinian constraints on the evolution of animal behav- used as a protein-like structure, however, stand at the very
iour. Instead of using Darwinian evolution to explain centre of code-use in cells, including (i) RNA editing (in the
language, our goal is to see how the origin of language nucleolus, which generates ribosomes, and in the spliceo-