The origin of language required the development of a things in the world that are not information or even proto- &
large inventory of sound combinations in order to code for information because there is no way to access the strings in a
thousands of meanings that are made more specific by assem- them, or because they do not even form one-dimensional w
bling them into strings at the rapid rate of several words per strings at all (like disconnected gas molecules). In contrast |
second. Individual word meanings—especially for high- to usual language origin scenarios that start with single |S
frequency polysemous words central to every language, meaningful Saussurean sign—object pairs, the perspective 3
such as ‘over’, ‘put’, ‘give’, ‘line’, ‘big’ or ‘hand’—are freed here is to look instead for plausible sources of proto-infor-  &
from emotion when compared to animal calls. Certainly, mation strings—currently unused, meaning nothing, but
some single words such as epithets can be intrinsically emot- potentially usable. Good quality proto-information should be
ive, but these are in a small minority. Perhaps, the difficulty random-appearing, like efficient Shannon information,
of imagining a path from a handful of emotive calls to the which requires the ability to attach symbol segments into
5000-word core of mostly emotionally neutral words in one-dimensional strings in roughly random orders. But just
human language stems from the fact that the two are phylo- as critically, there needs to be a pre-existing productive mech-
genetically unrelated. The analogy with the RNA world and anism for generating and processing these one-dimensional
the pre-RNA world suggests that perhaps we should instead strings in plain view, so they could eventually be integrated
try to find a way by which a large pool of pre-RNA-like pre- into a meaning delivery system, but with their content
words might have been generated—units that are like words initially hidden because of their apparent randomness.
in many sensory and motor respects, but that do not yet stand Strong one-dimensional chains (of nucleotides, amino acids
for anything. and saccharides) are what principally physically distinguish
In the cellular situation, the bonds between any pair the current biotic molecular world from the prebiotic world
of RNA nucleotides in a chain are approximately equally of rocks and minerals. These chains are held together by
stable. In Sereno [13], I called this arbitrariness, (to distin- strong covalent bonds in aqueous solution. Rocks and minerals
guish it from classical pairwise symbol—object Saussurean are certainly stronger than biomolecules when dry; but once
arbitrariness;). Arbitrariness; can be thought of as a trick to dissolved in water (where all the action is), the chains and lat-
prevent the prebiotic soup from recognizing and thus selec- tices in rocks and minerals all break down into small pieces.