other than language compared with those labelled as ‘non-verbal vocal sounds’ and ‘noise’. ‘Words’ were as corre- © =
language (71% versus 29%, y* = 28.20, d.f.=1, p-value < lated with the network as much as ‘none’, i.e. no stimulus 8.
0.0000001). The follow-up analysis showed similar results presentation (see table 2b for correlation values). The difference Ss
with 108 (66%) of contrasts not using and 56 (34%) using in correlation between ‘non-vocal sounds’ and ‘words’ is Ss
meaningful linguistic stimuli (y? = 16.49, d.f. = 1, p-value < r= 0.66. By all statistical tests comparing two overlapping =
0.00005). correlations based on dependent groups of this size, even ‘5

when estimating a high correlation between groups, this {‘°
difference is highly significant (see, e.g. library(cocor) [53] ©

(ii) Analysis 2: passive listening in R, http://www.1-project.org/). =
Analysis 1 is limited because the TTG may be active despite yy
the fact that locations are not explicitly reported there. For 2
example, a reported peak location might be near but not in (iii) Analysis 3: speech, phonology, syntax and semantics a
the TTG though the (unreported) centre of mass is in it. Perhaps the passive listening results from analyses 1 and 2 are R
Thus, when the peak is given a three-dimensional probability somehow contingent on the criterion that there be no explicit ee
distribution as part of the ALE analysis, the TTG activity task (e.g. maybe participants pay more attention to non- | ©
would manifest if it converges across experiments. In this sec- words). Therefore, further meta-analyses were done in which 8
tion, therefore, the location constraint is removed. It is participants often performed explicit (e.g. meta-linguisticjudge-  S
predicted that passive listening to words will engage the PST ment) tasks that engage attention to stimuli. These task-based Ss
regions (including the TTG) less than less meaningful non- studies typically have a matching effort/attention control,
words. Passive listening was chosen because it is a natural theoretically removing this effect from the data during analysis.
task that uses a relatively homogeneous set of stimuli that It was hypothesized that PST regions would, nonetheless, still be
should engage AC and does not explicitly involve differential less activated in studies described as being in the behavioural
task demands. It was also predicted that PST regions form an domain of syntax or semantics compared with less meaningful