Our first expression for inclusive-fitness change was work could certainly consider the effect of territorial expansion,
equivalent to one previously developed by Pen & Weissing and based on recent work on helping in a homogeneous popu-
[11]. It was based on a model in which normal offspring lation [24] we expect that such a modification would simply
are unable to condition dispersal on parental survival. Of promote the emergence of cooperative breeding. For now,
course, an inability to modify dispersal to respond to local though, our second result puts Gaston’s idea into a clear
breeding opportunities may simply be owing to the fact theoretical context.
that natal dispersal occurs prior to any parental mortality Surprisingly, we found that, despite the occurrence of kin
event. In any event, territory inheritance in the first scenario competition, helping in model II was predicted to occur
is only possible for those offspring who also opt to help. under a broader range of ecological conditions than it was
Our second expression for inclusive-fitness change corre- in model I (we stress that this is entirely consistent with our
sponded to a model in which normal offspring disperse only claim that kin competition in the second model is, most
when there is no opportunity to take over a territory vacated often, costly). Broader support for helping in model II
following parental death. Consequently, the second expression occurs for two basic reasons. First, the fact that territory
included a term that described the effect of local interactions inheritance did not require help in model II also meant that
among kin—a term not found in the expression developed a normal population could achieve stable numbers under a
by Pen & Weissing [11]. We found that it is possible for local broader range of ecological conditions. In other words,
interactions among kin to yield an inclusive-fitness benefit, there were simply more normal populations available to be
for example when the help received by an offspring is out- invaded under model II. Second, the net benefit of helping
weighed by any risks that might come from that offspring in model II is simply larger than it was under model I. Of
being displaced from its birthplace. However, we also found course, this second point is rather facile, and luckily we can
the region of parameter space over which these net benefits point to one key fitness driver: the mortality cost of helping.

might be realized to be quite small. It is more likely, in our As we have seen, a helper who dies in model I reduces its

