brain responses concomitantly within a given experimental periods of an acoustic waveform [103,105,106]. As only a
design could provide insight into this view [100,101]. small number of repetitions of the period is necessary to per-

ceive pitch, similarly only a small number of repetitions of a
meter is sufficient to induce a meter percept, thus revealing

(b) Retrieving time resolution and phase from steady- the stability of this percept. Also, the nervous system is tolerant
state evoked potentials to perturbation or deterioration of this periodicity, as period-
The frequency-tagging approach may appear to be an electro- icities can be perceived from stimuli that are not strictly
physiological method that lacks time resolution, as the elicited periodic in reality, suggesting that percepts of periodicity are
activities are identified in the frequency domain rather than in supported by invariants abstracted from non-periodic inputs.
the time domain. However, it may offer the possibility to study This property of the auditory system has been hypothesized
the frequency tuning function corresponding to a given stimu- to emerge from the fact that most natural sounds are not strictly
lation. The frequency tuning function is thought to give an periodic, either within the frequency range of meter or within
indication of the ‘sampling rate’ of a given neural network, the frequency range of pitch [1,103,107].
i.e. not only the latency to process a single input but also the Stability, tolerance and invariance in periodicity perception
timing necessary between successive inputs to be processed. might result from nonlinear transformations of the sound’s
This concept was used in Nozaradan et al. [39] to reveal the res- spectral content at various levels of the auditory pathway
onance frequencies thought to shape musical beat and meter [104,107]. This is illustrated for example by the missing funda-
perception. By showing that the selective enhancement of the mental phenomenon, in which a pitch can be induced at a
neural response at frequencies corresponding to the perceived given frequency although this frequency is not conveyed in
beat and meter occurs within a specific frequency range, the the sound input in reality. Similarly, a beat percept can be
results of this study suggest that beat and meter perception is induced by a rhythmic pattern at a frequency that is not present
supported by entrainment and resonance phenomena within in the sound envelope, as illustrated in highly syncopated
the responding neural network [16]. thythms [108,109].