inhalation and exhalation constitute the breathing cycle, a fundamental rhyth-
mic unit of our organism. At rest, breathing cycles are relatively regular and

qs” Royal Society Publishing
a © 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


symmetrical with respect to the duration of inhalation and between listeners and speakers. This suggests that respiratory | 2 |

exhalation phases and to the volume of the air inhaled and rhythm is sensitive to speech stimuli, and probably to atten-
exhaled. This profile changes during speech production, tion or mental effort [25,26], but that listeners may not a
based on the involvement of specific neural networks to coordinate their breathing with speakers’. This result could s
control the respiratory muscles [10,11]. be due to the fact that pure listening tasks require neither a
When we speak, we take short and fast inhalations (which direct interaction nor joint action. 2.
last half a second, on average). We then exhale slowly, for Few studies have characterized inter-personal coordination Ss
several seconds, in synchrony with the speech flow. This of breathing in joint activity involving vocal production. Bailly S
gives speech breathing its well-known asymmetrical profile et al. [27] investigated synchronization in breathing in male and =
[12-14]. Breathing cycles in speech are also irregular: the female dyads, during three reading conditions with increasing ‘5
depth and duration of inhalation and exhalation vary as a constraints on coordination: reading paragraphs in alternation, ©
function of the utterance produced over the course of the reading sentences in alternation and synchronous reading. — >
exhalation phase. Longer utterances involve longer exhala- The strongest in-phase coordination profile was found during © =
tion, and also tend to be preceded by longer and deeper synchronous reading. Reading sentences in alternation led yy
inhalations [15-21]. In addition, inhalation pauses are coordi- to an anti-phase coordination of breathing, while reading 2
nated with the linguistic structure of the text: speakers mainly paragraphs in alternation did not reveal consistent overall &
take breaths at syntactic boundaries. Moreover, the volume coordination. Muller & Lindenberger [28] studied inter-per- a