The upper part of table 1 displays the distribution of turns We first contrasted the duration and asymmetry of the
according to number_of_cycles. Butting-in attempts were breathing cycle during listening with all cycles related to
always realized on a single breathing cycle. More than half speaking events (figure 4). During listening phases, breathing
of the subjects’ smooth and interruption turns were also rea- cycles were shorter than during spoken phases (f= 21.8,
lized within a single breathing cycle. Approximately 80% of pMCMC < 0.001). In addition, less asymmetry was observed
all smooth and interruption turns included less than four in listening phases in comparison to spoken phases (f = 44.6,
breathing cycles. PpMCMC < 0.001). This is visible in figure 4, which represents

The bottom part of table 1 displays the distribution of turns the position of inhalation onset relative to the whole cycle
according to speech_position. Note that it was possible for (horizontal lines superimposed on each bar).
values of speech_position to be either positive or negative, Breathing cycles were then split into those at turn-taking
with negative values corresponding to turns starting during (smooth, interruption, butting-in) and those occurring inside
the inhalation phase. However, these negative values in fact a turn (turn-holding). Breathing cycles at turn-taking varied
represented approximately 5% of the turns and were greater in duration according to the type of turn. When butting-in,
than —0.08 (except for a single value that was excluded from breathing cycles were shorter than for smooth or interruption
the analyses). Hence, the range of values smaller than 0.25 rep- turns (all comparisons f > 2.8, pMCMC < 0.01). In other
resents turns that started close to the onset of the exhalation words, when subjects took a breath and tried to take the
phase. The results show that turns were mostly taken in this turn but failed, they shortened their breathing cycle. Conse-
early range (more than 50% of the observations were in a quently, breathing cycles for butting-in were also less
range smaller than 0.25, regardless of the turn type, and asymmetrical than when taking the turn successfully (all

more than 60% for the smooth and interruption turns). comparisons f > 2.1, pPMCMC < 0.05).


6- to the fact that butting-in turns were less prepared, resulting | 8 |