exchange. Our analyses of a corpus of eleven subjects talking © 4

Figure 4. Average duration of subjects’ breathing cycle (bars) when talking successively with two partners show that: (i) at a global level, R

with Partner 1 (S.P1) and Partner 2 (S.P2), according to the type of cycle (see when the overall conversation is considered regardless of the se

text for details). The position of inhalation offset relative to the whole cycle activity, turn-taking rate and breathing rate are not strongly Ss

duration is superimposed on each bar. Vertical lines indicate standard errors. related, and breathing cycles are not systematically coordinated 8

(Online version in colour.) between subject and partner; (ii) breathing is, nevertheless, |S

actively involved in turn-taking. This is visible in the fact that ‘S
When turn-holding, breathing cycles were generally most successful turns were taken just after a new inhalation.
shorter than when turn-taking (f= 4.0, pMCMC = 0.001). The relation between inhalation and turn-taking suggests that
Owing to a clear reduction of the inhalation phase, turn- speakers coordinate breathing to turn-taking; (iii) the average
holding cycles were also more asymmetrical than turn-taking duration of a turn can be expressed in terms of the number of
ones (t= 9.8, PMCMC < 0.001). These results suggest that inhalation pauses, with more than half of turns realized on a
speakers reduced inhalation duration inside a turn, which single breathing cycle and 80% of the turns occurring after
could preserve their turn by indicating to their interlocutor less than three inhalation pauses. When occurring inside a
that they have not finished speaking. turn, inhalations were shorter than when starting a new turn,
The properties of breathing cycles over the different suggesting that subjects also adapt their breathing to hold
events of the dialogues described above were in general simi- turns. These results shed new light on the relationship between
lar when participants spoke with Partners 1 and 2. However, turns and breathing in unconstrained dialogue and will be
