latter part of the partner’s exhalation phase. For smooth breathing imitation or coordination observed between listeners
and interruption turns, distributions were different from the and speakers in previous work [23-26].
uniform and surrogate distributions (p < 0.02 in all cases), McFarland [8] did not provide a global analysis of inter-
showing that there was indeed a non-random pattern of align- personal coordination of breathing, nor of the relationship
ment. The distribution for butting-in was sparser and not between breathing and turn-taking rates. However, using
significantly different than the uniform distribution, which cross-correlation on a time-window around turn transitions,

could be due to the smaller number of observations and also he found in-phase or anti-phase coordination between


speakers. This coordination was particularly in evidence and more asymmetrical than cycles at the start of a turn. This

when laughing or speaking simultaneously. Our analyses could be explained by the fact that when subjects needed to
used a finer categorization of turn-taking, based on pragmatic inhale but wanted to keep the turn, they took more rapid inha-
function. Even though our analyses of synchronization were lations in order to reduce pauses and prevent the other speaker
limited to the labelling of the breathing cycle and were not from taking the turn. When taking a breath and taking the
continuous, they provide further evidence of inter-personal turn successfully, breathing cycles were similar in duration
temporal coordination of breathing at turn-taking. In particu- and asymmetry for smooth turns and interruptions. When
lar, we provided evidence that successful interruption rested butting-in, however, the breathing cycle was shortened in com-
on a clear anticipation of inhalation. This appeared as a clear parison to successful interruptions, suggesting that subjects
peak in the coordination index, with inhalation onset starting quickly reverted to a listener role when their attempt to take
at approximately 70% of the interlocutor’s breathing cycle. the turn failed.
The profile for the coordination index did not show a com- The current study involved only female speakers conversing
parably high peak when a turn was taken smoothly, but a with two different partners. Subjects and partners exchanged
tendency to start inhalation in the last part of the exhalation dialogue in a cooperative fashion, both being actively involved