
Arguing that speech is actually antirhythmic by virtue of equivalent of ‘Johnny’ and ‘Pamela’, (coni (‘Johnny’) wa (‘and’)
such design features as syntagmatic contrast and length- phameylla (‘Pamela’), /teoniwa p'amella/) both associations (i)
based oppositions, and that it is therefore rhythmical only in and (ii) (equivalent to (ii) and (iii) in figure 1a) are well formed
a metaphorical sense, does not mean abandoning the quest and are equally comfortable for a Korean speaker. The languages
to understand the relation of speech to rhythm; instead, it clearly show a difference of strategy with respect to musical
requires some re-framing of research questions about the association, and so the research question is what the distinct
rhythm of a particular language as questions about how the properties of different languages are which can be recruited to
metaphor is applied, for instance, how it is that speech can fulfil the application of the rhythm metaphor.
be aligned in non-arbitrary ways to fundamentally rhythmic Surely, though, such alignment is a matter of fitting one
phenomena such as a metronome (as in speech cycling exper- rhythm to another? Maybe Korean utterances just contain
iments, e.g. [76—78]) and of course, par excellence, music (we two competing rhythms, either of which can be aligned
ignore here the fact that performance styles, expressivity, and with the music. But it need not be the case that when we
the like may cause minor deviations from strict tempo). In fit one thing to a second which is rhythmic the first must
speech cycling, speakers repeat a short utterance in time with also be rhythmic. Imagine an archaeologist finding an
repeating tones in experiments which are commonly periodic unbound ancient manuscript 10 inches (in.) thick. It is in a
like metronome clicks, but the organization of the tones can completely unknown language and writing system. To pro-
vary as in a sequence of high-low-high-low-... or a waltz tect and preserve it for transport, we have to fit it into a
rhythm [76-78]. This paradigm forces speakers to align the special small airtight filing cabinet with 10 drawers each
utterance to the tones and the way speakers form a promi- 2 in. high and a smaller gap between each drawer—a ‘coordi-
nence-headed foot or a foot-like unit within the phase of native-rhythmic’ item of archaeological equipment if ever
clicks is analysed. Results show that, for example, English there was. Now, we might adopt a simple strategy of divid-
speakers have a strong preference for aligning stressed syllables ing the manuscript into ten 1-in. sections, one for each
to the tones [76], Korean speakers tend to align the accentual- drawer, with plenty of space to spare. Alternatively, we
phrase initial syllables [78], while speakers of Spanish or Italian might notice that every so often within the manuscript a