happy to point out), even though relatively simple mechan- unless there are potential sequences of elements varying in
isms could have been applied in its historical development duration and salience which can unambiguously be
that would have culminated in rhythmic rectitude. Our described as lacking rhythm within the relevant framework,
view, then, is that the simulacrum of rhythm in speech is acci- then the concept of rhythm becomes vacuous. Questions
dental. White [2] shows how durational adjustments for about the association of speech to incontestibly rhythmical
functions such as marking domain edges and heads may in activities will be framed differently, in terms not of matching
some cases simulate goal-oriented compression to achieve two rhythms but of finding the best analogues in the linguis-
rhythm; and the apparent alternation of prominences of tic signal to allow the metaphorical interpretation in speech

strong-stress languages is merely emergent from the way of the rhythm in question. As those analogues will depend


in part on the phonology (including prosody) of the given do not reflect the fact more transparently. As we noted, there

language, and as there is wide variation in phonology across are easy remedies by way of historical change which could
languages, the metaphor will select different properties have achieved this by now, but they have not been
language specifically, and indeed will be easier to apply, or implemented. What is clear is that progress in understanding
to apply unambiguously, in some languages than others. To the rhythm of speech—or the lack of it—will be best served
the extent that this is true, it suggests spoken language is by including the widest and most diverse range of languages
more the handmaiden of language as an abstract cogni- in research within all the relevant paradigms.

tive system, and is less the slave of cyclical physical activities

(comparable to walking). If, on the other hand, we reject the Acknowledgments. The authors thank two anonymous reviewers and the
