categories: stress-, syllable- and mora-timed rhythms [14,15]. consonant clusters, whereas syllable-timed languages pre-
English and German were generally considered good represen- dominantly include simple consonant-vowel combinations
tatives of stress timing, French and Spanish of syllable timing [16]. Currently available consonantal measures include the
and Japanese of mora timing. These classifications centred AC [16], VarcoC [17] and rPVI-C [19] measures. Note that
around the concept of isochrony, or equality of duration. In these consonant measures tend not to be rate normalized, as
stress-timed languages, stress groups or feet were perceived as consonant durations vary less across different speaking rates
being of equal duration, whereas in syllable-timed languages, than vowels.
syllables were considered to be isochronous. Finally, a number of metrics have gone beyond vowels or
These early perceptual descriptions of rhythm were soon consonants as their unit of measurement and look at the varia-
superseded by acoustic measures which allowed researchers bility of syllable duration (VarcoVC [20], variability index (VI)
to capture speech segment duration from audio recordings [21]) or whole stress groups (ISI [22]) to characterize rhythm.
with an accuracy of a fraction of a millisecond. On the basis The application of the above metrics in clinical research
of these data, researchers realized that some of the perceptual was based on the fact that some of the differences observed
concepts developed around rhythm could not be maintained. between typical and disordered rhythmic performance
In particular, the notion of isochrony was not supported by appeared to mirror the cross-linguistic distinction between

the durational measures, instead stress groups and syllables stress- and syllable-timed languages. It thus seemed likely


that the measures would be able to identify deviations from associated with rhythmic problems although timing issues in | 3 |

normal rhythm and thus act as a diagnostic tool. Further- general are at the forefront of most types of MSDs. The only
more, the fact that cross-linguistic rhythm metrics were able study to date that seems to have considered perceptual ratings a
to reflect the continuum between stress and syllable timing in combination with acoustic metrics is Henrich et al. [28]. s
suggested their suitability to quantify the extent of deviation However, they applied a smaller range of acoustic metrics to a