to capture speech segment duration from audio recordings [21]) or whole stress groups (ISI [22]) to characterize rhythm.
with an accuracy of a fraction of a millisecond. On the basis The application of the above metrics in clinical research
of these data, researchers realized that some of the perceptual was based on the fact that some of the differences observed
concepts developed around rhythm could not be maintained. between typical and disordered rhythmic performance
In particular, the notion of isochrony was not supported by appeared to mirror the cross-linguistic distinction between

the durational measures, instead stress groups and syllables stress- and syllable-timed languages. It thus seemed likely


that the measures would be able to identify deviations from associated with rhythmic problems although timing issues in | 3 |

normal rhythm and thus act as a diagnostic tool. Further- general are at the forefront of most types of MSDs. The only
more, the fact that cross-linguistic rhythm metrics were able study to date that seems to have considered perceptual ratings a
to reflect the continuum between stress and syllable timing in combination with acoustic metrics is Henrich et al. [28]. s
suggested their suitability to quantify the extent of deviation However, they applied a smaller range of acoustic metrics to a
from normal rhythmic performance in impaired populations. their data than Liss ef al. [20] and, in addition, only included = 2-
This feature would be important in terms of judging the speakers with ataxic dysarthria. Although their results thus Ss
severity of the disorder and would allow the metric to func- provide an indication that some measures (PVI, ISI) correlated § =
tion as a therapy outcome measure to indicate potential better with perceptual judgements of disordered rhythm than =
improvement in performance after treatment. others (%V), they cannot shed light on the question whether ‘S
In the attempt to investigate whether rhythm metrics any deviation picked up by an acoustic metric corresponds to
were indeed valid and reliable tools to capture disorders of a perceived disorder of rhythm. 2
speech timing, researchers applied a wide range of the There are further methodological problems associated — =
above measures. Of these, the PVI was one of the first to be with the application of metrics to disordered speech beyond yy
applied to clinical speech [23-25]. Another early attempt the lack of validation alluded to above. These pertain to the 2