participate in the play is accessible to a broad base of scien- Perhaps the exceptional stability of triplet microtubules stems
tists. Too many proteins have been referred to under more from the short distance between the A microtubule of one tri-
than one name. For instance, the human protein related to plet and the C microtubule of the adjacent triplet, which could
C. elegans SAS-4 (Spindle ASsembly abnormal 4) has been provide additional mechanical strength. Moreover, triplet
referred to as SAS4 (to indicate its relatedness with the microtubules could provide different surface properties from
worm protein), as CPAP (for Centrosomal P4.1-Associated that of doublets to associate with specific PCM proteins.
Protein, as it was first named, before the relationship to The mechanisms underlying the exceptional stability of
SAS-4 was known) or CENPJ (for Centromere Protein J, for centriolar microtubules are not sufficiently understood, but
reasons that remain unclear). Although this naming plethora they are accompanied by the extensive post-translational
is not an issue specific to the centrosome field, a concerted modifications of tubulin subunits, including polyglutamyla-
effort would be welcome to clarify the language. tion, detyrosination, acetylation and polyglycylation [18].
We hope that the reader of this Theme Issue will be in a pos- These modifications are thought to be important for centriole
ition to appreciate the fact that despite considerable progress in integrity, as evidenced by the antibody injection experiments

understanding the molecular composition, the assembly described above. By analogy to the impact of post-


translational modifications on the binding of microtubule- centriolar microtubules and their regulation is an exciting fron-

associated proteins or motors on neuronal microtubules [18], tier of research. Centriole elongation also involves the assembly
one possibility is that such modifications promote the associ- of an intra-luminal structure in the distal end (figure 1). Except
ation of PCM proteins with centriolar microtubules, which in for the presence of Centrin proteins and the Centrin-binding
turn could contribute to centriole stability. Such reciprocal protein POCS, which is required for the assembly of the distal
stabilization of the two compartments would increase over part of centrioles [36], little is known about the molecular com-
time, resulting in the accumulation of post-translational modi- position of this intra-luminal structure or about its interaction