brain substrates have been linked to utility representation and entails several pathologies and psychiatric disorders, includ-
computations (e.g. OFC, amygdala and vStr), it is necessary ing for example addictions, OCDs, depression and anxiety.
to disentangle their specific roles [17] but also to connect all Moreover, mechanisms of choice have susceptibilities that
of them within a general framework [35]. Furthermore, this could be systematically exploited to influence people; con-
Special Issue indicates how ecological and evolutionary sider for example how marketing strategies influence our
considerations can guide research in the field; for example, choice of what to buy or whom to vote for. This implies
by considering how complex cognitive control abilities might that understanding the mechanisms that regulate goal-
derive from the sophistication of initially simpler neuronal directed choice and its abnormalities might help shed light
systems [14,34,39]. on fundamental problems of our modern societies.

Another pressing question is: ‘what are the key—neural, Insights in the mechanics of goal-directed choice will
behavioural and computational—fingerprints of goal-directed also permit researchers to design a novel generation of arte-
choice and behaviour? and what are the differences with other facts including robots that are more autonomous (as they
(e.g. habitual) systems?’ The Special Issue includes three contri- may become able to act on purpose well beyond what they
butions that provide accessible introductions to the key neural are pre-programmed to do) and can better interact with
and behavioural [32] and computational [26,28] signatures humans (as they predict and evaluate the consequences of
of goal-directed systems and compare them with alterna- their actions, and their associated risks). Ultimately, society
tives (e.g. habitual) systems. The Special Issue also revolves will benefit when robots become more flexible, versatile,
around distinct computational schemes that are proposed to intelligent and sentient as they incorporate principles from
define goal-directed choice in a normative framework, which goal-directed decision-making.
include model-based reinforcement learning [26], hierarchical
reinforcement learning [28], ideomotor action [29], active infer- Acknowledgements. This Special Issue stems principally from a collabora-
ence [27] and game-theoretic approaches in the social domain tive work the guest editors performed in the context of the project

Goal-Leaders (www.goal-leaders.eu), for which we gratefully