only 45% of smear positive cases could Mtb be cultured from ance) may allow for the development of more sophisticated
cough aerosols generated through 10 min of strong coughing. models [41] that will allow more accurate assessment of the
In addition, the variability in colony-forming units (cfu) gener- prevalence of infection and estimates of useful subgroups
ated was great (1-378 cfu). They also showed that infection of such as the prevalence of drug-resistant LTBI or the proportion
household contacts was significantly greater when the index of LTBI related to a recent infection. However, ultimately what
cases had a high cough aerosol cfu compared with low or no we want to know is the proportion that is highly likely to
cough aerosol cfu [35]. Confirming that cases of TB transmit vari- develop active disease (figure 1).

ably, Escombe ef al. [36] using the Riley guinea pig model of
airborne infection in an HIV/TB ward in Peru showed that
8.5% of admissions were responsible for 98% of infections in

guinea pigs. Further complicating the situation is the fact that 4, The natural history of tuberculosis

although previously Mtb was considered a highly invariant The natural history of TB is more complex than most bacterial
pathogen, recent large-scale whole genome sequencing projects pathogens. The incubation period is prolonged and the out-
have made it clear that the pathogen has continued to evolve. come of infection variable depending upon both host and
As human population density has expanded exponentially and pathogen. Much of our current understanding still arises
living conditions have shifted from low-density agrarian con- from piecing together historical studies and evidence from
ditions to high-density urban conditions, new genetic variants animal models that often fail to replicate key aspects of
of Mtb have emerged, displacing formerly resident strains [37] human disease. However, understanding this natural history
(see box 1). More ‘modern’ strains differ from their ancient pro- of infection is critical to accurate categorization of TB-infected
genitors, notably at a cellular level in the magnitude of the persons, identification of correlates of risk and protection,
innate immune response they elicit [38]. More variation in and development of novel interventions.
