changes the problem fundamentally from selecting an optimal

action to making optimal inference about control. In other In summary, the environment is characterized as a distri-
words, under the assumption that action is sampled from pos- bution R(@, §,@) over observations, true states and action,
terior beliefs about control, we can treat decision-making and whereas the agent is characterized by two distributions: a
action selection as a pure inference problem that necessarily generative model P(6, 3, im) that connects observations to
entails optimizing beliefs about behaviour and its conse- hidden states and posterior beliefs about those states
quences. Sampling actions from posterior beliefs is known QG, |) parametrized by its expectations. True states control
as Thompson sampling [37,38]; see [38] which is especially environmental responses but are never observed directly.
relevant as it provides a free energy derivation. Instead, the agent infers hidden states based on its obser-
The following summarizes the material in ref. [8]. We use vations. Crucially, these hidden states include control states
bold-italic typeface to indicate true states of the world and that prescribe action. Here, the generative model plays a dual
italic typeface for hidden or fictive states assumed by an role—it is a predictive model over observations and encodes
agent. The parameters (expectations) of categorical distri- optimal policies (in terms of prior beliefs about control
butions over discrete states s € {1,..., J} are denoted by J x 1 states). The agent and the environment interact in cycles. In
vectors §  [0, 1], while the ~ notation denotes sequences of each cycle, the agent first figures out which hidden states are
variables over time. most likely by optimizing its expectations with respect to the
free energy of observations. After optimizing its posterior
Definition. Active inference rests on the tuple (Q, S, A, P, beliefs, an action is sampled from the posterior marginal over
P,Q,R, S, U) control states. The environment then picks up this action,
generates a new observation and a new cycle starts.
— A finite set of observations . The optimization above is that usually portrayed in terms of
— A finite set of true states and actions S x A. perception (inference about hidden states) and action (a choice
— A finite set of fictive or hidden states S x U. model in which action is a function of inferred states). Action
— A generative process over observations, states and action and perception couple the agent to the environment; where