
systems. By contrast, we propose that, at least in the case of to move their gaze may use it to direct the processing of
embodied decisions, commitment takes place through a distrib- both the ventral and dorsal streams to the same spatial
uted consensus within sensorimotor systems. Deliberation locus, allowing ventro-prefrontal mechanisms to simply
involves both the dynamics of the sensorimotor competition as instruct the dorsal sensorimotor systems to ‘grasp whatever
well as the computation of relevant biases in regions tradition- is in the fovea’ [135].
ally considered ‘cognitive’. Our hypothesis is quite compatible Despite our emphasis on embodied decisions and the
with recent proposals about activity in these regions. For mechanisms that meet their particular challenges, we do
example, computation of absolute economic value in OFC [22] not argue against the usefulness of studying the neural mech-
would clearly be useful for biasing the competition between anisms of pure economic choices. Obviously, humans are
actions that yield different outcomes. A variety of stages may capable of making decisions that have nothing to do with
exist where relevant variables converge to form representations action, and understanding such abilities is of great scientific
of stimulus value or action value, perhaps in OFC and anterior and clinical interest. In fact, it is quite possible that the dis-
cingulate cortex, respectively [132,133]. However, a single tinction between different kinds of decisions, such as
‘common currency’ is not strictly necessary because the biases abstract versus embodied decisions, is paralleled by a distinc-
can ultimately be integrated within the sensorimotor tion between different neural structures and circuits that
competition itself. subserve these scenarios. There is a wealth of theoretical
A major difference between our hypothesis and classical work suggesting such distinctions, in psychology [136]
models is that there is no need for a value-to-action trans- as well as economics [4,137], and neural data suggest that
formation [26]. Information about affordances is always different kinds of decisions involve different brain regions
available in sensory input and the dorsal stream and parieto- [45,132,133,138,139]. Indeed, phylogenetic continuity motiv-
frontal systems are exquisitely good at extracting that infor- ates us to consider how abstract decisions such as economic
mation to specify potential actions. There is no need to choice evolved within a system originally adapted for real-
convert these into abstract representations, make decisions time embodied choices, and how the architectures subserving
to choose a goal, and then convert that goal back into an these abilities may be related.