The research into and debate over future-oriented cogni- review, see e.g. [11]).
tion has revolved closely around the so-called episodic However, the assumption of subjective experience as a
cognitive system and the mental time travel it is said to necessary functional part of mental time travel has hampered
enable. Many have argued vigorously that this cognitive animal research. For example, the series of clever studies on
skill is uniquely human; and, therefore, only the human memory and foresight in corvids performed by Clayton
animal is capable of future-oriented cognition as captured and co-workers [12-17] show highly flexible behaviour, but
by the above criteria [4—6]. cannot strictly be viewed as revealing operations of an episo-
In this paper, we describe some of the key cognitive systems dic system, because any correlating phenomenal experiences
believed to support future-oriented cognition while critically cannot be measured. To avoid entangling themselves in the
examining certain assumptions in the current debate. Review- question of subjectivity, they drew on Tulving’s earliest cri-
ing the research on future-oriented cognition in our closest terion for episodic memory, where the ability—in an
living relatives—the great apes—we question whether these integrated and flexible fashion—to remember information
cognitive skills are, in fact, exclusively human. Our aim, on the what, where and when relating to an event was the
through these examples, is to show that research into future- defining factor, unrelated to any consciousness. However,
oriented cognition in non-human animals must broaden this approach was criticized on the grounds that the capacity
beyond the current ill-founded dichotomies if we wish truly to remember what, where and when is neither necessary nor
to understand how cognition affects the future in various ways. sufficient for mental time travel [4]; moreover, one could, in

principle, use only the semantic system and remember
what, where and when as strictly factual information [18].

2. The episodic system This is one example of how the question of phenomenal
experience draws attention away from the central question
(a) Consciousness and mental time travel of how memories and future-oriented cognition work, turning
The theoretical roots of much of the contemporary cognitive- it instead into a dichotomous question about human unique-