only store perceptible properties, always in autobiographical refer- identify what subjective experience is for, either ultimately or
ence to the already existing content of the episodic memory store. proximately. What fitness-raising benefits does a creature gain
Tulving gradually [8,9] refined the defining contents of from subjective experience: what it can do in comparison with
these memory systems, referring to them as a memory a ‘mindless’ cousin living in the same biological niche? No
system allowing us mental travel backwards in time, implying firmly grounded theories as yet exist. The possibility arises
a sense of past. One notable extension on the original model that subjective experience is a mere, non-functional by-product
was that a certain form of consciousness is a necessary correlate of other processes.
to episodic memories—what Tulving dubbed autonoetic (‘self- These problems obviously also apply to humans. Never-
knowing’) consciousness, a type of first-person phenomenal theless, it is agreed that linguistic reports of subjective
experience of detached perceptions existing only as constructs experience are sufficient proof of their existence, in line with
in the mind, based on previous experiences, such that the the comforting non-solipsistic belief that one is not alone in
feeling of them belongs to your temporal self [9]. This contrasts the world as a conscious agent. With regards to the human epi-
with the semantic system, where knowledge about facts is not sodic system, this raises no concerns; it is valid to assume that
subjectively tied but simply involves awareness of familiarity human episodic processes correlate to subjective experiences.
of knowing, i.e. noetic consciousness. Difficulties arise when confusing correlation with causation.
Tulving early on argued that episodic memory is not only Tulving [5] and Suddendorf & Corballis [4] explicitly view sub-
oriented towards the past, but it also allows construction of jective experience as functional in episodic recollection and
possible future events [9]. Meanwhile, Suddendorf & Corballis foresight even though no empirical evidence exists showing
[10] took Tulving’s backward-time-travel metaphor further, what subjective experiences do, or whether they are mere epi-

coining the expression mental time travel both to emphasize phenomena. Subjective experiences might well be functional;


currently, we simply do not know. Therefore, for now, they One approach is to assume that future orientation entails El
