constructs in a way similar to those provided by the episodic choose to go to the moon’—which took roughly 3 s to say—he a
system. Humans do not seem to have radically different brain most likely did not episodically simulate the endeavour that = 2
structures or pathways associated with mental simulations or took 400 000 people a decade to fulfil, if only because the size 3
episodic abilities. Simulating behaviour and perception most of his brain was not large enough to manage such an operation. S
likely has ancient roots [2]. Allen & Fortin [29] argue that the When we, humans, perform long-term planning stretching over =
episodic system traces back neurobiologically to the ancestor years or decades, we probably depend much on our semantic ‘5
of all mammals, birds and reptiles. Reviewing the literature system. We know about such facts as retirement, academic ©
on the regions and pathways related to the episodic system degrees and other concepts referring to our future. The flip
in animals—the hippocampus, parahippocampal region and side of the coin is that animals exhibiting future-oriented cogni- = =
prefrontal cortex with its bird equivalents—they identify tion usually do so in relation to their own subject, characteristic yy
the core properties in (at least) all mammals and birds. They do of the use of an episodic system. Some of the restrictions of 2
not claim that all these animals have what is technically defined future-oriented cognition in non-human animals might well &
in humans as an episodic system—rather that such a system be caused by limited factual knowledge of the world. a
would easily have evolved from structures they all possess, struc- Here, we have stressed the importance of the semantic w
tures that at the very least are able to represent spatiality (the system in trying to balance the picture of what is needed | ©
‘where’-function). Indeed, this seems to be the earliest function for what we think of as future-oriented cognition. Several S
of the hippocampus, existing also in teleost fishes. Behaviourally other mechanisms may have equal importance in various =)
based neurobiological studies on rats, who share a last common foresight feats such as executive function, associative learn- = &
ancestor with humans around 92 Ma, suggest that they have a ing, means-end-reasoning and recursion. We touch on some
‘spatial episodic’ system advanced enough to anticipate paths of these in reviewing what is known about future-oriented
they have not taken before [30]. Meanwhile, the so-called default cognition in our closest living relatives: the great apes.

mode network—the wakeful but resting brain’s flow of memories
and daydreams—which in humans is associated with mental
time travel [31], has been shown also to exist in rats [32], monkeys 4. Theory and empirical results: g reat ape