ally switch to become the winner by changing their response. they should choose an option which has mutually good
But Matching Pennies does have a mixed strategy Nash pay-offs (9 and 10 units) or one which has very asymmetrical
equilibrium: each player chooses Heads and Tails with 50% pay-offs (12 and 1 units). Both players know that it is very
probability, literally by spinning a coin. unlikely they would mutually agree to choose the second,

Nash [6,7] famously showed that for a very wide class as the disadvantaged player will never concur. Thus, accord-
of interactions between players, the ‘game’ had at least one ing to virtual bargaining, both players in this Battle-of-the-
Nash equilibrium (whether ‘pure’ or ‘mixed’). Indeed, many Sexes game will know that this is true, know that the other
interesting games have several such equilibria. Consider, for knows it, etc.; and hence both will spontaneously choose A,
example, a simple ‘coordination game’ (figure 1c) in which, not B, alighting on the (A,A) equilibrium.
unlike PD or Matching Pennies, the players’ interests align, So far, one might wonder whether, rather than engaging
rather than conflict. Here, there are two ‘pure strategy’ equili- in bargaining, both players are simply choosing the equili-
bria of (H,H) and (T,T) (and, in fact, a further ‘mixed strategy’ brium of the greatest summed pay-offs. For example, rather
equilibrium, where both players choose by spinning a fair coin). than seeing the players as bargaining to achieve a solution,

In social interactions that can be modelled as a game we might consider the players to reason instead as part of a
with multiple equilibria, producing predictions about what ‘team’ whose objective is to maximize the total pay-off to
players should choose requires selecting one equilibrium the team members (see [8,9]). However, consider figure 1f,
among others. The notion of a Nash equilibrium needs to which provides an example where the summed pay-offs are
be ‘refined’, to pick out one such equilibrium over the others. so unfairly divided that they would not be agreed by real bar-

The virtual bargaining account of social interaction that gainers. The virtual bargaining account accordingly predicts

we propose and outline below provides one theory of how that this equilibrium would not be selected.
