Neurotransmission
endothelial cells endothelial shedding from plasma membrane (less than 1 xm in diameter); phosphatidyl overexpression, adhesion
microparticles molecules specific for mature endothelial cells; in circulation, interacting especially with monocytes; role

in stroke and CNS inflammation

A2A receptors capable of recognizing and decoding extracellu- transmission of the microglial EMVs to recipient microglia
lar signals can be safely transferred via extracellular vesicles (table 3) with upregulation of the expression of genes enhancing
from source to target cells in cellular models. The evidence inflammation (IL-1beta, IL-6, cyclooxygenase-2, etc.) [47]. Micro-
indicated that GPCRs could be transported via extracellular glial /macrophage EMV-mediated VT appears to play a relevant
vesicles to recipient cells likely mainly in the form of mRNA role in neuroinflammation, for example, in multiple sclerosis
but also as proteins, which adds a further level of plasticity. and represents a target for treatment of CNS inflammation. The
In fact, a recipient cell, after receiving the extracellular vesicle possible differential roles in VT of diffusion and flow of soluble
cargo, can induce the translation process of the extracellular peptides and proteins in the ECF versus their transport in EMVs
vesicle-derived mRNA, and the receptor formed can acquire which diffuse and flow in ECF remain to be determined.
the ability to respond to its neurotransmitter ligand [54]. This Microglial EMVs via VT also communicate with neurons
mechanism can increase the plasticity of the cells. However, and enhance excitatory transmission [46,76,77]. These EMVs
it is also possible that an unspecific delivery of GPCRs via can also express a number of proteins found also in
this mechanism can induce a misresponse to the neurotrans- EMVs from B cells and dendritic cells [70,83]. Microglial
mitter in the acceptor cells, which can lead to malfunction. EMVs also express MHC class II molecules upregulated
In addition, other cells in the CNS such as astrocytes by interferon-gamma [70]. Their relevance for antigen
[68,69], microglial cells [70] and oligodendrocytes [71] release presentation and CNS immunity is, however, unknown
EMVs (table 3). Astrocytes can release EMVs by an ATP- [76]. In inflammation, T cells can penetrate the blood-brain
induced stimulation of P2X7 receptors followed by an barrier and reach antigens presented by microglia which pro-
action of acid sphingomyelinase [72]. The astrocytic EMVs duces a number of effector functions, including cytotoxic