of regulatory decision-making at a national scale and inform within irrigation channels, and domesticated animals, as
commodity and farming organizations about occupational and well as wildlife. The perimeters and crops in Niger exhibited
non-occupational risks that should be addressed. Finally, at a similar pattern of high risk in 2010.
the village scale, we have carried out a cumulative risk assessment Electronic supplementary material, table S3a—f presents
by compound across all the uses for that material in the different detailed country-level risk scorecards by crop grown in the
crops that are grown. We argue that this is the most appropriate 2 years that surveys were undertaken, 2007 and 2010. A cumulat-
currency for risk communication to farmers who use individual ive risk score is presented for each crop for all the sprays applied
compounds in several crops and who may be able to select in that particular country, with a colour code corresponding to
alternatives that are of lower overall risk. the cumulative risk classification. Additionally, we list the com-
The region-wide analysis of impact area is given in the form pounds that are used in a particular crop that have a cumulative
of bubble graphs (figure 2) and in table 5, which also serves as a risk score of greater than 0.5, and an impact area that exceeds 10%
legend for the impact area figures. Given the total area surveyed of the farmed hectares for that crop. This analysis also includes
of 1591 ha, the fact that numerous combinations of risk index REI advice for farm workers and children. The tables provide,
and compound yield impact areas of several hundred hectares, to our knowledge, the first scientifically based summary of the
the largest being 756 ha for dimethoate risk to aquatic invert- distribution of pesticide risks in West African agriculture and
ebrates, suggests that severe pesticide risks are widespread they are sufficiently detailed for risk communication and man-
throughout West Africa. There are large impact areas exceeding agement programmes to be planned at a national ora local scale.
150 ha, or 10% of the area under cultivation in our survey, within Having first presented a regional assessment that isola-
all the individual risk indexes that we employed, but the ted the pesticides responsible for the highest areas of impact,
compound responsible for risk within each index varied. the analysis by crop and by country reveals variability in the
The highest impact areas within each index were rep- nature and level of risks and the compounds responsible for
resented by: propanil for aquatic algal risk, dimethoate for them at a national scale. They suggest that blanket regulatory
aquatic invertebrate risk, methamidophos for avian acute risk, actions at a regional level may not be appropriate. We are
earthworm risk and small mammal acute risk, dimethoate for not aware of any other analysis of pesticide risks that provi-
avian reproductive risk, dichlorprop for fish reproductive risk des this level of specificity or scalability. Human health risks