tion of the brain. For example, from embryonic day 11 (E11) a transcriptional coactivator, cAMP response element-binding
to E18, NSCs preferentially produce neurons in the mouse protein (CREB)-binding protein/p300 (CBP/p300), which has

developing brain. NSCs gradually acquire the capacity to acetyltransferase activity [2]. In support of the notion of the


common usage of JAK-STAT signalling for triggering the stemness of somatic stem cells with restricted potential, includ-

astrocytic fate determination of NSCs, knockout of either ing that of NSCs. Conversely, global level epigenetic changes
gp130 or Stat3 impairs astrocyte differentiation [11]. Acqui- that facilitate open chromatin formation are frequently associ-
sition of astrocyte differentiation potential of NSCs seems to ated with NSC differentiation to the neuronal cell fate. For
be accomplished by cell-intrinsic DNA demethylation at astro- example, H3K27 methyltransferase EZH2, H3K9 methyltrans-
cytic gene promoters, which is supported by the fact that NSCs ferase ESET (also called SETDB1), H3K4 demethylase LSH1
exhibit extreme neurogenic characters before this DNA and HDACs (HDAC1 and 2), all of which are involved in the
demethylation occurs both in vivo and in vitro [12,13]. There- formation of closed chromatin structures, are significantly
fore, neuronal and astrocytic cell fate as well are clearly expressed in NSCs, and their inhibition by gene targeting or
regulated by the niche and epigenetic mechanisms. pharmacological drugs attenuates the cell-cycle progression.

Although NSCs are characterized by their multipotency to Conversely, decreasing the level of closed chromatin-associated
become not only neurons and astrocytes but also oligodendro- epigenetic modifiers allows neuronal differentiation at the mid-
cytes, we do not yet know whether all NSCs can function as gestational stage in the mouse [21]. In addition to these general
ancestors of oligodendrocyte precursors (OPCs) in the early effects of epigenetic alterations, we need to consider the local
postnatal cerebral cortex. OPC markers were first detected at effect that enables the epigenetic changes on a particular set
E9 in the ventricular germinal layer of the laterobasal plate of of genes. For example, treatment of mouse E14 NSCs with val-
the diencephalon during mouse brain development. By E14, proic acid, an HDAC inhibitor, enhances the LIF-mediated