that locally memorizes the gene expression status, potentially and 3 convert 5’-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5hmC inan Fe (I)- |S
leading to establishment of an ideal situation for the phenoty- and a-ketoglutarate-dependent manner [60]. During embryo- 3
pic output. Figure 2 shows three possible steps triggered by the nic brain development, high levels of 5hmC are detected in © =
association between IncRNAs (eRNA and pancRNA) and the genome. Tet] or 2 single knockout mice appear to undergo
mRNAs. This model may be of interest to not only neuroscien- normal embryonic and early postnatal development, although
tists but also evolutionary scientists because ncRNA genes can Tetl and 2 are normally highly expressed in adult brain and in
be expanded more easily in the genome and diverged much neuronal layers of the embryonic cortex, respectively [60].
more during the evolutionary process than protein-coding Recently, more detailed analysis has revealed that TET1-
genes due to the way that ncRNA functions, which is not deficiency impairs self-renewal of NSCs and causes aberrant
restricted by the necessity for protein-coding potential. Evol- DNA methylation, resulting in a significant decrease of adult
utionary expansion of functional ncRNAs may explain in neurogenesis [61]. In the adult mouse dentate gyrus, TET1
part why brain structures are different among species, and was shown to be involved in neuronal activity-induced DNA
even among mammals, in spite of the fact that their protein- demethylation of the promoter regions of proliferation-related
coding genes are well conserved. Thus, further expansion of Feflb and of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene, fol-
the array of known ncRNA functions should definitely help lowed by their transcriptional upregulation [60]. However,
to understand the complexity of neural cell networks. little is known about how TET proteins target these specific

gene loci.

In addition to DNA methylation-related machineries,
other chromosomal proteins also modulate the epigenetic

(b) Chromatin-associated proteins that target local

components in the neural cell genome status in instructive and context-dependent manners by