each particular system, which can be treated as irrelevant as topological and dynamical network properties. Far from
they disappear when getting rid of details and observing being mere fancy mathematical descriptions of a system,
the system at increasingly longer length scales. these properties have important implications for the system’s
Appropriate null models facilitate quantitative network functioning [52].
evaluation. A random network topology with the same The particular structure of connections has important con-
degree distribution as the original network can be used as a sequences for the information processing capacities. The ability
null model [34]. to process and propagate signals between nodes is for example

affected by whether networks possess branching or loop-like
features [53]. It also affects the efficiency and robustness of

(ii) From structure to dynamics to function networks. For instance, several studies have suggested that
The fact that the same methodology can be applied to net- the SW organization of functional brain activity favours high
works of different nature is an advantage when delineating communication efficiency for a low wiring cost [4]. It has
the relationship between anatomy, dynamics and function. also been shown that the presence of rich-club organization
For example, the topological properties of anatomical and func- provides important information on network properties such
tional networks have been compared with the aim of detecting as hierarchal structure, modularity and resilience [54,55]. The
influences or constraints of one network on the other [35-37]. SW structure is commonly associated with an efficient organiz-
Although difficult to compare, owing to dissimilar origins ation of the brain, compatible with a simultaneous integration
and to a different number of nodes and links, these networks and segregation of information through the network [19]. On
share some topological properties, such as the SW structure the other hand, scale-free networks are highly resistant against
[38-40]. Several studies have compared functional networks random failures [18,56], though extremely fragile to attacks
at rest with structural connections, reporting high correspon- targeting their most connected nodes [57]. Similarly, the pres-
dence between both types of networks in regions with higher ence of degree—degree correlations affects the tendency to
density of anatomical connections, while high variability separate into distinct groups, as well as network synchroniz-