and control it, but also to steer it to desirable states.

thing, it would be useful to integrate the fact that the brain pos- (i) From comparison to classification and categorization
sesses qualitatively different nodes, be they neurons or entire If network properties genuinely describe functional brain
brain regions. For other basic concepts, e.g. that of distance, activity and its modulations under given conditions, e.g. cog-
neuroscience should promote alternative definitions, at least nitive tasks or neurological pathologies, then it should be
when considering a functional space isomorphic to the ana- possible to use them to discriminate various activity regimes
tomical one (as opposed to a phase space representation). associated with these conditions.
Likewise, community structure should be redefined in such a One principled way to overcome this limitation involves
way as to account for the possibility for a given neural assem- assessing what network properties optimize a given task, for
bly to pertain to different communities, possibly at different instance classifying experimental samples corresponding to
spatial and temporal scales. different experimental conditions. The amount of information
Network properties should reflect the fact that the brain is codified in each network can be approximated by the success
a complex adaptive system. This requires a clear understand- score achieved in a classification task, where a model is trained
ing of how functional networks respond to external stimuli at to identify subjects belonging to the two considered classes [93].
various spatial and temporal scales, or damaged brain net- Not only does this strategy allow identifying the combinations
works adapt, after both permanent neurological damage of properties obtaining higher classification scores, but it also
and, at faster time scales, e.g. following epileptic seizures, affords a quantitative assessment of the degree to which these
and become active again [140]. Parameters measuring brain properties actually discriminate between different experimental
adaptiveness, including topology—dynamics interactions conditions. This strategy is by no means confined to classifi-
should be proposed. The evolvability of a network, i.e. the con- cation tasks; for instance, it could conceivably be applied to
tinued propensity to adaptive innovation [141], may be modelling and predicting certain types of behaviour.
estimated by quantifying navigability within the network rep- Another strategy may consist in trying to define networks
resentation of the system’s phase space, i.e. the system’s along some metrics that would allow calculating distances
ability to find any given region of its phase space starting between them. For example, distances between pairs of