and other invasive techniques [4,5], mapping the human struc- on evoked connectivity in cat neocortex [15,16], Friston’s
tural connectome with such high resolution would be work on effective connectivity in human neuroimaging
technically and computationally challenging. At a more macro- [11,14,17] recently has been applied to encompass dynamic
scopic scale, the cerebral cortex may be thought of as a set of causal modelling, Granger causality and other model-free
hierarchically organized modules, or areas, that perform differ- approaches [18-20]. Horwitz has noted that that the term
ent sensory, cognitive or motor functions, each of which are ‘effective connectivity’ is applied broadly to different compu-
formed by large groups (approx. 10°) of neurons [6]. Non-inva- tational algorithms across multiple neurophysiology and
sive techniques based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) neuroimaging modalities (PET, fMRI and EEG) with widely
have now made it possible to image and quantify white variable spatial and temporal resolution, and he suggests that
matter tracts in the living human brain that interconnect these the term should be used cautiously and clearly [21].

modules. Specifically, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) takes There are two distinct approaches to probe effective
advantage of the fact that the random microscopic motion of connectivity: non-interventional and interventional. The
water molecules is biased in the direction of connective fibre non-interventional approaches are observational and attempt
pathways. Probabilistic maps of large-scale inter-regional to infer causality via the analysis of simultaneous recordings
tracts can thus be generated by combining the pattern of of neurons or areas, in order to quantify the directionality of
diffusion biases across voxels in space [7,8]. the functional connections using measures such as Granger

The ensemble of white matter connections—the structural causality and dynamic causal modelling [18-20].

connectome—is a necessary component of a complete theory By contrast, interventional approaches involve an empiric
of cortical function, as the anatomical substrate both enables perturbation of activity in one set of neurons as the independent
and constrains information flow and the dynamic grouping measure and then quantify its impact, or evoked response, at
of local neuronal populations into larger assemblies [9,10]. other sites as the dependent measure. Although non-interven-
While synaptic terminals represent the fundamental unit of tional approaches are promising, and more widely applicable