The concept that DE emerges at the distal tip of the conceptus single labelled posterior epiblast cell could result in cells of
resulted from fate-mapping studies that showed that DE pre- both mesoderm and gut endoderm [17,18]. Investigations of
cursors reside near the APS [17-19]. The primitive streak is a Nodal mutants have provided several insights into this
dynamic structure: it starts out as a small region of cellular matter. In vivo, the levels of Nodal signalling regulate the
ingression in the most posterior part of the epiblast (at the selective allocation of both mesoderm and endoderm [41].
epiblast-ExE border), which then gradually elongates dis- Mice lacking Nodal or its co-receptor Cripto fail to form a
tally and anteriorly until reaching the embryo’s distal tip. primitive streak and lack both mesoderm and gut endoderm
Thus, the position of the APS and fate of cells emanating [42-44]. Hypomorphic mutants with moderate levels of
from it are likely to change over time. Furthermore, DE of Nodal signalling can form some mesoderm and endoderm,
the mid- and hindgut is unaffected in Foxhl and Foxa2 whereas lower levels of Nodal signalling result in a loss of
(Hnf3B) mutant embryos, both of which fail to specify the endoderm, but not mesoderm [45]. By contrast, elevated
APS [35]. Therefore, while stage-specific fate maps suggest Nodal signalling caused by loss of the repressor DRAP1
a fairly localized origin for the DE, in fact these cells might resulted in an expanded primitive streak and production of
have origins all along the primitive streak. excess mesoderm [46]. These findings suggest that the

While live imaging data of fluorescent reporter strains visu- levels of Nodal signalling play an important role in regulat-
ally demonstrate dispersal of the emVE in lateral regions of the ing the selective allocation of mesoderm and endoderm
embryo, these data do not capture the cellular dynamics occur- from a common progenitor population. Further support for
ring in the midline in real-time [21]. Analysis of sequentially the existence of a bipotential mesendodermal population
staged Afp-GFP embryos reveals that emVE cells overlying comes from studies on the Wnt/f-catenin pathway. Upon
the midline become displaced anteriorly by epiblast-derived lineage-specific removal of B-catenin, mesoderm-like cells
cells fated to form axial mesoderm structures (node and noto- are present in the endoderm layer of mutant embryos
chord) [21]. Hence, in accordance with a displacement model, suggesting a transfating of endoderm to mesoderm [47],
some epiblast-derived cells presumably originating in the APS and deletion of f-catenin specifically in Sox17-expressing
probably insert directly into the endodermal layer from the cells prevents endoderm formation [48]. Nonetheless, based