
analysis (table 3 summarizes the main recent statistical Open questions remain regarding upcoming impacts of the a
models that aim to predict WNV transmission/dynamics altering climate on the ecology of WNYV, such as adaptation to s
based on climatic predictors). For instance, a dynamic hydrol- changing local environments, the ability of hosts to migrate,

ogy model used for predicting mosquito abundance showed evolutionary change and disease control efforts [10,113].

that local surface wetness was correlated with the subsequent These efforts target mainly the protection of human and
abundance of mosquito species [56]. A pair of Poisson horse populations, while in most cases they do not impact
regression models was developed to examine the extent to the WNV ecology such as the bird—vector cycle. Although sev- 2
which off-season factors, in particular, temperature variables, eral studies mentioned in the above review are based on case“
predict mosquito population size [60]. In a prediction model incidence in human or equine populations, WNV circulation ‘©
in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada, precipitation and occurs in the bird—mosquito system and in fact, the virus = -5
temperature were important in the prediction of risk of does not require human or equine populations for circulation. =
WNYV in humans, while decreasing rainfall into July and Apart from climatic factors, other drivers contribute to the =
higher temperatures overall were associated with high-risk geographical spread of WNYV, such as landscape features and -
areas [111]. In a recent study, Chen ef al. [93] used statistical land use, bird migration patterns, the caged bird trade and 2
models to predict the effects of climate change on the distri- mosquitoes spread by international transportation. All S
bution and abundance of C. tarsalis and WNV in the of these factors and others play an important role in the w
Canadian Prairies. Indeed, when using epidemiological pre- worldwide dispersion of the pathogen and vector [23,114]. od
diction models, more attention should be paid to the impacts Nevertheless, as climatic factors have significant direct ©
of the changing climate on future transmission of WNV. Ina and indirect influences on the WNV endemization, the 3S
new study, Tran et al. [112] used logistic regression models to impacts of the changing climate have to be taken into account ==
analyse the status of infection by WNV in Europe and in any evaluation of WNV transmission in the coming years.
