(500-1500 m.a.s.1.) with climatic conditions typically consist- lower latitudes, some authors have proposed that tropical
ing of highly variable rains and temperatures. For T. infestans, organisms will be more sensitive to temperature changes
the same thermal variables, except the minimum temperature [88] and consequently, the impact of climate change will be
of the driest quarter, were also the most important factors different across latitudes and species [89]. In agreement
determining the climatic suitability; this is also consistent with these considerations, we observed a differential impact
with the biology of this temperate species that is well adap- of climate change on the two vector species analysed here:
ted to areas characterized by cold temperatures and a broad R. prolixus shows a future expansion to new areas, whereas
thermal-tolerance range [83]. T. infestans shows a future decrease in its geographical

The wide areas in Venezuela (mostly in central and south- range compared with current conditions.
eastern regions) where R. prolixus shows transitions from Several authors, based on sample theory models, have pro-
medium to high suitability suggest a potential shift in its posed a link between presence (or occupancy) of species and
geographical distribution. Because these areas are currently con- their population abundance [70,72,81,90]. Despite the fact
sidered at low transmission risk, new vectorial transmission that the house infestation—vector density relationship used
seems a distinct possibility for Venezuela in the climatic here is beginning to become recognized in certain other
change scenario considered here (RCP6.0). On the other hand, vector species such as phlebotomine sandflies associated
the predicted decrease from medium-to-low suitability in with the transmission of leishmaniasis [85], R. prolixus and
high-risk Tr. cruzi transmission states in Venezuela suggests a T. infestans do not seem to show such a direct relationship,
decrease in the geographical distribution of this species, and this could be due to the existence of other variables
mainly at the foothills of the Andean and coastal mountain (socio-environmental or economic among others) that were
ranges, thus suggesting less serious epidemiological impli- not included in our ecological niche models. Because the cli-
cations in a climate change context. In contrast, no changes matic suitability estimated by the ENMs does not take into
from medium-to-high climatic suitability were observed for account socio-environmental variables such as vector control
T. infestans in Argentina, but instead a marked change from strategies, the relationship between occupancy and population
medium-to-low suitability (mainly in northeast and western abundance becomes difficult to verify. Socio-environmental