ECs values lower than predicted by a factor of roughly 2— cluded that synergisms and antagonisms are more often
unfortunately, the authors do not provide numerical values than not concentration- and effect-level dependent and
for the observed and predicted ECsos) from the predictions rather specific for the tested mixture and bioassay. In parti-
by CA and IA were also observed by Schnell et al. [53] for cular, synergistic mixtures seem to be largely confined to
an equitoxic mixture of diclofenac, bezafibrate, fluvoxamine, mixtures of only a few compounds, usually not more than
musk ketone and galaxolide. Clear synergistic effects to algae two or three, which seems to be an apparent contradic-
were observed for mixtures of flumequine + erythromycin tion to the results from multi-component mixtures, in
and oxytetracycline + flumequine by Christensen [45]. which synergistic or antagonistic mixture effects are rarely,
Brezovsek et al. [54] observed deviations from the CA- if ever, observed. This might, on the one hand, be simply
and JA-predicted mixture toxicities in binary combinations caused by the lack of published studies on multi-component
of antineoplastics (5-fluoruracil, cisplatin, etoposide and ima- pharmaceutical mixtures.
tinib) in algal growth assays using Pseudokirchneriella and On the other hand, this phenomenon might be explained
Synechococcus. The most pronounced antagonistic interaction by the fact that a multi-component mixture would buffer
resulted in the complete abolishment of the cisplatin-induced against the impact of a few synergistic or antagonistic inter-
algal toxicity by etoposide. Synergistic (more than predicted actions. This is visualized in figure 2, where it is assumed
by CA as well as IA) mixture toxicities were observed for that one of the pharmaceuticals of the STP mixture analysed
Pseudokirchneriella exposed to the combination of 5-fluorouracil in figure 1 is five times more toxic in the mixture. That is, the
and imatinib, whereas the same combination was antagonistic corresponding toxic unit is assumed five times bigger when
in the assay with Synechococcus. Such results certainly highlight present in the mixture than as an individual substance.
the importance of species-dependent interactions between Figure 2 shows that, even if ofloxacin, the compound that is
pharmaceuticals in a mixture. vastly dominating the mixture, is five times more toxic than
Similarly complex results are described in a recent paper expected, the overall toxicity of the mixture only increases
by Gonzalez-Pleiter et al., in which the results from a series of by a factor of 3.1. If any of the other compounds is syner-
binary mixture experiments in growth inhibition assays with gized, the overall mixture toxicity becomes increasingly less
the blue-green algae Anabaena CPB4337 and the green algae affected. In fact, the mixture toxicity is not measurably