Synechococcus. The most pronounced antagonistic interaction by the fact that a multi-component mixture would buffer
resulted in the complete abolishment of the cisplatin-induced against the impact of a few synergistic or antagonistic inter-
algal toxicity by etoposide. Synergistic (more than predicted actions. This is visualized in figure 2, where it is assumed
by CA as well as IA) mixture toxicities were observed for that one of the pharmaceuticals of the STP mixture analysed
Pseudokirchneriella exposed to the combination of 5-fluorouracil in figure 1 is five times more toxic in the mixture. That is, the
and imatinib, whereas the same combination was antagonistic corresponding toxic unit is assumed five times bigger when
in the assay with Synechococcus. Such results certainly highlight present in the mixture than as an individual substance.
the importance of species-dependent interactions between Figure 2 shows that, even if ofloxacin, the compound that is
pharmaceuticals in a mixture. vastly dominating the mixture, is five times more toxic than
Similarly complex results are described in a recent paper expected, the overall toxicity of the mixture only increases
by Gonzalez-Pleiter et al., in which the results from a series of by a factor of 3.1. If any of the other compounds is syner-
binary mixture experiments in growth inhibition assays with gized, the overall mixture toxicity becomes increasingly less
the blue-green algae Anabaena CPB4337 and the green algae affected. In fact, the mixture toxicity is not measurably
P. subcapitata are described [55]. Several combinations were impacted if any of the compounds that contributes less than
consistently more toxic than predicted by the median effect 10% to the sum of toxic units is synergized. This buffering
principle (levofloxacin + tetracycline, amoxicillin + norfloxa- against synergistic interactions in multi-component mixtures
cin in the test with Anabaena; levofloxacin + norfloxacin, might be a major reason why the toxicity of this mixture
erythromycin + tetracycline in the Vibrio assay), whereas type is well predictable by either CA or IA.
the joint toxicity was well approximated by the median Neither CA nor IA make any assumption on the targeted
effect principle for other combinations (e.g. the joint toxicity biological system nor do they consider any specific properties
of erythromycin and norfloxacin to Anabaena). Interestingly, of mixture components beyond their pharmacological (dis)-
the authors also apply CA in its more general form (equation similarity. This is both a strength and weakness of the
(2.1)) and conclude that the median effect principle has concepts. On the one hand, this simplicity allows general
superior predictive power. The cause of these discrepancies rules for mixture toxicity assessment to be established,
between CA and the median effect principle remain largely which is essential for considering the joint action of chemicals