thermore, physical and biological factors might impose underlying causes? and (iv) what are the quantitative conse-
additional environmental stress upon chemically exposed quences, that is, to what extent do those processes hamper
organisms and populations [67]. the predictive power of the very simple mixture concepts of

CA and IA? First evidence on the potential importance of
taking the ecological level into consideration can be gained
from studies on pesticide interactions, such as those reported

6. Knowledge gaps and the next steps by van Brink et al. [19], who analysed the ecotoxicity of a her-
The fact that CA and IA have been proved to be quite accurate bicide—insecticide mixture in aquatic microcosms and found
and precise predictive instruments for the ecotoxicological that, while macroinvertebrates were seriously affected, several
assessment of pharmaceutical mixtures in several experimental phytoplankton species actually increased in their abundance,
studies should not blind us to the fact that the body of empiri- owing to reduced grazing pressure.
cal evidence is still threadbare in many aspects. Perhaps it The necessity to verify nominal concentrations has been
might be hardly worthwhile to test yet another mixture of recently highlighted in a discussion paper on ‘principles of
pharmaceuticals of the same mode of action class in a standard sound ecotoxicology’ [71], and many of the experimental mix-
aquatic single-species assay with, say, algae, daphnids or zeb- ture studies discussed in this review do not fulfil this criterion.
rafish, in order to check whether CA applies. But, knowledge There is hence certainly room for improving the quality of mix-
on the impact of pharmaceutical mixtures on non-standard ture studies in this aspect. However, I would also argue that it
test species, especially from the terrestrial and marine environ- depends strongly on the specific aims of a given mixture study,
ment is still severely lacking. Additionally, we know very little the conclusions drawn from it, the employed biotest and the
about the joint ecotoxicity of pharmaceuticals under environ- composition of the investigated mixture whether analytical
mentally more realistic conditions—i.e. in situations where exposure verifications are possible in the first place, whether
several interconnected populations of different species are they are merely ‘nice to have’ or whether they are ‘absolutely
exposed to a multitude of pharmaceuticals from different essential’ (or something in between). For example, analytical