
For all three libraries (A-C), the ‘short’ category is associ- is important to recognize that analysis of ancient DNA will
ated with a higher endogenous percentage (as measured by always be somewhat slow, as each sample needs to be
reads mapping to the reference genome) for all sequenced mechanically pulverized in clean conditions and complexity
reads and also for the unique reads (table 3). For the exper- is usually limited. In addition, various elements of our protocol
iment with intermediate adapter length (A intermediate), that we introduced to increase robustness and efficiency also
the proportion of reads mapping to the reference lies between results in some limitations at the sequencing stage, particularly
that for the short and long adapters, indicating that libraries related to our use of barcodes. For samples that emerge from
with the longest adapters are captured least efficiently. The screening as particularly useful, and for which it seems of inter-
average coverage after duplication removal is highest for est to generate additional data and libraries, it may be of value
the ‘short’ adapters and lowest for the ‘long’ adapters, and to prepare new libraries that are non-barcoded, but indexed, to
does not differ much within each library group, probably allow sequencing to become independent of barcode balan-
reflecting the fact that the complexity of these three libraries cing. This is especially relevant for cases in which deep
is limited and all these libraries were sequenced to saturation. coverage of a small number of promising samples is the goal.

It is notable that barcoded libraries with short adapters per- Data accessibility. A manuscript about the data including population
form similarly to non-barcoded libraries with intermediate genetics findings is in preparation. The raw sequences are available
adapter length, with both showing approximately 72% of the on request from the corresponding author.
reads mapping to the target. Thus, the barcoding and single Acknowledgements. We are grateful to David Anthony and to Dorcas
indexing procedures are compromising capture efficiency, Brown for sharing bone samples. We thank Matthias Meyer and

Philip L. Johnson and the ancient DNA group in the Reich Laboratory
for helpful discussions, Steven McCarroll for sharing of laboratory
equipment, and two anonymous reviewers for helpful comments.
