the co-agonist-binding site at extrasynaptic locations, but this tic and extrasynaptic NMDARs in plasticity have mostly been
has never been addressed for SICs or any other manifestation inferred from results obtained on the role of NMDAR subunit
of extrasynaptic NMDAR activity. This puzzling aspect thus composition (in particular, GluN2B-NMDARs) in LTP and
needs further investigation. LTD. However, there seems to be no simple relationship

between cellular location and subunit composition in particu-
lar at ages most often used in those studies (approx. P20-P25,

7. Role of slow inward currents and tonic current see discussion above). It is thus notoriously hazardous to

form conclusions from works studying the involvement of

In physiology and pathology extrasynaptic NMDARs in synaptic plasticity (and, in fact,
The roles played by extrasynaptic NMDARs are still very elu- in any specific functions) based on their GluN2B pharmaco-
sive, mostly because specific and reliable tools to investigate logical profile. Activating or silencing specifically synaptic
them have been lacking so far. Some studies have reported or extrasynaptic NMDARs thus requires other types of
a role for non-synaptic NMDARs in various functions such approaches that do not rely on subunit composition. The
as extrasynaptic inhibition [95], or dynamic range com- main alternative is the use of the open-channel blocker
pression [96]. But, aside from presynaptic NMDARs [97,98], MK801, which allows inactivation of NMDARs that are
which are not addressed in this review, most studies have recruited while leaving the silent/not recruited receptors
focused on the manifestations of extrasynaptic NMDAR intact. When combined with low-frequency stimulation of
activity such as tonic currents and SICs. It is accepted that afferent fibres, this method allows the selective blockade
the tonic current mediated by extrasynaptic NMDARs plays of synaptic NMDARs and leaves intact most of their extra-
a role in the excitability of principal neurons and in modulat- synaptic counterparts [19,26,27,118,119]. Conversely, this
ing dendritic inputs [99]. It also becomes increasingly clear approach also allows the blockade of extrasynaptic NUDARs