most common in our study. effects of smoking on the immune response have also been ~
Regarding the reliability of the results, our subjects were extensively studied and will not be commented on further x
randomly chosen to avoid selection bias. The large subject here [25]. i
pool was representative of the ethnically homogeneous Swed- Gingivitis is one of the major public health problems all =
ish adult population, with age range of 10 years to limit the over the world. Hence, our present results are worth consid- S
influence of age differences. The study had a longitudinal pro- ering also in the context of global health programs. ~~
spective design with a cohort of subjects whose oral health Maintaining proper daily oral hygiene may thus be empha-
status was documented at baseline 26 years earlier. Gingivitis sized also in the light of preventing systemic diseases. As
was recorded based on the characteristic signs of inflammation, we have shown, even malignancies might link to poor daily
namely redness, oedema and glazing of the gingival tissue. It oral hygiene habits which, in turn, cause chronic dental dis-
can be argued that the gingivitis healed as a result of later eases such as gingivitis. In the perspective of the role of the
visits to a dentist. However, it should be borne in mind that inflammatory pathways in carcinogenesis, this may then
the patients in fact already had suffered from gingivitis for a result in poor outcome [26]. But further evidence is certainly
long time and also had a documented smoking history in needed to back up this conclusion.

1985. Both these factors may increase the risk for cancer devel-

opment later in life. Nevertheless, no causal conclusions can be Ethics statement. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of

drawn from the current results. the Karolinska Institutet and Huddinge University Hospital in
Knowing that smoking is one of the most important risk Sweden (Dnr 101/85 and revised in 2012/590-32). The study is in

factors for cancer [15], it is important to emphasize that in our accordance with the Helsinki Declaration.

study population pack-years of smoking were higher in the Funding statement. The study was supported by the Swedish Ministry of