0 0.1 0.5 “10 20 40 0 O01 0.5 10 20 40 0 O01 0.5 10 20 40
NP concentration tle ml!) NP concentration ove ml!) NP concentration ve ml!)

Figure 4. SP-D adsorption to 50 nm unmodified, amine-modified and carboxyl-modified polystyrene latex NPs. (a) Representative immunoblots of 50 nm poly-
styrene NP-associated SP-D. (b) Data represented as bar graphs as the mean and s.e.m. from all experiments. The intensity of the SP-D signal was quantified by
densitometry. Results are expressed as arbitrary units. Data represent mean + s.e.m. from at least three experiments. Asterisks indicate a significant difference
between treated samples and untreated control; *p < 0.05.

infection as a consequence of SP-D sequestration by NMs, AO-MWNTs would not be expected to reflect very large
depending on the amount deposited. In addition to its role differences in surface area, although our recent comparative
in host defence, SP-D is involved in the maintenance of sur- work [17] indicates that the topography of the AO-MWNTs
factant ultrastructure, lipid homeostasis and metabolism. In is very different from that of the pristine and P(4-PV)-
fact, SP-D—/— mice show a progressive accumulation of sur- MWNTs, being non-uniform, which may have further
factant in the lungs, due to impaired uptake by alveolar type enhanced interaction with SP-D.
II cells [1], indicating an important role in modulating surfac- To better understand how positively or negatively
tant recycling. Therefore, deposition of NMs in the alveolar charged groups on the surface of NMs affect SP-D binding,
region could hamper the normal surfactant functions due we extended the study to a well described NM model, poly-
to adsorption of SP-D. This study indicates that increasing styrene latex NPs, which we have fully characterized
the concentration of the NMs results in increased SP-D previously [24]. These NPs are widely used as a model to
adsorption, suggesting that this could also occur, and be study interactions between NPs and biological structures
important, in vivo. Moreover, formation of a ‘surfactant for many reasons, including their commercial availability,
protein corona’ [12,20] on NMs, might modify their destiny high-quality, homogeneity and wide variety of size and sur-
in the alveolar compartment, depending on the magnitude face chemistry [25]. We compared SP-D adsorption to
and profile of protein binding. This comparative study of unmodified, amine-modified and carboxyl-modified poly-
the propensity of NMs to adsorb SP-D illustrates the impor- styrene NPs. We used two sizes (50nm and 100nm) to