higher in recent H. sapiens, who experienced a recent evidence suggests a comparable level of altriciality in the
reduction in both body size and brain size [9]. two groups. However, in terms of shape, the anatomical dif-
As a result of these independent trajectories, Neandertals ferences observed between adult Neandertals and modern
and modern humans evolved brains displaying clear anatom- humans start to develop soon after birth and can be analysed
ical differences. Neandertals developed a larger brain along on immature specimens.
an allometric trajectory retaining most of the archaic charac- Neubauer et al. [59] quantified the ontogenetic shape
teristics present in the Middle Pleistocene common ancestor changes of the endocast between birth and adulthood in
of the two lineages. It resulted in a widening of the frontal recent modern humans and chimpanzees using GM on virtual
lobes, a more elevated shape and a relative reduction of the endocasts. They showed that, whereas modern H. sapiens and
occipital lobes [57]. By contrast, modern humans developed Pan differ in endocranial shape throughout postnatal onto-
a more globular shape of the brain primarily resulting geny, these two groups share a similar pattern of endocranial
from a bulging in the parietal areas and a ventral flexion shape changes following the eruption of the deciduous denti-
(figure 3). In addition, modern humans display a proportion- tion. In fact, the patterns of endocranial development from
ally larger cerebellum, larger olfactory bulbs and temporal late infancy to adulthood are similar among all extant
lobe poles, and a wider orbitofrontal cortex [118]. As the hominoids, suggesting a shared mode of endocranial develop-
skull develops and evolves as a tightly integrated struc- ment [124]. Modern humans, however, depart from this
ture [119], it is currently not well understood to what extent generalized pattern directly after birth: until the eruption of
endocranial shape differences primarily result from variation the deciduous dentition, the braincases of recent modern
in brain structure, or correlate with species differences in humans undergo a ‘globularization phase’ in which the
facial and mandibular size and shape. Whereas at least elongated neurocranial shape found in modern human new-
some endocranial changes in the frontal lobe [120] and tem- borns becomes more globular, with bulging parietal and
poral pole might arguably be related to changes in face and occipital bones [58,59]. These ontogenetic shape changes
mandible, the posterior cranial fossa has a good correlation seem to mirror the well-known adult shape differences
with the cerebellar lobes, and the bulging parietals of between modern and archaic humans, including Neandertals
modern humans have been linked to evolutionary reorganiz- [125-127]. Based on virtual reconstructions of Neandertal fos-