thermoregulatory demands (or even neutral evolutionary fundamental needs for pelvic balance in bipedal walking,
processes) in determining pelvic morphology in extinct hom- whereas changes in ischial and pubic shape are more com-
inin species could be illuminated by an assessment of sexual plex. Some researchers are convinced that the nature of
dimorphism, because obstetric constraints affect females, locomotion in early hominins was close to that of modern
whereas other selective pressures would presumably affect humans, and differences between australopithecines and
both sexes equally. In modern humans, for example, pelvic Homo reflect obstetric changes [11,20,21]. Other researchers
breadth is related to climate in the same manner in males take a different view and argue that there were major loco-
and females [13], but a number of features of the female motor differences between australopithecines and Homo (see
bony pelvis increase the size of the birth canal relative to [7,46,84]), and counter that pelvic differences reflect both
males [78]. Unfortunately, the fossil record of the hominin locomotor and obstetric needs. In this formulation, there
pelvis is so sparse that it is usually impossible to make were multiple phases of locomotor evolution in australopithe-
comparisons between male and female anatomy for any par- cines, and obstetric concerns played a relatively minor role
ticular species [17,36,79]. In fact, because evolution has until the evolution of Homo species and possibly not until
produced in fossil hominin pelvises ‘a combination of traits H. sapiens specifically.
in an extinct animal that is duplicated by no living creature’ In our estimation, early stages of hominin pelvic evolu-
[80, p. 110], it is often very difficult even to assign a sex to tion reflect clear pressures for locomotion without an
any given fossil [2,33,36,81—83]. obvious nod towards either obstetric or thermoregulatory

A rare glimpse of pelvic sexual dimorphism in an early pressures. Although such pressures were certainly present
hominin is provided by the recently described 1.9Myr old prior to 2 Ma, they were neither dominant nor even equal to
South African species Australopithecus sediba. These fossils pressures of bipedal locomotion on pelvic form. Whatever
have garnered attention because of their age (close to some the adaptive or functional significance of australopithecine

of the oldest specimens of Homo erectus) and because of pelvic morphology may be, it is intriguing that virtually the
