example, classic studies of rats showed that variation in nutri- ‘tug-of-war’ over the pool of maternal resources potentially s
tion in early life exerted lifelong effects on body size and available for investment in the offspring. Haig [58] further a
proportions [46,47]. Observational data on humans are con- described how offspring hormones manipulate metabolism in — 2:
sistent, showing that early growth variability tracks on into order to increase the supply of nutrients through the placenta, 5
later life [48], while rickets during development is well and maternal physiology responds by reducing nutrient trans- =
established to constrain growth of the pelvis [49]. fer, while a similar behavioural tug-of-war characterizes =
Indeed, the primary period of human growth plasticity lactation [59]. The same scenario applies to the duration of 2
comprises fetal life and infancy, and these developmental gestation, which introduces an additional axis of variability ©
stages also represent the period of maternal care. Maternal phe- into the resolution of the obstetric dilemma [60]. =
notype is thus the primary source of ecological signals to which The fetus has no direct exposure to the environment, so =
the developing offspring adapts [37,38,50]. I have argued that what makes it adapt is the tension applied by maternal physi- =
this overlap is no coincidence, and that offspring traits retain ology within the tug-of-war, and if there were no tension, no -
plasticity for as long as they remain within the protective adaptation could occur. The fact that the fit between the neo- 2
umbrella of maternal buffering [37,51]. When this buffering natal head and the maternal pelvis is generically tight in S
is withdrawn (at birth for some traits, and at the end of lactation Homo sapiens suggests that the tug-of-war over size at birth w
for others), many traits become canalized and track over time. has been especially strongly contested. What therefore is it  °
Absolute size of body components may continue to increase, that prevents each party from ‘surrendering its position’? 3
but relative differences between individuals persist. &
Any renegotiated resolution of the obstetric dilemma is Ka}

therefore sensitive to the regulation of offspring development

by maternal phenotype. Compounding the one-generation 5. Why cannot the offspring be smaller?

time-lag between maternal and offspring growth, the com- Recognizing that the obstetric dilemma as classically described