
lapping portions of auditory cortex. However, multivariate
pattern classification analyses indicated that within the

regions of overlap, speech and music elicited distinguishable (b) Functional magnetic resonance imaging adaptation
patterns of activation in the STGs. In addition, speech (jab- Although the nature of the blood oxygen-level-dependent
berwocky sentences) elicited more ventrolateral activation, (BOLD) signal and its spatial resolution do not allow for
whereas music (novel melodies) elicited a more dorsomedial directly identifying which neurons are active in response to a
pattern extending into the parietal lobe. These findings high- given stimulus, we can take advantage of the nonlinear
light the existence of overlapping but distinct networks for dynamics of neural activity to indirectly address this question,
music and speech within the same cortical areas. Similarly, by using the so-called fMRI adaptation paradigm [39]. This
Abrams et al. [36] used multivariate pattern analysis for natural approach, based on the principle of neuronal adaptation/
and scrambled music and speech excerpts and also found dis- habituation, relies on the fact that the observed BOLD signal
tinct brain patterns of responses to the two categories of to successive stimuli depends on whether they stimulate the
sounds in several regions within the temporal lobe and the same or different neurons. That is, the activity associated
inferior frontal cortex. Therefore, the pattern of neural acti- with two stimuli will be smaller if they activate the same neur-
vation was distinct between music and speech, although onal pool than if they stimulate different neurons. Although
there was overlap in the areas activated by the two domains. adaptation is strongest when repeating the same stimulus, it
It is important to point out that, even if the stimuli are can also be observed when different exemplars from the
matched for emotional content, attention, memory, subjective same category are presented, and can thus be used to identify
interest, arousal and familiarity [36], any observed category those brain regions in which different types of stimuli share a
differences in activation strengths and/or patterns could be common neural representation.
owing to acoustical differences. In order to avoid this con- Thus, in a region that responds to both speech and music,
found, at least to some extent, one can use sung melodies we would expect within-domain (i.e. speech-speech and
and spoken lyrics from songs. These are optimal stimuli music—music) adaptation. If the attenuation remains when