

Box 1. Do genes contribute?

Even without molecular data, it is possible to investigate contributions of genetic factors to phenotypes of interest. For a
qualitatively defined trait, such as presence or absence of a particular disorder, researchers can ask whether cases tend to
cluster within families and assess whether inheritance is consistent with simple single-gene patterns of transmission, or
more likely to involve multiple factors. Increased incidence of a trait in relatives of a proband is often taken as evidence
of genetic involvement, but could also be due to environmental factors that are shared by family members. Twin studies
allow these types of contributing factors to be teased apart. In its simplest form, this approach assesses concordance of a phe-
notype in pairs of identical twins (who have almost identical genomes) and compares it to the concordance seen for pairs of
non-identical twins (who share around 50% of their genetic variations, just like non-twin siblings). Elevated concordance in
the identical twins provides evidence of genetic involvement. In fact, twin designs typically go further by directly incorpor-
ating quantitative trait data and using the twin-twin correlation structure to partition the phenotypic variation into that due
to additive genetic factors, common environment (shared by twins) and unique environment (unshared by twins). The pro-
portion of phenotypic variance that is accounted for by genetics gives a formal estimate of heritability. Statistical tools have
become more sophisticated over the years, and it is now routine to apply structural equation modelling and maximum-
likelihood methods to large twin datasets, asking questions that extend far beyond heritability estimation. What is the

a contribution of genetic factors at different ages, and is this due to the same or different sets of genes? How much of the

S covariance between two correlated traits involves common genetic and/or environmental contributions? Are sex differences

5 likely to play a role? Is there evidence of gene—environment interaction or correlation underlying a trait? Quantitative
