called ‘learner bottleneck’. Any given learner is only exposed The pattern of ‘resonance neighbourhoods’ in auditory
to a portion of the cultural lore extant in the population into system tonotopy is likely to be shared by all mammals, being
which they are born and has, moreover, a limited capacity to a product of quite elementary properties of the neural circuitry
absorb even the portion to which they are exposed. This in question. It did not evolve for purposes of music, in other
means that the many items that make up that lore compete words, but as an incidental by-product of the interaction of
with each other for passage to the next generation. Through excitation and inhibition in a neural system evolved to process
this competitive filtering process any and all aspects of the natural sounds efficiently [20]. Not being confined to humans
lore that bear on transmittability, including small differences [28,29], it is not likely to represent an adaptation to music.
in learnability and ease of processing, come to transform the The presence in humans of cultural patterns of musical practice
cultural corpus in predictable ways, amounting to a cumulative conforming to these subtle resonances in auditory physiology
process of informational ‘compression’ over many generations. accordingly requires an explanation.

This tends to issue in a tight fit between properties of the The fact that those musical practices are, indeed, cultural
cultural lore and properties of the learner, introducing com- patterns formed by inter-generational transmission may
monalities across the lore of different, separated, populations, supply the explanation. In principle, the formal powers of
all without the agency of biological selection. cultural evolution should suffice to allow musical practice

In the field of language evolution, this mechanism which we to eventually find its way to the ubiquitous and inherent res-
refer to as ‘cultural evolution’ has been extensively studied over onant biases of the auditory system, given a long running
the past two decades (e.g. [13—16]). This work has led to a grow- cultural tradition of song [30]. Through the external loop of

ing consensus (i) that cultural evolution is a powerful inter-generational transmission of learned musical lore, the


OeeUry