that in these animals we have the only documented instances
besides our own of genuine beat-based group synchrony that

6. Constraint no. 5: motivational basis

plays a role in the natural behaviour of the species in question. Wherever humans live, and however they have organized their
These species therefore may provide us with invaluable hints societies, they exhibit a behavioural peculiarity of gathering from
regarding our own path to this rare behaviour by comparative time to time to sing and dance together in a group [1-3]. By fea-
scrutiny of its functions and evolution in these insects. turing both human song (Constraint no. 3) and entrainment

The reason for the sparse distribution of the capacity for (in the dancing movements and perhaps clapping performed
mutual beat-based entrainment in nature is not far to seek. It in synchrony with the singing /music, Constraint no. 4), such
resides in the apparent lack of its general biological utility, behaviour qualifies as human music. Indeed, the fact that it
being virtually useless, with a very few narrowly constrained occurs in every human culture, and indeed subculture, without
exceptions. As far as is presently known, the functions it exception, unless deliberately suppressed by severe sanctions
serves where it features in the behavioural repertoire of non- against it, marks this phenomenon as the most universal
human species in the wild are confined to special cases of human behaviour of a musical kind on record.
mate attraction and predation defence (reviewed in [79,80]). In its ubiquity, this human propensity for occasiona’
Among the former the so-called ‘beacon effect’ [85] takes group singing and dancing would seem to constitute a proto-
pride of place, featuring thousands of synchronously signalling typical musical behaviour, all the more so as it can be staged
male fireflies whose entrainment precision falls at the more entirely without musical instruments (as in the traditiona’
skilled end of the human range, with a standard deviation in trance dance of the hunter—gatherers of the Kalahari Desert
period length of less than 3% [83]. Through their entrained [88], see also [89]). It may in fact represent the motivationa
luminescent signalling, single trees of permanent male congre- core of the human capacity for music from which its many
gations are converted to flashing ‘beacons’ visible from all other manifestations may have developed by differentiation,