blocks for recombination. This is suggested by non-random ities: the probability of generating the next word only depends
association of particular sequences in various bird species, to on what the current word is. In this respect, n-gram models
which we return below. are equivalent to (n — 1)th-order Markov models over the

In summary, the issues and challenges concerning the same alphabet. Shannon demonstrated with word counts
choice of building blocks are fundamental for the forms of from corpora that the higher n is, the better one can predict
sequential model and model representation we discuss the next word (given a corpus that is sufficiently large). This
below. However, the present state of the art offers no final insight still forms a crucial component in many engineering
word that may settle the differences between proposals for applications in speech recognition and machine translation [49].
building blocks and the relations between different choices. n-Gram models (often simple bigrams) have also been fre-
It remains a matter of future research to explore the extent quently applied to bird song [50-54] and music [55,56] (see
to which different types of music and animal vocalizations below for further details). For many bird species, bigrams in
may require different choices of building blocks and to per- fact seem to give a very adequate description of the sequential
form an empirical comparison of different approaches: structure. Chatfield & Lemon [51] studied the song of the car-
although it seems natural to want to settle on the question dinal, and reported that a 3-gram (trigram) model modelled
of what the building blocks are before investigating how song data only marginally better than a bigram model
these building blocks are combined into sequences, it might (measured by the likelihood of the data under each of these
be necessary to study both issues at the same time. models). More recent work with birds raised with artificially

constructed songs indicates that transitional probabilities
between adjacent elements are the most important factor in
the organization of the songs also in zebra finches and Benga-

1
3. Shannon's n “grams lese finches [57], although there are also many examples of bird