revealed that breast cancer co-distributes with light pollution als with low vision perception [41] and totally blind animals [42]
worldwide, whereas the correlation analysis failed to establish display functional photo-entrained circadian responses such
any significant relation between light at night and negative as circadian shifting, melatonin suppression and thermoregula-
controls, colorectal, larynx and liver cancers. tion. Overall, these studies suggest that both the image- forming
Typically, bedroom spectral and irradiance compositions and non-image-forming photoreceptor pathways work
originating from indoor or outdoor illumination (light filter- simultaneously to provide complete circadian perception.
ing through windows) are expected to be characterized Generally, the literature suggests that women have longer
by both low wavelength frequencies and low irradiance habitual sleep time with 7-9 h in bed [43-46], higher melato-
levels, particularly during the duration of nocturnal sleep. nin amplitude and earlier melatonin peak levels compared
Indoor dim light signals during nocturnal sleep time can with counterpart men [47]. Furthermore, tendencies for
still penetrate throughout closed eyelids and be detected via reduced sleep efficiencies and sleep difficulties of women
sensitive retinal photoreceptors to regulate circadian have been also reported recently [48]. Taking into account
functions. Supportively, the ‘blind’ mole rat Spalax ehernbergi, the sleeping patterns described for women and the fact that
can detect light of both short and long wavelengths (479 nm light can certainly penetrate closed eyelids and efficiently
and 697nm, respectively) under increasing light intensities alter circadian responses, bedroom ALAN should be of
(73-498 pW cm™?), though the eyes of the species are concern to women, particularly in modern societies.
severely degenerate and the vestigial retina is completely con- In a comparative case-control study, the relations between

cealed by a thick integument of skin and fur [25-27]. night illumination conditions (emerging from outdoor and


indoor lighting) in the sleeping habitat and breast cancer risk
were assessed for 1679 Israeli women (794 breast cancer
patients and 885 controls) [49]. The results revealed a signifi-
cant association between breast cancer incidence and ALAN