. . The light treatment has a clear effect on the year-to-year change
4, Discussion in presence of individual species at our sites. Interestingly, the = §
To assess the effects of long-term light at night exposure on eco- treatment effect in consecutive seasons was statistically not 8
systems, we have set up a replicated ecosystem-wide long-term different between years, and the change in numbers was
monitoring study on the response of species to the long-term most positive at the illuminated transects. It is not clear what
presence of light of different wavelengths, in the absence of may have caused these differences. Possible explanations
any other anthropogenic disturbance. With the set-up of this may, for example, be the breeding biology of species, avail-
worldwide unique study, we created the exciting possibility to ability of prey species, and changes in competition between
study different taxa and species groups at the same location, species. If these trends observed during the first 2 years of
and potentially to identify long-term population consequences the monitoring continue, this would imply that densities
and cascading effects in the ecosystem. The consequence of this of birds will increase at illuminated sites. Whether the birds
generic approach is, however, that the set-up is not optimized that breed near the lampposts do well in term of reproductive
for any of the species groups studied. Despite this fact, after success is a different question (see reference [19]). If not,
2 years we are already able to demonstrate effects of light at illumination may form an ecological trap when attracting
night and spectral composition on three species groups (mice, birds to locations where their fitness is reduced [57].
bats and birds), but not in the fourth group studied (moths).
(d) Moths
(a) Mice At present there are, so far, no measureable effects on moths
Wood mice show a very clear response to all light treatments. by the experimental lights. This is unexpected, as lights—
The response of rodents to moonlight has been studied especially those with short wavelengths such as green and
extensively [44-46] and is most likely related to perceived white—do attract moths [30,32]. The attraction may have
predation risk [44,47]. It is widely known that activity of noc- severe fitness consequences: moths attracted into the vicinity
turnal rodents is suppressed by light [48,49], but the of lights may be predated by bats hunting around the
information on how mice react to (experimental) artificial lampposts, or may not be able to deposit eggs on the local
light in the field is limited. De Molenaar et al. [50] did not vegetation, or be affected in other life-history stages [58].