division rate, or the addition of one to two copies of a cancer that can be universally applied across species, even in
tumour suppressor gene would be sufficient to compensate organisms such as plants and algae that have very different
for a 1000x increase in the number of cells in an organism. tissue structures from animals. They argue that all forms of com-
However, these estimates are based on models of carcino- plex multicellularity involve five forms of cellular cooperation
genesis that do not include natural selection (i.e. clonal in order to (i) inhibit somatic cell proliferation, (ii) enforce
expansion). Natural selection makes many realistic mathemat- controlled cell death, (iii) transport and allocate resources
ical models intractable, because cell lineages can no longer be throughout the body, (iv) specialize on tasks for the good of
treated as independent of each other. The models used by the organisms with a division of labour, and (v) maintain the
Caulin et al. [32], the algebraic models of Nunney [4] and extracellular environment. Cancer, in any organism, can be
Calabrese & Shibata [38] and a stochastic Fisher—Wright understood as cheating within each of these forms of cooperation.
model [39] all assume neutral somatic evolution. So do the Comparative oncology can also help to reveal the mechan-
models of [3,37,40]. isms of carcinogenesis. The Ewalds [45] show that one
Peto’s paradox implies that the life-history strategy of a regularity across species is the fact that infectious agents often
species has led to selection for more or less cancer suppression. cause neoplasms. This can be seen in the galls and boils in
Life-history theory provides a powerful tool for developing plants as well as many of the cancers reported in zoos and dom-
the theory of Peto’s paradox. Three chapters in this issue esticated animals. The dynamics of infectious agents adds a
have capitalized on this opportunity. Brown et al. [28] use the further level of selection to the already multilevel selection
Euler—Lotka population model to formalize the trade-offs involved in cancer. Most carcinogenic agents are viruses, prob-
between fecundity and cancer suppression. Cancer suppres- ably because the virus gains a selective advantage from causing
sion should be strongest in organisms where the chance of their host cells to replicate.
non-cancer death decreases with age (e.g. alligators), fecundity Comparative oncology also highlights the importance of
increases with age (e.g. male elephants), maturation is delayed metabolism in cancer. There is a strong negative correl-
and fecundity rates are low. Their model can explain the un- ation between organism size and metabolic rate, and this
usually high rates of cancer experienced by modern humans may provide a general mechanism to explain Peto’s paradox,
in comparison to other species. Brown & Aktipis [41] extend regardless of cancer type [32]. Dang [46] reviews the growing