As an example, and entirely speculatively, let us suppose the only solution. What seems to me to be necessary to S
that visual area A has an ongoing alpha cycle and visual area emphasize in the future, far more than we have in the past,
B has another alpha cycle, not in phase with that of area A is the apparently ubiquitous asynchronous operations of the = 2.
(whether separate visual areas have their own alpha cycles brain. Ss
is not known). When the subject views a stimulus consisting Computer technologists, who were relatively late in ©
of two attributes, say colour and motion, the desynchroniza- understanding the power of parallel systems [130] and who -5
tion between the alpha activity in the two areas becomes have never acknowledged the primacy of anatomists in unco- = ==
maximal, since stimuli cause desynchronizations, the so- vering the parallel operations of the visual brain [61], are now S
called evoked response desynchronization [126]. If alpha seeking to develop a new generation of computers that are -
rhythms in area A and area B, which in this speculative argu- faster and more efficient than the present generation of com- 2
ment are asynchronous with respect to each other, can puters [1]. The defining feature of such computers is that they S
nevertheless coincide in their cycle with the hippocampal operate asynchronously. w
theta rhythm or be related to it in some temporal way, sig- The brain may, in fact, be much more like asynchronous = =
nifying that the two events occurred concurrently, and are computers than synchronous ones. 3
read as such by hippocampal ‘reader’ neurons [127], then Or rather, asynchronous, parallel, computers may end up &
the two separate events may be perceived as if bound. being much more like the brain than parallel, synchronous ones. = =

(Arnold [26] writes similarly of coincidence detectors.) In
fact, it is known that there are unique firing patterns in the

hippocampus that correlate with unique visual events (see Acknowledgement. I am grateful to Jaime Gomez and Andreas Bartels for

[128] for a review). Hence, it is the relationship of two desyn- useful comments on earlier versions of the manuscript.

chronized rhythms to the rhythm in the hippocampus that Funding statement. The work of this laboratory is supported by the