multi-unit (MU) activity at the stimulation site has a leftward heading preference, microstimulation should lead to more leftward choices such that the psychometric
function is shifted to the right. By contrast, stimulating sites with a rightward heading preference should cause a leftward shift of the psychometric function. PSE,
point of subjective equality. (b) Predicted effects of reversible inactivation on heading discrimination performance. Muscimol injection suppresses neural activity
(inset) in a large region and is expected to reduce the precision of heading discrimination, leading to a shallower psychometric function. (c) Example microstimula-
tion experiment at a site with a leftward heading preference. Psychometric functions for stimulated (dashed curves) and non-stimulated (solid curves) trials in
fesponse to vestibular (black), low-coherence visual (red) and combined (green) stimuli. (d) Example inactivation experiment. Visual psychometric functions
were collected during four separate sessions: a control block before muscimol injection (‘Pre’, dashed curves and cross symbols), a block immediately after inac-
tivation (‘0 h’, orange), a block 12 h after inactivation (‘12 h’, red) and a recovery block 36h after inactivation (‘36 h’, black solid curves and open symbols).

performance on vision-only trials, performance on vestibular- posterior sylvian area [120] and the ventral intraparietal area
only and multisensory trials was minimally influenced (VIP) [121,122], all of which contain neurons with responses
(figure 6c). The weak effects on vestibular heading perception that are either dominated by vestibular inputs or have more
were probably due to the fact that tuning of MSTd neurons balanced representations of visual and vestibular signals than
for heading based on vestibular signals is relatively weak. MSTd, which is visually dominated. Macaque area VIP has
Because of this weak vestibular tuning, microstimulation also been shown to respond to tactile and auditory stimuli, as
may have failed to activate sufficiently large clusters of MSTd well as visual inputs [123-125]. Electrical microstimulation of
neurons with consistent vestibular heading preferences. VIP evokes behaviourally relevant motor actions, including
To counter some of the limitations of microstimulation, Gu defensive postures or avoidance movements [126].
et al. [117] also injected muscimol into MSTd to test how inac- Interestingly, even though microstimulation and inacti-
tivation of this area impacts heading perception. Suppressing vation of area MSTd biased and impaired heading perception,
MSTd activity using large bilateral injections of muscimol respectively, behavioural cue integration continued to be near-
significantly impaired heading perception and increased be- optimal [117]. These results, supported by model simulations,
havioural thresholds (figure 6d). The threshold changes were suggest that optimal cue integration for heading perception is
largest for the visual condition, intermediate for the multisen- a distributed operation that involves additional populations of
sory condition and weakest for the vestibular condition, again heading selective neurons located outside of MSTd. Similarly,