an aberrant manner, not based on evidence.®

(b) Desires and motivation upon the cursory consideration undertaken here, we can
Motivational states are the folk psychological states most offer a provisional answer to the eliminativist challenge:
often reported as being influenced by DBS. Because stimu- although there are local challenges to agency in individual

lation sites for many Parkinson’s, Tourette’s and OCD cases (in that while DBS may augment or improve agency


in some ways, it may also be detrimental in others), none of best efforts to determine what course to take in practical situ- 6 |

the cases here considered is difficult to reconcile with the ations, and to understand the theoretical basis for our
folk taxonomy we use to discuss agency. In fact, so far as deliberations more broadly. A more nuanced way of concep- a
the case reports go, side effects of DBS seem to be described tualizing agency both philosophically and in the contexts of s
as altering a person’s desires, leading to unfounded or interventions needs to be developed. a
irrational beliefs, or an inability to rationally assess or I suggest that we instead envision agency as represented — 2:
adjust his or her mental state. In many ways, it seems that in a multidimensional space whose axes are yet to be deter- “5
DBS side effects can be described as causing a brittleness or mined. The previous section raised the question of whether =
inflexibility in folk-psychologically framed cognitive or there is some theoretically neutral way of determining what =
emotional states that under normal conditions would be those axes ought to be. If the reader has some ideas of how ‘>
more flexible, malleable and easier to integrate into the rest to get traction on this vexing problem, I would welcome his
of the psychological make-up of the person. or her input. But without that, I suggest trying to harness = -5
If this is correct, then the prima facie result is that the tools from statistics (such as multidimensional scaling or =
eliminativist challenge fails. However, there is a deeper meth- principal component analysis) to try to determine what =
odological question that we cannot now answer concerning dimensions are most descriptive of agency. This would -