notion is, as we shall see, not entirely without precedent, but
no one previously had thought to relate such an abstruse
phenomenon to the question of biological growth and form—
in short, to suggest how chemistry alone might initiate the pro-
cess that leads from a ball of cells to a starfish, a horse or to us.

Figure 1. Alan Turing (1912-1954). Copyright © The Royal Society.

machine and to a human foil, and seeks to identify which

2. The codeb rea ker is which. If there is no discernible difference in the responses,
A decade ago, the English mathematician Alan Turing, despite we have no logical reason to deny that the machine is think-
being an almost legendary figure to many scientists and the ing. This idea (adapted by the science fiction writer Philip
subject of an excellent biography [2], was largely unknown K. Dick as the ‘Voigt-Kampff test’) was famously used in
to the general public. If recent television dramatizations and the opening sequence of Ridley Scott’s 1982 movie Blade
stories about his wartime code-breaking work at Bletchley runner to identify non-human ‘replicants’.
Park had not already changed that, then the 2014 biographical Turing was actively homosexual at a time when this was
movie The imitation game has surely done so. The centenary of illegal in Britain. In 1952 he was prosecuted, and his sexual
his birth in 1912 was marked with a number of commemora- orientation was deemed to pose a security risk in view of
tive events and eulogies, which highlighted in particular the his wartime work (some of which remained classified for
shameful treatment he received after the war, precipitating the rest of the century). He was sentenced to take a course
what is generally thought to have been his suicide. of ‘corrective’ hormone therapy, and although Turing is
Turing (figure 1) studied mathematics at Cambridge, said to have borne this sentence with ‘amused fortitude’,
where he published perhaps his most important work at the the shame and the physical effects of the hormone seem to
age of just 24. In that paper, he showed that there exist some have driven him to take his life in 1954 by biting on an