and old donors. n = 4 young (light grey) and n =5 old donors (dark grey), s.e.m., Mann—Whitney U tests were carried out such that *p < 0.05 and
p < 0.09 is written above.

IGHD2 and IGHD3 in older cells (figure 3b). Analysis of indi- with age. However, we have also shown that exogenous
vidual genes, rather than family usage, identified significant antigen-inexperienced B cells may also have a changed reper-
increases in IGHV1-—2 and IGHV1—69 usage and a signifi- toire in older people, so some changes in memory cells may
cant decrease in IGHV3-15, IGHV3-30-3 and IGHV3-48 be a reflection of an altered repertoire in the first instance.
usage within old transitional cells (figure 3c). Analysis of indi- To address this, we looked at the relative frequencies of
vidual IGHD genes highlighted a decreased use of IGHD3-9 immunoglobulin gene use in naive versus memory cells.
and IGHD3~—10 alongside an increased use of IGHD3-—3 and Analysis of IGHD family and IGH]J gene (DJ) combination fre-
IGHD6-—6 with age. No age-related changes were seen within quencies between antigen-inexperienced cells (transitional
IGH] gene usage (figure 3d). Consistent with these gene and naive), IgM* memory cells and switched memory cells
changes, together with the fact that IGHD genes make up identified that not only is there a biased use of gene combin-
a large part of the CDR-H3 region, age-related changes in ations, even in antigen-inexperienced cells (naive and
hydrophobicity and aliphatic index were also seen in transitional), but that this selection can change as cells
antigen-inexperienced cells (figure 3e,f). become memory (figure 4a). The choice of DJ] combination

gene impacts the CDR-H3 length, as they compose 85% of
the CDR-H3, and it is clear that even within a particular
size DJ combination size there are biases towards specific

(d) Alteration in antigen selection pressures on /GHD

and IGHJ usage within older memory cells combinations (figure 4a). In the young group, four combi-
The above data indicate that age affects the immunoglobulin nations increase in both IgM* and switched memory cells