Keywords:

THE ROYAL SOCIETY

PUBLISHING © 2015 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


proposals have from time to time been advanced that difficult concern arising from cases in the early 2000s.° This call for | 2 |

issues of expert evidence, particularly science, should not be reform was picked up by the Law Commission who, follow-
left to a jury. The judge should hear the evidence and make a ing consultation, produced an excellent and comprehensive a
decision. In other systems, a single expert may play a great report on expert evidence in criminal proceedings.* One of s
role. But even though we approach fact finding through a the principal concerns of the Law Commission was that a
different prism, the ultimate responsibility must rest upon expert evidence was being admitted too readily and with 2
the judge or judges to ensure that the expert is asked the too little scrutiny of its reliability by judges. Recommen- S
right questions, that the evidence given is fairly presented, dations were made for the introduction of a statutory s
that the accused is given a proper opportunity to challenge admissibility or reliability test (a proposal which the senior = 2.
it and the decision on that evidence is logically explicable. judiciary supported), a list of factors to assist judges in apply- “2
To that end, therefore, in whatever system forensic ing tests and the codification of existing law. These proposals
evidence is given, it is necessary to ensure: aimed to provide a surer basis for the admissibility of expert — -s
evidence and to avoid the risk of the jury being confused and = =
(i) that the expert evidence has a reliable scientific base; distracted by complex and conflicting accounts. As I 5
(ii) that the scientists giving evidence are themselves reliable; explained in my Kalisher lecture, the Report has largely -
(ii) that the ambit of the expert's opinion is properly been implemented, even though no primary legislation has -,
understood; been enacted. a