ary for determination of an issue that is relevant to guilt or
innocence, and second, the provision of an evaluative opinion
on the strength of that evidence. It is important, however, to
emphasize that the role of the expert cannot be seen as in any
way extending to the issue of guilt or innocence.

(b) The strength of the evaluative opinion both in relation to civil and criminal proceedings, we have
It is not necessary to say anything further about the giving of taken steps to ensure that the area in which dispute remains
primary scientific evidence, but a word is necessary on evalua- is clearly identified.

tive evidence. It is, I think, nowhere disputed that a scientist is However, that does not obviate the need for the court,
entitled and in most cases must express an evaluative opinion whether it be judge or jury, to have a proper understanding
as to the conclusion to be drawn from the primary facts on of those areas upon which the experts are agreed. In some
which he gives evidence. However, it is very important to cases, the way in which the matters upon which they are
stress that a scientist cannot give evidence which is expressed agreed has been properly explained by one of the experts.
in terms that his opinion supports (or does not support) the But that is not always the case. Furthermore, it is exceptionally
defence or prosecution case. His opinion goes to the likelihood wasteful of the time of experts (and hence an unnecessary
of, for example, fingerprints being those of the accused or cost) for the underlying and agreed basis of the science to be
marks being made are marks that were made by a particular produced separately on each occasion.

object. There can be no doubt that an expert can use his experi- Hence, following the practice developed in the Patents
ence to give a judgment on such matters. More difficult, Court (where often the sums at stake are large enough for

however, is the question as to the extent to which such an the court to require bespoke explanations of the underlying
