(and otherwise implicitly assuming) ‘adversarial’ trial pro- jurisdictionally national (or state) default-setting. In particular,
cedure. The theory of adversarialism presupposes that the the generation, admissibility and uses of forensic science evi-
prosecution’s case, including any expert evidence on which dence are still predominantly regulated by national courts.
the prosecution proposes to reply, will be open to scrutiny One must consequently be wary of overgeneralizing from the
and vigorous cross-examination by the defence, lending peculiarities of individual legal systems or casually extrapo-
piquancy to criticism (14), the possibility of ‘adversarial lating from one legal jurisdiction to another or others that
deficit’. Defence lawyers will not, in general, be able to con- may well exhibit significant procedural, cultural or practical
duct an informed evaluation of the strengths and differences. So far as criminal law is concerned, the relevant
weaknesses of scientific evidence adduced by the prosecution jurisdiction is England and Wales—and English criminal
unless they can instruct their own well-qualified scientific procedure law is this article’s primary reference point.
advisors. Less adversarial (or ‘inquisitorial’) systems of Expert evidence, of fact or opinion, is admissible in Eng-
criminal adjudication prefer to dispense with courtroom chal- lish criminal trials when it is both relevant and helpful’® to
lenges to scientific evidence, characteristically relying on the fact-finder in discharging its adjudicative responsibilities.
the uncontradicted evidence and advice of court-appointed Unhelpful expert testimony is superfluous at best, and poss-
experts. This manner of proceeding pre-empts some well- ibly worse than useless in potentially confusing the issue and
known difficulties—including criticisms (15) and (16) relating imposing avoidable costs on litigation. Such evidence is inad-
to real and imagined scientific disagreements—but tends missible, not only at law, but also as a direct extrapolation
to create or exacerbate mirror-image problems. Local commen- from the basic canons of rationality. ‘Helpfulness’ is a flexible
tators worry that inquisitorially minded judges defer too standard requiring fact-sensitive contextual application. Trial
readily to the orthodox opinions of well-credentialed experts, judges are sometimes called upon to make close judgement
which escape rigorous testing—potentially risking miscar- calls, weighing up the anticipated probative value of the evi-
riages of justice. Such observations generalize throughout dence in resolving disputed facts, against its potential for
contemporary comparative law scholarship. Rival procedural mischief. The Court of Appeal is unlikely to interfere,
models present a suite of options, but no magic bullets or pana- unless the trial judge’s decision has strayed off into what
ceas. The perceived weaknesses of one model are frequently common lawyers call ‘Wednesbury unreasonableness’.'°