a clear distinction between ‘facts’ and ‘opinions’, where in


reality there is a continuum defined by different levels of Expert evidence deemed adequate for one juridical purpose | 4 |

granularity in the description of factual inferences from (e.g. family proceedings) may be inadmissible in a criminal
observations. Like all other evidence, some expert witness tes- trial, owing, for example, to more exacting fair trial and a
timony—e.g. chemical analysis of suspected narcotics—lies due process requirements and the higher standard of proof 5
towards the brute ‘fact’ pole, while other testimony—e.g. a in criminal proceedings. Prosaic institutional realities must
medical diagnosis or a scientist’s assessment of the likelihood not be overlooked in comparative modelling. We need to be
of the persistence of transferred material—lies more towards concerned not merely with the formalistic ‘law in the
the ‘opinion’ pole. One might expect genuine experts to agree books’, but also with the sociological realities of ‘the law in
about authentic scientific facts, whereas genuine differences action’. Criticism (14), for example, is as much concerned =
of opinion are commonplace among specialists. However, with the availability of competent experts willing to takeon ‘2
one might just as well say that scientific facts are those matters defence work and the provision of state-funded legal aid to ©
about which genuine experts agree, whereas opinions allow for pay for them as it is with overarching models of criminal — =
good faith disagreements. There is, in other words, no indepen- procedure. Provision of legally aided defence expertise in =
dent criterion to arbitrate the institutionally constructed the USA appears threadbare from a British perspective S
borderline differentiating facts from opinions. (cf. [38]); though this is no excuse for self-satisfied compla- -
Positive law defines the material ‘issues’ for criminal cency, and it must be said that the future of publicly 2
litigation at two distinct levels of analysis, which operate funded defence forensics in English criminal proceedings S
cumulatively. First, substantive criminal law specifies the does not, at this point in time, seem very rosy. w
elements of criminal offences that must be proved to secure a Orthodox accounts of legal jurisdiction must confront the = 2
conviction, alongside general doctrines of liability, excuse emergent realities of globalization and cosmopolitan juris- ©
and justification. The boundaries of substantive criminal liab- prudence. Today, law characteristically travels, crosses s