and regional case studies [63,64]. more generally affect people.

The third flashpoint concerns who is entitled to consider- More recently, spatially aggregated data have been used to
ation and compensation related to eviction or displacement. explore the relationship between distributions of protected
Many of the most vocal and vituperous disputes about evic- areas and distributions of poverty [5,76—78]. These have the
tions and displacement have focused on indigenous people, advantage of being able to control for the effects of isolation
who are generally viewed as deserving consideration and com- and lack of infrastructure that can cause poverty, but are not
pensation. By contrast, being classified as ‘not indigenous’ necessarily a consequence of conservation policy, as well as cap-
places even legitimate rights holders and important stake- turing the local multiplying economic consequences that forces
holders at a disadvantage [65]. Goldman recounts the efforts like tourism can produce. However, because they use spatially
the World Bank made to avoid relocating indigenous people, aggregated data, they are weaker at portraying the smaller scale
by having them reclassified as not indigenous [66]. In classic distribution of fortune and misfortune around protected areas.
cases such as Mkomazi and the Ngorongoro Crater Area This weakness, combined with the fact that we cannot infer
(both in Tanzania), there were vigorous disputes as to who cause from spatial correlation without very strong, untestable
could be called the rightful residents of the area, and should assumptions, makes understanding causal relationships hard.
be allowed to remain, despite the presence of conservation Reviews of this work do not necessarily solve the pro-
restrictions [32,67]. Similarly people who are not indigenous blems of understanding causes because they have to take a
make vigorous and often justifiable claims to resource and scattergun approach, using studies from all over the world
property rights. The most well-publicized example of this is that fulfil their quality criteria [15]. This can entail comparing
the example of the rubber tappers of the Brazilian Amazon— protected areas in Norway, Sweden, Mexico and Thailand
people of mixed heritage who relocated to their current lands (for example), which exist in completely different political,
only in the past century [68]. Likewise, on Sibuyan Island, Phi- economic and_ socio-historical contexts. It is difficult to
lippines, WWF worked with the indigenous Sibuyan Mangyan make such comparisons robustly.

Tagabukid to gain title to lands that overlap with Mount Clearly, one of the priorities for further evaluations is ways