toring will generate longitudinal data in six MPAs by the end tively high frequencies (i.e. every three years), we will test,
of 2015, enabling us to explore the short-term impacts of and if necessary control for, serial correlation effects (where
MPA establishment on habitat condition and the status of error terms for a given variable over various time intervals
key fisheries species. We will document MPA impacts, and are correlated) [53]. Initial treatment effects, computed 3-4

examine the ecological and social factors that explain years post-baseline, are likely to capture a subset of the full


suite of MPA ecological impacts, namely those with relatively (as is often the case) the areas outside MPAs are in steeper

rapid response times. Existing literature [9] suggests that these decline [48]. While it can be difficult to argue for spending
short-term treatment effects may detect impacts on aggregate money on monitoring sites outside the areas where the inter-
measures, although they may be insufficient to capture impacts ventions take place [39], in fact doing so can inform the
that are slower to emerge. For example, peak recovery of efficacy of the (vastly larger) funding for those interventions.
fish groups may to vary from 7 years to 37 years [78]. We antici- In the BHS, streamlining monitoring focused around impact
pate that ecological monitoring in the BHS will continue evaluation gave a much greater power to detect change, for
beyond these initial short-term analyses, allowing scholars to the same total monitoring budget.

document MPA impacts and understand the synergies and Integrating impact evaluation techniques into the monitoring
trade-offs across domains (e.g. benthic habitats versus fisheries of the BHS MPA network posed both technical and logistical
impacts; fisheries versus non-fisheries species; piscivores challenges. While the BHS experience highlights appropriate
versus herbivores), and spatial (e.g. between MPAs, between methodologies for handling some of these challenges, it also
MPA management zones) or temporal scales (e.g. short provides insights into improving the design of future MPA
versus long terms). impact evaluation studies. In the BHS, an existing and ongoing
