ment even when adults move across reserve boundaries ductive output and export propagules to the fishing ground a
(table 2b and electronic supplementary material, table S2b). [22,48,50,54,67]. s
Moreover, even though we did not simulate the effect of pro- Therefore, the key mechanism for the increase in fishery a
tecting nursery areas in this work, other studies [33,36,65] yield above MSY under conventional management is given = 2-
have shown that highly mobile species can still benefit from by a combination of the disproportionate gain in fecundity s
MRs if these include nursery areas, with maximum benefits of large spawners with intermediate levels of density- =
if MRs include both a spawning and nursery area. dependent recruitment. In fact, thanks to the saturating =
Our analysis showed that, in very specific circumstances shape of density-dependent settlement function (eqn $4 in
(limited larval dispersal and protection of large fractions of the electronic supplementary material), recruitment within ©
the fishing ground in just one or two reserves), MRs can lead reserves remains high in spite of larval dispersal from MRs =>
not only to a drop in fishery yields, but also in the whole fish to adjacent areas, as high local production of larvae sup- = =
stock compared with a conventional TAC-regulated fishery at ported by old, large, high fecund spawners within reserves S
MSY, a fact that is generally not recognized by a majority of can sustain population density at levels close to the undis- i
theoretical papers on the effects of MRs on fishery perform- turbed (non-fished) carrying capacity. At the same time, 2
ance—with the notable exception of Hilborn et al. [14]. This larval export from MRs to fishing grounds provides a sub- S
paradoxical outcome—MRs are expected to protect target stantial contribution to local recruitment in areas subject to w
stocks, not to further drive down their decline—occurs harvesting where the population is severely depleted and = ©&
because large spawners located in the middle of wide MRs its reproductive capacity impaired. This might explain why, ©
are unable to supplement recruitment to the fishing ground in contrast to our more general predictions, Le Quesne & &
owing to limited larval dispersal. At the same time, the fishery, Codling [16] found—by using an age-structured, spatially = &
squeezed into a smaller fishing ground, depletes the stock in an explicit model of the North Sea cod, Gadus morhua—that no
attempt to reach the quota, and the low adult densities left in network of MRs can provide yields larger than MSY under
the fishable ground are unable to provide an effective contri- conventional management. In their model, fecundity grew
bution to recruitment. Ultimately, stock depletion in the approximately linearly with body mass but somatic growth
fishable ground is so extreme that it cannot be compensated was limited by the use of a Von Bertalanffy (VB) growth