of conservation [6,16,17], we opted against their use as they are mental degradation and the lack of progress made in reducing
poorly correlated with the prices for which lands are acquired global poverty in major parts of the world during the first
for conservation [18]. Further, even accurate estimates of monetary decade of the twenty-first century. Consumers are prepared to
opportunity costs are not always indicative of the socio-economic change some of their consumption patterns. People realize that
costs to local populations, for instance in areas where the main their search for the lowest cost and highest returns gives them
activity is subsistence farming [19]. private gain as consumers and investors but collective loss as
All PA polygons were dissolved into a single planning unit global citizens. Citizens start to develop innovative customer
that was set as automatically selected in Marxan [14], so that and business models to resolve these tensions as they become
the software would identify additional planning units—entire better informed. In the food sector, a shift towards vegetarian
or partial 30 x 30 km grid cells cut around existing PAs—that diets occurs. This shift is driven not only by health concerns
met the specified targets by complementing the existing PA about meat consumption (cardiovascular disease, pandemics)
network. and other effects of ‘cheap food’ (diabetes, obesity), but also by
For each PA expansion plan (ecoregions and threatened the fact that people become more aware of the indirect systemic
species), we ran Marxan 100 times, each with 100 million consequences of the large-scale industrial food system. Another
iterations. Given the size of the grid cells (900 km’), we did not change is a reduced growth in personal travel and freight trans-
attempt to impose spatial compactness to the proposed PA port stimulated by more convenient infrastructures for other
network, as individual proposed PAs would be sufficiently modes of transport (bicycle and public transport).

large to host a viable population of most species, and the aggre-
gation would result naturally from the spatial autocorrelation
in species distributions and human population density (0) Integrated model to assess the global environment
(figure 1). We identified which of the 100 PA portfolios had (IMAGE)

the lowest cost and used that portfolio as the 2020 PA coverage
under each plan. From these, we removed all non-natural land-