conservation and agriculture were somewhat reduced in the than expanding PAs for terrestrial mammal species in the
Consumption Change scenario. We also found a shortfall in upper half of the range-size distribution.
the amount of forest subject to clear-cut and selective logging We found that protecting threatened species will imply
in 2020 for the BAU and Consumption Change scenarios in setting aside land for conservation in densely populated
two regions: Indonesia + Papua New Guinea (PNG) and areas, even when explicitly attempting to avoid them
Central Asia. For both regions, the total shortfall in area during the conservation prioritization process. This means
subject to periodic harvest was slightly lower in BAU with that countries and conservation agencies willing to adopt
respect to Consumption Change because part of the timber proposals for targeted protection of threatened species, in
is obtained from deforestation followed by plantation of areas such as those identified by Venter et al. [6] and Butchart
intensive crops which, for these regions, is higher in the et al. [3], will face higher challenges than at present in
BAU scenario than in Consumption Change scenario. In ensuring legal enforcement of protected status, unless socio-
addition, in the Consumption Change scenario, the amount economic changes are put in place to ‘make space for conser-
of cropland area projected by 2020 is slightly higher in vation’. In fact, assuming that these PAs will be dedicated to
Africa and parts of Asia, in order to meet the goal of achiev- species and ecosystem conservation (IUCN protected area
ing global food security (electronic supplementary material, categories I-IV) implies that habitat conversion will be pro-
table S4 and [30]). hibited. We found that this could create a future shortfall in
When targeting PA expansion to protect threatened crops, livestock and timber in different parts of the world
species, under the BAU scenario there were shortfalls in agri- under both socio-economic scenarios tested here, and particu-
cultural land in Northern Africa, Middle East and Central larly under Business-as-usual socio-economic _ trends.
America except Mexico (electronic supplementary material, Decision-makers may decide not to incur these opportunity
table S6). Under the Consumption Change scenario a short- costs of conservation by adopting ecoregional or other more
fall remains only for Northern Africa, and is reduced there. flexible targets, with substantial negative repercussions for
There are also comparable shortfalls in area subject to forest species, as we show here. Importantly, we found that there

harvest in Indonesia + PNG and Central Asia. was no correlation between ecological and socio-economic