genomic convergences is that although RNA viruses often
respond quickly to strong selective pressures, their long-term RTM2 RIM3/
evolutionary plasticity might be less impressive. RIM3
In recent years, we have been interested in exploring the St-0 Sweden RTM1/RTM1 RTM2/ sensitive
molecular basis of virus adaptation to hosts that differ in RIM2 rtm3/
their susceptibility to infection. Host populations with low gen-
etic diversity in resistance-related loci show higher infection rtm3
prevalence than populations with great diversity [20]. Since
viruses evolve much faster than their multicellular hosts, the in inoculated leaves but do not allow for systemic movement.
chances of generating escape mutants while replicating in a Susceptibility depends on the Restricted TEV Movement
permissive host genotype are high, hence challenging the via- (RTM) multigenic system composed of the RTM1, RTM2 and
bility of host populations formed by individuals resistant only RTM3 loci [31-37]. The presence of dominant alleles at all
to the wild-type virus [21]. As a matter of fact, this process leads three loci is necessary for resistance; homozygous recessive
to local adaptation of parasites, where they have higher fitness mutations at any of the three loci result in systemic infection
in their current local host but lower in any foreign alternative [34,35]. Agudelo-Romero et al. [27] performed an evolution
host [22,23]. Local adaptation to a particular host genotype experiment in which TEV was adapted to the susceptible eco-
reduces the odds of successful transmission to a different type Ler-0 by serial passages. The ancestral TEV systemically
one, thus minimizing the chances of epidemic spread. Despite infected Ler-0 plants, although the infection was asymptomatic.
this effect, too much diversity in susceptibility will allow infec- After 17 passages, the resulting strain, TEV-At17, fixed six point
tion by a wider range of parasites [24]. In consequence, the mutations, improved its accumulation ca 44-fold and induced
long-term outcome of the interplay between host and virus severe symptoms. Comparative transcriptomics showed further
populations depends on the degree of genetic diversity of differences between evolved and ancestral viruses: TEV-At17
both contenders. The interaction between host genotypes and downregulated developmental and metabolic processes,
parasite genotypes has been modelled in the context of innate immunity and responses to abiotic stresses and to infec-
two different approaches. On the one hand, there is the gene- tion. Lali¢ et al. [29] showed that TEV-Af17 systemically infected