quite different coevolutionary journeys. Although biomedical between parasites and the adaptive immune system. The first 2
research on infection tends to focus on the elaborate inter- case study investigates the spatial dynamics of cytotoxic T 5
actions between immune defences and parasites’ counter- lymphocyte (CTL) response to viral infection: using a modelling =
measures, these are only part of the parasite’s life history. framework borrowed from predator—prey ecology, Kadolsky & =
Here too, ecology is key to appreciate the relative importance Yates [51] predicts the effects of spatial distribution of infection ‘S
of different selective pressures. Parasites face a diverse range and chemotaxis in CTL on the dynamics of virus clearance. Also. ‘©
of threats and challenges, from physical barriers (which can relevant to T-cell-mediated immunity, the second example [52] -s
be seen as a front-line extension of the immune system) and addresses the issue of estimating immune repertoire diversity in =
strong, specific immunological attack to lack of vital resources vivo from blood samples. An unexpected solution is provided by =
and competition with resident microorganisms. In an unex- ecological methods for species richness estimation. Next, we -
pected twist, to deal with the competition, the enteric consider the parasite’s point of view, with two contrasted 2
pathogen Salmonella enterica resorts to triggering an inflamma- examples of strategies that have evolved to establish persistent S
tory response that clears part of the microbiota [38]. In fact, infections in the face of adaptive immunity. At one end of the w
there is growing evidence that various pathogens have evolved spectrum, HIV thrives ina guerrilla warfare approach, attacking 2
to exploit, rather than evade, components of the host’s immune T-cells and constantly evolving [53]. At the other end, trypano- S&S
response [39]. From the host's perspective too, there are good somes manage to keep under the host’s immune radar by 8
reasons not to engage in escalating arms races. First, potent switching antigens and self-limitation of infection load [54]. =<
immune defences can be more harmful than infection [40] or, Having set the stage of infection dynamics, this theme issue

as we have just seen, beneficial to pathogens. In addition, next investigates drivers of parasite genetic diversity and evol-
because natural selection is essentially concerned with the ution within hosts. Of particular interest is the influence of host
reproductive success of competing genotypes (and not with factors on competition between parasite strains: following a

the ability to kill pathogens), it may be advantageous for a review highlighting the value of ecological concepts [55], a
