a Leica MS5 stereomicroscope (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, pronounced at higher sequence identity thresholds. On the
Germany) at 40x magnification to count the total number of other hand, we observed only a slight increase of weighted Near-
each helminth per gut section per individual. est Sequenced Taxon Index (NSTI, ie. average branch length

separating OTUs from a reference bacterial genome) with
decreasing similarity threshold. NSTI for 97%-91% similarity

(b) 16S rRNA gene sequencing threshold ranged between 0.126 and 0.164, which is comparable
Total genomic DNA was extracted from each sample (luminal with data for other non-model mammalian species [47]. There-
bacteria of stomach, small intestine, caecum and distal colon, fore, to minimize the risk of bias owing to poor representation
and mucosa particles of small intestine) using the QlAamp of our data in the reference database, we based the metagenomic
DNA Stool Mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). Methods fol- predictions on a 91% similarity threshold as recommended by
lowed the manufacturer’s instructions for pathogen detection, Langille ef al. [47]. Nevertheless, the fact that the between-
with the addition of a 2 min homogenization step at 30 Hz to sample variation in predicted metagenome content was highly
enhance bacterial cell lysis, using a Mixer Mill MM200 (Retsch correlated across different similarity thresholds (range of Pro-
GmbH, Haan, Germany) with 5mm stainless steel beads crustes cor. coeff. = 0.99-0.93) is worth noting. The predicted
(Qiagen). Purity and quality of the recovered DNA were deter- metagenomes were classified according to Clusters of Orthologous
mined using a Nanodrop 8000 (Thermo Scientific/Nanodrop, Groups of proteins (COGs, [49]).

Wilmington, DE, USA) and a QIAxcel capillary electrophoresis
system (Qiagen). The V1-V3 regions of the 16S rRNA gene

were amplified with the primers 27F and 533R and pyro- (d) Statistical analyses

sequenced using the GS FLX + system (454 Life Sciences, We describe here an overview of our general statistical approach