have co-evolved with the originating genome, and thus recently Screening of 16S rRNA gene amplicons generated from DNA
acquired genes and phage or viral regions might not be part isolated from sediments that were sampled during the spring
of the final assembly [39]. In SCG approaches, the necessity of 2010 (sample 10Y13) showed high abundance of archaeal
to pre-amplify genomic DNA causes artefacts such as uneven lineages from the TACK superphylum, such as the Miscella-
coverage and chimera formation during MDA reaction, often neous Crenarchaeotal Group (MCG; 9%), Nitrosocaldus (18%),
resulting in highly incomplete or fragmented genomes [39]. OPPD0038 (9%), THSCG (9%), Thermoprotei (19%) and pSL12
One possibility to improve the quality and completeness of (22%; figure 3). Therefore, this sample was selected to be

genomic assemblies is to combine SCG and metagenomics. For analysed using single-cell genomics.

instance, SAGs can be used to recruit fragments from metagen- To extract cells from sediment sample 10Y13, a Nycodenz
omes [49,50] or they can serve as training sets for supervised gradient centrifugation method was applied [49]. Cell fractions
binning efforts of metagenomic data derived from the same were then sorted by FACS into 384-well plates, followed
sample (e.g. see ยง5). Reassembly of reads from a particular by alkaline lysis and MDA to generate SAGs (see electronic
genome bin and corresponding SAG has the potential to supplementary material for details). A qPCR screen using
improve the quality and completeness of the genome assembly Archaea-specific 16S rRNA gene primers identified 20 poten-
and to obtain near-complete genomes (table 1). tial archaeal SAGs. Follow-up sequencing using an Illumina
In ยง4, we provide examples to clarify the principle of HiSeq instrument followed by genome assembly revealed
novel techniques applied in our research group to explore that two of the SAGs, A3 and F10, belonged to uncultured
the genomic potential of novel TACK lineages using cultiva- archaeal lineages (see electronic supplementary material for
tion-independent approaches. So far, we have focused on details). Inspection of the genomic assemblies of these two
generating single-cell and metagenomic sequence data from SAGs, which had total assembly sizes of 0.8 and 0.7 Mbp for
various sediment samples from hot springs and hydro- A3 and F10, respectively, indicated that these were lacking
thermal vent systems. These environments have previously 16S rRNA genes, which hindered classical taxonomic classifi-
been suggested to harbour a large diversity of so far unculti- cation. However, the extraction of single-copy marker genes