
become clear in the post-genomic era that gene number (0) Repetitive DNA
itself is, at best, very weakly linked to complexity. Compari- It has been suggested many times that repetitive DNA, and in
sons of gene numbers among early sequencing targets (e.g. particular TEs, is the dominant contributor to eukaryotic
humans, flies and nematodes) indicated that intuitively com- genome size (e.g. [15,37—40]). The results of this study confirm
plex organisms may possess a surprisingly low number of that repeat content in general and TE content in particular are
genes and, conversely, that seemingly simple organisms strongly positively correlated with genome size (figure 3).
may have higher than expected numbers of genes. Indeed, Larger genomes contain proportionately more TEs than smal-
it was even suggested that there is a ‘G-value paradox’ or ler ones, and at least 75% of identifiable repeats in the
‘N-value paradox’ in reference to this disconnect between genomes examined are TEs. The enormous predominance of
gene number and complexity [26,27]. TEs has major implications for the understanding of eukary-
To complicate matters further, the present analysis indi- otic genome structure, function and evolution. TEs can be
cates that, in fact, genome size and gene number are important mutagens for good or ill, on the one hand poten-
positively correlated across a broad array of eukaryotes tially contributing genetic diversity upon which natural
(figure 2a). Some previous analyses had suggested that this selection can act (e.g. [41,42]) and on the other hand causing
may be the case (e.g. [28,29]), but these were based on a deleterious mutations associated with a number of diseases
much smaller and more taxonomically limited sample of gen- (e.g. [43,44]). Moreover, the list of examples in which individ-
omes and did not take phylogeny into account. In addition, ual TEs have been co-opted into important regulatory, coding
an early comparative analysis of animals and_ plants or structural roles in the genome continues to grow (e.g. [45]).
showed that ribosomal gene (rDNA) copy number correlates Mechanisms that are thought to have evolved initially as
positively with genome size [30]. On the other hand, the defences against TE activity have likewise been co-opted for
percentage of the genome composed of protein-coding much broader regulatory roles, thereby contributing in a
sequences decreases as genomes grow larger (figure 2b), major way to the subsequent diversification of multicellular
and overall it is clear that protein-coding regions contribute eukaryote lineages [46].
only a very small amount to overall genome size in all but Of course, TEs represent a diverse set of sequences with a