of techniques, including elaborate finish of external and by pecking and abrasion. These types of wear, which were
internal surfaces. Importantly, the smallest object (02-157) also identified on several other objects in the assemblage, pos-
was perhaps coated with an unidentified material (electronic sibly reflect the last stages of tool manufacture. Abundant
supplementary material, figure $6). impact marks and irregular microrelief of the internal surface
A critical issue is whether the shallow bowls served for characterize fragment no. 2. The impact marks tend to cluster
plant, and more particularly, flour processing. Shallow bowls towards the centre of the fragment, although they also occur
can generally be described as an intermediate form between at some distance from it. These marks were produced after
grinding slabs and mortars; potentially they can be used as manufacture. Levelled plateaus were observed at low magnifi-
lower-passive implements to reduce plant materials into cations, which indicate that percussion was associated with
small particles. Because experiments on vessel manufacture abrasive motions. The relative chronology of the use-wear
and use are far more limited than for grinding and pounding suggests that fragment no. 2 was used after breakage in pound-
implements [67], the analysis of use-wear on shallow bowls ing activity. Evidence of contact with a hard and abrasive
mostly focused on comparisons between the internal and matter is common on this object. However, the fact that


after breakage, as mentioned above. Further analyses are
required to fully document recycling in this sample.

Intentional breakage of ground stone implements has
recently been the focus of much attention [83-89]. Ethno-
graphic studies indicate that this behaviour may be intended
to release the spirit from an object or to express compassion for,
and/or prevent revenge from, a deceased person (e.g. [86,90]).
As pointed out by Wright [83], intentional breakage occurring
during ‘potlatch-type’ activities may be relevant to certain con-