and differentiation potential (in the case of somatic stem or derived neural cells have been successfully employed to
progenitor cells). Therefore, in addition to the much higher analyse genetic implications of familial dysautonomia [84],
proliferation capacity, iPS cells can truly self-replicate in cul- PD [82], schizophrenia [85,86], autism [87,88] and Alzhei-
ture. The other side of this coin, though, is that iPS cells mer’s disease [89,90]. An outstanding question is whether
are clearly not immune to accumulating mutations of the young neurons produced from iPS cells can reflect aspects
various kinds when propagated in culture, including point of aged neurons, such as the ones in decades-old brains of
mutations, copy number variations of small and large geno- Alzheimer’s disease patients, and whether perhaps fibro-
mic fragments, and even gross karyotypic abnormalities blast-iN cells reflect the donor age better than iPS cell-
[73-79]. In fact, a large survey of hundreds of cell lines derived neurons [91].
found much higher karyotypic stability of directly transdif- With respect to potential applications in regenerative
ferentiated cells compared to stem cell-derived cells [79]. medicine, direct cell fate conversion of somatic donor cells
The thus far still unappreciated genomic instability of iPS would have the advantage of minimizing the inadvertent
cells in fact puts restrictions on the praised possibility of inter- inclusion of undifferentiated cells with high proliferative
rogating the precise genetic background of individual human capacity in the cell population to be transplanted. One
subjects and patients. of the major concerns regarding pluripotent stem cell-
Presumably related to the genomic instability is the derivatives for transplantation therapies is the potential
widely observed line-to-line variability of iPS cells with tumour formation from residual pluripotent stem cells.
respect to growth rate, growth behaviour, transfection/ Even less than 1% of residual undifferentiated pluripotent
infection rates and differentiation propensities in general stem cells in the grafted cell population can lead to teratoma
and biases towards specific lineages [80]. Importantly, formation calling for efficient purification methods or intri-
this leads to erroneous conclusions when subjecting those cate safety measures to be engineered in pluripotent donor
cells to functional assays. This line-dependent variability cells [92-94]. Direct conversion of somatic donor cells to
further causes pronounced experimental noise which compli- any type of mature neuronal cell, on the other hand, avoids
cates and might even preclude meaningful results from the risk of tumour formation because neurons are postmitotic
high-throughput screens. and no oncogenes are being used for reprogramming. Using