each participant, receipt of this pay-off is contingent on the behaviour of

THE ROYAL SOCIETY

PUBLISHING © 2015 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


others. If the costs of being the only hunter are sufficiently dynamics at both East and West African chimpanzee sites,

high and participation by others is uncertain, then individ- including Tai. In this conceptual model, each hunter seeks to
uals should be reluctant to initiate a hunt. Thus, hunting in catch a monkey, rather than acting to increase the probability
groups appears vulnerable to a collective action problem that the group as a whole succeeds [44]. As more individuals
stemming from the fact that the costs are incurred by a hunt, prey defences become increasingly diluted, thus redu-
subset of the group while the benefits are distributed more cing hunting costs for every hunter. Also, as female and
widely [1,25]. This situation presents an opportunity for indi- juvenile monkeys flee, there are more opportunities to make
viduals to take advantage of others, either by not a kill in the ensuing chaos. This shift in the perceived costs
participating at all (‘strong free-riding’) or contributing less and benefits of hunting should prompt initially reluctant chim-
than their share (‘weak free-riding’) [26-28]. In the case of panzees to hunt. As chimpanzees react to the actions of prey
cooperative hunting, the costs come from expending energy (and predator), what looks like a complex, coordinated div-
and encountering danger (from being attacked, or from fall- ision of labour may emerge [48]. Until it can be shown at Tai
ing) while chasing and confronting prey. Why initiate a that a ‘blocker’ is not simply placing himself in a position =
hunt when others could do so instead? where he is likely to capture a monkey that is fleeing from =
We examine this question in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), another hunter, we believe that the by-product mutualism fra- -
which regularly engage in group hunts of red colobus monkeys mework cannot be rejected. Furthermore, the report that 2
(Procolobus spp.) wherever the two species are found together hunters at Tai frequently switch roles during hunts [42] is con- S