are located on the VgrG/PAAR spike and how large a cargo could be delivered into the target cell at once. The second
can be loaded at once. Clearly, a sharp tip evolved to facilitate advantage is that a large amount of energy is potentially
membrane puncturing in both T6SS and phages [67,114]. released during the contraction and this could be necessary
Therefore, it seems unlikely that effectors are directly on the for puncturing the target cell membranes. Delivery of folded
tip of VgrG/PAAR and are more likely on the side of the hydrophilic proteins across membranes requires breakage of
VerG as is lysozyme on gp5 of the T4 phage spike [115]. large amount of hydrophobic interactions between membrane
Mechanical puncturing of a membrane to deliver large lipids. This problem can be solved by an evolution of a trans-
folded hydrophilic effectors would be necessary and thus membrane domain that inserts amphipathic segments into
there are probably certain physical limits to how large effec- the membrane to create a hydrophilic conduit for the translo-
tors can be. On the other hand, Rhs are known to form a large cated protein. However, such a mechanism has to adapt to
beta-stranded cage that encapsulates toxic molecules in an various membrane compositions and has potential limitations
unfolded state and can open to release then upon a signal on the fold of the translocated protein. In the case of T6SS, the
[80,116], and thus the fact that Rhs can be substrate of T6SS physical rupture of the target cell membrane might be enough
shows that the size limits might be relatively high. to push large substrates across without a need for a protein
Interestingly, antibacterial effectors with both periplasmic dedicated to engage the membrane and potentially also
and cytosolic targets are secreted by T6SS [89,93,96]. Even without a limit to the structure of the translocated protein.
though Hep tubes are presumably long enough to reach the This might be the reason why membrane translocation
target cell cytosol [26], it is not clear how far into the bacterial by physical puncturing 1s conserved in many related systems:
cell can the Hep/VgrG/PAAR with the associated effectors R-type pyocins and phages targeting bacteria [24], but also
be delivered. There are several options: (i) all effectors are similar nanomachines targeting eukaryotes, such as antifeed-
delivered into the periplasm of the target cell and use separ- ing prophage [123], metamorphosis-associated contractile
ate mechanisms to cross the inner membrane, (ii) effectors are structures [124] or Photorhabdus virulence cassette [125]. There
delivered into the cytosol and then some are transported to sno doubt that further studies of dynamics, structure and func-
the periplasm, or (iii) physical properties of an effector dictate tion of these fascinating nanomachines will help us to fully
in which compartment it dissociates from the tube or spike. unravel their mode of action and unlock their potential use