chemical evidence demonstrating that all proteins physically Without the Lpt complex, LPS accumulates at the outer leaflet
interact to form a complex support the model described in of the IM; therefore, the first step in LPS transport is the extrac-
figure 1 [40]. tion of the glycolipid from this leaflet (figure 1) [48,56]. LptFGC

are positioned to be the likely extractors as LPS resides in the
outer leaflet of the IM; the fact that LptB was predicted to be

6. Discove' ry of the Lpt extraction machin ery an ATPase suggested early on that ATP hydrolysis is probably
the energy source to power extraction [48,56]. This model raises
LptB,FGC the fundamental question of how the energy derived from
Three decades after realizing that LPS must be transported ATP hydrolysis is transmitted across the IM so that extraction
from the IM to the OM, the players involved began to be iden- of LPS can occur. Most known ABC transporters translocate
tified. The Polissi group identified the first IM components of substrates across membranes [62]. The fact that this ABC trans-
the Lpt system using a genetic screen designed to find essential porter extracts a substrate from the membrane suggests a novel
genes. Serina et al. [57] identified one essential operon that con- mechanism of action.
tains yrbG (still uncharacterized), kdsDC (Kdo biosynthesis To begin to answer this question, the organization of the IM
genes, at the time named yrbHI) and IptCAB (at the time complex was first studied by Narita & Tokuda [46], who over-
named yrbK and yhbNG, respectively). These studies showed expressed and copurified the complex using a polyhistidine tag
that at least IptAB were essential. on LptB. Size-exclusion chromatography demonstrated that
In follow-up studies, Polissi and collaborators established complexes of LptBFGC have a 2:1:1:1 subunit ratio [46].
the role of LptAB in LPS transport. Because altered expression This was also in agreement with the mechanism of ABC trans-
of IptAB can lead to increased sensitivity to hydrophobic toxic porters that usually contain a dimer of NBDs [62]. A further
compounds or death, they proposed that these factors were advance in our understanding of the LptB,FG complex was
essential proteins involved in OM biogenesis [58]. Just as dec- recently made by the Ruiz and Kahne laboratories. Using a
ades before the use of ultracentrifugation to separate the IM combination of structural, biochemical and genetic approach-