monopolarity versus bipolarity of invertebrate and vertebrate neurons and nervous system evolved just once, or more than

nerve cells [16,17]. Today, studies on ctenophores go much once. This is discussed in detail by Moroz & Kohn [1], the


focus here being on Ctenophora, semi-transparent marine pre- Divergent evolution of certain clades within Metazoa is

dators known as comb jellies. Their nervous systems are epitomized by the arthropod radiation, a diversification that
proposed by the authors to be uniquely distinct from the ner- has provided at any time since (and including) the ‘Cambrian
vous systems of Cnidaria and all bilateria. The authors’ Explosion’ the most species-rich phylum. In her review,
conclusions are based on the unique genomic properties of Angelika Stollewerk demonstrates that clear variation in neu-
the ctenophore nervous system, which suggest that it evolved rogenesis may have supported such divergence despite the
independently, as did its preponderance of peptide signalling fact that a subset of conserved genes is known to underlie
coupled with the absence of transmitter substance that charac- neurogenesis in all Metazoa [26]. Here, the author compares
terize other metazoan nervous systems. The authors explain arthropod neurogenesis to demonstrate how variations of
their view of neurons as a functional category of cells. By pro- function and regulation of neural genes could have facilitated
posing that neurons have evolved several times divergent evolution of developmental neurogenesis in this
independently they refute the notion that neurons are homolo- phylum, using examples from its major representatives.
gous across phyla and suggest that their synaptic structures Divergence of body plans underlies the next paper in
have likewise evolved several times. this series by Nick Holland [27], who provides a comprehen-
Martinez and colleagues [23] debate similar questions sive overview of the various scenarios, both historical and
about origins, here with reference to the nervous system of current, that have attempted to explain the origin of the
Xenacoelomorpha, an equivocal clade comprising three acoe- vertebrate nervous system from an invertebrate predecessor.
lomate groups, the nervous systems of which range from Ideas about how the transformation from invertebrate-
simple to well-ordered networks, the latter associate with to-vertebrate might have occurred are discussed with special