critically evaluated: (i) the progress towards an unbiased Ecdysozoa and Lophotrochozoa was also limited.
reconstruction of the animal phylogeny, and (ii) the criteria The subsequent phylogenomic analysis by some of
for establishing homology versus analogy/homoplasy in the authors [46] expanded the list of species. Specifically,
the identification of complex characteristics or traits, such as Hejnol et al. [46] included ESTs from one additional sponge,
neurons, synapses, neural circuits and brain regions. In gen- Amphimedon queenslandica, and emerging genomic data from
eral, the lack of uniquely shared molecular components or T. adhaerens (Placozoa). Both the 844- and 330-gene matrixes
mechanisms between morphologically or functionally similar were analysed and supported the placement of ctenophores
traits (e.g. eyes, muscles, neurons or synapses) is indicative of as the sister group to all remaining animals. Surprisingly,
convergent evolution or homoplasy. Homoplasy implies that sponges were recovered as a polyphyletic, and Trichoplax was
a given trait was not present in the common ancestor. For placed within the clade of Porifera, a position that contradicts
example, the urmetazoan lacked striated muscles and eyes, that of many other studies [30,47]. Support for Lophotrochozoa
and these characteristics evolved independently in multiple or Spiralia was also low, and the relationships within this
animal groups [37,38]. In fact, it is now widely accepted group were mostly unresolved. Unsurprisingly, the authors
that eyes evolved more than 30-40 times [38], and the super- remained cautious and stressed that these results ‘should be
ficial similarity of the complex camera eyes in cephalopods treated provisionally’ until new EST and genome projects
and vertebrates represents the classical case of convergent from sponges and ctenophores became available and were
evolution [39]. ‘rigorously evaluated’.

To support or reject the hypothesis of a single origin of a The follow-up phylogenetic studies (2009-2013) with
nervous system, we must first find the uniquely shared mol- the sequenced sponge [30] and placozoan [29] genomes
ecular traits for all neurons and synapses. Do pan-neuronal and the comparative data from next-generation sequencing
and pan-synaptic genes/molecular markers exist? The most (RNA-seq/transcriptomes) added even more controver-
recent analysis has suggested that this is not the case [40], sies [47,48]. The conflicting hypotheses included the
implying that neuronal phenotypes are results of convergent re-establishment of sponges as the sister to all animals and
evolution. For example, neuronal phenotypes with synapses a ‘recovery’ of ctenophores as the sister group to Cnidaria