Interestingly, Elav1::mOrange-positive sensory cells, which con- oral Wnt signalling centre of the blastopore is devoid of
stitute a subset of the SoxB(2)::mOrange cells, predominantly early neurogenesis, it is not clear whether Wnt/f-catenin sig-
project in an aboral direction at early- and mid-planula stage. nalling has a direct role in early neurogenesis or a general
Later-born Elav1 neurons, however, preferentially project in positive function in establishing neurogenic potential. Sur-
transverse orientation. This is paralleled by the development prisingly, while in flies and vertebrates the gradient of BMP
of the mesenteries, and soon neuronal tracts run along the signalling along the DV axis has an anti-neuralizing effect
parietal muscle in the mesentery, with individual neurons situ- and localizes the CNS [38], in Nematostella, BMP signalling
ated in between and connecting them [27]. This change in the appears to have no effect on neuronal differentiation at an
neurite projection pattern may indicate chemical cues that early phase, but a proneural function in the later phase of
turn on and off during development in order to correctly embryonic neurogenesis [28]. Future research also on other
orient the projections of neural subpopulations in the develop- bilaterian phyla will reveal whether Wnt signalling or BMP
ing nervous system; however, they have not yet been identified. signalling (or both) has an ancestral role in neurogenesis.
In fact, the expression patterns of candidate guidance mol- Interesting insights into the conservation of regional
ecules, such as Netrin or RGM, do not obviously relate to the patterning came from the analysis of the bilaterian head pat-
observed changes in neurite projections of Elav1-positive terning genes six3/6, FoxQ2a and irx, which are early anterior
neurons [24,39]. brain markers. Strikingly, six3/6, FoxQ2a and irx are actually

The development of the nervous system in Nematostella expressed at the aboral end of the Nematostella planula [54],
displays some striking differences to that in Hydra and suggesting a stunning conservation of regional patterning
other hydrozoans such as Clytia hemisphaerica and Hydractinia genes. Knockdown of Nematostella six3/6 reduced the number
echinata. In these cnidarians, neurons, as well as nematocytes of DmrtB-expressing aboral neurons, but did not affect the
(cnidocytes), differentiate from multipotent interstitial stem expression of the broader neural marker RFamide, suggesting
cells (i-cells). i-cells predominantly reside between the ecto- that the effect on the aboral neurons is rather a consequence
dermal epithelial cells of the body column. Interestingly, of the mis-specification of the aboral domain. These obser-
the distribution of i-cells is virtually complementary to the vations are similar to loss-of-function studies in sea urchin