2. Mind reading nations, however, were not so easily ruled out by those data.
The onset of research on theory of mind is easy to pinpoint: Most notably among them was the so-called evil eye
Premack & Woodruff’s [17] seminal paper and the commen- hypothesis, i.e. individuals avoid food pieces that have
taries that accompanied it. Premack & Woodruff reported a been seen by others. Or put in behavioural reading terms,
set of provocative findings about a chimpanzee seemingly the observable cue that chimpanzees might have used was
attributing intentions to a human solving physical problems. based on a geometric appreciation of the line of sight between
Several commentators challenged these findings both on the competitor and the food. Note that geometric gaze fol-
theoretical and empirical grounds thus launching a debate lowing has been described in primates and corvids [38-40].
that continues to this day fuelled by new empirical findings Applied to the competitive case, it meant that if the competi-
and additional alternative interpretations [18]. Whereas tor’s line of sight to the food’s current location was not
some argue that there is no evidence of theory of mind, blocked by any visual barrier, then the individual should
others think that there is evidence of some aspects of refrain from approaching/selecting that food. Leaving aside
theory of mind [19-21]. These disagreements, however, the fact that such a computation already involves a certain
should not obscure the fact that real progress has taken kind of perspective-taking [10], a kind of direct perceptual
place in this area over the years. Although not all questions perspective-taking at the very least, and that in some exper-
have been answered to everyone’s satisfaction, it is uncontro- iments it requires the subject to keep a memory of the event
versial that some of the interpretations that were tenable a tied to a particular individual (e.g. [37]), it is true that this
few years ago are no longer viable as explanations for some explanation alone could account for many of the existing
of the existing data. Let us review some of this evidence. findings. However, in the last few years several studies
Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, most non-human pri- have appeared that make this explanation untenable. We
mate studies on theory of mind abilities were based on turn to this evidence next.
equivalent studies with human children with methodologies Schmelz et al. [41] directly addressed the evil eye hypoth-
in cooperative contexts (e.g. [22—25]). The cooperative /com- esis by preventing the subject from seeing the competitor
municative paradigm with humans invariably required long seeing the food and thus completely eliminating any possible
training regimes and produced not much convincing evi- cues for the subjects during the study. Schmelz et al. [41,42]