. . barrier and made no contact with that part of the box from = 5
2. Social learning which the reward could be retrieved. That is, the action invol- 3
It appears intuitive that any search for an account of human (as ving the top hole had no causal relation to the outcome. = =
opposed to non-human) culture would include a model of Under this new circumstance, the chimpanzees ignored the
human (as opposed to non-human) social learning. Humans initial action which was now visibly, causally irrelevant. In con-
are profoundly adept at acquiring information from others, trast, the children replicated the model’s entire sequence of
and do so habitually when confronted with the need or desire actions, including the obviously irrelevant insertion of the
to acquire new skills or behaviours. Our social learning skills stick into the top hole (see also [41]). These data further support
are established early in life, as exemplified by demonstrations the account that overimitation is a species-specific enabling con-
that infants as young as six months can learn new actions, and dition for human culture. In this way, the triadic approach
by 12 months can learn to construct simple tools, just by observ- combining developmental, cross-cultural and comparative
ing others [25]. The capacity and tendency for social learning comparisons has provided part of the puzzle of human culture
only increases from this age, so much in fact that children that was unattainable in the absence of any of the three.
engage in what has come to be known as overimitation [26]. The natural next question is how this difference in
When children overimitate, they copy all elements an adult overimitation comes about. Does the apparent lack of overi-
used when engaging with a novel object, including actions that mitation in non-human animals suggest a fundamental,
are obviously causally unrelated to any potential outcome. In heritable discontinuity between human and non-human
the first study to chart its emergence, 12-, 18- and 24-month- social learning abilities? Attempting an answer to this ques-
old children watched an adult retrieve a toy from a closed tion brings us to Heyes’s [22] review of the debate between
box by disengaging a latch located on the front of it [27]. active intermodal matching and associative sequence learn-
Although the box could be easily opened by hand, the adult ing accounts of imitation. As Heyes notes, one of the key
complicated the demonstration by using a miscellaneous points of contention between these perspectives is whether
object. After observing the adult demonstrator, 12-month-old there is a species-specific genetically inherited ‘module’ for
infants ignored the demonstrated method and attempted to imitation or if there is continuity, with our ‘prodigious imita-
open the box by hand. In stark contrast, 24-month-olds over- tive capacity ... due primarily to the rich resources provided