2. Natural history of primitively eusocial wasps are common, with 15% (Spain) or 35% (Italy) of foundresses
Primitively eusocial wasps comprise the vespid subfamilies being unrelated in populations of P. dominula [13,15]
Polistinae (paper wasps) and Stenogastrinae (hover wasps), (figure 2). In the Spanish populations, more than 80% of
plus the little-studied lineage of apoid wasps that includes co-foundress groups contain at least one foundress that is unre-
the genus Microstigmus [4]. These wasps have life-histories lated or only distantly related to other group members [16].
analogous to cooperatively breeding vertebrates. Indeed, Because P. dominula is by far the best studied of the species in
Gadagkar [5] has previously advocated referring to both which unrelated co-foundresses are common, we will focus
groups as ‘eusocial’. on it in the remainder of this article.

Polistes paper wasps are the best-studied genus of primitively The significant proportion of unrelated subordinates in
eusocial wasps, including more than 200 species that occur P. dominula at first sight appeared paradoxical, because the
throughout most of the world [6]. In seasonal habitats, the nesting dominant foundress produces most of the offspring at any
cycle begins in spring when overwintered females (foundresses) one time [15]. In fact, assuming that subordinates can
start building their characteristic paper nests attached to plants, obtain only indirect fitness, the increase in group prod-
rocks, man-made structures, etc. (figure 1). Foundresses have uctivity per subordinate seemed so small that even full
already been inseminated, usually by a single male, soon after sisters of the dominant would do better to nest independ-
emerging from their natal nests the previous autumn. In some ently [17]! A more recent, large-scale field study of the
populations, almost all nests have only a single foundress, Spanish population of P. dominula, however, provides an
whereas in other populations some or almost all nests have unexpected explanation for this paradox based on direct fit-
more than one foundress, with 10 or more not infrequent in ness for subordinates, a possibility that has tended to be
some populations of P. dominula [7]. On multiple foundress neglected in social insects. By genotyping offspring produced

nests, typically one ‘dominant’ foundress lays most or all of the on more than 200 nests throughout the colony cycle, the

