mutually exclusive and, in fact, often act simultaneously lyse how kin selection and responsive strategies interact
[12,13]. Moreover, the coexistence and collaboration of both when generating cooperation. To complement our simu-
related and unrelated individuals within breeding groups is lations for this particular model system, we also develop a
widespread in social animals [13,14]. general mathematical argument to illustrate the formal
In the theoretical literature, there is a lack of consensus logic behind our main results.
about the consequences of the simultaneous action of We first present an individual-based simulation model
relatedness and responsive strategies for the evolution of that is inspired by the cooperatively breeding cichlid
cooperation. Marshall & Rowe [15] suggested that related- Neolamprologus pulcher, where dominants and subordinates
ness prevents the evolution of reciprocal cooperation negotiate their levels of aggression and help [19]. This
because relatedness weakens selection for effective retalia- system is particularly well suited to understand the inter-
tion against defectors. By contrast, Van Veelen et al. [16] action of kin selection and responsive strategies [19-23].
found that relatedness increases the prevalence of reciprocal Neolamprologus pulcher live in social groups in which related
cooperation, and explained this by the fact that assortment and unrelated individuals interact repeatedly with one
of strategies prevents the ‘indirect invasion’ of defectors; another [21,24]. A group typically consists of a dominant
that is, when cooperative but unresponsive strategies pave breeding pair that largely controls reproduction, and several
the way for defectors. Mengel [17], finally, argued that relat- subordinates. Subordinates help in tasks related to nest
edness does not have a monotonic effect on the prevalence maintenance and offspring care [23] (figure la—c). Small
of cooperation when strategies are responsive. A common subordinates help in egg cleaning (figure 1a). Large subor-
feature of these models is that they use the game-theoretical dinates dig out sand (figure 1b), in order to maintain or
framework of the Iterated Prisoners Dilemma (IPD), a gen- enlarge the size of the nest, and fight away egg predators
eric, abstract model of cooperation, in which cooperative (figure 1c). The observed alloparental care is not easily
interactions are detached from their ecological and life-his- explained by kin selection. In fact, N. pulcher subordinates
tory context [18]. Therefore, it is not straightforward to provide less (rather than more) care when they help a
determine which of the contrasting theoretical models is related dominant [22] (figure le). A plausible alternative
applicable to a given biological example of cooperation. hypothesis is that helping results from a_ negotiation