defines the helpers level of help in response to the level of aggression received. Both reaction norms are heritable strategies that evolve in the course of the
generations. (c) Plotting both reaction norms in one graph (thereby swapping the axes of graph b) gives a graphical illustration of the negotiation process.
After a sequence of moves and counter-moves, the breeder and the helper settle at a negotiation equilibrium (h*,a*). The green line indicates the inherited
tolerance level 7 of the helper; the helper leaves if the negotiated aggression a* exceeds this threshold. (d) Different outcomes of the negotiation process. Depend-
ing on the helper's reaction norm, the same breeder can be more or less aggressive; helpers can stay or leave depending on their tolerance level and on how much
aggression they receive.

this ‘pay-to-stay’ interpretation [26,27], the breeder allows 2. The model
the helper to use vital resources in a safe territory in
exchange for the provided help [19,28]. The other side of (a) Overview
the bargain, which is more difficult to demonstrate, is that We consider a population with a large number of breeding
helping is enforced by aggression and threats of eviction territories each of which can harbour at most one breeder
on the side of the dominant [29]. In fact, aggressive enfor- and at most one potential helper. Only breeders produce off-
cement of help by breeders is rarely observed, and the spring. In the absence of helping, the presence of another
overall level of aggression is low [19] unless aggression is individual on the territory reduces the fecundity of the bree-
provoked by experimentally preventing subordinates from der; therefore, a breeder will have the tendency to evict other
helping [25] (figure 1g). individuals that are not willing to help. For non-breeders, it is
Cooperative breeding in N. pulcher is no exception among, beneficial to stay on a breeding territory, since otherwise they
other well-studied examples of cooperative behaviours in the have to become floaters, and the survival probability of
wild, in that the roles of kin selection and responsive floaters is considerably lower than the baseline survival
strategies in shaping the social system cannot easily be disen- probability on a territory. However, being allowed to stay
tangled. It is not clear if and how the interaction between on a territory may require a ‘payment’ to the breeder in
them has contributed to the evolution of cooperation. To terms of helping (‘pay-to-stay’ [19,26]), and helping has a
bridge this gap, we model the evolution of behavioural mech- negative effect on the helper’s survival.
anisms by which individuals respond to social partners in Whether a breeder accepts a helper in the territory