Various biologists have argued that, in contrast to by- variety of different social situations. To our mind, the same
product benefits and positive pseudo-reciprocity, direct line of argument can be applied to explain situation-specific =.
mutually reciprocal investment is rarely found in non- conditional helping. All we need to explain is the evolution ‘2
human species, in both between- and within-species of learning rules (like strength of reinforcement, weighing ©
interactions [26-30], which is at odds with the theoretical lit- of past interactions, exploration of behavioural repertoire) — -s
erature. There are a few convincing examples for mutually that allow individuals to adjust their behaviour during =
conditional investments, i.e. experimental studies that their lifetime. Dridi & Lehmann [43,44] give wonderful =
demonstrate contingent helping: rats in a laboratory food examples of how exploratory trial-and-error reinforcement -
pulling task [31], flycatcher mobbing behaviour [32], food learning rules evolve that allow individuals to solve an iterated 2
provisioning in vampire bats ([33] in combination with prisoner's dilemma. S
[34]), apparent support for grooming in baboons [35] or The argument made above puts the emphasis on the cogni- w
tolerance and support for grooming in vervet monkeys [36]. tive constraint hypothesis. As we see it, this hypothesis is =~
Despite these examples, there is still a discrepancy bet- difficult to reconcile with the fact that individual recognition ©
ween the modelling literature on mutually reciprocal is widespread at least in various vertebrate clades like mam- 3
investments and the empirical results. mals, birds and fishes [39,45], and has even been shown in Ss
The discrepancy between theoretical efforts and empirical social insects [46]. Lack of mobility allows ‘individual recog-
evidence is understandable but also surprising. It is understand- nition’ based on location, as is the case for ants interacting
able because theoreticians are not interested in modelling with their many partner species or for pollinators interacting
conflict-free helping as the stability of helping in such cases is with flowering plants. Moreover, memory capacities are appar-
self-evident and theoretically uninteresting, whereas the oppo- ently sufficient for learning through operant conditioning, with
site is the case for helping to resolve maximal conflicts. What the evolution of crucial learning rule parameters subject
is currently debated, however, is why there are few convincing to natural selection [43,44]. Indeed, it has repeatedly been
examples of helping that involve mutually conditional invest- argued that solving an iterated prisoner’s dilemma game
ments and what ‘rare evidence’ might actually mean. We might not be as rare as often assumed because scientists were
therefore quickly summarize and comment on some proposed looking for strategies proposed by theoreticians, like tit-for-