ral forest). Instead of, or in addition to, quasi-experimental India mis-targeted mothers who, although gaining knowl- = =
designs there are a range of alternative approaches through edge, were not able to put it into practice as it was their =
which causal inferences can be made that can be divided mothers-in-law and husbands who made decisions about ‘2
broadly into three types: theory-based, case studies and par- food and child-raising, an insight that was initially found ©
ticipatory. These methods tend to be stronger than through reading anthropological studies [37]. In that +»
quantitative counterfactual approaches in explanation and example, it was a design flaw in the project that led to poor ==
contextualization, but weaker on estimating the magnitude results, but a theory-based approach can also detect problems S
of impacts [19]. Decisions about which design to use must with implementation. Ferraro & Hanauer [18] demonstrate i
be made on the basis of resources and skills available, and how a quasi-experimental design can incorporate quantitat- 2
the types of evidence required. ive analysis of causal pathways to show how protected S

Theory-based methods consider the likely chains of areas in Costa Rica reduced poverty mainly through tourism. w
impact, presenting alternative hypotheses for change and The fact that the three measured causal mechanisms 2
examining them through both qualitative and quantitative accounted for only two-thirds of impacts in this study &
data. These can highlight where there is a break in the serves to highlight how theories of change must incorporate  S
causal chain to explain impacts of an intervention [46]. A in-depth and complex understanding of socio-ecological ©
case study approach focuses on particularly successful (or systems to fully capture processes of change.

unsuccessful) cases (e.g. villages or intervention types) to
examine the contribution of the intervention to outcomes.
Comparisons across the cases can elucidate the combinations
of causal factors (the types of intervention, methods of
implementation such as levels of capacity building, and con-
textual factors such as tenure regimes, wealth levels and local
leadership) explaining changes in well-being indicators [44].