
species omists is often more or less explicitly defined away.
E8. Offering parts ofa territory for support with reproduction— Cooperative game theory (a field of little relevance to biology
cooperation between males of different status groups. In the because it assumes cooperation instead of explaining it)

songbird lazuli bunting (Passerina amoena), territorial males simply assumes the existence of Pareto efficiency as part of its


methodological foundation [93]. In a similar way, conventional organ [96]. This creates the incentive for V. fisheri to actually | 4 |

economics typically considers models of trade and markets in produce light and stabilizes the trade. The evolution of this
which the goods and services are subject to complete contracts now highly advanced mutualism was probably facilitated by a
that are enforceable at no cost to the exchanging parties [94]. the fact that luciferase interacts with host defences when it s
This means that the explicit terms of the exchange cover all generates luminescence by indirectly disrupting the host's pro- a
aspects of the trade that are relevant to the trader, and, once duction of reactive oxygen species [84,97]. Hence, the bacteria’s = 2-
decided upon, these terms are not subject to cheating. Of answer to the host’s antibacterial defences almost inevitably S
course, by making such strong assumptions, the way is paved generates the light that benefits the host. =
for Pareto efficiency. In a Prisoner’s Dilemma-like situation, Returning now to the general question of how trades are =
for example, the traders would sign a contract in which both self-stabilized, the evolution of increased dependence of ‘=
commit themselves to choosing the cooperative strategy. trading partners on each other can strongly protect trade ©
Human contracts are unique in nature because no other from cheating [95]. This is nicely demonstrated by the exam- — -5
species has developed institutions as powerful as our laws ple (E3) of the mutualism between acacia trees and their ant = =
and their enforcement, through which almost any trade defenders. The extrafloral nectar offered to the ants contains 5)
could, in principle, be protected against breach of contract. glucose and fructose but virtually no sucrose [99,100]. This -
In the world of non-human organisms, however, there are makes the nectar unattractive to unspecialized ant species 2