Guided by the empirical knowledge on mycorrhizal symbiosis shown that in mycorrhizal symbiosis, an increase in the quan-
(example E2), Wyatt et al. [41] developed a biological market tities supplied leads to an increase in the quantities received
model of broad importance. They investigated how natural selec- [101-112], but is not known yet whether the symbionts
tion induces competition between partners over the price at follow the rule of linear proportional discrimination. Two
which they provide goods, and how this determines the ‘terms’ more insights gained from the model relate in interesting
of mutualistic trade as well as the patterns of trade-specialization. ways to the facts [41]. First, the trade in mycorrhizal symbiosis
Let us take a closer look at their model, which illustrates the can only be maintained under selection when individuals are
validity of the biological market analogy particularly well. exposed to a sufficiently large number of competitors within

There are two types of traders in the model: plants and their own trader class. As the authors emphasize, there is
fungi. Both are in principle able to acquire both phosphorus empirical support for this result because individuals in mycor-
and carbon directly but it is not assumed that this double capa- rhizal communities typically trade in large networks of
bility is maintained by natural selection. In fact, mycorrhizal partners [113,114]. Second, according to the model’s analysis,
fungi in current symbioses do not directly acquire carbon but mycorrhizal fungi would probably have lost the ability
the model allows the question ‘what if these fungi had been to directly acquire carbon in response to market forces (reminis-

able to acquire carbon in the evolutionary past?’ cent of the loss of self-defence in the bullhorn acacia mentioned


above). Natural selection would have caused this loss through of neoclassical economics [116]. This model assumes that | 6 |

between-fungi competition for the benefits obtainable from enforceable contracts and can be used, for example, to
plant partners. The model thus offers a potential explanation derive the ‘law of supply and demand’. The law states that a
for structural aspects of the mycorrhizal community known in a market economy, the forces of supply and demand s
from empirical studies. push the price to a level at which the quantity supplied and a