hampered the applicability and reproducibility of basic neuro- a computerized battery of cognitive tasks with diffusion MRI
science research over the past several decades. Moreover, the to map the connectome of boys and girls and young men
withdrawal of 8 out of 10 drugs from the USA market between and women. They establish subnetworks based on functional
1997 and 2000 was, in part, owing to more severe adverse and behavioural domains and find that they differ between
effects in women (reviewed in [5]). Thus, as has been proposed males and females and correlate with performance on neural
by many others, it is essential to the shared mission of high- cognitive tasks. Future studies using additional parallel
quality and impactful science that research on sex differences approaches of imaging and performance will be essential to
be expertly conducted, accurately interpreted and appropriately reliably establishing such relationships.
conveyed to the lay public and media. Third is the notion of the brain as a unitary organ that is
Towards that end, it is beneficial to restate logical truisms either ‘male’ or ‘female’. Because the majority of sex differ-
that we all agree on but which are often left out of discussions ences in the brain are established early by gonadal steroids
on sex differences in the brain. First and probably most that differ in males and females, and because the brain resides
important is the inherently obvious fact that human brain in a body that is either male or female, there is an implicit,
and behaviour are far more complex and more profoundly even inherent bias, that brains are male versus female. In this
influenced by environment and experience than commonly issue, Joel and Fausto-Sterling [8] challenge this view and cite
used animal models at every level, meaning fish, reptiles, empirical evidence based on MRI that humans are a single

birds, rodents and non-human primates. Humans are a singular heterogeneous population when considering the brain [9].


Last is that the level of analyses matters. Studies relying on
global imaging techniques such as MRI in humans versus
gene expression profiles or biochemistry in animal models are
profoundly different in both technical and experimental fidelity.
In the first instance, a neuroscientist may be attempting to under-