famous illustration of this phenomenon, Sleight [91]

wrong answers recounted the analysis of data from the International Study
When we compare the sexes, we divide our sample into two of Infarct Survival, which showed a clear benefit of daily
categories. Thus, the very nature of the scientific question aspirin. When the population was divided by astrological


sign, resulting in 12 separate subgroups, the beneficial effect for misrepresenting and sensationalizing their findings

of aspirin was lost in the Libras and Geminis. Testing a [97-100], press releases often contain the same oversimplifica-
hypothesis within each sex incurs a similar risk that an tion, omission of information and misinterpretations as do a
effect will be detected in one sex but not the other, when in news stories [13,51,52,97,101]. The process of packaging our s
fact both sexes are responding. findings into sound bites naturally leads us into the three traps a
The problem with conducting independent tests in males outlined above in §2. Difference is more popular than sameness — =
and females goes beyond the loss of statistical power. Such a [11,102], which may compel us to downplay overlap and S
design does not actually allow us to test whether the effect of announce striking sex differences—thus invoking Fallacy 1. =
treatment depends on sex. To answer that question, we must In order to make newly discovered sex differences more =
test for interactions between sex and treatment. Nonetheless, meaningful to the public, researchers are prone to speculate ‘=
the practice of testing two groups independently is quite about the functions of those differences—thus invoking ©
common in neuroscience. In an analysis of articles in top- Fallacy 2. In an analysis of a highly covered study on hemi- — -5
ranking journals such as Nature Neuroscience and Neuron, spheric connectivity (mentioned above; figure 2de [43]), =
Nieuwenhuis et al. [92] found that authors tested for an inter- O'Connor & Joffe [13] found that dubious claims in the news =
action in only half of the cases in which two experimental stories were actually present in the press release. Some of the -
effects were compared. In the rest, the authors tested for effects claims could be traced to the journal article itself. Although 2
in the two groups independently. When p < 0.05 for one group the study contained no behavioural data, the authors listed a S