tions about fossil placements can seriously bias divergence set, we show here that there is a tendency for TED divergence
time estimates in node dating. This supports the expectation time estimates, under certain conditions, to be pushed back
that an integrative approach, like TED, should be less sensitive to very old strata and to be very imprecise. We term this
to potential methodological problems than a complex stepwise phenomenon ‘deep root attraction’ (DRA). By exploring var-
procedure like node dating, in which it is more difficult to cap- ious prior models, we characterize the causes of DRA. DRA
ture uncertainty in the initial steps (phylogenetic inference, occurs when there are model errors or conflicts in the data
placement of fossils in the tree, derivation of calibration distri- that are difficult to reconcile, and ghost lineages carry little
butions), so that it can be carried over properly to the final cost. A major driver of DRA appears to be inadequacies of
analysis. Thus, TED would appear to have the potential to current morphological models, a problem that is difficult if
close the gap between rocks and clocks often observed in not impossible to address. However, by increasing the cost of
node dating studies. ghost lineages, we show that it is possible to address DRA
Recent work has shown that this is not always the case in and obtain a stable TED solution that is robust to variation in
practice. In fact, TED is often reported to result in divergence prior assumptions. This solution places the radiation of
time estimates that are more uncertain and more at odds crown placentals at around 85 Ma, which is intermediate
with the fossil record than those from node dating or a com- between the explosive radiation scenario and the age estima-
bination of TED and node dating [6,7]. The aim of this paper tes suggested by most previous node dating analyses (for
is to examine why this might be the case. exceptions, see [16,17]).

For several reasons, we chose to focus on the radiation of
mammals, more specifically on the radiation of the Eutheria

(crown-group and stem-group placentals). There may be no 2. Methods

other group with so much data available for a TED analysis,
