tive immune responses are directed to conserved rather than paralytic polio, was formally declared a polio-free country
type-specific antigens. Both RotaTeq and Rotarix have shown in 2014 [59]. Type 2 wild poliovirus was eradicated in 1999,
good safety profiles and have been associated with a low risk and cases of type 3 poliovirus are down to their lowest-ever
of intussusception, far outweighed by their efficacy [55]. The numbers. Although WHO 25 years ago resolved to eradicate
two vaccines have induced comparable frequencies of serocon- poliomyelitis, three countries (Afghanistan, Nigeria and
version (serum IgA responses) in a majority of vaccinees. There Pakistan) remain polio-endemic (down from more than 125
are only few studies reporting on human mucosal antibody in 1988) and outbreaks are feared in civil war areas (Ukraine,
responses against rotavirus vaccines, a problem that may Syria), owing to lower vaccine coverage associated with civil
relate to difficulties in collecting suitable samples from new- insecurity, weakened health systems and poor sanitation.
borns and young infants. Very recently, an Indian vaccine, However, failure to eradicate polio from these last remaining
Rotavac®, based on a naturally reassorted rotavirus strain iso- strongholds may result in as many as 200 000 new cases every
lated from an asymptomatic Indian neonate in 1986, was year worldwide, within 10 years [59]. The failure to eradicate
developed. This strain has the VP4 of bovine rotavirus but all polio may partly be ascribed to the fact that the predomi-
other segments of human rotavirus origin, and showed excep- nantly used oral live poliovirus vaccines (OPV) carry the
tional promise, because infants infected with this strain risk of shedding viruses that have reverted to virulence, so-
manifested strong immunity against subsequent infections called circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus (CVDPV), and
caused by other strains. Following a phase 3 study showing inducing vaccine-derived paralytic poliomyelitis [60]. Because
comparable safety and efficacy to Rotateq and Rotarix in of these risks, most industrialized countries have now replaced
India, the vaccine has been recommended for introduction the use of OPV with inactivated injectable polio vaccine (IPV)
by the Government of India and launched in the private in their vaccination programmes. As the global eradication of
market in India in 2015 at a substantially lower price than the polio is hopefully nearing, concerns have been raised in most
two internationally licensed vaccines. Other live oral rotavirus developing countries about the continued use of OPV, and

vaccines are undergoing advanced clinical development how to financially and logistically make it possible in these
