By contrast, a more recent hypothesis suggests that conflict and developing fetus, as such pregnancies are correlated with
between a woman and her adult offspring could be responsible higher risks. From an evolutionary perspective, the issues go

for menopause, as the reproducing generation in a family beyond the questions of menopause and the post-reproductive


lifespan, and include implications for population growth and history. To date, evolutionary anthropologists have focused

evolutionary models of fitness and generation times [8]. their attention on menopause and the post-reproductive life-

In terms of life-history theory, stopping reproduction also span rather than taking a more direct look at when women
differs from menopause in a number of interesting ways. actually have their last baby. Too often, age at last birth is
As noted above, even if it is ultimately right-censored by meno- assumed to be relatively invariant, when in fact, it is highly
pause, age at last birth is often more variable than menopause variable. Demographers, in contrast, have much less to say
both within and across populations. Unlike menopause, stop- about menopause, but have paid considerable attention to
ping behaviour is also more amenable to direct control. This age-specific fertility rates and identifying stopping behaviour
is not to say that age at menopause exhibits no systematic or in demographic data. Their desire to estimate underlying ferti-
even adaptive variation—e.g. through genetic, developmental lity rates at the population level, however, ignores the
or nutritional affects—but compared to last birth, there is no sometimes messy, lived reproductive histories of women—
evidence that women can easily or consciously shift their age for example, by focusing only on marital fertility inthe absence = 5
at menopause through non-medical approaches. By contrast, of any control. We provide evidence both across and within =
behavioural influences on age at last birth include a vast populations that variation in age at last birth is substantial. =
array of options (e.g. through mating status, coital frequency, For example, among Bangladeshi women, age at last birth -
contraception or infanticide), and may even extend beyond was more variable (s.d. 5.5) than age at menopause (s.d. 3.5), 2
the woman herself to include social pressure from others with over half of all women stopping a decade or more S