costs and benefits to women. Women who start reproduction dance of females, rather than the availability of males—ie. all
too early tend to experience greater infant mortality risks women can reproduce with a few men—anything that reduces
throughout adulthood [74]. Optimal age at first birth models female fitness will likely reduce population growth. This
fit with data from pre-demographic transition populations suggests that increases in female autonomy, power or leverage
show that intermediate ages maximize a woman’s reproduc- in mating systems should increase the sum of individual
tive success, usually in the late teens, meaning that lowering women’s fitness, and therefore population growth. And yet
the age at first birth beyond that was predicted to reduce the demographic transitions of the past two centuries from
women’s fitness [63,74]. This sets up a potential sexual conflict high- to low-fertility strategies have been accompanied by
of interest between men needing to compete for younger wives, some of the largest increases in female economic and reproduc-
and women having a later optimal age at first birth. On the tive autonomy and led to the first populations known to have
other hand, earlier ages at first birth are often empirically below-replacement reproduction despite no resource scarcity.
associated with higher number of surviving children [63,75— At the individual level, most of the evidence to date suggests
78]. The net effect of this lower age at first birth in polygynous that adopters of these lower fertility strategies in fact ended
societies seems to be positive for fitness and has tended to pro- with lower lineage fitness—i.e. they had fewer descendants
mote their spread—e.g. of nineteenth century Mormons [79]. up to five generations down the line [80,81].
This suggests we should flip the question around and A more nuanced examination of the evolution of male

ask why women in monogamous societies tend to wait so control of female reproduction reveals the importance of


considering diverse interests on the part of males [82]. There a commensurate decrement in infant or maternal mortality,

are many other proposed pathways whereby improving the speaks against their being detrimental to women’s fitness or
social capital of women can motivate lower fertility (e.g. chan- their resulting in the maladaptive coercion of women.
