
models of human capital inspired by the work of Gary seemingly maximize individual fitness [83]: the few direct

Becker, to explain fertility variation across both traditional tests of the hypothesis that fertility maximized fitness found
natural-fertility populations and modern low-fertility popu- that the women who had produced the most children in a par- a
lations [79]. According to Kaplan, in small-scale societies ticular population also had the highest fitness. This suggests s
similar to those in which our ancestors evolved, the returns that the majority of women in that population who were not a
to parental investment in an offspring’s adult productivity reproducing at the maximum fertility were not maximizing fit- — 2
reach diminishing returns relatively quickly, whereas in ness, which leads to the question of why they did not produce = S
modern wage-labour economies returns to investment in off- more children. This conclusion set up a variety of challenges, =
spring do not diminish until higher levels—particularly for which are subsequently being taken up in the second wave =
those with higher levels of embodied capital in the modern of evolutionary research on fertility. One challenge was to “2
form of education. In consequence, the psychology that had determine if fertility rates do, in fact, maximize fitness innatu- ©
evolved to detect diminishing returns leads modern parents ral fertility populations and if so, then what was wrong with = -5
to invest more in a smaller number of children, with decisions first wave measures of fitness (were they too short-term, or =
to invest more in each child leading to a particular number of missing some vital component, such as not taking sufficient =
children. Modernization is also accompanied by novel con- account of individual variation in state, or condition?). And if -
ditions where offspring survival is virtually guaranteed and observed fertility rates do not maximize fitness, then why 2
where few individuals have insufficient resources to repro- not, and what is a better model of fertility variation? This S
duce, providing little check on the motivation for high child leads to the need for models that integrate explanatory hypoth- w
investments. Consequently, modern fertility declines below eses with a more detailed understanding of proximate factors =~
fitness-maximizing levels, but can nevertheless be under- affecting fertility. As we describe below, the second wave has ©
stood as the product of previously adaptive mechanisms. responded to these challenges, both by expanding consider-  S
Kaplan supported this ‘maladaptive’ hypothesis with data ation of the factors influencing fertility at proximate and =
showing that fertility limitation in modern populations ultimate levels, and by methodological and_ theoretical