case [2], the negative or null relationships he claimed to raising children. Alternatively, people may be predisposed to =
have established were called into question by, among other copy the behaviour of other reference groups, specifically =
things, the use of unrepresentative convenience samples, those high in prestige [23], which may result in limiting fertility “2
fuzzy notions of social success and status that attempted to under the (perhaps mistaken) assumption that such behaviour s
capture access to ‘superior resources’ (p. 168; i.e. the use of leads to better outcomes. Others have argued that, because ~
proxies as diverse as material wealth, occupational status, children face intense competition with peers to get ahead, =
‘eminence’, and intelligence), and the inclusion of people and there is no real limit on parental investment (i.e. children =
who had not yet completed their reproductive careers. More- will always be of higher quality if they receive continued heavy -
over, a number of the relationships Vining found were investment), ‘run-away’ processes are likely, which favour a
actually positive; something that did not, however, lead high expenditure on offspring and, because resources are R
him to doubt his ‘universal regularity’. In Pérusse’s case, finite, result in low fertility [24,25]. w
similar criticism was directed at the snowball sampling Another set of analyses considered whether limiting =
design using Quebecois college students, the composite fertility could, in fact, maximize long-term fitness. Several ©
measure of different status markers, some rather simplistic formal theoretical treatments confirmed that reducing fertility =
analyses (e.g. Bookstein went so far as to call these a ‘polem- could be adaptive under certain conditions ([26-28], but see a
ical abuse of statistics’ [13]), and some very small sample [29]). However, there were no conditions under which the
sizes. Pérusse also made the assumption that, in a world wealthy were expected to lower their fertility more than
without contraception, wealthy men would have achieved their poorer counterparts. Models designed to address this
the same number of additional matings as they do today, latter point explicitly suggested that foregoing higher fertility
and that these would translate into higher fertility; in either to invest in higher social status (so decreasing the risk
his view, widespread contraception created a mismatch of mortality during very harsh periods [30]) or to enable
between our past and present environments and disrupts intense investment in wealth accumulation for descendant
the wealth—fertility link. lineages [25], could increase long-term fitness by reducing

the likelihood of lineage extinction (see also [31]).