such forms of wealth is likely to be detrimental, it is unclear snapshot of existing longitudinal data on the association
whether high levels of embodied and relational wealth between wealth and fertility. We generated 242 different a
should be associated with high fertility. For instance, how articles without overlap. We were as inclusive as possible in s
exactly should the prestige or status associated with being a our selection process: the only stringently applied criterion a
doctor, net of her resources, predict fertility? In contrast, pre- was that the study should contain a longitudinal analysis = 2
dictions are much more straightforward for material wealth: that dealt with the effect of wealth on subsequent (proxies 5
all else being equal, more resources should lead to higher fer- of) fertility. Even so, this produced a sample of only 13 =
tility. Second, the evolutionary anomaly pointed out by (5%) articles with relevant longitudinal measures ([60—72]; =
Vining and others is that ‘superior resources’ are associated see the electronic supplementary material for a description ‘S
with lower fertility; hence material wealth is the focus of of these 13 studies and further description of the methods ‘©
most criticisms of an evolutionary approach. used). ~
This decision means that we do not consider education in There was some variation in outcome measures across the = =
any detail, despite the fact that, typically, it is negatively 13 articles we reviewed in detail, ranging from the probability S
associated with fertility ([55]; see also above). Although edu- of parenthood, second and third births, all births and child -
cation is often considered a wealth-seeking strategy, it is clear mortality (which we included because reduced mortality 2
that education cannot be reduced to this alone: education might be a mechanism through which wealth can be associ- S
brings many other individual advantages, including better ated with a higher number of children). It is important to w
health, more autonomy, and a broader perspective on life mention that the sampling design of some studies potentially =~
goals and opportunities. It is also clear that there is no led to substantial problems of self-selection [73] (e.g. only ©
simple substitution of education for fertility, because societal sampling individuals who already had children), which ©
structures mean that educational norms and opportunities serves to reduce confidence in the results (for further discus-
overlap with women’s most fertile years [51]. People who sion, see [11,74]). In all cases, the measure of wealth reported
choose education may well intend to have a family (and was income (whether of respondents, spouses or house-
even a large family; [56]), but fail to realize their intentions holds). Only rarely was information provided on household
because of these institutional constraints. Furthermore, there assets. The studies covered four Western European countries