low-fertility contexts generally [24]. Interdisciplinary collabor- reduction across industrialized/modernized societies (i.e.
ation and appreciation of multiple approaches—including there seem to be no exceptions) and (ii) the notion that repro-
evolutionary theory—will be needed to develop alternative ductive behaviour is completely driven by social norms and
population projections in the future [6]. individual preferences that have essentially nothing to do
Ina prominent review article about population projections, with evolution. For instance, Lutz [4] states that ‘through the
Lee [1] noted the lack of guiding theory by saying: ‘Lacking introduction of modern contraception, the evolutionary link
practical guidance from grand dynamic theories, forecasters between the sex drive and procreation has been broken
rely on a largely descriptive framework known as the demo- and now reproduction is merely a function of individual
graphic transition. ..’ (emphasis added). Within demography, preferences and culturally determined norms’.
the demographic transition has been referred to as a theory, a While we are somewhat skeptical of this view, because it
model, a paradigm, and a description [3,5,8,9,17]. We agree excludes other possible influences on fertility aside from cul-
with Lee that the appropriate term is descriptive framework. turally determined norms, we suggest that even if fertility is
The lack of guiding theory contributes to the fact that different determined only by norms and preferences, an evolutionary
projections can be wildly divergent. Until recently, the United approach is still warranted. There is an entire field of study

Nations medium forecasts often predicted zero growth by the devoted to cultural evolution, and fertility decline is a


commonly addressed topic [29,30]. We especially disagree with We suspect little agreement on how much of a role genetics | 4 |

the notion that contraception breaks the link between human will play in the future of fertility. We briefly summarized a few
fertility and the processes of evolution. Although norms and findings above, showing that fertility is both correlated with fit- a
preferences are clearly an essential part of fertility decision- ness and that fitness-related traits are linked to specific alleles s
making in humans (we consider that view non-controversial), that should go up in frequency as those individuals have a
both age at first birth and total number of births are genetically more children. Several additional studies have shown that = 2-