the number of atoms (or molecules). On the basis of the distribution of equilibrium heterophase
fluctuations, Zel’dovich obtained the relationship between the aforementioned coefficients (see
also [11]). Therefore, the problem was reduced to finding only one coefficient—the rate of growth
of the nuclei. This approach works particularly well for small nuclei. With the growth of large
nuclei, there are a number of limitations connected with the fact that the distribution function
of heterophase fluctuations is determined on the basis of the hypothesis of the homogeneity of
the system surrounding the growing crystallite (in general, gradients of concentration and/or
temperature always exist around the growing nucleus).

Summarizing the above, we note that the works of Volmer, Weber, Becker and Déring [6-
8] form the basis of the classical theory of nucleation. Moreover, the equations determining the
growth process are the Fokker—Planck-type equation for the particle-size distribution function
and the mass balance and/or heat balance equation. An important fact is that the form of the
Fokker-Planck kinetic equation can be different as a result of the physical nature of the nucleation
process under consideration. For example, this equation is the first-order equation and has the
form of a continuity equation in the case of neglecting ‘diffusion’ processes over the crystal size
space. If this ‘diffusion’ is taken into account, this equation is the second-order equation with
variable coefficients [11-13].

The process of phase transition in a metastable system is traditionally divided into several
stages associated with the presence of characteristic relaxation times [12]. The initial stage of
the phase transformation corresponds to large supersaturations (supercoolings), when, owing
to nucleation, a large number of viable nuclei are formed (their initial size exceeds the critical
one). This stage of the process is characterized by small sizes of nuclei located at large distances
from each other. As this takes place, the level of metastability (supersaturation or supercooling)