along the axis of the cylinder and the slowness of the flow, rather than a perturbation parameter
that depended on the geometry which was a measure of the non-circularity of the cross-section, to
study the flows of Rivlin—Ericksen fluids.> Rivlin—Ericksen fluids fall under the category of what

1 The following comments are not meant to diminish whatsoever the significant contributions of Rivlin to non-Newtonian
fluid mechanics. It is, however, necessary to view his early efforts with the insight and hindsight that several decades of
research, that have been built upon his innovative studies, offers. Rivlin-Ericksen fluids cannot stress relax, a characteristic
exhibited by a very large class of non-Newtonian fluids, nor can they exhibit instantaneous elasticity. While this limits the
scope of application of Rivlin-Ericksen fluids, general power-law fluids that are a special subclass of Rivlin-Ericksen fluids
are useful in describing a reasonably large class of non-Newtonian fluids. Also, other than in the case of the Navier-Stokes
model and power-law fluid models, that are Rivlin-Ericksen fluids of order one, one will encounter serious problems with
regard to the specification of boundary conditions for the boundary-value problems for higher-order Rivlin-Ericksen fluids,
as the equations governing the flow lead to partial differential equations of order n +1 for fluids of order 1. This, in fact,
led investigators to study very special boundary-value problems where terms of order greater than two in the equation
were absent or by using formal perturbation methods to solve boundary-value problems without recognizing that they were
treating singular perturbations as though they were regular perturbations. Also, while the early attempt by Greensmith &
Rivlin to determine pressure hole errors was an important investigation, they incorrectly concluded that such errors do not
exist. Also, Rivlin’s work on multiple integral representations with Green and others does not have much utility as it is well-
nigh impossible to design an experimental programme to determine uniquely the material properties of the fluids defined
using the integral representations. The equations that they engender are also very computationally challenging, to use and
this is why no initial-boundary-value problems that correspond to realistic practical problems have been solved within the
context of such models. Rivlin’s recognition of the analogous behaviour of the flows of non-Newtonian fluids and turbulent
flow of a Navier-Stokes fluid, namely the similarity in the structure of the secondary flow in tubes of non-circular cross-
section, while interesting, is at best a very superficial analogy and thus his conjecture that one can use this to develop models
for the turbulent flow of a Navier-Stokes fluid is a gross over-simplification at best.