lithosphere the ellipticity produced in the geoid by rotation would be slightly greater
than that produced in the lithosphere, and thus there is a tendency to lay bare the
polar regions ; but, since the land of the globe does not consist of two circular islands
at the poles, there are other deviations from sphericity, both of lithosphere and geoid,
and the relative amounts of these at different places can be expressed by the difference
of radii drawn from the centre of gravity. According to the theory which has been
here advanced this difference of radii should be, at least in its general features,
expressible as a sum of spherical harmonics of the first, second and third degrees.

54. It is easy to verify the presence of some of these harmonics. The effect of
a term of the first degree would be to make the lithosphere protrude from the geoid
towards one side. If this term were the only one, the land of the globe would form
a circular island or continent. It is the fact that most of the land is in one
hemisphere. The great circle of the globe which contains most land has a pole
situated between Orléans and Le Mans* (latitude 48° N., longitude 30’ E.). Again,
the zonal harmonic of the third degree vanishes at three circles, one being a great
circle. If this term were the only one, the land of the globe would consist of
a circular island surrounded by a belt of ocean in one hemisphere, and in the
antipodal hemisphere there would be a circular ocean surrounded by a ring of land.
This arrangement corresponds to two features of Sonnas’ description of the Earth’s
surface. The nearly symmetrical breaking at three places of the belt and three of
the ring, which he also noticed, indicates the presence of the sectorial harmonic of the
third degree. If we refer to the polar axis, instead of any other morphological axis,
the presence of the zonal harmonic of the third degree is indicated by the existence
of an Antarctic continent, and by the fact that most of the land of the globe is north