£ figure is that # should be a maximum for all variations, and this is so if certain
& constraints are introduced ; but in the absence of such constraints the figure may be
© Stable although Z is a minimax.
= It has been shown by M. Pornears that the stability must be determined from the
= variations, subject to constancy of angular momentum, of the total energy of the
6 system, both kinetic and potential. The two portions of the total energy, say U, are
® again W and 7; but whereas FH involves the lost energy W of the system under the
g action of the gravitation potential, U involves the potential energy which is equal to
3 —W. Thus U'is equal to— W+ 7.
The variation of U with constant angular momentum leads to results for the
6 determination of the figure identical with those found from the variation of with
= constant angular velocity. But there is this important difference, that to insure
© secular stability 7 must be an absolute minimum. It appears, in fact, that, in the
= case of the pear-shaped figure, while / is actually a maximum for all the deforma-
£ tions but one, it is a minimum for that one, which consists of an ellipsoidal strain of
g the critical Jacobian ellipsoid from which the pear-shaped figures bifurcate (§ 19).
& But M. Porncart has adduced another consideration which enables us to determine
% the stability of the pear by means of the function /, without a direct proof that U is
$ a minimum for all variations. For he has shown that if for given angular momentum
a slightly less than that of the critical Jacobian ellipsoid, the only possible figure
© is the Jacobian, and if for slightly greater angular momentum there are two figures
(namely, the Jacobian and the pear*), then exchange of stability between the two
series must occur at the bifurcation. If, on the other hand, the smaller momentum
corresponds with the two figures and the larger with only one, one of the two
coalescent series must be stable and the other unstable. Now it has been proved