the overall resolution of the arrival time measurement. For these techniques, the measurement
window, which limits the temporal range of the measurement, is fixed by the spatial diameter
of beam overlap. By contrast, spectral encoding techniques imprint the change in transmission
on a highly chirped super-continuum pulse. Thus, a measure of the delay comes from the chirp-
controlled monotonic wavelength to time mapping [57]. One benefit of this spectral mapping is
the adjustable temporal range as well as the independence of spatial beam profile for either X-rays
or optical beams.

When moving to a solution for the upcoming high repetition rate FEL sources like LCLS-II, the
interaction material becomes a primary concern. X-ray fluence levels of order 50-100 mJ cm~?
at the sample are typical of 10% AR/R [55] in traditional spatial reflectivitity and spectral
transmission measurements. This is a level that is uncomfortably close to the materials damage
threshold and in fact the interaction materials, typically YAG (yttrium aluminum garnet,
Y3A150 12) or SigN4, already show discoloration and damage during experimental exposure at
120 Hz operation. Clearly, a much more X-ray dose tolerant material with sufficient thermal

transport is needed as we move to the high average power of the LCLS-II. : =

It has been recently demonstrated that an interference mode of spectral encoding (figure 7) : =
allows one to measure the induced refractive index change in diamond at X-ray fluence levels 1B
that are two orders of magnitude lower than that required for the traditional measurements. Not :2
only does this allow for less energy deposition in the material, it also allows for the use of a 8
thin diamond transmission window as an interaction medium, which has a large bulk thermal : o
conductivity [58,59]. The interference scheme uses crossed and matched birefringent plates to in
temporally shear an originally 45° linear polarization into two crossed polarization states ( and v) : =