
In the absence of a mean flow, figure 3 shows the influence of the fibre oscillation frequency and
the initially phasing between the vortex and fibre on the reduced acoustic pressure, as compared
to the limiting case of a stationary, upright fibre, whose results have been verified against the
literature [19,20]. To facilitate comparison, the retarded time is referenced with respect to when
the vortex crosses x =0. For w=0.1 and w=1, the effect of the change in phase angle w is
predominantly to shift the acoustic signature left or right, which agrees with the shift in the vortex
path in figure 4a,b. The extrema of the acoustic signals increase with the oscillating frequency ,
with the exception of #=1 when ~ =2/2 or 37/2. In these cases, figure 4b indicates that the
phase between the vortex and fibre motion increases the minimum distance between the two,
leading to a weaker acoustic emission. For the largest oscillating frequency considered, w = 10,
it is clear that prescribed fibre motion modulates the acoustic signal and leads to large increases
in the acoustic noise level. These results are consistent with the fact that a larger relative velocity
between the vortex and fibre when in close proximity leads to peaks in the acoustic signature.
The high oscillation frequency also affects the vortex trajectory, bringing the vortex nearer the
fibre and breaking strongly the left-right symmetry of the vortex path.

The qualitative parametric trends for € = 0 also hold when a mean flow of magnitude € = 1 is
introduced in figures 5 and 6. With mean flow, a case is again found for w = 1 when the oscillating
fibre creates a weaker acoustic output than for a fixed fibre, occurring instead at y =0, which
indicates that the background flow also plays a substantial role in the phasing between the vortex
and fibre motions. As anticipated, the acoustic pressure extrema occur at greater magnitudes due
to the enhanced relative velocities between the vortex and fibre when in closest proximity.

