

methods and applications of time-resolved X-ray spectroscopy using X-ray free-electron lasers in the area of 2 |
liquid-phase photochemistry. But I decided not to do this. Instead I am trying to do something different and

this is an attempt to explain what it is. The idea may be unusual but hopefully will turn out to be useful.
It is motivated by the request to keep this contribution accessible to non-specialists combined with my
ambition to make it attractive to those already established in the field. Instead of giving a complete account
following a chronological order or following a structure imposed by methods or systems, I tried to assign
classical and modern studies to topics of enduring relevance such that each collection of studies spans from
fundamentals to future prospects. With this completely subjective and necessarily incomplete selection,
which of course is nothing else than re-sorting a very lintited set of representative investigations, I want to
at least help motivating future applications of time-resolved X-ray spectroscopy in photochemistry. In fact,
I have another intention. When put together, such as here, these collections, hopefully, expose a common
pattern: ‘things are coming together’. X-ray free-electron lasers may be considered transformative tools
that give access to new observables which, when combined with established knowledge, can be used to bring
back together different aspects of the same problem. Aspects that belong together but got separated with :
time or increasing specialization in the various subfields, aspects that were treated in different disciplines :=
or communities, aspects that seemed unrelated or remained separated because they contradicted each other i=
or seemed inconsistent with one another, now, with the advent of X-ray free-electron lasers, come together. : Pe
The seemingly inexplicable inconsistencies and contradictions vanish and new insight is enabled. With a 1p
sequel at the end of this contribution I will try to illustrate and validate this claim based on a famous historic :8
example. are

1. Time-resolved X-ray spectroscopy of photochemical reactions :8