disregarding this influence, as EPR do, that gives EPR’s criterion of reality its ‘essential ambiguity’
when it applied to quantum phenomena, which ambiguity disables their argument [9, p. 700]. By
contrast, by exposing the irreducible nature of this influence and taking it into account, Bohr was
able to argue that neither EPR’s argument for the incompleteness of QM nor their alternative
reasoning that leads to non-locality could be sustained. Bohr’s thinking concerning the situation
eventually led him to his ultimate interpretation, in which only what has already occurred in a
measurement determines any physical quantity considered, and not what has been predicted (even
with certainty) and is yet to be confirmed by a measurement. As I said, however, Bohr’s reply
assesses EPR’s argument on their own terms, whereby it is possible to assign certain properties to
quantum objects, under the constraints of the uncertainty relations and complementarity, at the
time measurements. Bohr also assumes, as do EPR, that this assignment is in principle possible on
the basis of a prediction rather than only a measurement, albeit only predictions that are in principle
verifiable. This is in fact a necessary qualification, which requires further nuancing (discussed
below), but it is missed by EPR.

Thus, both EPR and Bohr assume that the EPR experiment for (S;, 5) can be set in two
alternative ways so as to predict, with the probability equal to unity, either one or the other of
the complementary measurable quantities for Sz on the basis of measuring the corresponding
quantities for S;. Let us call this assumption ‘assumption A’.

From this assumption, EPR infer that both these quantities can be assigned to S2, even though
it is impossible to do so simultaneously (in view of the uncertainty relations for measurements
on S}). This makes QM incomplete (by EPR’s criterion) because it has no mechanism for this
assignment, unless one allows for non-locality [16, p. 141]. Let us call this inference ‘inference E’
(for Einstein).