temperature in the region bounded by 5° N to 5°S, from 170° W to 120° W. This region has large
variability in El Nino time scales.

Applying CCWT on the Nino3.4 series, we have obtained a set of oscillatory components
characterized by their central wavelet frequencies fj which, for convenience, we express as periods
P;. The cross-scale (cross-frequency) interactions are illustrated in the P,—P2 plane for the range
of P; from 0.4 to 6.8 yr. Figure 2a presents the areas of statistically significant mutual information
I(¢1(E); 62(t)). In this case, the statistical significance means the rejection of the null hypothesis
of independent phases ¢;(f) and ¢(f). This significance is not necessarily evidence for phase
synchronization of the two oscillatory modes, but indicates any coherence of their phases, or
intermittent episodes of phase synchronization. The most striking area of phase coherence in the
symmetric picture of figure 2a is the association of the phases of the annual and biennial cycles.
In fact, the area of the phase coherence extends around the biennial cycle from the period 19 to 26
months. The area around the annual cycle includes also the oscillations with the periods 8-10 and
14-16 months. The latter oscillatory mode is also coherent with the annual cycle. Next, we can
observe a coherence between the modes with the periods 5-5.5 yr and the modes with the periods
between 2 and 3 yr. Finally, a weaker significance is indicated for the periods 6-6.5 and 4—4.5 yr.

The conditional mutual information I(¢,(t); Ar¢2 | 2(t)) is used to indicate the causal influence
of the phase ¢) on the phase ¢2 (figure 2b). The most striking area of the significant causality is the
influence of the phase of the oscillations with the periods from 4 to almost 7 years on the phase of
the annual cycle and the adjacent cycles with the periods 8-10 and 14-16 months. Then the phases
of the cycles with the periods 3-3.5 yr influence the phase of the cycles with the periods between
2.5 and 3 yr. The oscillatory components with the periods starting under 2 yr and extending to
3 yr influence the phases with the period 14-16 months. The phase of the annual cycle influences