nor ¢, could exist by themselves, but this is practically true of all the wave resolutions
the mathematical physicist habitually deals with. He is accustomed to consider in
electro-magnetism waves of electric and magnetic force, neither have an independent
existence ; of radial and transverse electric displacement, one is impossible without
the other. In the theory of the refraction and reflection of waves at the interface
of elastic media, and its applications to the undulatory theory of light, we do not
hesitate to separate the waves of transverse from longitudinal displacement and to
speak of the former as having an independent existence, yet we are really separating
kinematically what can only coexist. Lastly, consider, perhaps, the most familiar
case, that of the longitudinal vibrations of rods; here the physicists carry the
kinematic resolution so far that they often forget to mention the coexistence of the
vibrations perpendicular to the axis of the rod, without which the longitudinal
vibrations could not exist at all. The fact is that a purely kinematic resolution is
often of first-class physical importance, for one or other of its factors admits of ready
physical determination. Thus, in our present case, ¢, is the sole component of
electric force in the axis of the oscillator, and determined there it is determined for
all points of space at the same distance from the centre. Again, $, + ¢, is the
component of electric force in the equatorial plane, and with determinations there,
, will be known at all points of space. But it was precisely in the direction of the
axis and in the equatorial plane that Herrz made his chief experiments. Thus there
seems considerable advantage in reducing the analysis of the electric force to two
functions, both independent of the latitudes and varying only with the distance from
the oscillator, which can be directly tested in the localities Hertz found best suited
to experimental enquiries. , and ¢, are both independent of the latitude, and give
wave speeds V, and V. having the same values for all points at the same distances