reversing it the phenomena may be repeated, though the current does not now fall off immediately, The
explanation suggests itself that the membrane is impervious to the ions (Cu and CrO, or Fe(CN),) which
have produced it, but not to other ions such as K and Cl. Before the first reversal of the current, only
Cu ions can reach the membrane from the anode side and only CrO, (or Fe(CN),) from the cathode side,
and these cannot pass. After reversal, K and Cl, or other corresponding ions respectively, carry their
charges to and through the membrane. These are now on the wrong side; so that when the current is
again reversed, it is some time before the original state of affairs is restored and the current again cut
down. If, after the membrane is first completely formed, the circuit be broken and everything left
in situ for 24 hours or so, it is found that, on re-connecting without reversal, a very fair current will pass;
but it does not last long. In all probability this is due to simple diffusion through the membrane, by
which a little K and a little Cl find their way across to the parts of the tube previously free from them,

It is a curious fact, no certain explanation of which has yet been arrived at, that when the intermediate
salt is a sulphate instead of a chloride, the copper and chrome ions do not form a membrane on meeting,
but simply intermix with production of a greenish colour ; nor is the current cut down. This difference of
behaviour has been consistently manifested in all the experiments recorded in this paper. Yet copper
sulphate and potassium chromate solutions precipitate copper chromate when mixed. The usual membrane
was, however, obtained with a K,SO, jelly and Cu and Fe(CN), indicators.

The making of osmotic pressure apparatus might be improved by depositing the membrane electrolytically
in the walls of the pot, previously charged with a potassium chloride jelly. Current readings would give
a sure indication of the condition of the membrane during and after its formation,


PROFESSOR O. MASSON ON IONIC VELOCITIES. 341