2 2 weight has been clearly demonstrated. Before passing to the consideration of these
+ indications of parallelism between the thermal and optical behaviour of the crystals of
& the three salts, attention must be drawn to the two following salient facts which are
= apparent from an inspection of the linear coefficients. It is that :
ic The amount of expansion along the direction of the crystallographical axis b is
P practically ly identical for all three sulphates, indicating that the interchange of the
Shthree metals is without influence on the thermal behaviour along the macrodiagonal
2 axis of the crystals. Moreover, the crystals of all three salts expand least along this
5 direction, which is therefore that of the minimum avis of the thermal ellipsoid.
5 These two facts are doubtless of significance with respect to the structure of the
‘8 molecule, apparently indicating absence of the metallic atoms or their spheres of
2 motion from the immediate proximity of the axis 6. The significance becomes
> enhanced in view of the fact that the author has shown (‘Journ. Chem. Soc. Trans.,’
S 1896, p. 507) that the whole of the work on the sulphates and double sulphates
£ points to the conclusion that the structural unit of the crystals of the simple sulphates
g is the simple chemical molecule, a conclusion which is supported by the work of Fock
= (referred to loc. cit.) on the solubility of mixed crystals.
3 ~The relations between the amounts of expansion along the directions of the other
® two crystallographical axes, a and c, are much more complicated, and are evidently
i influenced by the replacement of one metal by another. Considering the coefficients
A of expansion for 0°, the amount of expansion along the direction of the axis ¢ is the
greater in the case of both the potassium and cesium salts ; and for all three salts the
increment is, as already indicated, greater for this than for any other direction. But
in the case of the rubidium salt a remarkable excess of expansion is observed to occur
along the direction of the @ axis, which is the maximum thermal axis at 0°, at the