the different natures of the molecules of the three salts. The replacement of the
atoms of one metal by those of another of higher atomic weight is possibly, and even
probably, accompanied by movement of the relative positions of the constituents of
the molecules of their spheres of motion, as well as by the purely chemical change ;
for not only is the substitution accompanied by an increase of mass, but also by an
increase in the electro-positive energy of the metallic atoms, which may very reason-
ably be expected to result in a closer approximation to the negative atoms, probably
of oxygen, to which they are attracted. There are, however, several interesting facts
Sexhibited by the linear coefficients, which connect their relations very intimately with
those of the optical constants, for which a true progression in the order of atomic
2 2 weight has been clearly demonstrated. Before passing to the consideration of these
+ indications of parallelism between the thermal and optical behaviour of the crystals of
& the three salts, attention must be drawn to the two following salient facts which are
= apparent from an inspection of the linear coefficients. It is that :
ic The amount of expansion along the direction of the crystallographical axis b is
P practically ly identical for all three sulphates, indicating that the interchange of the
Shthree metals is without influence on the thermal behaviour along the macrodiagonal
2 axis of the crystals. Moreover, the crystals of all three salts expand least along this
5 direction, which is therefore that of the minimum avis of the thermal ellipsoid.
5 These two facts are doubtless of significance with respect to the structure of the
‘8 molecule, apparently indicating absence of the metallic atoms or their spheres of
2 motion from the immediate proximity of the axis 6. The significance becomes
> enhanced in view of the fact that the author has shown (‘Journ. Chem. Soc. Trans.,’
S 1896, p. 507) that the whole of the work on the sulphates and double sulphates
£ points to the conclusion that the structural unit of the crystals of the simple sulphates