summer period, both of which affect the spatio-temporal distribution of light penetration into
the ocean. Based on ice charts produced by the Canadian Ice Service over the last five decades,
we conclude that the ice bridge broke up on average two weeks earlier during the 1994-2012
period compared with the 1968-1993 period. In addition, the frequency of occurrence of the


NOW polynya decreased from almost 100% (1968-1993) down to 70% (2002-2012). When the ice
bridge does not form, sea ice flows uninterruptedly through the channel so that the concentration
of ice in Kane Basin drops while that of Smith Sound increases slightly, compared with the
climatology. Changes in the spatio-temporal distribution of sea ice have significant effects on
light availability. This is quantified by integrating the incident SWR that effectively reaches the
ocean surface, that is, after being attenuated by clouds and sea ice over the year. This is shown
in figure 1 in the cumulative SWR anomaly between polynya versus no-polynya years. In fact,
higher cumulative SWR should lead to a general increase in PP in the Arctic Ocean and its
marginal seas [80] where enough nutrients are available in the euphotic zone [64,81]. As a result of
the controlling effect of sea ice on phytoplankton production and, hence, food availability for the
bivalves, correlations between local sea-ice cover and the growth rate of benthic organisms can
be expected and have already been observed. Very high concentrations of sea ice can be viewed
as an inhibitor of PP and the growth of consumers, and, by contrast, a low sea-ice cover leads
to increased PP and food availability for the benthos. For example, sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus
droebachiensis) growth performance is limited by food, especially in high-Arctic areas where sea-
ice cover influences annual primary productivity [82]. This trend is supported by a study [36]
that showed a correlation between an annual index of ice cover and the growth rate of the Arctic
cockle Clinocardium ciliatum. It is, therefore, plausible that the growth performance of bivalves in
Baffin Bay was regulated from the bottom up through the impact of sea ice on phytoplankton