structure of ripple phases in hydrated conditions at the nanometre scale [58]. The observation of


a phase transition process is characterized by a melting point temperature of the ripple phase to
fluid phase, nucleation point and growth directionality for the formation of the ripple phase.
HS-AFM coupled to a temperature-controlled system reported directly ripple to fluid phase
transitions (reversibly) in real time and at high resolution [59]. When the fluid bilayer was cooling
down, ripples appeared as concentric rings progressing from the edge region of the lipid patch
towards the centre upon cooling. This ring-pattern formation was maybe a consequence of a
heterogeneous thermalization along the nanometric patch and cooling progressed from the edges
that exposed the largest surface to the cooling bulk. It could also be a consequence that the
bending and edge formation of the lipids at the patch border represented favourable nucleation
spots for ripple phase reformation, or both. In fact, throughout cycles of heating/cooling, the
ripple phase pattern changed every time, suggesting that the thermal history of the bilayer
was erased in the fluid phase. Based on the van’t Hoff expression, the representation of area
fraction of each phase as a function of the temperature provides estimations about the transition

enthalpy and the cooperativity of the lipid molecules during the process. The cooperativity of 8
each process also accounts for the order of the transition, more cooperative processes relate to : =
first-order transitions, where the latent heat is required to change the phase, while in second- : =
order transitions heat is also necessary for changing the temperature. Ripple phase melting 1B
occurs at locations where ripple pattern interfaces (disorders) are detected. These disordered : =
areas probably comprise a slightly higher amount of liquid-like lipid molecules and hence DR
present ideal locations for initiation of melting or nucleation of the meta-stable ripple phase. : o
Furthermore, the local transition of the bilayer into fluid phase, i.e. a complete mixing of the lipids 8