velocity of the molecules of burning gas. I think the available evidence precludes
the idea that the ignition can be propagated by a few molecules moving with
velocities far above the mean. For, if this were the case, the presence of a diluent
gas ought not to hinder the advance of the wave in the manner it is found to do. The
heat evolved on the formation of a compound molecule is the same whether inert
molecules are in the neighbourhood or not, and for the moment the temperature of
athe compound is the same. If, therefore, the ignition could be propagated by the
advance of individual molecules, we might expect the explosion to be propagated at
Bthe same, or nearly the same, rate in the presence of an inert gas. My experiments
fhave, however, conclusively shown that an inert gas retards the wave by an amount
Awhich depends upon its volume and density. It would seem to follow that each
“layer is heated as a whole and that the advance of the wave depends upon the
Saverage motion of the molecules. Two other facts appear to support this view. It
Bis well known that small electric sparks may be sent through explosive mixtures of
gases, ¢.g., through electrolytic gas, without causing explosion. Yet the temperature
gin the spark must be extremely high, and combination occurs in the path of the spark.
"2 It would seem that the number of molecules heated by each spark was not sufficient to
BE communicate ignition to the rest. Again, when a sound-wave is started in a mixture
Sof gases, its rate of propagation depends upon the mean density of the gaseous
‘S mixture ; there is no selective propagation of the wave by one of the constituents of
S the mixture.* This fact, of which I could find no experimental demonstration for
Egases of widely different density, has been verified, at my request, by Mr. F. J. Smrru
q in the Mmuarp Laboratory, at Trinity College, Oxford. According to Mr. SmrrH’s
& careful experiments, sound is propagated at the same rate in ammonia gas (density 8°5)
3 as in a mixture of equal volumes of hydrogen and oxygen of the same mean density as