where the CP signal and the core intensity signal originate. Such a difference can introduce an
additional phase term in the case of a propagating wave. The problem of the determination of
the height of formation of the intensity and magnetic signals in the Ca 854.2nm spectral line
was addressed in great detail in Murabito et al. [61], Cauzzi et al. [70], Quintero Noda et al. [71].
In addition, the height difference can also dynamically change in a magneto-hydrodynamic
atmosphere, a circumstance that may also contribute to the width of the distribution of the phase
measurements seen in figure 4. Although we cannot completely rule out this second possibility,
in the case of an intense magnetic field strength such as the one considered here (i.e. 4 kG in
the photosphere as inferred from Hinode level 2 inverted data), we expect the Alfvén speed to
be so large (greater than 50kms~!) that the contribution to the measured phase lag from wave


is expected to be significantly large than the contribution from @,n. Indeed, given the fact that
the time difference corresponding to the measured phase lag at a period of 3min (5mHz) is
approximately 20s, the height difference that would cause such a phase delay would be of the
order of at least 1000 km, which is larger than expected from the results presented in the articles
mentioned above. Finally, we recall that along with the —35 degrees component, two additional
components are detected at 0 and +z, which are likely due to opacity effects. If the height
difference contribution were to be significant, then these additional components should also be
displaced along the phase axis, which is not the case. Therefore, we conclude that, regardless
of the exact nature of the contributions to the phase lag discussed above, the mere existence of
a non-opacity-related contribution (the —35 degree component in the distribution) corroborates
the presence of magnetic-like waves (i.e. fast magneto-acoustic mode in the low-f regime, being
clearly distinguishable from the other two components). Our interpretation is also in agreement
with the results of Houston et al. [62], who have found Alfvén/intermediate shocks at the same