An alternative model treats generators as Cournot players who anticipate the effect of their
generation on the clearing price assuming all other agents fix their actions. In this model,
generators compete strategically in the times between each transmission investment, so the
optimal transmission expansion plan is not a straightforward system optimization. Here the
transmission investments are chosen to maximize the social welfare that would result from
generators acting strategically in competition using the transmission assets available. This yields
a multistage optimization problem in which the outcome in each stage is the solution to an
equilibrium problem, rather than an optimization problem as in risk-neutral perfect competition.

To summarize, the model we have in mind has the following structure. A transmission planner
is to determine a plan of transmission investments over a long time horizon that adapts to changes
in circumstances as exogenous market conditions (e.g. demand, fuel prices, etc.) become revealed
over time. The plan accounts for the fact that in the time interval between each transmission
expansion,! each generator in the network will choose a capacity level, and generation amounts
for each period in this interval that will maximize its profits over this time interval, accounting
for the actions of competing generators in a Cournot oligopoly. The transmission investments of
the planner are chosen to maximize the total expected welfare of generators and consumers less
transmission capital costs over the planning horizon. Nomenclature is provided in table 1.

The approach we take to solving such a problem is to formulate a multistage stochastic mixed
integer programme, where binary variables are used to represent the complementarity conditions
that model the Cournot equilibrium. In practical instances the deterministic equivalent version of
this problem is intractable, so we solve it using Dantzig—Wolfe decomposition as implemented in
the JuDGE package [4] written in the Julia language. JuDGE enables the solution of problems of
unprecedented scale using modest computing resources.