
scattering. For this reason, we prefer to present the model-independent analysis in the main text
and the model-dependent approach in the electronic supplementary material.

In the model-independent analysis, the value of the slope is related to q-dependence of the
scattered intensity in the log(I)-log(q) representation of SAXS data. It can be characteristic of well-
defined, although simple, morphologies (e.g. spheres, flat sheets, cylinders, sharp interfaces) [61]
or more complex fractal systems [62]. This approach does not need any preliminary hypothesis on
the morphology, an obvious advantage, although the final interpretation needs complementary
data. The model-dependent analysis requires a hypothesis on the morphology, and it eventually
provides quantitative pieces of information on the structure (e.g. core-shell structure, size,
thickness, density ...). For the latter, we base our hypotheses on the data collected on similar
systems [33,37,59,60] and on the fact that the low-q scattering could be associated with aggregated
objects of ill-defined nature (aggregation of micelles or other morphologies, like platelets, as
found elsewhere) [37,60].

The region below q less than 0.03 A~! is informative on the type of morphology at typical
scales larger than about 200 A. The q dependence of the intensity in the log-log scale, referred
to as the slope, provides the fractal dimension, Df, a model-independent parameter which is
either related to a specific morphology (e.g. —4 for spheres or sharp interfaces, —1 for cylinders,
rods and elongated objects, —2 for lamellar and flat objects) [61] or describing the presence of
bulk, or surface, fractal objects for intermediate values [62]. In the present work, the SAXS data
in figure 3a—c show two distinct scattering regimes at q less than 0.1A~!; for this reason, we
analyse the values of the slope in two regions, below q=0.03 A! (low-q regime) and between
0.03 <q/A~! <0.1 (mid-q regime, figure 3a) for the entire pH range. The values of the slopes