distinguish whether the presence of nanofillers, ie. CNCs in this case, improves the adhesive
properties (or the ‘stickiness’) of the PSAs or do they simply have a positive impact on the film
formation ability of the latex?

Here, we compare the tack and peel strength of the nanocomposite PSA to the work of
adhesion between a silica colloidal probe and the latex film. Tack is a measure of the ability of
the PSA to form a bond to a surface under light pressure and peel strength is the force required to
remove the PSA from a surface under a standard angle (90° or 180°) [3]. Previous works by Foster
and colleagues have used AFM force mapping, nanoindentation and lateral force modulation
to understand film morphology and heterogeneities [45,47,55-57], humidity [58] and ageing
[46,57] on the adhesive properties of PSA films. However, while some of these works mention
the potential to correlate the nano-adhesion of model PSAs to their ‘bulk’ tack, and peel and
shear strengths, no direct comparisons to these specific metrics have been made [59-61]. In fact,
most other nano-adhesion studies of PSAs also focus solely on their properties at the nanoscale
[38,62,63] or compare them to other bulk properties such as the rheological behaviour of the latex
[64]. Furthermore, Phillips et al. [61] reported the only other account where, to our knowledge,
nanoparticle reinforced latexes were investigated using nano-adhesion measurements.

Shown here is the potential to use AFM as a tool to optimize latex-based PSA formulations
to produce PSAs with performance comparable to or exceeding that of their solution-based
counterparts. The ability to examine interactions governing particle coalescence and adhesion
in latex films at the nanoscale, and relate them to the mechanical and adhesive properties of
macroscopic PSAs, will significantly extend the knowledge base necessary to produce heavy-duty
latex-based PSAs. Importantly, this work underlines the potential of using sustainable, plant-
based nanomaterials to improve the performance of water-based PSAs based on their ability to