banding pattern with TEM (figure 1b) [21,22,45,46]. Based on these observations, it was proposed
that the preCols exist as smectic LCs within the vesicles [47]. Recent electron microscopic
investigation visualized the three-dimensional smectic preCol organization (i.e. like books on a
shelf), which is linked to the prominent block co-polymer like hydropathy and charge distribution
along the length of all preCols [45]. Investigation of purified vesicles and preCols reveals the
clear ability of the proteins to self-organize and assemble into aligned fibres in a pH dependent
manner (figure 2) [21,48]. The pH dependence is proposed to arise from the pH-sensitivity of the
histidine residues (pKa ~6.5), which are enriched at the termini of all preCols, such that histidine
is protonated at low pH and deprotonated at basic pH. This is especially relevant given the key
role of histidine in forming metal coordination complexes that provide significant mechanical
stability to the threads (figure 1c) [44]. Studies on peptides based on the histidine-rich sequences
support the crucial role of pH, histidine and metal binding in self-assembly and mechanics
of the fibres and thus for the transition from LC phase to tough fibre [23,49]. In fact, mussel-
mimetic peptide sequences based on the histidine-rich domains have been used for producing
hierarchically structured films and polymer-peptide hydrogels with metal tunable mechanics
[50,51].

7. Byssus cuticle assembly

Byssal threads are sheathed by a granular protective coating (1-5 ym thick) known as the cuticle.
The byssus cuticle possesses an unusual combination of hardness comparable to an epoxy and an
extensibility of nearly 100% before failure, which arises from the hierarchical structure of spherical
granules embedded in a less structured matrix material [52,53] (figure 1c). The granules contain a
protein known as mfp-1, which is enriched in DOPA, while spectroscopic evidence suggests that
the matrix is enriched by sulfur-rich proteins, perhaps recently identified cysteine-rich proteins