out different approaches. One notable exception is Weatherbench [142]. Such benchmark datasets
and frameworks are well established in the ML community (e.g. MNIST [143] or ImageNet [144])
and they contributed substantially to the rapid pace of DL developments in application areas
such as image recognition, video prediction, speech recognition, gaming and robotics. While a lot
of meteorological data is freely available from weather centres and research institutions, proper
use of these data requires some knowledge about Earth system science and the data formats and
tools, which are used by the environmental research community. It might help if tools for reading
and working with these datasets were integrated in major ML frameworks.

When reflecting on the ultimate goal of replacing computationally expensive NWP models
with DL algorithms, it is important to reconsider the objectives of weather forecasting and
carefully define the requirements, which must be met by any potential alternative method. Certain
criteria, which we now consider essential for a ‘good’ weather forecast, may in fact be conceptions,
which are resulting from our experiences with numerical models, and they may not be applicable
to forecasting systems based on DL. One particular aspect in this regard is self-consistency of
forecast results, which is often taken for granted by numerical modellers, even though it is not


strictly fulfilled in current NWP forecast systems. In this article, we consciously propose thinking
about a replacement of the entire core NWP workflow including the DA, numerical modelling,
and output processing, because the task of weather forecasting can then be described as a huge
Big Data problem of mapping a plethora of Earth system observations onto a well-defined set of
specific end-user weather forecast products. Seen in this way, the problem of weather forecasting
is more amenable to DL methods than a replacement of the actual NWP model itself with its
grid structure, operator concepts etc. which are tied to the very concept of classical numerical