of arthropod touch (left) and medium-flow sensitive hair sensilla (right); R viscosity, 5 elasticity, CNS: central nervous system, 8
deflection angle. Arrows with different lengths indicate difference in medium-flow velocity due to boundary layer. [47, modified]
(d) Coloration: (i) Blue and yellow setae of the spider Poecilotheria metallica. (ii) SEM micrographs of the surface of the blue (ii)
and yellow (iv) setae seen in (i). TEM micrograph of a cross sections of the blue hair (iii) and the yellow hair (v). The innermost
layer of the seta shaftis solid; the outer layer consists of six regular lamellae (1-6), alternating with air spaces in the blue hair (iv).
In yellow hairs an irregular cuticular meshwork occupies the peripheral part of the hair shafts (v). Reproduced with permission
from ref. [81].

In addition to the refined fibre arrangement, the protein matrix in the fangs of C. salei is
also enriched with metal ions. Zn ions in a concentration of up to approximately 6 at. % in the
fang’s tip promote local hardening and stiffening of the cuticle by cross-linking with histidine
residues [14,40]. Interestingly however, abrasion resistance in the fang is comparable with that
in the Mn and Ca enriched claw, despite the fact that the former contains more than three times
the amount of metal ions [15]. The smoothness of the surface of the fang tip suggests that friction
is reduced as compared to the ventral surface of the claw [41]. The smooth surface will allow
the spiders to use their fangs to repeatedly puncture prey cuticle and to retract the fangs, as
observed during prey capture and feeding. The fang and claw examples demonstrate that small
architectural modifications in the layered structure as well as the surface structure of the cuticle
support two different mechanical requirements.


(c) Soft and hydrophobic: plastrons and physical gills

Some spiders (e.g. Dolomedes fimbriatus and Argyroneta aquatica) take air bubbles under water that
serve as primary O2 source and as physical gills obtaining O2 from the water [42]. The air layer