position of the peaks. Figure 9 shows the results of our simulations using PyGBe on an isolated
pillar, compared with the experimental results of Ellis et al. on an array of pillars. The results with
PyGBe do not account for the effect of coupling among the pillars, which explains the noticeable
discrepancy on the wavenumbers at which the peaks occur. We proposed a correction, based
on the results reported on Figure S4 of Ellis et al. for the AR=4 case, where the shift on the
wavenumber due to coupling is 12.17 m7! (difference between black and red curves for AR=4
on figure S4 of the supplementary materials). We subtracted this value to that obtained with our
simulations and we show the comparison of our corrected results against those of Ellis et al.: the
experimental data on figure 10, and the computational data on figure 11. When comparing with
their experiments, after the correction was applied, we observe a good match of the wavenumber
for the lower (and stronger) mode, as well as a good match for the third and fourth peaks. The
wavenumber of the second peak, related to a longitudinal excitation (mode Log9 in Ellis et al.),
presents a discrepancy that we believe is related to the fact that our pillar does not have a substrate
underneath. The remaining (fifth) peak also presents a discrepancy, but in this case, we cannot
identify the reason. We did not analyse the peaks out of the range 864-961 cm™, since Ellis ef al.
describe these peaks to be associated with zone-folded LO (longitudinal) phonons of 4H-SiC,
and outside the scope of their study. After considering all these details, we can say that we have
validated our solver PyGBe against the experimental results of fig. 2a, as well as replicated their
computational results.

Throughout all these activities aiming to replicate previous results and validate our
computational model, we faced multiple challenges, starting with the complexity of the system
under study. In both our source papers, we have systems that we were unable to fully model

