focus on the stress loading part of the earthquake cycle [16].

(c) Dynamical controls on long-term deformation

Failure during an earthquake is determined by both the strength of the rocks and the absolute
level of stress, whereas the elastic strain/stress loading history prior to the earthquakes, recorded
in the short-term deformation, only provides information on how this stress state is changing.
Thus, there are many ways that the rocks can break depending on the dynamical state of the
system, and the short-term deformation is not necessarily a good guide to this. In some cases,
failure may just occur on the up-dip megathrust or decollement itself, and the overlying prism
may behave as a more-or-less rigid block. But in other cases, failure will occur within the prism
itself, leading to crustal thickening or thinning accommodated by faulting and folding. Or even
normal faulting if gravitational stresses dominate, despite the fact that the stress loading part of
the cycle was compressional—examples of this may be normal ruptures during the M9+ 2011
Tohoku megathrust Earthquake [68], and the M7.8 2016 Kaikoura reverse strike-slip event [26].
This behaviour may approximate to that described by critical taper theory for a Coulomb wedge,
or some type of plastic flow in response to the total stress field.

An interesting question in this respect is why the short-term deformation along the subduction
margin part of the New Zealand plate boundary zone is similar to the long term, whereas in the
Andes it is not, given both can be well modelled in the same way by locking on the megathrust or a
deep decollement, ignoring surface faulting. This must be a question of rheology. A comparison of
gravitational stresses with the style of deformation in the New Zealand plate boundary indicates
that the lithosphere is weak, with typical bulk lithospheric viscosities in the range 107°-10*! Pa s,
and deviatoric stresses around 10 MPa [24,69]. The distributed mode of faulting, both in the macro