often display images of previously well-characterized macromolecules or biological structures,
such as microtubules, nuclear pores, or actin filaments, as examples for biological applications.
This led to the widespread impression that the applicability of SRM is somewhat limited,
provoking the question ‘What have we learned from SRM?’ On closer examination, this is a
misperception and SRM has become a genuine tool for discovery. However, what has also become
clear over the past years is that, despite the promises of microscopy companies, most SRM
is still not yet ‘turn-key’ in the same way conventional widefield and confocal microscopy is
today. Particular expertise is required, not necessarily in how to ‘press the right buttons’ on any
given commercial system, but for the typically more complex experimental design, the higher
demands on the quality of sample preparations, the more delicate system calibration, and the
complexity in data postprocessing and quantitative analyses. Therefore, the amount of time
and commitment required to do SRM meticulously has been (and still is) a barrier for many
biological and biomedical labs to move into this field. Recognizing this fact, the establishment
of centralized core facilities has become a popular path to not only make advanced imaging
systems available to a wider number of research labs but also to provide the expertise to run those
systems effectively. Secondly, microscopy companies and developers are meanwhile turning their
efforts into making SRM more accessible and reliable, which explains the success of ‘soft super-
resolution’ methods, like rescan confocal, photon reassignment, Airy scan or iSIM [36,106,107],
that come as easy-to-apply add-on features to standard confocal systems.

It is also important to realize that a biological discovery does not necessarily mean revealing
a new structure. Rather than creating ‘nice-looking’ pictures (although that might be a pleasant
side effect), the aim of an imaging experiment is rather to generate meaningful and reproducible
quantitative data that helps to explain a biological phenomenon. Here, the ability to resolve
events in time is as important as distinguishing objects or (macro)molecules in space as is