
(b) The formation of intra-cratonic basins

The availability of maps such as that in figure 5 allowed another association to be made by
McKenzie & Priestley [84]. Many of the stable continental interiors contain extremely large ‘intra-
cratonic’ sedimentary basins, characterized by very long-lived subsidence (typically over a few
hundred Mya) and with little sign of significant normal faulting or extension (i.e. insufficient
to account for the observed subsidence), so that their origins were obscure. They are nearly all
underlain by thick lithosphere. The speculative origin of cratons described in §8 involves the
removal of the upper crust to expose the depleted granulitic residue below it. But that residue
will also be hot, and have to cool, which takes time. It will also subside as it does so, as illustrated
in the cartoon in figure 9. The thick underlying mantle lithosphere will itself have a long thermal
time constant, reminiscent of the long subsidence history of these basins, but in fact the effects are
more subtle, and were investigated by McKenzie & Rodriguez Tribaldos [94], using the Parnaiba
basin in Brazil as an example (figure 9). In the sequence of events shown in the cartoon, there
are three times that matter: (i) When the thickening occurred, because the heating is affected
by the “°K and 75U content, and both were more abundant in earlier Earth history; (ii) how
long the crust remained thick, which determines the degree of heating and (iii) how quickly the
upper crust is removed. In particular, it is the erosion of the topography at faster than the thermal
timescale of the lithosphere that produces the observed rapid initial subsidence. Their fit to the
subsidence data is shown in figure 9, which they intended more to illustrate the concept rather
than to claim it as a unique explanation. With the thick lithosphere, but rapid removal of the
surface layer, there are two time scales involved, and the results are not necessarily intuitive. The
validity of such schemes has yet to be demonstrated and may perhaps be investigated through
the metamorphic history of the underlying basement rocks. Their significance is in proposing