A non-zero vorticity may occur due to vortex flows or as a result of velocity shear. Here, we
consider the average fluid vorticity (V x v) as a proxy for the wave vorticity (¢) to estimate the
strength of the background flow [14]. In figure 82, the ratio, ¢/N and figure 8b the Brunt—Vaisala
frequency as a function of height for the three models. We see that for most of the atmosphere, ¢/N
is below unity, suggesting that the model does not have strong background flows to influence the
propagation of IGWs. However, the horizontal field model seems to have a larger ¢/N at higher
layers compared to both the vertical field and non-magnetic case, suggesting that IGWs are more
likely to break in the former case. The Sun-h100 model shows a lower Brunt-Vaisala frequency
compared to the other models, as a result of the higher density and pressure scale height. A more
detailed analysis would require estimating the wave vorticity in the kj,-w diagnostic diagram and
exploring the ratio for a given Fourier component, which is planned for the future. However,
from the energy transport perspective, we have seen that horizontal magnetic field allow IGWs
to propagate upwards into the atmosphere. Combined with the fact that, horizontal models
also show stronger nonlinearity parameter, this suggests that wave breaking may be a possible
scenario by which IGWs dissipate their energy in an atmosphere with predominantly horizontal
fields. Vertical fields, on the other hand, appear to prohibit IGWs from propagating into higher
layers and therefore prevents them from undergoing wave-breaking at chromospheric heights.

The numerical solver used in this work is capable of capturing strong discontinuities related to
wave breaking condition, but the coarse resolution of the simulation restricts us from exploring
this aspect adequately. The models presented in this work are of low resolution (5x, 6y = 80 km)
that do not capture strong vorticity, and therefore it is unclear if wave breaking is still the reason
for the decrease in energy flux that we observe. We see that the average temperature remains

