performed a detailed simulation campaign examining different delays between the compression
and the short pulse responsible for triggering shock formation. In practice, this translates into
initiating the PIC simulations with different density profiles. Here, we are going to report results
obtained when a delay of 21 ns was taken into account. At this time, the long compression pulse
has already heated the corona initiating the rocket effect to compress the core. The main pulse
thus interacts with a plasma whose density increases exponentially until a peak of np = 146 ne,
where 1; is the critical density where the laser frequency wp = 27c/A9 equals the electron plasma
frequency wp = 4 enc/me (see figure 1, which shows the electron density as a function of
distance in logarithmic and linear scale respectively). Here, c is the speed of light in vacuum,
e the elementary charge and m, the electron mass. The initial plasma temperature is set to
0.1 MeV. We note that the selected plasma temperature is slightly higher than that predicted by
hydrodynamic simulations (see for instance fig. 2 in [12]). However, this choice does not have any
impact on the results. In fact, as will be clear later, the intense laser pulse heats up the electrons
to temperatures which are a couple of orders of magnitude higher than our initial choice. It is
thus this temperature that influences the shock formation and propagation. In order to explore
the interaction and the subsequent plasma dynamics, a simulation box 925 1m long and 18 1m
wide was adopted. The system is numerically resolved with two cells per electron Debye length
Ap = VkpTe/4z e21c, where kg is the Boltzmann constant and T, the electron temperature. The
temporal step is chosen to satisfy the Courant condition. In order to model the plasma dynamics
correctly 36 particles per cell and quartic interpolation were employed. A parameter scan has
been performed to check that the resolution and the number of particles per cell do not affect
the simulation results. Periodic boundary conditions were imposed for the transverse direction,
while absorbing boundary conditions were used for particles and fields along the longitudinal
direction. Our PIC simulations do not include collisional effects. We are modelling the interaction
of an intense laser with the corona plasma, which is collisionless. The mean free path values for