the more physically correct VFP simulations. 2D CTC simulations showed that this unphysical
transport barrier did indeed modify the rate of B-field generation by the Biermann battery, leading
to an increase in the magnitude of the magnetic field by a factor of two after 60ps of laser
heating for f = 0.05 compared to f = 0.15. This suggests that our MHD predictions of the magnetic
field from the Biermann battery are dominated by a numerical artefact (the flux limiter induced
transport barrier). In addition, in the f = 0.05 case the electron temperature profile steepened so
much that the temperature dropped by a large fraction of the peak over a few grid cells. This
would be expected to introduce not only inaccuracies in calculating the electric field, but the
thermal transport as well.

While the direct effect of nonlocality on the Biermann battery is interesting the indirect effect
of the flux limiter is more important. There is no single value for the thermal flux limiter f which
accurately captures kinetic effects. The fact then that MHD simulations of the Biermann battery
should depend so strongly on f therefore suggests that care should be exercised interpreting the
results of such simulations. For example, MHD simulations of indirect drive ICF suggest that
large magnetic fields may be generated by the Biermann battery but the effect of the flux limiter
(f =0.15 was used) on these predictions was not explored [4]. Recently particle in cell kinetic
simulations have been used to demonstrate further departures from simple MHD modelling, for
example the formation of filaments due to the Weibel instability [24,25]. This effect is not included
in our modelling as it is reliant on higher order anisotropy in the electron distribution function.
Indeed the IMPACT simulation results present here are at the limits of the validity of truncation
of the electron distribution at first order anisotropy. Higher order terms are negligible if the ratio
of the scale length to the mean free path is small [13], yet as an example they are of approximately
the same magnitude at the heat front (defined as being at the half maximum of the temperature
profile) for the IMPACT-produced temperature profile marked ‘VFP’ in figure 2. While this may