hydrodynamic and parametric instabilities are minimized. Along with operating at low
convergence ratio, this is achieved by selecting upper permissible limits on implosion velocity,
in-flight aspect ratio and on-target intensity. By considering only the results of simulations which
satisfy all four of these criteria, the campaign is limited to a regime where the effect of instabilities
should be small and where the 1D simulation code should provide reasonable estimates of the


experimental performance. The purpose of this paper is not to suggest that the specific gains
that these simulations predict are actually obtainable experimentally. For this to be the case,
more detailed simulations in higher dimensions would be required. The gains presented are also
not in themselves particularly remarkable, with much higher gains being regularly reported for
simulation work. Rather, the notable and novel aspect of this work is in its identification of a
regime where instability growth is expected to be low, and the fact that 1D simulations suggest
that reasonable gain is possible in such a regime. The 1D simulations are intended only to provide
an indication of performance, but it is believed that this initial estimate is sufficiently high to
warrant further investigation of this regime and approach.

The inability of 1D simulation codes to provide an accurate predictive capability is a
significant obstacle to achieving ignition, and attempts to mitigate this issue (aside from this
paper’s approach of operating in a regime where these capabilities are better) are under
development. A notable example of research efforts to address this problem was presented by
Gopalaswamy et al. [7], who used a statistical approach to find relationships between simulated
code outputs and existing experimental data in order to better predict future performance.
Experiments at the OMEGA facility on the basis of their predictions allowed them to generate
an impressive neutron yield of 1.6 x 10'*, which would correspond to 500 kJ of fusion energy on