The ideal ignition temperature (or temperature at which the fusion energy produced is greater
than the radiation losses) is further increased when different ions are present in the plasma.
Bremmstrahlung emission scales with atomic number as Z?, and so the presence of heavier ions
contributes to increased radiation losses and higher ignition thresholds [25]. In wetted foam
implosions, the presence of carbon ions in the central plasma (from the CH foam) can therefore
result in higher ignition temperatures than would otherwise be expected. A worst-case estimate
of this effect can be calculated by considering a plasma where the atomic composition equals that
of the foam layer. With current manufacturing techniques, a 250mg cm™$ wetted foam layer will
contain 25mg cm~? of CH foam, giving an atomic fraction for carbon of approximately 2% [26].
A plasma with this atomic composition has an ideal ignition temperature of approximately
5.2 keV, compared to approximately 4.4 keV when no carbon is present. This demonstrates that
the ignition temperature will be increased by the presence of carbon, and may be higher than
predicted by equation (2.4). Despite the fact that this estimate does not account for the actual
hotspot composition and likely overestimates the carbon content, it is likely that it still an
underestimate of the temperature at which a capsule would actually achieve ignition. This is
because it is an ideal estimate where only radiation losses due to Bremmstrahlung are considered,
and in reality other processes such as conduction, hydrodynamic effects and alpha particles losses
(ie. accounting for the fact that not all alpha particles are absorbed, and so some of the generated
energy is lost from the system) also lead to an increase in ignition temperature.

While the hotspot conditions are key for determining if the capsule ignites, the main fuel
conditions are also required in order to determine the energy produced. The burn up fraction
of a capsule describes how much of the DT fuel is actually burnt (i.e. undergoes fusion), and can
be estimated by [27]
