in a fusion of hydrogen isotopes, deuterium and tritium, D + T > He?! + n, is a ratio of the total : 3
energy that could be released in the fusion reaction, €; = 1Nepr (where N = Np + Ny is the total : ES
number of hydrogen ions with Np = Ny and epr = 17.6 MeV is the energy of the fusion products) : Ss
to the thermal energy of the hydrogen plasma, 3NTig (including electrons) at the temperature : =
Tig ~9.5 keV (corresponding to 10% of the maximum reaction rate) needed for ignition of fusion 1

reaction. This intrinsic yield for the DT fusion is about 300, which is a large number by itself but,
unfortunately, insufficient for compensating the losses related to incomplete fuel burn (typically
30%), heating and compression efficiency (typically less than 10%), energy conversion efficiency
(less than 40% for a thermal process) and the laser driver efficiency (today of a few per cent).

A fusion yield in the inertial process can be significantly increased by using the ‘hot spot’
ignition scheme. In fact, not all fuel needs to be heated to the ignition temperature, but only a
small fraction, called the hot spot, which initiates the burn in a cold fuel shell. The energy released
in the hot spot should be sufficient to compensate losses and to further increase its temperature
and to trigger a burn wave in the cold fuel. This condition provides a criterion on the hot spot areal
density and temperature similar to the Lawson criterion in magnetic fusion [2,3]. The remaining
fuel needs only to be compressed, which requires much less energy than heating. The time of
burning wave propagating into a cold fuel increases with its areal density, so one could burn up
to one-third of the fuel loaded in the target.

The hot spot ignition approach is the dominant paradigm of inertial fusion [3,4]. The
mainstream conventional scheme consists of achieving both the goals—compression of the fuel
and ignition of the hot spot—in a single process by appropriately designing the laser intensity
temporal profile and the target structure. Alternative approaches have been also proposed where