where T = T(x, y,Z,t) is the surface temperature distribution, A is the thermal conductivity of the
material (W m7! K), p is the density (kg m?), Cy is specific heat capacity (J ket K) and q (x,y,z, t)
is the heat generated function per unit volume and unit time. By solving the equation, the value
of temperature T and the temperature profile in the sample can be obtained.

The ideal expression of current in the excitation coil can be written as I(t) = Ip sin(2zft), t < th,
where Io is the current peak value, f is the operation frequency of coil which depends on the
values of equivalent capacitance and inductance in the excitation source resonant circuit and
t, is the heating time. When time is greater than t,, the current disappears. Joule heat and
thermal diffusion work together during the heating stage. This temperature rise of the sample
is determined by the excitation frequency, the heating time, the high-frequency magnetic field at
the sample surface and characteristics of the material such as electrical conductivity, magnetic
permeability, thermal diffusivity and thermal conductivity. In fact, the control loop looks for
the resonant frequency of the excitation source and the coil current is not an ideal sinusoidal
expression in the initial stage. This time has an impact on the temperature rise.

(c) Resonant frequency tracking loop

The excitation source for ECPT is actually an induction heating power supply system and the
schematic diagram of this system is illustrated in figure 2. Since electricity is rectified and filtered,
a DC voltage Ug is generated and this drives the full bridge converter. The MOSFET switch tubes
of the full bridge converter are Q1—Q4, and C; is the resonant capacitor. In order to increase the coil
current and improve the detection effect, a step-down transformer T1 is used. The coil, sample and
capacitor constitute the series resonant circuit. Due to the electromagnetic interaction between
the excitation coil and the sample, an equivalent circuit model [32] can be used to characterize