transcriptomic approaches [80]. This approach was used to explore the metabolic pathways of two
Polaribacter strains isolated in the North Sea during their growth with various models of organic
molecules like carbohydrates and polysaccharides [80]. This study showed that both Polaribacter
strains were able to degrade algal polysaccharides, while they each occupy different ecologic
niches. However, they observed that one strain was feeding on proteins and a small subset of
algal polysaccharides, while the other was able to degrade a wider range of polysaccharides,
making it a more flexible strain [80]. More recently, proteomic approaches have also been used to
explore the response of Formosa strains (Flavobacteriaceae) isolated in the North Sea to laminarin
as a model of polysaccharides [81]. The authors observed that laminarin was used as a major
source of energy, and as a signal molecule, which induced transporters and digestive enzymes
to also use other compounds released from the lysis of diatom cells. These studies confirm the
link between Flavobacteria and microalgal blooms with their capacity to degrade and use algal
DOM. It is consistent with the fact that all the bacterial strains belonging to Flavobacteria tested
in our biodegradation assay were able to grow on the pelagic microalgae C. neogracilis exudate.
However, depending on their genetic material, bacterial strains differ in their ability to degrade
DOM according to its composition. It implies the occurrence of different ecological niches in
which bacterial strains use the energy source to which they are the most adapted.

Even though the environmental relevance of isolated strains remains an important issue, our
study underlines the fact that the isolated strains from the ice camp were overall representative
of the in situ bacterial community, especially in the sea ice bottom. We showed through a
biodegradation experiment a preference for the DOM degradation from the pelagic diatom
C. neogracilis among 40 different bacterial strains isolated from ice and several depths. Indeed,
most of the strains tested (78%) were able to grow on the exudate from the pelagic diatom
C. neogracilis, and 33% were able to use the exudate from the sea ice diatom F. cylindrus. 17.5%