
On 19 June 1987, the Supreme Court of the United States handed down a decision on ‘EDWARDS
V. AGUILLARD’! This case pertained to a law entitled the ‘Balanced Treatment for Creation-
Science and Evolution-Science Act’ (Balanced Treatment Act) that had been passed by the
Louisiana State legislature. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled that
the Balanced Treatment Act was unconstitutional because it gave common footing to religious
and scientific perspectives of evolution in public schools and hence violated the Establishment
Clause of the First Amendment to the Bill of Rights. Seven of the nine Supreme Court Justices
voted to uphold the Circuit Court decision. The late Justice Antonin Scalia submitted a minority,
dissenting opinion. Scalia argued that the Balanced Treatment Act correctly defined evolution
and creationism as two competing theories for the origin of life. He further defended the Act’s
requirement ‘... that, whenever the subject of origins is covered, evolution be taught as a theory,
rather than as proven scientific fact’ (p. 14).

Scalia’s argument promotes two key misunderstandings of Darwin’s theory. First, Darwin
states explicitly that his theory is not about the origin of life. In the last chapter of the Origin
of Species, he briefly considers how far his theory can go to explain the origin of the diversity
of life, but he deliberately stops short of saying his theory addresses the origin of life itself.
Darwin describes evolution as a process that requires an ‘organism’ that can replicate itself and
can transmit some form of ‘blueprint’ for development from one generation to the next. This can
only happen after some form of life has arisen. He never considered how life began.

Second, there is a popular misunderstanding, even among those as well educated as supreme
court justices and many scientists, of the meaning of the word ‘theory’. My goal is not to wade
into the complexity of a philosophy of science definition of ‘theory’, but rather to take on the