
Case 2 improved upon the spatial and temporal resolution bathymetry and flow data relative
to Case 1. This was achieved using a validated 2D hydrodynamic model. In Cases 1 and 2,
array blockage was excluded. This highlighted that Case 1 overestimated the resource in the
East Race where the greatest spatial variations in bathymetry and flow speeds were observed.
The improved flow characterization in Case 2 led to a 19% reduction in estimated annual energy
yield of the array. Case 3 provided further enhancement through the consideration of array-scale
blockage, modelled within the hydrodynamic model. Blockage caused reductions in flow speeds
of up to 2.5ms-? at the sub-array locations, reducing the estimated array annual energy yield
by 61% from Case 2. Case 4 updated the power coefficient of the devices from 0.3 to 0.41, based
on recent reported data from full-scale operational turbines in industry [32]. This increased the
estimated annual energy yield obtained in Case 3 by 37%, to 3.18 TWh. Finally, Case 5 reduced the
array capacity of the array to account for the fact that the devices rated speeds, and hence rated
power, were too high for the flow speeds incident on the devices. While this has no impact on the
estimated energy yield of the array, it increases the capacity factor by 63%, from 11% to 18%.


Additional array performance improvements have also been identified. The adoption of higher
resolution bathymetry data illustrates that there is potential for the rotor diameter of most devices
to be increased, while keeping conservative levels of clearance above and below the rotors. This
could increase the total swept area of the array by up to 32%. In some cases, the swept area
of individual devices have the potential to be increased by over 140%. For an isolated device,
this increase in swept area would result in a similar increase in energy yield. Further work is
needed to establish how the added drag from swept area increases impacts on the surrounding
flow field, and the resulting energy yield. The dependency of energy yield on sub-array location