satellite image of the neutral cloud at the eruption of Raikoke (2019) (figure 2). Improving our
understanding of the controls on the height and dynamics of these intrusions is valuable for the
assessment of the hazards of volcanic ash, particularly for air-traffic safety. In this context, it is
important to note that there are in fact several very detailed numerical models of the eruption
column and umbrella cloud which have been developed to account for effects of buoyancy-driven
spreading of the umbrella cloud [16-18] and in some cases the effect of wind on the eruption
column and neutral cloud [12,13,19]. Some of these models describe the sedimentation of particles
from the flow, but there has been less focus on the impact of the change in the buoyancy and
hence height of the spreading intrusion associated with sedimentation. Even if a fraction of the
particles sediments from the flow as the neutral cloud spreads from the vertical plume, there
may be a change in the buoyancy and hence height of the intrusion, and investigation of this
process forms the focus of this work. Since the air—particle mixture at the neutral height has
the same bulk density as the surrounding air, the air in the cloud is in fact warmer than the
surrounding atmosphere [20] and so sedimentation of the particles can lead to a gradual increase
in height of the neutral cloud. With particle fall speeds in the range of 0.01-1 ms™!, and intrusion
speeds of order 10-100 ms~, the intrusion may spread a horizontal distance of order 10-1000 km
as the particles settle through a height of 1-5 km, comparable to the thickness of the intrusion.
We might therefore expect to see some change in elevation of the neutral cloud resulting from



Figure 2. Eruption clouds from (a) Mt Shiveluch, Kamchatka, 2007 (courtesy Demyanchuk, Yuri); (b) Raikoke, Kuril Islands, 2019
(Joshua Stevens, NASA Earth Observatory); and (c) Mt Redoubt, Alaska, 1991. The images show that the development of the
laterally spreading neutral cloud has an asymmetric shape, as the cloud seems to have a relatively flat upper surface and an
upward sloping lower surface. We propose this is related to the sedimentation of particles, which descend about the rising