non-negligible overhead.

In this publication, we extend the above compressible LBM by deriving exponential
(numerical) discrete equilibria designed to recover an arbitrary number of the Maxwellian
moments, with particular emphasis on the 13-moment approach. This follows an idea proposed
in the context of DVMs by Le Tallec & Perlat in 1997 [26], and which was implemented 20 years
later within an LBM collision-streaming scheme in the PhD manuscript of Frapolli [43]. With
13 constraints, the equilibrium distribution matches the moments of the Maxwell—Boltzmann
distribution not only for the conserved moments, as does the 5-moment approach, but also for
higher-order, non-conserved moments. In this manner, the behaviour of the macroscopic flow
variables, which are related to the moments of the particle populations, can be more adequately
represented using as few as 39 discrete velocities in 3D, by putting more effort into the equilibrium
instead of the lattice. This is explained by the fact that the desired moments of the distribution are
strictly enforced with the help of a numerical solver. Hence, they no longer depend on the choice
of a sophisticated discrete velocity stencil, or at least, the dependency is highly reduced.

Here, the choice of a D3Q39 velocity discretization is motivated by recent improvements
obtained with hybrid LBMs based on the same lattice, and which successfully simulated flows
around realistic geometries in the high-subsonic, transonic and supersonic regimes with a wall-
clock time that competes with Navier-Stokes—Fourier solvers [22,44,45]. Thanks to this reduced
number of discrete velocities, the memory requirements are reduced by an order of magnitude,
and the computational cost is diminished correspondingly as compared to the D3Q343
5-constraint method. Nevertheless, the D3Q39 is only one possibility among many available
lattices. For example, D3Q19-LBMs are particularly suited for HPC architectures [46], and even
in their isothermal form, they are serious alternatives to Navier-Stokes—Fourier solvers in the