imposed at the (right) outlet. The no-slip boundary condition is imposed on the aerofoil using the
half-way bounce-back methodology [4].

As a first insight on the physical phenomena related to this numerical validation, the local
Mach number and density fields are plotted in figure 7. They highlight the main features of the
flow: (1) primary strong bow shock upward the leading edge, (2) secondary weak shock close to
the trailing edge, and (3) vortex shedding downward the aerofoil. This qualitatively confirms
the good behaviour recovered thanks to the new equilibrium (2.13), as compared to results
published in [43,88]. To investigate the numerical properties of the present approach, the local
Knudsen number e¢, as well as the number of Newton-Raphson iterations are plotted in figure 8.
Interestingly, the kinetic sensor € is only activated close to the aforementioned features, which
allows us to properly classify them in terms of departure from the equilibrium. This observation
serves as a justification for the fact that the adaptive BGK operator leads to stable simulations
through a local increase of the kinematic viscosity adapted to the flow features: high increase for
both strong and weak shocks, moderate close to the aerofoil, low in its wake, none in the rest of the
domain. This indicates that one of the possible outcomes of such a sensor would be a better control
over areas of the simulation domain where shock-capturing techniques, and/or subgrid scale
models should be activated. In addition, it is confirmed that the number of Newton—Raphson
solver iterations required to impose the correct 13 moments is relatively low. In this example, it
is four at most, less than two in average, and zero over a wide area, as the Lagrange multipliers
inherited from the previous time step remain satisfying. It is also interesting to point out that the
number of iterations follows the main flow features. Surprisingly, the highest number of iterations
is not observed in the region where the highest departure from equilibrium is reported (bow

