of theorizing from unproved facts; he would always say, ‘But have you proved your facts?”
and then would often show them that this had not been done. He could not bear ‘scientific
romancing,’ as he called it.

1We presume that Millais had the rarer outer bow wrong, but we cannot find definite confirmation of this. The Pre-Raphaelite
movement of which Millais formed a part was deeply interested in weaving science into their art ‘How did the group harness
empirical methods to create its work? Take arguably the most famous Pre-Raphaelite painting, Millais’s Ophelia (1851-25).
At first glance, this seems a sentimental portrayal of the tragic suicide of the character in William Shakespeare’s Hamlet.
However, every plant depicted, from purple loosestrife to wild roses, is the product of more than three months of painstaking
observation as Millais worked on the banks of the Hogsmill River in Surrey. Other artists had painted in the open air before,
but never in such meticulously wrought detail.’ [7]. Ruskin, champion of the Pre Raphaelites, wrote in 1884 that, although the
brotherhood’s work might ‘seem to be the reaction of a desperate fancy. . .against the incisive scepticism of recent science’,
they were in fact ‘a part of that science itself’ [8].


Figure 1. John Everett Millais, The Blind Girl, 1856, after its correction, and a double rainbow photographed by one of the
authors (JC). Millais corrected the colour sequence on Stokes’ prompting, but did not really bring out the difference in intensity
between the primary and secondary bows, which is of order 1:0.43 [3], or the greater width of the secondary bow. Compare John
Constable's London, from Hampstead Heath in a Storm; with Double Rainbow Seen beneath Purple Masses of Cloud of 1831, which
shows correctly these aspects [4]. It is worth noting that Keats’ poem Lamia, which complains of ‘cold philosophy’ that would
‘unweave a rainbow’ was written in 1819 and published in 1820 [5] and so is also celebrating its bicentenary. Stokes developed
asymptotics to make rigorous Airy’s mathematical treatment of rainbow optics [6]. (Online version in colour.)

John Ruskin was born in February 1819, just a few months before Stokes. He graduated in
classics and maths from Oxford. Although his career was to be in art and literature, he was