is A@ = 60째 while the model has the incorrect 120째 fibre rotation and in the other the true fibre
rotation is A@ =120째 and the model in the LETKF has a fibre rotation of 60째. In other words,
in the base case this is the same fibre rotation as in the truth from which the observations are
sampled, whereas in the other cases, the observations come from truth simulations using total
fibre rotations that are different than the model used in the LEKTF.

In all three cases, the error is immediately reduced to around 0.1 owing to the incorporation
of observations (figure 7). The model-error and no-model-error cases have similar error for
approximately the first 1000ms. After around 1000 ms, the case with no model error continues
to reduce error, while error increases when the LETKF uses incorrect fibre rotation in the model
for the ensemble forecast. Both cases with fibre rotation error exhibit similar error patterns.

The fact that the state is initially well approximated even with the model error indicates that
data assimilation has the potential to correct for model error. One potential reason for the eventual
divergence could be that because each ensemble member uses the same incorrect model, the
model error is not represented in the spread and thus the system develops too much confidence in
the forecasts. The global root mean squared spread in the model-error case continues to decrease
over time, even as the error begins to increase after 1000 ms, as shown in figure 8.

The ensemble spread is supposed to quantify the uncertainty in the state estimate, but because
the same model is used to propagate each ensemble member, the background ensemble is
mostly quantifying dynamic uncertainty in the system and not any model-driven uncertainty.
Soon after the start of the assimilation, the uncertainty and the error near the epicardial and
endocardial surfaces are low because the initial large uncertainty allows the LETKF to fit its
state estimate closely to the data available at the surfaces; see top row of figure 9. Over time,