liquids and gases in elastic—inelastic deformable solid materials. Three considerations underpin
the development. (1) Since such diffusion causes expansion/contraction of the solid matrix, the
processes are coupled. (2) Since the diffusion generally takes place through a hierarchical network
of channels, their fractal geometry has to be admitted in both the diffusion processes and the
mechanics. (3) Since the network is generally anisotropic, an appropriate fractal geometry with
spatial anisotropy has to be involved. The theoretical strategy in this article follows the approach
to continuum-type mechanics of heterogeneous porous media of fractal type.

The basic ideas, extending the dimensional regularization concepts and proceeding in the
vein of a field theory, hark back to the pioneering work by Tarasov [1,2], who developed
continuum-type equations of fractal porous media, and extended them to a range of problems
in electrodynamics, fluid mechanics, heat transfer, wave motion, etc. [3]. The power of this
approach stems from the fact that much of the framework of continuum mechanics/physics
may be generalized and partial differential equations (with derivatives of integer order) may
still be employed. While the original formulation was based on the Riesz measure and restricted
to isotropic and fluid-like media, the present authors introduced a framework of product
measure [4-7], grasping the anisotropy of fractal geometry (i.e. different fractal dimensions in
different directions) generally in solid materials. This modelling strategy has been classified as
the ‘fractional-integral approach’ in the comprehensive review article [3]; note that four other
approaches to fractal media—each having its pros and cons—are also possible, but the fractional-
integral one has already been established in a range of mechanics and physics problems.
These include wave equations in several settings (one-dimensional and three-dimensional
elastodynamics and a fractal Timoshenko beam) [8,9], extremum and variational principles [10],
equations of turbulence in fractal media [11], electromagnetism [7] and fractal planetary rings [12].
In all the cases, the derived equations for fractal media depend explicitly on fractal dimensions