[1-4].

Field-induced particle structuring in liquid and elastic matrices and its effect on the
materials’ field response have been studied in the past and are still under intensive
theoretical and experimental investigations [1,2,4]. The well-known microscopic approaches of
the rheological behaviour of magnetic suspensions are based on the concept of either chain-
like or dense column-like aggregates formed by the particles [1,5,6]. The size and shape
of these aggregates are determined by the combination of the forces of magnetic attraction
between the particles and viscous forces in the carrier liquid destroying the aggregates.
Theories, based on these concepts, lead to different dependencies of the macroscopic stress
on the global rate of the composite deformation and can provide realistic prediction of
the material behaviour. However, the chain model is rather a very simplified approach
suitable for very diluted systems. In fact, the morphology of particle structures depends
on various physical parameters and may differ significantly from simple chains. Optical
microstructural observations have shown that particles in magnetorheological suspensions
build thick columnar aggregates and more complicated structures oriented in the direction of
the applied field [2]. Moreover, recently it was experimentally shown, using a microchannel
filled with a low concentrated magnetic fluid, that geometrical parameters of the particle
structures depend not only on the strength but on the duration of the applied magnetic field
as well [7]. With increasing duration and strength, the size of the structures increases. This
generally corresponds with results of the known theoretical analysis and computer simulations
[8-10] as well as observations performed for very diluted magnetorheological fluids [11].
In terms of particle structuring dynamics in magnetorheological fluids, two processes are
distinguished: the initial formation of thin chains after the field was applied and further
formation of thicker aggregates [8]. The duration of the second process reaches a couple