Figure 11. three-dimensional visualization (selected fragments) of the short chains: (a) a composite with < 0.13 vol.%
nickel microparticles patterned at H = 10 kA m™! (figure 10); (6) a composite with ~0.15 vol.% ASC300 iron microparticles =
(figure 10c) patterned at H = 10 kA m~'. Condition t,/t > 1is fulfilled. Without scale. (Online version in colour.) ig

polymerization of the matrix. The increase of initial viscosity of the suspension or reduction of [a
particle concentration is not so effective and, therefore, the best solution may be to use relatively [3
low fields at t,/t~1 to obtain short chains. D8
Figure 9 demonstrates selected optical images of short chains in such composites. In :8
figure 10 reconstructed three-dimensional CT-images of non-patterned and patterned at 1a
10kA m7! specimens are shown. In addition, the figure 11 provides selected three-dimensional
visualizations of composites with short chains. In addition to short chains, there are also
individual particles in the sample volume. The influence of the magnetic field was insufficient
to involve all the particles in the process of structuring, despite the fact that condition fp/f > 1 is
definitely fulfilled. In fact, time #, was about 12h during the manufacture of the particular sample
with nickel microparticles patterned at H=10kA m7! and represented in figures 10c and 11a.

(c) Composites with thin long chain aggregates

Composites with long chains are samples in which the chain aggregates trend to overlap the
specimen volume from one side to the other. Long aggregates consist of both thin single chains
and several chains joined together, but their thickness does not significantly exceed the particle
size. There are also a number of shorter aggregates similar to chains in the samples presented
in §4b. To obtain composites with such a microstructure, it is necessary to use a weak and
moderate magnetic field (approx. 10-100 kA m7!) and ensure that the condition t,/t> 1 is met.
The higher the particle concentration (within limits considered up to 2 vol.%), the denser the chain