structure [34], but the shear stress and the heat flux are negligibly small. This is due to the fact
that the relaxation time of the dynamic pressure is much larger than the other relaxation times
of the shear stress and of the heat flux in a polyatomic gas. In the preliminary works in RET of
dense gases [31,35,36], the case where all the dissipative fluxes except for the dynamic pressure
are negligible was studied in detail in order to highlight the importance of the dynamic pressure.
This is the RET theory of dense gases with six fields (ETP) that takes into account one relaxation
process with the assumption that molecular rotation and vibration can be treated as a unit. And,
as in the RET theory of rarefied gases, it was shown that the constitutive equations are completely
determined by the thermal and caloric equations of state. The system is the simplest one after the
Euler system of a perfect gas.

It is evident, however, that such an RET theory with only one relaxation process has limitations
to its applicability. In fact, we have many experimental data on sound waves [4,5,37] showing
that the relaxation time of the rotational mode and that of the vibrational mode are quite
different to each other. Therefore, in a case with a high temperature where both rotational and
vibrational modes exist, more than one molecular relaxation process should be taken into account
to have a more realistic RET theory. The purpose of the present paper is to construct such a
realistic RET model of dense gases, and thereby to extend the applicability range of the theory
in the previous papers [31,35,36,38]. This new theory includes the previous RET theory of dense
gases with six fields [31] as a particular case, and it also includes the RET theory of rarefied
polyatomic gases with seven fields [24] in a natural way as a special case in the rarefied-gas
limit.

Organization of the paper is as follows: In ยง2, an RET model of dense gases with seven fields is
constructed step by step, and its characteristic features are discussed. In ยง3, explicit expressions of