bulk of the gas. Secondly, we shall use this result to derive a ‘thermal uncertainty relation’
connecting minimal irreversible energy requirements of a process with the time it takes to perform
the process, demonstrating that running processes faster comes with a penalty—an increased
minimal irreversible energy cost. For that reason, our discussion will focus only on mechanical-
interface-induced irreversibility, while, at the same time, we will neglect friction or finite heat
transfer between heat bath(s) and working medium. This will, on one hand simplify our technical
discussion but at the same time it will provide us sufficiently versatile playground that will allow
us to address some of the salient features that are key for understanding irreversible behaviour of
generic heat engines.

Because of its simplicity, the ideal gas represents a quintessential system of reversible
thermodynamics. It may thus come as a surprise that within the ideal gas paradigm one can
quite easily attack issues related to irreversible thermodynamics. In fact, the only thing that is
required in this context is to understand the ‘mechanical interface’, namely the dynamics of the
piston that controls the volume of the ideal gas confined in a cylindrical vessel as it moves with
some phenomenologically relevant non-zero speed. We consider a cylindrical container merely
for a technical convenience and results obtained are by no means restricted to this particular
shape. For modelling, the mechanical interface one has to consider the statistics of elastic
collisions between gas particles and piston, leading to relations between macro observables.
We should stress that apart from the usual macro variables such as N (particle number), P
(pressure), V (volume) and T (temperature of the working medium), we also have to consider
other macro variables such as the rate of the change of the volume V. Here, the volume, V = AL,
is the product of A, the cross-section area of the cylinder confining the gas, with L, the axial
cylinder dimension (figure 1). Note that by considering V as an additional thermodynamic
state variable brings about an explicit violation of the concept of local equilibrium. The latter