redox disequilibria needed for metabolism. As will be discussed here, although other planets
and moons in the solar system do not appear to undergo solid-state convection that is key to
ophiolite obduction on Earth, slower serpentinization may have persisted in other planets after
they lost accretional and tidal heat, due to percolation of fluids into microfractures over long
timescales [12].

The study of other planets offers new settings for investigating how serpentinization might
occur. Mars, Europa and other relatively water-rich and rocky worlds differ from Earth in
their compositions and oxidation states; in their thermal states and histories; and in their rock
mechanics, owing to different gravity and pressure gradients. Studying serpentinization on
these other worlds may yield insights into the limits and nature of serpentinization on Earth.
This planetary perspective on Earth’s serpentinization echoes the way in which the field of
astrobiology seeks to use planetary exploration to test hypotheses for life’s origin. In fact, the
two investigations are connected.

Some hypotheses for life’s origin invoke serpentinization as providing the template for
early metabolism that was the fundamental drive for life, with gene encoding and replication
evolving subsequently or perhaps contemporaneously [13-16]. However, it should be noted
that many seemingly viable and sometimes contradictory hypotheses for life’s origin are being
investigated [17], and problems with the ‘metabolism first’ hypothesis have been suggested.
For example, polymerization of nucleic acids appears to require dehydration reactions, which
have not been demonstrated under subaqueous hydrothermal vent conditions (but do occur in
subaerial hydrothermal fields on Earth) [18]. Experiments have demonstrated that amino acids
can form under redox and pH gradients in iron oxyhydroxide mineral systems [19,20], but this is
not yet proof that nucleic acids can form in the vicinity of hydrothermal edifices. Provocative