where H is the Hilbert space of the system, 6 =1/kT is the inverse of the temperature times
Boltzmann’s constant and H is the Hamiltonian operator of the system whose eigenvalues are the
allowed energies E. The sum over energies is, in general, both a sum over the discrete spectrum
and an integral over the continuous part of the energy spectrum and d(E) is the number of states
of energy E or density of states if we are considering the continuous part of the spectrum. If
d(E) ~ e= with a > 0 at large energies E, then there is a limiting temperature since when f <a
the partition function diverges. This kind of growth in the density of states with energy does not
occur in typical quantum systems, but it does appear in string theory and in the physics of black
holes, and, as I will explain, is connected to the work of Hardy-Ramanujan on the growth of the
number of partitions of integers p(n).

The fundamental reason why Ramanujan’s work has had a significant impact on physics is
due to the fact that modular forms play a central role in string theory and two-dimensional CFT.
The basic reason for this is the following. A closed string at a fixed time is an S! embedded
into some ambient space. Finite temperature in quantum systems can be described in a path
integral formalism in terms of a periodic Euclidean time tg = —it with tz ~ tg + B. We are, thus,
led to consider path integrals over a two-dimensional Euclidean space with topology S! x S! or,
more generally, since the theory is conformally invariant, we have path integrals that depend
on the conformal equivalence class of a two-torus or elliptic curve E,; labelled by t in the upper
half-plane and invariant under the action of the modular group PSL(2,Z) which acts as global
diffeomorphisms of the two-torus.

1] thank John Keating for pointing out work on the energy levels of heavy nuclei which provided an early application of the
Hardy-Ramanujan asymptotic formula for p(n) to a physical system. See [3/4] for further details.
