theory and string theory. However, the formulation of vortex dynamics explicitly in the language
of connections seems to be a novel approach. It has the advantage of clarifying the structure of
the theory, and it may lead to new result in the future.

A second new feature of the paper is that we are careful of treating Riemann surfaces of
arbitrary genus, keeping full respect for the Kelvin Law of conservation of circulations. This law
enters the vortex dynamics in a way which cannot be ignored. For example, in a Hamiltonian
description of the dynamics, the Hamiltonian function, which represents the renormalized energy,
consists of two major parts. The first part is the usual quadratic form described by a matrix which
has Green and Robin functions as its entries. The second part is a quadratic form which gives the
energy of circulating flows beyond those which are already present in the Green function. The
problem is that there is a non-trivial interaction between the two parts of the Hamiltonian, due to
the fact that the electrostatic-type Green function we are working with does not respect the Kelvin
Law. As the poles (vortices) move the global circulations implicit in the Green function change,
and that has to be compensated by the second term in the Hamiltonian.

One could imagine replacing the electrostatic Green function by a hydrodynamic Green
function, like in the multiply connected planar case. Effectively, this is actually what we do, in
a certain sense, but in the Riemann surface case this function will not be single-valued (if genus
is strictly positive). In the same vein, our stream functions will generally not be single-valued.

The main specific results in the paper are theorems 7.1 and 9.1. The first of these describes the
dynamics for a system of point vortices in terms of the difference between two affine connections,
one coming from the metric (then being the same as the classical Levi-Civita connection) and
the other being a connection canonically derived from the Robin function. This difference is a