the fluid on either side of the ‘indefinitely’ thin sheet, and was not bothered by the issue of SS
discontinuity in velocity between contiguous vortices within the sheet, Maxwell insisted on : S
continuity. Whereas Helmholtz’s aim was to understand real fluids ultimately composed of {=
particles acting at a distance, Maxwell was interested in vortex-like processes in space; both his : a
beliefs about space and known observations of electricity and magnetism suggested continuity. : =

Maxwell emphasized the role of his model at the outset of the paper: ‘I propose now to examine : =
magnetic phenomena from a mechanical point of view, and to determine what tensions in, or 13
motions of, a medium are capable of producing the mechanical phenomena observed. If, by the : =
same hypothesis, we can connect the phenomena of magnetic attraction with electromagnetic DR
phenomena and with those of induced currents, we shall have found a theory which, if not true, : o
can only be proved to be erroneous by experiments which will greatly enlarge our knowledge of 3
this part of physics’ [12, p. 162]. Maxwell’s usage of ‘hypothesis’ here reflects the fact that he was :3
doing something methodologically new and going beyond his contemporaries’ understanding of [eS

‘model’ [46]. The hypothesis could suggest experiments for testing. Provided the theory correctly
described known observations, its hypothetical basis could not be challenged except by extending
the realm of observation. Being purely a heuristic model, Maxwell did not concern himself with
the questions of permanence and stability of vortices that later teased Kelvin and Helmholtz, and
that his consideration of strain patterns might have exacerbated. Nor was he interested at this
point in developing the mathematics of vortices as such; the paper came to no new conclusions
about vortices. He subsequently discarded the model, which had served its purpose in leading
him to a mathematical theory of the electromagnetic field [15]. Nevertheless, his use of the analogy
had extended the domain of application of vortex mathematics to a vitally important new area of
physics and boosted the confidence of British physicists in the power of hydrodynamical models.