principles applicable to the physical system under study, and define a system as contextual
whenever any model of that system would require stronger direct influences than allowed by
the assumed theory. This is the standard logic with Bell scenarios, where the underlying theory
is special relativity and the constraint is that signalling between spacelike-separated observers
must be absent. The present approach can also accommodate more nuanced constraints, including
limits on the magnitude of direct influence or signalling even when it is allowed to be non-zero.
A further generalization of the analysis presented here would be to consider model architectures
other than the canonical and partitioned ones. For example, rather than allowing direct influence
of context on each observable, C € Pa(Fj), or signalling between observers, Cx € Pa(Fy), one could
consider models with direct influence between observables, Fq € Pa(F,’), to see what additional
insight they might provide into the mathematical nature of contextuality.

As a fourth advantage, the model-based approach is naturally suited to the fact that
contextuality analysis of an empirical measurement system is analysis of a finite dataset. As
with any situation of hypothesis testing based on sample data, it requires statistical inference,
in this case inference of whether the data could have been generated by a model from some
class. As noted in §2, the data form a set M= (Mi! qe Q,cEC,q<c,1<i<ne}, with each
M“ a sample from an unknown distribution j1;. The set of possibilities for {u¢:c€C} is a
product of (im, —1)-simplices, where mi, = |{q:q~<c}| is the number of observables measured
in context c. The subset of possibilities consistent with a context-free model (or equivalently
a partitioned model with no signalling) is defined by a set of linear inequalities and hence is
a polytope within that space. Likewise, the subset of possibilities consistent with an aligned
model (canonical or partitioned) is defined by a different polytope, containing the first. Given a
dataset M, the questions of contextuality, M-contextuality and CbD-contextuality are questions
of whether M is a sample from a set of true distributions lying in the appropriate polytope,