posterior capture efficiencies) for each cell (x-axis) and gene (y-axis). Cells from different clusters are separated by solid yellow
lines, and within each cluster, the dashed yellow line separates HOM and HET. Genes above the red horizontal line are identified
as differentially expressed across the clusters. (b) Visualization of the clustering estimate in the two-dimensional space obtained
through t-distributed stochastic neighbour embedding (t-SNE [139]) of the high-dimensional data. (c) Uncertainty in clustering
characterized by the posterior similarity matrix. (Online version in colour.)

properties and developments have led to the huge growth and adoption of BNP mixtures,
especially DP mixtures, for a variety of applications in statistics and machine learning in the
twenty-first century.

However, this enthusiasm was dampened by the negative results of Miller & Harrison
[145,146] that provided a simple example in which the posterior on the number of non-empty
components in DP mixtures is inconsistent when true number is finite. In fact, the posterior
is demonstrated to be severely inconsistent, as the posterior probability that the number of
non-empty components equals the truth asymptotically tends to zero. This is in contrast to
overfitted mixtures, which asymptotically prune extra components [95,118], and MFM which
yield consistent estimates for the number of components [147,148]. While overfitted mixtures can
be viewed as truncated approximations to DP mixtures, this seemingly contradictory result can
be explained by noting that BNP mixtures are misspecified when the true number of components.
is finite, and in this case, the true density lies at the boundary of the prior support [147]. Indeed,
it is well-known that DP mixtures can introduce many small extra clusters. To overcome this,
Guha et al. [147] develop a post-processing procedure to consistently estimate the true number
of components by suitably truncating components with small weights and merging similar
components. Instead, consistency can also be achieved by adapting the concentration parameter
a of the DP to be sample-size dependent or via a suitable hyperprior, which is in fact standard