In this paper, we considered the static loading of a mode III crack at the interface of two elastic
materials, with a process zone modelled by relations (2.3). The original problem, given in terms
of equation (2.2) and boundary conditions (2.4)-(2.6), was transformed to a matrix Wiener-Hopf
equation (2.14). The main difficulty in solving this equation was the presence of exponential
factors inside matrix M;.

It has been demonstrated that an iterative approach, of the kind first proposed in [38], is
highly effective at resolving this Wiener-Hopf equation, thereby both solving the initial problem
and determining important fracture mechanics parameters for the system. Namely, the stress
intensity factor, Ky, at the crack tip and the critical opening, u), at the opposite end of the process
zone. A thorough analysis of the numerical approach used showed the high level of stability
and accuracy, alongside the rapid rate of convergence, for the entire solution. Of particular note
was the fact that the values of both Ky and u; stabilize after only a small number of iterations,
although the required number of iterations is higher for smaller lengths of the process zone L.

The fact that the method outlined here is more efficient for larger L is not unexpected, as the
initial condition (3.8) of the iterative process corresponds to the case L > oo. As such, although
the iterative method does converge for all positive L > 0, it is clear from the presented results that
both the solution accuracy and convergence rate improve with the growth of L. There are however
solutions to this issue. The computational performance, in this case, could be greatly increased
through a rescaling of the x-axis, although this would introduce an additional challenge in the
manipulation of the right-hand side of (2.14). Alternatively, for small L there exists an alternative
asymptotic method for the matrix factorization, which was presented in [35].

In addition, it was demonstrated that the relationship between critical values of the crack