for the 250-year return period wave loading in 2017 and 2067. This is a 20% increase over the
50-year period, and considerably larger than the fraction of a millimetre displacement measured
on the Eddystone [1]. Vertical displacements were of the order of about one-third the horizontal
displacements, but still not insignificant. The horizontal displacement of the helideck with respect
to the tower was 0.093 and 0.115 m for the 1: 250 year extreme wave for 2017 and 2067 conditions.
These were associated with high tensile reaction forces in the gallery posts of 223.5 and 250.7 KN,
respectively, large enough to damage bolts at the base of the helideck and the encastrated bars.

Finally, strain associated with these tensile stresses, although showing a significant increase from :3
2017 to 2067 conditions, is still only 12% of the assumed plastic strain capacity. : =
Trinity House depends on these lighthouse helidecks for the same reason they were :R
constructed in the first place: to enable rapid deployment when equipment breaks, now that : o
the stations are unmanned. The situation is now exacerbated by the fact that boat skills and 3
knowledge of landing people on the lighthouse has been lost since helidecks have been in :3
operation. The identification of structural elements most vulnerable to high stress/strain arising : Ss
~]

from the structural modelling is important as it will inform Trinity House’s visual inspection
surveys. This will provide operational confidence for the lighthouse authorities into the future.
Finally, this comprehensive investigation has demonstrated techniques that can be applied to
other coastal and offshore structures. For example, the historic masonry seawall and breakwaters
that are common around European coastlines may be modelled and monitored in similar ways to
assess their condition under wave loading. Also, more contemporary structures, such as gravity-
based foundations for offshore wind turbines, share similarities in their physical configurations
[61] and hence lend themselves to wave modelling techniques developed in the STORMLAMP