characterizing surface quality. The sensitivity has a special importance in the case of ice, because
of the significant roles that ice plays in many environmental processes. Surface and interfacial
melting of ice are involved in ozone chemistry, thunderstorm electrification, scavenging of
impurities by snow, the sequestering of ancient atmospheres in ice cores, the flow of glaciers
and low-temperature habitability [1,3,4,7]. As a consequence of its environmental importance
the premelting of ice has been examined in many laboratory studies. There are a variety of
mechanisms, involving intermolecular or electrostatic forces, that underlie premelting. However,
the most commonly understood effect in the rubric of the wide range of researchers who study
porous media is associated with interfacial curvature, discussed in the following paragraph.
Within a tortuous medium (such as a soil) containing water, scientists have long known that
capillarity underlies the distribution of liquid [8], whereas the underlying physics of this catch-
all phrase involves a complex confluence of interfacial curvature and long-range intermolecular
forces [9]. An emphasis of relevance to this meeting is the fact that a ‘sub-freezing’ water-filled
porous media is a multiphase system with a rich fluid mechanics tied uniquely to interfacial
thermodynamics [4].

Clearly, in a confined medium a solid—liquid phase boundary may be curved, in which case, as
originally explained by William Thomson, the material will melt at a lower temperature than the
bulk substance, due to the combination of surface curvature and surface energy [1]. This shift, now
referred to as the Gibbs-Thomson Effect, has been studied with a variety of substances dispersed
on inert substrates or confined in porous media. The simplest expression for this Gibbs-Thomson
shift of the actual temperature T relative to the bulk melting temperature T;, is described for a
system with a single interfacial free energy between the liquid and solid, y,), that is independent
of crystallographic orientation. If the interfacial curvature is given by K then
