from grain-grain accretion and the second proposes gravitational collapse of the disc—treated as
either a one- or two-component (solid and gas) fluid—on length scales much larger than grain
scale processes [52]. There is a competing model that argues for a concurrent collapse of both
the star and the planets [53]. In all models, understanding the mechanism of particle—particle
agglomeration is important and recently such a mechanism, which involves extensions of the
theory of premelting, has been developed [10] and is outlined presently.

The aggregation of snow or dust on a floor is facilitated by weak interparticle collisional speeds
and attractive forces such as van der Waals interactions. The crucial difference between snow and
dust is the role of phase change. Snow crystals will fuse together (sinter) and then densify through
annealing or coarsening driven by the tendency to reduce surface energy [54]. These processes are
driven by either surface or volume diffusion or the transport of mobile surface films [1]. Indeed,
they underlie the fact snow drifts soon form a crust on their surfaces or that one can form a solid
metal object beginning with a metal powder [55]. Therefore, the agglomeration and densification
of matter is facilitated by time and very low collisional speeds where weak attractive interactions
dominate. When we gently toss a snowball against the wall it will bounce, falling to the floor and
shattering. However, at higher speeds a non-trivial fraction of the snow will stick to the wall. The
theory of collisional fusion considers the situation in which the wall is made of ice, and an ice
ball is thrown at it some tens of ms~!. Upon contact, the interfacial pressure rises dramatically
and some fraction of the collisional energy acts to momentary liquify a thin region shared by
the two surfaces. In a solar nebula, the ambient temperatures are sufficiently low that any liquid
will rapidly freeze thereby fusing the particles so long as their stored elasticity is not so large
that rebound occurs first. The scenario is as follows: (a) At low collisional speeds there is fusion
by surface forces and annealing of molecules and small particles. (b) At higher speeds stored
