the observations in other MD simulations using different molecular models [17,18,33,35,55,115—
119]. The formation of an amorphous phase has also been reported in an experimental study of gas
hydrates [120]. A common insight from the aforementioned studies is the sequential appearance
of order during the transition from liquid-like to solid-like behaviour. The solution phase does not
immediately adopt cage structures and arrangements characteristic to the thermodynamically
preferred gas hydrate crystal phase. While historically there was an emphasis on considering
particular subsets of cages encompassing both those of the preferred crystal phase and perhaps
a few others (e.g. the 5126n_41510gm cages where n=O, 2, 3, 4 and m=2, 3, 4), it is becoming
increasingly clear that there is a plethora of transient cages from which more common and more
stable cages arise as hydrate nucleation proceeds, again strongly indicating ordering in stages. For
example, early on in the nucleation process, irregular and defective cages are prominent structural
features, and appear in interfacial regions between the solution phase and the hydrate nucleus
[119]. An ordering-in-stages perspective on gas hydrate nucleation is also supported by the fact
that nascent ordering according to water-based molecular-level order parameters apparently
precedes the appearance of cages, suggesting that lower level ordering (e.g. at the molecular
level) is needed before larger and more elaborate ordered structures can appear [25]. Moreover,
distributions of local order parameters (e.g. Sg and MSD) change and narrow continuously
throughout the nucleation process. Order-in-stages phenomenology can thus be observed at a
variety of length scales, and appears to be a progressive process in gas hydrate nucleation.

In the case of gas hydrate nucleation, the ordering in stages of the solution phase (reduction
in system entropy) coincides with decreasing system potential energies. Recently, we have shown
that this characteristic feature along with broader phenomenology of gas hydrate nucleation
indicates that gas hydrate nucleation involves rugged, funnel-shaped potential energy landscapes
(e.g. figure 1c) akin to those associated with protein folding [25]. An important distinction