components in DP mixtures is inconsistent when true number is finite. In fact, the posterior
is demonstrated to be severely inconsistent, as the posterior probability that the number of
non-empty components equals the truth asymptotically tends to zero. This is in contrast to
overfitted mixtures, which asymptotically prune extra components [95,118], and MFM which
yield consistent estimates for the number of components [147,148]. While overfitted mixtures can
be viewed as truncated approximations to DP mixtures, this seemingly contradictory result can
be explained by noting that BNP mixtures are misspecified when the true number of components.
is finite, and in this case, the true density lies at the boundary of the prior support [147]. Indeed,
it is well-known that DP mixtures can introduce many small extra clusters. To overcome this,
Guha et al. [147] develop a post-processing procedure to consistently estimate the true number
of components by suitably truncating components with small weights and merging similar
components. Instead, consistency can also be achieved by adapting the concentration parameter
a of the DP to be sample-size dependent or via a suitable hyperprior, which is in fact standard
in practice [149,150]. Furthermore, Frithwirth-Schnatter & Malsiner-Walli [151] illustrate that the
choice of the hyperprior on the weights is far more influential on the number of clusters than
whether an overfitted or DP mixture is considered.


In practice, we can expect that mixture models are misspecified in some way; either in the
kernel or mixing measure, or both. Optimal asymptotic results of Bayesian mixtures for density
estimation still hold (in the sense of convergence to the KL projection of the true density into the
prior’s support) [152,153]. However, Guha et al. [147] show that mild misspecification leads to
very slow contraction rates of the mixing measure (with respect to its KL projection) and that the
choice of the kernel is especially important; moreover, BNP mixtures are better suited to adapt
to complex forms of the density in the misspecified setting. Cai et al. [154] also show that for