The SM is one of the simplest approach to demonstrate the phenomenon of bistability while
excluding the dynamic bifurcation effect. Based on the results of experimental chatter tests
(figure 3c), the workpiece is prepared such that steps are machined onto it in increasing and then
in decreasing order (figure 4b). Since the length of the workpiece is given, a trade-off must be
made between the number and the length of steps. It is important at all steps to provide enough
space (time) for the tool to reach its stationary state. Obviously, there is smaller possibility to
capture the phenomenon of bistability in the SM than in the HT due to the limited resolution of
axial depth of cut steps on the workpiece. When the measurements do not capture bistability, the
test results cannot be distinguished from supposingly linear chatter tests where instability should
arise in symmetric arrangement along the steps.

For the measurements, we also use the industrial jargon to label vibration states as ‘stable’ as
SSC and CH. In fact, all these states are related to a stable invariant object of the dynamical system
(1.4). Chatter CH state involves both the evolved threshold vibration and the onset of amplifying
vibrations originated, on the one hand, from the USC period one solution xp. The stability loss
is caused by an orbital Hopf bifurcation [13], which introduces dominant (chatter) frequency
(figure 3i) and its modulations [72]. The Hopf bifurcation in the nonlinear milling model is
subcritical and gives rise to an unstable invariant torus branch (ITB) of quasi-periodic solutions
xgp with Qz and w¢. The arising subcritical branches can be found by, for example, nonlinear
SDM [65] or path-following methods based, for example, collocation [33].

On the other hand, this unstable torus can also repel the process from the expected SSC to an
amplifying solution toward the threshold (CH) state that we hear and measure in the long term.
The threshold vibration state can be quasi-periodic or chaotic resembling the frequency content
