
In 2014, Collins et al. [81] theoretically showed that a fluorescent antenna, a device similar
to a luminescent solar concentrator [82,83], could be used in VLC to overcome the limitations for
optical systems set by the conservation of étendue [84]. Such devices could provide similar gain to
conventional optical systems, while maintaining a wide field-of-view. In 2016, the experimental
demonstration of this concept was made by two independent groups [36,85]. The principle of
these devices is illustrated in figure 8c: the incident light is absorbed in a layer of fluorescent
material, and then re-emitted as fluorescence. Most of the emitted light is trapped in the layer by
total internal reflection and propagates within the device to the edge of the antenna. Owing to the
much smaller cross-section of the edge of the device than the absorbing area, significant optical
gain can be achieved, while the field of view follows the cosine law. The experimental result
shown in figure 8d demonstrates that these devices can provide much wider field-of-view when
compared with lenses with similar optical gains (figure 8d). This is a consequence of the fact that
the angle of emitted light is independent from the angle of incident light, and the conservation of
étendue between the incident and the emitted light does not apply.

The two experimental publications [84,85] followed rather different approaches for the
implementation of the fluorescent antennas. Manousiadis et al. [36] demonstrated devices with
a slab geometry, while Peyronel et al. [85] used optical fibres to construct fluorescent antennas. In
[36], the device was fabricated by sandwiching a mixture of epoxy with a fluorescent dye between
two microscope slides. The authors demonstrated an optical gain of 12, with full width at half
maximum field of view of 120°, while the bandwidth of the devices was 40 MHz, significantly
higher than that of most commercially available LEDs designed for illumination, which typically
are in the range of 5-20 MHz [86,87], and achieved a data rate of 190 Mbps, limited by the receiver
used. In [85], the authors used a bundle of commercial fluorescent fibres aligned in a planar array.