Finally, we report on the current open questions and the possible direction of future
research efforts.
This article is part of the theme issue ‘Solar eruptions and their space weather impact’.

]. Introduction

Solar energetic particle (SEP) events are observable enhancements of electrons, protons and heavy
ion fluxes at energies well above the average thermal energy of the solar wind population that
occur as a consequence of transient solar activity [1-3]. These SEP events result from solar
flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs). Processes of magnetic reconnection in solar flares
and of particle acceleration at shocks, driven by fast CMEs, are believed to be the origin of
SEP events [4]. However, the relative role of flares and CME-driven shocks in the processes
of particle energization is still under debate. This is mainly due to the fact that SEP events
appear in connection with both solar flares and CMEs, while the transport conditions of SEPs
in interplanetary (IP) space blur direct cause/effect association [5,6]. Critical information on
the acceleration mechanisms of SEPs can be derived from the remote sensing observations of
the solar corona during solar eruptive phenomena (e.g. solar flares, CMEs) [7,8]. At the Sun,
both X-ray and y-ray emissions are produced by accelerated particles during solar flares. In
particular, accelerated electrons produce X-rays as they collide with ambient ions (bremsstrahlung
emission), while streams of accelerated ions produce gamma-rays as they hit the dense layers
above the solar surface (nuclear collisions). Hence, X-ray and y-ray observations yield direct
information on ion and electron acceleration at the solar corona and further provide diagnostics
of accelerated particles as they hit the Sun. Therefore, they give complementary diagnostics to the
escaping energetic particles seen in in situ as SEPs. Moreover, the radio emission at wavelengths
from centimetre (cm-) to decametre (dm-—) waves includes a large variety of emission processes