application of the commutative law of addition etc. [and because] this always corresponds
to geometric theorems or logical conclusions, one can count these [processes], and, for
instance, in proving certain theorems of elementary geometry (the Pythagoras theorem,
[theorems] on remarkable points of triangles), one can very well decide which of the proofs
is the simplest. [Author’s note: Part of the last sentence is not only barely legible in Hilbert’s
notebook but also grammatically incorrect. Corrections and insertions that Hilbert made in
this entry show that he wrote down the problem in haste.]’

From this note, it is clear that Hilbert’s 24th problem is about the simplicity of proofs.
Therefore, in this problem, one has to compare proofs and consequently it is important to know
when two proofs can be said to be the same. For instance, one may formalize a proof in two
different ways and if we are given two different formalizations, it is important to know whether
these formalizations correspond to the same proof. In fact, if they do correspond to the same proof
and we want some kind of criteria measuring the simplicity of proofs, that criteria must assign
the same simplicity for those two formalizations.

In this paper, we hope to give a possible reason for Hilbert mentioning syzygies in his 24th
problem. In order to do such, we consider the problem of identification of proofs in the context of
the membership problem of a polynomial f in an ideal. The main idea throughout this article is
the following: given a Grébner basis, we consider the corresponding reductions and apply those
to f in all possible ways. With this information, we can draw a graph where a rewriting step
corresponds to an edge. We then can easily identify some paths with each other because they
essentially come from applying the rewriting rules in a different order. After these identifications,
how can we identify two paths that are not a simple reordering of the application of the rewriting
tules? To each path, there is a corresponding expression for f in terms of the Grébner bases. So,