and we want some kind of criteria measuring the simplicity of proofs, that criteria must assign
the same simplicity for those two formalizations.

In this paper, we hope to give a possible reason for Hilbert mentioning syzygies in his 24th
problem. In order to do such, we consider the problem of identification of proofs in the context of
the membership problem of a polynomial f in an ideal. The main idea throughout this article is
the following: given a Grébner basis, we consider the corresponding reductions and apply those
to f in all possible ways. With this information, we can draw a graph where a rewriting step
corresponds to an edge. We then can easily identify some paths with each other because they
essentially come from applying the rewriting rules in a different order. After these identifications,
how can we identify two paths that are not a simple reordering of the application of the rewriting
tules? To each path, there is a corresponding expression for f in terms of the Grébner bases. So,
our aim is to identify those expressions of f, and we can do it modulo a certain module. In fact,
we do it modulo a syzygy module and we hope this explains why Hilbert mentioned syzygies in
his 24th problem.

In §2, we apply this reasoning to a polynomial f and an ideal I. In §2a, we introduce the context
of this membership problem. For instance, we introduce the concept of a rewriting rule, which
is well known from the theory of polynomial rings, and through a rewriting process, we are
able to solve this problem. The rewriting rules that we used in order to solve the membership
problem could have been used in a different way, giving rise to a different rewriting process. In
§2b, we consider all rewriting processes that solve our problem and translate this information
into a graph. In this graph, we have paths from the vertex corresponding to f to the vertex
corresponding to zero. We identify some paths and in §2c, we build an analogy between the paths
in the graph and proofs of the membership of f to I. For instance, each way of reducing f to zero