immense structures (figure 4). Third, the strongly twisted magnetic field lines in ICMEs, which are
identified as MCs, could represent a fraction of a more complicated and extended ICME structure
as suggested by the analysis of in situ observations of many ICMEs (e.g. [62]). Such a pattern could
be due to multiple ICMEs with their sheaths arriving as a complex structure at 1 AU. In addition,
the separation of ICME magnetic flux into strongly and weakly twisted components could also
result from the evolution of plasma £ in a CME during its heliospheric propagation and how this
specifically affects the distribution of magnetic flux within it. This effect was studied in detail
with MHD simulations of CME propagation in the heliosphere [52]. In figure 4 from this study, it
can be seen that the CME can be decomposed into two distinct domains: a central, nearly circular
inner core threaded by strongly twisted magnetic fields, surrounded by an envelope with more
deformed shape, due to its stronger coupling with the ambient solar wind. The MC that would
be identified by an in situ observation would be the inner core of this composite structure. As a
matter of fact, strongly twisted magnetic field lines could inhibit the expansion and size of MFR
as modelling of in situ observations of MCs suggest (e.g. [63]).

Clearly, more studies of the duration of CME impacts are needed. This should be a rather
straightforward task given the availability of 3D geometrical reconstructions and associated
ENLIL and other MHD simulations for a large statistical sample of CMEs observed during the
STEREO era. In addition, and given the discussion in the previous paragraph, imminent advances
in heliospheric imaging due to the Parker Solar Probe [64] (PSP) and Solar Orbiter [65] missions
should help constrain CME size and structure in the inner heliosphere. Finally, it could be
potentially helpful to shift the focus of CME/ICME imaging observations from the bright fronts
to the inner and darker cavities so as to more sensitively connect with the in situ observations.

5. Forecasting coronal mass ejection magnetic fields at 1 AU