where any atom has F = 3 degrees of freedom (d.f.) and r neighbours (different chemical elements
having different numbers of neighbours), and assigned r/2 constraints associated with the bonds
(dividing by 2 because of sharing constraints by both atoms) and 2r — 3 angle constraints.’ Thus
across the system each atom has, on average, C = 2.5(r) — 3 constraints. Setting F = C gives the
condition that the case (r) = 6/2.5 = 2.4 for the boundary between an over-constrained (larger (r))
and under-constrained (smaller (r)) system. The thought had been that this point will mark a
transition between whether a glass is easily formed or not.

In Cambridge, being aware of this work, Volker Heine and I were then inspired by a talk given
by Marcel Vallade [6] of the University of Grenoble concerning the flexibility of quartz in its high-
temperature 8 phase. In f-quartz, there is a phonon mode that softens on cooling towards the
a-B phase transition. For the phase transition, this mode will soften at wave vector q = 0, but in
fact, there is a softening of the whole branch from q =0 to q=a*/2. For phonon wave vectors
q— 0, there is an interaction between the soft optic mode and a transverse acoustic mode that
varies as q”; the soft optic mode and transverse acoustic mode have same symmetry for q #0
but different symmetries at q=0, and thus the coupling must vanish as q — 0 [7]. This gives
rise to the previously unexpected incommensurate phase transitions over a short temperature
interval between the a and £ phases. In order to understand the origin of this behaviour, Vallade
had shown that the soft mode can propagate with rotations and translations of undistorted SiO4
tetrahedra, with the type of motion extending across a range of wave vectors in the phonon
dispersion curves.

At that time, we were intrigued that our experimental colleagues in the area of Mineral Physics
were finding many displacive phase transitions in network aluminosilicates. These materials are
composed of corner-sharing AlO4 and SiO, tetrahedra, with charge-balancing cations occupying