explored, but one simple system that has been studied—Zn(CN),—might point to some
interesting warnings. I introduced the fact that there are 8 RUMs per wave vector earlier (§2)
[21,22]. Of these, two are transverse acoustic modes, three are optic modes involving transverse
displacements of the CN ligands from the Zn—CN-Zn linkage, and three are optic modes
involving twisting of the Zn—Cn-Zn linkage through rotation of the CN linkage. At first sight,
we can imagine that the six optic mode RUMs provide the tension effect for the extraordinarily
large NTE in this material, as has been suggested also for some metal cyanides with lower-
dimensional network structures [56,57]. However, our calculations of the relevant forces and
phonon dispersion curves [37] have shown that there are important directional forces that favour
linear Zn—CN-Zn linkages and which are sufficiently strong to push the frequencies of the
transverse displacement and twist modes up to 2-4THz and around 9THz, respectively. Thus
the motions that gives a strong tension effect also increase the frequencies and hence, importantly,
decrease the mode amplitude. In fact it turns out that the NTE in Zn(CN)9 is caused primarily by
the RUM transverse acoustic modes [37,58].

The more general point is that when we consider flexibility in metal-organic frameworks we
now have an issue that is not generally so prevalent in ceramics (the exception perhaps being
Cu20), namely directional bonding. The RUM model pre-supposes flexible linkages at the joints
between the structural polyhedra, but the existence of directional forces (as clearly illustrated in
the case of Zn(CN)2 [37]) gives strong force constants that oppose the types of flexibility seen in
ceramics.

While directional forces may limit network flexibility, there is one aspect of MOFs that gives
another source of flexibility, namely the flexibility of the ligand itself. This aspect has been
studied in the famous material MOF-5, partly in connection with the observed NTE, both by