by replenishment can account for either of these. It can also account for the observation that
MORB commonly contains diverse populations of phenocrysts and antecrysts, each recording a
different petrogenetic history [74-76,78-80], as well as xenoliths of crystal mush [56,57]: when
mush destabilizes and melts are transported upwards through it, they may pick up crystals and
crystal clots from different parts of the system. Furthermore, even when crystals originate from a
single location, the dynamics of mixing of melt and mush can be such that each crystal may take
a different composition-time path, leading to the generation of multiple populations [64]. Finally,
focused melt transport through a crystal mush may explain the occurrence of vertical magmatic
fabrics in gabbros from the top third of fast-spreading lower oceanic crust. Such fabrics have
been documented both in Pacific lower crust [36,44] and in the Oman ophiolite [42,81,82], and are
defined predominantly by aligned plagioclase defining both a sheeted dyke-parallel foliation and
approximately vertical lineation. Although some workers argue that the fabrics record downward
flow of cumulates produced in the overlying axial melt lens (e.g. [83-86]), the fact that the deeper,
layered gabbros are more primitive than the foliated gabbros, and that, in contrast to the layered
gabbros below, the foliated gabbros are not layered, makes this scenario unlikely. Instead, we
argue that the fabrics record the focused upward transport of melt through the mush, with the
shear stress along the melt-mush interface leading to the alignment of the crystal framework
surrounding the melt channel [36,42,82].

In summary, melt transport in the mid-ocean ridge crystal mush occurs both by porous and
focused flow. Porous flow is an inevitable consequence of crystal mush systems, and, because


porous flow is reactive, has major implications for melt evolution. It is supplemented by rapid, 8 |
channelized flow that results from a combination of replenishment and the concentration of