
Figure 2. Developmental chain from research subject over research tool to technology. (Online version in colour.)

pyramid in Egypt [3]. In fact, they had already been used in 1955 by E.P.George in Australia
to determine the ice burden over a tunnel [4]. Over time, it became routine in particle physics
experiments to use them for the commissioning of new particle detectors. Their high average
energy of 3GeV leads to straight tracks in the Earth’s magnetic field and their low flux of about
100 Hzm~? at sea level is not challenging for any data acquisition system, but sufficient to take
some useful data. At several underground experiments, the cosmic-ray muon shadow of the
moon has been used to verify the position resolution of the detector. One example is the IceCube
neutrino experiment at the South Pole [5]. Muon detection has been an important component of
the CMS and ATLAS experiments at CERN and played an important role in the discovery of the
Higgs boson in 2012 [6,7]. In fact, CMS is an acronym for ‘Compact Muon Solenoid’, emphasizing
the importance of muon detection for the experiment. In 2003, researchers at Los Alamos National
Laboratory published a seminal paper [8] on imaging with cosmic-ray muons that showed for the
first time how the Coulomb scattering of muons in matter could be used for imaging applications.
Previously, only information from the absorption of muons in matter had been used. This paper
is the kick-off point for a rapid increase of publications on muography as shown in figure 1. In
the developmental chain from the research subject to research tool to technology (figure 2), this
marks the transition from a research tool to technology, i.e. a tool with applications outside of
research.

The properties of a technological tool define the possible and useful applications of the tool.
Cosmic-ray muons are highly penetrating, their average energy is about 10000 times the energy
of a typical X-ray and they can penetrate hundreds of metres of rock. This means that they are