where applications can be found that combine shielding, resolution and time scales for which
muography is a suitable imaging method. =

The most frequent application in geoscience is the imaging of the inside of volcanoes. :S
This method is now widely used by volcanologists, e.g. in Japan, Italy and France. There 18
are several papers in this special issue that deal with this particular application [9-11]. Other :
geoscience applications include prospecting, especially brown site mining exploration [12], : 5
imaging of underground structures [13,14] and the monitoring of carbon capture storage sites [15]. Dw
Muography for geoscience applications fills a niche between other imaging technologies like ia
ground penetrating radar and seismology, imaging at depths and resolutions that are not suitable [3
for those. a

Nuclear safety and security is another obvious application: the very fact that radioactive .
material and waste is typically stored in shielded containers that are designed to contain the
radiation also means that similar radiation cannot be used to image their contents. This is
where the high average energy and the minimum ionizing nature of cosmic muons comes into
play. The ability of muography to distinguish between nuclear fuel and other metals including
lead is crucial for applications in nuclear security, in particular for cargo screening for national
security [8], but also for safeguards applications, e.g. the monitoring of dry storage casks [16,17].
The search for special nuclear materials inside cargo containers was one of the first potential
applications of muon tomography. The imaging of the contents of nuclear waste containers and
the quality assurance for nuclear waste treatment processes [18,19] are further key applications
in the field of nuclear safety. Finally, nuclear reactors themselves also can be imaged with cosmic
muons. There have been attempts to image the corium in the Fukushima—Daichi reactors [20],
supported by simulations that indicate that this should be possible.