security [8], but also for safeguards applications, e.g. the monitoring of dry storage casks [16,17].
The search for special nuclear materials inside cargo containers was one of the first potential
applications of muon tomography. The imaging of the contents of nuclear waste containers and
the quality assurance for nuclear waste treatment processes [18,19] are further key applications
in the field of nuclear safety. Finally, nuclear reactors themselves also can be imaged with cosmic
muons. There have been attempts to image the corium in the Fukushima—Daichi reactors [20],
supported by simulations that indicate that this should be possible.

Civil engineering applications include the monitoring of the inside of blast furnaces [21],
the monitoring of historical buildings [22], large structures like bridges and wind turbines and
potentially also structures at oil rigs. Civil engineering is by far the largest potential market for
commercial muography, but it is so far also the least explored field. This may have to do with the
fact that this is typically a field that is more used to industry-led innovation, while the applications
in nuclear safety and security and in volcanology are typically publicly funded. Most research in
muography is still being carried out in the context of university research and national laboratories,
and these are more likely to look for applications for which public funding is available.

Probably the best-known application of muography concerns the Pyramids in Egypt. In
principle, this archaeological application is a particular civil engineering application. From the
point of view of the measurement, there is no fundamental difference between a cavity in
a nineteenth century bridge or in a pyramid. The ScanPyramids project recently discovered
cavities in the Pyramid of Khufu (Cheops) [23], using three different sets of muon detectors and
combining the results. They have found indications for a large cavity above the Grand Gallery
and for a previously unknown access corridor from the North face of the pyramid.
