large scale where other techniques often fail. This unique capability of muon imaging is based
on the high penetrating power of high-energy muons. Muons are elementary particles, which
are similar to electrons but about 207 times heavier. Owing to the heavy mass of muons and the

fact that muons do not take part in the strong interaction, muons lose much less energy than :2
almost all of the other particles when passing through matter. Therefore, they can penetrate much DS
deeper. There are two types of muon imaging techniques. The first is muon absorption imaging, : =
and the second is muon multiple scattering imaging. These two techniques are based on the two : =
muon interactions with matter, ie. energy loss and multiple scattering, respectively. The muon 8
absorption imaging technique can be used to image very large objects such as volcanoes [1], but it [3
can also be used to image relatively smaller objects such as nuclear spent fuel casks [2]. The muon iS
multiple scattering imaging technique can only be used to image relatively small objects, such as :8
shipping containers [3] and nuclear waste containers [4], due to the fact that both the incoming : s
and outgoing muon tracks need to be measured. 8

Muon imaging requires solving an inverse problem [5]. This is because the characteristic
properties of the imaging object cannot be measured directly using the muon imaging system.
However, they can be inferred from the effects of the muon interaction with matter, which can be
measured directly. In the case of muon absorption imaging, material density can be inferred from
the muon flux attenuation; and in the case of muon multiple scattering imaging, the scattering
density [3], which is the inverse of the material radiation length and closely related to the atomic
number of the materials, can be reconstructed from the muon scattering angle and displacement.
There are no simple analytical equations that can be used to calculate the material properties
directly from those measured effects for muon imaging. However, the inverse is true, there is a
simple relationship between the material properties and the effects, which can be used to predict