
In ยง2, it has been shown that the forward modelling of muon imaging can be described as a line
integral along the muon path, which is similar to the well-studied forward modelling of X-ray
CT. Hence, image reconstruction algorithms based on the Radon transform [12] and algorithms
based on systems of linear equations [13] can be used directly for muon imaging. However, to
use the above-mentioned image reconstruction algorithms, muon quasi-beams have to be formed

and muon attenuation or the variance of the scattering angles has to be calculated for each quasi- :2
beam. To keep the statistical error small, the number of muons in each quasi-beam has to be : =
large. There are two ways to increase the muon number for each quasi-beam, one is to increase : S
the angular and spatial bin sizes, and the other is to increase the data collection time. Increasing a]
the bin sizes has a negative effect on the image spatial resolution. On the other hand, due to : <
the fact that the cosmic ray muon rate is relatively low, to gather enough muons to reconstruct : >
a high resolution image is time-consuming. Furthermore, the assumption of a straight muon io
beam path by the quasi-beam worsens the image spatial resolution even further, because the 18
actual muon paths inside the matter are most likely to be curved due to the multiple scattering : s
effect. Therefore, for applications that require a high spatial resolution, an image reconstruction 18

algorithm not relying on an explicit muon beam is required. Moreover, for some applications,
such as imaging a volcano [14], or imaging an underground mineral deposit, where the possible
detector deployment locations are limited, special image reconstruction methods are also needed.

Indeed, for multiple scattering imaging, from the very beginning, the Radon transform-based
image reconstruction method and the algebraic image reconstruction method were ruled out
by this imaging technique developer. Instead, the Point of Closest Approach (PoCA) and the