x a +1.0391 x
Figure 13. Zoom-in of the vertical section of the stationary front branches shown in figure 12, revealing that the Maxwell points
of the stationary front branches connecting the UV state to the BS state via zero (red), one (green) or two (blue) pulses do not
overlap. Each multipulse front can have a section of UV inserted near the summit of any of the pulses or a section of BS inserted
between them. Solution profiles of biomass (green) and water (blue) are shown at various points along the vertical sections of
the branches. The LS branches shown here are unstable. (Online version in colour.)

bulk of the domain. This broadening process manifests itself in the vertical portion of the branch
(see E in figure 13), whose location (i.e. the Maxwell point) can be found by computing the value
of the parameter a for the formation of a heteroclinic connection between the BS and UV* states.
That such a connection is likely is a consequence of the fact that the unstable manifold of BS
and the stable manifold of UV*+ are both two-dimensional at this value of a [28]. Since the stable
eigenvalues of UV* are in fact complex (figure 1), we expect an oscillatory approach to UVt
(responsible for the overshoot at the top right corner of the branch in figure 13) but monotonic
growth away from BS. So the presence of large amplitude oscillations away from and then back
to BS is unexpected. In fact, these pulses form by a natural mechanism. From the point of view
of trajectories in four-dimensional phase space a pulse forms when a trajectory departs from
BS, viewed as a saddle point in phase space, follows its unstable manifold towards UV* and
then the unstable manifold of UV* back towards BS. This process may repeat any number of
times. By tuning the parameter a we can arrange for an arbitrary number of large amplitude
pulses before the trajectory terminates on UV* forming a heteroclinic connection between BS and
UV". Figure 13 shows two of the resulting Maxwell points. As shown in table 1, the locations
of these Maxwell points converge exponentially rapidly as the number n of pulses in the front

