has been trying, without success, to build a time machine. Then, when he has become sufficiently
frustrated as to be just about ready to toss the whole business in the trash, a silent visitor (who
bears a remarkable resemblance to our hero) appears on the physicist’s doorstep, hands him a
thick notebook and leaves. In the notebook are detailed instructions, written in a bold hand, in
ink, on how to build a time machine. This the physicist does and, 20 years later and the winner
of three consecutive Nobel prizes, he decides to journey back to give the notebook to his younger
self. We seem to have a self-consistent loop (or do we?—more on this in just a moment), but the
obvious, immediate question that presents itself is: who wrote the notebook? It certainly was not
the physicist: the book was handed to him, he kept it in his possession for 20 years and then he
handed it back to himself. Not even once did he put pen or ink to paper. So who did?

Perhaps surprisingly, information loops in time have a long literary history that pre-dates
the science fiction magazines. In the 1904 novel The Panchronicon, for example, we learn how
a Shakespeare suffering from writer’s block came to write one of his plays: a time-travelling fan
from 1898 whispers the magic lines she has memorized (for her literary club meetings) into his ear.
Would this make Shakespeare a plagiarist? Of himself? In whose mind did the words originate?
[41] This sort of loop does avoid a serious objection to the time-travelling notebook loop: when the
physicist gives the notebook to his younger self, both the ink and the paper on which it is written
are 20 years older than they were when he received the notebook, and so the closed loop in time
is actually not a consistent one. There is, in contrast, no such ‘ageing’ concern in the Shakespeare
loop. The difference in the two loops is that one contains a circulating physical artefact, and the
other does not.

Well, what does all of this have to do with Heaviside’s FTL particles? Suppose such particles
exist, and further suppose we can build devices that both generate (transmit) and detect (receive)