undergraduate Physics course, and everybody accepts that this should be enough for having a
bigger picture of the electrical and electronic world.

Yet, in the year 2013, I came across Oliver Heaviside’s work in full. How? From around

2010 I was involved in a large research project on the new generation of energy-harvesting
electronics. The project embraced several research teams from different universities. The full set
of expertise of these teams included power generation, power regulation and energy-harvesting-
aware computational circuits. My team at Newcastle was responsible for the latter. It was during :3
that project that I started to build the vision of computational electronics that was driven by .
potentially unpredictable and variable power sources rather than what had usually been seen
as the recipient of unlimited power or energy supply. I called this type of computing ‘energy-
modulated’ [1], to emphasize the fact that it was energy flow that defined the computational
action. In the following section on energy-modulated computing, I shall briefly explain its main
idea. To underpin this concept, a patent on a self-powered voltage sensor was filed in 2011 [2].
In this method and apparatus, we used a capacitor to store the energy of the measured signal
as a charge. This charge then was used to drive a self-timed frequency divider (or counter),
which effectively converted the charge in the capacitor into binary code. At some point, the
voltage across the capacitor became too low to drive the increment action in the counter. The
resulting code could then be used as a digital measure of the initial voltage across the capacitor.
An interesting challenge was to determine the strict relationship between this voltage and the
code. Furthermore, another interesting question came up. What is the law according to which
the charge, and hence the voltage across the capacitor, follows in time when the capacitor is
discharged through a digital load formed by such a self-timed circuit? This answer was found
and it appeared to be a hyperbolic (not exponential!) decay law—we presented in the following