This ambiguity with weakening mechanisms is further compounded by different
implementations of temperature-dependent viscosity. As noted above, the viscosity of
silicate rocks is strongly temperature-dependent, but many simulation studies employ only
mildly temperature-dependent viscosity [118-120]. The activation energy, which controls the
temperature dependence, of diffusion creep in olivine aggregates is approximately 300 kJ mol!
[112,121], and such activation energy corresponds to a viscosity contrast of approximately 1047
for the total temperature drop across the oceanic lithosphere, from 1300°C to 0°C. This extreme
viscosity contrast is, however, not relevant to the strength of oceanic lithosphere because other
deformation mechanisms, such as brittle failure and low-temperature plasticity, likely limit the
yield strength below approximately 1 GPa [122], which corresponds to the effective viscosity of
approximately 1074 Pas with the geological strain rate of 10-!° s~! (figure 7). If the viscosity of
the asthenosphere is 10!9 Pas, then, the viscosity contrast across the lithosphere would be limited
to just 10°. An often overlooked fact is that this small viscosity contrast results from the combined
effect of multiple deformation mechanisms, and using mildly temperature-dependent viscosity
does not reproduce the realistic strength profile of oceanic lithosphere (figure 7, compare cases
A and B). The viscosity contrast of 10° is sufficient to produce stagnant lid convection [113], so
even with this mild temperature dependence, one can simulate a transition from stagnant lid
convection to plate tectonics by turning on some weakening mechanism, or more commonly, just
by imposing a constant yield strength. In such an exercise, a system is already situated close
to the boundary of different convection regimes, thereby being primed to exhibit a change in
the mode of convection by small perturbations in model parameters. Also, weaker temperature-
dependence facilitates the delamination of lithosphere [127,128] and enhances the efficiency of
convective mixing. Thus, the apparently innocuous approximation for temperature-dependent
viscosity could affect the various aspects of numerical simulation. A similar comment can be
