we, however, empirically observe a different behaviour when incorporating uncertainty on the
within cluster variance. In fact, the MAP clustering (figure 4b) contains only a single cluster in
almost all replicates and is robust to the choice of a. Again, the marginal posterior on k (figure 4a)
and the Binder clustering (figure 4c) are quite sensitive to the value of a, with the Binder clustering
extremely overestimating the number of clusters for larger n and w. The VI clustering (figure 4d)
contains only a single clustering in some replications, and in others contains two to four clusters,
particularly for larger sample sizes. The former can be explained by the fact that the VI solution is
obtained by minimizing a function of the posterior similarity matrix, and as each posterior sample
corresponds to an arbitrary partition of the data points into convex sets, each pair of data points
may have a relatively high probability of being clustered together.

These examples highlight that the choice of estimator can greatly affect the number of clusters
and clustering solution. In fact, while most asymptotic theory focuses on the behaviour of the
marginal posterior on the number of clusters, quite a different behaviour is observed when
estimating the full clustering solution. As practitioners are interested in the full clustering
solution, this is an important aspect to consider. There are a number of interesting directions
to expand this study, including further investigating the performance of the different estimators
in the misspecified setting, as well as the case when the clusters are not well separated (Rajkowski
[157] finds that MAP tends to underestimate the number clusters in this setting), and sensitivity
to hyperparameters. Other estimators can be studied, e.g. Dahl et al. [171] develops generalized
forms of Binder’s loss and VI with unequal penalties, which provide more control over the
estimated number of clusters but require specifying an additional parameter of the generalized


loss. Moreover, this study can be expanded by empirically comparing different models (MFM,