
2. The control of gene expression 8

For the purposes of this exposition, we focus on prokaryotic gene regulation via promoters.
A promoter is a loosely defined object. We can take it to signify a stretch of DNA, upstream of
every gene, which controls whether that gene is expressed or not. The properties of a promoter,
like those of a gene, are determined by its DNA sequence. A survey of bacterial promoters reveals
a conserved pattern of nucleotides, all variations of a particular consensus sequence. The most
conserved regions are two short stretches situated —35 and —10 nucleotides from the site at
which transcription begins [2, ch. 7]. These regions are thought to provide the binding site that is
specifically recognized by the RNA polymerase protein (figure 2a).

There are in fact numerous proteins that, like the polymerase, are able to recognize and bind
specific nucleotide sequences. Their binding sites are typically between six and 20 base pairs in
length. Binding is mediated by physical interactions between residues on the protein and on the
DNA molecule. Given the structure of a protein we should, in principle, be able to calculate its
interaction energy with a particular DNA sequence. The result of such a calculation would be
the ‘DNA-binding code’. The search for such a code is an active area of research [16-18], but
for the time being we can rely on experimental measurements of binding affinities [7,8]. Various
classes of DNA-binding proteins are known, grouped according to the structure of their DNA
recognition domains. These proteins are often modular, having one domain that binds DNA,
and another that is responsible for regulatory interactions. Once bound to DNA, a protein can
recruit other proteins to its vicinity, or can prevent them from binding. In particular, a DNA-
binding protein can interact with and influence the binding and transcriptional activity of the
RNA polymerase. Such molecules are known as gene regulatory proteins or transcription factors.