
From the perspective of the rule of law ‘legal regulation’ is a subset of law and as such it is : 3
constrained by the legality principle, meaning that such regulation is both more and less than the ical

cybernetic understanding of regulation purports. Law, including ‘legal regulation’, is focused not
merely on the modification of behaviour, but on coordinating, prohibiting and enabling action
in a way that addresses individuals that are subject to law as capable of giving reasons for their actions
and in a way that respects their autonomy. This implies that not anything goes in terms of behaviour
modification, as those whose behaviour is to be modified must be treated as the authors of their
own actions. Scholars such as Paul Ricoeur and Neil MacCormick understand the law in terms
of speech act theory [18-21], meaning that the force of law depends on the attribution of legal
effect whenever specified legal conditions apply. Such legal effect cannot be understood in terms
of ‘influencing’; it is not a matter of causality. Instead, the legal effect creates ‘institutional facts’,
such as ownership, contract and human rights. Legal effect means that certain acts ‘count as’ or
‘qualify as’, for example, murder or personal data processing. Institutional legal facts are based
on the performative nature of speech acts and notably of legal text. In that sense modern, positive
law is based on text—it is a text-driven law.

Modern law is the set of rules and principles that determine positive law; they establish
what ‘counts as’ or ‘qualifies as’ a violation of a legal norm or a legal right. The rules and
principles that constitute modern positive law are generated by the binding sources of the law:
legislation, case law and treaties, in combination with doctrine, fundamental principles and
customary law. They are enacted by legislators and courts (that produce the binding sources
of the law) and applied and thus interpreted by government authorities. In a constitutional
democracy, that interpretation can be challenged and the final word on how the law must