Nissenbaum’s seminal framework—contextual integrity [14]—is an approach that aims to capture 12
the dual technical-normative nature of privacy. Contextual integrity is a justificatory framework 3
for privacy. It states that privacy breaches can be tracked to violations of societal norms regarding 1B
appropriate information flows within a particular context. Where it is possible to encode norms S
formally and determine whether a particular information flow respects these norms, i.e. when the 78
norms are unambiguous and furthermore effectively testable, then the framework can be used to iw
precisely predict or flag violations of the societal norms. As an example, Barth et al. [16] provide :
a model for encoding norms appearing in legal standards such as HIPAA. 73
Normative concepts are often not defined explicitly, and, when they are, they are not expressed : &
in a formal language that enables a precise analysis. As a result, there is uncertainty with respect .
to which information flows are in agreement with normative concepts. In many cases, it may
be difficult to determine with reasonable certainty whether an information flow is appropriate,
whether it creates a risk of a privacy breach or even whether a privacy breach has in fact occurred.
In order to bridge normative and technical concepts, the framework of contextual integrity
could in the future be equipped with formal mathematical definitions. If defined formally, its
fundamental concepts, i.e. context, information flow and norm, could provide an interface for
integrating formal privacy models into the framework. As an example, the formalization of
context, information flow and norm would allow researchers and policymakers to reason about
the appropriateness of using differentially private analyses in various contexts. This reasoning
would involve making and proving quantifiable statements regarding the extent to which
differential privacy respects social norms around privacy in different contexts.

(b) Bridging the legal and technical perspectives

Motivated by the lack of translational work to bridge the legal and technical perspectives of