
As we have emphasized above, the unique dynamical properties of NESs are majorly exploited 74
for the purpose of passive vibration suppression in mechanical structures being subjected to any 2S
kind of impulsive, transient or harmonic broadband loading. Earlier works in the field of vibration 7S
absorption have demonstrated the tremendous capabilities of the NES model (incorporating a [3
pure cubic nonlinearity) to efficiently operate over the broad frequency range. This spectacular .
property of the purely nonlinear vibration absorber is obviously impossible for conventional,
linear, TMDs. Based on some recent works concerned with the dynamical properties of rotational
NESs, one may wonder whether its applicability for broadband vibration absorption can be
enhanced. The first attempt to answer this question can be found in some relatively recent work
by Farid & Gendelman [44].

It is a well-known fact that the usual NES designs possess quite obvious drawbacks when
exploited for vibration suppression in mechanical models subjected to impulsive loading as they
are efficient only in the limited range of initial excitation energies. The reason for this limitation
is quite simple. As we have already pointed out above, the mechanism of TET is completely
based on a transient resonance capture. Therefore, if the initial excitation is below a certain
threshold, then the energy supplied to the NES is insufficient to satisfy the necessary conditions
for resonance capture. However, if the initial energy level is too high, then through resonance
capture, the actual energy dissipation process may take too long. Many studies have been devoted
to the efficient design of NESs with a broader operation range in terms of the initial excitation
energies. For instance, in some earlier works it was demonstrated that by the application of
multiple d.f., the NES operation range can be broadened significantly. It is worthwhile noting
that all the engineering solutions relying on multiple d.f. NESs are less attractive as they require
a more complex design and are harder to control.