magnetization configuration can be approximately deduced from micromagnetics simulations.
Banerjee et al. found that the magnitude of I, varied substantially as a function of applied field as
the field was swept through zero to switch the magnetizations. The highest I; occurred at applied
fields of about +10 Oe. Simulations showed that the Permalloy magnetization tended to switch at
a lower field than the Co magnetization, as expected due to its low magnetocrystalline anisotropy.

The maximum value of I; occurred when the Permalloy magnetization had nearly completed its : =
switching, whereas the Co magnetization was still in the middle of the switching process. As a : S
result, there were substantial regions of the sample where the Permalloy and Co magnetizations : 2
were non-collinear, giving rise to large spin-triplet supercurrent. 14

The results of Banerjee et al. [44] were the best attempt at the time towards reproducible control _
of spin-triplet supercurrent. But they suffer from the fact that the magnetic configuration where 4
the largest I; is observed is not stable to small changes in the applied field. One would like to 7s
have a situation where a sample is put into a certain configuration by applying a field, the applied : ez
field is then removed, and the sample stays in the same configuration. Two ongoing experiments 1g

in our laboratory have this goal. The first experiment is similar in philosophy to the Banerjee
experiment, with two major differences. First, we use a SAF rather than a single ferromagnet
for the F layer. Our hope, confirmed by measurements of the anisotropic magnetoresistance, is
that a Co/Ru/Co SAF is magnetically stiff enough not to change its magnetization in sufficiently
small applied fields, of the order of 100-200 Oe. In addition, use of the SAF should minimize
stray fields that could influence the magnetization of the soft ferromagnetic layer above it. The
second difference is that the shape of one or more of the ferromagnetic layers is round rather than
rectangular. (Since the shape of the junctions is determined by ion milling, we have the option