interpretation corresponds to the subliminal interpretation of the correlations being causal.

The advent of quantum mechanics has led us to contemplate causal relations as generally
probabilistic, as is the case in all natural and human sciences. Although a probabilistic context
for physical causation had already been considered by several authors [1,3,19], the precise
mathematical formulation of causality has been given only recently in the context of operational
probabilistic theories (OPT) [13] (see §2). Such formulation covers all possible instances of the
notion, and corresponds to setting up a partial ordering among events, thus requiring a network
description, which is embedded in the operational framework. The OPT formulation is perfectly
compliant with the historical philosophical concept of causality since David Hume, along
with its usage in common reasoning, inference and modelling in sciences [19]. From its OPT
formulation, we can also appreciate that, being an ingredient of a probabilistic logical inference
approach, causality is a genuinely theoretical notion, and this simple fact closes all debates
about ‘objective’ identification of causes versus effects without assuming the arrow of time, as
in the case of the Phil Dowe analysis [3] of Wesley Salmon attempts [1,2]. Even the same issue
of Hume’s induction corresponds to such misinterpretation of causality as an objective notion,

5The misidentification of the two notions of ‘causality’ and ‘determinism’ is hidden ubiquitously in the literature. For
example, it is the reason why the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave theory is also called causal interpretation of quantum mechanics.
The logical independence between the two notions of causality and determinism is proved by the existence of causal
theories that are not deterministic (e.g. quantum theory), and vice versa of deterministic theories that are not causal (e.g.
the operational probabilistic theory (OPT) presented in [17]). (In a probabilistic context, ‘determinism’ is identified with the
tautological property of a theory of having all probabilities of physical events being equal to either zero or one, which is
clearly a definition with no causal connotation. Originally, the notion of determinism arose within the clockwork Universe
vision of classical mechanics, assessing that the state of a system at an initial time completely determines the state at any