of these equations in such a general form, especially if chemistry is present, is simply out of :<
the question. In order to progress and make predictions that still keep the universal character of : Zs

thermodynamics, the first step made by Prigogine in 1945 [12] was to restrict the investigations to
the properties of weakly dissipative systems that evolve close to an equilibrium state. We consider
this situation now. The next step, exploring the general properties of systems arbitrarily distant
from equilibrium, was accomplished later, in 1954, and will be considered in the next section.

In the neighbourhood of a true equilibrium state where thermodynamic fluxes and forces
vanish simultaneously, the phenomenological relationships between these quantities are in
good approximation given by linear laws. Furthermore, the famous Theorem of Onsager [36,37] =
then applies. It expresses the relationship between detailed balance at the macroscopic level” : 3
and the fact that the fundamental equations governing the motion of individual particles are
symmetric with respect to past and future, ie. that they are mathematically invariant under mea)
the transformation of time f + (—f). Accordingly, the number of independent phenomenological :
constants linking linearly thermodynamic fluxes and forces is drastically reduced owing to the [4
validity of the so-called Onsager reciprocity relations. Finally, these combined approximations DN
yielded the so-called Thermodynamics of irreversible processes, also now called Linear non-equilibrium 2S
thermodynamics. D&S

It is within this theoretical framework that Prigogine established his celebrated minimum .
entropy production theorem showing that entropy production is a thermodynamic potential that
applies for weakly out of equilibrium stationary states as well as for equilibrium states. It extends
the Le Chatelier-Braun moderation principle to the stationary states belonging to what he later
called the thermodynamic branch, i.e. the non-equilibrium branch of stationary states containing the