to the extent that losses are irregular and tied to swings in historically rare extreme events, there 74
could be enough variety in time and space to allow insurers to diversify their risks. So some 22
insurance markets might do better than others.) In addition, some assets—a beach that supports |
tourism, a centuries-old historical district, a chasmal barrier reef—are just too valuable or unique :g
to adequately insure: the scale is too large. .

One way insurers might seek to contain risk and add randomness would be to narrow the
universe of payable claims by insisting that claimants show evidence that their loss is fairly
traceable to an impact caused by anthropogenic climate change. But in our situation, attribution
might prove both too easy and too hard. In contrast to extreme-weather events like tornadoes
or flash floods, researchers are reasonably good at identifying causative links between global
warming and at least some slow-onset events (desertification and rising sea temperatures, for
example). In fact, this is one reason why Schleussner and his colleagues can estimate declines in
wheat yield and coral reefs as they do. But this predictability again cuts against an insurer’s need
to diversify. Claimants would learn how to show the causal link in certain kinds of cases and
would do so consistently. Insurers would be hung out to dry.

On the other hand, attributing a social harm to a climate-induced event is harder, but probably
too hard. Assume you can show that climate change was substantially responsible for a severe
reduction of regional water supplies over 5 years. How do you show it was substantially
responsible for the economic slump in the fourth year? Or the border war that flared up after
that? Or the ensuing cross-border migration? In fact, attributing economic or other social losses
to climate change turns out to be very difficult [13]. In contrast to the previous scenario where
insurers always lose, here the claimants would always lose, defeating the very purpose of a loss-
and-damage policy. Unless this attribution problem is solved, the use of attribution in a traditional