carbon on ozone and the impact of climate on ozone. All of these tend to enhance warming and
are shown on the right in figure 1. Additionally, it includes the impact of climate on methane
lifetime, aerosol forcing, dust and dimethy] sulfide. These may have the effect of offsetting some
of the future warming and are shown on the left in figure 1. The effect of fire is also expected
to have an effect but it is less clear whether this will be a warming or cooling effect. Each term
was characterized in terms of a linear feedback, as an additional forcing for per degree of global
average near surface warming. This extended the methodology of Arneth ef al. [15], which, in
turn used the framework of Gregory et al. [22].

The Earth system feedbacks discussed in the IPCC fifth assessment report contain substantial
uncertainties, with some estimates varying by more than an order of magnitude. In at least one
case, fire, even the sign of the feedback as well as its magnitude is uncertain. The low confidence is
also illustrated by the fact that several feedbacks have only a single estimate of their magnitude in
the IPCC report. Furthermore, while linearity of feedbacks is assumed to hold for these centennial
projections [15,22] there is some evidence of longer term variation and scenario dependence of at
least some of these feedbacks [19]. Despite the current low confidence in quantification of most of
these feedbacks, the information can still provide an initial view on the impact of the composite
effects of these Earth system feedbacks on allowable global carbon budgets.

In this study, we estimate the combined effect of all the Earth system feedbacks characterized in
the fifth IPCC assessment (and listed in figure 1) on the allowable global carbon budgets for 1.5째C
and 2째C of global average warming calculated with a simple climate model. We also consider
how the extra system feedbacks could impact on the eventual level of warming and time taken to
reach 1.5째C and 2째C for an ambitious mitigation scenario, RCP2.6.
