chance of not exceeding these levels of global average warming during the twenty-first century.
The probability that the temperature stays below 1.5°C and 2°C at all times during the twenty-
first century is around 15% for 1.5°C and 50-60% for 2°C in the model set-up used here when
no additional feedbacks are included (figure 4). This falls to around less than 10% and 30%,
respectively, when the most extreme (95th percentile) estimate of the extra feedbacks is included.
If we consider the date at which the median chance of staying under a warming level of 1.5°C
is crossed (which is around model year 2030 when no extra feedbacks are included) then for
the median estimate of the extra feedbacks the date is brought forward by around 3-5 years.
For the 95th percentile estimate of forcing this date is brought forward by around a decade.
The results for the 2°C threshold are similar but the impact on dates is slightly larger. This
means that when considering the extra feedbacks, it is not just necessary to take account of
the impact on levels of emission reduction and mitigation for a given warming limit, it is also
necessary to consider the fact that warming happens sooner, which is relevant to adaptation. The
slight increase in probability of staying below 1.5°C after 2050 is due to the more pronounced
temperature overshoot in the 1.5°C case.

It is important to note that we are not providing a best estimate here of the year where the
probability of limiting warming falls below a given level. Our simple climate model approach
does not sample natural internal variability and is not able to replicate the observed warming
slowdown during the 2000s. Instead, the purpose is to illustrate the change in the timing resulting
from including the additional feedbacks. The supplementary material contains time series of
global mean temperature for simulations with and without additional Earth system feedback for
the four RCPs.

4. Impact of additional Earth system feedbacks on global cumulative carbon