neither gas nor coal plants with CCS would be able to reach 2.5 g CO2/MJ. The sensitivity cases
thus all imply an almost complete phase-out of fossil fuel use in the electricity sector, as robustly
shown in deep mitigation pathways [8,33]. As can be seen in figure 2, the assumed sensitivity
cases cover the range of speeds and depths of power sector decarbonization in SSP-based 1.5°C
pathways. As IAMs have a detailed representation of the electricity sector and its decarbonization
potential [11], we take the radical transition of the sector projected in the lowest 1.5°C pathway in
figure 2 as a limiting case.

For the sensitivity analysis of global average carbon intensity reductions of other energy
carriers and industrial processes, we assumed a linear decline of 35%, 45%, 60%, 80% of carbon
intensity from 2020 until 2050 and again from 2050 until 2070, followed by a linear extrapolation
to end-of-century values of 20, 15, 10 and 2.5gCO2/MJ, respectively. The more linear decline
compared to the power sector captures the fact that the use of solids, gases and liquids in energy
end-use sectors is harder and slower to decarbonize. CCS in the industry sector and replacement
of fossil fuels with biomass, hydrogen and carbon-neutral synthetic fuels are among the main
decarbonization options here. As shown in figure 2, the upper three decarbonization cases
approximately cover the range of SSP-based 1.5°C pathways, while the lower case falls below this
range. In this assumed limiting case, the carbon intensity of the non-electric fuel mix is reduced
by a factor of 5 by 2050 and a factor of 25 by 2070, falling to negligible levels within 50 years.
The case was constructed to reflect the fact that most IAMs of the current generation, including
those analysed here, do not include a number of breakthrough technologies that could help to
decarbonize non-electric fuels faster and deeper. This includes the production of carbon-neutral
liquids and gases, e.g. algae-based biofuels [42] and synthetic fuels generated from renewable
based Power-to-X technologies and CO2 captured from the atmosphere [43,44].
