to include CO, removal associated with carbon sequestration from afforestation, agricultural
practices and, more generally, the management of terrestrial ecosystems, and a number of Annex
1 countries routinely report carbon forest sinks. These reported sinks are not fully anthropogenic
in that indirect effects (e.g. due to fertilization by atmospheric CO2 and/or nitrogen deposition)
and natural effects on managed land are also included. The exact definition of land-use emissions
is a challenge, and may vary between land-use modelling and integrated assessment models
(IAMs) on the one hand, and estimates from UNFCCC accounting rules on the other. There is
also no sophisticated treatment of land-use management in the current generation of Earth system
models yet. As a result, so-called permissible CO? emissions associated with a given concentration
or temperature pathway may not be directly comparable to the net global CO2 emissions as
per UNFCCC reporting rules when there is a significant contribution from CO removals by
ecosystems [16]. Finally, natural sinks can persist up to several decades after CO2 concentrations
have peaked in 1.5°C or 2°C mitigation pathways [17] due to the fact that the carbon cycle is
currently out of equilibrium.

The prospect of novel CDR techniques can raise new and different sets of questions. CDR
technologies can be broadly grouped according to where they store the atmospheric CO3. Besides
the terrestrial CDR measures in the LULUCF sector, there exist geological CDR techniques like
bioenergy combined with carbon capture and storage (BECCS), direct air capture and storage, and
enhanced weathering, as well as ocean-based CDR measures like ocean alkalinization and ocean
iron fertilization. Geological CDR sequesters the CO? in geological formations or mineralizes
it. BECCS, in particular, has been receiving increasing attention in recent years. Owing to its
reliance on bioenergy, it can impact anthropogenic emissions and removals in the LULUCF
sector that require robust reporting. However, its CDR component, the sequestration of CO2 in
geological formations, occurs in the energy sector and would need to be accounted for in terms of