
It is historically interesting to note that, in the Hilbert, von Neumann and Nordheim paper,
the basic object is the Green function of the Schrédinger equation, interpreted as transition
amplitude, whose square gives the transition (or conditional) probability. This approach will
be, 20 years later, the basis of the Feynman approach to quantum mechanics [10]. But in his
later monograph [7] von Neumann follows a completely different, purely algebraic, approach
based on the duality states-observables. This approach formally unifies classical and quantum
probability in the sense that also classical probability can be formulated in terms of this duality,
where state becomes synonymous with expectation value, from which a probability measure can be
recovered with standard procedures. This approach was later pursued by Segal [11]. The price to
pay is that one of the basic notions that distinguishes probability from general measure theory,
namely conditioning, was absent in this approach. An indication that von Neumann was aware
of this is that he devoted a long manuscript to the quantum conditioning problem. The fact
that this manuscript was never published is an indication of the author’s dissatisfaction with
its conclusion (which amounts to an algebraic version of the usual Bayes formula: today we
know that this is not the correct answer). This manuscript was later published under the editorial
supervision of Halperin [12]. The attempts to introduce a notion of quantum conditioning in
the context of C* and von Neumann algebras have a long history, which eventually led to the
conclusion that, in von Neumann algebras, there is an analogue of the conditional expectation,
but contrarily to the classical case, in general it is not a projection [13]. This problem will not
be discussed here. For more information on von Neumann’s role in the origins of quantum
probability, see [14].

Mackey’s monograph [15] was the starting point of an impetuous development of the studies
on the mathematical foundations of quantum theory. Very good expositions of the lattice-