temperature (K)

Figure 2. The top panel shows representative X-ray diffraction patterns obtained at a starting pressure of 9.1GPa and
subsequent laser heating. The diffraction peaks (111)ygo and (200)s4g0 were used to obtain the unit cell volume of MgO. The
resulting pressures obtained from MgO P-V-T E0S [13] at various temperatures are plotted in the lower right panel and the cell
constants of B,C obtained in the lower left panel. The error bars in pressure are estimated from the width of the Mg0 diffraction
peaks while the error bars in temperature are deduced from the overall drift in temperature and the imbalance between the
two sides (upstream and downstream heating spots). Since this was the first heating cycle, there was considerable drift in
sample pressure. Subsequent heating at higher starting pressures did not show this large a drift and typically remained within
approximately 2 GPa. (Online version in colour.)

irreversible process modifies the volume of the sample. A close inspection of the MgO diffraction
peaks in figure 2a shows that the thermal expansion is clearly evident and, coupled with the fact
that this is a powder mixture in which the only absorber of the IR laser is ByC, assures us that,
(a) the mixture is homogenous and (b) that the two components have comparable grain sizes.
MgO was hence used to obtain the thermal pressure at high temperatures. A total of nine starting
pressures in the range of 8-50GPa were chosen, and diffraction data were collected between
ambient and 2500K. Higher temperatures were, of course, easier to access at higher pressures
but even at the lowest pressure of 8GPa, the NaCl thermal buffer proved sufficient to stabilize


temperatures of the order of 2200 K over extended periods of time. The one reason for this could
be that the NaCl plates were obtained from an anhydrous sample that was kept inside an argon
glove box and loaded into the DAC inside the glove box. After the NaCl plates were positioned
inside the gasket chamber and on the opposing anvil face, the small sample of BgC + MgO was