baryon asymmetries are: 3 5.5 x 10-™ for n = 10 and ng * 2.1 x 10-” for n = 0.1. Figure is taken from [4]. (Online
version in colour.)

in figure 2 where the Yukawa coupling is shown as a function of ¢ for different choices of n.
The choice of 1 is a parametrization of the trajectory in the (Higgs, Flavon) field space during
the phase transition, which can be determined through a dedicated analysis of tunnelling in a
two-field space [30]. Typically, for a simple polynomial potential, the lighter the flavon, the larger
n can be. On the other hand, for a flavon much heavier than the Higgs, tunnelling will tend to
happen in the flavon direction and, therefore, this will correspond to a small n value. In this case,
EW symmetry breaking happens after most of the flavour structure has already emerged, which
will suppress CP violation from Yukawa variation during the EW phase transition and, therefore,
when sphalerons get out-of-equlibrium. The precise form of the ansatz (3.4) is not fundamental
for the argument we want to make. In fact it does not capture all behaviours encountered in
specific models. However the only crucial feature is that the Yukawa couplings are of order 1
in the symmetric phase and remain large in some fraction of the bubble wall.

As the CP-violating source (3.2) is proportional to the second derivative of the mass parameter,
we expect the source for small (big) 1 to be localized outside (inside) the broken phase. It would,
therefore, seem beneficiary to have a model which would map onto a parametrization with a
small n. As the weak sphaleron is most active in the symmetric phase, the baryon asymmetry can
be augmented by creating the CP asymmetry in front of the bubble wall and, therefore, evading
the suppression from the diffusion through the bubble wall. However, the CP-violating source is
also proportional to the mass parameter and hence every source deep inside the symmetric phase
gets suppressed by the Higgs VEV which is rapidly approaching zero in the symmetric phase.
This is shown on figure 3 focusing on the (Top, Charm) system where we report the results for the