operators, can take a significant and quantifiable influence on the lower mass bound for the ae
Higgs boson—even if we insist on absolute stability of the Fermi vacuum. Within the conventional :
perturbative picture, the standard model appears to be below the conventional lower bound ina [4
metastable but sufficiently long-lived region. This means that the single-scale potential exhibits DN
another global minimum at large fields in addition to the Fermi minimum. a

Though our results clearly shift the boundary between the stable and the metastable parameter [No
region, they, of course, do not exclude the possibility of a metastable potential. Still, there seems .
to be a puzzle: in (2.5), we have shown that the interaction part of the fermion determinant
contributes strictly positively to the scalar potential. As the top-fluctuations dominate near the
lower bound, how can a second deeper minimum be generated?

In fact, for microscopic actions with ¢* bare potentials, this is not possible provided we start
from a well-defined functional integral requiring 42,4 > 0. This is illustrated at the mean-field
level in figure 3a for our simple Yukawa model, where the blue long-dashed line denotes the
bare potenial with a mass parameter fixed such that the effective potential (solid black line) has a
proper single Fermi minimum at v ~ 246 GeV (not well visible on this scale), and 2,4,43,4,---=
0. The red short dashed line denotes (minus) the fermion determinant which at the mean-field
level needs to be subtracted from the bare potential to yield the effective potential. The resulting
effective potential is globally stable with one minimum at the Fermi scale [45].

By contrast, figure 3b starts from a bare action with parameters adjusted such that the bare
potential exhibits a kink (at ¢ ~ 4 x 10° GeV in this example). This bare potential still has only one
minimum at ¢ = 0, but in combination with the contributions from the top-fluctuations (fermion
determinant), the effective potential exhibits two minima, one near the kink position seeded in