and completely determine their dynamics and the physical properties of solidified materials [1-7].
A number of such processes can happen in the presence of a matrix, or layer of mixed state,
that is filled with the solid and liquid phases. A theoretical description of this layer, termed a
‘mush’ or ‘mushy layer’, was given a while back by Hills et al. [8]. They formulated a nonlinear
set of mushy layer equations and solved a much-reduced set of them approximately for the
constrained crystallization regime of a binary system. Shortly thereafter Fowler found a more
complete approximate solution of these equations [9]. The self-similar solidification scenario
has since been described by Worster [10] and Alexandrov and co-workers [11-13] for binary
and ternary systems. Different analytical solutions for the steady-state crystallization conditions
with a mush have also been obtained in a series of papers [14-18]. Some approximate analytical
solutions [19-22] describing the time-dependent mushy layer evolution processes for various
crystallization conditions should be mentioned as well. An important point in all of these studies
lies in the fact that the heat and mass fluxes at the phase transition boundaries were given in
a standard (conductive) form. However, there exist processes where the heat and mass fluxes
should be chosen in convective form. Such situations take place, for instance, when we are dealing
with the evolution of sea ice in the presence of substantial oceanic flows [23-25]. The present paper
is concerned with complete analytical solutions of the mushy layer equations that describe this
crystallization scenario. In addition, we analyse below how possible stochastic fluctuations alter
the deterministic behaviour of the obtained solutions.

2. Theoretical background

Let us consider the process of directional crystallization of a binary mixture (e.g. ice and water or
metallic melt) along the spatial direction z (figure 1). The total phase transition domain is divided
into three parts: solid phase 0 < z < a(t), mushy layer a(t) < z < b(t) and liquid phase z > b(t). Here