was, and is still, the process by which transparent papers called ‘glassine’ are manufactured—the
transparent window in old envelopes. Greaseproof paper is also combined with waxy material, [=
providing a refractive index match, thus making the material transparent. If the scattering regions : S
of wood (the pores) are eradicated through resin infusion, and the scattering elements of the : 2
cell walls, the fibrils, are used appropriately, the production of transparent wood is possible. A 14
paper by Berglund (KTH Royal Institute of Technology) [16] covers this subject, and we were : _
delighted during his talk with the vision of producing a wood-based laser! Other applications of 4
cellulose nanofibres, such as thermoelectric materials, are covered in the paper by Tammelin (VTT : =
Technical Research Centre of Finland) [17]. The subject of composite materials is further explored : 3
by Gindl (BOKU University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences) [18], where it is shown (8

that retaining some of the lignin component of the plant fibre structure assists in the interfacial
interactions with other polymers. This, and the fact that hierarchical and architectural diversity
are important (Bismarck, University of Vienna/Imperial College) [19] for composite materials, is
not surprising because we know they are critical in the function of the original plant material. We
would do well to remember that these are originally biological materials, and our exploitation of
them may be more successful if we learn from Nature’s approach to their use.

So, returning to the natural world, and the place and context of cellulose nanofibres and their
industrial exploitation, we should consider these in a mounting concern over global warming. It
will become more critical for humans to use more sustainable sources of materials, and to move
away from oil-based products. Cellulose production as plant life plays a major part in a balanced
global ecosystem, and it is harvested as bulk or fibre materials. While forests are responsible for
huge uptakes of CO) from the atmosphere, which are more or less balanced by a return flow, there
is a net uptake estimated at 9.3 Gt p.a. (gigatonnes per annum),! about half of which, though,