While it can be shown by direct computations that the exact solutions described in the
previous section satisfy the relevant governing equations (2.12), (2.10) or (2.12), for appropriately
defined pressure distribution functions, it is also necessary to provide a rigorous mathematical
justification that the prescribed flow is dynamically possible. Proving that the mapping (2.2) is a
global diffeomorphism between the Lagrangian labelling variables and the fluid domain ensures
that it is possible to have a three-dimensional, nonlinear motion of the entire fluid body described
by (2.2), characterizing wave-current interactions, whereby fluid particles never collide, and
furthermore they encompass the entire infinite fluid region beneath the free-surface interface.
We describe briefly the approach which was used in [49] to establish the global validity
of (2.2) in solving (2.12); other geophysical scenarios were addressed in [50,51]. Firstly, from
examining its Jacobian matrix, and applying the inverse function theorem, it can be proved that
the mapping (2.2) represents a local diffeomorphism from the Lagrangian variables to the fluid
domain. Additional analytical considerations establish that it is, in fact, globally injective. To
complete the proof, as was first implemented in [3] for Gerstner’s wave, we employ the following
degree-theoretical result, the invariance of domain theorem [52,53], which we state as Theorem 3.1.

Theorem 3.1. If UCR" is open and F:U— R" is a continuous one-to-one mapping, then F: U>
F(U) is a homeomorphism. Furthermore, we have F(aU) = aF(U).

Putting all these components together leads to the following result:

Theorem 3.2 ([49]). The mapping (2.2) is a global diffeomorphism between the Lagrangian labelling
variables and the infinite fluid domain bounded above by the free-surface interface z = n(x, y, t). For ro < 0,
the free surface has a smooth profile, and in the limiting case ro = 0 the surface is smooth except when s = 0,
in which case it is piecewise smooth with upward cusps.