
For the Co/TiOy trilobes, the lower temperature for the onset and the greater extent of
reduction in the 20% wt sample than for the 10% wt sample suggested the presence of a
reduced metal-support interaction in the sample with higher loadings. We propose that the
remaining CoO present exhibits an intimate interaction with TiO2 and which requires a higher
reduction temperature/longer reduction time to form metallic Co. However, this increase in
temperature/time is not expected to be all that higher/longer because most of the Co is present
as metallic Co already. The egg-shell CoO distribution (approx. 150 um in from the sample edge)
seen in the 10% wt sample is more difficult to rationalize; as with the single particle study, this
could be due to the presence of trace amounts of Oz or H2O in the inlet gas which are difficult
to remove completely. Alternatively, because this phenomenon was already seen for the single
particle containing a similar Co loading, this may be a consequence of the reduction process with
the outer parts of the particle seeing more water than the centre. The fact that this distribution is
not seen in the 20% wt Co sample suggests that it is the Co in contact with the TiO2 that is difficult
to reduce and that these Co crystallites are likely to be small; this same phenomenon having been
previously observed for small (less than 7.5nm) Co nano-crystallites on y-Al,O3. For both Co
loadings, the average nano-crystallite size and the spatial distribution is very similar, suggesting a
robust method has been developed for controlling Co nano-crystallite size irrespective of loading.

5. Conclusion

The chemical imaging techniques demonstrated here clearly have much potential for revealing
a more detailed understanding of the correlation between structure and function in structured
materials in catalysis and beyond. In this particular study, it is clear that the information provided
allows for a greater appreciation of the impact of catalyst formulation and potentially how a