is that although the Stokes drift should have a bearing on the mixing, the direction of the Stokes
drift must also be taken into account, because crossing seas and a directionally wide spectrum
will reduce the Stokes drift [75,87,105]. Van Roekel et al. [143] argued that the Stokes drift should
be projected into the direction of the Langmuir cells before the turbulent Langmuir number is
estimated, as misalignment affects the intensity of Langmuir turbulence. McWilliams et al. [144]
also showed that the presence of swell at large angles to the local wind sea would modify the
Langmuir production. This raises the question of how Langmuir turbulence can be parametrized,
since swell is non-local and thus not related to the local wind. This remains an open question,
but Li ef al. [145] showed that a climatology of the enhancement factor € calculated from a global
wave model integration has comparable performance to a run incorporating the wave model
itself, suggesting that the impact of swell is small enough to be ignored, at least to first order.
Li et al. [146] showed that parametrizing the Stokes drift from the wind alone and estimating a
layer-averaged broad-band Stokes profile [105,106] did in fact also yield results comparable to
those from the full wave model.

(ii) Langmuir production in second-moment turbulence closure models

Second-moment closure models in the vein of Mellor & Yamada [147] handle the TKE directly
by parametrizing the terms in the TKE equation [148,149]. As Kantha & Clayson [150] note, this
makes physical sense for the TKE equation because it can be derived from first principles, but the
corresponding equation for the turbulent length scale, or equivalently for the dissipation rate or
turbulent time scale, cannot. Although the results reported are often in reasonable agreement with
large-scale properties such as the mixed-layer depth and surface temperature, it is nevertheless
unsatisfactory to mould the evolution equation for the turbulent length scale on the TKE without
any guiding physical principle. Nevertheless, several attempts have been made at extending the