activity was strongly enhanced by the presence of the catalyst in the discharge area (figure 4)
for a mixture containing 720 ppm NO, 4340 ppm C1, 4.3% Oz, 7.2% HzO and 7.2% CO2 with
helium balance. Up to 50% NOx reduction was observed for the hybrid plasma-—catalyst system
at ambient temperature conditions with the catalyst in the discharge area, while without the
catalyst, a decrease in conversion to 11.5% was obtained when octane was used as a reductant,
and to 4% with toluene. A decrease in the reduction of NO, with the reaction temperature
(250°C) for the octane-SCR highlighted the competitive reactions occurring in this process, i.e.
the partial oxidation of the hydrocarbon (leading to Nz production by NO reduction) and the
complete oxidation of the octane (thus, reduced NOx conversion), and the need to fine-tune
the reaction parameters. At low temperatures the partial oxidation was favoured leading to
NOx conversion, whereas at higher temperatures, the octane was completely combusted and
limited the NO, conversion. Interestingly, it was reported that, when using toluene, an increase
in temperature led to an increase in NOx conversion. This was attributed to the fact that toluene
is less easily oxidized compared with octane and, therefore, partial oxidation occurs over a
wider temperature window. Another benefit of the IPC system was a decrease in the rate of
deactivation compared with the thermal system while maintaining good Np selectivity and low
N2O formation.

The remarkable enhancement in conversion and Ny selectivity was further investigated using
a combined DRIFTS hybrid plasma system. The in situ mechanistic study was performed using a
state-of-the-art cell (figure 5) [25] designed to allow the interaction of the plasma stream with the
surface of the catalyst bed, on which infrared (IR) spectra were simultaneously collected.

The in situ IR measurements provided invaluable information on the adsorbed species in
the presence of plasma, leading to more insights on the mechanisms of the reaction for the