ancestors ancestors [a
DN
Figure 6. Fitness and other characteristics of all = 8 self-replicators before and after evolution. (a) Ancestral fitness of all : 5
replicators. (b) Log mean relative fitness after 2 x 10* updates of evolution. (c) Final genome size after 2 x 10‘ updates of : &

evolution. (d) Number of evolved traits after2 x 10* updates of evolution. Inall plots, fg-replicators are in red and hc-replicators
are in blue. Error bars (black) are twice the standard error of the mean. All plots are sorted in increasing order. (Online version
in colour.)

the he-replicators. In Avida, traits are snippets of code that allow the avidian to gain energy
from the environment, by performing logic operations on binary numbers that the environment
provides (see Methods). Replicators with the fg/gb motifs did evolve more novel traits than
replicators with the hc/rc motifs (figure 6d). In fact, only fg-replicators evolved traits in these
experiments. Finally, we looked at the effect of historical contingency when all 914 replicators
were competed against each other in one population. After 50000 updates, we identify the most
abundant genotype in 200 replicate experiments and reconstruct the line-of-descent to determine
which of the replicators gave rise to it (we call that replicator the ‘progenitor’).

Most replicators did not emerge as the progenitor of life in these experiments (figure 7). Three
genotypes, vywfgxgb, vwvfgxgb and wvvfgxgb, outcompete the other genotypes in 37, 49 and
45 populations out of 200, respectively, or in about 65% of the competitions. The other progenitors
of life were not distributed randomly among the other self-replicators either; most of them were
present in the same clusters as the three genotypes from above. Thus, while history is a factor in
which of the replicators becomes the seed of all life in these experiments, more than half the time
the progenitor is one of the three highest fitness sequences. Thus, life predominantly originates