that occur close to the dynamical instability or the MI transition, the experiments have been :=
carried out in the low velocity regime, after a careful characterization of those instabilities.

(a) Large oscillations: dynamical instability and Mott transition >

The observation of the critical velocity for dynamical instability has been employed to determine ae
the critical interaction strength for the onset of the MI both in the presence of a strong lattice [49] aon
and in the presence of a weak one [50]. [5
Three examples of the time evolution of the position of the momentum distribution peak p, ,
for a fixed lattice depth s = 2—in units of °°K recoil energy—and three different values of the
scattering length are shown in figure 4a. An initial increase of p up to a certain critical value
Pc is followed by a subsequent decrease. This behaviour can be analysed in the frame of a
phase slip based model [31,49,50]. The observed dissipation, in fact, is induced by phase slip
mechanism: at short times, for p < pc, the oscillation is only weakly damped; at larger times the
phase slip rate diverges and the system enters a dynamically unstable regime, characterized by
a strong damping. The value of p where the experimental data points deviate with respect to
the theoretical curve can be identified with the critical momentum pz, for the occurrence of the
dynamical instability [49,50]. By increasing the scattering length, the damping rate at short times
increases, as the phase slip nucleation rate increases, while pc decreases.
At the superfluid—MI transition, the critical momentum for dynamical instability is expected to
vanish. In figure 4 is shown the behaviour of p; as a function of a for two different lattice depths.
For increasing a, the measured p, initially decreases and then reaches a finite constant value.
The onset of the plateau can be interpreted as the critical scattering length a- to enter the
Mott regime for the commensurate regions of the system. Despite the strong inhomogeneity of
the systems, in fact, at sufficiently strong interactions the experiment observes a suppression