exists a certain time window in which the choice of the a's really change the behaviours of the
functions. More concretely, if we add a phase in the coefficients defining the original vector %, we
may observe quite large oscillations. Then, interference terms in Yq make it, in general, quite difficult
to get a decision. In particular, this is the effect of the relative phases in the interference coefficients
(figure 1b,d), while if these coefficients have all the same phases, a decision can be reached quite
soon (figure 1a,c). However, if we wait for a sufficiently long time, in both cases we reach the
same final values of the DFs: the asymptotic values of the DFs only depend on the state of the
environment, and not on the particular choice of %.
These conclusions are confirmed by other choices of the state on the environment. For instance,
we plot again the DFs for the choices Cy,1 (figure 2a,c) and C,,2 (figure 2b,d) and for the same choice
of the parameters as in figure 1, while the state of the environment is chosen different, because we
take now N; = Np = 1. We see that there is no particular difference between the two DFs nj(t) and
np(t) (this is possibly due to the fact that Nj = Nz). However, adding the phases to the a) creates,
again, a lot of noise in the DM process, noise which disappears, but only after a sufficiently long
time.
It is useful to stress that, changing further the parameters of the Hamiltonian, does not really
affect our conclusions. Indeed, figure 3 shows that even with different choices of the parameters
in H, the choice C2 with jrex = 100 (rather than jrex = 500, as in the previous figures), phases create
noise, and again, this noise becomes smaller and smaller after some time.
In this case, the existence of an asymptotic limit for the DFs is less evident, but this is only due
to the small time interval considered. It is not hard to imagine that we could still recover a clear
asymptotic value for ;(t) if we consider a time interval larger than just [0, 0.5]. However, we will
not do this here in order to keep the range of the figures uniform.
So far, we have taken Hcoop = 0. The same behaviour is observed if we take Hcoop #0: we could
check (but we do not include the plots here) that the choice Cy,2 is again much more noisy than