distribution of LBVs on the sky and found them to be surprisingly isolated from O-type stars.
One of the figures from ST15 is reproduced here in figure 2, which is a plot of the cumulative
distribution of projected separation on the sky to any nearby O-type star for various classes of
stars—early /mid/late O, LBVs, WR (WNH, WN, WC), RSGs and B[e] supergiants. This is for
targets in the LMC/SMC, which avoid the large distance uncertainty and potentially large line-
of-sight reddening for Milky Way targets (although it is harder to quantify the statistics, LBVs in
the Milky Way seem similarly isolated and tend to avoid young clusters [28]).

ST15 [28] concluded that the results were inconsistent with expectations for the traditional
picture of LBVs in single-star evolution [7], wherein LBVs are descended from very massive main-
sequence O-type stars, and where LBVs are the key agent that provides the required mass loss to
drive them into the WR phase. In particular, ST15 [28] found that LBVs were far from early O-
type stars, and were in fact more dispersed from O-type stars on the sky than WR stars, making
it impossible for the observed population of LBVs to turn into the observed population of WR
stars. They concluded that, instead of the traditional view wherein LBVs descend from the most
massive single stars, many LBVs are likely to be the product of binary evolution, where stars are
spun-up, chemically enriched, and rejuvenated by mass transfer after a delay, and possibly kicked
by their companion’s SN explosion [28]. In this view, LBVs are essentially evolved massive blue
stragglers.

What about selection effects? Most selection effects go the wrong way, if one is trying
to resurrect the traditional view. There is no conceivable bias that would prevent one from
recognizing bright LBVs in known star clusters; for a young cluster, LBVs in the traditional view
have finished core H burning and are somewhat more luminous than O-type stars that still remain
on the main sequence, but LBVs have moved to the right on the HR diagram. At these cooler