It is important to understand the meaning of non-negativity here. Of course, many physical i
measurements, such as mass, length or concentration, are by their very nature non-negative. [Ss
However, any kind of non-negativity is not sufficient for a successful application of NMF. What [fF
seems to be important in practice is that the distribution of the measurements is such that zero :
has a special meaning, in the sense that the distribution is qualitatively somewhat similar to an
exponential distribution. In other words, there should be many observations very close to zero.
If you consider measurements of masses that have the average of 1kg with an approximately
Gaussian distribution and a standard deviation of 0.1kg, it is completely meaningless to use the
‘non-negativity’ of that data. On the other hand, if one computes quantities such as (Fourier)
spectra, or histograms, non-negativity may be an important aspect of the data [88] because values
in high-dimensional spectra and histograms are often concentrated near zero.

In some cases, such non-negativity constraints in fact enable estimation of the model [89,90]
without any assumptions on non-Gaussianity. However, the conditions are not often fullfilled,
and in practice, the performance of the methods can be poor. That is why it has been proposed
to combine non-negativity with non-Gaussianity, in particular the widespread form of non-
Gaussianity called sparseness [91]. Such NMF with sparseness constraints can be seen as a
version of the ICA model where the mixing matrix is constrained to be non-negative, and the
independent components are modelled by a distribution that is non-negative and sparse (such
as the exponential distribution). Furthermore, a similar sparse non-negative Bayesian prior on
the elements of the mixing matrix can be assumed. If these assumptions are compatible with
the actual structure of the data, estimation of the model can be improved. A closely related
‘non-negative ICA’ approach was proposed by Plumbley [92].

See Plumbley et al. [93] for a detailed review, and Cichocki et al. [89] for further work including