with the precipitation mechanism may play an important role in the preferential orientation
of hydrides under stress [62]. More recently, other authors have quantified the density of
dislocations in zirconium hydride, which seems to be higher than those in the zirconium
matrix [80,81].

Thermodynamic parameters play a crucial role in the dissolution/precipitation mechanisms
of hydride phases in zirconium alloys. Thermodynamic investigations on a global scale [11],
consisting of thermal cycling of samples with different hydrogen contents using differential
scanning calorimetry (DSC) for a large number of cycles, show that both dissolution and
re-precipitation temperatures increase with the number of cycles. It was observed that the
dissolution temperature is higher than that of precipitation and is independent of the hydrogen
content in the range investigated. This difference in temperature can be discussed in terms
of energy. In fact, many authors have been measuring the activation energy, the entropy and
enthalpy for these processes in different zirconium alloys [82-85] by performing thermal-cycling
measurements with a global approach (over a large density of hydrides). According to these
authors, the dissolution enthalpy is slightly higher than that of precipitation for many different
zirconium alloys. However, the same kind of experiment performed in zircaloy-4 containing
gamma-hydrides shows a larger difference in enthalpy (28 kJ mol!) [72] between dissolution and
precipitation, where the dissolution enthalpy is higher than the precipitation one. Mathematically,
the difference between both enthalpies is only dependent on the stored elastic and plastic
energies. The experimental difference observed can thus be attributed to misfit dislocations.

TEM in situ measurements in the same kind of sample confirm this hypothesis (figure 2).
In fact, misfit dislocations were observed at the y-ZrH/Zr interface at 300K before heating
(figure 2b). In the same figure, the depinning of a misfit dislocation is observed at 700K when