content in the range investigated. This difference in temperature can be discussed in terms
of energy. In fact, many authors have been measuring the activation energy, the entropy and
enthalpy for these processes in different zirconium alloys [82-85] by performing thermal-cycling
measurements with a global approach (over a large density of hydrides). According to these
authors, the dissolution enthalpy is slightly higher than that of precipitation for many different
zirconium alloys. However, the same kind of experiment performed in zircaloy-4 containing
gamma-hydrides shows a larger difference in enthalpy (28 kJ mol!) [72] between dissolution and
precipitation, where the dissolution enthalpy is higher than the precipitation one. Mathematically,
the difference between both enthalpies is only dependent on the stored elastic and plastic
energies. The experimental difference observed can thus be attributed to misfit dislocations.

TEM in situ measurements in the same kind of sample confirm this hypothesis (figure 2).
In fact, misfit dislocations were observed at the y-ZrH/Zr interface at 300K before heating
(figure 2b). In the same figure, the depinning of a misfit dislocation is observed at 700K when
the dissolution is completed. This means that part of the hydrogen atoms from the dissolved
precipitate are driven away from the precipitation region and are no more available to re-
precipitate [86]. In terms of dissolution temperature range, slight differences may be observed
between an in situ heating experiment (where a single precipitate is observed at a local approach)
and DSC cycling (a large number of precipitates involved in a global approach). By TEM, the
beginning of the dissolution process is observed at temperatures lower (figure 2a) than that
indicated by the heating rate curve in figure 2c at a global scale. However, images show that
the hydride main volume dissolves in the temperature range of figure 2c. Similar results were
obtained by in situ TEM performed in zircaloy-4 samples richer in H, where only FCC 5-hydride
precipitates were observed. This indicates a good agreement between global measurements (DSC)
and in situ TEM observations at a local scale.