the roads. Public—private initiatives such as the EU’s €38 m HyFIVE programme [31], which aims
to deploy 185 FCEVs with support from five global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), is
an encouraging step towards the commercialization of FCEVs.

However, vehicle costs are still rather high. Toyota’s Mirai (312 mile range) was launched in
the UK in 2016 at a price of £66000 (and US$58500 in the USA in 2015) with the main costs
being attributed to the fuel cell powertrain and the hydrogen storage system. These costs are
currently higher than both standard internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs) and the most
advanced plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) of a similar size. In the case of PEVs, Tesla announced
the Tesla model-3 vehicle, which has a driving range of 215 miles, to be in series production
in 2017 for a price of US$35 000 for the cheapest option [32]. However, FCEVs are predicted to
become affordable at scale, and cost competitive with ICEVs with an annual production of 0.5-1
million FCEVs [33-36]. In fact, after 2025, a McKinsey & Co. analysis [34] predicts that the total
cost of ownership converges for all types of vehicles (FCEV, PEVs and ICEVs) as costs of these
vehicles benefit from learning and economies of scale. Another study [37] goes even further to
show that if the carbon price is high, then the FCEVs become progressively cheaper than the
conventional ICEVs.

While there is clearly much uncertainty regarding how the competition between the types of
vehicles will evolve with customers, it is likely that multiple low-carbon options will exist in the
market with PEVs used as smaller vehicles for urban driving and FCEVs used as larger vehicles
for long-distance driving and fast refuelling. See Gréger et al. [38] for a comparative technical
and cost analysis, as well as initial reports on customer preferences. The use of fuel cells in larger
vehicles is already being demonstrated by the growing number of programmes deploying fuel
cell electric buses (FCEBs) for clean public transport [39] in several pioneering cities around the