paper showed that both hydrogen and fuel cells could have a credible role in heat provision
in the future. It concludes that existing gas networks could be converted to deliver hydrogen
instead of natural gas, with heat produced using hydrogen boilers or micro-CHP fuel cells. More
recently projects have been commissioned in the UK to further investigate the potential of using
hydrogen for heating, including an engineering appraisal of converting the natural gas grid to
supply hydrogen in Leeds, the third biggest city in UK. This study, known as the H21 Leeds City
Gate report [17], concludes that conversion of the gas grid to hydrogen is technically feasible
and economically viable. The study shows that the conversion can be done on a regional level
over the summer period with low-cost changes to appliances. While there is a precedent for
such a transition programme in the UK, with the conversion of town gas (a mixture of 50%
hydrogen with methane (CH4) and carbon monoxide) to natural gas in the 1960s and 1970s,
today’s gas network is far more complex and requires the collaboration of government, different
gas providers, local authorities and customers. In fact, customer acceptance of a new heating
technology is very important and could be a significant barrier when changes are required.
Natural gas is widely used in many developed (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development) countries. For example, in the UK and the Netherlands gas boilers are used in 80%
of houses [35], and studies in the UK show a strong customer preference for using gas boilers,
which are perceived as safer, cheaper, more effective and easy to control than their alternatives
[60,61]. Furthermore, the equipment that already exists could be converted from using natural
gas to using hydrogen, enabling a user experience similar to that provided by natural gas, and
without the need for disruptive refurbishment of home heating infrastructures or expensive
reinforcement of the electricity network [17,18].

Subsequent reports support the assertion that replacing CH4 with hydrogen in the grid in
areas with an established gas infrastructure could potentially be more practical and economically