the Oort Cloud on long-period orbits. Credit EOS/L. Calcada. (b,c) Images of two Manx comets near perihelion showing extremely 3
low-level activity, approximately 10° times less active than low-activity JF comets and 10’—10° times less active than typical LP

comets at similar distances. (Online version in colour.)

The range of CO abundances varies significantly, ranging from less than 1% to 30% relative to
water. Of note is the fact that in the group of CO-rich comets, there are no SP comets—all are LP
comets. Figure 12 shows that while the comets with the most CO are LP comets, they are not the
ones known to be making their first passage through the inner solar system. This may suggest that
this is not an artefact of evolution, rather a native property of these comets; however more data are
clearly needed. It should be noted that many of the dynamically new comets on their first passage
through the inner solar system are CO-depleted. It is possible, however, that many of the most
brilliant historical comets (figure 1) were in fact also CO-rich. This wide distribution of the most
volatile cometary molecules within the LP comets argues again for wide scale dynamical mixing
in the early solar system—i.e. that the classes we see today are not closely tied to well-defined
formation locations.

In recent years, new types of comets have been discovered which are providing clues to
early solar system dynamical processes and the distribution of volatiles in the protoplanetary
disc. One of these classes is the MBCs. These are objects residing today in the main asteroid
belt, dynamically asteroidal, but with clear signatures of activity that is likely driven by water-
ice sublimation [73,74]. The first, 133P/Elst-Pizarro, was discovered in 1996, but these were not
recognized as a class until 2006 with the discovery of two more [75]. It is likely that many may
have formed in situ, and that the entire outer asteroid belt is wet, with extant ice existing today.
Water was clearly a key ingredient in this region of the early solar system as seen by the extensive