Figure 3. ROLIS image of the Agilkia landing site before touch-down. The image was taken 28.9 m above the surface and covers
an area of 31 m across. Two terrain types—smooth and rough—as well as boulders are seen on the ground. The dark structure
in the upper right corner shows a part of the landing gear. Copyright: ESA/Rosetta/Philae/ROLIS/DLR.

surface of 67P. The Agilkia terrain as a whole is not fully covered by very fine grains (sizes below
0.4mm), because the surface granularity does not appear to be uniformly masked by powder-
like dust at sub-pixel resolution. This indicates that the particles returning to Agilkia experienced
size selection effects; larger grains (mm to cm scale and above) lifted up by cometary activity
have fallen back to the surface, while smaller dust particles emitted from the surface mostly with
escape velocity and faster were deposited at a much lower rate, or not at all.

Indications for aeolian-like features close to larger surface entities exist, suggesting surface
transport of material. In fact, the smooth and rough terrains in the ROLIS images are seen as a
clear indication [43] that so far unidentified material transport and sorting processes must be at
play on the surface of not only Agilkia, but at many more regions on 67P (see also [44]). Although
the air-fall scenario allows the surface regolith to originate from different surface terrains with
possibly different physical properties, the surface reflectivity in ROLIS images of Agilkia appears
to be rather uniform, which extends a similar finding from orbiter data [45] to a finer order of
granularity. No fracture lines are seen in the Agilkia images from ROLIS; if present they may
be completely covered by the surface regolith. The analysis of terrain outcrops in the ROLIS
images together with the interpretation of digital terrain data of the site provide a first idea about
the thickness of the surface regolith at Agilkia, i.e. up to 50cm in the smooth terrain and 1 to
2m for the rough terrain [43]. It is noted that underneath the regolith layers the surface may
display a different structure across the Agilkia site. This is fully in line with the analysis of the
footprint images from the Philae touch-down at Agilkia [13]: an at least 20cm depth for the