moment-closure-based SIR model on heterogeneous clustered networks of heterogeneous links
according to the Eames and Keeling model [25] and the Volz model [26,27], and then performed
some numerical tests of the clustered PGF model, in contrast to simulation and other ordinary
differential equation (ODE) approaches [31].

An important issue of interest in epidemiological research is the behaviour of competing
pathogens. In many circumstances, a variety of strains with different infections, toxins and
mobilities can exist together and compete for the same susceptible population. On the one hand,
different strains can lead to different infectious states, and a conversion between different states
may occur. On the other hand, one pathogen sometimes generates many strains with different
spreading features. Competitive multi-virus propagation shows very rich behaviour, beyond that
of single-virus propagation, hence a detailed investigation of multi-virus epidemic dynamics is
required [32-35]. In fact, this occurs not only in the process of epidemic spreading; information
transmission also shows competition with other information in the same population [36,37].
In [33], competing strains in heterogeneous networks were studied, and the existence of an
epidemic threshold in the presence of other strains in the susceptible-infected—susceptible (SIS)
model was confirmed by using the heterogeneous mean-field approach. In [38], the Miller—Volz
model [28-30] was used to study two competing products within the same market. Their model
shows that, if the two products have the same word-of-mouth marketing rate on the network,
then the ratio of their market shares is exactly the same as the ratio of their advertisement
rates. In these competitive spreading models, two or more viruses are exclusive: a node cannot
be infected by two viruses simultaneously, that is to say, if a node (individual) is infected
by one virus, it cannot be infected by the other one. This type of model has implications for
many applications, such as product adoption (e.g. Apple versus Android smart phones), virus
antidote propagation, opposing opinions about a subject, where people are for, against, or neutral,