obsession, anxiety, envy, resentment, fear. We make a small personal world in which we
remain enclosed. Great art is liberating, it enables us to see and take pleasure in what is not
ourselves. Literature stirs and satisfies our curiosity, it interests us in other people and other
scenes, and helps us to be tolerant and generous [59].

The artistic products of imagination are significant, therefore, and not least for their power to
educate the clear-sighted operation of outward-turned imagination, over inward-turned fantasy.
Fiction can open the reader to other points of view, not simply in the sense of furnishing new
ideas to consider, but also in the sense of educating us that other people are genuinely other, and
occupy alternative vantage points. As Martha Nussbaum has written, even something as basic as
being a competent citizen requires the ‘narrative imagination’ to be able ‘to think what it might be
like to be in the shoes of a person different from oneself’ [60]. This has traditionally been fostered
through literary fiction and other forms of storytelling, as an integral part of education [61].

This is primarily a philosophical essay, and it is not the purpose of this paper to explore the role
that works of creative imagination might play in relation to climate change and material demand
reduction. That there is a role for them, however, is clear, because simply presenting the facts of
the case has not been enough to win thoroughgoing assent: not, for instance, in the USA [62].!4
One response would be to use imaginative forms to present an anticipated vision of the potentially
cataclysmic results of further climate change, as seen in the sub-genre of ‘climate change fiction’,
which is often apocalyptic in tone [64]. There is an argument to be made, however, that the human
will is better stirred to radical change by positive attraction than by negative aversion. Such a
proposition lies behind Augustine of Hippo’s provocatively framed moral injunction of Dilige, et
quod vis fac: ‘love [rightly], and do what you will’ [65]. Changes of behaviour, on this view, stem
