productive at smaller heliocentric distances (approx. 1-3 AU).

Note from the perspective of a comet dust observer and analyst: the possibility of incorporation
of cometary materials is called out as probably not part of the chondrule-formation story as
told by meteoriticists [82], partly because the evidence of primitive cometary material is easily
obliterated and without hard evidence the connection is not testable. We note that the regimes of
high oxygen fugacity needed to form type II olivine are sought after by enhancing the dust/gas
ratio by 10* or by bringing in water ice (100-500x for CR type II chondrites). GEMS are abundant
in some cometary samples and GEMS transform to Fe-rich olivine when heated at greater than
or equal to 900°C, so cometary materials could be a source of precursor materials for chondrule
formation. The mere size difference between submicrometre-sized GEMS and 210m sized Fe-
rich olivine grains have been one argument against this idea. Shocks may compact aggregates and
in fact this is required to have the correct opacity for the fast cooling rates needed for chondrule-
formation in shocks [254]. Also, some cometary dust collections like UCAMMs have abundant
carbon, which is suggested to be a critical reducing agent to drive the oxygen fugacity down in
regions of type I chondrule formation. We suggest that cometary primitive materials be not only
considered to be possible products of chondrule-formation but also considered as contributors to
the precursor reservoir of type II chondrule-formation. The diversity of primitive matter in comets
is considerable but the diversity is not uniform across all cometary dust collections /samples.

In conclusion, we ask: Where in cometary IR spectra are the larger (5-30 1m) single Fe-rich
crystals that are the focus of Stardust discussions and chondrite type II olivine matrix grains? Is
comet 81P’s late formation a rarity or the norm?

Data accessibility. NASA ADS has ‘On-line Data’ links for Spitzer IRSA archive data in figure 18 for [305,306].