thermal dissociation events. In order to back out the kinetics, we therefore used an accelerated free
energy sampling technique called boxed molecular dynamics (BXD) [23,24,36]. The idea in BXD is
to define a collective variable (or set of collective variables) which describes reaction progress, and
then splice it into a set of ‘boxes’, which essentially correspond to hard-wall potential boundaries.
A box is defined as a region of configuration space that lies between two boundaries; within
any given box, a trajectory runs on the unbiased PES. If the trajectory crosses a particular box
boundary, a velocity inversion operation [36] is performed to keep it within the specified box. BXD
simulations are run by locking the system within a set of adjacent ‘boxes’, and then performing
statistical analysis of the time spent in each box, and the relative number of hits at the boundaries
that define the box. These quantities define box-to-box rate coefficients, which can then be used
to calculate a potential of mean force, which is independent of the boundary locations. Choosing
BXD boundaries is analogous to the process of specifying umbrellas (in umbrella sampling). A
key difference is the fact that umbrella sampling requires two parameters per umbrella (location
and force constant), whereas BXD requires only one parameter (location). While the latest BXD
algorithms are able to adaptively determine the most computationally optimal box boundary
locations [36] without requiring user specification, this capability was not available at the time
the work described in this paper was carried out, and BXD boundaries were specified the ‘old-
fashioned’ way (via user trial and error).

In order to calculate thermal dissociation rate coefficients, we performed BXD simulations
from 700 K to 1300 K in 100 K intervals. The collective variable which we used to define progress
along the -CH3 dissociation coordinate was the C-C bond distance. This coordinate was split
into user-specified boxes of varying sizes, depending on the C-C bond distance: between 1.4 and
2A the boxes were 0.1A wide; between 2 and 3A the boxes were 0.2A wide; and between 3.3
and 4.0A the system was defined by a single box. Simulations were then run in each of these