simultaneously. As the frequency w changes, the transmission amplitude performs the circular
trajectory shown here. For far off-resonant wavelengths, the transmission amplitude amounts to
1 and the phases have to be the same, as both parts of the spectrum are not influenced by the
resonance. In this diagram, it is very instructive as to which physical variables change if certain
parameters vary. We will, therefore, subsequently use this construction. For the Lorentz case, the
above mentioned symmetry about the real axis also becomes very clear in the complex plane.
The circle is centred on the real axis, beginning and ending at the same point t= 1 for zero and
infinite energy.

This symmetry is broken as soon as additional scattering phases change the value of the
phase a away from 7/2. This occurs in the case of the excitation of waveguide modes in
our sample. Because of the interference between the direct and indirect transmission channels
and because of the fact that the indirect transmission exhibits an additional phase, the overall
transmission becomes asymmetric. For sample A, the extinction and phase evolutions, as derived
by the S-matrix, are again shown in figure 10a and directly compared with the result obtained
with the oscillator model in figure 10b. The parameters used for the model were |fwo| = 0.8,
Awe =lc/Ewc = 798.5nm, Iwo = 10 meV, awc = 0.42 and gp = 0. The good agreement between
the two representations is evident. In figure 10c, both results are plotted together in one single
complex plane, so that direct comparison is possible. This figure is especially significant as it
shows that the trajectory of the transmission amplitude still performs a circle in the complex
plane. However, for the S-matrix result, we find an additional phase which causes the rotation
about the circle origin. Therefore, the additional phase introduced in equation (5.1) is justified.
We demonstrate the usefulness of this concept in ยง6b.

For two examples (samples A and C) the complex diagram of the measured transmission is