employed to route the radiation of the driven dipole to a preferred direction. In figure 2a, we
show a much simpler while widely employed configuration of two coupled EDs with 7/2 phase
difference and 4/4 displacement. A simple phase analysis reveals that the radiated fields of
the two EDs interfere constructively and destructively towards the right and left, respectively,
leading to a highly asymmetric scattering pattern compared with that of an individual ED
(figure 2a) [20]. This is exactly the mechanism of the so-called anti-reflection coatings in
optics [15,16].

A generalized version of the ED pair is that with the phase difference and displacement
properly tuned, then the constructive scattering enhancement can be observed at other radiation
angles. An example of this is shown in figure 2b, where a pair of silver and gold discs can
be viewed as two coupled EDs, and they can route light of different colours into different
preferred directions [21]. This occurs due to the fact that for different wavelengths the phase
accumulated through the optical path and the intrinsic phase difference (induced by different
complex polarizabilities for two different material-dependent plasmon resonances [16]) between
two EDs of the metallic discs vary, resulting in the functionality of flexible colour routing. A more
recent exploitation of the concept of ED pairs is shown in figure 2c, where it is demonstrated
that incident circularly polarized light of different handedness can be coupled to surface plasmon
polariton (SPP) modes propagating in two opposite directions [22]. The mechanism of such a
helicity-dependent propagation is exactly the same as that shown in figure 2a, while here the
circular polarization of incident waves provides two perpendicular metal-bar EDs in each unit
cell with an absolute 2/2 phase difference. A different handedness can be employed to flip the
sign of the phase difference and thus change the direction of SPP waves. Alternatively, such a
helicity-dependent phase can be interpreted as a Pancharatnam-Berry phase [25-27], based on
which many other more sophisticated nanophotonics structures can be designed to enable more