and, via variable transformations, the exchange of leading balance as a function of the increasing
scale of the momentum transporting motions with wall-normal distance. These analyses evidence
the existence of an underlying hierarchy (distribution) of scaling layers, W(y), whose widths
physically represent the characteristic size of the turbulent motions responsible for momentum
transport, which is dominated in the wallward direction, i.e. by the negative uv motions, or
uv<, herein. The y variation of W, dW/dy, is of central importance, as it is analytically shown
to approach a constant on the domain where the leading-order balance solely involves inertial
terms. In the context of the mean momentum equation, this is the origin of distance-from-the-
wall scaling that underlies a logarithmic mean velocity profile, and recent empirical studies at
high Reynolds number support the onset of logarithmic dependence on the inertial domain as
specified by the present theory (e.g. [5,16]).

The features of the theory most relevant to this study relate to the fact that the coordinate
stretching function, ¢, that yields an invariant form of the mean momentum equation across
the entire hierarchy of scaling layers is analytically given by ¢ =dy/dW, and thus this scaling
parameter approaches constancy, ¢ > ¢¢, as the Reynolds number tends to infinity. Indeed, the


theory specifies that $7 =1/«, where « is the leading coefficient in the logarithmic mean profile
equation (i.e. the von Karman constant). By employing a valid but discrete construction of the
layer hierarchy, Klewicki ef al. [11] show that the quantity ¢2/(¢- + 1) approaches a constant
a on the inertial domain, and through a number of empirical measures show that a equals
unity to within a couple of per cent, i.e. within the measurement uncertainty. Remarkably, the
condition a =1 indicates that ¢. =, where  =(1+ V5)/2 is the golden ratio. Geometrically,
a =1 corresponds to an extended version of distance-from-the-wall scaling. It requires both a