
e 16 400 8.8 0.28 55 91 FP

Insights regarding the behaviour of the time fraction are gained by considering the lengths of
the negative uv motions, say, L-. Here, the negative time segments (t~) are converted into spatial
lengths by employing the local mean velocity at the corresponding wall location, ie. Le =t-U(y).
Note that the time fraction is the same as the length fraction and is independent of the convection
velocity used. Additionally, the relevant L< in the present case is observed to be less than 5/10,
and hence is hardly affected by the use of Taylor’s frozen turbulence hypothesis [20]—even if it
were an issue. The average of these lengths in inner units (Lt) is presented in figure 2 on log-
log axes, where the lighter (grey) symbols are outside the inertial domain. Clearly, (Lt) increases
with distance from the wall. In the inertial region, the average length increases approximately as
(Lt) ~ (yt)0-382, In fact, the power-law exponent is curiously close to 1/: @*, as indicated by the
solid line in the figure. We note that the power law has a range that seems to extend beyond
y/5 =0.15.

As an interesting aside, we note that the average lengths of u signal, both positive and negative,
have been investigated by Sreenivasan and co-workers (e.g. [21,22]). It turns out that the average
length is proportional to the Taylor microscale, and this is true for any random signal that obeys
a Gaussian probability density function. In the inertial region or log region of the turbulent
boundary layer, the Taylor microscale is proportional to (y+)'/. Figure 2 also shows a line of slope
1/2 (dashed) for comparison. Evidently, (Lt) follows a different scaling. In fact, it will be made
clear later (in figure 3) that the probability density function (PDF) of the uv signal is far from being
Gaussian, ruling out the expectation of a (y+)'/? scaling. Furthermore, we observe that the signal
spends a large portion of its time at values close to zero. This is likely to cause some uncertainty in