a physical phase mask, but an SLM [14]. The term SLM is used for several types of systems
for wavefront shaping, such as adaptive deformable mirrors and digital micromirror devices,
where actuators or membranes are moved by electric or magnetic fields, or for a liquid-crystal-
based system. The latter are miniaturized liquid-crystal displays (LCDs), which can dynamically
influence the phase of light going through or being reflected from the panel when illuminated
with light of a certain polarization. The active area typically is of the order of 2cm? with up to
full high-definition display resolution. The micrometre-sized pixels are addressed individually
by a voltage, to create a phase shift in the range of 27 or more. Parallel-aligned (PAL) liquid-
crystal panels allow for pure phase-only modulation, i.e. without changing the polarization of the
incoming linearly polarized light. The phase masks can typically be refreshed at a 60 Hz rate; only
ferro-electric SLMs typically allow for switching at kHz rates, but only between two phase values.

A first important difference from the idealistic set-up arises from the fact that SLMs are
typically not transmissive but reflective, which leads to back-folded optical set-ups. Moreover,
the Fourier filtering is mostly not carried out ‘on axis’, as depicted in figure 8, but one modifies
the set-up to an ‘off-axis’ configuration [28,36], where—in order to get a cleaner image—one adds
a blazed grating, i.e. a sawtooth phase structure where the phase rises linearly from 0 to 27 within
one grating period, which has the property to (ideally) diffract an incoming plane wave into only
one direction. When using an SLM, the blazed grating can be implemented by simply superposing
the sawtooth phase pattern to the phase mask used for Fourier filtering modulo 27. Its function is
to send the image-carrying wave towards the camera, while the undiffracted background coming
out at the angle of specular reflection, which contains no useful information on the sample, is
blocked (figure 8). Especially for SLMs of limited diffraction efficiency, this improves the quality
of the image, by increasing the contrast and suppressing the bright zero-order spot without
discarding a substantial amount of light.