equivalent, within his formulation, to saying that the ice is impermeable. In his experiments, [4
he immersed a sea ice sample in fluid and measured changes in fluid volume with temperature. : 2
He then used these total fluid volume changes to calculate thermal expansion coefficients. This : g
experimental set-up makes no allowance for the possibility that brine and air may be expelled into 1m

the confining fluid, and the confining fluid may be impelled into the ice [1]. In Malmgren’s model,
the volumetric effects of phase changes are entirely accommodated within the ice matrix, and
therefore saline ice shows the atypical thermal properties discussed in the previous paragraph.
In situ observations [5] show that the average salinity of ice sheets remains virtually constant for
the period of observations despite the prevalence of brine drainage networks and brine corrosion
tubes that develop when the sheet warms.

Cox [6] revisited Malmgren’s assumptions, and proposed that ice and brine are in fact free
to expand and contract independently (this is equivalent to assuming that the ice is infinitely
permeable). In Cox’s formulation, phase changes are accommodated by brine drainage (or by
brine being impelled into the ice) and so have no effect on the thermal expansion coefficient. He
therefore proposes that the volumetric thermal expansion of saline ice is the same as that of fresh
ice: around 1.5 x 10-4 K~!. Cox’s model and Malmgren’s model therefore represent two ends of a
spectrum that depends on sea ice permeability.

Later experiments give further insight. Johnson & Metzner [1] conducted a series of
experiments on the linear thermal expansion of cylindrical ice samples taken from a sheet of
first-year congelation sea ice in Harrison Bay, Alaska. They used a Michelson interferometer type
laser dilatometer, along with a temperature control unit and computer-controlled data acquisition.
They worked on two sets of samples, both with 38mm diameter: (i) 2 ppt saline ice samples,