proportionate to the institutions’ betweenness centrality, so that the size of the type indicates : S
an institution’s relative importance in connecting other institutions in the discussion). Second, 3
the institutions with the highest betweenness centrality are those who stand to gain from data’s :8
increased availability to research and policymakers in terms of their funding, status or influence. : =
The diagram can be interpreted as a negotiation between a group of key players over what should 5m

constitute practices of responsible data sharing, with each key player largely convening its own
discussion community in an effort to define the emerging frameworks and practices. Crossover
between communities occurs in the case of mobile operators (Orange, Telenor and Telefonica),
academic bodies and civil society organizations. Also remarkable is the extent to which the
conversation focuses on mobile data, as seen by the absence (or peripheral nature so that they
were invisible to this research) of other producers of data, such as governments, Internet search
and social media firms. This is in line with the fact that the conversation is largely about data from
LMICs, where mobile operators are the key actors in collecting and potentially sharing data.

The high-level international actors that feature in Figure 1 demonstrate that there is much
to play for in this debate, where funding and status potentially attach to becoming a facilitator
or intermediary. Alliances between international bodies and academic research groups bring
funding and status with them, and countries also stand to benefit: for example, both the Dutch
Foreign Ministry and The Hague’s city administration fund Leiden’s data governance discussions
as a way to increase the Netherlands’ international profile as promoting humanitarian innovation.
When initial calls for data to be made more available did not result in large-scale data sharing,
particularly by mobile operators, discussions towards the creation of ethical frameworks too!
centre stage as a strategy to present a coherent set of community standards that would make data
proprietors more comfortable sharing data.