constructed for time block along the trajectory. The structure of the largest cluster obtained in each time-window is represented
in the separate boxes. The secondary structures (B-sheets) are highlighted in yellow.

To demonstrate the capability of our computational tool, we have performed LBMD
simulations of the A2 domain subject to shear flow using the standard OPEP model, timestep
1.5 fs and lattice resolution of 3 A. In this preliminary test, the shear rate used in the simulations is
orders of magnitude higher than the physiological condition (10! versus 10° s~!). This extreme
value allowed us to monitor unfolding events at the nanosecond timescale.

The A2 domain under the effect of the elongational component of the shear flow starts to
disassemble, see the pictorial representation in figure 4. The first unfolding step interests the
peripheral regions of the domains highlighted by the red and black circles. This is caused by
the disassembling of the protein hydrophobic core formed by six B strands (816263B4B5B6). In fact,
the first unfolding interests B56, and at the other extreme, the strands B23. The new structure,
much more elongated, breaks apart when the central part of the hydrophobic core represented by
the strands 62614 cracks. The unzipping of 626, occurs as the last unfolding step, anticipated by
6164 separation. Interestingly, only when the central core unfolds, the end-to-end distance of the
domain significantly increases, and reaches a maximal extension of about 8nm. At the timescale
considered, the chain is not completely elongated. In AFM pulling experiments, the mechanical
force required to unfold the A2 domain is the range of 10-20 pN with a loading rate comprises
in the range 0.1-10nNs~!. When considering, as local reaction coordinate, the hydrogen bonds
formed between the f-strands structures, the solvent-induced drag component is just a fraction
of pN. This seems to indicate that for a complex fold as the one of VFW A2, the deformation of the
protein matrix owing to the elongational term of the shear flow occurs first and then propagates
down, mechanically, to the elementary molecular bricks that stabilize the fold, i.e. the secondary