Having established that we can reproduce the metal-ion selectivity of MPH with both the
organophosphate and ary] ester substrates, the question of the origin of this observed effect still =
remains. One of the key roles of metal ions in MBL superfamily members is to activate a metal-ion- 3
bound hydroxide ion for nucleophilic attack [3,17,57]. Therefore, one would assume that at least : ”
part of the observed differences in activity can be linked to differences in hydroxide pKawhen mea)
different metal ions are present in the MPH active site. However, the pKas of the metal aquo :
complexes of the metal ions being considered in this work are very similar, with an average pKa a]
of 9.7 + 0.6 across all five metal ions. Therefore, one would expect at most a contribution of 1 kcal DNS
mol! to the differences in activation barrier from differences in nucleophile pKa, whereas the aon
actual differences in activation barrier that are observed both experimentally and computationally [DG
(figure 3; electronic supplementary material, tables $1 and $2) can be as high as 4 kcal mol~? .
between the different metals. Thus, differences in nucleophile pK, are not enough to explain the
origins of the metal-ion selectivity of MPH, especially taking into account the fact that we are
able to reproduce both qualitative and quantitative trends between different metal ions using a
classical model that does not explicitly describe ligand-to-metal charge transfer.

The second catalytic role of the metal ions in the MPH active site is to act as Lewis acids, thus
stabilizing the ground and transition states of the reactions involved [3,17,57]. From table 1, it
can be seen that for both the neutral organophosphate and the anionic aryl ester, the transition
states are geometrically very similar between the different metal ions. Following from this, despite
some quantitative differences (due, in particular, to the flexibility in our simulations of a loop
comprising residues A115-G124; electronic supplementary material, figure S3), the comparison
of the electrostatic contributions of each amino acid in the protein to the overall calculated free
energy shows similar contributions towards the stabilization of each transition state for the same
substrate for the simulations with different metal ions (electronic supplementary material, figure