which implies that viscous effects dominate over inertial effects. For these simulation conditions, : S
the Péclet number is also small, Pe = VgR/D ~ 0.17 <1, so that fluid advection is negligible DNS
in the reaction-diffusion equations, whereas the Schmidt number is large, Sc = n/coD ~ 13 > 1, : =
which implies that momentum transport dominates over mass transport, characteristic of a liquid :8

solvent. Results are obtained from averages over more than 200 realizations of the dynamics.

First, we compare concentration fields in the vicinity of the Janus motor computed from
continuum theory with those obtained from microscopic simulations. Figure 2a shows the
normalized concentration fields of the product B particles (cg /co) plotted in the xz plane. Although
there is overall qualitative agreement between the continuum and simulated concentration fields,
the continuum model systematically underestimates the simulated values. This discrepancy could
be due to the fact that the simulations are carried out at small but finite Péclet number, whereas
the Péclet number in continuum model is assumed to be zero; however, simulations of a reactive
Janus particle without propulsion (R4 = Rg) also show a similar discrepancy. Thus, the results
point to a breakdown of the continuum model on small length scales near the surface of the
particle where the catalytic reaction occurs. The continuum model accounts for reactions through
a boundary condition on the outer edge of the boundary layer and further assumes the fluid
flow field satisfies stick boundary conditions on the surface of the particle. Neither of these
conditions is fully valid when one examines the particle dynamics within the boundary layer
in the microscopic simulations of our small motors. This breakdown of the continuum model is
also reflected in the fact that the continuum and simulation values of the motor velocity differ.
The microscopic model accounts for both of these effects through the direct hard intermolecular
interactions between the fluid particles and the Janus motor. Figure 2b presents quantitative
comparisons of B particle concentrations and concentration gradients near the boundary layer