extra gain may qualitatively be explained by considering that the LB information processed in
the bulk provides a higher quality, less noisy, input to the DSMC in the Knudsen layer than bulk
DSMC alone. Thus, LB serves as a sort of DSMC accelerator.

Finally, a clarification about the flow domain decomposition technique and its range of
applicability is due. This type of hybrid approach is a suitable choice to analyse multiscale
problems if the flow features a bulk region for which a constitutive model is known to be
accurate, but it may become not an efficient nor an accurate method if such a condition is not
fulfilled. This would be the case, for example, of the Couette flow at a larger Kn number than
the one presented here. For such a condition, it is known that rarefaction effects spread also
across the bulk of the flow and the classical Navier-Stokes equations can no longer accurately
reproduce the flow properties found in the bulk. To overcome this limitation, however, the
kinetic roots of the LBM may help. In fact, whereas LBM was specifically designed to solve
the Navier-Stokes equations [30,31], in the last decade various groups have begun to explore
the possibility to extend the LB methodologies towards non-equilibrium flows beyond Navier-
Stokes hydrodynamics by adopting higher-order lattices [2426] or introducing further modelling
in order to mimic effects of free particle streaming [44]. This is also equivalent to saying that, if
a higher-order lattice is adopted, the size of the domain where the DSMC solver is still needed
can be significantly reduced, thus further improving the overall computational efficiency of the
simulation. In this view, it should be pointed out that the coupling strategy here proposed can
be directly applied to any suitable lattice, provided that the discrete speeds are abscissae of a
Gauss—Hermite quadrature. The extension to higher-order lattice models of the hybrid scheme is
currently under development.

A remark on the range of application of the proposed hybrid method is in order. While