remotely applied tension is the dominant loading mode for tensile failure of fibres and an in-plane
shear would be the modifying loading mode for this failure mode.

Let us begin with the fibre failure mode in tension, discussed in §§3a and 4a. The essential
feature of this failure mode is the local load sharing from one failed fibre to its neighbouring intact
fibres. The properties of the matrix and the fibre-matrix interface as well as the microstructural
parameters such as the interfibre spacing play roles in this load transfer process. If remotely
applied transverse tension (or compression) and in-plane shear stress are combined with the :
axial tension, then these additional loads will affect the local load transfer by changing the local :=
stress field. Without fully analysing these modifying effects, it is commonly assumed that the 23
transverse load (tension or compression) has no effect and that the in-plane shear contributes to
the fibre failure mode in tension in the form of a quadratic interaction, as in equation (2.3). In mea)
fact, this equation also suggests that if the in-plane shear is the dominant loading mode, then :
the mechanisms of shear cracks leading to transverse crack formation, discussed in §§3e and 4e, a]
will be modified by the imposed axial tension in the same way. Obviously, this assertion is not DNS
supported by any analysis at the microstructural level. ares

Consider next the fibre failure mode in compression, discussed in §§3b and 4b. Although [8
different mechanisms underlying this failure mode are possible, in the common case of glass— .
epoxy and carbon-epoxy, the mechanism involved is plastic microbuckling leading to kink-band
formation. The roles of the local shear stress and fibre misalignment have been identified as the
important factors governing this mechanism. If transverse normal stress (tensile or compressive)
and the in-plane shear stress are applied in addition to the axial tension, then their effects must be
considered in terms of any changes induced in the local shear stress and in the fibre misalignment.
Experimental studies have focused on combining the axial compression with the in-plane shear