summarized in the following sections. Model I had nearly 50000 elements and took 20h to run
on a high-performance computing system using 32 CPUs, whereas model II had nearly 590 000
elements and took 2 days to run on the same computing system using 32 CPUs.

(a) Elastic and strength properties

Considerable gradual linear growths of the elastic moduli under loading in the weft and warp
directions are observed for strains from 0.1% to 0.5% (figure 14). The linear growth is followed by
a slow gradual reduction of the moduli with further increase of strains. The nonlinear behaviour
is attributed to a combination of matrix microdamage and fibre splitting. The latter appears to
be a minor cause contributing less to the modulus versus strain variations. The stress-strain
response, as shown in figure 14a, exhibits a higher degree of linearity in the weft direction due
to the fact that loading occurs directly on the fibre tows situated in the outermost surface. The
warp direction shows more of a progression in failure of the material as shown in figure 14b and
deviations from linearity occur relatively early in the loading regime. However, due to the fact
that different fibre tows will have different stresses at the same externally applied displacement
indicates that the carbon may fail earlier than the glass and the failure envelope is progressive due
to the hybrid materials before two-piece failure. Numerical predictions using the two-scale multi-
scale method showed excellent agreement with experimental data for in-plane elastic moduli in
both the weft and warp directions for the idealized perfect geometry without any imperfections
(model I). After including the in situ geometrical imperfections and the fibre crookedness in the
FE model (model II), the predicted elastic moduli reduced the respective model I values (e.g.
warp-directional modulus 34.12 GPa and weft-directional modulus 39.95 GPa) by only 2.2% in
the warp and 2.3% in the weft directions. As we can see, there is a reduction in stiffness after
including the geometric imperfections. For this hybrid configuration, the weft direction is stiffer