We have seen that the Loschmidt approach to design a ‘time machine’ for particles is based on
the sudden change in initial conditions of a complex system. The motion or ‘state’ of an N particle
system is determined at one time by the N positions and N velocities of the particles as a point
ina 6N phase space described by {r;, vj}. The Loschmidt daemons prepare a new initial condition
for the N particles as {r;, —v;} by reversing the N velocities.

In order to understand the way to design such a ‘time machine’ for waves, we have to take
into account the exact nature of the wave equation. It is a partial differential equation of order 2
and the wavefield g(r, t) is a continuous function of four variables (three dimensions in space and
one in time). Therefore, the solution to the wave equation has to be a function described over a
‘hypervolume’ with four variables and its boundary is a ‘hypersurface’ with three variables [12].

In fact, there are two possibilities for the three variables of the hypersurface. It can be two
spatial dimensions and one time dimension. This is the so-called Cauchy boundary conditions
(BCs) that prescribe both the field g(r, t) and its normal derivative dg(r, t)/dn for r along a two-
dimensional surface S for all time t. Once we know {¢(ré S,t), 0¢(r € S, f)/dn}, we can use the
Huygens-Fresnel-Helmholtz theorem to predict the field in all the hypervolume. The other
possibility is a hypersurface described by three spatial dimensions where both the field g(r, tn)
and its time derivative d¢(r,t,)/dt for all r are prescribed at given time t,,. This is the Cauchy
initial conditions (ICs) that are described by the wavefield state {, dg(r, t)/dt};,,. This is the initial
value theorem that is classically called the Cauchy problem. These two possibilities of Cauchy
conditions (BCs or ICs) give rise to two dual approaches to create a ‘time machine’ for waves.

The first approach uses the TRM concept that was initially developed and experimented with
acoustic waves and later with microwaves. It refers to the manipulation of boundary conditions