model results in an increase in sea ice thickness and volume by some 10-20% (depending on
the season). This increase can be explained by the fact that the stochastic perturbations of the
sea ice strength lead to an effective weakening of the sea ice, because small stochastic values
of the ice strength are more influential than large ones. As a result, convergent sea ice drift is
enhanced, which leads to an accumulation of sea ice thickness in the central Arctic and especially
along the coastlines in the western Arctic. The first 20-30 years of uncoupled integration with the
stochastic scheme can be seen as a transient phase. During this phase, sea ice thickness increase
accumulates and increased sea ice production in areas of newly opened water leads to an increase
in sea ice volume. After the transient phase, the sea ice-ocean system reaches a new quasi-
equilibrium state in which the increased sea ice thickness counteracts the effective weakening
of the sea ice caused by the ice strength perturbations. Sea ice volume is no longer increased. In
contrast to the Arctic, the influence of the stochastic sea ice parametrization on the mean climate
of the Antarctic is relatively small in the uncoupled model. This can be explained by the fact
that Antarctic sea ice almost completely vanishes during austral summer which inhibits the small
temporal accumulation of stochastic effects.

The impact of the stochastic sea ice parametrization on the mean climate of the coupled model
ECHAM6-FESOM turns out to be very different. The mean sea ice volume in the Arctic and
Antarctic remains largely unchanged with the stochastic scheme switched on. In the Arctic, this
can be explained by the fact that in an integrated sense the increase of sea ice thickness north of
Greenland and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago is accompanied by a loss of sea ice in the central
and eastern Arctic. This reflects the increased transport of sea ice from the eastern to the western
Arctic which is also reflected in increased sea ice velocities. The same argument holds for the

