Figure 2. A pictorial scheme of the time dependence of M(t) (black dotted line) and its contributions, as indicated by the
labels, Myg(t) (blue solid line) and My(t) (green solid line). Their short-time expansions, as stated in equations (3.10)—(3.12),
are indicated with arrows. In particular, the expansion corresponding to the short-time behaviour of M,; (t) is plotted with a
black dashed line. (Online version in colour.)

N: Mmp(t) decreases as 1 — No?t?/4 and Mx(f) increases as (N — 4)o7#7/4. Such a precise balance
provides for the short-time decay of Mz,1(t) given by equation (3.10), ie. 1 — 07#?. Note that
there is no reason to assume that the decay of Myp(t) would remain ruled by ty. Beyond the
very short times, we expect that the time scale T3 should also show up as T3/N’ with v~1
in the decay of Myp(t) (see below). Furthermore, while Myp(t) goes monotonically to zero,
Mx(t) displays a highly non-trivial behaviour. Indeed, Mx(t) first increases by feeding from the
decay of Mmp(t) until it reaches a maximum. This growth indicates a progressive divergence
of long-range correlations. Thereafter, Mx(t) should decay, accounting for the fact that the state
remains properly normalized. This is precisely what M;,1(f) measures: a conserved polarization
that ultimately distributes uniformly within the spin system. In an isolated finite system this
implies the asymptotic plateau Moo ~ 1/N. As pointed out above, the decay of both M;,1(t) and
Mx(E) occurs in a time scale T3, which, according to equation (3.14), is somewhat longer than but
close to the ‘diffusion’ time Tz. This is the regime captured experimentally.

(b) The extensive decay hypothesis

The previous short-time expansions provide a hint on the scaling relation between the local
LE, M;,:(¢), and the global one as embodied by Mmp(t). In particular, let us first compare the
probability of refocusing the configuration (up or down) of a single spin, ie. [1;,1(t), and the
probability of refocusing a complete many-spin state Myp(t). If the refocusing of each individual