to classical dynamics through the semiclassical construction, one might almost be tempted to
investigate using quantum dynamics to improve on the unpredictability and irreversibility of =
classical dynamics. Of course, this is not possible, but contemplation of this paradox is revealing. :
First, although manifold stability in chaotic dynamics is already well known [28], had one
resolved this paradox prior to the discovery of manifold stability, quantum dynamics along with nee)
semiclassical mechanics would have predicted its existence as an inherent classical structural :
stability forward in time for the unstable manifold and backward in time for the stable manifold. a]
In any event, the paradox forces us to recognize that the sensitivity of quantum dynamics to DNS
perturbation is deeply tied to manifold stability [16]. Second, using the quantum fidelity as a area
measure of quantum reversibility requires an overlap integral, either of two forward propagated aN
quantum states or one propagated forward and backward in time with the original state. In either .
case, the nature of the overlap integral is markedly affected by this classical structural stability,
and generally is not in a regime in which it is amenable to a saddle point method. This fact allows
for the quantum and classical dynamical reversibility behaviours to differ.

2. Predictability and reversibility

Our attention is focused on d degree-of-freedom systems that are strongly and fully chaotic,
meaning they possess significant positive Lyapunov exponents [20], there are no hidden
dynamical symmetries, the phase space is overwhelmingly filled with chaotic trajectories, and
the system has a finite phase space volume; the possible existence of an extremely small relative
volume of stable trajectories does no harm to any of the main ideas. The system is assumed to exist
in both its classical and quantum realms and d is not large enough to be on the thermodynamical
scale. In this section, we review just how different some of the basic classical, quantum and
semiclassical dynamical properties are.