can be anything so long as their sum gives the correct value. Imagine opening a system that allows

some transport pathways to escape or that modifies some paths, but not others. The semiclassical 3
sum has to be able to handle all of these modifications, and can only do it if each term has a : s
meaning and value in spite of having access only to the sum for a particular situation. Rather :<
amusingly, the structural stability of chaotic systems takes care of this by making the needed : 3S
orbit’s classical information stable and predictable even though the orbit itself is not. The number 1g

of orbits in the summation, their actions, Maslov indices, stabilities are all stable.
With respect to the reversibility properties of quantum and classical dynamics of simple
chaotic systems, the inherent, strong, classical structural stability enables the reversibility

properties to be far different in many regimes despite the fact that classical information predicts : 8
the quantum dynamics all throughout these regimes. Conversely, one could deduce that, given Dos
that semiclassical theories work and the reversibility properties are extremely different, chaotic :=
systems must be structurally stable. All other quantities being fixed, in the limit f — 0, there : Sy
always comes a point beyond which the quantum and classical reversibility properties match. a
This can also be thought of as the large perturbation regime. In the opposite limit of a fixed aed
h, shrinking the perturbation always leads to a point beyond which the reversibility properties 22
get arbitrarily different in time scales, tending to an infinite ratio of quantum to classical : 8
reversibility time scales. The crossover points in these limits are determined by the validity DNS
of the saddle point approximation applied to the overlap integral. It, in turn, depends on : z
how similar the unstable manifolds for a system and its perturbation are. The end result is a aon

single universal scaling parameter, here denoted as y, that controls the relationship between the