theoretic in origin’, ‘the universe is participatory’, etc. It yields results that are unambiguous 22
and independent of the individual subjective judgment, providing a rational explanation for : 8
the extraordinary descriptive power of quantum theory, and it also provides strong support for DN
Bohr’s statement [34] that ‘The physical content of quantum mechanics is exhausted by its power : g
to formulate statistical laws governing observations under conditions specified in plain language’. DB

LI applies to situations where there may or may not be causal relationships between the
events [26,28]. Extracting cause-and-effect relationships from empirical evidence is a highly non-
trivial problem. In general, LI does not establish cause-and-effect relationships [28,35], although
rational reasoning about these relations should comply with the rules of LI. Furthermore,
a derivation of a quantum theoretical description from LI principles does not prohibit the
construction of cause-and-effect mechanisms that create the impression that these mechanisms
produce data that can be described by quantum theory [36,37]. In fact, there is a substantial body
of work demonstrating that it is indeed possible to construct simulation models which reproduce,
on an event-by-event basis, the results of interference/entanglement/uncertainty experiments
with single photons/neutrons [38-42]. This demonstration does not imply the reality of hidden
variables or something like that.

The LI approach which we review here leads to the view that quantum theory is a
phenomenological theory which can be derived from a set of simple general principles, not
axioms, in a way that is independent of any (strictly speaking, unknown) ‘more microscopic’
level of description. Therefore, its power does not depend on whether there exists an underlying
classical world with some hidden variables, or not. In this sense, there is a clear parallel with
Einstein’s view on thermodynamics. Einstein did not regard thermodynamics as a constructive
theory, an attempt to build a picture of complex phenomena out of some relatively simply