on CBFV. Specifically, a recent study by Panerai ef al. [18] examined the combined effects of ABP
and ETCO, changes on CBFV changes in response to a motor task (elbow flexion), aiming to
disentangle physiological effects from neurovascular coupling (effect of motor task on CBFV).
Therefore, the effects of HR were not considered and the effect of the motor task was incorporated

as a third input in their multiple-input autoregressive model using a perfect step function, : =
ie. an idealized signal that is rather different in nature than experimental measurements of : yy
physiological fluctuations, which exhibit broadband characteristics. With respect to the effects (3
of ABP and ETCO? on CBFV variability, their results overall agree with this study, in that ABP aes
explains mainly fast CBFV variations and ETCO) explains the slow CBFV variations (e.g. figs 6 22
and 3 in [18]). ETCO2 was found to have a slightly larger contribution to CBFV variability than : 8
ABP—albeit more variable across subjects and subsequently less statistically significant (table 1 in DN
[18]). However, this could be due to the fact that there appears to be a strong correlation between : g
the third input of their model (elbow flexion) and ABP, and also to that the mean value of ABP : B

and CBFV increased during elbow flexion. Overall, our results regarding the effects of ETCO2
agree with previous two-input studies using Volterra models [13] and multiple coherence [28,29].

A note should be made regarding the use of NMSE as a criterion for model performance and a
means for model validation. Although most investigators would accept the ability of a model to
reduce the residual variance as evidence of improved model performance, it must be noted that a
reduction in residual variance may be accompanied by an increase in estimation variance, which
is a detriment to model performance. The balance in this delicate trade-off often depends on the
statistical characteristics of the data-contaminating noise, which are generally unknown; one way
to achieve a good trade-off is to use a statistical criterion such as the BIC.