
detected by computing a moving-window cross-correlation between the frontal EEG channels
and electro-oculogram: high values of cross-correlation were marked as ocular artefacts. We
considered cross-correlation values as significantly high if greater than a specific threshold
value. Such a value was derived by computing the same moving-window cross-correlation
between phase-randomized surrogated [74] frontal EEG channels and the electro-oculogram.
Furthermore, we considered only artefacts producing fluctuations greater than 50. V on frontal
EEG channels, lasting at least 70 ms. Epochs marked as artefact-corrupted were tagged and, after
visual inspection, definitively discarded [75]. ‘Bad’ channels identification refers to the detection
of low-quality EEG signal, frequent unexpected events and presence of high-frequency noise [73].
To this aim, for each channel, we calculated the second-, third- and fourth-central moments and
identified the ‘bad’ channels as the outliers present in such a three-dimensional space. Good
channels, in fact, usually cluster together, whereas the bad ones drift apart in different directions
according to their artefactual nature (for example, channels highly contaminated by the power- =
line have lower kurtosis than other channels). For each dimension of this space, channels distant :
more than twice the interquartile range from the cluster centroid were classified as artefactual
and, after visual inspection, were discarded. nee)

(c) Instantaneous heart rate variability analysis by

The ECG signal was analysed off-line to extract the RR intervals [41]. Firstly, ECG was pre-filtered [3S
through a moving average filter in order to extract and subtract the baseline. Then, a QRS complex :
detection algorithm was used. We adopted the automatic algorithm developed by Pan-Tompkins
[76]. This algorithm allowed us to extract each QRS complex and to detect the corresponding
R-peak. Erroneous and ectopic beats were corrected by a previously developed algorithm, based