
The descriptive power of the plane-wave DFT method, coupled with the dramatic increase
in available computational resources, has led to DFT being applied to ever-larger simulation
systems. However, for large simulations (approx. 10° atoms), the computer memory required
by a conventional DFT simulation scales as the square of the simulation size. Furthermore, the
computational time required scales as the cube of the system size. While available computer power
continues to increase, it is attained for the most part not with faster compute cores, but with more
compute cores. To address large physical and chemical problems, or even move into the molecular
biological sciences, is likely to require simulations to run on hundreds of thousands, if not millions
of cores. Not only does this present an extremely difficult challenge for the parallel scaling of the
DFT software, particularly any parallel Fourier transforms, it also presents new problems. As the
number of cores involved in a calculation increases, the probability of a core failing increases
combinatorially; in fact in a calculation involving a million cores for many hours, it is likely that
one or more cores will fail during the course of the simulation. This requires a new consideration
in the design of DFT programs: the capability to detect and recover from severe hardware faults,
such as core, memory or network connection failure. Such fault-tolerant computing is already
crucial for key computer server software and is an active area of research in Computer Science,
but its impact has not yet spread widely in computational science simulations. It is vital that such
fault-tolerant techniques and algorithms are used in DFT software for the future if it is ever to
make full use of exascale computers and beyond.

An alternative approach to the problem of large simulations is that of linear-scaling DFT. The
Kohn-Sham equations can be reformulated in terms of the density matrix, n(r,r’), and for systems
with a band-gap this density matrix decays exponentially with |r —1’|. This exponential decay
with distance means the density matrix is diagonally dominant, and can be truncated safely