single out quantum theory within a standard set of possible theories. It is worth stressing,
however, that the purification principle assumed in this paper includes a requirement that
was not explicitly mentioned in Schrédinger’s discussion: if two pure states of a composite
system AB have the same marginal on system A, then they are connected by some reversible
transformation on system B. In other words, we assume that all purifications of a given
mixed state are equivalent under local reversible operations. ([50], p. 2)

Chiribella, D’Ariano and Perinotti also speak of ‘the purification postulate’, and they refer to
the remaining informational ‘postulates’ as ‘axioms’, because ‘as opposed to the purification
“postulate”, ... they are not at all specific [to] quantum theory’ ([50], p. 3). They defined their
operational principle qua principle later ([50], p. 6). While these terminological distinctions may
be somewhat tenuous, they do not affect Chiribella, D’Ariano and Perinotti’s main argument.
The purification principle is a new principle. Beyond the fact that it has a richer content than
does Schrédinger’s statement, Schrédinger never saw his claim as a principle, perhaps because of
his critical view of QM. The principle could be related to Bohr’s complementarity, which implies
and even states that ‘ignorance about a part [one of the two complementary parts] is always
compatible with the maximal knowledge of the whole’, making the very language of ‘parts’ and
‘whole’ provisional. Chiribella, D’Ariano and Perinotti’s formulation of the purification principle
to the effect that ‘every physical state can be viewed as the marginal of some pure state of a
compound system’ avoids this difficulty. Bohr saw the EPR experiment (the background for
Schrédinger’s claim and his concept of entanglement) as a manifestation of complementarity
({15], v. 2, p. 59, [59]). Thinking in terms of ‘circuits’ (not found in Schrédinger) is close to
Bohr’s view of the role of measuring instruments in the constitution of quantum phenomena. One
must keep in mind that all knowledge in question is probabilistic or statistical, defined by what
Schrodinger calls ‘expectation-catalogs’, say, those provided by the wave function ([16], p. 158).