between stationary states, transitions manifested in spectra, observed in measuring devices. In a
this way, Heisenberg’s derivation was essentially related to the fact that the observable parts of 1B
measuring instruments are classically describable devices, which are akin to ‘operational circuits’ ig
in Chiribella, D’Ariano and Perinotti’s or related quantum-informational schemes, such as that 18
of Hardy, except that these schemes, in order to derive QFDT, start with giving a mathematical :
structure to these circuits themselves.

This approach is motivated by Chiribella, D’Ariano and Perinotti’s aim to arrive at the
mathematical architecture of QFDT in a more first-principle-like way; in particular, independently
of the mathematics of classical physics. (The latter, to begin with, does not have discrete
variables, such as spin, which are purely quantum, with which QFDT is associated.) The rules :
governing the structure of operational circuits are indeed more empirical. These rules, however, =
are not completely empirical, because (beyond the fact that no rules could even be completely 3
empirical) operational circuits are given a mathematical structure. This is parallel to Heisenberg’s
arrangement of the quantities he used into the square tables, matrices, which we now take for nee)
granted, but which, as explained earlier, was a mathematical invention that gave a structure, :
architecture to these quantities, ultimately linked to the probabilities of transitions between a]
stationary states. In fact, these quantities could even be seen in relation to circuits where these DN
quantities are observed or (probabilistically) predicted as spectra. Heisenberg, again, needs other [o
elements, just described, to establish this architecture fully, quite differently from how Chiribella, :B
D’Ariano and Perinotti aim to do this. Nevertheless, in this case, too, we still deal with the .
architecture, that of circuits, from which the mathematical architecture of the theory emerges.!7
We keep in mind that in both approaches we only deal with mathematical structures linked to and
providing the probabilities or statistics of the outcomes of discrete quantum experiments, thus in
accord with the QD and QP/QS principles, without providing any representation of quantum