In §4, we used the idea of objective structures to generate energy-minimizing bent and twisted
configurations of a material (e.g. TisoNi4go.75Pdg,25) exhibiting perfect interfaces between austenite
and single-variant martensite. In §5a, we noticed that the resulting configurations have the same
structure as exact solutions of the equations of molecular dynamics generated using the theory of
objective structures. For the latter the bent and twisted structure is the orbit under a helical group
of the domain y(2’).

Note that the reference configuration plays no direct role in the construction of twisted states
at the atomic level. We can simply work with a collection of atoms and an isometry group. The
simplest objective structures are the orbits of a single atom position under an isometry group.
The examples above raise the question of whether two objective structures, each generated as the
orbit of a single atom position, can meet along an interface with perfect matching of atoms across
the interface. Here we show by examples that this is the case. In fact, the method of construction
here is strictly mathematically analogous to the method used to construct the helical structures
shown in figure 6b. A complete analysis is given in a forthcoming paper [43].

Helical atomistic structures are surprisingly common. All single-walled carbon nanotubes of
all chiralities are given by a helical group acting ona single atomic position. (See [39] for formulae
for the helical groups.) They are particularly common in viruses. In [13], it is shown that the
positions and orientations of molecules on the tail sheath of bacteriophage T4 are accurately given
by a helical group operating on a single molecule. In fact, the tail sheath of this virus actually
undergoes a phase transformation during the process of infection, and both phases are orbits

2See Salje et al. [41] for a review of interfacial relaxation in the context of continuum theory of ferroelectric phase
transformations and Diao et al. [42] for interesting, atomistic effects such as surface energy induced phase transformation