frequency lower than the surface wave is still unknown, it might be caused by the wave groups 22
as suggested by the IMF variations in figure 2b, but the exact causes should be explored in the : 8
future. The above-mentioned analyses illustrate that what we have shown here is consistent with DN
the theoretical predictions and the laboratory observations of wave-turbulence interactions. The : g
same pattern persists to IMF components 4 and 5, which are not shown in the paper. All the 18

indications from the significance test, the Fourier spectrum and the phase distribution concur to
show that these components are indeed modulated by the dominant surface wave at its frequency.
If we sum all the relevant IMF components together, ie. IMF3-5, then we would get the result
shown in figure 4d. This sum covers the strong AM modulation for the turbulence frequency range
over one decade, from nearly 2 to 5 Hz and a phase distribution showing an enhancement from
crest to trough. Curiously, though the shallowness of the water made the turbulence structure
anisotropic, spectral shape in this range still agrees with the Kolmogorov, a fact worthy of further
investigations.

Next, we consider Data section 2, which was collected when the effect of typhoon Rammasun
was near, and just before the instruments were damaged by the strong forces. The sea state
has increased drastically. The root mean squared value of the cleansed data in this case is
0.21ms~!. The corresponding Fourier spectrum, IMF components, significance test, wave-
turbulence separation and the probability results are given in figures 5a—d and 6. From figures 5
and 6, we can see that the surface wave spectrum has broadened considerably to near, or
even slightly lower than, 0.1 Hz. The IMF and significance test indicate that the energy density
increased from IMF component number 5, which also contains some visible wave effects from
the IMF data. Therefore, it would be treated as waves and large-scale motions. Again, the first
two IMFs are no different from white noise, leaving only IMF components 3 and 4 as candidates