shear, which is a more prevailing motion in the ocean surface layer than the turbulence-induced
shear based on controlled laboratory experiments [18]. Indeed, this wave-induced drift is also a
driving mechanism for Langmuir circulation [34,39-41], which is also a crucial factor in surface
mixing. Therefore, it makes eminently physical sense for a parametrization of the non-breaking
surface wave-induced vertical viscosity to include the Stokes drift explicitly.

The importance of ocean general circulation models (OGCMs) is so high that it cannot be
overemphasized. However, most OGCMs, if not all, had suffered from common problems such as
the simulated sea surface temperatures are too high, the simulated mixed layer depth (MLD)
in the upper ocean is too shallow, or the simulated subsurface temperature is too low in the
summer time [42] especially for the Southern Ocean [43], until the non-breaking surface wave-
induced vertical mixing was included into OGCMs [6] which much relieves the above-mentioned
common problems. In fact, all these challenges indicate that the vertical mixing in the upper
ocean has been underestimated. The weak point of the governing equations of all OGCMS is the
turbulence closure schemes which have very high uncertainty. Validation of turbulence closure
schemes seems a solution to determining which kind of scheme should be selected. However,
the only option for turbulence measurements in the open ocean was the indirect dissipation rate
[44] before the HHSA is available. The in situ observation results [44], which show the dissipation
rate decays exponentially in the upper 50 m, confirmed the original parametrization scheme [6].
To show the effects of the non-breaking wave-induced mixing of equation (5.8), here we design
four sets of numerical experiments to test the sensitivity of By to different models and turbulence
closure schemes. For each set of numerical experiments, the original OGCM was spun up for
10 years, and the model ran with and without By separately for 1 year more. All four OGCMs
including MOM4, NEMO, ROMS and POM are popularly used all over the world. MOM4, ROMS
and POM employ KPP [5], KPP and Mellor—Yamada [4] turbulence closure schemes, respectively,