by considering the general physical constraints on the mechanisms underlying heredity, he
correctly reasoned that the genetic material must necessarily be an ‘aperiodic crystal’. His
logic was twofold. Heredity requires stability of physical structure—hence the genetic material
must be rigid, and more specifically crystalline, since those are the most stable solid structures
known. However, normal crystals display only simple repeating patterns and thus contain little
information. Schrédinger therefore reasoned that the genetic material must be aperiodic in order
to encode sufficient information to specify something as complex as a living cell in a (relatively)
small number of atoms. In this manner, by simple and general physical arguments, he was able
to accurately predict that the genetic material should be a stable molecule with a non-repeating
pattern—in more modern parlance, that it should be a molecule whose information content is : =
algorithntically incompressible. 3
Today, we know Schrédinger’s ‘aperiodic crystal’ as DNA. Watson and Crick discovered the
double helix just under a decade after the publication of What is life? [2]. Despite the fact that nee)
the identity of the genetic material was discovered over 60 years ago, we are in many ways no :
closer today than we were before its discovery to having an explanatory framework for biology. a]
While we have made significant advances in understanding biology over the last several decades, DN
we have not made comparable advances in physics to unite our new understanding of biology with the [o
foundations of physics. Schrédinger used physical principles to constrain unknown properties of :&
biology associated with genetic heredity. One might argue that this could be done again, but now ,
at the level of the epigenome, or interactome, and so on for any level of biological organization,
and not just for the genome as Schrédinger did. But this kind of approach only serves to constrain
structures consistent with the laws of physics; it does not explain why they should exist in
the first place.! An alternative approach is to instead use insights from biology to constrain
unknown physics. That is, to take a track working in the opposite direction from that proposed
by Schrédinger: rather than using physics to inform biology, one could start by thinking about