alone, as the SF networks differ in their patterns of information processing from the fission yeast
cell cycle, despite sharing common topological features, such as degree distribution. Similarly,
it cannot be dynamics alone due to the lack of a distinct signature in EI or ¢ for the biological
network, as both are manifestations of the global dynamics on the attractor landscape.

An important question opened by our analysis is why the biological network exhibits distinct
features for TE and shows patterns in AI associated with functional regulation, when global
measures yield no distinction between the biological network and random networks. We suggest
that the separate analysis of two distinct levels of informational patterns (e.g. node-node or state-
state) as presented above misses what arguably may be one of the most important features of
biological organization—that is, that distinct levels interact. This view is supported by the fact
that the control kernel plays a prominent role in the distinctive local informational patterns of :
the fission yeast cell-cycle network, but was in fact first identified for its role regulating dynamics :3
on the global attractor landscape. The control kernel may therefore be interpreted as mediating :s
the connection between the local and global causal structure of the network. The results of the previous :
section indicate that these same nodes act as a hub for the transfer of information within the
network and for information storage. The interaction between distinct levels of organization is
typically described as ‘top-down’ causation and has previously been proposed as a hallmark
feature of life [30-32]. We hypothesize that the lower level patterns observed with TE and AI
arise because of the particular manner in which the biological fission yeast cell-cycle network
is integrated, regulating dynamics on its global attractor landscape through the small subset of
control kernel nodes via ‘top-down’ control. Instead of studying individual levels of architecture
as separate entities, to fully understand the informational architecture of biological networks
we must therefore additionally study informational patterns mediating the interactions between
different levels of informational structure, as they are distributed in space and time. To test