Given the structural simplicity of a water molecule—H2O0—and its importance to biological 22
as well as other natural systems, it is perhaps surprising that, in both its liquid and solid forms, : 8
HO remains somewhat mysterious. In the liquid state, water molecules form ‘networks’, where DNS
the connections are made from hydrogen bonds, giving the substance considerable structure. So : a
too, ice shows considerable and variable structure. There are no less than 15 known distinct : &

polymorphs of ice (usually specified by Roman numerals) [70], although some of them only
exist under conditions too extreme to be commonly observed terrestrially [71] and some are also
metastable. Additionally, as thermodynamic conditions change, these different polymorphs can
undergo solid-state transformations from one form to another. The common polymorph usually
encountered in everyday life is called hexagonal ice (ice I,). For some time, an alternative form
of ice, cubic ice (ice I), was thought to be a low-temperature modification coexisting with ice I,
at temperatures as high as 240 K [72]. However, recent studies [73] have concluded that in fact
previous observations are probably not this purely cubic form, but rather a mixture of cubic and
hexagonal stackings, called stacking-disordered ice, abbreviated (ice Iq) by Malkin et al. [74] and (ice
Icy) by Hansen et al. [75]. Whether or not this will be confirmed by additional studies, ice I, gives a
convenient boundary condition on the possible structures that could exist and we will proceed as
though ice I, is a possible metastable phase. Above 170K, ice I,q transforms irreversibly to ice I).

Structurally, ice I (ice Ip, ice Ic, ice Iq) can be thought of as a layered material. The oxygens
in the water molecules organize into layers consisting of six-member puckered rings [74].? These
layers can further assume only three possible stacking orientations, called A, B or C, just as in
close-packed structures [76]. The layers are organized so that, upon scanning the material, the
layers form double layers, where each individual layer in this double layer must have the same
orientation. Additionally, just as in the close-packed case, adjacent double layers cannot have the