that better physiological denoising algorithms for such data are needed. Furthermore, we selected
not to perform white matter (WM) or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) regression, which is a relatively
common practice in similar studies, as it is rather difficult to obtain accurate individualized masks
for WM and/or CSF and consequently, some fraction of the grey matter signal may be regressed
from the data, masking out the pure effects of physiological noise, in which we are interested [22].

The frequency sub-bands that yielded the stronger correlations between time-varying degree
and band-limited power are related to each signal’s characteristic and suggest that fluctuations
in these bands have a clearer modulatory effect. For PETCO2 modulations in very low-frequency
power (0-0.08 Hz in functional space and 0-0.02 in MNI space) were found to have the clearer
effect, which is consistent with the previously described spectral characteristics of PETCO2
fluctuations [19,32]. For HR, a wider frequency band was identified (0-0.25 Hz) reflecting the
fact that HR has a richer spectral content than PETCO}. Additionally, the identified frequency
band contains the low-frequency (LF—around 0.1 Hz) spectral peak and possibly also the high-
frequency (HF—around 0.2 Hz) spectral peak of the HR signal. While, often, these two spectral
peaks are assumed to correspond to cardiac sympathetic and cardiac parasympathetic neural
activity, respectively, the relative contributions of each mechanism still remain the subject of
controversy and investigation. What is generally accepted is that both LF and HF components
of the HR signal (or HRV—note that fluctuations in these two signals have the same spectral
characteristics) are affected by the complex interactions between both parasympathetic and
sympathetic nerve fibres as well as mechanical, and other factors on the pacemaker cells usually
located in the sinoatrial node [42]. The effects of these two components could be disentangled
by obtaining estimates of instantaneous HF and LF HR power by using, e.g. point-process
models [43].
