(compared with the methanol selectivities of 3.1%, 4.2% and 6.4%, respectively) under a CO2
pressure of 4, 8 and 16 MPa, respectively (table 2, entries 1, 3 and 5). A similar tendency was
observed when the H2 pressure was 8 MPa (table 2, entries 6-10). For example, the activities
changed from 0.9 to 2.4mmolco2 got h7! and the Co,OH selectivities increased from 4.4% to
36.0%, respectively (table 2, entries 6 and 10), as the CO pressure increased from 4 to 12 MPa.
The results demonstrated that the higher CO2 pressure could give a higher catalytic activity and
C,,OH selectivity. In general, the rate of hydrogenation is usually slow due to the low solubility
of hydrogen in common organic solvents [28]. High-pressure CO can expand the organic solvents
[29], which can enhance the dissolution of the H2 and improve the efficiency of the reactions [30].
In our work, an increase in CO? pressure could increase the concentrations of Hz and CO2, which
may be one of the main reasons for the enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity for C2, alcohols.
The results in table 2 also demonstrate that the higher Hz pressure enhanced the reactivity mainly
due to the fact that the solubility of H2 in the liquid is higher at a higher H2 pressure.

(c) Reusability of the catalyst and hot filtration test

The reusability of the Pt;Ru2/Fe2O3 catalyst was tested. In this experiment, the catalyst was
separated from the reaction mixture by a centrifugation method after the reaction, and was
used for the next run after it had been washed and dried. The results are shown in figure 5.
It was demonstrated that the catalyst could be re-used at least five times without any obvious
change in activity and selectivity. The ICP results showed that the Pt and Ru leaching was
0.8 ppm and 1.3 ppm, respectively, after the reaction. Furthermore, in the hot filtration test, no
additional CO) was consumed after the catalyst was filtrated off (figure 6). These results and the
XPS characterization (figure 2) clearly indicated that the Pt;Ru2/Fe2O3 catalyst possessed good
stability in the catalytic reaction.