Cmax, restricting the possible values of the statistical complexity measure in a given entropy—
complexity plane [39]. Thus, it is clear that important additional information related to the
correlational structure between the components of the physical system is provided by evaluating
the statistical complexity measure. In order to calculate the two information-theory-derived
quantifiers mentioned previously, a probability distribution should be estimated from the time
series of the system. Bandt & Pompe (BP) [40] introduced a successful methodology for the
evaluation of the PDF associated with scalar time-series data using a symbolization technique.
The pertinent symbolic data are (i) created by ranking the values of the series and (ii) defined
by reordering the embedded data in ascending order, which is tantamount to a phase-space
reconstruction with embedding dimension (pattern length) D and time lag t. In this way, it is
possible to quantify the diversity of the ordering symbols (patterns) derived from a scalar time
series. Note that the appropriate symbol sequence arises naturally from the time series and no
model-based assumptions are needed. In fact, the necessary ‘partitions’ are devised by comparing
the order of neighbouring relative values rather than by apportioning amplitudes according
to different levels. This technique, as opposed to most of those in current practice, takes into
account the temporal structure of the time series generated by the physical process under study.
This feature allows us to uncover important details concerning the ordinal structure of the time
series [41-43] and can also yield information about temporal correlation [31,32]. It is clear that
this type of analysis of time series entails losing some details of the original series’ amplitude
information. Nevertheless, by just referring to the series’ intrinsic structure, a meaningful
difficulty reduction has indeed been achieved by BP with regard to the description of complex
systems. The symbolic representation of time series by recourse to a comparison of consecutive
(t =1) or non-consecutive (t > 1) values allows for an accurate empirical reconstruction of the
underlying phase-space, even in the presence of weak (observational and dynamic) noise [40].
The advantages of the method reside in (i) its simplicity, we need few parameters: the pattern