
The question of how uncertainty should be communicated is one faced by scientists in many :
fields [5]. If uncertainty is not adequately communicated, then it can cause recipients to experience fA
a false sense of certainty [6,7], maladaptive decision-making [8,9] and, if discovered, diminished Dw
trust in communicators [9,10]. However, research in the behavioural decision sciences shows :
that people—even experts such as medical doctors—can struggle to understand probabilistic :g
information [11,12]. Additionally, recipients may discount information that is perceived as :s
uncertain [13,14]. In contexts such as climate risk management, where greater uncertainty is often :
associated with greater expected damages [15], this could lead to costly failures to act [16].

This article focuses on the communication of uncertainty in seasonal and interannual climate
forecasts. As with other model-based prediction systems, uncertainty in climate forecasts comes
from both the probabilistic nature of the forecast, and the fact that the models used to make
these forecasts do not have perfect reliability [17]. Hence, users must be aware of both types
of uncertainty, if they are to make informed decisions about whether or not to use seasonal
or interannual forecasts, and—if so—how to use them in their decision-making. However, the
complex ways in which climate scientists represent uncertainty may not be well understood by
users, or provide them with the information they need to make decisions. To identify strategies for
effectively communicating uncertainty to users in climate-sensitive organizations, it is important
to first understand users’ information needs, preferences and level of understanding [18,19].

In §2, we discuss some of the challenges faced by providers of climate forecasts, while
referencing the risk perception literature. Section 3 describes the survey we conducted to explore
user needs and preferences regarding uncertainty in seasonal and interannual climate forecasts. In
§§4-6, we present key findings regarding organizational approach to uncertainty, perceptions of