environment is changing faster than ever before, multiple layers of technology prevent people
from sensing those changes directly. In consequence, direct observation is largely replaced nee)
by social learning in advanced societies. We do not directly observe floods or bush fires but :
follow the discussion of those events on Twitter or Internet-based media. This lack of direct [4
experience increases the likelihood that people will be following a small but determined minority DN
of (mis-)information brokers, in particular, if their messages are culturally consonant with one’s [sz
belief system. :&

This process is already visibly occurring with climate change, which has become a highly ,
contested issue (at least in some countries [28-30]) in which misinformation abounds and
polarization based on political orientation is rampant [31-34]. We should therefore not take for
granted that our advanced and complex civilizations will respond to global challenges in the
most appropriate manner. In fact, it is the very complexity of our technological civilizations that
should concern us because of the potential for surprises it entails, as Parker & Risbey [35] show
in their article on the role of surprises in uncertainty assessments. Parker & Risbey nominate
two criteria that scientific assessments should fulfil when reporting the uncertainty associated
with projections: they must be faithful and they must be complete. The latter requirement turns
out to be rather more involved than might first meet the eye. In order for an assessment of
uncertainty to be complete, it must also note the possibility of surprises—that is, the famed
‘unknown unknowns’. Parker & Risbey show that although surprises, by definition, cannot be
anticipated in the particular, the likelihood that one or the other surprise may arise can be
anticipated. As they note, ‘it is true that we cannot specify what the unknown unknowns are,
else they wouldn’t be unknown unknowns; but it doesn’t follow that it is impossible to make
reasonable judgments about the relative risk of there existing some or other unknown unknown
that results in a surprising outcome or behaviour’ [35, p. 6]. Complex systems, such as the climate