
NELA executives made a list of specific words, terms and claims that they found objectionable 2
and wanted removed. These included over-capitalization, stock watering, abuses in rate making, aes
weakness in regulatory practices and in some contexts, even, taxation, reasonable rates and fair 22
return [33, pp. 87-88]. Among the statements to which NELA objected were the claims that [4
municipal generation was cheaper than private generation; that the industry as a whole had : S
engaged in questionable financial dealings and that utilities had been involved in corrupting the : =
political process; and that the latter had led people to look for remedies. J. B. Sheridan, chairman :&

of the NELA Subcommittee on Textbooks, offered specifics: ‘Some of the textbooks state that the
utilities are or were overcapitalized, have ‘watered their stock’, and impose excessive rates upon
their customers to enable them to make financial returns upon alleged capital investment which
does not in fact exist’ [33, p. 84]. (In the 1930s, investigators would conclude that the industry had
done just these things; the fact that the claims were in high school textbooks in the 1920s suggests
that these activities were already widely known.) They also objected to the characterization of
their industry as ‘private’—insisting that they were the true public entities because they were
owned by their shareholders. (They neglected to note that most of the shares held by the public
did not carry voting rights.) One passage that NELA officials found particularly objectionable
explained how industry shady dealings had led people to conclude that government control of
natural monopolies was required:

In the past, public service corporations have often ‘watered’ their securities; that is they
have issued shares of stock and bonds beyond the real value of the property ... In order
to pay the interest on such securities, companies have frequently levied high charges and
given poor service. When the franchises which have made their high profits possible have