slip’ cycle, except that the relative sliding speed v never falls quite to zero during the ‘sticking’
episodes because of the particular friction law chosen. Figure 1b shows the trajectory in the p—-v
plane, and it also includes as the dashed line the steady-sliding relation j1ss(v). It is apparent that
the actual trajectory is quite different from the steady-sliding curve in this case. Figure 1c shows a
three-dimensional phase plot of the motion, with the state variable on the vertical axis. The shape
of this curve relates to the obvious asymmetry of the velocity waveform in figure 1a. When a
sticking episode begins, the state variable has a value near zero and both the velocity waveform
and the phase plot show a sharp corner. During sticking, the state variable evolves through
significantly non-zero values, and it continues to evolve as slipping recommences, leading to
more gentle curves.
Figure 2 shows two versions of the N-A parameter plane described above. In each case,
individual plotted symbols mark the simulation runs used. The vertical scale is logarithmic, but
the bottom line of simulations shown in the plots were in fact done with the friction-curve model,
in the limit where A has gone to zero. Where the symbols have a grey plus sign in the centre,
the simulation revealed that steady oscillation occurred. The pattern of these symbols matches
the prediction of the stability threshold, shown as a solid line. In the top left of the plots, steady
sliding was stable and no oscillation occurred. The heavy circle marks the case shown in figure 1:
it was chosen to fall near the ‘elbow’ of the stability threshold where several influences on the
detailed motion are active simultaneously.
For cases with oscillation, below the stability line, the plots are colour-shaded according to
two examples of metrics that are potentially measurable in a real experiment. Figure 2a uses as
a metric the proportion of the oscillation period for which sticking was seen. On the left of the
diagram, the motion becomes quasi-sinusoidal with only a very short sticking interval, so the
value tends towards zero. On the right, by contrast, the motion tends towards that of a ‘relaxation
oscillator’ where sticking predominates, interrupted by very short slipping episodes. The metric