which ‘perfect’ starting transients might be achievable. A measured version of this ‘Guettler
diagram’ is shown in figure 4a. The open D string of a cello has been bowed, using a computer-
controlled bowing machine, in a 20 x 20 grid of gestures covering a region of the parameter
plane. The string motion was captured using a sensor embedded in the bridge to measure the
transverse force exerted by the vibrating string. An example transient is shown in figure 5: the
sawtooth waveform after about 0.1s is the signature of Helmholtz motion. The 400 waveforms
were analysed by computer to classify the length of the transient before Helmholtz motion was
established, and this transient length is coded in the colour scale of figure 4a.

The results show a trace of Guettler’s predicted wedge-shaped region, but the data are
‘speckly’: the transient length varies from pixel to pixel, and even within the wedge there are
some black pixels that did not produce Helmholtz motion at all but a different regime of nonlinear
oscillation. In fact, the experiment gives a hint of sensitive dependence: even with the computer-
controlled bowing machine, repeating the parameter space scan does not produce identical results
but a different pattern of speckles.

However, the underlying wedge-shaped region within which Helmholtz motion is produced,
at least sometimes, persists. The task of theoretical modelling is to produce a set of simulations
capable of reproducing this behaviour with sufficient fidelity that the model might be trusted to
shed light on how the details of the pattern might be affected by changes to the string, or the
instrument body behaviour, or some other musically relevant aspect. Modelling of the linear part
of the system is reasonably uncontroversial [73], and the main challenge comes, as elsewhere in
this paper, from the friction model. Figure 4b shows the result of simulations using the friction-
curve model based on measured steady-sliding properties of rosin. It is immediately obvious that
this model gives very poor results: hardly any aspects of the pattern are successfully reproduced.