as u.

On the other hand, for these equations, some new technical difficulties arise, for which new
mathematical ideas and techniques have to be developed. First, it is a coupled system, so that
the coefficients of the nonlinear degenerate elliptic equation for w depend on z, which makes
the uniform estimates for w near the sonic circle more challenging. Second, the obliqueness
condition on the free boundary deduced from the Rankine-Hugoniot conditions depends on the
smallness of z. To overcome this, a degenerate elliptic cut-off function near the pseudo-sonic circle
is introduced, which is more precise in comparison with [26]. The reason why the more precise
degenerate cut-off function needs to be introduced is that the uniform estimates of w are required
to obtain a convergent sequence near P,, which is crucial for the equivalence between the deduced
system and the potential flow equation (2.5) with degenerate elliptic cut-off. Third, because of
the new feature that sin@ may be 0 along the pseudo-sonic circle, and the fact that there is no
C?-regularity at P; where the shock and pseudo-sonic circle meet, from the optimal regularity
argument by Bae et al. [27], more effort is needed to remove the degenerate elliptic cut-off case
by case carefully, near and away from Pj, respectively. The final main difficulty is to show the
equivalence of the original potential flow equation (2.5) and the deduced second-order equation
for w with irrotationality and Bernoulli’s law, which requires gradient estimates for w near the
pseudo-sonic circle, but the estimates by scaling only provide a bound divided by the distance to
this circle. This is overcome, thanks to the estimates involving e.

When the wedge angle becomes smaller, several other difficulties arise. Owing to the concave
corner of the solution domain at the origin, more technical arguments are required to obtain
the existence of solutions to the modified problem. Unlike in [1], because it requires one to
take derivatives along the shock to obtain a boundary condition for w, a new way to modify