Employing an electrically polarizable metasurface Yeg to emulate the response of magneto-electric
surfaces is a critical step to apply the equivalence principle in a simplified form, amenable to work
at optical frequencies, and it enables nanoscale scattering wave management. Indeed, our goal is
to control the scattering signature of the metasurface in order to locally tailor the outgoing wave,
as desired by design. By engineering the metasurface texture, appropriate secondary sources
(induced surface currents) are produced on the metasurface which perform as equivalent source
distributions for the scattered wave. The metasurface design can be summarized as the synthesis
of an inhomogeneous surface admittance profile in (2.3) that transforms the impinging wavefront
into the desired scattered one. As noted above, the required admittance is generally complex,
and therefore loss and gain elements may be required to synthesize the required real portion
of Veg: As intuitively expected, this condition becomes extreme if the incident and scattered
wavefronts do not sufficiently overlap on the surface, and the surface properties are desired to be
maintained local. In this scenario, in fact, the metasurface would necessarily be required to absorb
energy in one location, and re-radiate it from somewhere else to generate the desired scattering
profile. Fortunately, in many practical applications impinging and scattered beams overlap, and
passive metasurfaces may be sufficient. In order to facilitate the physical implementation of the
structure and avoid incorporation of active elements [43], the required surface profile in these
cases may be approximated as purely imaginary (i.e. lossless), while allowing a high conversion
efficiency [44] to the desired scattering profile. The potential performance degradation in doing
this approximation from equation (2.3) may also be minimized through a round of optimization
of the obtained reactive surface profile.

Investigating equation (2.2), it is clear that, under the lossless condition of Re[Yeg] =0,
the local amplitude of reflection is unitary, and the reflection phase can span the entire
360° range by varying the magnitude of surface reactance. In view of recent advances in