being concerned about its magnitude. In contrast to this, the TO imposes strict conditions on
both the magnitude and phase characteristics of S;; and S12, as we explain below, which in turn
calls for anisotropic « and 4p MTMs. The scattering matrix/FT approach avoids these problems
altogether and is able to work with e-only materials for the lens and reflectarray problems, and is
realizable with complex (¢, j1) materials that have wideband characteristics and do not suffer from
the shortcomings of the MTMs.

A simple example of FT is the transformation of the spherical fields emanating from a point
source into a planar phase front by using a flat lens whose behaviour mimics that of a convex :
lens, for instance. The same problem when tackled by the TO leads to a relatively complex design =
and calls for MTMs that are not only difficult to realize, but lead to performance characteristics 3
that are not on par with the FT-based design, as we will demonstrate in this paper. This is true :
despite the fact that the latter design uses realistic materials, which can either be fabricated in nee)
the laboratory, or are commercially available off-the-shelf that are modified slightly to realize the :
desired material parameters. Such materials are wideband as well as relatively insensitive to the [4
polarization and incident angle of the incoming wave. DN

Finally, we will point to a new interpretation of the TO algorithm that has recently been [5
employed to design absorbers that help reduce the RCS of real-world targets. An example based aed
on this type of design strategy will be included in the paper. .

The concept of FT has been introduced in recent literature by Liu et al. [2] to manipulate wave
propagation, and it has been explained in [2] how the FT they proposed complements the TO
algorithm. (The reader is referred to the work cited above for further details.) It is useful to point
out, however, that the FT approach introduced in this work differs from the one presented in [2],