
TO-based flat lens

Figure 2. Lens problems described in the context of the generalized scattering matrix method. (Online version in colour.)

which is also a classical design. What is more important, however, is that this lens design can also
be realized—just like in the case of the convex lens—by using dielectric-only materials that are
often readily available commercially, or can be synthesized conveniently as we show below.
Next, let us change the design specification for the flat lens as follows: we now stipulate that the
flat lens perform precisely like the convex lens in its entirety, implying that the fields at the input
and output ports be identical for the convex and flat lens designs. Obviously, such a performance
of the flat lens would be highly desirable because it would deliver the proven performance of the
classical convex lens design. In fact, this is exactly the goal of the TO-based design, which has
been attempted by a number of authors [9-14]. What is not so obvious, however, is that such a
seemingly minor change in the specifications, in which we insist that the flat lens design should
not only manipulate the phase distribution at the output port but also the amplitude distribution,
has a highly significant impact on the realizability of this type of flat lens, which we refer to herein
as the TO-based design. Some of the difficulties arising in the realization of the TO design are: (i) it
calls for both dielectric and magnetic materials, (ii) these materials must be anisotropic in general,
and (iii) typically some of the values called for can only be realized by using MTMs, which can
be lossy, dispersive and narrowband, forcing us to use substitutes that are likely to compromise
the performance of the lens. It is equally important to realize that there is no simple way out of
this conundrum without paying a high price in terms of cost and complexity, and/or sacrificing
the performance of the lens. In summary, the FT approach to flat lens design in which we require
that the device transforms the electromagnetic field distribution as it traverses through the device