
roar, + 2o™, (1.1) 8
Ry 5
to get the image in figure 1b. This transformation maps a point (the coordinate (0,0)) onto a circle 4]
with radius R; and leaves everything outside of Rz unaffected. Objects can be hidden in the white
circle with radius Ry in the middle. The same car still needs 15s for the 15 blocks and it also comes
out in the same direction as before, but on the computer screen it appears as though the velocity
of the car changes inside in the central part. In regions of compressed streets, the car appears to
drive slower (i.e. measured in units of cms~! on the computer monitor), whereas it appears to
drive faster in regions of stretched streets. The latter is the case for streets going around the inner
circle, i.e. the azimuthal component of the velocity appears faster than in figure 1a. Likewise, the
radial component of the velocity appears slower than in figure 1a.
So far, everything has been fictitious in that no car in the city is actually driving faster than in
figure 1a. Here comes the trick: we turn the apparent velocity of cars on the computer screen into
an actual velocity distribution in the city. To do so, we have to ignore the fixed grid of streets and
rather consider an open area. We assume that car drivers act rationally in the sense that they take
that route which corresponds to the shortest travel time. Photons in a graded-index structure do
that anyway according to Fermat's principle. The cars will then follow exactly the same tracks as
the cars in figure 1b. The mathematics of transformation optics allows calculating explicitly the
corresponding anisotropic velocity distribution [1]. Usually for electromagnetism, however, the
result is rather cast into a distribution of the electric permittivity © and magnetic permeability
yi tensors [1]. This is much less intuitive because the phase velocity is inversely proportional
to the square root of electric permittivity times magnetic permeability and because the indices
‘azimuthal’ and ‘radial’ (they commonly refer to the polarization in electromagnetism rather than
to the propagation direction) interchange with respect to that of the velocity or wavevector.