former entailed acceptance of the latter [28,32]. He showed that the phlogiston hypothesis, which
upheld the traditional view of elemental water, was not clearly evidentially inferior to Lavoisier’s
oxygen theory and its revolutionary view of the compound nature of water [33, pp. 1-70].
He also expressed a general, epistemological scepticism about Lavoisier’s results; he cited—as
confusing the phenomenological description of facts with a hypothetical interpretation of them—
the French chemist’s excessive use of sophisticated experimental procedures, elaborate and
expensive laboratory apparatus, and overly complex ‘computation’ and ‘allowance’ to generate
the idealized data necessary for the formulation of ‘true equations’ [31, p. 132]. Although Priestley
opted for the ‘phlogistic hypothesis’, he recognized that it was ‘not without its difficulties’, but he :
insisted that it shared these difficulties with Lavoisier’s theory. Whether in the form of phlogiston :=
or caloric, each theory violated a shared epistemic commitment to a chemistry of ponderable
substances, isolable in the laboratory [28, pp. 203-205]. Priestley valued both hypotheses as
heuristic devices for the generation of new facts in a patient, humble experimental approach to nee)
God's infinite creation.

Priestley and other phlogistic chemists faulted Lavoisier not for emphasizing the importance [4
of quantitative analysis, but for narrowing the domain of chemistry to the stoichiometric DNS
determination of the relative quantities of reactants and products in chemical reactions [19, [=
pp- 207-236]. Lavoisier’s conception of the aerial domain was also considerably narrower than DB
Priestley’s doctrine of airs. Lavoisier’s understanding of the chemical nature of air was shaped
by the previous generation of French Stahlians, who worked within Hales’s problematic of the
chemical identity of elemental air. Even when he arrived, somewhat belatedly, in the early 1780s
at a clear conception of the multiplicity of chemically distinct airs, the unitary logic of elemental
air survived in his view of oxygen as the universal principle of acidity, the active ingredient in all
chemical reactions [19, pp. 51-62].