required gauge symmetry properties. This already indicates that the mathematical intricacies
associated with such models will be considerably more complex that what we handled so-far,
while we strongly suspect that that is not all: quite likely the gravitational force, requiring a
dynamical, curved space-time, will have to be added as well.
Leaving out gravity as yet, we can envision a general strategy, although other options may also
work. In general, the most promising classical models are cellular automata. These are systems
of discrete variables, living on a space-time lattice, which evolve according to some local law.
One may start with having non-interacting deterministic particles in the automaton. The best
starting point can be reached if we have these particles move with the speed of light in a multitude
of possible directions. That will not be exactly Poincaré invariant, but we suspect that, without
gravity, this may be the best we can do.
Our second step is then to cast the evolution law of these particles in terms of a Schrodinger
equation, by writing U)(5t) = e~!1*!, where the index 1 refers to the fact that here we are dealing
with only one particle. This Hamiltonian will have a spectrum ranging from —z/ét to 75t. Next,
we subject this to second quantization, as follows.
Depending on whether our particles are bosons or fermions, the particle occupation number
at each spot will have to be either an arbitrary, non-negative integer, or just +1. This allows us to
introduce (bosonic or fermionic) fields for these particles. These fields will not obey the usual Dirac
or Klein Gordon equations, but something deviating from that due to lack of Poincaré invariance.
The most important thing for the moment is that they are genuine quantum fields. The essential
result of this operation is that only the positive part of the energy spectrum is handled as particles,
but the negative energy part is interpreted as antiparticles, which flips their energies to become
positive also.
Let the second-quantized evolution operator (describing infinitely many particles) be written
as Uso (St) = 4, As the evolution law for one particle was local, we can write A=)°, a(x),