denoted. When excited at photon energy F = 3.06 eV (E > 2E;), the MPA(B) response is typical of a SF response, in contrast
to lack of SF response when excited at F = 2.54 eV (E < 27). (b) Triplet MPA(B) response in PDA film that shows a typical SF
response. (Online version in colour.)

ISC process prevails, flattens out at large field after a sharp drop at low field. This latter MPA(B)
response was interpreted in previous works as due to triplet excitons that are not entangled into
TT pairs, and therefore do not originate from a SF process.

The MPA(B) response of triplet excitons in PDA does not change across the excitation spectrum
for E> Eg. A typical triplet MPA(B) response in PDA is shown in figure 4b. The response is
very similar to that in DOO-PPV excited at E > 2Ey (figure 4a), which we interpreted above as
originating from HE-SF. We thus conclude that most triplet excitons in PDA are generated via SF,
and this explains the ultrafast PA triplet formation in this polymer [16]. As a matter of fact, it is
conceivable that the PA from an entangled TT pair is very similar to that of isolated triplet excitons
(S. Mazumdar 2014, personal communication). We therefore believe that the PA band in PDA film
that is formed in the sub-picosecond time domain originates from TT pairs, rather than from
isolated triplet excitons. It is worth mentioning that the lowest lying state in the TT manifold of
PDA is in fact the 2Ag, and therefore the picosecond PA dynamics unravels the internal conversion
1By > 2Ag [16]. The 2Ag dissociation into two separated triplets may occur at a longer time, and
being endothermic might need a defect on the polymer chain, such as chain twist for example.

In conclusion, we investigated the singlet exciton fission process in both luminescent and
non-luminescent polymers using a variety of steady-state optical spectroscopies; most notably,
EXPA(q) spectroscopy and the MPA(B) technique. We found that the SF in the luminescent DOO-
PPV polymer is non-resonant, namely does not occur at the optical gap, as Eg < 2Ey. Instead, the