wrote this formula in its cosine form, but it was subsequently changed to the accepted sine form
after working with his father William Bragg’s ionization spectrometer. I believe that this change
was because in a spectrometer it is natural to measure angles of deflection from a zero position
defined by the incident beam and this was 90° from Lawrence Bragg’s initial choice of angles).
Interestingly as late as 1913 Laue was still thinking that a white incident beam would cause
uniform fogging of the X-ray film, whereas it is easy to see that Bragg’s Law picks out from
a white beam only those wavelengths that satisfy the equation. It is an interesting thought to
consider that had a single wavelength really been involved as originally thought by Laue, then
Bragg’s Law shows that with a stationary crystal it is highly unlikely that it would have been
satisfied and X-ray diffraction would not have been discovered when it was. Laue would not
have received his Nobel Prize, nor probably would the Braggs in 1915!

Now the reason why I have mentioned this early work of Laue is because in fact, to his credit,
he was not completely wrong in his assertion that secondary radiation was, or better could be,
involved. It is just that the techniques available at the time would not have enabled this to be
observed. An excellent account of the history of this period in the field of crystallography can be
read in the book by Authier [11].

It was in 1914 that William Bragg first observed, using his ionization spectrometer, that
when a beam of X-rays was selectively reflected from a crystal of diamond, there was a small
amount of absorption of the radiation transmitted at the reflection angle. While most experiments
used a beam of X-rays that was reasonably parallel, Rutherford & Andrade [12] observed both
reflection and absorption, using a point source of divergent y-rays emanating from radium with
a crystal of rock salt. This enabled them to make a precise measurement of the wavelength of the
monochromatic radiation. Between 1916 and 1917, in a series of papers, Seemann [13,14] used a