In spite of this, there is ample evidence that magnetic fields in highly conducting ionized :
astrophysical objects, like stars and galactic discs, show evidence of changes in topology, i.e.
‘magnetic reconnection’, on dynamical time scales [3-5]. Historically, magnetic reconnection
research was motivated by observations of the solar corona [6-8] and this influenced attempts
to find peculiar conditions conducive for flux conservation violation, e.g. special magnetic field
configurations or special plasma conditions. For instance, Priest & Forbes [5] showed examples of
magnetic configurations that produce fast reconnection and much work has been done showing
how reconnection can be accelerated in plasmas with very small collision rates [9-13] (see also
reviews [14-16] and references therein). However, it is clear that reconnection is a ubiquitous
process taking place in various astrophysical environments. For instance, magnetic reconnection
can be inferred from the existence of large-scale dynamo activity inside stellar interiors [17,18]. We
would argue that it is also required to enable the eddy-type motions in magnetohydrodynamic
(MHD) turbulence, e.g. in the Goldreich & Sridhar turbulence [19]. In fact, it is easy to show that
without fast magnetic reconnection, magnetized fluids would behave like Jello or felt, rather than
as a fluid.

It is clear that solar flares [20] are just one vivid example of reconnection activity. Other
dramatic reconnection events attributed to reconnection include y-ray bursts (see [21] for a
review), while reconnection routinely takes place essentially everywhere both in collisional and
collisionless magnetized plasmas. Incidentally, magnetic reconnection occurs rapidly in computer
simulations due to the high values of resistivity (or numerical resistivity) that are employed at the
resolutions currently achievable. Therefore, if there are situations where magnetic fields reconnect
slowly, numerical simulations do not adequately reproduce the realities of astrophysical plasmas.
This means that if collisionless reconnection is the only way to make reconnection rapid, then
numerical simulations of many astrophysical processes including those of the ISM, which is