supported by empirical verification. For more details, see Zemplén’s ‘The history of vision, colour & ne]
light theories’ [9]. DNS

(a) Stage 1 13

In this artfully naive account, Newton reports that he started out by observing how a circular
beam produces a rectangular spectrum on being passed through a prism (even though it is more
pear-shaped). He then appears to examine and dismiss reasonable explanations, substantiating
his arguments with quantitative calculations. What he is actually doing is rejecting Descartes’
arguments that colours are modified by the medium: Newton leaves unstated the alternative
possibility that the sine laws of refraction are at fault. By comparing rays with tennis balls
(then small cork balls covered with woollen cloth), he implies that light consists of particles;
and by giving precise data, he conceals the fact that whereas some of his figures are measured
(how remains unspecified), others are calculated. Claiming to have eliminated all the arguments
that would favour a medium-based explanation, he sets up what he calls a crucial experiment,
although (as his critics soon pointed out) it is not at all clear which two hypotheses Newton
is discriminating between. Ostensibly testing his suggestion that rays are unequally refracted—
significantly, at this stage he does not mention colours—in actuality he is confirming it. Although
no illustration is given in the article, figure 2 reproduces a sketch made by Newton showing
how he converted his study into a large camera obscura by letting a small ray of sunlight
pass through a hole in the shutters. His innovation is to use two prisms sequentially. By
boring a hole in a screen between them, he singles out individual sections of the first prism’s
spectrum; these then pass through the second prism to arrive at different places on a second
screen. From his demonstration of differential refraction, Newton draws a major theoretical
inference: light is, he writes (his italics), ‘a Heterogeneous mixture of differently refrangible rays’