resistance to residual stress driven cracking. However, very high levels of densification which
correspond to Poisson’s ratio below say 0.2 lead mostly to the formation of ring-cone cracks at
moderate loads and are often associated with glasses that are not easy to process (high melting
points and high viscosity). Oxide silicate glasses mostly contain alkali and alkaline earth cations
which ease melting and confer on the glass desirable characteristics in terms of water-corrosion
resistance, refractive index, thermal expansion, thermal conductivity, production cost, etc. Most
of these secondary oxides result in the occurrence of non-bridging oxygen ions. On the one hand,
this makes the atomic network more compliant and increases the atomic packing density. On the
other hand, this leads to an increase in v [17] that is believed to favour shear deformation [3,4] but
reduces the room for densification. This rise of v is mostly detrimental up to approximately 0.29
(figure 5) as it results in an increase of the residual stresses. Only for glasses with v over say 0.35
would this transition from densification to isochoric shear induce a ductile behaviour. As a matter
of fact, silicon oxynitride glasses with v typically as large as 0.3 [16] and in spite of an exceptional
mechanical performance (values of E as large as 150GPa are common for rare-earth-containing
silicon oxynitride glasses) are very sensitive to radial-median cracking (figure 1).

In order to reduce the intensity of the stress field that builds up on indentation, and especially
the blister field, it is inferred from the physics of the permanent deformation processes (figure 5)
that Poisson’s ratio in the 0.25-0.33 range should be avoided, unless the E/H ratio is smaller than
say 7 (figure 9). There are glasses with v larger than 0.33, for instance in metallic systems [86],
but also possibly in oxynitride ones. In such materials, shear plasticity is promoted and favours a
ductile behaviour. The fracture energy of bulk metallic glasses with v > 0.32 exceeds that of oxide
glasses by 2-4 orders of magnitude [87]. This is, in technical terms, another view of resilience. A
regain of resilience is thus expected at large v.
