with modelling efforts to understand mechanism 3 and 4, relatively little effort has gone into
modelling cluster localization and fully account for effects of heterogeneities [42].

The onset of macroscopic localization serves as an effective indicator of a material’s ductility
for engineering purposes because it is the precursor to failure and it marks the limit of the
uniform strain that can be imposed on the material. Nevertheless, there appears to be considerable
confusion in the literature between the two types of plastic localizations: macroscopic localization
driven by damage softening (mechanism 3) where plastic flow engulfs the voids in the band whose
width is set largely by void spacing, and void coalescence (mechanism 4) where the band width is
more narrow with continuing plastic deformation limited to the ligaments between neighbouring
voids. The distinction between these two modes of localization was evident in the pioneering
computational work on void growth and localization of Koplik & Needleman [43] and Tvergaard :
[44]. Perhaps the more recent confusion surrounding the two modes stems from the fact that =
coalescence may occur as a secondary localization within an earlier localization and that the :3
earlier work did not attempt to quantify the distinction between them. As noted above, this is
one of the primary objectives of this paper. In addition, in the discussion of the results, we raise nee)
the issue of whether the class of models used here, and in almost all computational studies to :
date which employ aligned periodic arrays of voids, might be too idealized to realistically capture [4
when macroscopic localization precedes coalescence. DN

The model, along with details related to its numerical implementation issues, is presented in [sz
§2 with some details given in the electronic supplementary material. Results of the simulations D8
are presented and discussed in depth in §3. Section 4 contains the final summary, discussion of .
open questions and suggestions for further research.
