wn
DR
Figure 8. Linearized damping coefficients in roll (B44) and heave (B3) for different forcing amplitudes from the semi-nonlinear Do
and nonlinear hybrid methods for forced roll oscillation in (a) and forced heave oscillation in (b). The period is T = 0.96 s for : Ss
all simulations in (a) and T = 0.75 s for all simulations in (b) corresponding to the roll natural period and the heave natural : S
period, respectively. Wave radiation damping is calculated from the energy of the outgoing waves. In (a), results from the three :8
different meshes used for the different wave steepnesses are given. (Online version in colour.) [3

damping by the semi-nonlinear and nonlinear methods is quite close. However, the total damping
predicted by the two methods differs significantly except when the roll amplitude goes to zero
and the damping is mainly due to wave radiation. The difference between the total damping
and the wave radiation damping in the nonlinear hybrid method is mainly due to vortex
shedding, i.e. eddy-making damping. It is a well-known fact that viscous shear stresses have
a small influence on roll damping. The eddy-making damping depends on the instantaneous
positions, velocities and strengths of shed vorticity. The latter fact can be qualitatively indicated
by using a thin free-shear layer and boundary layer method as presented by Faltinsen &
Pettersen [23]. It follows then that the motion of the separation points as it is accounted for in
the nonlinear method causes a different expression for the amount of shed vorticity. Figure 8b
shows the heave damping coefficient B33 predicted by the two hybrid methods as a function of
heave amplitude.

In the semi-nonlinear hybrid method, the governing equations in the potential-flow domain
are linearized, meaning that contributions from the nonlinear advection terms in the Navier-
Stokes equation are not communicated to the potential flow domain. The consequence is that the
normal velocity and pressure are continuous across the interface, while the tangential velocity