nonlinear inverse problems under a range of non-convex constraints. We have applied the method
to the inversion of the nonlinear X-ray transmission model to solve X-ray computed tomography
reconstruction. This not only allowed us to address the beam-hardening problem but also allowed
us to reconstruct images from few projections. Extensive simulation results on synthetic data have
shown that advanced non-convex constraints, such as a combination of wavelet sparsity and non-
negative matrix factorization, can have significant benefits over standard positivity constraints
alone. While these non-convex constraints do not guarantee globally optimal solutions, we could
show that when we initialized our method with a good linear reconstruction, then the non-
convexly constraint nonlinear reconstructions were often better. However, the improvement also :
comes at the cost of increased computational complexity. For real data, inverting the nonlinear =
model often took hundreds of iterations to achieve the best performance. =

The fact that TV regularization outperforms even our best nonlinear model-based estimate {8
shows the power to the TV constraint for objects with uniform material density as we simulated :
here. It is likely that the inclusion of such a TV regularization term in our nonlinear model aa)
will offer similar benefits, especially when combined with the non-negative matrix factorization Dw
constraint. Using joint constraints has also demonstrated clear benefits. While we enforced these :
here with consecutive projections, recent studies (not reported here) have shown that an approach :3
that averages the projections onto the individual constraints tends to perform better than the :8
approach used here, though a detailed study of how this works in the tomographic setting is still :
to be undertaken.

The main drawback of our approach currently is the slow convergence due to the complex
nature of the non-convex cost function. This was here addressed with a sensible initialization
approach, though additional benefits are likely if better optimization strategies are adopted.