
effects of climate engineering [47]; or, on a longer time scale, from our current generation to
future ones [48]. Another concern is that of a ‘slippery slope’ effect, which claims that research
will lead to more research and, eventually, to the implementation of a climate engineering
technology. Moreover, it is frequently suggested that interventions in the complex climate system
would create new, or intensify existing, conflict potentials within and across societies. Models
have indicated that stratospheric SRM would inevitably have a global climatic effect, but alter
regional temperature and precipitation unevenly [49]. Resulting (perceived) impacts upon lives
and livelihoods may escalate into political conflicts, with strong implications for interstate
relationships. A related worry is the potential for unilateral or even clandestine deployment
of stratospheric SRM [50-52]. Regarding the international political dynamics surrounding SRM
deployment, some have argued that SRM cannot be aligned with democratic governance and
cannot become a ‘governable object’ [53,54]. Others have pointed out that SRM might in fact fit
well with the current international political order, in which authority is increasingly centralized
for technocratic problem solving in institutions of global governance, and that critiques of SRM
often seem to be more concerned with the changes it might prevent than with the changes it might
introduce [55-57].

In the absence of strong governmental positions, the strongest positions on governance come
from within the research community itself. It should not be inferred that the research community
is united. Some are far more pessimistic about the potential impacts of climate engineering, and
tend to argue for severe limitations on field tests and prohibition of large-scale deployment
[58-60]. Even among those who hold that deployment should be maintained as a potential
option, there is a wide spectrum of opinion on how to calculate the allowable risks for field
tests, on whether to situate governance for testing (or deployment) within one or a combination