corresponding term is used to give more stability to the main curve). The Gaussian term is needed
to give more weight to the central part of the window, ice. if there are two or more peaks in one
window, to select the support of one of them. Despite its complexity, the method provides for
good flexibility and the possibility of accurate tuning. Based on the characteristic variations of
the fundamental frequencies, the optimal parameters were determined to be A =5,« =0 for ECG
and 4 = 10,« = 10 for respiration. Figure 1 shows examples of the extracted supports of the SWT
curves corresponding to the ECG and respiration first harmonics.

The advantage of using SWT for phase and frequency extraction over the more commonly
used marked events (MEs) method is that one obtains phase and frequency values at the same
sampling frequency as the signal, whereas the ME method gives values only at particular points
(e.g. peaks). Thus, the effective sampling frequency of the characteristics extracted by MEs is,
in fact, the (time-varying) frequency at which the MEs occur, i.e. the reciprocal of the current
interpeak interval (usually around 1 Hz for ECG and 0.25 Hz for respiration); all other values,
obtained by interpolation to match the original sampling frequency, are unphysical.


Note that heart activity is sometimes modelled through use of the integral pulse frequency
modulation (IPFM) model [42] which, in effect, assumes that only the R-peak positions in the ECG
are informative. Within this framework, much effort has been directed towards the reconstruction
of instantaneous heart frequency (IHF), treated as the input signal. These methods involve the
analysis of an RR interval series or a pulse-train equivalent of the ECG [43], from which the
continuous IHF is obtained by low-pass filtering, spline interpolation or other techniques [42,44].
With such an approach, the interbeat information is necessarily neglected, so that the IHF cannot
be obtained with a physical sampling frequency higher than that at which the R-peaks occur. In