The advantage of the phase extracted from SWT over the commonly used Hilbert phase is
that the former can be already regarded as a true phase, whereas the latter is a protophase
(see [40] for definitions and a discussion of the differences). This is because the SWT phase is
extracted from the fundamental frequency and thus is uncorrupted by higher harmonics. As a
result, it is almost unaffected by the protophase-to-phase transformation [40], and it does not
change (up to a constant phase shift) if we apply an invertible nonlinear transformation to the
oscillatory component. For example, it will be the same for sin ¢(t) and exp[sin ¢(f)], as well as
for the respiration signals as simultaneously measured by belt and by thermistor, whereas the
corresponding Hilbert phases will differ.

Figure 2 shows typical phase and frequency results extracted by this method in comparison
with the values extracted by other methods. The advantage over Hilbert phase extraction is
clearly evident in figure 2c,d; in figure 2c, we illustrate the well-known fact that Hilbert phase
extraction is inapplicable to the ECG, whose phase is usually obtained using the ME method.
For clarity, the ME phase is not shown, but the difference is clearly visible in figure 2e,f, where
the frequencies extracted by SWT and ME are compared. It should be noted, however, that one
might apply the Hilbert transform to the signal after bandpass filtering in the region where
the first harmonic resides, and also obtain a well-behaved phase; but the frequency calculated
from it will not, in practice, be accurate. Moreover, when there are additional frequency
components present, or where the main frequency varies by more than a factor of two (as is
often the case for respiration), the frequency range of the first harmonic will inevitably contain
additional components or harmonics. By contrast, SWT phase extraction uses a narrow but time-
dependent adaptive frequency range, picking up only the main curve and thus avoiding the
above problems.
