assuming that they are not completely strapped for cash, I would argue that buying good
equipment is an excellent long-term investment. It will help to get an earlier promotion and rise
in salary, which will soon outweigh the money spent. A professor earns quite a bit more, year on
year, than a senior lecturer.

Another thing: for goodness sake learn to touch-type now while you are young and your brain
is receptive. I never did this, and I have wasted a lot of time writing books and papers as I type, —
ploddingly, with two fingers. Nowadays, with a research student (or indeed with my son-in- {3B
law, Allan McRobie) sitting at a computer perhaps hundreds of miles away talking to me on the : Se
telephone, I might say, ‘I guess we ought to find Avril’s views about this from her latest paper’. As Ss
Iam speaking, I hear fingers flying over a keyboard, and by the time I have finished my sentence ree
the young whizz-kid says, ‘Yes I’ve got it in front of me right now’. What a fast world we do =
live in! As a matter of fact, to help with the writing of this article, largely text, I have just bought :g
a DRAGON software package so that I can dictate it into a microphone. For this paragraph, the [8
software, which has been learning the remnants of my Yorkshire accent for a week or so, made :
only a single mistake.

Most serious researchers have devised their own special way of finding a time or place where
they can study undisturbed, as I remember Tom Kane remarking after a keen game of tennis
at Stanford. I forget his personal solution, but it was clearly effective; during his long career,
Tom devised a new formulation of the Newtonian equations of motion that led to some of the
world’s best dynamics software programs. He received the D’Alembert Award of the ASME for
his contributions to mechanics in 2005. Years later, when I asked Stephen Wiggins, now at the
University of Bristol, how he found time to write so many books on nonlinear dynamics, he said
he simply got up 3 hours before everyone else (which would certainly not suit me), and wrote a