5 sodium 2268.0 (882.0) 319.4 (249.6) 494.0 (191.3) _— _—
water 422.5 (141.4) 119.1 (36.4) 189.0 (72.3) _— _—

Analysing RDFs and CNs allows for probing structural changes and atom redistributions in
response to the electric field (figure 3 and table 1). In sulfur-sulfur RDFs, the peak diminished
under the strongest electric field, resulting in visibly lower CNs. This reduction was likely
mediated by the interplay between three phenomena, namely: (i) enhanced separation of the
sulfonate groups, due to morphological changes of the membrane; (ii) local depletion of sodium
counterions, which migrated in the direction of the electric field; and (iii) local depletion of
water molecules that accompanied the counterions’ migration. Water migration was also visible
from the sulfur-oxygen in water RDFs and CNs, especially for the strongest electric field. While
the location of the peak did not vary, the magnitude of the peak decreased due to the electric
field. This was potentially due to the fact that some of the water molecules migrated along
with counterions, in contrast to the vast majority that maintained their relative arrangement
with respect to the sulfonate groups. A similar behaviour was captured by the oxygen-oxygen
RDFs and CNs for water molecules. With respect to sodium, the sulfur-sodium RDFs were
characterized by two peaks up to small values of the electric field. Increasing the field to the
largest value caused the second peak to disappear, likely as a result of the emergence of the
region depleted of counterions, and promoted the occurrence of a new peak, possibly related
to counterions’ accumulation at the boundary.

In addition to structural metrics, we also studied the transport of counterion and water. In
the absence of an electric field and the electrodes walls, we examined the true self-diffusion
coefficients, computed from the mean-squared displacement (MSD) by following the approach
in [46]. MSD measures the square of the total distance an atom moves from its original position.