Figure 7. Analysis of simulations with the FAMOUS climate model under a scenario of 1% per annum increasing CO,
concentration. (a) Fraction of variance of local SAT explained by GMST from linear regressions of annual mean SAT on annual
mean GMST over a time horizon of 140 years (i) and 20 years (ii) from a single ensemble member. (b) The diversity of SAT 15-year
trend patterns from two simulations which both exhibit a trend in GMST of 0.20 K per decade.

in GMST (of 0.20 K per decade). The spatial pattern of SAT trend in the northern hemisphere is
nearly opposite in these two realizations. For precipitation, the relative importance of internal
variability is even greater (i.e. the signal to noise for precipitation change is lower [43]), with the
result that local trends of many decades’ duration may be dominated by internal variability rather
than the forced response [19,30,43].

The value of GMST as a predictor of local climate has relevance to detection and attribution of
climate change [34]. As was noted in §2, the fact that GMST accounts for a large fraction (greater
than 60%) of the observed variance in local SAT on decadal and longer timescales over most of the
planet, is not an obvious result. Comparing figure 2 with figure 4 shows that GMST accounts for a
much larger fraction of the observed variance in local SAT than would be expected if changes were
governed entirely by internal variability. This result implies that decadal changes in SAT over the
instrumental record have been substantially shaped by a forced response (figure 5). Thus figure 2
provides a simple form of climate change detection. This result could be formalized by developing
a quantitative description of the characteristics of internal variability, either on a purely local basis
or taking into account spatial patterns (e.g. figure 4). In view of the large diversity in simulated
internal variability discussed in §3, such a description could not be very tightly bounded, but
would nevertheless provide a null hypothesis against which the observed climate change signal
could be tested.
