a clinically informed context. While different stages of severity of a specific cardiac disease
may show a clear association with advanced computation-derived biomarkers (e.g. entropy
measures or model parameter values), a number of other conditions, both physiological and
pathological, may show biomarker variations similar to those observed in cardiopathic patients.
For example, autonomic changes following congestive heart failure, which may comprise
sympathetic activation and parasympathetic withdrawal, can also be observed in healthy subjects
in e.g. postural changes, or physically or mentally stressful conditions. This may lead to
inconsistencies due to the variety of experimental set-ups and methodological approaches used
in validation studies.

Moreover, while automatic advanced computational approaches may achieve better-than-
human performance for the diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases, several high-performing models
generate results that are difficult to interpret by clinicians. As a matter of fact, it has been often
proven extremely arduous to retrieve intuitive information that may explain physio-pathological
mechanisms, as well as to identify model weaknesses and generalization properties, or to extract
biological insights from computational ‘black box’ approaches.

Recently proposed machine-learning methods rely on the availability of large amounts of
high-quality training data, which therefore may not be fully representative of the target patient
population, because the latter are affected by various types of bias and noise that are typical
of real-world scenarios like e.g. clinical environments. Moreover, methodologies for applying
artificial intelligence (AI) tools (e.g. deep neural networks) to general diagnostics (e.g. the
interpretation of signs and symptoms, past medical history, laboratory results and clinical course)
and treatment selection are still under development. Also, while complex and nonlinear advanced
signal processing strategies have contributed to the technical understanding and description of