due to interpolation. More recently [11], the relaxation was applied at the finer scope of the
irreducible representations (irreps) of the rotation group which are the minimal spaces closed under
spatial rotation [16]. At the leading order, the second moment can be decomposed into its traceless
component and a unit tensor which are the minimal components that can be independently
relaxed. The two relaxation times are identified with the shear and bulk viscosity coefficients [11].
Although independently developed as a phenomenological model for the general Boltzmann
collision model, the SMRT model is in spirit similar to the model of Gross & Jackson [4] in the
sense that both expand the collision operator in terms of a complete set of orthogonal functions
and define the collision process in the spectral space. However, a number of distinctions exist. By
taking advantage of the correspondence between the moments and discrete velocities [13,14],
the SMRT model is readily translated into a discrete-velocity model that can be used in LB.
Nevertheless, as the exact eigen-functions of the full Boltzmann collision operator are largely
unknown, the individual relaxation of the Hermite moments is only justified by the fact that
the Chapman-Enskog calculation indeed yields the correct Navier-Stokes-Fourier equations [10].
Numerical tests are necessary to verify the effectiveness of SMRT in the non-equilibrium regime.

The main purpose of the present work is to give a coherent and detailed presentation of the
multi-relaxation model. In addition, using the fact that the irreducible components of a fully
symmetric tensor are its traceless components [17], the tensor decomposition beyond the second
rank is given. For the third moments, there are at most two relaxation times, of which one is
identified with the relaxation rate of the translational kinetic energy while the other has no explicit
hydrodynamic correspondence. For the fourth moments, there could be three independent
relaxation times, all of which have no hydrodynamic correspondence. It was shown in a paper
submitted after the present one [18] that these hydrodynamically insignificant relaxation times
can be significant in the non-equilibrium flow regime. It is also shown that similar to the well-