than one relevant network’s feature, e.g. local or global properties. The resulting network maximal : s
modularity can be evaluated as a function of the parameter ¢, thus tuning the weights in D, (41, d2) 1 oe

to the best structural result. Such a tuning is not an artefact, as the resulting classification shows.
In fact, it is possible to observe a good classification of the different communities of ZKCN.
Remarkably, for the case of C. elegans, the method precisely separates all the metabolic pathways
and intrapathway functions. Consequently, such a detailed function identification represents an
improvement with respect to the GO classification available at KEGG.

In our paper, we explored two archetypal systems used widely in the literature to test
methods for community detection in complex networks. In particular, we found that our method
is useful to detect communities in sparse networks such as the metabolic network discussed
above. In fact we found that weighting dissimilarities perform better than several of the methods
recently published [8-18]. An analysis of larger networks would offer further insights into the
dissimilarity’s performance; however, such an analysis is outside the scope of this work and is left
for a future publication. However, we analysed a number of different networks. We observed that
when a network with more diverse characteristics is analysed the method adapts better and the
modularity improves, as observed in our analysis of ZKCN (Qmax = 0.405) and C. elegans (Qmax =
0.717). In particular, our analysis considered different networks whose results are not included
here but will be reported elsewhere. Such analysis includes (but is not limited to) the networks of
Candida albicans (Qmax = 0.733), Dictyostelium discoideum (Qmax = 0.744), Cryptosporidium hominis
(Qmax = 0.549), Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Qmax = 0.751) and Entamoeba histolytica (Qmax = 0.776).

The current approach could be generalized to more than two measures, i.e. taking into account
n different features to build a new measure