sign of this feedback is uncertain for the LGM. Further investigation is needed to determine which
model result is more realistic, based on improved understanding of the processes involved. This
figure also highlights that the model spread is larger for the SW cloud feedback parameter than
for the surface albedo feedback parameter, as is the case for future climate projections [4,11].
The cloud feedback is therefore a major source of uncertainty whatever the period considered.
The ranking of the models is also quite similar for warm and cold climates for the individual
feedbacks parameters (within the error bars of individual estimates, table 1). However, there is no
systematic and direct ranking between the LGM model results when comparing their respective
LGM cooling and the estimates of their climate sensitivity [4]. One of the main reasons is certainly
that the relative strength of each feedback is different for those contrasted climates. This should


be related to the fact that the total LGM forcing is a mixture of LW (greenhouse gases) and SW
(albedo) forcings that triggers each feedback differently compared with future climate projections
that are mainly driven by LW forcing resulting from increase greenhouse gas concentration in the
atmosphere. Therefore, despite the ranking for individual feedbacks being similar, the ranking
between models is different when considering the sum of all the feedbacks and, thereby, model
climate sensitivities. This has strong impacts on our views on the possibility to use regional
evaluations of LGM surface temperatures to constrain future climate sensitivity. This might just
be a false analogy. New approaches should therefore be based on improved understanding
of the feedbacks, in order to find how to best use the regional information from past climate
reconstructions to provide efficient constraints on the evaluation of key model processes and
thereby on future climate sensitivity.

The comparison of the results obtained for PMIP2 and PMIP3 experiments (figure 1) also