ordinate, respectively. Following the concept of fundamental groups in ยง2c, the data manifold in
figure 4a has a fundamental group 7 ~ Z3, geometrically represented by three holes in the figure.
After phase transition, the manifold tends to have a fundamental group 7; ~ 2, by filling up the
big hole and still retaining the two small ones, as shown in figure 4b. A uniform partition, shown
in figure 4a,b, generates a symbolic system that is recurrent for 7 ~ Z and ergodic for 2 ~ 2.
This shows that, even with a simple partitioning of the phase space, the distinction between the
two topological invariants (i.e. 7 ~ Z and 1 ~ Z7) of the data manifolds becomes quite obvious
in the symbolic dynamics setting.

Remark 3.1. Following figure 4a,b, the Lorenz attractor may have many separate trajectories
that could look like connected regions. The (possibly existing) holes between trajectories, which
are very small relative to the big holes, have been ignored in this paper, because their existence
is questionable due to the presence of numerical noise. In fact, implementation of persistent
homology method is also expected to yield 2; ~ Z5 for figure 4a and 1 ~ Z? for figure 4b.

Figure 5a shows the bifurcation diagram exhibiting the Poincare section in the (x,dx/dt) phase
space as a function of the parameter p of the Lorenz attractor. It is noticed here that a phase
transition occurs around p ~ 166. This change point is clearly detected by using the three norms,
given by equations (3.1)-(3.3), as shown in figure 5b-d, respectively.

In the nominal phase (i.e. Phase 1), although the symbolic system is recurrent, it is not ergodic;
this is so because the only visited set of symbols is a symbolic subset B, ie. BG A and the
remaining symbols, belonging to A\B, are not visited in Phase 1. In other words, the symbolic
system restricted to B, which is persistently visited, would be ergodic in Phase 1, as pointed out
in remark 2.24. Thus, by choosing an appropriate reference state transition matrix for computing