distance was substantially larger during the ‘lockdown’ period (between March and May).
The variance of the distribution changed from 1.19 + 0.02 during lockdown to 1.08 + 0.03 after
lockdown when excluding weekend trips and from 1.22 + 0.005 during lockdown to 1.03 + 0.02
after lockdown when excluding workday trips. This finding reveals that, during periods of
‘lockdown’, there are more heterogeneity in the effective distance between cities, as it is more
unlikely to travel to holiday destinations, and more likely to travel to close-by destinations.
Overall, we observe that the lockdown has a substantial impact on the network structure only
if holiday trips are included.

Let us then consider the shape of the distributions. Interestingly, by comparing the
distributions across components, we observe substantial differences. We observe that, when
including holiday and weekend trips, the distributions display a bimodal shape (figure 3c). A
possible explanation for the observed bimodality lies in the fact that, when it comes to holiday
and weekend travel, certain cities act as travel bridges, because they are located along major travel
roads, and connect travellers from their home locations to their travel destinations, while other
cities act as origins or destinations of the trip. In the former, the distribution of effective distances
is extremely unbalanced, because trips occur mostly along one preferential travel axis. In the latter,
the distribution of effective distances is more even. Instead, when including holiday and workday
trips (figure 3c), the distributions are mostly unimodal. This may be due to the inherent structure
of commuting trips, which dominate this network. In fact, commuting flows from a given origin
are relatively evenly distributed, because the chance to commute at a given distance decreases
with the distance [30]. Finally, the distributions including holiday and workday trips (figure 3a) are
bimodal, even though the bimodality is less pronounced compared to the case when weekend
trips are included. Importantly, we observe that the ‘lockdown’ does not affect the characteristic
shapes of the distributions substantially. Finally, we note that the effective distance between pairs