In line with previous results [2-9,11], we found that periods characterized by stringent
restrictions, e.g. ‘lockdown’, resulted in a drastic reduction of overall travel. However, periods
of ‘lockdown’ did not affect all components of travel equally. In particular, we found that, while
the component capturing workday travel experienced a dramatic reduction during lockdown, the
component describing weekend behaviour experienced an increase in the same periods. This result
is consistent across all countries under study, suggesting that individuals’ travel behaviour during
periods of lockdown was more similar to their behaviour during weekends in periods without
restrictions. However, due to differences in data collection between the mobile phone and the
Facebook datasets, the finding has to be interpreted in different ways across the countries under
study. The data collected by the Danish mobile phone operators records all trips, including those
within the same city. Thus, in Denmark, the data reliably describe travel behaviour, revealing that,
during lockdown, people would travel mostly for leisure (e.g. walks, jogs and trips to weekend
travel destinations). This observation is in line with the fact that, in Denmark, visits to parks
increased during periods of lockdown according to mobility data made available by the Google
Mobility Reports [31]. Denmark, in fact, experienced less stringent travel restrictions compared to
the other European countries under study: ‘stay-at-home’ orders were never applied, and travel
between different cities and regions remained always allowed [14]. Despite the surge in visits to
parks and the increase of weekend-like mobility patterns during the first Danish lockdown, the
containment strategies were effective. This results suggest that the correlations between mobility
and social behaviour are non-trivial, implying that containment strategies aiming at reducing
mobility do not necessarily target social behaviour.

Owing to the way it is pre-processed, the data released by Facebook does not account for
within-city trips. Furthermore, the Facebook data does not allow to distinguish two different
situations: individuals staying home versus individuals travelling within their home city. For this