now been identified experimentally, including the infamous Higgs boson, the W- and Z-bosons,
the photons, gluons, quarks, neutrinos and the charged leptons with the electron being the most
prominent example. The SM is extremely successful and describes physical phenomena over a
large distance range from 10~!8 m (the distances probed at particle colliders) to 1076 m (the size
of the observable universe) without any contradiction to experiment. The predictions of the SM
have been experimentally confirmed up to 11 digits of precision, such that it can be considered
the most precisely tested theory in the history of science.

These are amazing results, in particular because there are extensive world-wide efforts to
detect physics beyond the SM, e.g. with experiments such as the LHC at CERN [1], Belle II at
KEK [2], CEBAF at JLab [3], XENONIT at LNGS [4] or DUNE at Fermilab [5]. These experimental

searches are strongly motivated by the fact that, despite its success, the SM cannot explain : >
several experimentally observed physical phenomena [6]. Probably the most striking example : =
is the asymmetry between matter and antimatter in our universe, which leads to our sheer : S
existence. This asymmetry requires a substantial amount of CP-violation, which is orders of a)
magnitude larger than predicted by the SM. At the same time, the SM predicts CP-violation for : <
the weak and strong interactions, but no such violation has been observed for the latter. The : >
SM also cannot explain why the masses of the elementary particles are strongly hierarchical [Ss
and why the strengths of the fundamental interactions differ by many orders of magnitude. : S
Finally, the theoretical origins of the mysterious dark matter, dark energy and neutrino masses :s
remain fundamentally open questions of the SM. In addition to these observational puzzles of aa)

the SM, there are also several theoretical issues, most importantly the missing UV-completion
of quantum gravity [6]. Moreover, the scalar field theory that describes the Higgs boson might