an enhancement of the algorithm performance, as well as precise targeting of irreducible
representation sectors [26-28].

Lattice gauge symmetries differ from global ones, since they have quasi-local supports and are
typically homogeneous, yielding a combined Lie algebra of generators which grows extensively
with the system size [29,30]. Nevertheless, several physical contexts have been found where TN
are an exact description of the ground states of gauge-invariant Hamiltonians (e.g. 2D toric code
that is an Ising gauge theory) [31]. More recently, this framework has been successfully applied
to LGT-related problems. In fact, TN represent microscopically the local Hilbert spaces and at
the same time are tailored on a real-space wave function representation, so they can be used to
describe real-space locality and local symmetries altogether [32-35].

As previously mentioned, TN is naturally free from the sign problem [36]. In fact, for one-
dimensional systems a number of successful studies have demonstrated the power of TN for
HEP problems [37-39] and lattice gauge theory calculations [40-46]. In particular, it has been
shown that TN provide accurate determinations of mass spectra and that they can map out
a broad temperature region. They can also treat chemical potentials and topological terms
and they have been used to study realtime dynamics [43,47,48]. TN also allows the study of
entanglement properties and the entropy (leading in turn to the determination of central charges)
in gauge theories, which brings new aspects of gauge theories into focus [49,50]. By quantitatively
validating quantum simulators in out-of-equilibrium situations, even if only in lower dimensions,
MPS and TN methods play a very important role towards establishing quantum simulators as
reliable tools in quantum physics. Finally, recently the applications of TN to higher-dimensional
LGTs has start becoming within reach of the available algorithms and numerical resources
[51-57], providing an important stimulus to further develop these techniques and explore their