The second approach is based on the determination of appropriate patient-specific boundary
conditions to adjust the mathematical model. Ideally, these conditions should be obtained
directly from instrumental measurements in the course of patient examination. In particular, the
blood velocity and related quantities are possible to obtain with the use of Doppler ultrasound
[24] or phase-contrast magnetic resonance [25]. In that case, the blood velocity is integrated
across the arterial lumen and recorded as a transient flow or velocity profile at the inlet or
outlet boundaries. The direct measurement of blood pressure in the heart vessels provides the
applanation tonometry [26] as well as the angiocatheter insertion [27] that is often used for
invasive calculation of an FFR (fractional functional reserve) of the damaged artery. It is worth
emphasizing the importance of these methods for obtaining patient-specific boundary conditions,
which makes the CFD simulation as realistic as possible.

In fact, the overwhelming majority of CAD patients are examined using a relatively
simple and cheap but affordable method of X-ray contrast angiography. This method provides
good visualization of the coronary tree and implies the opportunity of positioning miniature
pressure transducers in large coronary arteries. To reduce the radiation dose to the patient and
the physician, the diagnostic procedure minimizes the number of heart projections and any
measurements. Thus, the angiography reasonably limits the resolution and accuracy of the raw
data obtained for hemodynamic simulations.

The present study addresses the development of an original algorithm to construct a three-
dimensional patient-specific CFD model based on a limited amount of initial data that is possible
to obtain in the course of a standard angiographic radiopaque examination. In the case of
bifurcation lesions, the algorithm reconstructs the missing boundary pressure datasets from
in vivo measurements. To test the algorithm in practice, we selected the results of examination for