to ignore the mean velocity field. (ii) These exact helical relationships involve cross-correlations, 1S
e.g. between velocity and vorticity w, or the electromotive force and the magnetic potential. : gS
(iii) In their vectorial form [85], such laws clearly indicate the relationship between the lack of : 3
Beltramisation (non-zero Lamb vector, Lorentz force and Ohm’s Law) and the amount of transfer : =

through scales. (iv) These helical expressions have barely been analysed on data, with the notable
exception of the fluid case for the EDQNM (Eddy Damped Quasi-Normal Markovian) closure
[86], and for a series of DNS [87]. It would be of interest to see such analyses carried out for MHD,
both for EDQNM and for DNS, as well as in the context of the solar wind for which more refined
data is now available, including at small (ionic and even electronic) scales through the recently
launched MMS (Magnetospheric Multi-Scale) mission and the Parker Solar Probe. And finally, (v):
the direction of the cascade is not determined by these exact laws which can be observed to change
sign, for example in the solar wind for the total energy [88]. In fact, helical invariants in extended
MHD, which covers both the regimes of Hall current and electron inertia, have a more complex Da
behaviour [89,90]. Hg, which in that paper is called ion canonical helicity, is shown to undergo :3
either a direct or inverse cascade (in the latter case when the magnetic energy is in excess), a fact ad
that may be linked to its dominant physical dimensionality as the ion inertial scale varies. This DR
may also be associated with the non-locality of energy transfer, for example in Hall-MHD (see are
[91] and references therein). a)

(c)_ The role of cross helicity :8

The cross-helicity Hc is the correlation between the velocity and magnetic fields. It is a conserved
volume-averaged correlation directly related to Alfvén waves and, in the compressible case, to
magnetosonic waves as well [92]. Hc also plays a role in the estimation of the dissipation and of