NOAA’s operational NSWE model as used for real-time flooding predictions has been tested 22
with every significant tsunami since 2003 [1]. Predictions for the time histories of surface elevation : Ss
done in real time have been shown in excellent agreement with the measurements from DART DNS
buoys, except for unexplained time shifts of a few minutes in the arrival of the waves. No BT : =
models have been tested for far-field propagation in as many events, and all comparisons of 73

BT models we know of, also do require almost identical time shifts as NSWE models to match
predictions with the DART measurements. Further, no BT models have been shown to model
flooding from real tsunamis any better or as consistently as NSWE models, not to mention that
many BT models de-facto become NWSE near or post breaking [82]. Despite this inconvenient
truth, BT models have been peddled as panacea, not by mathematicians who are the most likely
to understand their convergence and appreciate their advantages, but by engineers with no prior
experience in tsunamis. The fact that the imagined benefits of BT simulations compared to the
NSWEs are lost when done at inappropriate resolution somehow escapes many modelers, who
don’t even check the convergence of their schemes for their specific application.

BT codes may have substantial benefits when simulating near-shore storm waves or swell
entering ports [64], but their benefits for studying tsunamis in ports remain unproved. One basic
issue here is the duration of the event. Storm waves can last for several hours, allowing for time
for nonlinear coupling of shorter frequencies, while near-shore tsunamis last for tens of minutes.
BT models can probably predict detailed time histories of landslide tsunamis, but in the single
historical case for which field observations exist, BT models predict maximum run-up to the same
level of accuracy as NSWE models [84].

If a regulator’s objective is to use the highest-end model available at the particular time a