are handled in such studies. There is no theory or hypotheses at the time of this writing which
informs on how often such events occur in a ‘normal’ population of earthquakes. Given the Dai-
ichi experience, as well as the indefensible assumptions in many PRAs, one wonders whether it is
just more logical for now to simply consider the maximum possible M ~ 9.6 earthquake of Kagan
& Jackson [11] as a trigger for a tsunami for all subduction zones threatening a given NPP.

For perspective, consider a 2010 safety study for the tsunami hazard for a liquefied natural
gas facility along the eastern Mediterranean coast of North Africa. The study was commissioned
by an energy company and the tsunami consultant was a major European laboratory, very
experienced in coastal engineering studies. One wonders whether this was their first design
study with tsunamis, given that their estimate for the inland flooding level was 1m, yet they
have used as an initial condition the AD 365 event, whose tsunami is known to have destroyed
most of Alexandria. In fact, Alexandria disappeared as one of the centres of the meta-ancient
world following this event. The well known laboratory signed off on what was a Fukushima-
size underestimation of the hazard. The energy company was itself surprised at the finding and
solicited an external review. Follow-up studies revealed an almost order of magnitude higher
local overland flows, consistent with historic reports. On this basis, the energy company moved
its planned site, at no additional cost, given that it was at its initial stages of planning.


It is clear to us that what is missing in contemporary hazard assessments are regulatory
guidelines for the training of the scientists and engineers who work on estimating the maximum
probable tsunami. The online free availability of computational tools has made it easy for anyone
to model many physical phenomena, sometimes with unwelcome consequences. As an example,
there are several excellent ‘free’ BT and NSWE models. Their outputs may differ slightly, for the