It is worth noting that due to (3.9) the range of K-values for which our stability result holds in this oe
case is reduced even further in comparison to cases 2 and 3. As for cases 2 and 3, we expect this
restriction for K to be sharp and that Kasner solutions outside this range are unstable near t = 0.

As mentioned above, we consider case 1 (3.9) as the main new contribution of this paper.
This is because if Q is sufficiently large this class is not contained in the family of (U(1)-
symmetric) perturbations of Kasner solutions studied in [10], even if A =0; this is in contrast
with our stability results in [24], which are covered by the work in [10]. The reason that the
stability results established in this paper are not covered by those from [10] is because in that
article, the perturbations are required to have a hypersurface orthogonal Killing vector field
that is close to one of the distinct eigenvector fields, say X, of go), As discussed above, the
hypersurface orthogonal vector field of our perturbations g in case 1 is in general an arbitrary
linear combination of the distinct eigenvector fields X and Y of g*). The fact that this linear
combination depends on the value of Q according to (2.15) is our main motivation to employ
the more general Qconst.-areal gauge as opposed to the Qo-areal gauge which we use in [24].

We also note that, similar to the standard Kasner solutions in [24], the A-Kasner solutions
discussed here have six natural isometries that preserve the form of the metric and map between
different values of K. Each of these six isometries is defined as a map that swaps a pair of spatial
coordinates. While each of these isometries can be applied to transform g“) into an equivalent
form with a different K-value preserving the areal gauge, none of these isometries simultaneously
preserve the Qconst-areal gauge of a generic metric perturbation g. In particular, the isometry that
interchanges the x- and y-coordinates—i.e. the isometry corresponding to (2.7) and (2.8) with
411 = 422 =0 and ay2 = az; = 1—maps according to (2.10) the constant value of Q to a generally
non-constant function form for Q. Similar to the situation in [24], we conclude from this that none