a positive cosmological constant and showed that the perturbed solutions decay to solutions with
constant negative spatial scalar curvature that lie sufficiently close to the background solutions.
This was accomplished by using a Hodge decomposition of the fluid’s n-velocity field and it was
observed that the pure rotational (‘curl’ part) and harmonic (topological) contributions decouple
at the linear level. This simplified the analysis and a subsequent energy type argument similar to
the one used by Andersson & Moncrief [26] was employed to conclude the result.

Motivated by the linear stability result, the second author executed a fully nonlinear analysis

assuming a certain smallness condition on the initial data [34]. However, construction of a suitable : =
Lyapunov functional for the complete Einstein—Euler system that controls the required norm of : =
the data (contrary to the rescaled volume functional which only controls the minimum regularity 1B
of (g,k, p,v)) is not straightforward. This is a consequence of the fact that the Euler equations : =
are not of ‘diagonal’ nature while expressed in our choice of CMCSH gauge.” This problem is ZR
circumvented by constructing a Lyapunov functional using D. Christodolou’s energy current [3
[15,35]. Using the monotonic decay property of this Lyapunov functional for sufficiently small :8
data, it is shown that the perturbed solutions are globally well posed to the future and moreover :8
that they decay to the nearby solutions with constant negative scalar curvature. This result : S
however required that the adiabatic index should lie in suitable range (yq € (1, (n + 1)/n), i.e. that 7S

the perturbations are restricted to lie within the so-called ‘sound cone’).

In 3+1 dimensions, the fixed points are characterized by the condition that the metric be
negative Einstein. Following Mostow rigidity, this automatically implies that the manifold be
hyperbolic. Contrary to the situation in 3+ 1 dimensions, the fixed points are not isolated in