SEIZ model [26] describing the evolution in time of the compartments of susceptible, exposed,
infectious and sceptic agents, which has been adapted to the analysis of fake news dissemination
(e.g. [27,28]). In particular, the tendency seems to be to define the sceptical agents as the ones who
are aware of the information but do not actively spread it [27]. In a symmetrical fashion, spreaders
need not to believe a piece of information to be able to spread it (this is especially useful when
thinking that bots are often encountered in social networks [29], both for legitimate and malicious
purposes). These descriptions are also sensible in terms of matching the model with the data
available.

In this paper, we follow this pathway: borrowing ideas from kinetic theory [30,31], we combine
a classical compartmental approach for fake-news dissemination inspired by epidemiology
[15,16] with a kinetic description of the effects of competence [32,33]. We refer also to the recent
work [34] concerning evolutionary models for knowledge. In fact, governments, international
organizations and social media companies have turned their attention to digital news consumers,
and particularly children and young adults. It is therefore of paramount importance to build
models capable of describing the interplay between the dissemination of fake news and the


creation of competence among the population. To this end, the approach we have followed
in this paper falls within the recent socio-economic modelling described by kinetic equations
(see [31] for a recent monograph on the subject). More precisely, we adapted the competence
model introduced in [32,33] to a compartmental model describing fake news dissemination. Such
a model allows not only to introduce competence as a static feature of the dynamics but as
an evolutionary component both taking into account learning by interactions between agents
and possible interventions aimed at educating individuals in the ability to identify fake news.