[3,4]. These attempts, which solely rely on brute-force direct numerical simulations (DNS), have
the intrinsic complication that any extreme realization of an observable will necessarily be very
rare, and thus hard to observe. Therefore, exploring extreme events not only requires high
numerical resolution but further extremely large datasets, most of which are wasted because they
do not exhibit the desired event. On this basis, we instead employ specific rare event techniques
[5], in particular stochastic field theory and instanton calculus [6], or equivalently, sample path
large deviation theory [7]. The two are intimately connected [6,8], and have proven successful
in related fields, such as extreme shocks in Burgers turbulence [9-11], extreme surface heights in
the Kardar—Parisi-Zhang (KPZ) equation [12], in ocean waves and tsunamis [13,14], or extreme
mechanical forces in grid-generated turbulence [15]. The key idea is to replace the inefficient naive
sampling approach by a deterministic optimization problem that yields the maximum-likelihood
trajectory of the system that leads to a prescribed rare outcome. The advantage of this method
is the fact that it yields the best estimate of the typical extreme event in the limit of it becoming
increasingly rare, which is the limit we are most interested in, and at the same time also the regime
that is hardest to reach via DNS.

As we will discuss later, instanton techniques not only allow for the computation of the
limiting most likely path to obtain an extreme event, but further yield estimates for the
exponential tail scaling of the observable’s probability density function (PDF). A concrete
prediction of our results is the fact that intuitive rotationally symmetric realizations of extreme
vorticity outcomes (namely, vortex tubes/filaments) or extreme strain outcomes (namely,
colliding or contracting vortex rings) are not necessarily the most likely way to reach extreme
values, even if the observable exhibits rotational symmetry. In fact, we present that the rotationally
symmetric events become subdominant, particularly for large positive strain values, and are
dominated in probability by asymmetric field configurations. In other words, the stochastic