standard deviation o of the PDF of 6. All the events which fall below yz — 20 (with being the
mean of the PDF), and thus have extremely low values of 5, are identified as the Null states. It is
to be noted that all events larger than jz + 2c still fall into the category of distinct LSC structures.
A visualization of the flow structure in a typical Null state is shown in figure 1d.

As mentioned in the previous sections, we performed the single trajectory analysis in the
case of fluids with Prandtl numbers of Pr =0.1,0.7 for 10° free fall time units. We assigned an
orientation angle @ to the LSC structure at each time frame obtained at every free fall time. The
classification is conditioned on both the values of 6 and 6. For a comprehensible understanding
of the prevalence of different states, we plot the histogram of angle of orientation (@) of the
LSC structures in figure 3a obtained from the single long-term trajectory run. The histogram
clearly shows four bi-variate peaks in the vicinity of angles corresponding to (2n + 1)z/4, with
n=0,1,2,3. The bi-variate nature of the peaks can be attributed to the fact that corner vortices try
to destabilize the LSC structure parallel to the diagonals permanently. Only when the fluctuations
are large enough does a transition proceed. Hence, instead of a pronounced LSC structure along
the diagonal, we detected oscillations in the angle of orientation with bi-variate peaks.

Nevertheless, it is clear from the histogram that LSC structures along the diagonals are the
most prevalent states and hence can be termed as the ‘long-lived LSC (LL-LSC)’ states. The
minima of the histogram of @ occurs in the vicinity of nz/2 with n =0,1,2,3, representing the
‘short-lived LSC’ (SL-LSC) aligned along the edges. A complementary picture of the different
macrostates as a function of both @ and 6 is given in figure 3b. This panel shows the heat map
of joint probability density function (JPDF). The four distinct bands for values 6 2 0.1 along
6 = (2n + 1)7/4 are visible representing the most prevalent LL-LSC structures aligned along the
diagonals. The subordinate SL-LSC states are represented by the thin dark bands appearing