purely diffusive heat flux of a motionless fluid layer yields the Nusselt number Nu. The central
question above then reduces to the determination of the asymptotic behaviour of Nu as a function
of Ra, typically sought under the form Nu ~ Ra” (leaving aside the Prandtl number Pr, defined as
the ratio of the kinematic viscosity over the thermal diffusivity).

As initially proposed by Priestley & Malkus [1,2], the emergent heat flux in the RB geometry
is strongly restricted by the boundary layers adjacent to the top and bottom plates. This leads
to the classical theory, characterized by a scaling exponent y = 1/3. This prediction departs from
the mixing-length prediction of Spiegel [3]: in the context of astrophysical fluids, where solid
boundaries are irrelevant, Spiegel assumes that the heat flux is related to the temperature drop in
a way that does not involve the tiny molecular diffusivities. This ‘diffusivity-free’ argument leads
to Nu ~ JRa Pr, that is, y =1/2. While the RB studies do not agree on when and whether RB
convection can achieve a heat transport exponent y greater than 1/3 [4-11], they agree on the fact
that the effective heat transport exponent is always significantly less than 1/2, with experimental
values in the range y € [0.28 — 0.38]. This makes it clear that the relationship between the heat
flux and the temperature difference in experimental RB convection always involves the molecular
diffusivities, either in a power-law or in a logarithmic fashion.

With the goal of circumventing the limitations of the RB set-up, we recently introduced
an alternate set-up where convection is driven by internal heat sources and sinks (CISS). A
combination of volumic sources and sinks deposits and removes heat directly inside the bulk
turbulent flow, thus bypassing the throttling boundary layers of RB convection. In CISS, the heat
flux is imposed and the vertical temperature drop is the emergent quantity that one measures
or extracts from a numerical simulation. In dimensionless terms, the flux-based Rayleigh number
Rap = Nu x Rais the control parameter, and the goal is to determine the Rayleigh number Ra for a