gaps of metamaterials to create elastic shielding devices protecting objects from elastic waves
[1-4]. Depending on the devices’ operating frequencies, these shields can act for seismic [27],
acoustic [3,5,31-33] or ultrasonic [5-7,34,35] protection of objects that need to be isolated from the
external environment.

In light of the previous remarks, it is established that metamaterials can be used for protection
purposes. Yet, no effort is made to explore the energy which is reflected by the shield and that
affects its surroundings. It is of primary importance to master such reflection phenomena to
make metamaterial shields suitable for practical purposes. The effect of elastic waves in the
surroundings of the shield is usually not explored due to the lack of simplified homogenized
models allowing the simulation of large meta-structures with reasonable computational costs.
We show in this paper that, once such a model is established, suitable boundary value problems
can be set up allowing an eased simulation of both the inner and outer domain. In fact, even if
dynamic homogenization methods have provided important advancements in the modelling of
infinite-size metamaterials [32,33,35—40], little is known about handling scattering problems at the
boundaries of finite-size metamaterials. This lack of knowledge is mainly due to the difficulties
arising in establishing pertinent macroscopic boundary conditions formally upscaled from
microscopic ones. To overcome this problem, we propose here to study the scattering properties of
the considered shielding device via the relaxed micromorphic model, introduced by the authors
[41-43] and recently equipped with a set of well-posed, physically coherent boundary conditions
[7]. We prove that the relaxed micromorphic model shows excellent agreement with the scattering
profiles obtained via full microstructured simulations when a direct comparison is possible due to
the small specimen’s size. This agreement is established for a wide frequency range (from zero to
beyond the first band-gap) and for all angles of propagation of the incident wave. These results are
important since, to the authors’ knowledge, no other homogenized model is able to predict finite-