be normal and the set of imperfections that are superimposed on the cylinder geometry follows a
predefined and non-changing statistical signature (constant covariance matrix). The assumption
that the buckling load distribution is normal is, strictly speaking, not accurate as the distribution
of limit loads generally follows an extreme value distribution [8,41], but the assumption of
normality is often made in the literature. Indeed, the distribution of buckling loads may change
throughout an optimization but these considerations are outside of the scope of the present
work. It is also worth noting that throughout the optimization process, cylinder designs with
low variance are automatically chosen as these designs satisfy the objective function of increased
reliability. In this scenario of low variance, extreme value distributions of buckling loads can be
approximated by a normal distribution. As a result, in preliminary work we have determined that
Monte Carlo simulations of optimized high reliability designs are generally well approximated by
a normal distribution. The second simplification, the use of a static set of imperfections, negates
the fact that different layups have different imperfection signatures due to the curing and layup
processes. However, without manufacturing simulations of each layup, it is impossible to account
for the characteristic imperfection signatures that are present in each cylinder. Furthermore, a
comparison between the Fourier coefficients of the mean imperfection used within the present
FOSM analysis [35] and previously manufactured RTS and SF cylinders [18] indicates that the
Fourier coefficients used are representative of real, manufactured structures.

The final feature of the FOSM analysis that enables the efficient calculation of statistical
features is the Mahalanobis transformation. The Mahalanobis transformation can be understood
in light of the probabilistic analysis: it is desirable to minimize the number of variables and to
ensure the random variables are independent of one another. The random variables for the present
analysis are the 462 Fourier coefficients that describe the imperfection field of the measured set of
composite cylinders [35]. It is these random variables that are used within the FOSM analysis and