eigenstate (e.g. the particular position of a pointer). When the quantum system to be measured DNS
is now in a superposed state, it gets entangled with the ‘quantum end’ of the apparatus—but area
as subsequent interactions propagate through the instrument, inevitable entanglement with the eal
environment will eventually cause the single quantum state of the total system (measured system .
plus instrument) to break up into mutually correlated basis states: (i) the instrument signals a
specific macroscopic change and (ii) the original quantum system emerges in a corresponding
eigenstate.!> Because of the human intention involved in the construction or use of a measurement
apparatus, does a quantum measurement process represent an information-driven interaction?
No, because there is no initial pattern to be univocally mapped into a macroscopic change (like the
position of a pointer). The only information-driven interaction occurs between the ‘classical end’
of the instrument with the observer (sensory effect of the macroscopic change in the instrument
on the observer's brain or a human-designed recorder).
The important fact for our discussion is that when an ensemble of initially entangled quantum
systems has decohered, it will behave classically, furnishing the same results in an immediately
following succession of identical measurements (neglecting experimental errors). Only then can
we define patterns required for information-driven interactions—such interactions cannot occur
at the non-decohered quantum level, and pragmatic information cannot exist and operate in, or be
extracted from, the quantum domain. A logical consequence is the so-called no-cloning theorem: a
single quantum system in a superposed state cannot be copied, unless the original is destroyed
in the process. It is an experimental fact that macroscopic bodies are in decohered and reduced
states (no Schrédinger cats!), but so are also the atomic nuclei of organic molecules.!® The latter
behave classically and can carry, transfer or respond to pragmatic information: a spatial pattern
in some complex organic molecule triggering a specific change in some other molecular system,
with some organelle responsible for the interaction mechanism, is possible!
The above shows that in the physical Universe we can identify quantum and classical domains,