in the RAF model, which uses the full stoichiometry of metabolic reactions where cofactors
are modified. For example, in reactions that use ATP, the reaction is modelled with ADP on
the products side, and ATP is counted both as a reagent and as a catalyst. Equally, reactions
that use NADH are modelled with NAD on the other side, and ‘NADs’, the high class that
equates NAD(P)H, is counted as a catalyst. Those reactions associated with recycled cofactors
may be associated with other cofactors or metals in the database we used, the Universal Protein
Resource Knowledgebase [57], and those are taken into account as well. Fourth, in this model, as
in biochemistry, every reaction is not controlled by a specific catalyst. In our simulations, among
5723 molecules participating in 5994 annotated reactions, only 47 small-molecules or classes
thereof act as catalysts. We use classes as ‘flavins’, ‘nads’, ‘folates’ and ‘divalent cation’ to equate
structurally or chemically similar catalysts, which generalizes catalysis even more than what is
natural in the cell. Finally, because ATP is a monomer of RNA, in agreement with others we are
confident that the origin of ATP before the origin of RNA is quite parsimonious—in fact, it seems
to be a necessity, given the difficulty to polymerize NMPs directly to RNA. Because ATP allows
for much more chemically than polymerization, it is parsimonious to assume that other chemical
reactions occurred in the same chemical niche where ATP originated, before and concurrently
with its polymerization with other bases to form RNA strands.

There are, however, and despite confounding criticism addressed, significant and real
weaknesses in the model that we hope to be addressed in the future. The curation of reaction
reversibility and the assignment of different catalysts to reactions running in reverse are required
improvements, which entail the annotations of thousands of reactions to be curated manually.
One example is the synthesis of cysteine, which occurs in our simulations in small RAFs from
pyruvate, ammonia and hydrogen sulphide, in a highly endergonic reverse direction of a reaction
from a common cysteine degradation pathway. Encouragingly, another weakness of the model is