which depends on the edge temperature [10].

In the present simulation, we regarded the region outside the knee region at r/a = 1/2 — 2/3
as also subject to a constraint since it exhibits an exponential function in which scale length is
spatially constant, except for the narrow sink region (0.9 < r/a < 1) closest to the edge ( figure 1).
It is noted that the level of constraint is weak compared with those in the inner region where
the scale length is almost unchanged with no dependence on the input power. This two-scale
nature is also seen for the larger system size of a = 225p;9 where the scale separation is more valid
[29]. As far as the mechanism, process 3, i.e. the slow time scale evolution of E x B shear layers
towards the outside region as seen in figure 4c, can be considered. Namely, the E, field originates
from the density perturbation. The downward convection of E x B shear layers accompanied by
the pressure corrugation may play a role in accumulating the density perturbation in the outer
region, which becomes again the origin of zonal flows. In fact, the increase of the E, shear in the
outer region is observed in higher input power regime, which reduces transport and then shortens
the global scale length. Another possible effect is the edge boundary condition. Here, we used a
Dirichlet type boundary condition to model the outflow of the heat flux from the boundary. This
is likely, while we introduce a sink term using a Krook model near the edge as shown in figure 2,
which causes a distortion in distribution function. Once such effects propagate through the inner
region, there could be a case in which the neo-classical transport increases. However, we have
confirmed that the two-scale nature is weakly influenced by collisionality.

Meanwhile, one of the key results of this study is that it demonstrated the global profile
formation and relaxation subject to a constraint leading to a basic feature of L-modes based on a
minimum model as an open system, which are sustained only from the external action through
source and sink. Therefore, the origin of the constraint is the central concern. As can be seen in