curves of probing force, F, versus probing displacement, v,? for three levels of axial load, P, : =
are shown in figure 2c. The probing curves show the same qualitative behaviour as for the : =
axially compressed cylinder in figure 1a. For low axial load, P, the probing curve is sigmoidal of 8
exclusively positive stiffness. For intermediate levels of P, maximum and minimum turning /limit [3
points appear on the probing curves, but the curves do not intersect the probing force axis, F = 0. :38
For high levels of axial load, i.e. when the end-localized mountain pass state is a self-equilibrated, : S
yet unstable, equilibrium (P greater than the limit point i marked in figure 2b), the probing curves a
intersect the horizontal axis. 8

We now pose the question of what is expected to occur if initial geometric imperfections in the
shape of the mountain pass state are present? We suggest that introducing an initial imperfection
is, to first order, equivalent to shifting the origin of the probing curves, as shown by the F-W axes in
figure 2c. This shift in coordinate axes reflects the fact that both the magnitude of the probing force
and the probing displacement required to obtain a specific deformation amplitude diminish with
the presence of an affine imperfection. Depending on the magnitude of the initial imperfection,
vo, this implies that probing curves for the perfect beam (vp = 0) that did not intersect the F =0
axis may intersect the imperfect F = 0 axis, as shown in figure 2c. Hence, we obtain ‘imperfect’
edge states that did not exist for the perfect beam which, crucially, exist for lower levels of axial
load, P. However, if the axial load is sufficiently small, such that probing of the perfect beam does
not lead to maximum and minimum turning/limit points on the probing curves, then no level
of initial imperfection can shift the F = 0 axis to yield an imperfect edge state. This transition is
defined by the point where the probing ridge, i.e. the locus of maximum/minimum points on
the probing curves, reaches a turning point—a so-called codimension-2 cusp catastrophe. Thus,
for levels of axial compression, P, below the axial force, Peep, of the probing ridge cusp of the
perfect beam, imperfect edge states are not possible.