term is not replaced by a scalar field but it is assumed to acquire some ad hoc time dependence

(sometimes through the scale factor and/or the Hubble rate, or just directly in terms of the cosmic .3
time). The ‘A(t)-class’ of models is often referred to as ‘Decaying Vacuum Cosmologies’, see e.g. :
[46-53]. The idea of a time-evolving cosmological term is actually much older and traces back to
Bronstein in 1933 [54]. For a review of many of these models, see e.g. [55,56] and references therein.
The A(t)-class has no obvious relation with fundamental physics, but it was useful to illustrate the
possible effects implied by a time-evolving cosmological term. These models, however, should
not be confused with the running vacuum models (RVMs), in which the dynamical dependence

of A, or more precisely of the VED, stems from explicit computation of quantum effects in QFT in : 3
curved space-time [57,58]. Therefore, despite some existing confusion in the literature, the RVMs : s
are to be understood in that (much more) restricted sense. In actual fact, only the RVMs will be :B
dealt with in the current article, see [23] for an introduction. {=
In the years after the discovery of the accelerated expansion of the universe, a flood of : a
proposals invaded hastily the cosmology market: it certified the birth of the miscellaneous notion : =
of ‘dark energy’ (DE), see [59] and the long list of references therein. Its purpose was to replace : =
(in ‘infinitely’ many different disguises) the function made by the A-term in Einstein’s equations. 1B
Because of the CCP, the vacuum energy option for the DE became outcast as if being blamed of all : =
evils, particularly of the acute fine-tuning problem. However, the criticisms usually had nothing :R
better to offer, except to defend tooth and nail some particular form of DE without improving : 3
an inch the fine-tuning illness—which for some mysterious reason was (exclusively) ascribed to 1S
the CC option. But this is not fair. All devised forms of DE are, in principle, pestered with the :8
same tuning illness and to a degree which is no lesser than the CC itself. Paradoxically enough, it : 3
s