effective action of QFT in curved space-time. The RVM inflationary mechanism is also completely
distinct from Starobinsky’s inflation [151], for which it is the time derivative of the Hubble rate
which remains constant for a short period of time (H = const.) [95]. We have also pointed out
the existence of a stringy version of the RVM inflationary mechanism which can operate with H*
terms [128-130]. These terms can also appear in QFT when the setting M =H is performed and
will be investigated elsewhere.

At the end of the day, we have been able to show that the genuine form of the VED for the
current universe can be attained from direct calculations of QFT in the FLRW space-time. In such
a structure, the powers of H (and its time derivatives) are of even adiabatic order. This means
that all of the permitted powers effectively carry an even number of time derivatives of the scale
factor, which is essential to preserve the general covariance of the action. Linear terms (cubic, or in
general of odd order) in H are incompatible with covariance and in fact do not appear in the final
result. To be more precise, all terms with an odd number of time derivatives of the scale factor)
are ruled out by covariance and never enter our calculation.

On the other hand, the form of pyac(H) predicted by the RVM at low energies is no less
interesting. It is remarkably simple but it certainly goes beyond a rigid CC term. To be precise,
it consists of a dominant additive term (to be identified basically with the cosmological term)
together with a small dynamical component ~vH?, in which the dimensionless parameter v
can be computed from the underlying QFT framework and is predicted to be small (\v| « 1).
Ultimately, its value can only be known upon fitting the RVM to the overall cosmological data,
where it has been found to be positive and in the ballpark of approximately 10~> cf. [78]. Such
a mild dynamics of the cosmic vacuum is helpful to ameliorate the global fits when compared
with the concordance ACDM. The Hp tension can be reduced to approximately 1.60 and the og