intracellular AP for both passive and active sensors with good neuron sealing (left column). The
reason why, in the passive case, the intracellular Vout differs from an attenuated replica of the
neuron AP will be explained later by means of the transfer function analysis. The signal reduces
to ~ 20 + 30 1 Vpp if sealing is less effective (right column), highlighting the importance of good
adhesion of the neuron to the sensor. On the other hand, the signals sensed with extracellular
contact have a biphasic shape, resembling the first time derivative of the intracellular AP. The
Vpp is much smaller than its intracellular counterpart, and therefore it is magnified in the figure.
Approximately, both passive and active sensors achieve ~ 6 Vpp with Ryjseal = 900 M2, and
1 1 Vpp or less with Ryjseal = 100 M@. While these numbers depend on the chosen parameter
values and can be improved to some extent by changing the sensor geometry and coupling to
the neuron, the observed trends are consistent with expectations because of the screening of the
double layers at the cleft’s interfaces in the intrinsic part of the device next to the protrusions and
because of the fact that Rjseai is directly connected to ground.

With the goal in mind to investigate the time and frequency responses of the four case-study
systems of figure 6 for various neuron-sensor coupling conditions, figure 8 shows the modulus
of the transfer functions (TFs) |7(f)| = |Vout(f)/Vn(f)| for the circuits in figure 4 and two Rpjseal
values over an extended frequency range suited to identify some relevant features. Qualitatively
speaking, the TFs confirm that in the frequency range of the AP spectra, a flat gain can be achieved
in intracellular sensing conditions, whereas for extracellular sensing the TFs are dominated by low
frequency zeros. This is the reason why for intracellular sensing the output waveform resembles
an undistorted and scaled copy of the AP, while for extracellular sensing it reflects the distorted
time derivative of the AP.

