trajectory from the interaction between A and € is not contained in any of the other recurrent state
space trajectories of any isolated system of the same size as A, the pair of systems A and € is
said to exhibit innovation. In addition, since interaction with the environment can introduce state-
dependent changes in the evolution rules of system A, the increase of the recurrence time shown
in the models investigated in [3] can be classified as an example of emergence through downward
(or top-down) causation [3,32,33]. Downward causation is usually described in the literature as a
type of process in which the global (or macro-level) dynamics of the system as a ‘whole’ gains
causal efficacy over the micro-level systems (or parts) [6,32,34].

Note that in the models of cellular automata in [3], the interaction with the environment
can produce changes, i.e. perturbations, in the evolution rule of system A. So it differs from
algorithmic perturbations because the latter impact the states of system A instead of its evolution
tule. In fact, one can reduce each state-dependent rule perturbation of a cellular automaton A
in [3] to an equivalent algorithmic perturbation on an equivalent universal cellular automaton
that emulates A. To this end, just note that every finite cellular automaton is computable by
a Turing machine and there are universal cellular automata (for example, elementary cellular
automaton Rule 110) that can simulate any Turing machine [1]. Thus, for each state-dependent


tule perturbation in [3], one can construct such an equivalent algorithmic perturbation and
then demonstrate that there is a constant ce for which ODE (as in [1], Definition 4.1) implies
unbounded evolution and innovation (see [1], Section 4.1.1). Additionally, it can be employed to
prove that unbounded evolution and innovation define a type of emergence that is dependent on
the observer’s prior knowledge ([1], Section 4.1.1). Thus, the kind of emergence from unbounded
evolution and innovation is dependent on the observer’s formal knowledge, and one can always