concept appears in the work by William M. Wheeler in 1926 [3,4]. The concept has been invoked
by emergentist philosophers such as Samuel Alexander and Charlie Dunbar Broad in contrast to
reductionism in the 1920s, although a more formal approach was developed by the pioneers of
cybernetics in the 1940s. In fact, cybernetics deals with systems and their causal feedback loops:
among its founders there were Norbert Wiener and John von Neumann, the latter being the
first to propose cellular automata and a universal constructor, both concepts strictly related to
emergence. Ludwig von Bertalanffy, in particular, was among the founders of general systems
theory, providing the first mathematical ground to describe the complexity observed in biological
and social systems [5,6].

It was during the 1970s that the Nobel Laureate Phil Anderson warned against the perils of
reductionism. In [7], he gave specific examples where reductionist thinking fails and highlighted
the fact that the most fundamental physical laws were unable to explain new properties and
behaviours arising in the assembly of a large number of units obeying those fundamental laws.
An important consequence of this is that he opened the door to the existence of fundamental
laws at different levels of complexity, e.g. the objects of study in biology do not follow the
laws of chemistry, likewise the objects of study in chemistry do not follow the laws of particle
physics. Anderson argued that, even if we are looking at a single level of complexity in this
hierarchy, it is via a process of symmetry breaking that the state of a large system composed
of many entities might not follow the rules of the fundamental laws that the entities themselves
follow. Hence, the appearance of new properties is intimately linked with the disappearance


of the symmetries of a system, be they spatial, temporal, informational, etc. As a particular 3 |
example of emergence by symmetry breaking, we can mention the formation of complex spatio-