exponents that can be used to define universality classes able to describe a broad variety of
systems which manifest fractal features [35-38]. A widely known emergent phenomenon, such
as ferromagnetism, can be understood in terms of the collective behaviour due to the spin-
spin interactions of electrons in a material which tend to spontaneously align at the critical
temperature, effectively magnetizing the system at large scale. Here, note that ferromagnetism
would have no meaning for a system of one particle, since the phenomenon is related to collective
behaviour causing simultaneous alignment even in the absence of an external magnetic field. A
paradigmatic approach to gain insight about critical phenomena is the Ising model at different
dimensions: it has been shown that a simple two-dimensional Ising model with fields is universal,
ie. it can be used to facilitate the physical simulation of Hamiltonians with complex interactions
[39] and it has been related to cellular automata [40]. Remarkably, there are systems that do
not even need a parameter (e.g. temperature) to be tuned in order to exhibit the scale-invariant
organization in space or time, such as in critical systems at phase transition. In fact, such systems
dynamically reconfigure their state and spontaneously reach a critical point, which is also an
attractor. This peculiar behaviour is widely known as self-organized criticality [41,42] (SOC) and
it is characteristic of driven nonlinear systems of many interacting units out of equilibrium [43]:
the signature of SOC is the fractal organization in space or time, and it has been observed in
biological, ecological, physical and social systems [44,45].

At this point, since most of the systems mentioned so far are non-living, it is worth remarking
what is meant by ‘organization’ in open systems out of thermal equilibrium. Here, it is defined
by the formation of spatial or temporal (or both) structures that are perceived by an external
observer able to measure them in terms of information. On the one hand, this information can
be understood as a ‘difference which makes a difference’ [46], which does not allow for an
operational definition. On the other hand, the mathematical concept of information as introduced