data as they are very far from the range of the majority of the data. We handle missing data using
a two-step procedure. Firstly, whenever possible, we recover missing zeros using deterministic
imputation based on respondents’ answers to other sections of the questionnaire. For instance, if
the answer to the question ‘Did you send any message of this kind today?’ is ‘No’ and there is
a missing value for the question ‘How many?’, we can reasonably assume that the answer to the
latter question is zero. In this way, we can recover 0.5% of the missing observations. Secondly,
the remaining missing values are imputed using random forest imputation (as implemented in
the R package mice [35]). In Section S2 of the electronic supplementary material, we provide
more details on the data imputation technique and we present an empirical study to quantify the
impact of data imputation on the results presented in the next section. Figure S2 of the electronic
supplementary material displays the data after imputation.

To account for the fact that T repeated observations are available for each subject and process,
we need to slightly modify model (2.3). We do so by assuming that the different time points
are independent of each other, so that repeated observations can be straightforwardly included
in the proposed model. Let Yj denote the count for the ith subject and the jth process at time
t, i=1,...,n,j=1,...,d and t=1,...,T. We assume that Yijt are conditionally independent,
given the parameters of the model. Thus, the likelihood contribution of each subject i is given
by Ths TTL fie | Vinsj): It must be highlighted that we are clustering individuals based on the
pattern of all their observations, at each time point ft and for each process j.

Finally we note that, thanks to the probabilistic structure of the hurdle model for zero-inflated
data, p; and the sampling distribution 9(- | 4;) reflect two distinct features of the respondents’
behaviour: p; represents the probability of engaging in some COVID-19 related WhatsApp
activity, while g(- | “;) captures the behaviour of those subjects who have actually engaged in