In this work, we propose a Bayesian model for multiple zero-inflated count data, building on =
the well-established hurdle model and exploiting the flexibility of finite mixture models with :s
a random number of components. The main contribution of this work is the construction of 7:3
an enriched finite mixture with a random number of components, which allows for two-level :
(nested) clustering of the subjects based on their pattern of counts across different processes.
This structure enhances interpretability of the results and has the potential to better capture
important features of the data. We design a conditional and a marginal MCMC sampling
scheme to perform posterior inference. The proposed methodology has wide applicability, since
excess-of-zeros count data arise in many fields. Our motivating application involves answers
to a questionnaire on the use of WhatsApp in India during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our
analysis identifies a two-level clustering of the subjects: the outer cluster allocation reflects daily
probabilities of engaging in different WhatsApp activities, while the inner level informs on
the number of messages conditionally on the fact that the subject is indeed receiving/sending
messages on WhatsApp. Any two subjects are clustered together if they show a similar
pattern across the multiple responses. We find three different well-distinguished respondent
behaviours corresponding to the three outer clusters: (i) subjects with low probability of
daily utilization; (ii) subjects with high probability of sending/receiving all types of messages
and (iii) subjects with high probability for all considered messages except for non-forwarded
messages in personal chats. Interestingly, the inner level clustering and the outer cluster-specific
estimates of the sampling distribution g highlight similarities between the outer Clusters 1
and 3, where subjects tend to send/receive fewer messages compared with outer Cluster 2.
Moreover, we are able to identify those subjects with a high propensity to spread COVID-
19 messages during the critical phase of the pandemic and for these subjects we do not find
notable differences in terms of types of messages sent or received. Our results are in line
with existing literature on the topic. Future work involves the development of more complex