Table 2 contains the model comparison results of the statistical analyses of the COG-UK dataset.
Model GI had the lowest AIC value and hence was used for inference. Significance of smooth
terms was calculated by the mgcv package according to the approach of [34], using Wald-type
tests with null hypothesis being that the smooth function is exactly zero. All smooth terms were
highly statistically significant at the p=0.05 level, calculated according to the approach of [34]
(p <2 x 10-16 in all cases). Absolute model fit was tested by comparing observed and model-
fitted values (correlation 0.8) and using residual checks. These can been found in the supporting
information and imply that there are sufficient differences between the variants that models
incorporating variant-specific smooth terms are required for accurate analysis. The multivariate
smooth terms of latitude, longitude and day were highly statistically significant (both global and
variant-specific), whereas variant-specific factor slopes were not, suggesting that simple models
fitting general trends across all regions are not sufficiently flexible. This is further supported by
the fact that model I had the second lowest AIC across the fitted models.

Our results suggest that the relative growth of Delta was higher than that of the previously
circulating strain Alpha, and hence, Delta was able to outcompete other SARS-CoV-2 strains in
England since May 2021 (figure 4 (top plot)). This is a similar pattern of behaviour to the Alpha
variant, which outcompeted the previously dominating variant B.1.177 and was the dominating
variant in late 2020 and early 2021, including B.1.177 (figure 4 (bottom plot)).

The observed transmissibility of the variants across England was spatially heterogeneous
(figure 4) but Delta was consistently more transmissible than Alpha, while Alpha was consistently
more transmissible than B.1.177. In LTLAs with very large (over 50%) and consistent occurrence
of the Delta variant, transmissibility of Delta was 65-90% greater than Alpha, but spatially
heterogeneous (figure 4 (top plot)). Similarly, the estimates for Alpha being more transmissible