
Consider, for example, the following scenario ([32]; see [4] for insightful discussions of many
such cases). Two people, A and B, are colleagues attending the same conference. A has already
arrived and is chatting with colleagues in a crowded atrium. Noticing B arrive, A waves, points
to her name badge and gestures through the melee in the general direction of the conference
registration desk (where B can, among other things, pick up her own name tag). B makes a smile
of acknowledgement, points a finger forwards to the region of the room A was indicating and
begins to make her way towards it.

How can communication work, in contexts like this? First, it seems crucial that A and B have
a common understanding that A is trying to help B by providing some useful information (for
example, B needs to establish that A is trying to communicate with her, rather than the person
behind or next to her). It seems they need a common understanding, too, of the fact that B has just
arrived and will be looking to register for the conference (and, among other things, get a name

badge). By drawing attention to her own name badge, A is putting it into common knowledge : =
between A and B that she has already registered, and hence, by implication, that she knows where : =
the registration desk is. It is assumed to be common knowledge between A and B, too, that the : Pa
location of the registration desk is not known to B (after all, the room is crowded). Indeed, were the : =
room empty, the same gesture would have a rather different interpretation: instead of helpfully 28
informing B where the registration desk is (an interpretation that would be blocked by the fact that : 3S
it would be common knowledge that A knows this already because it is in plain sight), it would :3
be more likely to be interpreted as a somewhat officious instruction that A should go straight to : S
the desk and get registered. By smiling back, and pointing, B is acknowledging that the message a
is received, and its content understood, before acting on it (by battling through the crowd in the Ss