Around 1990, Thomas Stocker and Dan Wright constructed a two-dimensional THC model
[13] that was much more sophisticated than ours. In particular, they approached the closure
problem by converting the momentum equations into a vorticity equation, thereby eliminating
the geostrophic balance, and they developed parameterizations for the zonally averaged vorticity
balance (see [14,15] for comprehensive analyses). Their approach crucially relied on dissipation
of relative vorticity in frictional boundary layers, thus emphasizing ageostrophic effects. Their
model showed some impressive successes when compared with the results of OGCMs, in relating
meridional flow strength to meridional density differences (e.g. fig. 3b in [15]).

Despite these successes, I felt that the analysis in Wright et al. [14] and Wright et al. [15
left a fundamental gap. To the best of my understanding, they never returned to (2.1), the
zonally averaged equation for the zonal momentum balance. But there was, and still is, the
observational fact that all large-scale oceanic flow below the Ekman layer is in geostrophic balance
to an accuracy beyond observational capabilities (e.g. [16,17]); furthermore, by the observational
knowledge of the 1990s, all analyses of hydrographic sections gave a stable result of northward
integrated transport above 1000m depth in the subtropical North Atlantic (e.g. [18,19]). Hence
there ought to be a robust relationship between the pressures (or densities) at the eastern and
western boundaries of the North Atlantic. A strong northward THC should be reflected in a
definitive relationship between the pressure terms in (2.1), and any satisfactory dynamical closure
for the THC should speak to this relationship. By contrast, the approach by Wright, Stocker and
colleagues stressed ageostrophic effects.

While the success of the Stocker and Wright model—and by implication the success of the
vorticity closure approach—might have put the question of geostrophic balance of the THC onto
the back burner, a few theoreticians pushed ahead, at least on qualitative terms. Simultaneously