FsQ(q,0) =1, which leads to large systematic errors for small q. From a physical perspective,
this deficiency can be attributed to the lack of screening effects in the underlying single-particle
imaginary-time diffusion process. Combining these results for the thermal delocalization with
the exact description of static correlation effects (i.e. by using our PIMC results for S(q) = F(q, T))
via equation (2.22) leads to the long-dashed purple curves. Clearly, equation (2.22) leads to a
spectacular improvement over the bare Fsp(q, t) for q < 2qp, i.e. in the regime where the SSF S(q)
has not yet reached the single-particle limit of S(q + oo) = 1. This finding constitutes one of the
central observations of the present work, as it implies that the complicated dynamic behaviour of
the quantum UEG can be accurately approximated by a phenomenologically simple combination
of static correlations, which can easily be estimated from equilibrium simulations, with the simple
Gaussian imaginary-time diffusion of a single particle.

In fact, we can show that the t-dependence of the single-particle ITCF, AFsp(q, t), does become
exact in the limit as t > 0 by numerically evaluating the derivative of Fsp(q, t) with respect to t
around the origin. The results are shown as the black squares in figure 7 and compared to the exact
f-sum rule (equation (2.18)), which is depicted by the solid red line via equation (2.17). We find
perfect agreement between the numerical results obtained from the single-particle ITCF and the
exact sum rule for all q. Returning once more to figure 5, we find that Fsp(q, t) even becomes exact
for large wavenumbers where S(q) > 1, and we find perfect agreement with the PIMC reference
data for q = 6.27qp.

Finally, the grey dash-double-dotted curves in figure 5 show results for the ITCF of the ideal
Fermi gas [137], Fo(q,t), and we observe similar, though not the same, trends as in Fsp(q, t). In
particular, fermionic exchange effects lead to density correlations between electrons of the same
spin-orientation, and the static limit Fo(q, 0) that is depicted as the dotted black curve in figure 6