Applying the idea of fast forward (FF) of adiabatic control of one-dimensional confined
systems, Babajanova, Matrasulov and Nakamura (BMN) [22] investigated the non-equilibrium
equation of states of an ideal quantum gas (Fermi gas) confined to the rapidly dilating soft-wall
and hard-wall cavities. BMN consider a Fermi gas of N non-interacting particles confined in the
harmonic potential whose frequency is time-dependent and also the gas system in the hard-wall
confinement. BMN derived the non-equilibrium equation of states during the FF, and showed the
fast-forward variants of Poisson’s adiabatic equation and Bernoulli’s formula. Confined to the
thermally isolated isentropic process and using the exact solution of the von Neumann equation,
statistical means of the quantal adiabatic and non-adiabatic forces are evaluated in both the


low-temperature quantum-mechanical and high temperature quasi-classical regimes. Reflecting
the fact that the fast-forward dynamics is population-preserving cooling or heating process, the
state variables such as the statistical mean of force, cavity size and effective temperature are
not quasi-static, but rapidly changing variables. BMN elucidated the quantum non-adiabatic
(QNAD) contributions to Poisson’s adiabatic equation and to Bernoulli’s formula. The QNAD
contributions are proportional to the acceleration of cavity size and square of its velocity, and
has coefficients dependent on temperature, gas density and cavity size. BMN also revealed the
condition where the QNAD contribution overwhelms the quantal adiabatic one and thoroughly
changes the feature of the conventional equilibrium equation of states. On the other hand, BMN
showed a scheme to realize the exact FF state with use of the electromagnetic field (see Sec.
ILB of [22]). In that scheme uf does not include the extra factor e/ as in equation (3.5) of the
present article and the FF protocol guarantees the perfect fidelity of the underlying adiabatic state
throughout the time evolution until the completion of control protocol. Therefore, the energetic
cost caused by the FF driving is expected to be greatly decreased, which will be studied elsewhere