to describe the response of elastic solids wherein the stress T and the deformation gradient are
related implicitly.

In the classical Cauchy elasticity, the stress is a function of the strain B. As a result of
linearization of the strain we obtain T = C: €, where : stands for matrix product, C is the fourth
order elasticity tensor and € denotes the linearized strain. In conclusion, one could only obtain a
linear relation between the stress and the strain, which, however, does not reflect reality in various
materials. Here we make use of a framework introduced by Rajagopal [2] in which the strain is
considered as a function of the stress, that is, B = f(T). Correspondingly, one considers a nonlinear
function for the linearized strain ¢ = f(T). Hence implicit constitutive theory leads to a small strain
theory allowing for a nonlinear relationship between the linearized strain and the stress [4,5].

The notion strain-limiting refers to the response of materials which are characterized by the fact
that, once the strain reaches a certain limiting value, a further increase in stress will not cause any
changes in strain. Such models have recently attracted a considerable amount of attention due
to the fact that various phenomena, including cracks, are successfully described. In the classical
linear elasticity theory such nonlinear response cannot be explained. The advantage of implicit
theories is that they allow for the gradient of the displacement to stay small so that one could
treat the linearized strain, even for arbitrary large values of the stress, which has, in fact, been
observed in many experiments (see the references in [3]).

In this work, we are interested in the analysis of a one-dimensional viscoelastic model resulting
from a constitutive equation specifying the relation between the linearized strain, the stress and
the stress-rate. In §2, we introduce the model we study in this work which is derived using
the viscoelastic constitutive relation and the equation of motion. This yields an equation for the