
as implied by Einstein’s arguments (insofar as they are based on prohibiting any instantaneous :
action at a distance) concerning the EPR-type experiments, is independent of other keys concepts
with which it is linked in relativity, such as the Lorentz invariance of special relativity. Indeed, the nee)
latter is violated in general relativity, where it is only locally or infinitesimally valid, but where
locality is strictly maintained. Technically, too, relativity prohibits a transmission of physical a]
influences not only instantaneously but also faster than the (finite) speed of light in a vacuum, DNS
a requirement that could, in principle, be violated, while still allowing for locality, as different if
speed limits on physical actions may emerge. Einstein's ‘spooky action at a distance’, too, refers 3
to an instantaneous action, in conflict with relativity as well, but not defined by it. The standard .
quantum mechanics is not relativistic, but it is, or may be interpreted as or required to be local.
The locality of quantum mechanics also implies that it is in compliance with the requirements of
relativity, but it may be a deeper fact, as the Bell and the Kochen-Specker theorems and related
findings may indicate as well. This need not mean that locality is quantum in origin, but only that
it might be a deeper aspect of nature than those, such as the Lorentz invariance, defining relativity
theory, which, however, is local as well.

3. From Newtonian mechanics to analytical mechanics to quantum mechanics

As must be apparent from the preceding discussion, the difference between realist and non-
realist models of reality is fundamental and irreducible, whatever features these models possess
otherwise, in particular, whether realist models are visualizable or not. However, there are
also important affinities between non-visualizable realist models, found in classical physics and
relativity theory, and non-realist models, found in quantum mechanics and the higher level
quantum theories.