because it would involve quantum field theory. Brief remarks offered here are aimed at suggesting
how this concept might be approached from the present perspective. First of all, that elementary
particles cannot be distinguished from each other within each of their types (electrons, photons,
quarks and so forth), while these types themselves are rigorously distinguished from each other, is
consistent with the notion that the nature of elementary particles and their behaviour are beyond
representation or even conception. Both features are consistently defined by the corresponding =
sets of effects manifested in measuring instruments, effects from which we infer the existences of :
elementary particles, in the first place. An elementary particle of a given type, say, an electron,
is defined by a given set (potentially very large, but specific to each particle type) of possible nee)
phenomena or events observable, as effects, in measuring instruments associated with it. This :
set is the same for all electrons, although the correlation between any such phenomenon and a]
any given electron can never be strictly (rather than statistically) assured, which already reflects DNS
the fact that electrons are indistinguishable from one another. To cite H. Weyl, ‘the possibility if
that one of the identical twins Mike and Ike is in the quantum state El and the other in the 3
quantum state E2 does not include two differentiable cases which are permuted on permuting .
Mike and Ike; it is impossible for either of these individuals to retain his identity so that one of
them will always be able to say ‘I’m Mike’ and the other ‘I’m Ike’. Even in principle one cannot
demand an alibi of an electron!’ [41, p. 241].!° One cannot be certain that one encounters the
same electron, say, in an experiment designed to detect it after it was emitted by a source, even in
quantum-mechanical regimes, although the probability that it would be a different electron is low.
The probability is much higher in high-energy regimes, governed by quantum electrodynamics,
where we are just as likely to detect a positron, an electron—positron pair, or a photon. Two
electrons could be distinguished by a changeable property associated with them (but, in the
present view, manifested only in measuring instruments), such as their positions in space or time,
momentums, energy or the directions of spins. Such variables may be subject to the uncertainty