Also, while all observational primary studies included in the reviews drew from data on
observed COVID-19 cases, phylogenetic data on the introduction of specific viral lineages in
relation to the timing of border control measures can also be insightful. For example, one study
found that more genetically distinct lineages in the UK had been imported from countries without
a mandatory 14-day quarantine period than from countries not subject to these measures after
they were introduced in the summer of 2020 [25]. Another study found that the strictest forms of
border control measures used in Switzerland led to an 86-98% reduction in lineages from abroad
[26]. Travel restrictions introduced in March 2020 may have limited the number of lineages of the
virus in Ukraine [27]. Another study found that most of the lineages that later dominated the Delta
variant wave had been introduced into the UK prior to the implementation of hotel quarantine
for incoming travellers [28]. Targeted travel restrictions against travellers from southern African
countries were largely ineffective at reducing the number of lineages of the Omicron variant in
the UK, owing to the fact that many lineages had already been imported by the time the measures
were put into place and because the USA quickly became an important source of introductions
and travellers from there were not subject to any form of control measure at the time [29].
There was also limited evaluation of the impact of border control measures on equity or other
considerations, which is another important limitation of the existing literature.

Border control measures can be among the most economically costly of the COVID-19 control
measures adopted during the pandemic. For example, evidence suggests that cross-border and
informal trade account for 40% of the gross domestic product and 55.7% of employment in sub-
Saharan Africa [18]. Given that nearly every country implemented some form of international
border control measure during the first few months of the pandemic and there were very large
reductions in international travel, it is important that we have a clear understanding of the extent
to which these measures contributed to a reduction in global transmission. This synthesis suggests