demonstrated a reduction in detectable genomic material after disinfection [80].

Barrier devices: A type of barrier device (known by different names such as aerosol boxes,
shields etc.) was used during aerosol generating procedures on COVID-19 positive patients in
healthcare settings. There are studies that report zero or reduced transmission to HCWs during
procedures where such barrier devices were employed [e.g. 81, 82]. However, the simultaneous
presence of many other NPIs during such procedures (full PPE etc.) makes it difficult to determine
the effectiveness of barrier devices on their own. In another study set in an office with poor
ventilation, an outbreak from an index case was reported in spite of the presence of plexiglass
screens between the workers [83]. This suggested that barrier devices did not provide adequate
protection against transmission in an environment with poor ventilation and long occupancy
periods. Interestingly, another study, again in an office setting, showed that certain kinds of barrier
devices might in fact lead to increased transmission of SARS-CoV-2 [84]. They used a CO tracer
decay method in an office which had a reported outbreak to show that the presence of screens in
the office impeded ventilation, leading to stagnation of air in certain zones.

6. Conclusion

Evidence from the literature suggests that EC NPIs of ventilation, air cleaning devices and limiting
room-occupancy may have a role in reducing transmission in specified settings. However, it is
important to recognize that this conclusion is based on evidence which was usually of low or
very low quality and hence the level of confidence ascribed to it is low. There were two significant
challenges that limited the confidence in evidence for the effectiveness of many NPIs examined:
(a) the low number of studies and (b) the low-quality assessment of the identified studies. What
does this mean for the future? It is recommended that future studies on NPIs should be prioritized