for quantum phenomena beyond conception altogether) in his discovery of QM. Heisenberg
eventually changed his position to a form of mathematical realism, with a Platonist bent.
He thought that it may be possible to represent the ultimate reality responsible for quantum
phenomena (and hence what happens between quantum experiments) by means of mathematics
apart from ordinary language or concepts, or even physical concepts, at least as the latter are
conventionally understood, say, in classical physics or relativity, while arguing that our language
and concepts could only apply, at the level of observation, to quantum phenomena [7] (pp.
145-189).

Nor, in RWR interpretations, does QM represent quantum phenomena themselves, which
are represented by classical physics, the assumption central for Bohr and to be designated as
the Bohr postulate, thus completing the trio of the main postulates assumed in this article—
the Heisenberg, Bohr and Dirac postulates. In fact, there is a quartet of postulates governing
this article if one adds Born’s rule, which is in effect the postulate, necessary to connect, in the
way explained below, the formalism to the outcomes of measurements (classical by the Bohr
postulate) in terms of probabilities. QM only predicts, in general probabilistically, the outcomes
of quantum experiments, registered classically, and to do so it requires Born’s rule. No other
predictions are, again, possible on experimental grounds, because the repetition of the identically
prepared quantum experiments in general leads to different outcomes. However, the nature of
the probabilities used is different from those of classical physics, even in realist interpretations of
QM. These probabilities are non-additive: the joint probability of two or more mutually exclusive
alternatives in which an event might occur is not equal to the sum of the probabilities for each
alternative, as in classical (Kolmogorovian) probability theory. How does QM calculate these
probabilities? Although routine by now, the mathematics of QM was a radical change from all
mathematics previously used in physics in the following aspects—the use of complex numbers,