Both Bohr and the present interpretation assume that the (RWR) reality ultimately responsible
for quantum phenomena exists independently, as does nature or matter, in the first place, which
amounts to the assumption that it has existed before we existed and will continue to exist when we
will no longer exist. On the other hand, while in Bohr’s interpretation, the concept of a quantum
object, such as an electron or a photon, is associated, on Kantian lines, with the RWR type reality
ultimately responsible for quantum phenomena, in the present interpretation, the concept of a
quantum object is assumed to be an idealization (of the RWR type) applicable only at the time of
observation. This assumption is the Dirac postulate.

At the same time, the present interpretation (or Bohr’s interpretation, which is not different in
this respect) does not imply a uniform or otherwise unified character of the ultimate, RWR-type,
reality considered in QM, a character only manifesting itself differently in quantum experiments.
In fact, this assumption would be manifestly in conflict with strong RWR interpretations, which
preclude any conception of this reality and, hence, that of its unity or oneness, uniform or not.
It is true that, as inconceivable, this reality cannot be assumed to conform to any concept of
multiplicity either. It cannot be conceived either as single or as multiple. Accordingly, the situation
is as follows. While each time unthinkable, this reality makes each quantum phenomenon, or by
the Dirac postulate, each quantum object, as an effect of this reality, singular and unrepeatable,
unique. Each quantum phenomenon manifests the inconceivable nature of this reality (or of the
corresponding quantum object, which remains beyond conception) each time one encounters this
reality through its effects. One can always repeat the set-up of a given measurement, because
this set-up can be classically controlled. Not so, however, as concerns the outcomes of thus
repeated measurements. Such outcomes are ideally the same and are predictable ideally exactly
in classical or relativistic experiments dealing with individual or simple systems. Probability
only enters when the systems considered have a great mechanical complexity. By contrast, in