complexity. By contrast, in QM, this recourse is unavoidable even in considering the most
elemental quantum objects, such as elementary particles, which, besides, cannot be considered
apart from their interaction with measuring instruments. This is because, as noted, the repetition
of identically prepared quantum experiments in general leads to different outcomes, and unlike
in classical physics, this difference cannot be diminished beyond the limit, defined by h, by
improving the capacity of our measuring instruments. It follows that the probabilistic character
of quantum predictions must hold in interpretations of QM or alternative theories of quantum
phenomena (such as Bohmian mechanics) that are classically causal. Thus, while in classical
physics, some theories are deterministic and others probabilistic or statistical, in quantum theory,
the behaviour of all systems considered, individual, no matter how elementary, can only be
treated probabilistically.

This fact as such does not exclude the classically causal nature of the ultimate reality
responsible for quantum phenomena, thus making the recourse of probability only a practical
matter similarly to classical physics when it used probability. In RWR interpretations, however,
QM or OFT is not classically causal because the ultimate nature of reality responsible for quantum.
phenomena is assumed to be beyond a representation or conception. Classical causality would
imply at least a partial conception of this reality. The recourse to probability becomes due to
the absence of classical causality for all quantum systems considered, and hence, fundamental,
irreducible rather than merely practical. It has nothing to do with, in Bohr’s words, ‘statistical
considerations as practical means of accounting for the properties of mechanical systems of
great structural complexity’ [6] (v. 2, p. 34). Instead it is a consequence of the singular, unique
nature and, correlatively, the essential indeterminacy or randomness of individual quantum
phenomena.® This randomness is not found in classical physics, because even when one must
use probability there, at bottom one deals with individual processes that are classically causal