‘Do you generally think President Clinton is honest and trustworthy?’ (which, if asked by itself,
tends to elicit the negative answer) and ‘Do you generally think Vice President Gore is honest and
trustworthy?’ (which, if asked by itself, tends to elicit the positive answer) in two sets of trials by
reversing their orders. These sets exhibit two statistically different outcomes. I have discussed the
case in detail in [30], and I shall only reprise those aspects of it not addressed in [30], such as the
nature of causality in this and related experiments.

According to Wang and Busemeyer: ‘Once we obtain a measurement on say, Clinton, that
decision can create a definite position for Clinton, but then the opinion regarding Gore must
be uncertain’ [33] (p. 2). This is not entirely accurate, or at least not sufficiently qualified. The
opinion of the subject regarding Gore is uncertain for an outside agent, who could, in any
event, never be certain what the subject actually thinks, even if the subject provides as much
information as possible concerning this thinking. In fact, subjects cannot be entirely certain, in
their consciousness, about their thinking either because of the unconscious. This is a fundamental
defining feature of human interactions (akin to that of the ultimate reality in quantum physics,
which can never be known or even conceivable to us) and it affects the Clinton—Gore experiment
as well. The opinion concerning Gore may be certain for the subject, alongside that concerning

15]f one instantly repeats the same measurement the outcome will be, or is commonly (there are exceptions) assumed, to be
the same. Apart, however, from the idealized nature of the assumption, I here refer to a very different repetition, that of the
whole set-up from the beginning, ab ovo (e.g. [9], p. 161, [32], pp. 213-218, 335).


Clinton. This makes the situation different from quantum physics, where this type of uncertainty
is indeed in place because of the uncertainty relations and complementarity. In quantum physics,