in a closer accord with the features and concepts of quantum phenomena and quantum theory
considered in this article remains an open question. Thus, would discreteness of a more rigorously
quantum type also find its place there (again, as against a more generally discrete nature of events
about which one makes predictions)? Correlatively, would there be something like a rigorously
complementary situation (or, correlatively, the uncertainty relations) corresponding to the non-
commutative nature of the quantum-mechanical formalism and probabilistically non-additive
character of such quantum-like models? That is, would, for example, one question of a given
non-commuting sequence of two questions in the psychological experiments mentioned above
automatically exclude the other? And if so, would non-realism in the spirit of Copenhagen also be
possible or necessary? Bohr thought so in the case of biology and, more tentatively, in psychology.
In the case of biology, he argued as follows (emphasis added):

The existence of life must be considered as an elementary fact that cannot be explained, but =)
must be taken as a starting point in biology, ina similar way as the quantum of action, which :B
appears as an irrational element from the point of view of the classical mechanical physics, :
taken together with the existence of elementary particles, forms the foundation of atomic D8
physics. The asserted impossibility of a physical or chemical explanation of the function
peculiar to life would in this sense be analogous to the insufficiency of the mechanical : ~
analysis for the understanding of the stability of atoms. [53, p. 458] 2B

In other words, the ultimate nature of biological processes may be unrepresentable or even :S
inconceivable, and hence unavailable to realist mathematical models. Bohr’s invocation of ‘an
irrational element’ is of some interest, and I shall return to it below [4, pp. 17-18]. It is important,
and was one of Bohr’s points, that this approach may be adopted even if the nature of biological
processes is not physically quantum in the sense of life being a physically quantum effect. In