ual achievements, they remain ‘conventional’ in the sense that they make no attempt
o shift from the standard quantum rules. In all these schemes it is Einstein’s theory
hat must give way, to be accommodated within an unbending quantum formalism.
t is my own strong opinion that the marriage between these two great theories
must, on the contrary, be a much more even-handed affair. The degree of experi-
mental confirmation of Einstein’s theory is now as impressive as that of quantum
field theory, according to the astonishing observations of Hulse and Taylor (cf. Taylor
998), concerning the binary pulsar PSR 1913+16. But the real reason for expecting
hat quantum theory, no less than general relativity, must bend its very rules is that
hese rules lead one essentially into paradox, when they are employed too far from
he situations to which quantum theory has been successfully applied.
The problem I refer to is what is called the measurement problem, which has to
do with the fact that the procedure that one adopts in order to treat ‘quantum sys-
ems’ does not appear to apply to large objects. This procedure is the evolution of a
quantum state according to Schrédinger’s equation (or equivalent), whereby super-
ositions of different alternative happenings must be treated as co-existing simulta-
neously, and this equation states that such superpositions should persist indefinitely.
However, in a quantum measurement, one alternative or another must be the result
(quantum state reduction), and this cannot be achieved simply by the Schrédinger-
evolution of the state alone. I have given reasons (Penrose 1996) why I believe that
quantum superpositions must become unstable when the distortions of space-time
hat they induce, according to Einstein’s general relativity, become significant. (The
ifetime of a superposition of two quantum states, each of which would be station-
ary on its own, can be calculated as approximately h/27Eq, where h is Planck’s
constant and Eg is the gravitational self-energy of that mass distribution which