platinum wires, which seem to show that the increase of resistance does not strictly
follow the parabolic law, but is affected hy some minor and comparatively unimportant
Bevariations which, from their very smallness (being of the order of 1° C.), are difficult to
mtake account of otherwise than in a graphic record. Moreover, the observations in
Equestion were taken on different days and under different circumstances, so that it
would be difficult to account for their agreement on any other hypothesis than that of
ome constant error affecting either the platinum or the air thermometer.
‘8 Observations (11) and (13) differ excessively from those in their immediate neigh-
Spourhood. On reference to the Table A.—v., it will be noticed that they were both
>taken with the temperature varying much too fast for purposes of accuracy; on
S the day in question the gas pressure was very variable, and it was difficult to get
good observations at steady temperatures. Observation (11) was further vitiated by
; the fact that some of the water had leaked from the glass case surrounding the bulb A,
£ and its level had been allowed to get too low. Observations (37) and (34) were taken
B at constant density, and differ from (35), (36), in the same direction and for the same
Syeasons that (5) differs from (4). This apparent difference is greater than that indi-
ts cated by theory, and may be due to some error in the value of V, the volume of the
A bulb; further and more careful experiments are required to clear up this point.
Observations at steady temperatures from the previous series of experiments
(Tables A.-I1., 10, Iv.) are entered in the diagram by means of small circles; they
are seen to agree with the curve as well as can be expected, considering the various
errors pointed out in each case to which the earlier experiments were liable. Had
the observations been more complete, the agreement would probably have been more
perfect. In order to render them comparable with the results of Series A.-v., the
same value of the coefficient of dilatation, namely, & = 272°90, has to be employed