
1-1. The problem of finding a complete solution of the elastic equations of equilibrium for
stresses in a plane plate is one of considerable analytical difficulty. Many of the difficulties
are removed when the problem becomes one of two dimensions which happens for a very
wide plate when the state of stress is known as ‘plane strain’, or for a very thin plate when
the state of stress is known as ‘plane stress’. Filon (1903) greatly extended the scope of the
two-dimensional analysis by his well-known theorem of ‘ generalized plane stress’ in which
the value of the stress 2z throughout the thickness of a plate whose faces are parallel to the
(x,y) plane is neglected and only the average values of the remaining stresses are evaluated.
This procedure has been widely adopted and great advances have been made in recent
years in solving special problems, particularly with the help of complex variable analysis.
Some discussion has taken place over the validity of the theory of generalized plane stress.
Southwell (1936) pointed out that it was in fact only necessary to assume that the average
value Zz of 2z taken through the thickness of the plate is zero. Alternative assumptions about
2z have been suggested by Green (1945) and Ghosh (1946), but the validity of these assump-
tions is still unknown. Ghosh (19464), in a slightly more general discussion than that given
by Southwell (1936), has shown that a state of stress is possible in a plate with 22 identically
zero, but the conditions at the edge of the plate cannot then be arbitrarily prescribed; so
that in a problem with given boundary conditions it is still not known how near the average
stresses found by the generalized plane stress theory are to the actual average values found
from a complete three-dimensional solution of the elastic equations.

It is therefore desirable that complete three-dimensional solutions should be obtained at
any rate for some of the standard problems dealt with by the generalized plane stress theory,
in order to get some accurate estimate of the validity of the theory. Such solutions have also,