approach [81]. In that study, skin biopsy samples were collected from volunteers, and washed to
remove excess blood. Clearly, this is a very different situation from the mummified samples in
this paper. The presence of residual amounts of blood with the tissue may well complicate the
interpretation of their results, because blood and serum are known to contain very high levels of
a small number of proteins. Nonetheless, their results provide a very useful baseline in terms of
what one would expect to find in the proteome of human skin from a living volunteer. The most
commonly found proteins in their results were different isoforms of keratin, which comes as no
surprise to anyone who has ever prepared samples in the laboratory for protein identification
by MS; human keratins are a ubiquitous and highly abundant contaminant resulting from
sample handling.

In contrast, in our results, the most abundant protein observed was various isoforms of
collagen. While it is not possible to distinguish the source of the keratins present, the fact that
they are present at much lower amounts than the collagens identified suggests that they originate
from the mummy. Contamination from sample handling would be expected to introduce keratins
in much greater abundance. Our morphological study clearly showed that these skin tissues
of Egyptian mummies are mainly composed of collagen fibres. Apart from the collagen fibres,
very few intact microscopic structures were observed in the mummified tissues. The typical
cross-striations of collagen fibres were not apparent on these SEM images; this indicates that the
collagen fibres were at least partly degraded. However, the collagen fibres observed profusely in
these images strongly corroborate our MS findings that large numbers of collagens still remained
in these ancient skin and muscle samples from Egyptian mummies. This is in accordance with
previous analysis of similar samples using microscopic and histological techniques, which clearly
showed that collagen fibres were well preserved. Collagens are abundant in many ancient tissue
