
(6) Vening Meinesz apparatus

(1) Horizontal accelerations. Details of the arrangement of the long-period pendulums and
the method of computing the second-order corrections from their records have already
been published (Meinesz 19412). At several stations the results obtained by this method
were compared with the measurements of the acceleration recorder, and it was found that
in general the values given by the Vening Meinesz apparatus were significantly greater.
The possibility of systematic errors must therefore be considered. The frequency spectrum
of the wave motion shows clearly that a considerable band of frequencies is present. This
will readily be appreciated when it is remembered that the record shown in figure 3 is
taken at a depth of 200 ft., and that at shallower depths effects of the shorter period waves
will predominate. This is confirmed by the fact that the damped pendulum record which is
used to estimate the correction for tilting of the swinging plane of the main pendulums
shows marked oscillations, indicating that the natural period of the gimbal system (approxi-
mately 2-3 sec.) is being excited. When computing the second-order corrections, a factor is
introduced to allow for the effect of resonance of both the gimbal system and long-period
pendulums. This factor is almost independent of frequency for a considerable band in the
region of 8 to 9 sec., but if wave periods widely different from this value are present the
magnification factor estimated from the ‘mean wave period’ will certainly be too small.
An estimate of the magnitude indicates, however, that this error can hardly exceed 10%
even under the most severe conditions encountered. The damping of the long-period
pendulums and the fact that their knife edges are above the axis of the gimbals will also tend
to cause a slight overestimate of the acceleration, but their combined effects cannot exceed
a few per cent. These errors account for part of the observed discrepancy but not all of it.