that the doubling of the asymmetric unit is here rather different from that produced
by association of hydroxyl groups and due to some more purely geometrical aspect of
molecule packing. The same may be said of the remaining exceptions, but it is plain
that it would be practically impossible to distinguish at least between the other
acetates and normal double-layer structures on the data so far collected. The remaining
two compounds, cholestane-4-ol and 6-ol, raise still further problems. The examination
of cholestane-4-ol has not yet been taken as far as space group determination, but it is
certain that the structure type is not exactly that shown by any of the derivatives
examined with the hydroxyl group at C3. This seems very reasonable. The hydroxy]
group is in a nearly terminal position, and a double layer would be expected, as
observed, rather different in character from the normal variety. Cholestane-6-ol ELCOH
is, on the other hand, exceedingly similar morphologically to cholesterol H,O. It is,
in fact, the only derivative in the table that might on cursory inspection be mistaken
for cholesterol H,O. The crystal structure in both cases is of an irregular and com-
plicated variety from which it is impossible to expect to draw exact conclusions at this
stage. And while a very natural deduction from the direct comparison of the two
structures would certainly be that in both the hydroxyl group is at C3, one fact, the
further doubling of the ¢ dimension in cholesterol H,O compared with cholestane-6-ol,
is against it. In any case there is evidently a relation of an intimate geometrical
character between cholestane-6-ol and cholesterol H,O.

In the formation of double-layer structures the terminal hydroxyl groups may either
interact directly with one another or through water molecules. Examples of both
varieties of interaction are well known already in the crystal structures of oxalic acid
and oxalic acid dihydrate (Hendricks 1935; Robertson 1936). Among the sterols the