MOW (eng = —9.4 0.6) [47] is only hinted at in the northernmost station in the Gulf of Cadiz : S
(€Nd = —10.3 to —10.8 between 657 and 1482 m water depth; station 1 in figure 5). For reference, 2
table 1 summarizes our best estimates for the source compositions of key intermediate and deep aed
water masses in the North Atlantic. 22

Overall, seawater Nd concentrations and isotopic compositions are partially decoupled (i.e. : S
the Nd paradox; figure 7). Neodymium concentrations correlate well with nutrients in the upper : s
water column, owing to the adsorption of Nd onto (organic) particles and subsequent release :B
upon remineralization [45,46]. The exceptions are areas of surface Nd input around Grand Banks 13

(GA02; Labrador Current) and the Mauritanian shelf (GA03; dust input; figure 6). Minimum
Nd concentrations are observed over the depth of the mixed layer, below which they start to
increase alongside phosphate concentrations, consistent with the fact that approximately 50% of
the phosphate in the upper water column is regenerated, and with the hypothesis that scavenged
Nd is released when organic matter is remineralized. Notably, the phosphate maximum and
the coincident Nd concentration maximum are both more strongly expressed in the eastern
basin than in the western basin (figure 7). Below that level, Nd concentrations decrease slightly
with depth, are fairly constant between 1000 and 2500m depth, and then increase towards the
bottom. These features are observed throughout the subtropics, with zonally remarkably similar
Nd concentrations, in contrast to distinct phosphate concentrations in both sections (figure 7b;
cf. figure 7d). The similarity in the Nd concentration profiles also differs from the rather distinct
shapes of the Nd isotope profiles between the sections (figure 7b; cf. figure 7a), suggesting at least
partially different controls on these properties.

If Nd isotopes can be used as a tracer for ocean circulation, then eng values should delineate