we show in figure 3, above the I’-point stronger spatial variation appears. However, while this
modulation itself is related to differences in how the dipole interactions add up in the array, the
modulation does not give rise to clear qualitative changes in the far-field intensity pattern. Note
that the peaks along the x-axis are in (or close to) the array plane and might not be measured in
all experimental set-ups. Note also that they are a totally different phenomenon from the beating
pattern observed around the normal to the xy-plane direction (z-direction) in reference [6].

Figure 8 shows the power emitted through a sphere from the array of oscillating dipoles
according to the CDA for a few different array sizes. The emission peak just below the I’-point
becomes sharper with increasing array size, whereas it is very small in an array of 25 x 25
nanoparticles. As is clear the emission power peaks just below the I-point and minimizes just
above it. This behaviour has a marked dependence on the array size, as the contrast between the
power maximum and minimum becomes more pronounced as the array gets larger. The fact that
dipolar losses and extinction are drastically reduced just above the I’-point suggests a stronger
role for quadrupolar excitations in that region. Furthermore, this indicates that the incident plane
wave couples relatively less strongly to the nanoparticles in this region of energies and other types
of driving could be more relevant, such as driving from nearby dipoles of dye molecules.

In figure 3, we showed an example of dipolar distributions below and above the I’-point. In
figure 3, it seems the dipoles either decay or are enhanced towards the edges along the x-direction
and that this behaviour is related to whether we are below or above the ’-point. However, while
the behaviour below the I’-point is robust to details, above the I'-point there is a dependence on
the system size and on how far above the I’-point we are. In figure 9, we show an example of the
magnitude of the dipoles for a larger array and at somewhat higher energy. We can see that there
is a longer-wavelength modulation also along the x-direction, so that more crests become visible