number Re, = u;h/v, where h is an appropriate outer length scale such as the BL thickness, quasi-
coherent flow structures also arise in the outer region of the BL (i.e. outside the buffer layer),
where the long-time mean dynamics are inertially dominated. These structures, too, have been
observed and studied in laboratory experiments and DNS. Moreover, Hwang et al. [11,12] recently
have employed over-damped large-eddy simulations strategically designed to isolate large-scale :
structures away from the wall for Re, ~ 100-1000. To date, however, quantitative theories— =
systematically developed from the governing incompressible Navier-Stokes (NS) equation—that 3
describe the essential nonlinear dynamics by which self-organized flow features in the inertial :
layer are maintained have not been developed to the extent that is true for their near-wall nee)
counterparts. One exception is the large Reynolds number asymptotic theory developed by :
Deguchi & Hall [13], who demonstrate that coherent vortical structures (nearly) in the free stream a]
of laminar BL flows that approach their free-stream speeds exponentially with distance from the DN
wall can be self-sustained independently of near-wall excitation. (In fact, these authors show that aot
the free-stream structures can drive strong streaky flows adjacent to the wall.) Nevertheless, their [3S
theory does not specifically account for flow features observed within the inertial layer, the subject .

of interest here.

Such quantitative theories are desirable for at least two reasons. First, they provide a
framework for understanding the mechanisms controlling the formation and evolution of flow
structures within the inertial layer, which ultimately may facilitate high-fidelity numerical
simulations of wall-bounded flows at extreme values of Re, (> 10*) by guiding the development
of customized, e.g. multi-scale, numerical algorithms. Second, elucidation of the intrinsic
nonlinear dynamics and structure of the inertial layer is a necessary prerequisite for increased
understanding of ‘inner—outer’ interactions, understanding that may be leveraged for the design