
the 890cm™! series tend towards the 993cm~! frequency in ethane as n decreases.
As the paraffin chain lengthens, weak absorption bands are found in the range 1060 to
890 cm~!, their number increasing with increasing ; these can readily be interpreted
as arising from the other skeletal stretching modes. Normal co-ordinate calculations
with reasonable force constants (for example, Stepanov 1947) have consistently indicated
that the w series lies at lower frequencies than the « series (although this order could be
reversed if less plausible force constants were chosen). The 1140 cm~! series, on the other
hand, shows none of the characteristics predicted for the skeletal series and for this
reason is considered to arise principally from the in-plane methyl rocking modes R,. The
1120 cm™ series has a symmetry class combination appropriate to the y skeletal or the R,
methyl rocking modes. If this series were interpreted as the yf skeletal series then it should
move towards the o series near 890 cm~! with increasing n; in fact, it is observed to move
away from this value and converges towards the 1140 cm~! series as the chain lengthens.
Further, if it is the skeletal series it should converge to the « skeletal frequency in pro-
pane, i.e. 1053 cm~!. However, it moves away from this value as the chain length de-
creases and can be traced back smoothly to an origin at 923 cm~! in propane. This
evidence suggests that it is more satisfactory to attribute the 1120 cm™! series to the in-
plane methyl rocking modes, R,. Such an assignment has already been made for the
923 cm~! band of propane on deuteration evidence (McMurry & Thornton 1951).

The foregoing assignments of the observed series shown in figures 9 Y and 9 Y are based
on the simplest theoretical predictions; nevertheless, they present an interpretation of the
spectra of the crystalline n-paraffins which is straightforward and self-consistent ; moreover,
this interpretation fits in convincingly with the accepted assignments of the fundamental