studies of the periods of swell off the coast of Morocco (1937, 1941 4, 4) indicated that they
were in fact about twice the microseism periods. In a comparison of the Kew seismograms
with records of waves taken at Perranporth in Cornwall, Deacon (1947) independently
arrived at the same conclusion.

It has been pointed out (Longuet-Higgins & Ursell 1948) that Miche, in a theoretical
study of wave motion (1944), discovered that the mean pressure on the bottom beneath a
train of standing waves is not constant, as in a progressive wave, but fluctuates with an
amplitude independent of the depth and proportional to the square of the wave height. This
oscillation is of precisely the type required for the generation of ground movement, for not
only is it unattenuated with depth (and is therefore the most important term at depths greater
than about half a wave-length) but also, being in phase at all points of the bottom, it is suit-
able for producing long seismic waves. A further remarkable fact is that the frequency of
this pressure variation is twice the fundamental frequency of the waves. Owing to the cus-
tomary neglect of terms of higher order than the first, this term had been overlooked, the
standing wave being in the first approximation the sum of two progressive waves of equal
amplitudes travelling in opposite directions. A shorter proof of Miche’s result, bringing to

+ An attempt was made by Banerji (1935) to show that the compressibility of the water would allow
pressure variations of the same period as the surface waves to be transmitted to depths great compared with
the wave-length. However, an error in his analysis was pointed out by Whipple & Lee (1935, p. 295).
In the same paper (1935) Banerji describes experiments in which he set up waves of length 2 to 6 cm. in
tanks of depth 84 to 108 cm. and observed the oscillations in a tube of diameter 4 cm. sunk to varying depths
and open at the lower end. Appreciable oscillations were observed at all depths. Banerji’s results are difficult
to interpret, but it seems unlikely that the compressibility of the water can have affected experiments on