Calculations are in progress to find the field produced by specified motions in the core.
From these it will be possible to compute the forces on a mantle of given conductivity. Until
these computations are complete we must be content with cruder arguments. Let it be
supposed that the core is divided into inner and outer parts of radii 6 and a and that each
rotates like a rigid body. Let their angular velocities be w, and w, and their conductivity x.
Suppose them surrounded by a mantle of outer radius R and conductivity «, rotating with
angular velocity @,. This system departs from reality in that the continuous radial variation
in angular velocity in the core is replaced by a discontinuous one. Further, no radial motion
is provided, and thus the system cannot act as a self-maintaining dynamo; we therefore
arbitrarily suppose a field to exist and compute the couple on the mantle. There is some
latitude in the choice of field. We take a uniform field parallel to the axis and a central
dipole as representing two extremes in radial variation between which the truth must lie.
In fact the results do not depend critically on the radial variation of the field so long as it
has its known value of about 4 gauss in the mantle near the core.

The relative rotation of the two parts of the core produces currents (.S, currents in Elsasser’s
notation) flowing in meridian planes downwards near the equatorial plane thence towards
the poles along paths near the axis and back towards the equator near the surface. These
currents produce a toroidal field (7) which encircles the axis from west to east in the northern
hemisphere and from east to west in the southern. All this has been thoroughly discussed in
II and II. If the mantle is a conductor of electricity the 5, currents on their way to the
equator will flow partly in the mantle and their interaction with the dipole field there will
produce a couple. We require to know for what angular velocity of the mantle this couple
will vanish, and how long it will take it to re-establish this angular velocity if it is disturbed.
