
In the case of very close discharges the recovery curve is complicated by local effects.
Immediately after a close discharge the electric field at the ground may be more
intense than the cloud can maintain. This intense field is commonly ascribed to a space
charge in the lower layers of the atmosphere and would be expected to die away
rapidly. In the intense field after the flash, the space charge, if it consist of free ions,
is driven downwards towards the ground; assuming that the field-change reversed the
direction of the field there may thus be a sudden large rush of ionization current to
the earth’s surface and to any exposed conductors. (A suggestion of such an effect,
detected as an apparent shift in the zero after several close flashes, has been noted
in the discussion of the records of the storm of 20 May 1928.) Also, there is an up-
ward rush of ions of opposite sign discharged from projecting points near the earth’s
surface. It is, in fact, observed that when a close discharge creates a very intense field,
the initial rate of recovery may be very large, in some cases greater than 1-0 sec.~!.
In fig. 9 the initial rate of recovery has been plotted against the value of the potential
gradient immediately after the field-change for close discharges in cases where that
gradient was large. The diagram shows a definite tendency for very rapid recovery
when the potential gradient is very large but the scatter of the individual points is
considerable. It is only when the gradient is very large indeed (greater than perhaps
25,000 V/m.) that the initial rate of recovery is always found to be very large. For
gradients between 10,000 and 20,000 V/m. the average rate of recovery is still high,
but the individual figures are so variable that the rate cannot be uniquely determined
by the value of the gradient just after the discharge. The conditions in and below the
cloud may be very variable, and it is conceivable that variations in the efficiency of
the natural sources of point-discharge current at the earth’s surface may occur, (It