A discharge from the negative base of the cloud into the positive space charge beneath
it, but stopping short of the ground, would also give effects of the type observed.
Discharges of this type have been photographed by Schonland ef al. (1935). The very
short reversal distance, in some cases apparently less than 3 km., rather favours the
second interpretation. The regular occurrence of positive charge in the base of the
cloud cannot, therefore, be considered to be yet established with certainty.

There is, on the other hand, no ambiguity about the distribution of charge in the
main portion of the cloud, and the question arises as to the mechanism by which these
charges are produced. The induction process suggested by Wilson (1929) and demon-
strated experimentally by Gott (1933, 1935) is the only theory producing electrification
of the correct sign which has been developed in any detail. Simpson and Scrase (1937)
raise a series of objections to this theory based on the fact that the estimated tempera-
tures in the main body of the cloud are well below freezing point. They conclude,
therefore, that all the larger particles will be ice crystals and that there will be no
particles which can fall more rapidly than the rate at which positive ions are dragged
down by the field. It is, of course, necessary to assume, as Wilson (1929) clearly stated,
that in strong fields the positive ions are of low mobility due to their attachment to
nuclei or cloud particles. This assumption is unavoidable whether the larger particles
are ice crystals or water drops. The velocity of the ions, even in a field of 10,000 V/cm.,
is then only a few centimetres per second and the observed form of the recovery curve,
after a discharge or, indeed, the development of strong fields at all is sufficient evidence
that negatively charged particles do fall more rapidly than this. Moreover, the
spherical shape and conductive property of the water-drop are not essential to the
Wilson mechanism. Recent investigators (Errera 1924; Wintsch 1932; Murphy 1934)