twentieth century was of an endlessly growing economy, allied to the notion that both cultural :s
and material rewards were more widely and evenly distributed than ever before. In the context of [8

the Cold War, this frame had a more or less explicitly ideological relevance in the West. Hence it
is more than an aside to note that what environmental historians and scientists have dubbed the
‘great acceleration’ [23] that transformed Western economies and societies was not just televised:
it made television the culturally powerful medium that it is today. The explosive expansion of
TV set ownership, the advertising industry, the advent of colour television and the increase of
material demand in the second half of the twentieth century were all closely interrelated. The
travel and home improvement strands of the emergent genre of factual entertainment were
prominent examples of the ways in which hydrocarbons, technology and increased earnings
across the middle and working classes were combining to offer new freedoms, life choices
and experiences. Documentary and factual magazine shows followed the changing nature of
technology, work, community and home life. They were frequently presented with a celebratory
tone. This found echoes in aspirational dimensions of sitcoms and dramas. Satellites and the
space race both enabled and represented a globally distributed sense of exhilaration at technical,
and implicity social, progress. This was nicely expressed in the first live global satellite-enabled
broadcast Our World, of 25 June 1969, which included a premiere live rendition by the Beatles of
All You Need is Love.

However, the notion of a broadcast media-generated sense of a shared ‘global’ identity was
quickly joined by more difficult knowledge: that is, of the possibility that our planetary home was
threatened by humanity itself. A parallel and critical set of storylines came to prominence in the
1960s and early 1970s concerning resource crises, population and threats to both civilization and
‘nature’. The specifically environmental hazards and losses generated by the great acceleration