household electronic appliances and white goods could potentially offer a way to better facilitate
consumer engagement with issues relating to the consumption of electrical devices. However, it
is first necessary to understand how such emotions are expressed and what triggers them. This
was the starting point for this research. We found that people did express regret about purchasing
electrical devices. Importantly, we show that ‘regret’ (and negative emotion more generally) was
not only the result of poor individual choice, but fundamentally embedded in a range of everyday
practices that drive socio-technical change.

Our findings also reveal that feelings of regret and negative emotion were complex, relating
not only to the initial purchase of items, but also to such factors as product performance
(including energy consumption, noise levels, etc.), appearance, lifespan and overall utility
(table 3). On the simplest level, unhappiness with consumption was found to occur when devices
did not enable or, in fact, actually inhibited the performance of desired practices. Importantly,
participants also talked about the pressure to keep up with socio-technical change and discussed
obsolescence, both of which necessitated the constant updating of devices (e.g. laptops, smart
phones)—something that they resented having to do.

The fast pace of technological change in ICT equipment, for example, meant that our
participants felt forced to constantly acquire new devices to enable them to benefit from the latest
technological developments. In short, fast technological change was met with mixed emotions. On
the one hand, participants embraced the ability to perform practices such as communicating in
new (and often more convenient) ways, but still felt frustrated with what Packard [30] described
as ‘functional obsolescence’. While appliances (e.g. laptops) were still technically operational, their
performance was seen as increasingly limited as both software and expectations moved on.
