developed and developing economies combine with trade interlocks within and between regions
to create even greater complexity. In such systems, there can be unintended, environmentally
damaging consequences of even well-intentioned attempts at change. Attempts to reduce material
use in one part of a complex system might only result in increasing material use in another. For
example, attempts to reduce driving (and hence the consumption of fuel) could have a rebound
effect when consumers use the money that is freed up to take more (flying) vacations or buy more
clothes. As a result, emissions might even increase, resulting in ‘backfire’. Druckman et al. [56],
for instance, estimate that ‘the rebound effect for a combination of three abatement actions by UK
households is approximately 34%. They also find that, ‘re-spending on goods and services with a
high GHG intensity leads to backfire.’

Second, some technologies and trends that hold out the promise of a frugal economy might
not in fact result in the projected environmental and material demand savings. For instance, while
additive manufacturing and three-dimensional printing might reduce material demand, they are
also (currently) highly energy intensive. Further, while a move to service-based economies might
result in less manufacturing-related emissions, it is well known that services also carry embodied
emissions. As Xenos [112] puts it: ‘It takes a lot to be a minimalist: social capital, a safety net and
access to the internet.’ Finally, while the sharing economy is frugal in making better use of spare
assets, its environmental benefits are not entirely clear. As Frenken [113] points out, ‘the jury is out
on the environmental benefits of sharing practices that undoubtedly encourage greater efficiency
in the use of resources but in doing so lower prices and so encourage rebounds or result in a
problem-exchange—sharing clothing but dry cleaning after every use.’


Third, while the frugal innovation approach holds out the promise of a business-led systemic