using a QPG becomes possible [12]. The disadvantage of single-pass configurations on the other sd
hand is that they do not have the intrinsic spectral filtering of a cavity. Therefore, much care has ,
to be taken into the spectral engineering of the nonlinear process.

Using squeezed states in combination with the QPG requires that the spectral properties of the
squeezed states are adapted to the QPG. Single-pass parametric down-conversion (PDC) could
be used to this end. Spectral engineering of pure quantum states generated by PDC in single-
pass configurations has been demonstrated in potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) [13] and
in potassium titanyl phosphate (KTP) at telecom wavelengths [14-16]. The process has further
been implemented in KTP waveguides [17], which restrict the process to a single spatial mode
and increase the process efficiency due to the strong confinement along the whole propagation
length. This allowed one to generate mean photon numbers of 20 while maintaining the single-
mode character [18]. The fact that the single-mode states can be driven to such high mean
photon numbers suggests that strong squeezing in controlled temporal modes is feasible in such
waveguides.

In this publication, we review the engineering of PDC and FC with the focus on integrated
devices. Restricting ourselves to waveguides, we do not consider spatial correlations and assume
that all processes happen in one spatial mode only. We then present a spatial analogy of the
pulse gate, which allows us to develop simple interpretations of its performance on multi-photon
states. For the prospect of combining it with squeezed input states, we review the limitations on
integrated PDC sources and estimate the achievable squeezing with realistic sources. Whereas
high squeezing can be generated in principle with integrated devices, the current limitation for
combining it with the pulse gate for quantum information science lies in the limited conversion
efficiencies of experimentally demonstrated pulse gates.