have hoped for an agreement of the order of 0-01%,. Such an expectation is, however,
based on the assumption that the errors due to blending are fortuitous. This, no doubt,
is sometimes legitimate, but it is certainly not so for o’ = 9 — 11, in each of which two
branches are unresolved throughout, with the consequent probability of serious
systematic error. This will be greatest when it is the P and R branches which are
superposed, since the errors of the two are bound to be opposite in sign and therefore
additive when the combination differences are taken. The band v' = 10, in which
the P and R branches are unresolved, does, in fact, show the largest discrepancy. The
values of B’ showed, as usually, an approximately linear variation with v’, but again
there were pronounced irregularities. In order to examine the nature of these more
closely, the two sets of differences between successive values of B were plotted. There
appeared to be a certain correspondence between them, and this suggested a method
of using the B” values to correct those of B’. The basis of this is the fact that since
the same lines are used in both, except for several at the ends of the series, the error
in B resulting from errors, systematic or otherwise, in the original wave numbers, should
be the same in both. But we know that the B” values should all be identical ; although
they differ appreciably the mean of the seven cannot be much in error, and the deviations
from the mean can therefore be applied, with due regard to sign, as corrections to the
B’ values. When this was done, a very great improvement in the regularity of the
B’ differences was apparent ; in fact, they lay extremely well on a straight line, except
for the two involving B’,. The end lines involved were therefore carefully examined
to see whether any of them appeared to be abnormally inaccurate, as judged by their
position relatively to the neighbouring lines of the branch. If we denote by J; and J,
the first and last J values in question, so that the first and last differences are
F(J,-+ 1) — F(J,;— 1) and F (J, + 1) — F (J, — 1), respectively, the following lines