rise to the same spatial structures. As a result, it is useful on the theoretical side to find the
minimal set of biophysical mechanisms under which typically observed patterns may appear
in water-limited systems. Most existing mathematical models of vegetation pattern formation
assume an interplay between short-range facilitation and long-range competition. While it is clear
that such a combination of mechanisms is probably responsible for patterns in some conditions—
for example, regular stripes on hillsides [9]—whether or not both mechanisms must always be
present for pattern formation is an open question. While competition for water is likely to be
the key factor for semiarid systems, some studies [11,12] have suggested that local facilitative
interactions may be unnecessary, or of only minor importance, for pattern formation. Following
these ideas, the authors have recently introduced a model of vegetation density for water-limited
regions where only competition among plants is considered [3]. Here, the interaction enters by
allowing the growth rate of a plant to diminish with the number of other individuals competing
with it for resources (water). Despite the fact that facilitation is ignored, this non-local competition
model produces a spectrum of spatial patterns similar to the one observed in models assuming
that both facilitation and competition are necessary.

In this paper, we extend the results of Martinez-Garcia et al. [3] to address several open
questions. (i) Do patterns depend on how competition enters in the dynamical equations?
(ii) What is the role of nonlinearities? (iii) Can simple models featuring non-local competition be
derived from more fundamental ones that consider the dynamics of plants and water sources? To
answer these questions, we present a set of non-local models with only competitive interactions
that enter in the equations either linearly or nonlinearly. In the latter case, we complement our
previous work by also allowing non-local competition to enter in the death term. Patterns emerge
in all of these models, and in a sequence related to the one observed in standard facilitative—
competitive models. We also present preliminary results on how the non-local density equations