diagonalization, and is even capable of working directly in the thermodynamic limit for
translationally invariant systems [3]. The success of DMRG has been greatly clarified by the
advent of quantum information-theoretic ideas such as the entanglement structure of quantum
states and the language of matrix product states (MPSs) [2,4]. The basic premise of the DMRG is
the relatively small entanglement present in the ground states of most gapped local Hamiltonians.
Specifically, such states obey an area law, that is, the bipartite entanglement entropy Sg
between two subsystems scales with the area of the boundary separating the regions [5,6]. As :
a consequence the states can be efficiently represented with controllable error by MPSs which es
allow efficient computation of desired operator expectation values with controlled errors. This 3
representability is coupled in practice with findability—which is the existence of efficient algorithms, [8
such as the original DMRG algorithm, which find the desired representation in a time that scales :
polynomially—indeed linearly—with system size. While for the DMRG algorithm this scaling is ia
an empirical fact about some unknown dynamical system,! there now also exists an algorithm Dw
that provably solves the problem in a time that scales polynomially in system size [8]. DMRG also :
works very well for critical points, where Sg grows logarithmically with subsystem size which is :g
modest enough to allow sufficient accuracy. a

For thermalizing systems this cluster of ideas fails when addressed to highly excited :
eigenstates—eigenstates with a finite energy density corresponding to a non-zero temperature—
due to the volume law entanglement that is generically present in these states. However, in
many-body localized (MBL) systems [9-14] even highly excited eigenstates exhibit area law
entanglement [11,15] which leads to the possibility [16,17] that excited states can be constructed
efficiently via DMRG-like algorithms in a manner analogous to ground states. Being able to
evade the size restrictions on many-body exact diagonalization (MBED) in this fashion would be
particularly useful in studying the eigenstate phase transition [18-20] from a volume law-obeying