equilibrium point of an n d.f. system there are at least n PO whose periods are close to those
of the linearized system. Moser [30] gave generalizations of this theorem to unstable equilibria. A
survey of the existence theorems of PO for nonlinear dynamical systems is presented in [31,32].

Centre-saddle (CS) bifurcations of PO are ubiquitous and their existence is supported by
the Newhouse theorem [21,33] initially proved for dissipative dynamical systems, and also it
was later extended to Hamiltonian systems [34,35]. The theorem states that tangencies of the
stable and unstable manifolds associated with unstable equilibria and PO generate an infinite
number of period doubling and CS bifurcations. Hence, the originally single unstable PO (named
Lyapunov orbits) of the fundamental families of index-1 saddles are expected to generate such CS
bifurcations as their manifolds expand along the unstable degree of freedom.

As a matter of fact, intersections of the stable and unstable manifolds coming either from
the same or different Lyapunov PO generate homoclinic and heteroclinic orbits respectively [21],
which connect remote regions of phase space. Their numerical location is not easy and that
makes PO families more precious in studying the entanglement of the molecular phase space
at high excitation energies. For polyatomic molecules the large number of index-1 saddles
and their associated Lyapunov families of PO, which are spread over the configuration space,
generate a network of heteroclinic/homoclinic orbits, where trajectories may be trapped. This
will considerably alter the dynamics of molecule from those deduced from the minimum energy
pathways of PES. An example will be given in the next section.

If we want to go beyond the linear approximation, in order to construct tori, normally
hyperbolic invariant manifolds and generally (un)stable invariant manifolds, the method of
normal forms is a powerful one. The aim of normal form approximation is to build a series of