the function takes values is something concrete and sufficiently self-evident that we think of it 18
as directly observable (such as an integer or fraction or the real numbers obtained by completing :s
fractions), then we can say that f has a value at x as some kind of measurement. Now the thing 13
is that f is also an element of a space of maps from X, let us call this X, and who is to say that
the number f(x) is not actually x(f), the value of x at this point f in X? Mathematics itself has this
striking duality between observer and observed running through it. Usually X has some structure
and we want f to respect it, which in turn gives X some structure. In the dual point of view, we

think of X as X and, in the nicest cases, this could be an identification of the two. The idea then
is that, if physics is a branch of mathematics, its central axiom should relate to the nature of what
actually physics is. Physics is nothing if it is not the assumption that some structure is ‘out there’
and that one can do an experiment to verify it. An experiment of course involves measuring
or observing something, but actually what is an experimental fact is not something that really
exists in isolation. Any experiment of any complexity usually involves a theory or some abstract
relationship predicted by theory, and from a theorist’s point of view an experiment ‘maps out’ or
confirms the assumed theory. In this sense, an experiment represents a theoretical structure. From
a dual point of view, however, an experimentalist might consider that their observations are self-
evident facts and a theory merely compactly represents these data. For example, data points fall
approximately on a line and the theorist represents this as a linear relationship. This suggests a
kind of dualism in which either point of view should be equally correct as to which is the ‘real
thing’ and which is its set of representations. Clearly this is an idealization or crude model of a
much richer relationship but we see it as a key feature, as well as providing a particular answer
to the question posed by Plato’s cave [3].

Although we do not attempt to model the precise nature of theory and experiment across the