structure. If we take a more categorical view of group duals, then the dual of a non-Abelian


Lie group generally comes down to quantization, such as the method of co-adjoint orbits or
the construction of the relevant representations of the Poincaré group in flat space-time by
particle waves of different mass and spin. The dual object consists of all of these considered
together. Geometrically, we are diagonalizing natural Laplacians or wave operators. The same
principle applies when the space-time is a compact Lie group, the particle content is closely
related to its representation theory. Compact Lie groups, on the other hand, are the simplest
examples of Riemannian manifolds and we can similarly, albeit more loosely, think of the ‘dual’
of the latter as coming down to quantum mechanics or wave operators of different types. Recall
that quantum mechanics in nice cases can be seen as the non-relativistic limit of the Klein—
Gordon space-time Laplacian for fields where e~mt/h is factored out. In fact a Riemannian or
pseudo-Riemannian manifold cannot be totally reconstructed from the scalar Laplacian alone,
but if we use the Dirac operator, then one has Connes’ reconstruction of a spin manifold from
an abstractly defined ‘spectral triple’ in the commutative case [17]. Either way, if one extends
these ideas from classical to quantum field theory, then logically an aspect of this should be
that it corresponds to quantum Riemannian geometry, where space-time coordinates become non-
commutative. This should then be taking us towards the self-dual axis as shown in figure 1.
Interestingly, [18] have now constructed quantum field theories on curved space-times as functors
from the monoidal category of globally hyperbolic space-times to non-commutative C*-algebras
with tensor product, which is some kind of arrow from QFT to monoidal functors in figure 1.
Such functors are not self-dual under ( )°, but then this is not yet quantum gravity. At any
rate, one could speculate in this context that Einstein’s equation might eventually emerge as
the classical limit of a self-duality condition as it equates the Einstein tensor from the geometry