way of a ‘recovery’ from an ‘overshoot’ through negative emissions. That is, the ambition of : XS
actual mitigation now ought not to be reduced on the basis of reliance on assumed later negative _
emissions. : Ref

That it might be safe to rely on a subsequent recovery from excessive emissions is far from : =
clear for a number of quite different kinds of reasons, including serious grounds for doubting the 3
feasibility of deployment of NETs at sufficient scale [19,21]. However, the failing of all NETs that : e

we especially need to note here is the ratchet effect of passing tipping points during the process
of ‘overshoot’. If some types of NETs can be made to work at global scale, then the atmospheric
accumulation of CO, can go down as well as up. But if that accumulation, even if it ultimately
turns out to have been transitory itself, drives some crucial factor affecting the climate past a
point of no return, that change in climate will be permanent in spite of the fact that its cause was
temporary. Temporary changes can produce permanent effects.

For example, the cryogenic scientists who have concluded that the West Antarctic Ice Sheet
(WAIS) probably is now irreversibly melting think that the reason why the melting is irreversible
is that the crucial Thwaites Glacier is a marine-based ice sheet: it rests on land but that land is
under water [22,23]. And as the land on which the ice rests moves away from the ocean, it slopes
downwards under the ice sheet. The forward edge of the glacier at its grounding line—the last
point at which the ice sheet rests on land—is in contact with ocean water. This opens the glacier
to ‘basal melt by ocean heat flux’—warm ocean water can melt the front of the bottom edge of
the ice sheet. If, as is the case with the Thwaites Glacier, the land on which the ice rests slopes
downwards as it moves inland, the melting is able to move downhill, reducing the friction with
the land under the ice sheet and allowing the ice to slide more rapidly into the sea. No one has