sets of heavy and light granules, suggesting the emergence of a periodic travelling wave pattern 22
that is being excited in association with a periodicity of two granules. The wavenumber analysis 7S
reveals the excitation of these states in a transient way for resonance R1 until the beating pattern 13
forms. On the contrary, in resonance R2 the pattern is persistent, enabling the continuous targeted .
energy transfer from the principal propagating pulse to the trailing wave tail. In R2, when the
wave tail disintegrates to chaotic oscillations, the length scale also spreads out widely.

These results demonstrate the effects of nonlinear TET on the acoustics of uncompressed
ordered granular media, in similarity to TET in the dynamics of discrete oscillators discussed
in the previous section. Specifically, irreversible nonlinear energy transfers from low-to-high
frequencies/wavenumbers have been presented, yielding strong energy redistribution in the
frequency/wavenumber space. This redistribution is caused by the strongly nonlinear (in
fact, nonlinearizable) local Hertzian interactions between granules, which generate essentially
nonlinear acoustics, with no linear counterparts. It is noted that any applied pre-compression
would yield a linear component in the acoustics [36], yet, provided that the pre-compression is
small the previous findings would still hold. On the other hand, strong pre-compression would
generate weakly nonlinear acoustics and the previous strongly nonlinear phenomena would not
expect to hold.

A second class of nonlinear acoustical systems that exhibit inherent strong nonlinearity and
gives rise to TET concerns phononic lattices of simple configuration (i.e. composed of linear
components), which are ‘transformed’ to nonlinear sonic vacua by strong geometric/kinematic
nonlinearities. As the simplest example of such a lattice one considers a dissipation-less, in-plane
lattice of N — 2 particles of identical mass m connected by linear springs with elastic constants k
(unstretched at the horizontal equilibrium), and having fixed boundary conditions (cf. figure 7).