Laplace’s subjective ignorance (his ‘principle of indifference’), and work with objective symmetries
of entangled states. The key to the derivation of probabilities are the proofs: (i) that the phases of
Schmidt coefficients do not matter (this amounts to decoherence, but is established without the
reduced density matrix and partial trace, the usual Born’s Rule-dependent tools of decoherence
theory); and (ii) that equal amplitudes imply equal probabilities. Both proofs [3,17,41,42] are based
on entanglement-assisted invariance (or envariance). This symmetry allows one to show that certain
(Bell state-like) entangled states of the whole imply equal probabilities for local states. This is done
using symmetry and certainty as basic ingredients. In particular, one relies on the ability to undo
the effect of local transformations (such as a ‘swap’) by acting on another part of the composite
system, so that the pre-existing state of the whole is recovered with certainty. Using envariance,
one can even show that an amplitude of 0 necessarily implies a probability of 0 (i-e. impossibility)
of the corresponding outcome. One can also prove additivity of probabilities [42] using a modest
assumption—the fact that the probabilities of an event and its complement sum up to 1.

FAQ 8: Why are the probabilities of two local states in a Bell-like entangled state equal? Is the invariance
under relabelling of the states the key to the proof?

Envariance is needed precisely because relabelling is not enough. For instance, states can
have intrinsic properties that they ‘carry’ with them even when they get relabelled. Thus, a
superposition of ground and excited states |g) + |e) is invariant under relabelling, but this does not
change the fact that the energy of the ground state |g) is less than the energy of the excited state |e).
So there may be intrinsic properties of quantum states (such as energy) that ‘trump’ relabelling,
and it is a priori possible that probability is like energy in this respect. This is where envariance
saves the day. To see this, consider a Schmidt decomposition of an entagled state |Q)|<>) + |@)|&),
