
* A direct treatment of this kind can be accepted as applicable and adequate only so long as the main
transfer of heat through the gas complex is by convection, i.e., while the gas density is increasing through
propellant combustion, conduction effects in the gas being of secondary importance only. The time
durations at issue are at most of the order of 0-1 sec. and can be so low as 0-002 sec., while the gas density
variations during the times range from 0 to some 0-25 gms./em.3.

After maximum pressure, i.e., in effect after the propellant has been completely converted into gas, the
gas density remains constant, and convection ceases. A modified set of circumstances consequently arises,
since there is then heat conduction through the gas complex, now at constant density, together with heat
conduction through the steel, as previously considered. In these conditions, as is well known, resistance
to flow of heat from the gas hody to the wall surface is very much influenced by the thermal state of the
layer of gas contiguous to the surface, and allowance has to be made for this fact in any general treatment.
From inspection of cooling curves, i.e., pressure-time curves obtained after maximum pressure, it can be
ascertained that heat losses by cooling take place comparatively slowly, the modifying influence of the
intervening gas layer being clearly at work. A phenomenon of this nature is likely to come more and
more into prominence as abstraction of energy by the walls in the form of work, together with convection
effects, cease, as the densities of loading are diminished, and as the propellant sizes are increased, times
being more and more prolonged.

At the densities of loading resorted to, and with the propellant sizes employed, the layer effect modifica-
tion, even if operative during the short interval of the convection phase, has been regarded as negligible.
Support is lent to this moreover in that, for the higher densities of loading, on the values from which most
reliance is placed, the main pressure correction arises from the work term, the heat correction term being
comparatively small. This may be verified using equations (6a) and (68) with 4/t = 0. It may be concluded