increasing importance of high-Sr TTG demands a more prominent role of melting in the presence
of larger amounts of garnet (i.e. deeper, high-pressure melting for a given source composition)
towards the Late Archaean. Possible reasons are a growing crustal thickness with time, or
geodynamic processes that allow melting at increasing depth, e.g. in drips or through some sort
of subduction. This important observation indicates a temporal evolution in the modes of melt
production within the crust and that TTG are not a simple, single type of melt but rather a pool of
rock types with a spectrum of compositions. Any model that includes the chemical composition of
TTG through time thus needs to account for changing conditions of melting of crustal successions,


whether they are buried or subducted. Hence, while this highlights a temporal evolution of melt
chemistry in general, complications may further arise through spatial variations between cratons,
and even within cratons; a fact that is often not accounted for, simply because of the difficulties
in reconstructing spatial relations of TTG in remnants of highly modified Archaean crust.

The geodynamic framework for all of these changes remains equally confusing and
unresolved. One possible scenario for achieving burial of near-surface igneous rock is through
a continuous volcanic overload [63]. A compelling alternative, based on geodynamic modelling,
and which differs from chemistry-based subduction models, is melting of meta-basalt in drips
that consist of negatively buoyant crustal blobs that sink into the mantle [53,64]. The rigid,
non-convecting lithospheric mantle between the crust and convecting asthenospheric mantle
(in post-Archaean time often termed sub-continental or sub-oceanic lithospheric mantle) plays
a fundamental role in these models. Mantle convection can potentially induce horizontal stress :
sufficient to initiate crustal extension or compression [65]. Parameters deemed most favourable :=
in these models include prior, plume-triggered erosion of the lithospheric mantle [66,67] and :3