Of course, these two forms of mimesis are most relevant where they occur together. If we can
isolate a structural origin for some property of a mineral—its functionality, or the way it is formed
or degrades in nature—we might hope to build upon that understanding, modifying the structure
in such a way as to improve or even tune its behaviour. This broad research aim underlies some of
the most exciting work in the modern chemistry and physics of materials, including the research
highlighted in this Theme Issue.

The word ‘mineralomimesis’ itself was first brought to prominence in the chemical literature
by Toschitake Iwamoto, Shin-Ichi Nishikiori and Takafumi Kitazawa in the 1990s. These scientists
pointed out that tetrahedral complexes of d!° metals—in particular Cd(CN)4 units—share a
topology with the tetrahedral SiO, units that make up the silicate minerals [3,4]. This immediately
proved to be a fruitful analogy: inclusion compounds of Cd(CN), and other cyanometallates rival
the silicates themselves in structural variety. In fact, these compounds, with linear Cd—C = N—Cd
chains, mimic specifically the average structure of f-cristobalite, with a linear Si-O—Si linkage
(figure 2a,b). Later, the zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs) were developed, again with
silicates in mind, but this time with more realistically bent links (figure 2c,d) [5]. Again, this
analogy proved immensely profitable, with the subsequent development of ZIF structures
analogous not only to the silicate zeolites but also to amorphous and even liquid silica [6,7].

At the same time, inorganic chemists had been developing new ways of designing
materials with specific framework topologies in mind. In prescient work, Bernard Hoskins
and Richard Robson demonstrated that the diamond topology could be deliberately targeted
using combinations of the same tetrahedral d'° coordination sites and rigid linear or tetrahedral
organic ligands [8,9]. These ideas were further developed by Michael O’Keefe and Omar Yaghi
into the concept of reticular chemistry, which decoupled framework topology from the specific