may be a positive or negative fraction, or may be > 1. If we know that the first
observed line of a series is actually the first member m= 1 for that line and p is
definite. If we assume, for instance, that the first doublet of a principal series has
the same separation as those of the associated series, the question is settled ; or if
such a line has not been observed, then the degree of convergence of the separation of
any P doublet will give its order at once, e.g., the fact that the D lines in Na have
the same separation 17°21 as the sharp series, would show that the D lines are
actually the first members of the series. If these had happened to have been outside
the region of observation, however, and the doublet (3302, 3303) had been the first
observed lines of the P series, their separation (5°50) would have at once shown that
for them m = 2, and again p would be definitely determined. In spectra with no
doublets or triplets, as in the singlet series of He or O, this criterion would not be
available. Recourse might then be had to the fact that in all known cases the first
line of a P series is not very different from the first line calculated from any approxi-
mate formula of the sharp series with sign reversed. It was this consideration which
led RypBerG to postulate a value for ~ > 1 in the principal series of the alkali
metals, In all cases there is nothing to distinguish the order for a diffuse series. If,
therefore, we wish to discuss how the value of » changes from element to element,
Rypsere’s formula can only give an approximation to its fractional part alone. As
soon, however, as a more approximate formula, such as that used in this paper («/7)
or that used by Rirz (#/m*), is applied, » becomes definite at once—e.g., in the
principal series of the alkalies the denominator is (f denoting a fraction)
m+1+f—a]m and not m+f—a/m, for the latter will not reproduce the series within
the limits of observational error, and consequently > 1; in the sharp series pz < 1.
In the sharp series, however, of Group IT. or the Zn group p» > 1, from which it may