pyramidal layer of the Rabbit—the cells remain s8mall to their lowest level. Tn form,
these cells are nsually pyramidal or pyriform, whilst the small irregular, angular cell
is meb with chiefly on the outskirts of this layer where it joins the outer cortical zone.
The apex process of these cells divides and subdivides into a delicate network of fibrils,
those which are deeper seated undergoing the primary division at ome distance from
the cell, those nearer the cortical zone undergoing instant division, s0 that instead of a
single elongated apex process the apex of the cell itself is bifid or horned. A similar
feature pertains to the subjacent layer, the apex process of which may be traced often
into the outer cortical zone ere primary division occurs. Tt therefore appears probable
thab whilsb the greater bulk of nerve-fibre element of the lower four or five layers is
formed by the numerous secondary processes of the nerve-cell,* the outer cortical zone
derives its nervous element chiefly from the apex process of cells of underlying strata.
The fact that the bifurcate or horned cell is met with at the commencement of this
layer in sparse detached clumps has been alluded to above as significant probably of a
rudimentary form of the second layer of higher animals. Now it has been shown that
this latter stratum is also extremely defective and in great part entirely absent in
the cortex of the Sheep ; in the Pig it is also but a shallow belt averaging '093 mm.
deep, increasing in. certain regions to '139 mm., or even *186 mm., whilst in Man its
greatest development is fully '279 mm. in depth. It appears clear, therefore, that the
development of this belt bears an important relation to the position of the animal in
the scale of organisation. The average size of these small pyramids in the Rabbit is
13p long by 9p broad, with a nucleus of 8p in length—the largest do not exceed
17kX12p. This closely approximates to the upper series of the third layer in Man,
which in the ascending frontal gyrus measure 12p X 8p, and in the ascending parietal
gyrus 15p X 11þp.