of higher resistance.
$11. Preliminary trials having given apparently satisfactory results, we proceeded
to make regular series of observations in the manner already deseribed. We had not
gone far before anomalies revealed themselves of such a character as to prove that we
were not yet masters of the method, Tt usually happened that each day's observa-
< tions agreed well together, showing that the sensitiveness was sufficient ; but when
S we came to compare the results obtained on different days unaccountable discrepancies
© became apparent. The firs result of the more severe criticigm to which the arrange-
Z ments were then s8ubjected was to show that sufficient thought had not been given
to the question of insulation. The wire composing the induetion coils, or rather one
© extremity of it, is necessarily ab a high potential, and a very moderate leakage from
2 the coils to the frame, and thence to the disc, might cause great disturbance. Some
Such leakage was in fact detected on application of appropriate tests. Ebonite ingula-
2 tion was accordingly introduced into the snpports of the coils. The battery was care-
2 fully insulated from the ground, as was also the frame carrying the revolving dise, and
Sother precautions were taken which ib is unnecessary here to detail, For the sake
'S 3 of definiteness one point of the 'galvanometer commutator was connected to earth.
E With these improvements tests were satisfied more severe than that, of actual use, and
S theso tests were renewed at intervals during the spinnings.
Z The results however till showed that some defect existed which we had not yet
z succeeded in detecting. It made no appreciable difference which way the dise rotated,
Z but the means of different days' work failed to exhibit the desired accordance. Two
£ months' work had already been spent upon the experiments, and we had begun to
6 despair of a satisfactory is8ue, when it occurred to us that the connexion of the coils
$ for compounding the effective resistance was faulty.