Sf the application of dung and ammonia-salts together to plot 1, the main distinetions
tween the two plots were as follows :—
[= With the ammonia-salts there was a much larger percentage and actual amount of
Zramineous herhbage, very much less leguminous, and also very much less miscellaneous
Sherbage. Referring to individual species, Poa trivialis and Bromus mollis, which were
very great prominence on plot 2, were in greater prominence still with the ammonia.
-8Dactylis glomerata was also in very much larger percentage and amount with than
without the ammonia-salts. The only other grasses in any fair amount with the
Sammonia-salts were Avena flavescens and Holeus lanatus; whereas, without the
Smmonia, besides these two, Alopecurus pratensis, Avena pubescens, A. elatior, and
edgrostis vulgaris, were also in fair quantity. In other words, with the ammonia-salts,
A few individual grasses attained greater prominence, and the rest were more meagrely
epresented than without them. Woe have, in fact, with the ammonia, the constantly
Sgbserved result of increased vegetative luxuriance.
S Leguminous species were, under the influence of the dung and ammonia-salts
<together, almost banished ; Lathyrus pratensis, however, retaining the first place.
Of miscellaneous species, there were in 1862 only four on plot 1 with the ammonia-
Ralts which contributed as much as 1 per cent., whilsb there were five on plot 2 without
them. The percentage of Miscellaneze was, indeed, less than half, and the actual
amount per acre little' more than half, as much with as without the ammonia-salts,
Rumex Acetosd was, on plot 1 as on plot 2, the most prominent, but in only about half
the proportion and amount with the ammonia-salts. The other miscellaneous plants
of moderate prominence on plot 1 were the same as were £0 on plot 2, viz. : Ranunculus
repens and bulbosus, Conopodinim denudatum, Achilles Millefolium, and Plantago
lanceolate ; but each was in considerably less proportion and amount than on plot 2.