tempts to apply this property to the production of a positive photographic paper, (i. e. a
dark ground, on which the action of the light shall impress a bright image,) though oc-
easionally successful, and in one or two instances remarkably s0, have yet not enabled
me to state any precise proportions of ingredients, and mode of applying them, which
shall certainly produce a paper of the required character possessed of any degree of
permanence. In fact, nothing can be more variable and capricious than the results
obtained according to the different intensities of the solutions applied—the qualities
of the paper—the degree of darkening induced on the paper before the application
of the ioduretted solution —the state of the paper as to moisture or dryness, and other
circumstances. Nor will this appear strange when the complicated nature of the
action itself, when analysed as will be explained in the subsequent part of this paper,
is considered. Tt will there be shown that the total effect of a ray of white light on
iodic preparations is in fact the difference of two opposing actions, either of which
is susceptible of being exalted or enfeebled at pleasure by cireumstances under our
command, indeed, in a general way, but difficult to reproduce exactly at our pleasure.
When these opposing actions exactly neutralize each other, the paper is insensible.
When either preponderates, it is positive or negative in its character according to
that of the preponderant action ; nay, it may at one and the sxame moment be po-
sitive to light incident ander certain cireumstances, insensible under others, and ne-
gative under a yet different illumination. In reference to practical applications,
however, I ought to mention that others appear to have met with better snccess than
I have done, perhaps from operating on a larger scale, in which the proportions of
ingredients may be more certainly determined and adhered to. A positive paper of
this nature is actually prepared for sale by Mr. Roperr HuxT of Devonport, specimens
of which he has been $0 obliging as to send me, and which certainly gives results of