in all directions will acquire the crystalline characteristic of having different quali-
ties, as regards thermo-electricity, in different directions.
= 118. The qualitative investigation of the thermo-electric effects of stress, unaccom-
© panied by permanent strain, that is, the elastic thermo-electric effects of stress, would
E] be complete for iron if the thermo-electric effect of a uniform dilatation or condensa-
S tion in all directions had been ascertained. I hope before long to be able to carry
© into effect various plans T have formed with this object in view; but in the mean time
it would be the merest guessing to speculate as to the result.
S 119, The establishment of the crystalline characteristic for the thermo-electric
A effects of stress not equal in all directions, would make it probable that any thermo-
S electric effects which a metal permanently strained by snch a stress can retain after
> the 8tress is removed, must also possess the crystalline characteristic. That this is
'Z really the case I had in fact proved, before performing the decisive experiment, just
= described, regarding the nature of the elastic effect, which was only made a few weeks
2 8ince. The following experiments on the thermo-electric effects of permanent strains
Z in metals were all made more than a year ago.
Z 120. Well-annealed iron wire was rolled in a coil of about twenty turns on a flat
E bar of iron &-inch thick and 2 inches broad. The bar was laid on an anvil, with
þ | little pieces of thicker wire laid upon it to support the iron core and prevent the
YL lower parts of the coil from being pressed: The upper parts of the coil lying on the
E upper flat side of the core were hammered till they were all very much flattened.
Z The coil was then a little loosened and drawn off the bar of iron, and a similar wooden
D core was pushed into it. - The ends of the iron wire were arranged, with the usual
precautions (H 92), in connexion with the electrodes of a galvanometer. A piece of
hot glass (not above the boiling-point of water) was laid along one edge of the coil,