
I was anxious to ascertain whether these phenomena could be produced equally
well by limiting the passage of the current to the lumbar nerves alone. In this view
I wrapped very thin lamina of tin round, two nerves of the frog prepared. in the
manner above described, taking care to roll the lamina round the nerves as close
as _possible to. their points of entrance into the thighs. On passing the current,
precisely. the same phenomena, as those already described are, observable. . The
only difference that. can be distinguished is in the duration of the passage of the
current which is necessary for producing contraction, only in_the. inverse, limb, on
breaking the circuit. This duration. is less in this case than in the preceding expe-
riments. This difference is easily accounted for, by taking into consideration the
diminished resistance of the circuit. in such a disposition, and comparing it with that
of the circuit formed by. the entire frog. Of this fact 1 have been enabled to satisfy
myself completely, by introducing a galyanometer in the two circuits, The difference
between the two currents, the same pile being used, is 80. great that it is impossible
to entertain any doubt upon the subject. Since, then, the current is strongest when
the nerve only is traversed, the phenomena corresponding. to the different periods of
excitability of the nerve oughbt to be obtained in a shorter time. I bardly need say
that, the manner of obtaining these phenomena, described at the commencement of
this memoir, is identical with that which I have mentioned. In effect, the current in
the frog may just as easily be checked or renewed by taking out and replacing the
poles of the. pile in the liquid in which the frog's paws dip, as by joining the two
liquids by means of a metallic arc, and by removing, the communication. Never-
theless it may not be useless to mention an experiment; having reference to this,
which it is as well to be acquainted with. I assume that the frog is prepared in the