THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF THE ELECTRIC CURRENT. 489

ducing contraction. The conclusions which we have drawn are very general : the
excitability of a nerve is modified by the electric current according to its direction; and
when we reflect that the passage of the inverse electric current through the nerve of
an animal deprived of life, prolonged for two or three hours, produces on ceasing a very
violent and persisting contraction, and that when this happens it has re-acquired the
property, which it had lost before, of provoking contraction at the moment the inverse
current begins to be passed, and that finally the passage of the direct current, for a
time relatively very short, entirely destroys the excitability of the nerve, we are led to
believe that the action of the current upon the excitability of the nerve is opposite for op-
< postte directions. This is the point I wished to establish by experiments of measure,
S and I hope that I have satisfactorily demonstrated the fact. I began by measuring
© the contraction with BrzGueT's apparatus, which I bave described. It was important
= to determine and compare the contractions excited by the direct and by the inverse
S currents*, principally taking into account the duration of the passage of the current.
S In all these experiments the same nerve must never be snbmitted to the action of
'Dboth the direct and the inverse currents. My mode of operating is this. I prepare
S the frog in the ordinary manner, and after having divided the pelvis from the rest. of
= the trunk, I separate it into two parts, so that the two limbs remain united by the
= lumbar nerves attached to a portion of spinal marrow. T fix this piece of the spinal
Acord in the vice, and in this manner I am enabled to pass the current in either nerve
> ad libitum. By repeating a great number of experiments, sometimes beginning with
S the direct, at other times with the inverse current, it is not difficult to obtain a table
ZE of numbers which agree with one another as well as could be expected in this kind