'= the Nature of the Force by which Bodies are repelled from the Poles of a Magnet*.”
& The simultaneous exhibition of attraction and repulsion in the case of magnetized
S Iron is the fact on which the idea of the polarity of this substance is founded ; and it
© resvlted from the investigation referred to, that a corresponding duality of action was
.S manifested by bismuth. In those experiments the bismuth was the moveable object
;Z upon which fixed magnets were caused to act, and from the deflection of the bismuth
= its polarity was inferred. But, inasmuch as the action is reciprocal, we ought also to
S obtain evidence of diamagnetic polarity by reversing the conditions of experiment ; by
2 making the magnet the moveable object, and inferring from its deflection the polarity
Ss ofthe mass which produces the deflection. This experiment would be complementary
& to those described in the communication referred to, and existing circumstances
z invested the experiment with a great degree of interest and importance.
= In fact an experiment similar to that here indicated was made by Professor
& W. Wes, previous to my investigation, and the result was such as to satisfy its
= author of the reverse polarity of diamagnetic bodies. I will not here enter into a
L minute description of the instrument and mode of experiment by which this result
S was obtained; for the instrument made use of in the present inquiry being simply a
S refinement of that made use of by M. Wes, its explanation will embrace the
A explanation of his apparatus. For the general comprehension of the criticisms to
which M. Wzper's results have been subjected, it is necessary, however, to remark,
that in his experiments a bismuth bar, within a vertical spiral of copper wire, through
which an electric current was transmitted, was caused to act upon a steel magnet
freely suspended without the spiral. When the two ends of the bar of bismuth were
permitted to act snccessively upon the suspended magnet, a motion of the latter was
observed, which indicated that the bismuth bar was polar, and that its polarity was