different, the observations are equally of little value, (either for drawing cotidal lines,
or for predicting tides, or for any other purpose,) whether any of the observed tides
fall on the day of new or full moon, or do not. If the tides are regular and the ob-
servations good, the common * establighment” may be obtained from the observa-
tions of any one day; although to give much value to this deduction, the tides should
be observed for a fortnight. And if such observations be made for a number of very
distant places, the common *© establishment” does not represent a corresponding fact
at different places. In some places it means the time of high water one day after
the highest tide; in some, the time two days after the hbighest tide; in some, three
days ; for the © age of the tide” is different at different places, and the tide which
corresponds to the new or full moon comes after the new or full moon by one, two,
or three days. Hence, in order that we might compare the tides of distant places
by means of a fact which had the same meaning in all of them, I proposed, in my
former Essay, instead of taking this common Establishment, to take what I then
called the corrected Establishment, namely the mean of all the lunitidal intervals, that
is, of the intervals by which the tide follows the moon's transit. And this corrected
establisghment I nsed in the discussion of the extensive series of obseryations made in
1836. In general, the corrected establishment is about thirty minutes less than the
common establishment. It has been used by Admiral LuTks in his discussion of the
tides of the Pacific. As however the common establishment is still the one familiar
to navigators, and as no material error will result from the use of it, I shall make it
the basis of my remarks on the tides of the Pacific. But it may be useful to bear
in mind what I have aid, that this © establishment” may be deduced from observa-
tions not made at the new or full moon *.
A very simple and convenient way of recording the result of a tide observation on