their stellate canaliculi of various forms, usually of the common ichthyal type; but
sometimes, especially in the lamellz nearest to the canals, showing a disposition to
become elongated in the direction parallel to the axis of the latter. In the hori-
zontal laminz, already described, fig. 157, we find a very curious form of lacuna.
They are very much elongated, being about 45th of an inch in length, and some-
times almost linear, giving off numerous rectangular canaliculi, Not unfrequently
these spring from the lacuna diagonally; those on different sides verging to the
opposite extremities of the lacuna, as is seen in fig. 196, which sketch represents
the appearance of these lacuna as seen under a magnifier of 300 diameters linear.
Those of each layer exhibit a considerable tendency to parallelism of arrangement,
but owing to the extreme thinness of the laminz, the lacunz belonging to two
or three layers may be seen at once, even under a magnifying power of 300, as
shown in fig. 19: and it is a curious fact, that those constituting one layer exhibit a
very considerable tendency to run in the direction of the canaliculi of an adjoining
layer. In fig. 19, a, b and c represent individual lacunz belonging to three of these
parallel series. In addition to the above, each lacuna gives off small vertical cana-
liculi, which penetrate the lamellz, and thus connect the different layers together,
fig. 154. These structures become highly interesting when viewed in connection
with Mr. QuexeTr's instructive attempts to identify the bones of the four classes of
the Vertebrata by means of the variations of their microscopic structure*. In that
memoir Mr. QuexerT considers that this elongated form of lacuna is characteristic
of the Reptilia ; and there is certainly a very striking resemblance between his repre-
sentation of those of the PterodactyleF, the accuracy of which, my own specimens of
the latter confirm, and my fig. 19. We thus find that some of the elementary tissues
of this fish, which on its first discovery was $0 readily mistaken for a reptile, exhibit