
The annexed drawings, Plate LIV., represent a side and end view of the apparatus
used in the experiments. The large lever A was made of malleable iron and was fixed
to the lower cross beam B (fig. 1) by a strong bolt O, which passed through it at B.
At the top end of this bolt a preparation was made to receive the end of the lever,
and by means of the screw-nut at «, the lever A was raised or lowered to suit the
length of the plates to he experimented upon. Upon the. top side of the beam, and
under the gable wall of a building five stories high, were placed two cast-iron columns,
D, D, which retained the beam B in its place and prevented it from rising when the
lever was beavily Joaded during the experiment. The frame FE guided the end of the
leyer and the weight W, and close to the fulerum were placed two wooden standards,

* Several important facts and improvements in the construction of iron ships have been ascertained since my
experiments were made, but I apprehend none of them have tended in the least degree to diminish their
value. Nor have they, to the best of my knowledge, been superseded by others of a more elaborate or more
decisive character. It is true, that a series of interesting and important experiments have been made at the
instance of the Admiralty on the effect of shot upon the sides of iron ships. At s0me of these experiments I
had the honour to be present, and witnessed some curious and unexpected results.

The first series was conducted at the Arsenal, Woolwich, and subsequently others were made at Portsmouth.
Both were important as respects the effect of shot upon wrought-iron plates, with enlarged and diminished
charges of powder and at different velocities, but discouraging as regards the use of iron in the construction of
ships of war. These experiments, however interesting in themselves, do not appear to be conclusive ; and it is
to be hoped that the apparent danger, indicated by the experiments, may yet be overcome, and the superiority
as well as the greater security of the iron ship fully established.