not well adapted to the purpose, since rubian in a state of perfect purity is not pre-
cipitated by sulphuric acid, besides which it is easily decomposed by an excess of
that acid. Neither is it precipitated by any metallic salt, with the exception of basic
acetate of lead, which, from the circumstance of its precipitating also other sub-
stances from the extract, is not applicable to the purpose. It is decomposed by
alkalies and alkaline earths. Even bicarbonate of lime exerts a decomposing effect
on it in conjunction with the oxygen of the atmosphere. These substances must
therefore be discarded in its preparation. Besides its great tendency to decomposi-
tion, there is another circumstance which presents obstacles to almost all attempts
to prepare rubian in a state of purity. There is no investigation of madder which
does not make mention of a substance, which when its solution in water is mixed
with sulphuric or muriatic acid and boiled, gives rise to the formation of a dark
green powder. To this substance, which possesses no bitter taste, and is in fact
devoid of any characteristic property except the one mentioned, I have restricted the
name of xanthine. 'The xanthine of most other chemists is however a mixture of rubian
with this substance, and possesses therefore the bitter taste of the former, while
showing the characteristic behaviour of the latter towards acids. To avoid confusion,
I sball no longer employ the name of xanthine, and T $hall call the substance which
gives the green powder with acids Chlorogenine. Now these two substances, though of
very different nature, behave similarly towards many reagents. If, for instance, basic
acetate of lead be added to a watery extract of madder, according to the method pro-
posed by Berzerius for the preparation of xanthine, and adopted with a slight modi-
fication by Mr. Hiccrn, there is produced a red precipitate, which after being washed
and decomposed with sulphuretted bydrogen or sulphuric acid, gives a Solution con-
