This state is figured by SowERBY, who, mistaking the unripe stroma of the Spheria
for a species of Lycoperdon, gave it the name of Lycoperdon acariforme. It is men-
tioned also in the © English Flora,” where it is suggested that the growth in question is a
species of 7saria parasitical upon the stroma of the Sphzeria. TI have long suspected it
to be an essential part of the Sphearia itself, but it was some time before I was able to
tind specimens in a state favourable for examination. During the last autumn (1856)
some such occurred in the neighbourhood of Tunbridge Wells, which enabled me to
verify my previous suspicions. The stroma of Spharia fragiformis is covered in its early
stage with a veil of dense cellular tissue of a rusty brick-red colour, which disappears as
the Spheeria ripens. If a specimen be taken covered with its veil and accompanied by
the snupposed Isaria, and a very thin vertical section be made passing through the stroma,
the veil, and one of the Isariz, it will be seen, on examining it with a sufficient magni-
fying power (about 200 diameters), that the threads which form the Isaria are in fact
the outlying portions or ragged edge of the mass of cellular tisxue which constitutes the
veil. In fig. 18 (4, 6), some of these threads are drawn as they appeared under a mag-
nifying power of 415 diameters; these are barren, and have nothing remarkable in their
structure. Fig. 18 (c) shows some fertile threads similarly magnified, which it will be
een produce at their s1ummit small heads of minute cellules arranged something in the
- manner of the spores of a Botrytis, and which must be considered as a conidioid form of
fruit of Spheria fragiformis. These cellules are elliptical, colourless, and very minute.

6. Spheria salicina, PERS., and Contothecium Amentacearum, Corpa.—The latter
Fungus is exceedingly common upon the branches of Willows. It appears to the naked
eye in the form of small, round or irregular patches of black powder, which leave a s00ty
mark upon the fingers when touched: The microscope shows that these patches are