always occurring, thus rendering the human female susceptible of impregnation at
all times. The final solution of these questions, together with that of the problem
concerning the length of time that the ovule retains its faculty of being fecundated
after it has quitted the ovary, is of great interest to the physiologist, the obstetric
physician, and the medical jurist; for it would not only enable them to pronounce
with certainty at what time conception usually takes place, but it would also furnish
a starting-point for the determination of other equally important problems, viz. the
ordinary, and the most extended periods of human gestation. It must, however, be
evident that a great number of independent observations have yet to be made, before
any hypothesis relating to this part of the subject can take its place amongst the
well-recognised doctrines of science ; and, believing that each observation must have
some weight and value, I have been led to record the results of my own inquiries,
in order that they may be placed in juxtaposition with the facts already elicited
by more able investigators. Here, perhaps, I may be allowed to remark, that in
addition to the experiments and obseryations 80 admirably reviewed by Drs. Bay
and Kinkes in their Supplement to the second volume of Professor MULLeR's Physio-
logy, two cases have been published, in which the phenomena witnessed are in many
respects very similar to those noticed by myself. In one of these cases, the girl died
Shortly after menstruation ; and the reporter, M. JaxzsR, states that, in making an
examination of her body, he found on the surface of the left ovary a dark red spot,
which had a fissure in its centre. Judging from all the circumstances of the case,
JaxzER was led to conclude that the spot in question was a recently ruptured Graafian
follicle gorged with blood. He instituted a diligent search for the liberated ovule,
but he failed to discover it, The second case is recorded by M. LocarsuiiÞ; and
