membrane closely invests the viscera, and is in contact with the mantle, leaving
defined blood-channels or lacunes. In both cases the space cireumscribed by this
membrane opens externally, and in both cases, too, it receives the products of the
genitalia on their passage outwards. Much more might be urged in confirmation of
this view ; but it is not intended, on the present occasion, to enter upon the details of
this branch of the subject. Indeed my knowledge of the anatomy of the Ascidie is too
limited to permit me to do 80 satisfactorily. I can therefore only hope that Mr. HuxLey
= will shortly publish his researches bearing upon this matter, for assuredly no one is
Shbetter prepared than he is to discuss it, as no one has a more extended knowledge of
2the morphology of the Mollusca, and a more complete and accurate acquaintance with the
=anatomy of the Ascidic.
= Taking it for granted, then, that the atrium and the perivisceral chamber are homo-
Slogous, the question arises, what light does this fact throw upon the function of the
Slatter? In the Ascidie, the atrium communicating freely with the swrrounding element
Zmight be considered as a sort, of rudimentary water-system, by those who believe in the
Zexistence of 8uch a system. Its function, however, seems to be that of excretion.
2 That portion of it denominated the cloaca is for the outlet of the branchial currents, and
Sat the same time for the discharge of the fzeces, and of the ova or spermatozoa, according
to the sex of the individual. But the other portion must have some special office to
= perform ; and as its walls are washed by the blood, it would seem probable that it is for
2 carrying out of the system the deleterious or effete nitrogenous matters. At the same
Z time it seems not unlikely that this extension of the atrium may be to facilitate the
EZ discharge of the redundant fluid, which having entered the blood, is supposed to per-
E vade the tissues of these animals. 'Thus the atrium may be viewed as performing the
i two great functions of a renal apparatus.