- too brief to allow of the production of soils by decomposition, and where consequently
Who burnt clays of a red colour mark the boundary lines between successive lavas. If,
however, a great interval occurs before a fresh current takes the same direction, other
Zeauses may come into play to obliterate the superficial roughness of the exterior of an
Zolder stream. Thus, for example, showers of comminuted scoriz drifted by the wind,
-Espreading ugually over wider areas than lavas, may fill up hollows; floods of water
charged with sand may do the same; the action of the sun, rain, frost, and vegetation
*Scausing the disintegration of rocks, may combine to make the successive planes of stra-
-Ztification more even and parallel than at first, though it is true that in most of these
_— the red or burnt tuffs would betray the lines of separation.
S [Highly inclined stony lava of modern date in the Cava Secca near Zafarana.

E As the fact of lava being converted into a continuous stony mass when it cools on
*Szteep slopes will perhaps be aid, even if admitted, to be the exception, it will be
Edesirable to multiply examples in order to show that it is in truth the rule. By refer-
*Zonce to S. vox WALTERSHAUSEN'S Map, Plate L., the reader will see the position of a
=narrow valley, about 300 feet or more deep, called the Caya Secca, about a mile W.N.W.
Eof Zafarana. The lavas, scoriz, and tuffs intersected by this ravine, are many of them
among the oldest exposed to view on Mount Etna, and are inclined to the S.E., as are
Zthose in the neighbouring valley of S. Giacomo. Near the lower termination of the
Erovine, at the point @ on the annexed Map, Plate L., on a steep slope above the right
Zbank of the torrent, a comparatively modern laya is seen, which has descended, 8nbse-
quently to the excavation of the whole valley, s0 as to overflow the edges of the older
strata, which are inclined in quite a different direction. 'The side wall of this modern
current has been undermined and partially remoyed by aqueous erosion, just as it has