
Beyond this absorption of the more refrangible rays, another and more remarkable
phenomenon presents itself when the swn descends towards the horizon and $hines
through a rapidly increasing depth of air. Certain lines which before were little
if at all visible, become black and well-defined, and dark bands appear even in what
were formerly the most luminous parts of the spectrum. This has been observed both
at sunrise and sunset ; and it is not necessary that the luminary should be just on the
horizon, or that the absorption of the more refrangible rays should be very complete ;
indeed these atmospheric lines have been seen when H and þ were easily distinguishable,
and light was perceptible far beyond. Fig. 7 is a map of these lines and bands, com-
piled from the independent drawings of the two authors, which agree very closely. In
calling them © atmospheric,” nothing more is meant to be expressed by the term than
the mere fact that these lines or bands become much more visible as the sun's rays pass
through an increasing amount of atmosphere. Sir Davip BrewsreR first observed them.
and gave a verbal description of them in the paper already referred to*, but his more
exact and extended observations were made subsequently. In the least refrangible part
of the spectrum which was first observed by him, the bands X'3, Y 1, Y 3, and Z1 become
very dark as the sun sets, and assume the appearance of broad black bands, supporting
on each side the finer lines Y and Z. A becomes very wide even when the sun is at a
considerable altitude, its aspect being that represented in fig. 8, which is on the same
Scale as fig. 3; and gradually the lighter portions on each side of the black line become
quite dark, and the series of lines before it are converted into a dark band, 80 that it
presents the appearance of two black spaces divided by a narrow luminous space; but as
the sun sets this light also disappears, and it becomes one uniform expanse of darkness.
'The group & becomes much deeper in shade, but not uniformly s0, for the bright spaces