especially where the specula were of considerable thickness.. 'To explaim this, it-is only
necessary to remark that, when metal enters the damp-sand mould, heat will be-nnme-
diately abstracted from it; and as it rises in the mould by each snccessive- addition: of
hot metal, it will s0mewhat dry the upper sand-surface- before: the metal 'reaches it.
When, therefore, the mould is full, the lower surface will be. cooler than the upper?
this does not happen when the mould is dry. In casting very: thin specula, there is nos
time for successive actions; the upper and lower surfaces glidify smultaneously, and
there is a tendency to separation- in an intermediate plane. In some cases the separa-
tion was 80 complete, that a slight concussion actually divided the speculums into two
discs. In discs of brass there is often, from the same- cause, a very thin plane of porous
metal running through the centre ; and where this occurs in the plate: of an air-pump,
a bouching is inserted to cut. off the communication: betweew: the external air and the
central aperture. Keeping these facts in view, it would be naturally expected that by
employing very open sand, as damp as possible, for the lower surface of the- mould, and
dry sand for the remainder, the best results would be obtained: and such was the case;
and where other means are not at hand, specula of 10 or 12 inches diameter can thus
be easily obtained, provided they are of considerable thickness.. This device, however,
was not snccessful when we endeayoured to procure thin plates to face the compound
speculum described in the ©'Transactions” for 1840 ; the solidification of the upper and
lower surface was too nearly simultaneous, and therefore there was irregular contraction :
consequently a metallic surface was employed, from which the plate was remoyed the
moment it was solid.

There is yet another method of procuring excellent specula of moderate dimensions,
which was dismissed, perhaps, in too 8ummary a manner in the account of experiments