the straight fibre. 'The spiral fibre eventually takes a course in the compound nerye-
trunk to which the fibres may be traced, the very oppoxsite of that taken by the straight
fibre; so that, although the two fibres run parallel to each other for some distance from
the ganglion-cell, as STANNIUS observed was the case in the bipolar cells of the calf, it
is certain that, at least in many instances, they at length pass in opposite directions
(fig. 1). KorumeR thinks that * by far the greater part, perhaps all,” of the fibres from
the ganglion-cells of the spinal nerves pass in a ©* peripheral direction;” but I believe this
statement is erroneous, both as regards the existence of but one fibre, and its course.
I have neyer been able to find any ganglion, large or small, the fibres of which passed
in but one direction. Even when a ganglion consists of only three or four cells, compound
Fibres pass from it in different directions. T doubt if a nerve-cell anywhere exists whose
fibres pass to their destination in the same direction. In connexion with this question
I may revert to the fact T haye already stated *, that whenever any compound nerve-
trunk, large or s8mall, composed of any form or number of nerye-fibres in any part of
the organigm of man or animals, passes into another trunk running at, or nearly at,
right angles to it, its component fibres divide into branches which pass in opposite direc-
tions. This general fact is most important; and I have never seen anything to make
me believe that the disposition is not universal, and therefore essential even to the
simplest nervous apparatus. As the disposition exists in bundles of fibres which there
is reason to believe are purely sensitive, as well as in the case of those which are purely
motor, it looks as if fibres invariably passed in two directions, whether they be traced
from their peripheral distribution or from their central origin. The arrangement spoken
of is represented in fig. 40, which is from the submucous areolar tissue of the palate of
the frog.
