
There is, however, no difficulty in proving that many of the pear-shaped ganglion-cells
in the frog are connected with dark-bordered fibres. T.have traced a dark-bordered fibre
into the ganglion-cell, at the lower part of which it is sometimes convoluted in such a
way that its actual connexion with the substance of the cell is not demonstrable. An
example of this is represented in fig. 26, It will be asked in this case if the dark-
bordered fibre exhibits an axis-cylinder quite up to the ganglion-cell. I have s8een a
distinct and very fine axis-cylinder, in the case of some old cells in the ganglia on the

A posterior roots of the nerves in the frog, within three thousandths of an inch of the gan-
JD glion-cell ; but nearer to the cell the s0-called axis-cylinder seems not to be distinct from
S the material of which the white substance is composed, as I have shown to be the cage
& in all dark-bordered fibres near their distribution. In fact the distinction of a fibre into
& white substance and axis-cylinder is only to be demonstrated in nerve-fibres which have
'® been developed for a very considerable period of time; and wherever this distinction is
& obgerved, we may be sure that the nerve-fibre is of considerable age.
= As a general rule the straight fibre is thicker than the spiral fibres, and there is no
ie difficulty in obtaining specimens in which the dark-bordered fibre can be traced on as
5 the straight fibre of the ganglion-cell. The spiral fibres are often very fine, and are con-
-2 nected together here and there. Sometimes several unite to form one very fine fibre,
E which can be followed for some distance upon, and very close to, the outer part of a
5 5 wide dark-bordered fibre. But I have many specimens in which both straight and spiral
Z fibres are exceedingly thin and of equal diameter, others in which the straight is much
Z thicker than the spiral fibre, and a few in which the diameter of the spiral fibre or fibres
E is even greater than that of the straight fibre.