of the higher hills. The two series bear nevertheless a definite relation one to the
other. They both consist of debris derived from rocks in the valleys through which
the present rivers or their tributaries flow, and they both occasionally contain organic
remains, of which the greater number of species are common to the two. Both series
may be considered as * valley-gravels;” but for the sake of distinction I purpose calling
that which occupies the bottom of the valleys, and reaches to a comparatively small
height above the river-leyel, the © low-level valley-gravels,” whilst to that found on the
adjacent hills, I would apply the term * high-level valley-gravels.” The height of the
latter above the valley is variable; and though generally limited to one main platform,
it is not always on the same level, and there are cases of minor intermediate terraces
between the extreme levels. The heights are of course relative one to the other, and
not directly to the sea-level.
Valley of the Waveney.—The levels recorded in my former paper establish the fact
that the flint-implement-bearing deposit of Hoxne is at a height of 40 feet above the
Gold Stream, and 50 feet above the Waveney, of which the Gold Stream is a tributary.
Mr. Evaxs and I found a very similar deposit, also overlying the Boulder Clay, at Athe-
lington, a few miles higher up the valley of the former stream. In following the course
of the Waveney, from above Diss to the sea at Lowestoft, terraces of gravel are found at
distant intervals on the adjacent hills. They never extend far from the valley, and the
intermediate higher but flat ground between the river-yalleys invariably presents bare
tracts of Boulder Clay. It is particularly between Diss and Harleston that these terrace-
gravels are best exposed, and where I have determined with some care their extent and
development (Plate V. fig. 3). I have found them on the right bank of the Waveney,
at Stutston Common, Oakley, and Shotford Heath, lying upon the Boulder Clay ; and
on the left bank at Scole, Billingford, Thorpe Abbots, and Needham. Thence to the sea