be regarded as continuous with the circular fibres of the bladder, are the corresponding
fibres of the urethra (Plate IIl. fig. 9, m, n). The various gets of fibres In the vesical
parietes are elaborately interlaced, the most external or auperficial ones being connected
directly and indirectly with the slightly oblique external, the Slightly oblique external
with the oblique external, and the oblique external with the very oblique or central fibres.
The very oblique internal fibres, on the other hand, are connected with the oblique internal,
these in their turn being connected with the slightly oblique internal, and the lightly
oblique internal with the longitudinal or vertical internal. In some instances the longi-
tudinal external are connected directly with the longitudinal internal, and 0 of the slightly
oblique, oblique, and very oblique external and internal fibres. 'The bladder, urethra, and
prostate are bilaterally symmetrical, and the fibres composing them pursue something like
seven directions, the fibres crossing with remarkable precision at wider and wider vertical
angles as the centre of either is reached, as in the stomach and heart *, In fact the
fibres of the bladder, stomach, and heart have a strictly analogous arrangement, and I am
inclined to believe that functionally also they possess points of resemblance. Very similar
remarks may be made regarding the structure and functions of the uterus.

From a careful examination of a large number of mammalian bladders, I am of opi-
nion that fundamentally the fibres are arranged in two principal directions, viz. vertically
or longitudinally (Plate IV. fig. 34 & 36, s), and transversely or circularly (mz). In the
primary or typical bladder the vertical fibres, particularly in the undistended condition,
are grouped together, and form ridges which are raised considerably above the level of
the transverse fibres. The ridges, two in number, run from the urethra anteriorly to
the urachus and urethra posteriorly, and from side to side. 'The former bisects the
bladder in an antero-posterior direction, the other laterally. As the urachus naturally