The Lines and Planes of a Cubic Surface ; Facultative Lines ; Explanation of Diagrams.
Article Nos. 20 to 23.

20. In the general snrface T=12, we have 27 lines and 45 triple-tangent planes, or
sy simply, planes: through each line pass 5 planes, in each plane lie 3 lines. For the
surfaces II to XXI (the present considerations do not of course apply to the Scrolls)
several of the lines come to coincide with each other, and several of the planes also
come to coincide with each other; but the number of the lines is always reckoned as 27,
and that of the planes as 45. If we attend to the distinet lines and the distinct planes,
each line has a multiplicity, and the sum of these is=27 ; and 80 each plane has a mul-
tiplicity, and the sum of these is=45. Again, attending to a particular line in a par-
ticular plane, the line has a frequency 1, 2, or 3, that is, it represents 1, 2, or 3 of the 3
: lines in the plane (this is in fact the distinction of a scrolar, torsal, or oscular line) ; and
s1milarly, the plane has a frequeney 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5, according to the number which it
represents of the 5 planes through the line. It requires only a little consideration to
perceive that the multiplicity of the plane into its frequency in regard to the line is equal
to the multiplicity of the line into its frequency in regard to the plane. Observe, further,
that if M be the multiplicity of the plane, then, considering it in regard to the lines con-
tained therein, we get the products (M, M, M), (2M, M), or 3M, according as the three
lines are or are not distinct, but that the sum of the products is always=3M, and that in
regard to all the planes the total sum is 3x 45, =135. And 80 if WM be the multipli-
city of the line, then, considering it in regard to the planes which pass through it, we get
the products (M, M', M', M', M'), (2M, MW', M', M') . . . (5M'), as the case may be, but
that the sum of the products is =5M', and that in regard to all the lines the sum is
5X27, =135, as before.