11. 4 Ninth Memoir on Quantics. By Professor CavLey, F.R.S.
Received April 7,—Read May 19, 1870.

Ir was shown not long ago by Professor GorDay that the number of the irreducible
covariants of a binary quantic of any order is finite (se his memoir © Beyeis dass jede
Covariante und Invariante einer biniren Form eine ganze Function mit numerischen
Coefficienten einer endlichen Anzahl solcher Formen ist,” Crelle, t. 69 (1869), Memoir
dated 8 June 1868), and in particular that for a binary quintic the number of irreducible
covariants (including the quintic and the invariants) is =23, and that for a binary sextic
the number is =26. From the theory given in my © Second Memoir on Quantics,”
Phil. Trans. 1856, T derived the conclusion, which, as it now appears, was erroneous, that
for a binary quintic the number of irreducible covariants was infinite. 'The theory
requires, m fact, a modification, by reason that, certain linear relations, which I had
asxumed to be independent, are really not independent, but, on the contrary, linearly
connected together: the interconnexion in question does not occur in regard to the
quadric, cubic, or quartic; and for these cases respectively the theory is true as it stands ;
for the quintic the interconnexion first preents itself in regard to the degree 8 in the
coefficients and order 14 in the yariables, viz. the theory gives correctly the number of
coyariants of any degree not exceeding 7, and also those of the degree 8 and order less
than 14; but for the order 14 the theory as it stands gives a non-existent irreducible
covariant (@, . .Y(@, y)'%, viz. we have, according to the theory, 5=(10—6)+1, that is,
of the form in question there are 10 composite covariants connected by 6 syzygies, and
therefore equivalent to 10 —6, =4 asyzygetic covariants; but the number of asyzygetic
coyariants being =5, there is left, according to the theory, 1 irreducible covariant of the
form in question. The fact is that the 6 s8yzygies being interconnected and equivalent