former is represented by c and the latter by d. The drawing shows the gradual
© increase of size in the vessels of the ligneous zone as we proceed from within outwards.
BAt 'd' we find the very 8mall vessels from amongst which the radiating exogenous
Series originates; and we now find that large and well-defined- bundles of vessels (5)
£ spring from the same series, but which curye rapidly outwards 80 as to proceed hori-
S zontally, and at right angles to their original course, to the periphery of the ligneous
zone. These vessels are yery small, not averaging more than 0006 in diameter ; but as
.© considerable numbers of them are aggregated to form each bundle, the latter attains
Sto conspicuous dimensions. That they are identical in character with those already
DE noticed as observed in the young leaflets I have no doubt ; but it is also obyious that the
EZ bundles have now become very much enlarged, though no corresponding enlargement
# has taken place in the individual vessels. This increase in the 8ize of the bundles is
E explained by the fact, that whilst in the specimen represented in Plate XLI. fig. 1 the
Elargest leaflets are not more than 055 in diameter, in that under consideration (Plate
EXLII.L fig. 9) they have expanded to more than double that size, or *12. Medullary rays
© also now make their appearance in the ligneous zone ; but as I propose to describe these
S more fully when speaking of the matured stem, I will not dwell upon them now. The
S greater part of the bark has disappeared from this specimen ; all the inner parenchy-
Amatous layer is gone, and most of the prosenchymatous one. All that remains consists
of the parenchymatous subepiderm with its leaf-petioles (Plate XLII. fig. 9, 7), and-with
a 8mall portion of the prosenchyma of the outer layer, 7, attached to its inner surface.
In the transyerse section the cells of the latter have now begun to assume the radiating
linear position which I described in my last memoir as 80 commonly characterizing this
tissue amongst the Lepidodendroid plants.
The specimen last described has obviously been a stem or branch, with a diameter of