Smost portion of which is usually more or less differentiated into a reproductive layer in
Svhich the successive exogenous zones are developed. I have got some magnificent speci-
Anens of bark which show that the two outer layers, viz. the subepidermal parenchyma and
he prosenchymatous one, but especially the latter, increased in thickness through a meri-
Stem action which from time to time developed an abundance of new cells along the line
Bf separation between the two tissues, and which process is illustrated by the curious
"Zpecimens of bark described and figured in my second memoir (Phil. Trans. 1871, p. 220,
Plate XxXx1. figs. 94 & 57). The growth of these two outer layers being thus apparently
Acecounted for, we have further to ascertain the corresponding process in the history of
-Fhe inner parenchyma. That it also increases enormously in thickness with the increased
Age of the stem is quite certain; but though Thave examined it in numerous specimens,
A have wholly failed to detect any trustworthy traces of a diffused cell-fission or meristem
Sprocess acting simultaneously throughout the entire substance of the layer. Such facts as
A have observed scem to me to render it more probable that the new cell-divisions have
<taken place near its inner surface, and that, whilst these divisions were ultimately
nstrumental in adding to the thickness of the vascular ligneous zone on their inner
ide, they also increased the diameter of the parenchymatous bark-layer to which they
Sbelonged in the opposite direction. If this idea proves to be correct, it will follow that
this meristem action of the innermost bark ends in the production of two kinds of
rmanent tise—an inner vascular one, belonging to the vascular axis, and an outer
Qcellular one, "belonging to the true bark.

These meristem processes have evidently taken place interruptedly. 'There seem
to have been periods of intense activity alternating with periods of rest. The latter
state is illustrated by specimens of Stigmaria in my cabinet like that represented in