Sappear in any marked form, if at all, save as a scar, on the exterior of the plant. No such tubercular provision
"was made for the very numerous leaf-bundles, and we have abounding proofs that the tubercles had nothing
Sto do with the ordinary branches of the plant. It appears to me that nothing remains with which we can
AQassociate them but strobili, and with these T believe them to have been connected, Eyery new fact that we
discoyer appears to me to bring the two genera Halonia and Ulodendron into nearer relationship than has hitherto
been recognized. I have very little doubt that the Zalonice were young branches sustaining rows of cones :
after the cones fell off, they would leave permanent cicatricule impressed upon the bark, and which would
enlarge as the stems increased in magnitude, the latter process being probably accompanied by the development
of an exogenous zone around the medullary cylinder. Specimens of these old and matured fruiting stems
may exist among what we have hitherto termed Ulodendra. This explanation would give us the reason why we
noyer find cones or other appendages of a magnitude corresponding with the cicatricula of Ulodendron. The
chief argument against the idea that the cicatriculw of Ulodendron may be those of Zalonic enlarged by age
and growth, lies in the fact that the leaf-scars of Ulodendron do not appear to hayo undergone any corresponding
enlargement, —April 15, 1872,


226 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON ON THE ORGANIZATION

invariably find that they proceed from the inner surface of the outer or ligneous cylinder,
and not from the larger vessels of the medullary one, and it is in the same radiating
cylinder that we find the medullary rays*. I have already stated my reasons for insisting
upon the recognition of the medullary character of these rays, and pointed out the
necessity for considering their primary origin in the nascent structure, prior to any
material differentiation occurring in its tissues, if we are to arrive at a philosophical
opinion respecting their nature. All these circumstances combined lead me to the con-