from Hordwell entirely resembled the Zyopotamus. But the metacarpals and meta-
tarsals of the Hordwell animal proved very different from any thing found at Hempstead
or in Puy; they were considerably larger, and their shape was altogether different ; the
section was much more round, and the inferior or distal ends proportionately thicker.
At first T could not find any plausible reason why the animal from Hordwell, being 80
similar to the Zyopotamnus in all the long bones of the skeleton, should present this
very striking difference in the shape of the metacarpals and metatarsals. But gradually,
as T grew more familiar with all the peculiarities of these bones, and after having com-
pared them with a large series of metacarpals and metatarsals of extinct and living
Paridigitata, it became quite clear that the animal from Hordwell, although so similar
in all its long bones with the yopotamus from Puy and Hempstead, differed widely
from this genus in having only two metacarpals and metatarsals, and not four—being in
fact didactyle, like the Anoplotherium. As we have never yet found at Hordwell a
complete fore or hind foot in its natural connexion, T was very cautious in drawing my
inferences from scattered and mostly broken bones; but the study of the relat ions of
the carpal and metacarpal, and especially tarsal and metatarsal bones, gave altogether
the same result ; indeed there was no possible doubt that the animal from Hordwell
could not have more than two complete digits to its fore and hind foot. Unfortunately
1 conld not find any teeth belonging to the new animal whose almost entire skeleton was
before me. The only authority who has noticed Zyopotamus teeth from a deposit in
Hampshire is Professor P. Gervars. In his © Palcontologie Frangaise, while speaking
of Hyopotanus (p. 191), he tells us of having met Hyopotamus teeth, similar to those
described by Professor Owns, in the collection of BowERBANK ; © they came from a fresh-
water stratum in Hampshire.” As the bed in which the bones of the new didactyle
animal were found at Hordwell has really an outcrop in the New Forest, I suspect that