'The method of ascertaining whether this sense is lodged in the eye-specks was, of
course, extremely simple. Choosing a dozen of the most vigorous specimens, I removed
all the eye-specks from nine, and placed these together with the three unmutilated ones
in another belljar. After a few minutes the mutilated animals recovered from their
neryous shock, and began to swim about with tolerable vigour. I now darkened the
room, and threw the concentrated beam of light into the water as before. 'The differ-
ence in the behaviour of the mutilated and of the unmutilated specimens was very

to have occupied with regard to this matter from that which ventured upon bold assertions as to the specific
function of these organs. Now, forasmuch as the above paragraph in the text was written without reference
to Prof. Harcxer's work, I should here like to add the remark that, in my opinion, his deductions concerning
this matter differ from those of previous writers in the important particular that they were warranted by the
facts of structure which he observed. Granting that he had satisfied himself as to the neryous character of
the tissue he describes, and the peculiarly significant distribution of this tissue in the marginal vesicles which
he figures appears to me certainly to justify his conclusion that * was die Deutung der Randk6rperchen nach
Feststellung dieses complicirteren Baucs anlangt, s0 wird zuniichst ihre allgemein giiltige Stellung als Sinnes-
organe dadurch nur befestigt.” And it is of course needless to say that with the next 8ncceeding s8entences I
fully concur, * Was aber die speciellere Feststellung der Sinnesqualitit betrifft, 80 scheint mir diese dadurch
nach keiner Richtung hin bestimmter bezeichnet zu werden. Im Gegentheil glaube ich, dass damit nur dic
wesentliche Differenz dieser Randblischen yon anderen ihnlichen Sinnesorganen niederer Thiere, z. B. yon den
meist zuniichst damit verglichenen GehGrblischen der Wiirmer und Mollusken, noch mehr bestiitigt und aus-
driicklich hervorgchoben wird. . . . . Noch weniger freilich als die von den meisten Autoren angenommene
Dentung der Randblischen unserer Medusen als Geh6rorgane kann die yon Agas81z und Farrz Motren yertre-
tene Ansicht befriedigen, dass dieselben Augen seien. . . . . Alle diese Verhiiltnisse 8ind mit der Deutung der
Coneretivn als * Linse” und des sie umschliessenden Sinnesganglion als * Schnery * durchaus unyereinbar.”