actually be resolved into a unit of hydrogen and two units of the (as yet) unknown ele-
ment x. The argument is just, but the presumption thus raised is excessively slight ;
for we are able to make (on any hypothesis) 80 very small a proportion of the vast
number of chemical substances, the possble existence of which is similarly indicated to
us, that we have no expectation, capable of being estimated, of making any one snbstance
in particular. In short, the thing is possible ; but on these grounds alone we cannot,
expect to be able to do it. The second argument is of far greater weight. It may be
put thus:—All persons would admit the validity of our conclusions if, having first
detected the element x, thus latent in its compounds, we were able to verify our hypo-
thesis by digging it out. x having been discovered, there would be but little doubt as
to the existence of w and »y. We have not got quite to this point, but nevertheless we
arenot 80 very far from it ; for we can show clearly that the application of the very same
formal principles of reasoning to existing facts would have enabled us similarly to detect,
prior to their isolation, the latent existence in their compounds of elements which have
actually been isolated*.

Were we able to conduct, our chemical experiments only between certain fixed limits
of temperature (let us say between 0” and 300* C.), a barrier would be placed upon our
researches. We might still conduct innumerable experiments, but the science which
resulted from them would be eentially different to our present chemistry. Between
these limits of temperature the appearance of the element carbon in any system of
chemical transformations is a rare phenomenon indeed; and it is by no means difficult
to place ourselves, by an effort of imagination, in the position of chemists who should
have a very varied and extensive knowledge of the chemical properties of the compounds
of carbon, and yet be totally unaware of the existence of that element. Let us imagine,