further than such slight exhaustion of the ganglion as the above results imply*.

$ 2. Naked-eyed Medus#.—(a) It would be impossible to imagine movements, on the
part of s0 simple an organism, more indicative of physiological harmony than are
the movements of Sarsia. One may watch several hundreds of these animals while they
are swimming about in the same bell-jar, and neyer perceive, as in the coyered-eyed

® In this description I haye everywhere adopted the current phraseology with regard to ganglionic action—-
a phraseotogy which embodies the theory of ganglia supplying interrupted stimulation. But although I have
done this for the 8ake of clearness, of course it will be 8een that the facts harmonize equally well with the
theory of continuous stimulation which I am evgaged in working out, but the publication of which is for the
present postponed. (See, for an outline of the new theory, the abstract of this paper in the Proc. R, $. yol. xxv.)
Indeed tho fact last mentioned in the text would agree with the new better than with the old theory of gan- [1
glionic action ; for my other experiments on the deganglionated tissues of Aurelia prove hoy difficult these
tissues are to exhanst, Hence if tho natural rhythm in the case of tho above-mentioned experiments is due
to the contractile, as distinguished from the ganglionie, element, we should expect the period of quiescence I
between ceasation of the faradaic 8timulus and the renewal of spontaneity to be short ; because this interval,
according to the new theory, is the expression of the time required for the contractile tissue to recover exhans-
tion sufficiently to enable the ganglionic stimulation—which had become less than minimal in relation to the
Aliminished excitability of the contractile tisxue—to become minimal, I may also ztate that, according to the
new theory, the reason why a contractile wave is reinforeed while passing a lithoeyst is probably the same as
that to which all reflex action is by that theory 8upposed to be due, yiz. the molecular disturbance in an afferent
nerve being of the nature of a vibration, and the continnous somewhat Tess than minimal stimulation supplied
by the ganglion being als of the nature of a vibration, if the wave-rates in these two vibrations are supposed
8ynchronows, when the afferent disturbance reaches the ganglion the amplitude of the ganglionic vibrations