Were the individual molecules solely acted on by the initial impulse from the negative
pole, they would take a direction accurately normal to the surface repelling them, and
would start with their full velocity. But the molecules, being all negatively elec-
trified, exert, mutual repulsion, and therefore diverge laterally. The negative pole,
likewise, not only gives an initial impulse to the molecules, but it also continues to act
on them by repulsion, the result being that the molecules move with an accelerating
velocity the further they get from the pole. The lateral divergence of the molecules,
owing to their negative electricity, will naturally increase with the amount of charge
they carry; the greater the number of collisions the more the molecules lose negative
charge, and the less divergent the stream becomes. This hypothesis is borne out by
facts. When the vacuum is just good enough to allow the shadow to be seen, it is
very faint (owing to few molecular rays), but is quite sharp (owing to the divergence
of the molecules laterally). The variation in mutual repulsion is shown by the fact
that the focus projected from a concave pole falls beyond the centre of curyature, and
varies in position with the exhaustion, being longer at high than at low exhaustions.

589. Awning that the phosphorescence is due, either directly or indirectly, to the
impact of the molecules on the phosphorescent surface, it is reasonable to suppose that
a certain velocity is required to produce the effect. Within the dark space, ab a
moderate exhaustion, the velocity does nob accumulate to a gufficient extent to produce
phosphorescence ; but at higher exhaustions the mean free path is long enough to
allow the molecules to get up speed sufficient to cause phosphorescence. At a very high
exhaustion the phosphorescence takes place nearer the negative pole than at lower
exhaustions ; this I consider results from the initial velocity of the molecules being
sufficient, to produce phosphorescence, their greater speed being due to the fewer