of his cells with the algebraical sum of the separate differences of potential ab the
various surfaces of separation, which was the tes of the accuracy of his theory, is 80
striking, and 80 much greater than polarisation, &c., usually allows one to obtain in
experiments of snch delicacy, thab one cannot help feeling doubtful regarding his
conclusions ; secondly, his apparatus did not allow of his experimenting with two
liquids in contact, consequently he could not legitimately draw any conclusion in this
latter case. And although Konirausca had made gome few experiments on the dif-
forence of potentials of liquids in contact, still, 8ince he employed moist blotting-paper
surfaces instead of the surfaces of the liquids themselves, we felt, for this reason if for
no other, that his results did not carry the convietion the distinguished position of the
experimenter might have led us to anticipate.

In fact, the inability of all experimenters to measure directly and accurately with
their apparatus the contact difference of potentials of a solid and a liquid, and especially
of two liquids, caused the whole theory of voltaic action to remain in a vague and
incomplete state. It therefore appeared to us, in 1875, desirable to design an appa-
ratus and carry out a series of experiments on this subjecb ; and the results obtained
during the following year will be found in our papers Nos. I. and II. (Proc. Roy.' Soc.,
No. 186, 1878), Our method consisted in measuring directly the difference of poten-
tials in volts ab each separate contact of dissimilar substances in the ordinary galvanic
cells, and then ascertaining whether the algebraical sum of all the contact differences of
potential was or was not equal to the electro-motive force of the particular cell in
question. The result obtained was that, within the limits of experiment, if AB,f BC,
CD, &c., were separately measured (any one or more of the 8ubstances being solid or
liquid), then if any number A, B, C, D.... K were joined together, and the electro-