cancers in the dataset are suppressed by the same number of and small intestine adenocarcinomas define the three cancers
‘hits’. Given the mix of sarcomas and carcinomas, it is very with M = 7 (points 29-31). (ii) The comparison of FAP-induced
unlikely that M is constant [23]. As a result, it is not possible familial and non-familial cases of colorectal and duodenal cancer
to get a statistical fit of the data to the model defined by show the expected result that M is reduced by one (from 7 to 6
equation (3.1) unless there is an a priori reason to group particu- and 6 to 5, respectively). FAP (familial adenomatous polyposis)
lar cancers by value of M; however, there are no reliable data is typically dominant, resulting from the effects of a single
that would allow us to do that grouping (note that a more jus- defective copy of the APC gene, so it represents a single inher-
tifiable tissue-based grouping was adopted by Noble ef al. ited mutational hit. (iii) The lungs appear to be protected by
[32]). Instead, we estimated a value of M for each cancer type only three mutational steps, an estimate driven by the very
using equation (3.1), an approach that uses all of the available slow rate of stem-cell division and it is consistent for smokers
data. In addition, to fit the equation we needed to assume that and non-smokers, even though smokers presumably experience
the same somatic mutation rate underpins each mutational hit a higher somatic mutation rate that was not taken into account
and assign it some value. In fact, a range of values was assigned (see below). A similar effect is apparent in comparing Lynch
by establishing the values of u that maintained 7 >M >3 syndrome colorectal cancer with the non-familial form (M = 7
across all of the cancers. The lower limit on M was based on for both), even though Lynch syndrome causes a higher somatic
Nunney’s [9,20] proposal that M > 3 (except for retinoblastoma mutation rate. (iv) The rate of somatic mutation (1) consistent
which has M = 2), noting that M = 3 was likely to be adequate with 7 > M >3 is quite high at approximately 8 x 10° per
for small tissues with minimal post-growth division, while daughter cell. For example, it is substantially higher than the
the results of Armitage & Doll [8] suggested an upper limit estimate of 4 x 10°” that accurately predicts the frequency of
of M = 7. This is broadly consistent with the recently proposed retinoblastoma [33], and that value is consistent with estimates
range of 8 > M > 2 [2] given the probable restriction of M = 2 of human somatic mutation rates of just under 10~° per base per
to one or very few paediatric cancers. The range of u satisfying cell division [34].

these criteria (with values of M rounded to the nearest integer) There are at least three factors that are likely to contribute
was surprisingly narrow: 7.5 x 107° to 8.9 x 10° oncogenic to an elevated estimate of the somatic mutation rate that