we can observe that how contraceptives are operationalized proxy for the decision mechanisms that underlie its adoption.
probably influences inferences about their effect on fertility It is also debated whether access to new methods is a purely
[32]. In San Borja and rural Poland, where we used age at con- exogenous factor in fertility transitions. Governments tend to
traceptive uptake, a later age at adoption of contraception is initiate family planning programmes non-randomly and may
associated with higher fertility. In Matlab, we operationalized tailor their programme to areas where people have high num-
this as ‘ever using contraceptives’, and found a positive corre- bers of offspring and may be interested in learning ways to
lation with fertility; where women used contraceptives, they reduce their fertility [82,83]. Women who want to reduce
had higher fertility (this effect was replicated in San Borja in their fertility may be more likely to seek out information on
the Poisson model). This seems counter-intuitive, but as contraceptives, making the effect of contraceptives endogen-
demonstrated by other researchers, in contexts of early fertility ous. (For alternative interpretations of information seeking
transition, many women use contraceptives to either space or and social contagion, see [32,84].) Understanding the links
end their reproductive career once they have achieved desired between contraceptive knowledge and use may help us under-
family size and, in fact, women who were ever users of contra- stand what predicts who learns (or is taught) about
ception often ended up with higher completed fertility contraceptives. In the end though, it is the motivation to
[34,79,80]. Use of contraceptives may thus indicate women reduce fertility, not the means by which it is achieved, that is

who already have many children and/or have higher parity of theoretical interest to most evolutionary anthropologists.


There is evidence from our analyses that the effect of edu-
cation on fertility is probably mediated by several different
factors, including local mortality rates (where mortality
varies), husband’s education, wealth, contraceptive use, and
the mean fertility of a woman’s social network. But even
after controlling for these potential pathways, education has