
3. What does this mean for irreversibility? Indeed, one of the most. interesting (and  under-
The assumption of irreversibility does not rest ona firm body of appreciated) elements of the demographic transition is that
theory and the consequences are severe if it is incorrect. But reproductive traits are phenotypes seemingly driven in the
what reasons are there to suspect that fertility might increase? opposite direction of what a simple quantitative genetics
We offer five propositions and one counter-argument. model would predict. For instance, age at first birth is nega-

Proposition 1. All else being equal, selection will act to tively correlated with fitness and is heritable [31,39], which

increase higher fertility variants. means that all else being equal, age at first birth should decline


from one generation to the next. The fact that it is increasing the entire world to two children per women can come without 5 |

while selection is favouring younger first births could indicate energy expenditures. This, in our minds, is a rather strong
that cultural concerns are driving the phenotype in a mal- assumption that is in need of further evaluation. a
adaptive direction, or at least that there are contributors to From a dynamic systems perspective, current low fertility is s
the sources of variance in the trait that push it away from a fit- a fragile, unstable state that requires continued energy input
ness maximizing value. This is a complicated issue, but to maintain [51] (see also [48]). The UN medium projection
assuming that norms and preferences solely dictate reproduc- shows a levelling of the human population that has the look
tive timing means that this exception to selection acting on of a population growing towards its carrying capacity (the
earlier births will persist indefinitely, and it is currently unclear traditional Malthusian or logistic equilibrium). However, car- 2
how long a trait can change in a direction that opposes the rying capacities are stable attractors generated by a reduction ‘=
gradient of selection acting on it. If cultural pressures relax or in per capita resource supplies that drive mortality up and = ©
opportunity costs of children decrease, however, these under- birth rates down until they are equal. In the demographic tran- 5