for fertility to remain at very low levels is certainly not built difficult to keep fertility low. nt
into many population forecasts [45]. Wealth inequality has received increased attention lately
Proposition 3. Failure to meet the resource cost of modern- due to the widely publicized work of Thomas Piketty [52].
ization will lead to fertility increase. Wealth inequality is predicted to continue to increase in the
The global reduction of fertility to a two-child norm (or future. This can affect resource distribution (Proposition 3)
similar) assumes universal adoption of the same preference, and patterns of social transmission (Proposition 2). Education
the ability to spread modernization widely enough to allow is commonly invoked as causally related to fertility decline,
populations to achieve that preference, and that the heritability but of course resources are required to build schools and
of fertility declines to zero. It also assumes that resource supply supply them with knowledge to transmit. Students probably
rates can remain sufficiently high to pay the cost of moderniz- need to perceive a benefit to education, but if socio-ecological
ation required to achieve a two-child norm (or lower) globally. conditions plummet too far they may be less likely to follow
As noted by Lee [1], economic and/or resource constraints are the route to low fertility through increased education. Quality
rarely included in forecasts in spite of the inescapable fact that of education also matters [26], which is at least partially con-
they must limit population growth in fundamental ways. Fac- nected to infrastructure and resource availability. The
tors of positive and negative feedback have clearly been difficult fact of wealth inequality is that pressure from energy
prevalent in the long history of population growth since the shortages will not be experienced equally across society,
industrial revolution (as a balance of Malthusian and Boseru- which could lead to major reductions in per capita access to
pian processes) [49,50], but the process of growth must be resources for large segments of the population. This is probably
ultimately ‘limited by natural resource constraints’ [1]. true both within and among countries. Wealth inequality, then,
One exception to the lack of attention to the ecological implies a route that could accelerate resource limitation in
side of this problem is work on the relationship between certain contexts.
per capita energy use and vital rates. Population growth rate, Wealth inequality may also interact with cultural trans-
fertility rate, lifespan, infant mortality, and other vital rates mission and social displays. From evolutionary studies of
are all significantly correlated with per capita energy use [37]. cultural transmission, we know that people signal to perceived
Importantly, the development that fosters the demographic audiences and may preferentially imitate individuals at par-