fertility and sibling fertility are indicators of overall fertility in cation influences age at contraceptive knowledge, which in S
rural Poland and Matlab. In San Borja, friends’ fertility tends turn mediates age at use of novel contraceptives. However,  &
to be associated with number of offspring, while sibling ferti- the pathways to reproductive outcomes now differ: age at
lity is not. Sibling fertility may be confounded by culturally modern contraceptive use much more strongly mediates
and genetically heritable aspects of fertility behaviour, along number of births (the effect size is doubled) and more
with ecological similarity, whereas non-kin friend networks weakly mediates age at first birth (the effect size is halved).
are only confounded by ecological similarity (although, in This suggests that while education has a comparable effect
rural Poland, almost half of all network partners were not resi- on the age women are learning about and using different
dent in the same community as ego [6]). Non-kin networks kinds of contraceptives, the age at which modern methods
may therefore provide better evidence for the influence of are first used has a larger effect on reducing births. Different
one’s social network on fertility. In all three sites, friends’ ferti- operationalizations of contraceptive methods are affected by
lity has a similar or larger effect size than sibling fertility, different predictors in this population [32], which further high-
suggesting that social networks play an important role in ferti- lights the fact that contraceptives are used and diffused in a
lity transition. It is possible that people seek out friends with variety of ways, depending on the context.
similar fertility to their own, resulting in a reverse causation Finally, given that the Matlab region has a very effective
problem, but evidence suggests this is not the case. In rural family planning programme, where almost all women are
Poland, friendships usually began well before reproduction taught about contraceptives, the level of knowledge probably
took place, with mean network durations of 23 years [6]. In has little effect on fertility outcomes. This might have been an
Matlab, the social network actually measures the fertility of important variable at the beginning of the family planning
the entire bari, or patrilineal neighbourhood, making reverse programme initiative, but once the community is saturated
causation much less of a problem. Unfortunately, the interpret- with knowledge and access, fertility differences are not
ation of this variable is ambiguous, as the relationships we likely to be driven by contraceptive knowledge but instead
observe between social networks and fertility may be mediated by individual strategies and decisions regarding fertility.
by either social influence or shared ecology. Our analyses do This clearly shows how the diffusion of information is not
not allow us to differentiate between these two mechanisms, equivalent to the diffusion of behaviour [32,81].