— Attempts to institutionalize Indigenous fire management 2

have focused on the use of early dry-season fires at the S

expense of the complex and sometimes continuous burn- . . . w

ing throughout the dry season and in the wet season. /. Meeting discussion =

Cristina Santin (Swansea University, UK): During your presen- 5

We can see from this that Indigenous fire management is tation you emphasized the need to support Indigenous fire
being incorporated into policies through already established practices within government policies. Could you please com- ©
and clearly defined government schemes; disincentivizing, ment on the fact that some of the Indigenous communities
command-and-control methods of firefighting through the nowadays, especially the young generations, are evolving
creation of Indigenous fire brigades, and incentivising approaches towards more Western lifestyles and, therefore, leaving
focused on prescribed early dry-season burning. Our contention behind fire as a traditional tool? Don’t you think that the
is that although firefighting and early prescribed burning are Western ideal of ‘leaving them like they used to be centuries
necessary as part of an overall fire management strategy, there ago’ may contradict, sometimes, their actual wishes of
needs to be enabling policies that focus on legitimizing and moving towards a new type of society?
strengthening Indigenous fire management as a community J.M, B.A.B. and A.B.: It is important to make it clear that
owned solution. Critically, as community owned fire manage- the community owned solutions approach to fire manage-
ment is intricately linked with Indigenous survival strategies, ment does not intrinsically favour fire management like it
so too must firefighting and prescribed burning be grounded ‘used to be centuries ago’ or prevent communities from evol-
in local social—ecological systems. We believe it is necessary to ving their fire management practices. Community owned
define long-term actions to support the integrated functioning solutions is essentially about control: who fundamentally