when it comes to subsistence. For now, this conclusion must
remain based on plausibility, as it is difficult to conduct the
relevant experiments: examining exploration and innovation low levels of independent exploration in the wild, but show
rates by individuals facing extreme scarcity or finding much less neophobia and more exploration in captivity? If
themselves in novel habitats (or both). so, one can reasonably assume that our hominin ancestors

showed similar predispositions too.
A generally more neophobic response to novel foods and
novel objects in the wild compared with captivity is not

4, Orangutans in Zoos and rescue centres restricted to orangutans, but has been reported for many
The same study that examined responses to novelty in wild non-human primates [56,57], a finding recently replicated for
orangutans was repeated with zoo animals using the same spotted hyaenas [58]. In fact, the only species systematically
and very similar sets of novel items [52]. The contrast was strik- benefiting from approaching novel items may be vagrant
ing (figure 1). Zoo orangutans approached novel objects with species (which therefore often encounter novel situations and
the same latency as familiar ones, i.e. within seconds rather items) lacking opportunities to acquire social information, or
than months. Thus, zoo orangutans showed no neophobia. species living in risk-free habitats. Keas (Nestor notabilis), for
Inother work, we attempted to use the same criteria for inno- instance, are parrots living in high mountains in New Zealand
vations as used in the work on wild orangutans [5]. Lehner et al. in a predator-free habitat. They show true neophilia [17].
[55] found that zoo orangutans have far larger innovation reper- Wild chimpanzees are conservative and unwilling to taste
toires in comparison with their wild counterparts, even though novel foods [59], but many readily accept novel food in cap-
they had far fewer generations to assemble them. Rehabilitant tivity [60], as in orangutans. When presented with novel food
orangutans (ex-captives that are being cared for by humans in items, captive chimpanzees were even more hesitant com-
the enriched conditions of rescue centres and are often trained pared with gorillas and orangutans, and more frequently
for release into the wild) are very similar to zoo orangutans in observed their conspecifics handling the novel items [61].