Being less dependent on the length of the developmental change whether using maximum lifespan or brood value, in
period, this metric is also largely independent of body size the next sections we will focus on maximum lifespan to
(electronic supplementary material, figure S1). make the results easier to interpret. Results with brood

Using the brood value metric, we found evidence that value are presented in the electronic supplementary material.

species that prioritize future reproduction tend to be more
innovative (figure 2; electronic supplementary material, table

63), a finding that held for consumer but not technical inno- (c) Brain size as nexus linking innovativeness and life

vations (electronic supplementary material, table $4). This history
latter discrepancy can reflect the fact that the innovation Previous work has identified brain size (corrected for body size)
record is more complete for consumer (1 = 1548) than for tech- as a major predictor of innovative propensity [1,14,15], a result
nical innovations (7 = 1060). Alternatively, the differences may that is confirmed in our analyses (electronic supplementary
reflect different ways of being innovative. Adopting new types material, tables S19 and S20). Because brain size has also been
of food may not require very sophisticated cognitive abilities suggested to enhance lifespan by improving physiological
compared with inventing new feeding techniques. Never- regulation [21,28,38], it remains unclear whether the association
theless, it still requires a combination of traits like neophilia, between innovative propensity and brood value is direct or
discrimination and associative learning, which are also indirectly caused through their common association with
essential for more sophisticated innovations [17]. brain size. As a way to distinguish between these alternatives,
In our dataset, there were relatively few species that attain we explored direct, indirect and common causal relationships
high brood values by having short lifespan and multiple among these traits by means of a phylogenetic path analysis
broods in the same season, and hence brood value largely [35,36]. To control for the allometric effect of body size on
reflected maximum lifespan (electronic supplementary brain size (by which larger species tend to have larger brains),