
PUBLISHING © 2016 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


Though Gamble and co-workers organize their recent mono- the cultural group as a whole will typically include a | 2 |

graph on hominin evolution with separate chapters on smaller number of individuals with broad connections across local
and larger brained hominins, even among large-brained homi- sources, giving each an opportunity to combine ideas and a
nins there are spectacular differences in material culture. There techniques in the right way. S
have been very large-brained hominins for over half a million
years, but the material culture of (for example) Homo heidelber- In all of these routes to innovation, innovation depends on the
gensis was very limited compared to more recent hominins [4,7]. social flow of information, not on unique and unrepeatable
These facts about innovation in hominin history are rel- individual insight. This analysis of the social dimension of
evant, in my view, to the approach to innovation exemplified human innovation depends, of course, on the prior evolution — =
by many of the papers in this issue and of the papers they of cumulative cultural evolution, and the establishment of a‘
review. The strange history of hominin evolution suggests synthesis between extensive cognitive capital, high fidelity ©
that the array of innovations we see in a population at a time, intergenerational transmission and incremental addition  -
and in a lineage through time, is not a simple reflection of to that cognitive capital. Central to this perspective is the =
the adaptive capacities of the individuals in the target popu- intimate connection between innovation and social learning: =
lation. This is the central message of Muthukrishna & innovation improves upon the cognitive capital of the commu- -
Henrich [8]. They offer a radical, distributed cognitive theory nity, and hence depends upon reliable access to that capital. 2
of innovation as the product of ‘collective brains’. Individual The theoretical analysis offered by Muthukrishna and Henrich S
capacities are relevant to innovation and innovation rates, is plausible, and it is supported by connections to historical w
but those capacities depend intimately, and in ways that vary case studies. But there is something of a disconnect between = =~
across cultures, on the ways those agents are embedded and the body of theoretical work on hominin innovation and cul- ©