tower designs, but it was also possible to measure task success
in the shape of tower height. Consistent with the earlier
findings [7], there was no clear difference between these
two conditions in terms of success on the task. In contrast,
the specific design used to seed the chains (one of which

was superior to the other) had a clear effect on the height (d) Insights from theoretical models
of the subsequent towers, common across both of the Theoretical work has suggested that there exists a trade-off
experimental conditions. between the amount of innovation and the level of adaptation
Thus, in both cases, these strategic shifts in the balance depending on the level of environmental stability. In contrast
between social and individual learning have not been associated with the experimental approaches, where the environment
with an obvious advantage to greater innovation. This is despite (the physical or cultural environment to which the considered
the fact that it must be differences in the likelihood of intentional cultural trait becomes adapted) is typically held constant,
innovation, rather than the likelihood of error, which account for mathematical or computational models can manipulate this
the differences between conditions. In addition, it is worth freely. Using this approach, it has been shown that asocial
noting that in both these studies, the conditions exhibiting and social learning are favoured by natural selection when
lower innovation were ones that in reality needlessly con- temporal environmental changes occur in short and long inter-
strained participants’ choices (particularly in [35], in which vals, respectively [8,37—41]. In other words, the faster the
the task was simply framed differently across conditions, and adaptive value of a cultural variant is changing, the more
there was no real difference in the way the efficacy of designs advantageous is the individual learning strategy. As individual
was evaluated). In this context, one might expect that there learning is considered as the innovation mechanism, this result
should be a clear advantage to participants in the conditions also points to the crucial relationship between environmental
that simply emphasized maximizing height, without needing stability and the amount of innovation/cultural variation that
to consider trade-offs with probable stability. However, bearing is needed to adapt to those changing conditions. Innovations
in mind that social learning is critical to the retention of advan- (in particular adaptive innovations) provide the basis for