(similar to the number of continents), a significant increase where global diversity was low (figure 3). In such cases, iso-
in diversity is observed as a result of continental drift. This lation of continents gave rise to endemicity that could not be
is because in the extreme case of low speciation rate, after a sustained in a well-mixed system of the same total size.
sufficiently long period of time, a fragmented set of conti- Increasing dispersal in such a system reduces the scope for
nents necessarily maintains a separate species in each, species to coexist as endemics alongside competing species
whereas a single supercontinent would only contain one from other continents that have the dispersal ability to
species. As the speciation rate decreases still further, the invade. Our results were generally extremely robust to
system ultimately converges to a state where there is still changes in parameters; this goes some way to justifying the
only one global species, because the speciation event bringing application of neutral theory because it suggests that a
it into existence is pushed back to a time when the continents system with multiple different guilds each with their own
were still connected. While these scenarios are not realistic for parameters would still produce the same results, both for
species, they could be appropriate for higher taxa. Moreover, individual guilds and for the sum behaviour of a large
despite the fact that named higher taxa are relatively arbitrary number of such guilds together.
taxonomic units, they are the units used for most studies of For large metacommunity size and relatively high specia-
the fossil record, meaning that the increase in richness tion rate, the only scenario leading to a change in species
observed is mirrored to some extent in the fossil record. In richness as Pangaea split was when speciation is associated

mammals, supra-orders are associated with different with migration. This effectively represents lineages


(a) (b)
4 e 4 10000 4 " .
e 6 a r) ° eo.
6000 + ’ . ’ . é |
g 4