existing information. In other cases, uncertainty can only be First was to restore the ecological role of oysters by creating
addressed through the collection of new information. For a self-recruiting population that would build reefs compar-
example, Ulrich et al. [73] reported detecting DNA of able to those that once existed extensively throughout the
H. nelsoni, the agent of MSX disease in C. virginica, in bay. Second was to revitalize the nearly extinct oyster fishery.
samples that had been collected from the Gulf of Mexico. Pre- Third was to develop a viable aquaculture industry through
viously, H. nelsoni had been reported only from the Atlantic the introduction of a fast growing oyster that could reach
coast of North America, never in the Gulf of Mexico, so this market size in much less than a year to make oyster aquacul-
report created uncertainty about potential movements of ture viable. The proposal met much resistance and an
shellfish, even shellfish gametes, from the Atlantic to the intensive decade long study was conducted to evaluate the
Gulf coasts of North America. Subsequently, an extensive multitude of concerns [76]. Two primary concerns were the
survey was unable to confirm the presence of H. nelsoni in potential for introducing a non-native pathogen and the sus-
the Gulf of Mexico [74]. This example points to the need ceptibility of C. ariakensis to known native pathogens. Neither
for diligent surveillance. In fact, basic distribution data are turned out to be major concerns, but a surprise was the dis-
incomplete for many pathogens and this can lead to contro- covery of a novel oyster pathogen during experiments
versial policies with some entities denying that a pathogen is conducted in North Carolina [38]. Ultimately, the introduc-
present simply due to inadequate surveillance. Inadequate tion was denied, but the data collected were extremely
distributional data can affect both import and export of valuable and provided a model for the level of investigation

host species. necessary to reduce uncertainty for such bold proposals.


The paradox of uncertainty in shellfish disease management of-the-art’ technologies perform to standards required for El

is that management errors have two general outcomes: increas- disease detection, surveillance and management.
