action between ‘faunas’ can drive groups to extinction. Thus, although the most recent analysis suggests that marine diver-

even though the Cambrian and Palaeozoic Faunas have fixed sity steadily increased from the Jurassic to the present [38].
carrying capacities in Sepkoski’s model, interaction with each Interestingly, in the marine realm Stanley [7] was unable to
other and the Modern Fauna leaves them with realized diver- find a solution to a coupled logistic equation that adequately
sities that are far below their equilibrium values. Thus, describes the observed genus-level diversity curve when the
similar to Quental & Marshall’s [14] analysis of individual genera are grouped according to Sepkoski’s three Faunas.
mammalian clades, realized diversity trajectories need not be However, in his analysis, there is typically increased diversifi-

fixed nor fully determined by their intrinsic dynamics. Carry- cation rates at the genus level after mass extinctions ([7], fig. 22),
ing capacities might not only expand with time (e.g. in and the overall trend across the entire Phanerozoic is one of

Sepkoski’s’ model [4], if you take into account the fact that decreasing rates of diversification. While these both point to

some of the most diverse clades in the Modern Fauna had the presence of a carrying capacity, Stanley also points out
later times of origin than the Fauna itself), but also shrink. that in the recovery from extinction events, the rates at the
Sepkoski’s work (figure 1) also raises a series of related short timescales do not decrease. Thus, the genus-level fossil
questions of how we measure carrying capacities, and what record shows signatures of both limits to diversification, as
,
are the mechanisms that drive changes in carrying capacities. well as of an expanding carrying capacity.

First, are the patterns, and therefore the underlying mechan-
isms, seen for higher taxa good proxies for what happens at

the species level? Second, Sepkoski’s model is constructed 2. The im portance of ident ifyi ng the ‘correct’