aspects of its behaviour and biology. However, this success genetic roots in the early splitting of groups from the ‘X-ooA’
was not sustained. It is here that the palaeogenomic evidence ancestral population, leading to the establishment of a popu-
provides unique insights—the Altai Neanderthal is the only lation ancestral to Australo-Papuans, one ancestral to the
case so far in which the children from a human-Neanderthal people of Western Asia, and one ancestral to all other groups,
sexual encounter were brought up as Neanderthals, which divided relatively quickly into one population that
suggesting that, by that stage, the populations of early MIS gave rise to Western Eurasians and another to Eastern
5 Eurasian modern humans were small and outcompeted. Eurasians [19,20,22,23]. The genomes of fossils such as Ust’

Ishim, in Russia [18], indicate that other groups formed at
this time who left no living descendants. However, the geo-

(0) Dispersals, 70-50 ka, MIS 4-3 graphical expression of this process is unclear at the moment.
A very large proportion of living people, both in Africa and The fact that the above groups acquired a genetic identity at
outside the continent, share a common ancestor estimated to this time points to sufficient allopatry for inter-group gene

have lived at the end of MIS 5 or during the early phases of flow to be restricted. Nevertheless, the archaeological record


shows, consistently across multiple regions, that the Eurasian The archaeological record of the last glacial period in 6 |

regional structure that persists to the present was only Africa shows the major change from the MSA to the LSA
established at the end of this period. throughout the continent. Only a handful of fossils, widely a
What is known about African populations at this time separated geographically and temporally, are known from s
suggests different regional trajectories, consistent with this time [58]. Among these, a 36.2 ka South African fossil a
observed environmental differences [98]. In southern Africa, shows no close relationship to recent African groups, but = 2-