an evolutionary path marked by key long-term trends, pelvis is much smaller than the similar-age KNM-ER 3228,
including perfection of bipedality, decrease in tooth size, which is usually attributed to Homo; an argument that they rep-
increase in brain size, advances in lithic technology and the resent the same species would imply a gorilla-like level of
transition to a hunting lifestyle [55,56]. sexual size-dimorphism in the early Homo pelvis [69]. Inferred
The current consensus on lineage diversity in Homo pelvic inlet shape is distinct from that of the Gona H. erectus
around 2.0-1.7 Ma is less a product of new discoveries pelvis [30], which itself is more humanlike (circular) than
than an outgrowth of these conceptual and methodological fossil pelves typically assigned to early Homo (i.e. KNM-ER
shifts in the field. After all, the major pieces of fossil evidence 3228, OH 28). This mixed pattern of affinities in the hip and
have been with us for at least four decades. Although the thigh of early Homo mirrors the morphological differentiation
contrast between KNM-ER 1470 and the smaller-brained within a derived Homo-like phylogenetic context conveyed by
KNM-ER 1813 (discovered in 1972 and 1973, respectively) the skulls of this group. It may be difficult to read adaptive
has played an outsized role in how diversity in early Homo differentiation from these fragmentary remains, but they none-
is perceived, the fact that significant discontinuities in time theless underscore the likelihood that a single major adaptive
or geography could be discounted as explanations for the transformation in body form did not accompany a ‘transition’
differences between these Koobi Fora crania meant that from Australopithecus to Homo.
hypotheses invoking sexual dimorphism or other sources of Although Spoor ef al.’s [6] new range of estimates for the

intraspecific variation could be tested explicitly by reference endocranial volume of OH 7 (729-824 ml) suggests that, in


Figure 4. The partial occipital bone KNM-ER 2598 from the upper Burgi Member of the Koobi Fora Formation (a, posterior view; 0, left lateral view). Thick bone =~
(seen in cross section), a well-developed occipital torus (especially centrally), and the low position of the internal occipital protuberance relative to inion affiliate this = =
specimen with the Homo erectus morphological pattern [61]. The widely divergent limbs of the lambdodial suture are also characteristic of many African and Asian = =
H. erectus crania. Photos courtesy of Fred Spoor (scale bar, 1 cm). (Online version in colour.)
