a true ecologically mediated event? The issue is not that there cha nge in the Cambrian

is an incompatibility between, for example, adaptive radi- Although correlation of the lower part of the Cambrian remains
ations and the pattern presented here, but rather that there controversial [49,50], the advent of relatively high-precision
is a selective effect biased towards the survival of rapid radia- chemostratigraphy and improved biostratigraphic information
tors. Within an event such as the Cambrian explosion, where has yielded a somewhat clearer picture of the diversifica-
it seems likely that rapid evolution was ongoing, some taxa tion that took place in basal Cambrian times (figure 5) [53].
even so radiated slowly; but the most rapid radiators would Rather surprisingly to the non-specialist, the basal parts of the
be most likely to survive: the establishment of a standing diver- Cambrian show rather sparse diversity, dominated by an
sity is essential for clade longevity, and once generated is likely assemblage of tubes (of uncertain affinities), notably Anabarites,
to be robust [43] to at least stochastic variation. This will mean and a moderately diverse trace fossil assemblage. Other very
that extant taxa are a biased sample of evolutionary rates basal fossils include the protoconodont Protohertzina, sponge
within radiations, without denying the fact that radiations do spicules and rather modern-looking ctenophores [54]. From
in fact exist. A comparative approach between radiations of very close to the Ediacaran—Cambrian boundary comes a
different ages (e.g. those of mammals or angiosperms) might recently described sclerite [55] that shows distinct similarities
also be of interest to investigate if age of surviving (i.e. crown to those associated with ecdysozoans such as priapulids (a

group) origins varies through time: one prediction might be basal Cambrian scalidophoran body fossil, Eopriapulites, has


Figure 6. Representative early Cambrian (spiralian?) fossils, with the oldest at the top. (a—c) ‘Tube world’ fossils appearing before about 536 Ma. (a) The pro-
toconodont (total-group chaetognath) Prothertzina unguliformis, Kuanchuanpu Formation, China. (b) Anabarites tristichus, Siberia. (c) Anabarites hexasulcatus,
Siberia. (d—f) ‘Sclerite world’ fossil lophotrochozoans (presumably total group molluscs) from about 536 Ma onwards. (d) Barskovia hemisimmetrica, Tajmyr,
Siberia. (e) Anabarella plana, Bol’shaya Kuonamka, Siberia. (f) Purella antiqua, Bol’shaya Kuonamka, Siberia. (g) A ‘brachiopod world’ representative, Tumuldaria
incomperta, a very early paterinid brachiopod from the Pestrotsvet Formation of Siberia [61]. Scale bars, (a,d) 200 jum, (b) 500 jum, (c) 300 jum, (e) 2 mm,