
of historical selection and adaptation, has also recently been protozoan pathogen. A pattern of differential expression in
discovered in mussels [42]. relation to the infecting pathogen emerges in these studies. a

Polymorphisms can be maintained by a number of different Nevertheless, such studies at least give a first insight into how s
processes, most importantly, by balancing selection. In their re- these interactions develop with a defined infection. a
analysis of AMPs from various species of Drosophila, Unckless AMPs are expensive for organisms to produce. Early work = 2-
& Lazzaro [39], indeed, find the telltale signs of balancing selec- in leaf-cutting ants [58] showed that closing the metapleural S
tion. If this were a general pattern, then this result would open glands (where AMPs are manufactured) reduces the basal =
up new avenues of research and pose the important question metabolic rate by 20%. In Drosophila, infection by Mycobacterium =
under which ecological conditions a particular variant of the leads to a wasting process, i.e. a loss of metabolic stores, as “=
same AMP becomes favourable and when the selection metabolic genes are suppressed and AMPs are upregulated ©
regime would turn itself against a frequent allele. In fact, balan- [59,60]. Similarly, a transcriptomic [54] and a proteomic study = >
cing selection implies an evolutionary dynamic that unfolds [7] in the mealworm beetle Tenebrio molitor found a correlated = =
over short time scales, pushing back and forth the frequency suppression of metabolic genes during expression of AMPs. If =
of different alleles in the population—with the longer-term synergism among AMPs is common, then this also might be -
effect of maintaining several alleles in a population over time. selected to save costs. This is because synergisms between 2
Pathogens, with their rapid rate of adaptation to changes in AMPS should allow reduction of the total amount of AMPs S
the host population, would be prime candidates to create to be produced and hence reduce the associated costs. Another w
sucha selection regime. Selection resulting from the interactions potential cost is competition for essential amino acids between =~
of the immune system with mutualistic microbes also likely different physiological functions in the context of a resources ©
plays a role here. Such interactions are arguably more frequent based trade-off. Adding protein to the diet increases resistance 3
than encounters with parasites and, therefore, could even be the to infection and upregulates the constitutive immune response
most important selective force. in caterpillars of Spodoptera literalis: infected individuals
