characterization of hemolin horseshoe structure

2001
H. pylori cecropin

Figure 4. Schematic of the main findings by Boman and co-workers (orange boxes), others (blue boxes), or a combination of both (blue and orange boxes). The
bomanin family was recently discovered and named in honour of Boman [53].

an example, LPS was originally used in the discovery of DIF fast-growing microbes, multicellular organisms use to some
and was subsequently found to be the ligand for human extent similar recognition receptors and in particular signall-
Toll-like receptor 4. The original assumption was, however, ing pathways. These activate and control a variety of genes
that the Drosophila Toll pathway should be specifically behind effector mechanisms and molecules directed against
activated by Gram-positive bacteria and fungi, neither produ- the intruder. The fact that innate immunity and its link to the
cing LPS. The belief that LPS was a stimulant of Drosophila adaptive counterpart became common knowledge is to a large
humoral immunity was plausibly also supported by its extent contributed by research in insects. One key to Boman’s
interaction with hemolin. In cell line experiments, varying success as a leading figure was his conviction that selecting
effects were regularly observed with LPS that often derived important unresolved issues drives science forward and renders
from fairly crude preparations. It was not until after the finding discoveries that can change an established paradigm. Several
of the PGRPs for Toll and Imd pathways that peptidoglycans years into his 70s, he still determinedly shared this experience
and not LPS were found to be the bacterial PAMPs in Drosophila through teaching theoretical research methodology. His courses
[65]. The authors strongly demonstrated that LPS, even at Karolinska institutet were popular and well attended by stu-
commercial and proclaimed pure, contained peptidoglycan dents in Biomedical Research. Boman also cared for a creative
contaminants, which could explain earlier findings. surrounding in his department and was always engaged

in both the technical and the artistic design of offices and