Topi use termite mounds as a vantage point to signal terri- (C. Packer 2016, personal observation).
toriality (e.g. [69]) or carry out mating displays [70] and our When viewed on the extent of the entire landscape, large-
data clearly support a strong association between topi and ter- bodied species and migrants tend to use and move across the
mite mounds [71]. However, our model also supports the use entire landscape while avoiding areas of low-standing biomass,
of areas of high termite mound density by impala and ele- such as areas of low NDVI, high termite mound density or
phants and the avoidance of these same areas by hartebeest recent fire. By contrast, smaller herbivores, such as the semi-
(figure 3). In Lake Mburo National Park, Uganda, both grazing migrant Thomson’s gazelle and resident hartebeest, use a
and browsing herbivores used termitaria as preferential series of smaller, high-quality patches that are likely to offer

feed sites over sites without termite mounds [38]. In Kruger high forage quality and improved visibility of plains predators


such as cheetahs and wild dogs ([50,54]; figure 6). In fact, when switching), we expect to see variation in the interaction | 12 |

the landscape occurrence probabilities of grazers are viewed as network diagram (figure 4) over the years.

frequency distributions (electronic supplementary material, What has been more convincing is evidence that the a
figure S2), three distinct groups appear: mobile mega-herbivores elimination of large-bodied herbivores leads to complex and s
(buffalo); large-bodied migrants (zebra and wildebeest) and sometimes unpredictable trophic cascades in savannahs a
small-bodied (Thomson’s gazelle) or resident species (topi and [4,76]. Notably, members of the large mammalian herbivore — >
hartebeest). This suggests that, at the scale of this landscape community appear to lack functional redundancy [77], S
(approx. 1100 km’), body size is also linked to movement pat- suggesting that losing individual species will have unique =
terns within the study area with larger species covering greater and largely unpredictable effects on communities, capable =
fractions of the landscape relative to smaller species. of cascading from large mammals, to rodents, snakes and ‘S
