designations make few efforts to segment the diversity of com- to land management, area culture, amenity migration, locals’
munities that fit in either category. Our goal in this paper is to perceptions about wildfire and trust between stakeholders a
outline recent conceptual and methodological advances for can all influence drastically different collective responses to s
characterizing the diversity of WUI or peri-urban communities wildfire risk [28-30]. Recognition of the ways in which local a
in the USA and to explain how such efforts should be incorpor- context influence response to wildfire expand and borrow — 2:
ated in policy or planning related to progress on addressing the from larger discourses on community adaptation to hazards = S
wildfire problem. We also suggest that while details will differ, or climate change using meta-concepts such as resilience,
this general approach has great potential to be useful for under- vulnerability, adaptive capacity, collaborative governance =.
standing how local social diversity and historical context and pyrogeography [20,31,32]. While it is beyond the scope ‘2
influence the need for unique approaches to fire management. of this article to review the full breadth of that literature,a ©
Increasing suppression efforts, however locally important key point is that wildfire risk has critical local elements that = -5
in the short term, are clearly not the one, overarching solution will be important—and variable—when implementing any =
to the wildfire problem. In fact, there is fairly broad scientific policies, programmes or larger efforts to adapt to wildfire. =
consensus that decades of increased fire suppression in many The concept of ‘fire adapted’, which has long been used by -
regions of the world also influence the growing size and ecologists in reference to certain plant associations, is now 2
impact of wildfires [13,14]. This is due in part to a build-up being applied to human communities in the WUI as a means S
of fuels in some forest types which are fire adapted but burn to advance management of fire as a coupled social and ecologi- w
with increased severity when fire is less frequent than has cal system [33,34]. The moniker of ‘fire-adapted communities’ =~
been historically the case [15,16]. It also is exacerbated by (FACs) organizes disparate programmes and the broader ©
climate change [17]. Likewise, the ever-increasing focus on goal of fostering local community or individual response for 3
simulating potential wildfire risk to prioritize resources and fire mitigation under a new and more comprehensive banner.
suppression efforts in areas of potential catastrophic loss The idea is to foster the ability of WUI communities to with-
from wildfires are useful, but incomplete [7,18,19]. Such efforts stand the effects of a fire igniting in a wildland area and
often do not directly address what may be the most dynamic burning in the vicinity of such a settlement. While all the attri-
and variable facet influencing the wildfire problem—historic butes of an FAC have yet to be fully defined, the root idea is that