wildfire problem. We also suggest that while details will differ, or climate change using meta-concepts such as resilience,
this general approach has great potential to be useful for under- vulnerability, adaptive capacity, collaborative governance =.
standing how local social diversity and historical context and pyrogeography [20,31,32]. While it is beyond the scope ‘2
influence the need for unique approaches to fire management. of this article to review the full breadth of that literature,a ©
Increasing suppression efforts, however locally important key point is that wildfire risk has critical local elements that = -5
in the short term, are clearly not the one, overarching solution will be important—and variable—when implementing any =
to the wildfire problem. In fact, there is fairly broad scientific policies, programmes or larger efforts to adapt to wildfire. =
consensus that decades of increased fire suppression in many The concept of ‘fire adapted’, which has long been used by -
regions of the world also influence the growing size and ecologists in reference to certain plant associations, is now 2
impact of wildfires [13,14]. This is due in part to a build-up being applied to human communities in the WUI as a means S
of fuels in some forest types which are fire adapted but burn to advance management of fire as a coupled social and ecologi- w
with increased severity when fire is less frequent than has cal system [33,34]. The moniker of ‘fire-adapted communities’ =~
been historically the case [15,16]. It also is exacerbated by (FACs) organizes disparate programmes and the broader ©
climate change [17]. Likewise, the ever-increasing focus on goal of fostering local community or individual response for 3
simulating potential wildfire risk to prioritize resources and fire mitigation under a new and more comprehensive banner.
suppression efforts in areas of potential catastrophic loss The idea is to foster the ability of WUI communities to with-
from wildfires are useful, but incomplete [7,18,19]. Such efforts stand the effects of a fire igniting in a wildland area and
often do not directly address what may be the most dynamic burning in the vicinity of such a settlement. While all the attri-
and variable facet influencing the wildfire problem—historic butes of an FAC have yet to be fully defined, the root idea is that
and ongoing human behaviours, including collective action fire will be experienced in such a settlement as a more-or-less
among at-risk populations that could help significantly routine event that does not require much outside mitigation
alleviate the suppression burden of public agencies. or suppression effort rather than a significant disturbance.
Increasing wildfire risks are driven significantly by the Related benefits of promoting FACs are reduced needs for
relationships (or couplings) between social and biophysical fire suppression and reintegration of periodic fires as a healthy
systems [4,20,21]. It is widely recognized that human develop- component of landscapes that regulate ecosystem processes.