fect, we still have very little data on how management above, for both Yallop et al. [99] and Douglas et al. [18], the 2:
practices vary across the UK and again need to realize that subsequent reporting in the media from associated press S
the issue in question is not as simple as burnt/unburnt but releases unfortunately did not focus on the strengths of =
rather how ecosystem changes scale across variation in fire their research findings. Instead, the press releases used the =
regimes (i.e. frequency, extent, intensity, severity, seasonality papers as an opportunity to make tangential and provocative “2
and variability in these) and the fire cycle. inferences about associated issues. The almost hysterical ©
Finally, Brown et al. [17] rightly point out that much of headlines of some news items were particularly striking = -
our knowledge comes from a single long-term experimental (table 1). The tone of many of these articles was staunchly =
study site (the Hard Hill burning/grazing experiment in anti-burning and focused on purported negative impacts of =
Cumbria, UK), but then they seek to suggest (again on the fire, even if this bore little relationship to the studies’ actual -
basis of an unpublished RSPB report) that the results from focus. Many media articles concerning managed burning 2
that location are not generalizable as the fires are ‘extremely appear to be highly biased. For example, in the case of S
controlled’; despite the fact that the use of controlled fire is Pearce [115], the focus, C losses as a result of burning, was w
precisely the aim of prescribed burning. As far as we are not measured in the work reported by the scientific paper =~
aware, no data have actually been published on prescribed on which it was reporting [99], and the quotes and &
burning practices at Hard Hill or the behaviour of the fires narrative it contained were highly speculative. In the case 3
burnt there. Furthermore, the inference that at all other sites of Doward [16], the news item appeared to suggest that research
fire conditions are not ‘extremely controlled’ would perhaps conflicting with the main anti-fire narrative was influenced by
imply that moorland managers are either not very good at, its funding source (The Game and Wildlife Conservation
or do not care about, adequate fire control. In the above Trust, an organization that has a large number of members
examples, we are not trying to suggest that Brown eft al. active in game management or hunting, but which is also a
[17] are being deliberately misleading, rather that tone, pre- well-regarded research and conservation charity).
cision of language and an acknowledgement of complexity Unfortunately, as scientists we often have little control
is very important. There are substantial opportunities for mis- over the representation of our research within the media.
understanding which could result in it being deemed that the Others have noted how the characteristics of scientific