
measuring total blood volume changes, whereas 6 was estimated
with Monte Carlo simulations for a mix of vessel sizes. However,

the assumptions in the original derivation of the model left out (d Overview of the entire procedure
two effects that contribute to the BOLD signal: intravascular The simulation of BOLD fMRI from real vascular stacks using
signal changes, and volume exchange effects as vascular volume Monte Carlo simulations was thoroughly described in our pre-
expands and displaces extravascular volume, with intrinsically vious paper [17]. Some details of the experimental acquisition
different signals in the two compartments. To take into account are repeated in the following sections for completeness. However,
the missing components of the model as well as the new micro- important differences arise between our previous work and the
scopic data, Griffeth et al. [28] developed a more detailed model present one. First, we simulated a steady-state activation rather
that included these other effects. They found that when data than a 2s short stimulus. This was required in order to account
were simulated with their detailed model and analysed with the for the fact that the Davis model is a steady-state model that
Davis model, the estimated CMRO, changes were reasonably does not account for the transient haemodynamics occurring
accurate, but could be improved if the parameters a and £ of the during evoked functional activation with a short stimulus.
original Davis model are treated as free parameters that can be Second, we simulated different levels of arterial dilation as well
optimized to reflect multiple physiological and biophysical effects. as different levels of CMRO) increases rather than assuming a con-
However, in doing that, only a loose correspondence persists stant flow—metabolism coupling ratio. Third, both the intra- and
between the optimized parameters and their original physiological extravascular BOLD signals were simulated rather than extra-
meaning. It is also possible that the optimized values simply rep- vascular-only. Fourth, only the gradient-echo (GRE) signal was
resent the best way to negate other faulty assumptions in the simulated because spin echo is generally not used in calibrated
Davis model. Nevertheless, this optimization approach has been fMRI experiments owing to a lower signal-to-noise ratio.
shown to improve the accuracy of calibrated fMRI to recover A schematic overview of the entire procedure is presented in
changes in CMRO, [28]. figure 1. For each of the six vascular stacks, the BOLD response
To examine this in more detail from first principles, we took was simulated for 10%, 20% and 30% arterial dilation. For each