profile between a pair of brain regions, is related to the spatial limitations to this work. First, the results reported here are
distance between them: regions that are closer to each other correlational, not causative. More generally, there remains
will have greater genomic co-expression. Functional connect- an explanatory gap in determining whether and how these
ivity between regions is also conditional on distance: regions specific gene profiles support short-range intra-modular con-
that are closer to each other are more likely to have correlated nectivity (PLS1) or long-range inter-modular connectivity
fMRI time series and so to form clusters and modules of locally (PLS2). Second, the matching between fMRI and transcrip-
inter-connected nodes in fMRI brain graphs. The question arises: tional data is imperfect as the transcriptional data are based
does an association between gene co-expression and fMRI con- on six human brains (mean age = 42.5 years) sampled at
nectivity trivially reflect the confounding effect of distance? approximately 500 locations in each hemisphere, whereas
Previous studies have been concerned that topological clusters the fMRI data are recorded from 38 healthy young adults
and modules of nodes may have transcriptional profiles in (mean age = 22 years) sampled at 308 locations across the
common simply because they are spatial neighbours, or mem- cerebral cortex. Third, the interpretability of enrichment ana-
bers of the same cytoarchitectonic class [7]. For example, in lyses based on these microarray data is hampered by the fact
several studies of transcriptional similarity and anatomical that expression was not measured separately in different cell
connectivity in the rodent brain, a statistical correction for types. Up- or down-regulation of a gene may therefore

the distance of edges was used to show that greater genomic equally represent variations in the density of certain cell


types enriched for that gene or variation of expression levels Ethics. Participants provided informed written consent and the study | 12 |

of the gene within a cell type. Fourth, we approximated the was ethically approved by the National Research Ethics Service and
distance between connected nodes by the Euclidean (straight we conducted in accordance with NHS research governance a
standards. :
