central. Action mirroring, however, does not facilitate coordi- string quartet in rehearsal and performance conditions. They — =:
nated action per se; in fact, coordination may often require found that social and musical coordination depends on many = S
the execution of different/complementary actions among factors, including both socio-emotional issues (e.g. personal =
participants. In agreement with this view, it has been demon- concerns, performance anxiety) and musical coordination =
strated, however, that complementary action observation issues related to content and process (e.g. the technical aspects “2
may recruit the human mirror neuron areas to a greater of the music to be played and the mechanism adopted to ©
extent [38]. This result, in agreement with the behavioural achieve coordination such as the non-verbal gesture used to -5
requirements for sensorimotor interaction, suggests that the provide signals about timing). Other recent studies concerning =
human mirror mechanism might be tuned for action coordi- string quartets from the point of view of psychology of music =
nation rather than for simple action mirroring. These results and specifically addressing social aspects include, for example, -
are in line with an interactive account of sensorimotor trans- the work by King [45] focusing on collaboration between stu- 2
formations forming the basis for human social behaviour. In dent musicians in a wind quartet, saxophone quartet, and S
fact, the mirror mechanism may provide the substrate to rep- string quartet and investigating the common roles assumed by w
resent others’ action in visuomotor coordinates rather than in student musicians, with particular reference to leadership.
symbolic codes. Such direct sensorimotor coding of others’ Seddon & Biasutti [46] revealed six modes of communication 5
action may result extremely effective in anticipating the and two levels of attunement employed between members of 3
motor consequences of others’ actions and hence be used for a professional string quartet during rehearsal and performance ~
fast online action inhibition, action selection, or action modu- and indicated that musicians were able to become empatheti-
lation, to best fit our own behaviour within interpersonal cally attuned and produce spontaneous musical variations
coordination. This whole process, based on the existence of a during performance. Schiavio & Heffding [47] presented a
superordinate joint action goal, may be at the basis of non- study based on qualitative interviews with the Danish string
verbal sensorimotor communication. According to us, for the quartet and aiming at exploring the role of pre-reflective, embo-
case of orchestras and quartets, the investigation of sensori- died, and interactive intentionality in joint musical performance.
motor non-verbal communication is fundamental to Their analysis suggests that ‘expert musicians’ experience of col-
understand how to achieve the joint technical, aesthetic, and lective music-making is rooted in the dynamical patterns of