receive subtle messages in the form of visuomotor and audio-
motor events. This encoding/decoding process might be
conceived of as a complex and hierarchical input-output


mapping, ranging from sensorimotor mapping to the highest cohesion in the group depended also on merely organizational | 3 |

level of human action organization [36,37]. In this context, issues: the first violin was the leader in administrative issues
the frontoparietal circuit, endowed with mirror-like properties, too and the second violin was responsible for offering social a
might be particularly important in non-verbal communication support to the group. Davidson & Good [43] analysed social s
between individuals, especially when coordinated action is and musical coordination between members of a student a
central. Action mirroring, however, does not facilitate coordi- string quartet in rehearsal and performance conditions. They — =:
nated action per se; in fact, coordination may often require found that social and musical coordination depends on many = S
the execution of different/complementary actions among factors, including both socio-emotional issues (e.g. personal =
participants. In agreement with this view, it has been demon- concerns, performance anxiety) and musical coordination =
strated, however, that complementary action observation issues related to content and process (e.g. the technical aspects “2
may recruit the human mirror neuron areas to a greater of the music to be played and the mechanism adopted to ©
extent [38]. This result, in agreement with the behavioural achieve coordination such as the non-verbal gesture used to -5
requirements for sensorimotor interaction, suggests that the provide signals about timing). Other recent studies concerning =
human mirror mechanism might be tuned for action coordi- string quartets from the point of view of psychology of music =
nation rather than for simple action mirroring. These results and specifically addressing social aspects include, for example, -
are in line with an interactive account of sensorimotor trans- the work by King [45] focusing on collaboration between stu- 2
formations forming the basis for human social behaviour. In dent musicians in a wind quartet, saxophone quartet, and S
fact, the mirror mechanism may provide the substrate to rep- string quartet and investigating the common roles assumed by w
resent others’ action in visuomotor coordinates rather than in student musicians, with particular reference to leadership.