but also those of the country they now are in. Furthermore, the exploring the relationships between the individual and the
participants have their relational history, involving prior greet- interaction order, Goffman thus prioritized, at least methodo-
ings and shared memories of encounters with particular logically, the latter. While he maintained that understanding

degrees of intimacy and deference. The greeting is therefore the individual is necessary for the study of interaction, such


understanding involves a psychology of a particular kind: ‘one significance [10]. Thus, vulnerability is at the heart of the | 6 |

stripped and cramped to suit the sociological study of conver- very sense-making that characterizes living self-organizing
sation, track meets, banquets, jury trials, and street loitering’ systems, such as human individuals. a
([39], p. 2). Below, we will argue that Goffman’s psychology In spite of him claiming that his psychology is ‘stripped s
may in fact be more sophisticated than he wanted his readers and cramped’, Goffman’s work shows how particular vulner- a
to think. However, the position of enactivism is different. ability is at the heart of the individual’s participation in social — 2
Enactivism not only emphasizes the autonomy of interaction, interaction. This vulnerability involves the self. Goffman [1]
but likewise, the autonomy of the individuals participating in pointed out that an individual invests much psychic energy
the interaction. in their socially recognized self-image, or face. The face con- 2
The enactive definition of social interaction requires sists of positive social attributes. Therefore, it is essentially ‘2
that both the individuals involved and the interaction are derived from the supplies that society can offer. Importantly, ©
autonomous, before we can speak of a social interaction. the individual face is also utterly dependent on interactional = -5
According to this definition, we can speak of a social recognition and confirmation: our images as competent =
interaction only if both the following conditions are met: human actors, as men or women, or as incumbents of any =
(i) there is a co-regulation at the level of interaction dynamics other social identity are in the hands of our interaction part- -
that takes on an autonomous organization; and (ii) the auton- ners [41]. Physical and spatio-temporal arrangements are also 2
omy of the individuals participating in the interaction is not involved: claims for personal space and temporary occu- S