of strain recordings from the humerus. The values of e obtained ence of haemoglobin (Hb) in the blood. The concentration of w
by these methods vary between 0.23 and 0.11 [1]. The remain- Hb in the blood determines the maximum amount of oxygen =
ing 77-89% of the energy consumed is dissipated as heat. Such that the blood can carry, which is known as the oxygen carry- 5
studies also indicate that e does not have a constant value ing capacity. The Po, at which the Hb is 50% saturated is called 3
within a species; it may vary with flight speed and increase the Ps9. A number of factors can affect the Psp. If it is shifted to &
with increasing body mass. Hovering hummingbirds have an the left, there is an increase in affinity of Hb for oxygen, if it is
overall efficiency of around 0.08 if perfect elastic storage of shifted it to the right, there is a decrease in affinity.
energy occurs [22]. Oxygen combines reversibly with haemoglobin and the
Many morphological and behavioural features of birds change in the concentration of oxygen in blood for a given
have evolved which reduce the energy cost of flight. Examples change in Po, is called the capacitance coefficient (8). So, in
are wing shape, the use of thermals and tail winds, orographic arterial blood

lift and V-formation flight [23-27]. In fact, based on studies

C,O2 = PaO x
in which continually monitored heart rate was used as an “ 2 B,

indicator of P;, migrating barnacle and bar-headed geese where C,O2, oxygen concentration in arterial blood and P,O2,
(B. leucopsis and Anser indicus, respectively) fly along the partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood.

most energy-efficient routes available [28-30]. Even with The difference in the partial pressure of oxygen across the
such energy-conserving mechanisms, the respiratory and/or gas exchange regions of the lungs and within the muscles is
the circulatory systems still have to provide a continual extremely important, as this drives diffusion from the lungs
supply of oxygen and metabolic substrates to match the high into the blood and from the blood into the metabolizing
metabolic demands of the flight muscles. tissue. Other factors that influence the rates of diffusion at