larity among species is noteworthy and suggests that a for the circulation generated when the angle of attack is
combination of physical and biological constraints restrict the changing (figure 1d) [28]. Even with this so-called rotational
solutions available to hovering animals. lift term, the augmented quasi-steady model is imperfect

The time history of forces and moments generated during as it does not account for added mass effects and the com-
hovering is of course just as stereotyped as the pattern of plex interactions between the wing and its wake as the
wing motion that produces them (figure 1d). The wings wing quickly changes direction [29]. The flow dynamics = -5
generate peak force during the middle of the upstroke during stroke reversal, although captured reasonably well =
and downstroke. The upstroke peak is slightly higher because in the most accurate CFD simulations [43,44], are difficult 5
the midstroke velocity is greater during the upstroke than the to incorporate in simpler quasi-steady models. -
downstroke. Quasi-steady aerodynamic models predict 2
the time history of mid-stroke forces with remarkable 5
accuracy [23] (figure 1d,e), a fact that is due to the peculiar : w
stability of a flow structure known as the leading edge 3. Free fl ight manoeuvres =
vortex (LEV), a region of high vorticity that forms on wings Based on body orientation measurements in a wind tunnel, ©
moving at high angles of attack [29,35,36]. Experiments David proposed that the control of forward speed boils 3
with dynamically scaled robots [37-39] and computational down to the task of regulating pitch and throttle [45]. Accord- 53
fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations [40] demonstrate that ing to this model, a fly—like a helicopter—pitches nose-down
revolving wings create a stable LEV, and as a consequence, to accelerate, thereby directing the mean force vector forward.
elevated force coefficients (figure le,f ). The stability (i.e. the The reorientation of the force vector results in a slight drop in
lack of time dependence) of the LEV is noteworthy; a its vertical component, for which a fly must compensate by
model fly wing revolving like a propeller at a fixed angle of slightly increasing force magnitude to avoid descending
attack quickly develops an LEV and maintains it as long as as well as to balance the increase in forward drag. In
the wing continues spinning [41]. This explains why the experiments on tethered flies, Gotz & Wandel [46] directly
quasi-steady model based on measured force coefficients demonstrated that the orientation of the mean flight force