Interpreting the results of these ablation experiments is compli- elements in a block diagram represent actual neural pathways
cated by the likely possibility that the haltere functions both as and computations. Finally, the computations relevant to con-
a gyroscope and as a metronome to provide phasic input to the trol systems, such as differentiation and integration, are
wing steering system—and both these submodalities might automatically performed by neurons and muscles as part of
be influenced by descending control via the haltere muscles. their intrinsic operation. It may be tempting to see every
The antennae also possess muscles that alter the organ’s orien- example of such an operation as a functional feature of the
tation in response to visual motion [114]. Apparently each system, but in some cases it may simply represent a bug or
relevant sensory modality has the capacity to alter the sensi- epiphenomenon due to the hard constraints of the underlying
tivity of every other modality, thus creating a densely cell biology. Only careful experimental analysis can resolve
connected sensory motor network [71]. this tricky ‘feature versus bug’ problem. It is also important
As commented above, freely flying flies can execute rapid to appreciate that the stimuli most useful for performing sys-
turns using remarkably small changes in wing motion. This tems identification are not necessarily good proxies for the
fact is superficially at odds with the large changes in motion perturbations that an animal experiences in nature. For
exhibited by tethered flies in response to open-loop presenta- example, whereas it has been informative to subject flies to
tions of visual stimuli. Why are flies capable of creating such brief perturbations in free flight [68,91], measurements of air-
large changes in wing motion when subtle alterations suffice flow in natural settings indicate that flies would rarely, if
for the fastest flight manoeuvres? One explanation for this ever, experience perturbations at such short temporal scales
discrepancy is that mechanosensory-based, inner-loop reflexes [118-120]. They are much more likely to have to deal with
that increase active damping allow vision-based reflexes to large, long gusts and the design of their control system
operate at very high gain, and thus the exaggerated open- should be interpreted accordingly.

loop responses are expected [90]. Another possibility is that
the system has evolved to compensate for large internal pertur-
bations, such as asymmetrical wing damage. Unlike birds that
can replace lost or damaged feathers through moulting and