asymmetric positioning of the Pp0, which became influenced by asymmetric Nodal signalling during ontogeny. See ยง8 for additional details.

Because PpO-independent asymmetries exist in the Hb, The Hbis a bilaterally paired structure and according to our
it is not possible to analyse the evolution of all epithalamic proposal, its development is not compatible with a mechanism
asymmetries as a single phenomenon. As we have seen, of laterality control. Accordingly, it is likely that habenular
asymmetries of the Hb and PpO have different ontogenic asymmetry evolved through a transition from symmetry to
routes and affect structures of different nature (bilaterally directional asymmetry under the control of Nodal acting as
paired versus midline-unpaired), and thus it is plausible asymmetry inducer (figure 6b). We propose that asymmetric
that they had different evolutionary histories. Also, the Nodal gained the ability to interact with the left side of the
data we have analysed in previous sections show that asym- hypothetical ancestral Hb, which was symmetric, resulting in
metries of related structures can evolve independently and the acquisition of a unique trait with directional asymmetry
be produced by various mechanisms in a context-dependent in a single step. Manipulation of Nodal in the Hb of lampreys,
manner. Thus, it becomes relevant to identify the different catshark and zebrafish supports this proposal [22,52]. The fact
types of asymmetry and correctly understand whether and that a type of PpO-dependent asymmetries of the Hb has an
how they are dependent on each other. Detailed functional underlying anti-symmetry does not argue against this idea as
and comparative studies are essential to accomplishing this asymmetry of the Hb is a consequence of the asymmetric

this task. positioning of the PpO.


As the PpO is a midline-unpaired structure, both direct and We thus propose a new model for the evolution of epithala- 11 |

indirect routes are equally possible during the evolution of mic asymmetry (figure 6d). The hypothetical ancestral
directional asymmetry (figure 6c). Indeed, developmental condition had a symmetric Hb and a medially positioned PpO. a
data support the two-step route as the abrogation of directional During evolution, asymmetric Nodal acting as asymmetry indu- s