PO (b.cCPpm) 2 (SES) ~0, (2.11) glide polar, which predicts the aerodynamic sink rate (Us),
liad we need only subtract Wy from both sides of equation (2.13).

which shows that the wing span (b,.) at which the aerodynamic
cost of transport is minimized for a given airspeed, is the span

at which the induced drag equals half the profile drag. This (d) Model uncertainty In the g ide polar
conflicts with the outcome of the airspeed optimization In order to do anything more quantitative with the theory of the
(equation (2.10)), which shows that the induced drag equals glide polar, it is necessary to know the values of its numerical
the combined parasite and profile drag if a bird is flying at coefficients. Different workers have made different assump-
the best glide speed (U = Upg) for its given span. It follows tions, but the parasite drag coefficient (Cp,,,) has proven
that U # Ub in equation (2.11), which means that when a especially controversial, with entire papers dedicated to its esti-
bird is flying at the wing span b, that minimizes its cost of mation. In fact, for a given species, the value of Cp,,, has been
transport for a given airspeed, it is not flying at the airspeed lowered by as much as 75% between successive versions of
that would minimize the cost of transport for that wing span. the most widely used aerodynamic model [37,39]. Specifically,
This being so, we should not expect to see any change in under the current version of Pennycuick’s popular Fuicut soft-
wing span with increasing airspeed until the point at which ware [37], a value of Cp,,, = 0.1 is assumed for all species,
the induced drag equals half the profile drag, which will compared with values in the range 0.25 < Cp,,, < 0.40 in the
always be at an airspeed higher than Ug. Beyond this point, earlier version [39]. Science is supposed to be self-correcting,
wing span is expected to decrease with further increases of course, and it is appropriate that assumed values be revised
in airspeed, so as to maintain the same ratio of induced and in the light of new experimental data, but this discrepancy
profile drag. emphasizes the extent of the uncertainty in Cp,,., which is
Rearranging equation (2.11), we find that the aerodynamic further compounded by the uncertainty in the body frontal

energetic cost of transport is minimized if wing span varies area that it multiplies.