the limb. The interpretation of its relation in shape to a simple zonal root-field is as __
follows : the anterior border passes from the mid-dorsal line of the limb at the outer .
side of the knee, to the mid-ventral line of the limb at the inner side of the knee,
Instead of, like the anterior border of the Vth lumbar, being partially occupied by a
notch, it is entirely involved in forming the sides of a huge inflexion which stretches
from the level of the knee nearly to the ankle and has its retiring angle on the front
of the inner face of the leg not far above the ankle joint. The posterior border of
the field appears to be short, and extends from the mid-dorsal line of the limb about
half-way up the thigh, across the flexor muscle-group to the mid-ventral line of the
limb in the lower third of the thigh. It is not easy to determine where the posterior
border joins the ventral border, partly because the line of direction of the two borders
is so similar, It is also partly for the same reason not easy to determine the point at
which the anterior border joins the ventral border. In fact, the exact limits of the
veritral border I have not been able to satisfactorily demonstrate. Individual variation —
is one of the difficulties standing in the way of the determination. The dorsal border
forms the most distal part of the mid-dorsal line of the limb, and extends to a little
below the level of the knee. The ventral border as far as one can judge of it appears
to lie not so distally on the mid-ventral line of the limb as does ventral border of the
Vth. The most distal part of the mid-ventral line of the limb is therefore occupied
by the Vth lumbar field, but the most distal part of the mid-ventral line of the
limb is occupied by the VIth lumbar field. This is in harmony with the fact that
the ventral edge of the IIIrd lumbar field is the first to leave the mid-ventral line of
the trunk and run to a lateral extension of the mid-ventral line on the limb, while
the commencement of the mid-dorsal line of the limb is not made until the IVth
lumbar segment is reached. A means of testing the correctness of this determination