est because sleep is often considerably disrupted among people ment of GABAgergic inhibition can normalize the activity
with AD; in many cases long before the onset of cognitive symp- status of hyperactive neurons, restore slow-wave oscillations
toms [59]. Based on our experimental results, we hypothesized and improve memory deficits [18,56]. Furthermore, the anti-
that the AB-induced impairment of slow-wave oscillations and epileptic drug levetiracetam was shown to reduce neuronal
resulting functional decoupling of cortical—hippocampal— hypersynchrony and behavioural deficits in the hAPPJ20
thalamic networks during non-REM sleep could contribute to mouse model of AD [61]. Moreover, treatment with low
memory decline in AD. In line with this hypothesis, a recent doses of levetiracetam in people with early AD reduced hip-
cross-sectional study in 26 older humans showed that a high pocampal hyperactivation and improved performance in a

amyloid burden in the medial prefrontal cortex, as measured hippocampus-dependant memory task [15,62].


Finally, a recent study employing a chemogenetic approach that, in fact, excess neuronal activity, hypersynchrony and El

with designer receptors exclusively activated by designer altered brain oscillations are key features of the disease. Grow-
drugs (DREADDs) in AD mouse models (the 5XFAD and ing experimental evidence suggests that these functional a
PSZAPP models) indicated that reduction of neuronal hyperac- impairments are predominantly driven by the abnormal s
tivity can prevent the further build-up of amyloid plaques and accumulation of soluble AB in the brain. This process may
synapse loss [63], suggesting that hyperactivity is not only a start in patients decades before the occurrence of the first clini-
consequence of Af accumulation but a cellular mechanism cal symptoms. In view of a potential key role of neuronal
that directly promotes the pathogenesis of AD. hyperactivity for AD pathogenesis, we suggest that the thera-
peutic correction of neuronal circuit impairments, as early as = =
. possible, could prevent or slow down the onset of cognitive “2
7. Conclusion impairment in patients with AD. s
In AD research, we are witnessing a fundamental paradigm _ RS]