ates at the edge of criticality where small changes can make a of the thalamo-cortical system; the same holds for other deficits
big difference. It has already been demonstrated in small of consciousness including schizophrenia [219]. Hence, there is
neuronal models how near criticality can provide for efficient no convincing evidence to depart from the multi-scale network
yet system-dependent state space exploration [213]. The interpretation of consciousness advocated here.
question thus becomes what the norms are that we as embo- DACtoc proposes that consciousness is implemented by
died agents are exposed to how they are embedded in our means of a two-step mechanism involving BAS and midbrain
memories and how they are defining our actions. CBS, initially serving primary consciousness and later coopted
It has been common to emphasize levels in the study of con- by the thalamus and the fronto-parietal system of the neocortex
sciousness. DACtoc defined consciousness against deficits in the virtualizing normative transient memory of secondary
where both level and content are affected. Indeed, the notion consciousness. One aspect of this hypothesis is that none of
of levels of consciousness has been questioned as being incom- the systems attributed to the AL of DAC, in particular, the
plete [92]. DACtoc suggests that the confusion of level and hippocampus, amygdala, cerebellum and basal ganglia, are
content is due to the fact that they are simultaneously regulated figuring in the realization of primary and secondary conscious-
by the CVNM in an anisotropic fashion, i.e. one circuit might be ness. A common feature of these systems is that they are
extinguished by becoming dominated by low frequency bursting involved in the identification of the agent’s state space using
in its thalamic afferents taking it out of CVNM, while another cir- extero-, intero- and proprioceptive signals combined with mas-
cuit can be ‘ignited’ due to its thalamic afferents being released sive parallel processing we can speculate that this provides the
from inhibition. Thus the ‘level’ of thalamo-cortical circuits are core subconscious and probabilistic set of states that are critical
continuously and dynamically re-organized in an anisotropic in the generation of parallel real-time control on which CVNM

fashion defining the state of CVNM and content of qualia. The operates. Indeed, the cerebellum is the example par excellence


of an adaptive real-time controller, which can provide high-res- with fully simulated subcortical structures. DACtoc thus pre- | 18 |
