origin of bilateria adumbrated here put sessile headless ani-
mals central to eumetazoan and bilateria origins, just as
they are to the already widely accepted choanoflagellate-

sponge transition (here explicitly elucidated and divided Endnote
into two possibly temporally distinct phases). All three pro- ‘For Lamarck and Cuvier, zoophyta were the most primitive =
blems are more deeply illuminated by a unifying zoophyte animal group comprising protozoa, sponges and cnidaria. ‘Zoo- 2
perspective than by Haeckel’s anthropomorphic, self-mobile phyte’ here signifies primitively non-cephalized sessile animal ‘©
adult bias. Sessile presponge headless zoophytes with disper- ancestors with ciliated larvae to emphasize (i) that animals probably >
sive ciliated larvae were the first animals; muscle-driven began and most phyla originated via that organisational grade, nota = =:
mobility is secondary. Heads followed rather than led basic ae thati gastraearlike adult and (ji) that plant-mimicking Photo- =
: . ; synthetic consortia involving endosymbiotic algae (pro- eu- and >
animal innovations. Can a simpler path fit the facts? meta- [52]) figure largely in the ecology and possibly origins of — 5,
a sponges and anthozoa. Plants and animals evolved independently aw
Competing interests. T have no competing interests. from zooflagellate ancestors; there never was a transition between a
funding. T received no funding specifically for this study. them; carnivorous plants that so engaged Erasmus and Charles S
Acknowledgements. I thank Des Clark-Walker and Clive Wilkinson for Darwin as transitional hints [53] are phylogenetically irrelevant x
hosting my 1985/1986 Australian sabbatical, the Royal Society for red herrings. S
a
s
a
References
1. Chang ES, Neuhof M, Rubinstein ND, Diamant A, 10. Leadbeater BSC. 2015 The choanoflagellates: Hacrobia and Chromista. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 93,
Philippe H, Huchon D, Cartwright P. 2015 Genomic evolution, biology and ecology. Cambridge, UK: 331-362. (doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2015.07.004)
insights into the evolutionary origin of Myxozoa Cambridge University Press. 18. Cavalier-Smith T, Chao EE, Lewis R. 2016 187-gene