interactions can have a scaffolding function, i.e. serve to establish mentioned above [61].

close proximity between a DGC, i.e. a local source of c-di-GMP,
and the thereby preferentially served c-di-GMP-binding effector . .
component. A recently reported example is the DGC GcbB in 4, Trigger PDEs as a novel class of c-di-GMP-

Pseudomonas fluorescens, which directly docks onto the mem- i ;
brane-integral c-di-GMP effector LapD, which promotes sensing effector proteins
biofilm formation by inhibiting the proteolytic release of a sur- Quite unexpectedly, a particular class of enzymatically active
face adhesin [29]. In addition, protein-protein interactions EAL domain proteins has recently been added to the growing
within a c-di-GMP signalling module can assume regulatory list of c-di-GMP-sensing effectors, with PdeR (formerly YciR)
functions, i.e. directly activate or inhibit molecular functions of E. coli as the prototype [30]. These c-di-GMP-sensing
of the partner proteins. This principle is illustrated by the ‘trigger PDEs’ are more than simple PDEs and in fact com-
PdeR/DgcM/MIrA complex in E. coli [30], which at the same bine a number of functions: they (i) control the activity of a
time has provided the paradigm for a c-di-GMP-sensing trigger macromolecular target (another protein or a promoter
PDE (PdeR) and is therefore described in detail in §4. region on the DNA) by direct and specific interactions in
a manner that is modulated by (ii) their binding and
degradation of c-di-GMP (i.e. their PDE function), which
: oe therefore represents (iii) the c-di-GMP sensor or effector func-
3. c-di-GMP-binding effectors tion. Thus, theis primary function is the control of activity of
An intracellular second messenger such as c-di-GMP has to another macromolecule by direct interaction, while their
be sensed, i.e. bound by a specific effector component or PDE activity is a secondary function that modulates the
receptor that interacts with a specific target to exert cellular primary activity. Appreciating the full function of these pro-
effects. There is a striking diversity of c-di-GMP effectors teins thus requires a change of perspective, as initially we
and targets—as a consequence, virtually any kind of process recognize and classify them as carriers of intact EAL domains