movements of the cell membrane must proceed before the kept fast and robust; if they were to ‘decide then move’
establishment of a collective decision by lateral inhibition. decisions would be extremely slow and the sprouts may
Consequently, we propose that ‘move while deciding’ better not extend well during this time. The computational model
captures the temporal ordering of the process, with early move- used in this particular study has been utilized and extended
ment behaviours occurring before gene expression changes across many different experimental collaborations described
have taken place. This reversal of the schematic has several herein, providing critical insight into the complex dynamics
important implications; for example, filopodia are usually con- of the CPG. In this model the EC outer membrane is
sidered a feature of the end behaviour, and traditionally used to represented at a subcellular level by a collection of individ-
quantify fully selected tip cells [40], rather than a feature of the ual computational agents (‘memAgents’) connected by
initial (‘deciding’) process occurring to some degree in all cells. springs following Hooke’s law, which represents tension
Furthermore, how can the behaviour occur before it is selected? in the actin cortex beneath [49]. This ‘memAgent-Spring
What about cause and effect? From a temporal perspective, it is Model’ (MSM) allows simple, subcellular level rules to
easier to conceive that tip cells are not in fact ‘selected’ at all: all generate localized responses of individual memAgents on
cells begin to migrate initially—it is their ‘default’ state [41]; it is the cell surface by moving between on and off lattice
the stalk cells that are selected by Notch signalling. With this modes, all together driving high resolution cell shape and
realization, cause followed by effect is restored! gene expression changes in a realistic, emergent manner.

Furthermore, the model was temporally well defined, in
that all time delays involved were matched as far as possible

(ii) Active perception .
to experimental data.

As Dewey so elegantly stated in 1896 [42, pp. 137-138]: ‘We
begin not with a sensory stimulus, but with a sensorimotor