products, which can give rise to very high levels of lipid, It might be instructive to list the other adaptations w
protein and DNA damage. It should be stressed that due to explained by enhanced endogenous ROS formation. The = =~
the pleiotropic effects of oxidative modifications on all major almost complete bacterial (mitochondrial) genome reduction ©
groups of macromolecules, even more oxidative damage as a result of migration of genes to the host genome can be 3
might ensue, giving rise to a vicious circle possibly leading to understood as an ‘escape’ from the area flooded by ROS = 5
even higher mutation levels [45]. Thirdly, symbiogenesis (the mitochondrial genome is attached to its internal mem-
allowed a quantum leap in opportunities in respect to ATP gen- brane [49]) to a more distant area protected by the nuclear
eration, both in regards to substrate versatility (the different membrane. Thus, nuclear membrane formation itself could
metabolic pathways of the two founding cells being combined) have come about under pressure of pre-mitochondrial ROS
and in respect to efficiency (internal oxidative phosphoryla- formation (but see also [50]). Large cellular size increase to
tion by ‘mitochondria’). The momentous endosymbiont to dilute ROS and the advent of diploid chromosomes, as well
organelle conversion and many other ‘expensive’ cellular as ongoing improvements in DNA repair and replication in
adaptations are paid for by the fact that ATP generation is no the nucleus, would also make sense. The evolution of auto-
longer limiting. Yes, meiotic sex is very costly, but eukaryotes phagy, together with the cycles of mitochondrial fusion and
are able to pay. fission, can be seen as mechanisms selected to specifically

rid the cell of mitochondria(l DNA) damaged by ROS [49].
These mechanisms could even be behind the development

5. A ‘double whammy’: more information to of uniparental mitochondrial inheritance (UPI) as well (see
. . below). Interestingly, fusion/ fission balance is also important
protect against more mutation for mitochondrial adaptation to different substrates, such as
It becomes clear that under these circumstances a meiotic glucose or fatty acids [51]. However, it is not clear when
system almost had to evolve when we consider simple basic the fusion/fission cycle became part of the eukaryotic reper-
aspects of Muller's ratchet: it depends on only two variables, toire [49,52]. As stated previously, full meiotic sex can be