(i) The control of morphodynamics at multiple scales: linking The orientation of newly deposited cellulose fibres is under
molecular regulation to geometry control of the cytoskeleton, in particular the microtubules,
As we have seen above (ยง2a(ii)), auxin accumulation triggers which guide the cellulose synthesizing complexes in the
organ initiation at least in part by feeding into a MRN. How plasma membrane [42,44,45].
do changes in the activity of this network lead to changes in From the above it should be clear that the mechano-
shape at higher levels of organization? In other words, how is chemical state of the wall appears as a fundamental link
molecular regulation linked to geometry? This is not a trivial between molecular growth regulation and the effective
question and many studies do not go further than stating that shape evolution of the tissue. In simple terms, the genetic
a particular gene is involved in promoting or reducing network controlling morphogenesis can target two pathways:
growth of a particular organ. As a first essential step to it can act on the enzymes that modulate synthesis and
address this problem, Coen et al. [37] proposed a straightfor- stiffness of the cell wall, or it can act on the dynamics of
ward concept to express gene function in terms of geometry. the cytoskeleton. A next step is, therefore, to unravel the
Starting from the fact that any change in geometry can be link between developmental regulators and the structural
described by changes in local growth rates and directions, elements of the cell. In the following paragraphs we will
they concluded that genes locally act on three main par- discuss recent progress in this field.

ameters: growth rate, the degree of anisotropy and the
direction of anisotropy [37]. Fundamental to their approach

is that studying growth patterns as outputs of gene action (iii) Molecular regulation of morphomechanics at the shoot
requires detailed quantitative knowledge of geometry over apical meristem

time. In addition, as it is not possible to attribute precise How does auxin affect wall structure? Does it act only
parameter values on an intuitive basis, they designed a mod- indirectly on the wall via transcriptional regulation? Can it
elling framework for tissue growth, termed the growing also act more directly? Although we are only at the beginning