writing). Any of these processes, or others discussed by Ster- ution of innovativeness is essential. However, rather than
elny [95] in the present theme issue, might have been added using proxies of environmental variables, assumed to reflect
to the innovation toolkit of a recent descendant of a huma- specific environmental conditions, future research should aim

noid flexible stem. to employ measured ecological variables. In one example,


innovations are considered to assist in coping with novel indicates that innovativeness will no longer be considered a

environments based on the finding that establishment of trait, but rather one component, or even an emergent property,
birds in areas outside their geographical range is associated of a larger array of traits that have evolved to cope with
with higher innovation counts [100]. However, the novelty of environmental variation. These traits probably include first
the recipient environment is assumed, not measured. In fact, and foremost neophilia, motor flexibility, learning (and prob-
many invasive birds are pre-adapted to man-made environ- ably inhibition [27,52]) and morphological features that
ments (from which they are transported and to which they increase the diversity of ways in which an individual can inter-
are introduced) meaning recipient environments share many act with its physical surroundings. This transition re-aligns the
similarities with source environments. outlook of experimental, individual-level and comparative,
To test the prediction that innovations are associated cross-taxon-level research.
with harsh and changing conditions, one could examine the Ihave identified existing research gaps to be in establishing
overlap between species range and climate variability docu- causal relationships between psychological process variables = -5
mented in large meteorological databases. To the best of and innovativeness, measuring innovativeness across multiple =
my knowledge, this kind of analysis has been undertaken contexts, obtaining direct measurements of environmental =
for primates but not birds [15]. It might also be possible to variability and demonstrating that living in variable environ- -
measure variation in innovativeness experimentally in popu- ments makes animals more innovative. It has become clear 2
lations undergoing different rates of urbanization obtained that innovative behaviour arises from a combination of psycho- S