organisms that are more often studied in the context of these organisms selection mostly acts after copulation or the = S
sexual selection. release of gametes. In this sense, sexual selection is ‘cryptic’,

Let us start with organisms that function as males and favouring subtle variations in reproductive physiology =
females as we know it, albeit simultaneously. In the case of that may fail to attract the attention of researchers more com- “>
hermaphroditic fungi, mate selection can act at the level of monly familiar with overt sexual dimorphism and obvious ©
the nucleus, where the sex role is determined by which adaptations that function in the context of reproductive compe- — -s
nucleus retains its cytoplasm (the male nucleus is donated, tition. This apparent bias in the study of sexual selection has its =
whereas the female nucleus receives a nucleus from the roots with Darwin [1], who linked sexual selection to cognitive =
other individual’s mycelium). The mechanism by which ability (§1) and overlooked the possibility that females often -
nuclei are selected as mating partner is very similar to that mate with more than one male [3]. As Darwin stated, ‘It is 2
found in broadcast spawners, via pheromones secreted by shown by various facts, given hereafter, and by the results S
the male nuclei [111]. In fact, chemical signalling between fairly attributable to sexual selection, that the female, through w
gametes appears to be universal among sessile or weakly comparatively passive, generally exerts some choice and = =~
mobile broadcast spawning invertebrates, thus providing accepts one male in preference to others. Or she may accept, ©
the potential for sexual selection to target post-ejaculatory as appearances would sometimes lead us to believe, not the 3
processes that ultimately facilitate fertilization by preferred male which is the most attractive to her, but the one which = =
or compatible gametes. Remote communication between is the least distasteful’ (pp. 272-273). Darwin’s views on
male and female gametes, or cellular-level interactions female sexual behaviour, possibly influenced by Victorian pru-
involving gamete recognition proteins, may therefore be the dery [143], almost certainly delayed the onset of studies on
precursors to more derived mechanisms of mate choice in post-ejaculatory competition by denying the now irrefutable
the highly mobile, sexually dimorphic organisms that are evidence that polyandry is widespread among most sexually
more familiar to most students of sexual selection [140]. reproducing organisms (see [144] and accompanying articles).

Hermaphrodites nicely illustrate how selection acts differ- Can we apply what we learn from the organisms discussed