either toward oneself or toward an external object, event or person (adapted from [25}).

of the scale was to be used when participants were thinking about simultaneously, with either a Micromed (two patients, sampling
themselves, about their feelings, body or mood, as in ‘I’m hungry’, rate: 1024 Hz; online band-pass filter: 0.15—463.3 Hz; reference:
‘I should be more concerned’ or ‘I’m bored’. The ‘External’ Cz electrode) or Neuralynx monitoring system (three patients;
extreme was to be used when participants were thinking about sampling rate: 4000 Hz; online low-pass filter: 1000 Hz; reference:
something that was external to them, as for instance ‘It’s raining’ electrode contact in the skull).
or ‘What was the title of the book that Peter recommended?’. The Data were downsampled to 1000 Hz and band-pass filtered
‘Time’ scale was used to report whether the thought referred to off-line between 0.5 and 25 Hz, using a fourth-order Butterworth
past, present or future events, while the ‘Valence’ scale was filter. All iEEG signals were re-referenced to their nearest neigh-
used to determine whether the thought was pleasant or unplea- bour on the same electrode shaft (bipolar montage) to limit
sant. Participants could skip the ratings if they did not have any volume-conducted influences, including the cardiac-related arte-
clear thought when the stimulus appeared or if they did not fact. In the following, we will refer to these bipolar montages as
know how to rate the thought. If a trial was skipped a new one ‘recording sites’.
was added to the block, unbeknownst to the participant. Electrode contacts were automatically identified on the
Before performing the actual experiment, patients were given computed tomography (CT)-scan obtained after electrode
written and oral instructions and were trained on the scales by implantation, using a watershed transform-based algorithm. The
rating five examples of thoughts. Their ratings were discussed CT-scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) obtained after
with the experimenter to ensure task comprehension. Patients implantation were registered to the pre-implantation MRI using
then performed a practice block of the thought-sampling task, Baladin [26], and all images were normalized to Montreal
with two trials. Neurological Institute (MNI) space using SPM12. The automatic
electrode localization was verified visually and corrected if
j j necessary using an interactive tool (EpiLoc toolbox developed b
(0 Intracranial electroe cephalographic data the STM (Gtereotaxy: Techniques, Images, Models) engineering
acquisition, preprocessing and electrode localization platform (http: //icm-institute.org/en /cenir-stim-stereotaxy-core-