during stimulation of the respiratory [16], gastrointestinal [17] arterial spin labelling (ASL) and blood-oxygenation-level
and urinary [18] systems. Within the cardiac system, few stimu- dependent (BOLD), respectively.
lation studies exist. Most have assessed heartbeat interoception Taking these considerations into account, we hypothesized
under resting physiological conditions. In each case, these rest- that it would be feasible to record brain activation during inter-
ing studies have observed activation of the insula, although oceptive stimulation with isoproterenol. We hypothesized
not always in the same regions. For example, tasks emphasizing that the insula would exhibit activation during periods of
interoceptive accuracy for heartbeat sensations tend to activate cardiorespiratory sensation induced by isoproterenol. Given
the anterior insula [19-21], whereas tasks emphasizing intero- the available lesion and functional neuroimaging evidence,
ceptive attention tend to activate more posterior regions, we also considered the possibility that sensory regions
specifically the dorsal mid-insula [22-24]. Although correlations beyond the insula might also demonstrate activation.

between interoceptive accuracy and right insula activation have
been observed in some studies, the fact that most individuals fail

to accurately detect heartbeat sensations at rest [25] raises some ;
uncertainty about the degree to which the observed insula 2. Material and methods
activations directly reflect subjective experience. (a) P articip: ants

One noteworthy stimulation study used continuous infusions Twenty-one healthy individuals (15 female, 20 right handed)
of isoproterenol to target brain regions responding to cardiore- between the ages of 18 and 58 years (mean = 23.8, s.d. = 8.5) par-
spiratory stimulation during positron emission tomography ticipated in this study. These participants were of normal body
neuroimaging [26]. Isoproterenol peripherally stimulates beta-1 weight (body mass index = 22.4, s.d. = 4.9), did not have any life-
and beta-2 adrenergic receptors in the heart and lungs, resulting long history of neurological, psychiatric, diabetic, cardiovascular
in stronger and faster heartbeats and bronchial airway dilation. In or respiratory disorders, all were unmedicated, and demonstrated
