phylogenies are confounded by gaps and the heterogeneous insights might be gained for the future development of
structure of the rock record [8]. For most groups, stratigraphic molecular clock methodology.

samples are smaller, there are stronger ecological and, there-
fore, geographical controls on distribution, and fossilization
is less common. Combined with the non-uniform preservation 2. The orig in and ea rly evolution of the
of environments in the rock record [9], the fossil records of most l | l k

groups are too non-uniform for stratophenetic approaches, and molecular coc

relative (rather than absolute ancestor—descendent) evolution- The molecular clock hypothesis was conceived from the
ary relationships are the most that can be achieved with any observation that the differences between homologous amino
degree of certainty. This fact is borne out by a general lack of acid sequences from different mammal species is roughly pro-
correlation between the order of stratigraphic appearance and portional to their time of divergence [24,25]. If the time of
phylogenetic branching among fossil species, since sibling- divergence between any pair of species is known, such as
lineages should exhibit contemporaneous first fossil occur- based on the oldest fossil record from one of the pair of lineages,
rences [10,11] (figure 1a). Theoretical objections have been then the rate of molecular evolution can be inferred and used to
raised against the practice of identifying ancestors among date the timing of divergence between other species pairs. The
fossil taxa since species do not beget other species but, rather, molecular clock was widely employed to date species diver-
they emerge through differentiation among populations [12] gences in the 1990s when molecular sequence data first
and, thus, to identify an ancestral species is a category became available for diverse lineages. However, many of
error—it effectively identifies the species as paraphyletic, those early analyses produced extremely ancient divergence
only components among which can be considered as potential time estimates, such as a Mesoproterozoic origin of bilaterian
ancestors. And hypotheses of ancestry are also problematic animals [26], a Cryogenian origin of land plants [27], a deep Jur-
because they rely upon negative evidence, i.e. the fact that assic origin of flowering plants [28] and a deep Cretaceous