a person becomes at risk for depression when his brain is inef- enough to draw your attention to yourself and away from
ficient at managing energy regulation for some relatively the world.’* Pervasive negative affect may be a context
prolonged period of time (i.e. weeks to months). Inefficiency in which the brain has difficulty processing prediction
could result, for example, if the metabolic demand on the error. Indeed, depression is associated with inwardly focused
body was large in the past and the brain has not adjusted to attention [200]. By contrast, associative thinking has been
its current context (e.g. the person was raised in an impover- linked, both conceptually and empirically, to positive affect
ished or adverse environment where rewards were rare, risks [147,201].
were frequent, and large investments of metabolic energy Pervasive negative affect could also lead one to construct a
were routinely required). Consistent with these hypotheses, profoundly negative internal model. The brain samples past
adverse childhood experiences such as traumatic events or experiences to create predictions of the immediate future and
neglect [195,196] are associated with later structural and func- itis doing so ina current context of metabolic inefficiency. Feel-
tional abnormalities in the brain’s core networks that predate ing unpleasant could also lead to affective realism, trapping
the onset of depression [197-199] and may be associated a person in a vicious cycle of negativity. In fact, there is
with miscalibrated predictions. Metabolic efficiency may also abundant evidence that persistent distress plays a critical role
be compromised by the loss of a loved one [191-194], as well in major depression. Diagnostically, sustained unpleasant
as by the persistent presence of low-grade stressors (often pre- mood, irritability and/or anhedonia are key symptoms of

sent in adverse environments characterized by inconsistency a major depressive episode. Furthermore, in the course of a


given episode, both prediction and prediction errors are biased
towards the unpleasant (e.g. attention to and memory
of information that will disrupt optimal energy regulation;
e.g. [202]). Epidemiologically, sustained distress plays a signifi-
cant role in depression, over the long course of risk, illness,