Europe and Asia. It spread to North and South America at increase agro-ecosystem diversity in a dynamic way that fluc-
the beginning of the twentieth century and has more recently tuates regularly (e.g. annually or every few years) in order to
been disseminated from wheat fields in Europe and North impose disruptive selection on populations of crop pathogens
America to wheat fields in Africa and Australia [63]. and force them to make trade-offs among traits (figure 1). This
Almost all populations of P. striiformis are mainly clonal; ‘dynamic diversity’ can be implemented in many ways [67—
however, the presence of sexually reproducing populations 70], including improved deployment strategies for resistance
in the Himalayas indicates that the original pathogen life genes and resistant cultivars, more frequent turnover of crop
cycle involved a sexual stage. The sexual stage of many rust varieties that carry different resistance genes, improved
fungi, including P. striiformis, occurs on an alternative host, deployment strategies for fungicides, more frequent crop
in the case of P. striiformis on barberry (Berberis vulgaris) [64]. rotations that include more species, smaller fields planted to

The virulence of P. striiformis isolates is highly correlated individual crops and growing greater numbers of crop species
with temperature [65]. This reflects the fact that germination per unit area under cultivation. The overall objective is to
of the asexual urediospores is temperature limited and disease break up the adaptive landscape into smaller units that
development in wheat fields is correlated with spore germin- change on a regular basis to present the corresponding popu-
ation. The severe stripe rust epidemic in the USA in 2000 was lations of crop pathogens with evolutionary dilemmas that
caused by the emergence of new clone-producing spores that lead to disruptive selection (figure 1). For example, an effector
could germinate at increased temperatures. This temperature gene mutation that enables a pathogen strain to overcome a
adaptation allowed the pathogen to invade hitherto disease- recently deployed major resistance (R) gene present in a new
free wheat fields in the southern USA and cause devastating cultivar may decrease fitness on a different cultivar lacking
yield losses [65]. The clone that had adapted to warmer temp- that R-gene. The decreased fitness may reflect a trade-off that
eratures was found in Australia only two years later, lowers overall pathogen reproduction, transmission or viru-
documenting the high risk associated with inter-continental lence on the cultivar lacking the R-gene [69-72]. Similarly, a
spread of new pathogen strains through human activities mutation in a gene that decreases sensitivity to one fungicide
