of looking horizontally, right whales could search overhead for approx. 160m, not shown.) In thick layers of copepods,
copepods using their dorsal visual field. As forward scattering even if they are randomly distributed, the contrast would
of light is included in our copepod attenuation measurements, nearly always be visible throughout the entire foraging
we can reasonably accurately predict the downward light depth range near Cape Cod. Thus, whales could easily
attenuation by any given concentration of copepods if we detect patches with copepod densities known to occur at
know patch dimensions. Even if the copepods are randomly their foraging depths, at least in locations of fair water clarity.
dispersed, their lower average concentrations would be offset Densities and distributions of RGCs in ventral retinas of
by the thickness of the horizontal pancake within which they E. glacialis should be measured to learn whether this could
exist, so the whale could visually experience something like a be done even without postural changes by the whales.
cloud passing in front of the down-welling light—which Blue whales sight prey concentrations when swimming
might be all it needs to localize the copepod mass. Work on upwards, looking ahead and visually targeting patches of
zooplankton light absorption and scattering suggests that krill against surface light for a feeding lunge [2], so overhead
their visual predators should, in fact, look more laterally near monitoring by right whales should not be ruled out. It would
the surface and more vertically at depth [37]. But for this to be interesting to make depth casts of an upward-looking radi-
work for E. glacialis, the whale must monitor the overhead ance metre coupled with an optical plankton recorder so that

visual field, and we do not know if right whales do this. the effects of copepod layers on down-welling light could be


monitored directly. It would also be revealing to attach releasa- North Atlantic right whales make V-shaped dives when

ble cameras (like the ‘Crittercams’ used with blue whales [38]) searching for plankton, which implies rapid or continuous

to foraging right whales. While the dim illumination could be dark adaption. These are thought to be used to track prey a
problematic, it should be possible to monitor whether the depths and locations. During subsequent foraging dives, s