tures of their feather and fur coloration patterns, might use reflectance in females may be due to intersexual selection
visual communication in dim light. (male mate choice). In fact, in some monogamous species

with biparental care, males seem to select their mate in the
same manner as females, as the fitness of the former is also
affected by female quality [31,32,34]. As an additional or

2. Visual signalling in birds alternative explanation, sexual dichromatism in eagle owls
For many years, it was believed that crepuscular and nocturnal could have also emerged from female-female competition
bird species only use vocal communication. Yet, a growing for both a mate and a territory. In eagle owls, due to
body of literature has recently provided new insights into the subtle sexual size dimorphism, colour variability in the
how important visual signals also are for these species [21]. white badge may be used as a signal of female quality related
It is well known that: (i) birds use very specific light environ- to body size. In fact, a significant correlation was detected
ments for their displays where plumage characteristics are between female forearm size and brightness [33]. In this
maximized because of the ambient light and background prop- way, the variability in the female white badge could have
erties [18,19] and (ii) the light environment plays a role in the arisen as a means to evaluate rivals. As female body size
evolution of colour patterns and signals [19,22,23]. Thus, we has been related to fertility in different raptor species (e.g.
can easily expect that any visual signal used around twilight larger females produce more and larger eggs) [35], males
by crepuscular and nocturnal bird species should maximize could benefit from choosing mates based on this trait.
the use of the scarce light available. This was experimentally Thus, signal conspicuousness in nocturnal birds may be an
demonstrated by Penteriani & Delgado [24] when studying effective way of distinguishing between potential mates. This
the patterns and functionality of the white patch of the eagle might also be the case for the red-necked nightjar C. ruficollis, a
owl Bubo bubo throat: the variability in the total amount of nocturnal bird in which the variation of white bands on the
light reflected by throat feathers is exploited as a high-contrast wings and tail is related to sex and age, being larger in males
signal both at twilight and on bright nights. Notably, the white and adults [17]. This variation potentially allows individuals to