throat of eagle owls is repeatedly exposed (inflated and evaluate others in aggressive or reproductive contexts. In the
deflated) at each call, following a pattern of switched on-off great snipe, males have white spots on their tails, and females
that may be related to the idea that birds should mostly choose the males with the whitest signals [15]. As stressed by
communicate with dynamic signals [25]. Aragonés et al. [17], nightjars are birds that rely on crypsis (as
Visual communication in crepuscular and nocturnal bird one of the most efficient antipredator mechanisms), while
species may be modulated by lunar cycles [26]. lida [27] visual communication requires the conspicuousness of signals.
reported that the display flight of the Latham’s snipe Thus, visual cues in nocturnal birds may be the outcome of an
Gallinago hardwickii usually has peak periods shortly before appropriate balance between these two selection forces, and
sunrise and shortly after sunset, as well as at midnight for this reason, these signals are generally hidden under cryptic
during full-moon periods. Indeed, the number of displays feathers and only visible during displays.
increases on full-moon nights. The increase of displays may It is at sunset and sunrise when little bustard males [36]

be related to the fact that males can easily locate females in perform wing-flash displays at their lekking sites. Such


displays have been suggested to play a role in the context of mutual preference for similar phenotypes [46] and/or by | 4 |

male—male competition and mate choice [16]. These assump- intrasexual competition for nest sites. This competition may
tions are respectively supported by two facts. First, the result in high-quality individuals gaining access to the best
probability that a male used a wing-flash display increased territories and pairing with high-quality mates. Following
with lek size. Second, the wing-flash display was most likely Kose & Moller [47], there are at least two potential costs
performed when a female visited the display site. Further, veg- associated with using white plumage for signalling. First,
etation height also affected the probability of wing-flash melanization strengthens feathers; non-melanized feathers
displays, and it is likely that in habitats that preclude the are more likely to break due to their greater structural weak-
propagation of visual cues (e.g. high vegetation) males will ness. Second, if feathers without melanin are particularly