fossil-based calibrations [6-8,48]. Biogeographic calibrations the magnitude of the barrier(s) or landbridge(s) over time
rely on a number of explicit and implicit assumptions that and get influenced, e.g. by the distance and depth of seaways
have associated errors which must be accommodated to between continents [58]. Bearing this in mind, it is clear that
ensure calibration accuracy. These include, first and foremost, geological events will impact different ecological groups at
the assumption that a specific geological event is causal to the different times. For instance, the very initial stages of conti-
biogeographic event that underpins the cladogenesis or nental rifting, which can last for several tens of millions of
distribution of descendent species. Although this is the foun- years [28,29], may prevent gene flow among highland-
dation of any biogeographic calibration, it is rarely justified or adapted [59] and salinity-intolerant amphibians (e.g. pipid
evidenced. This is unfortunate because it is widely appreci- frogs), yet populations of pelagic birds can maintain gene
ated that extant distributions need not reflect the historical flow even across broad oceans. The same biogeographic epi-
range of a lineage. Thus, lineages are not necessarily as old sode may be causal in lineage divergences in both highland
as the geological terranes that their living representatives amphibians and pelagic birds, but it does not follow that
inhabit [49,50]; and they could, in fact, be older if they origi- the same time prior should be used for dating both groups.
nated elsewhere [51]. The geographical range of species can Similarly, when landmasses connect, the first events of biotic
change considerably on geological timescales as a con- interchange should be expected from easily dispersed and
sequence of dispersal, localized extinction, climatic and environmentally generalist organisms. The relationship might
environmental changes, and the evolution of the species’ intrin- be reversed or even more complex for marine organisms.
sic environmental tolerances (niche conservatism or lability). In sum, biogeographic calibrations are subject to at least as
Environmental controls on the geographical range of species many uncertainties as are fossil-based calibrations. Some of
can lead to biogeographic convergence—pseudocongruence— these are the same, including the problems associated with
between lineages of very different antiquity [52]. dating geological sequences and the degree to which those
The dating of historical biogeographic events used in geological dates approximate lineage divergence [8,60,61].
divergence time estimation has an equally poor record of However, biogeographic calibrations introduce further uncer-
justification [27,53]. While a radiometric date may provide an tainty, not only in terms of the degree to which the geological
