another class of models which posit that conscious perception The main feature of audition that distinguishes it from the other >
can arise only when certain supramodal brain areas become senses is the extent of its sensitivity to diverse types of events in =
involved (e.g. frontoparietal cortex [24], the ventral attention the environment; no other sense maintains responsiveness inas
system [59]), not that the latter class of theories do not also widely varying environmental contexts as does audition (at =
require the involvement of relevant sensory cortex. However, least for environments in which biological organisms exist).
some models—information integration theory, for example— Like vision (but unlike touch), audition is a far sense in that it = &

would not necessarily fall into either category according to this is sensitive to distant sound sources and events presuming S&S

classification. they are sufficiently intense. By contrast, audition is similar to S
Another way to classify models of conscious perception is touch (but dissimilar to vision) in that it remains ‘open’ to exter-
via the relationship they posit, if any, between consciousness nal events during sleep and in total darkness (though brighter
and attention. While the two have long been thought to be light sources can traverse the eyelids). In fact, we know from be-
inextricable (such that attention is necessary for conscious per- havioural and electrophysiological studies (particularly of the
ception [36,40,51,52]), or even one and the same process [60], k-complex) that acoustic stimuli are evaluated to a high level
recent work has suggested that they may be distinct processes during sleep [69-72]. Furthermore, salient sound, particularly
that, though strongly linked, are dissociable under certain cir- when meaningful or deviant, is quite effective at inducing tran-
cumstances [56,61]. The models that posit an inextricable link sitions from sleep to wakefulness [69,73,74]. Finally, unlike
between attention and conscious perception would predict either vision or touch, audition has a resting sensitivity to exter-
that the latter is not possible in the complete absence of the nal events covering the whole of three-dimensional space, be
attention (it is unclear whether this is achievable in practice) they distal or proximal [75]. In humans and other primates,
or without engagement of attentional networks. detection of events or objects via the visual system requires
Yet a third way to classify the various models of conscious either that they be within a relatively limited field of view or
perception is in what function they ascribe to it, if any (cf. §3). that the organism actively orient itself such that they are
Those models that do ascribe some function to consciousness (which is probably tightly coupled to attentional reorienting).