alle all dae GO
a a a a a a oo oer eed 0
0 100 200 300 400 0 100 200 300 400 010.5 v ©
latency (ms) latency (ms) dipole density (arb. units) & Ss
we

Figure 2. Recent results showing characteristic source topographies and waveform morphologies of both the mismatch negativity (MMN) (panels a—c) and aware-
ness-related negativity (ARN) (panels d—f ). (a) Typical source topography of the MMN, with sources in anterolateral portions of human AC. (b) Source waveforms of
Tesponses to standard tones (black), deviant tones (grey) and their subtraction (deviants minus standards, lower panels), clearly revealing the MMN as a prominent
negativity between 100 and 200 ms. (c) Associated amplitude quantifications. (d) Source waveforms for virtual targets, i.e. targets that were absent (grey), detected
and undetected standard tones (solid and transparent blue, respectively), detected and undetected deviant tones (solid and transparent orange, respectively), and
their respective difference waveforms (lower panels). Panel (d) shows both the ARN as a strong, negative-going deflection in response to detected targets as well as
the fact that when embedded in the multitone masker cloud, the MMN was only elicited when the standard stream was detected prior to the occurrence of the
deviant. (e) Corresponding source locations and amplitude quantifications (f). Reproduced from [110].

by attention [117] and perceptual organization [118], and (ii) mechanisms, particularly for added objects, and that change
that generation of the MMN requires perceptual awareness detection may not require perceptual awareness of the object
of the standard stream [110]. The latter study embedded classi- in the first scene [122] (though more recent data suggest that
cal oddball sequences into multitone masker stimuli and had awareness of individual objects can have an effect [123,124]).
listeners indicate their perceptual awareness of the repetitive M/EEG studies of change deafness have consistently
standard sounds; the MMN was evoked only when listeners observed a vertex-negative response between approximately
were aware of the standard stream prior to the onset of the 100 and 200 ms for behaviourally detected changes that is smal-
deviant, but not when the standard stream remained sublim- ler or absent for missed changes [125-127] (but see [123]),
inal. While listeners in that study indicated perceptual similar to findings for detection [23,107], with likely sources
awareness of the standards and not the change per se, previous in AC. However, it remains unclear if this response is associated