hypothesized to be positively correlated with H5N1 out- habitats—may also offer an alternative to paddy, where free-
breaks in poultry. The literature suggests that flooded rice ranging poultry are often prevalent. This segregation effect
paddies on the one hand, and lakes and wetlands on the may be strengthened if the natural habitats are protected, as
other, are both mixing zones in which wild and domesticated the majority of the IBAs in China are. The prohibition of agricul-
birds can come into contact with each other and exchange ture in or near protected lakes and wetlands lowers the

pathogens. We had accordingly expected both to be likelihood of mixing between wild and domesticated birds.


One potential point of interest, or concern, when compar- CDC effectiveness [10,58,80]. Additionally, Chinese public

ing the results from random-effects regression with those health authorities have expanded international collaboration
from fixed-effects regression (aside from the fact that predict- to raise domestic standards, and have, for instance, sent CDC a
or variables were more statistically significant across the staff to receive training from the WHO and the US Center for s
random-effects models), is that the coefficient on rice paddy Disease Control [81]. However, Chinese infectious disease man- a
was significant and positive for the former but negative agement still has several weaknesses, including a lack of training = 2
and insignificant for the latter. This appears counterintuitive, for health workers in poorer areas and a low per capita level of =
but the results are similar to those of Baltagi and Pinnoi [79], funding compared to international standards [81]. Greater S
a panel analysis of the economic output of US states regressed investment in public health infrastructure and management =
on a set of state-specific variables [79]. The authors found the may help mitigate human infections from avian influenza. Ss
same coefficient sign change for the variable public invest- Finally, caveats should be made about the data. ©
ment, and concluded that this was due to the difference As Hogerwerf et al. [32] observe, H5N1 circulation among — =
between the short- and long-run effects of the variable, poultry may be partly undetected, and there is likely tobe = =
with fixed effects capturing the former and random effects under-reporting for both poultry and human infections. This =
capturing the latter. Additionally, the low rho value for may be particularly true for rural areas, where interactions at -