
Figure 1. Odds ratios after:before dams within prawn ranges and comparison areas. Black circles show country-specific odds ratios and their confidence intervals
among the respective dams and watersheds listed on the left. Red diamonds show the overall odds ratios and confidence intervals resulting from a generalized linear
mixed model (with binomial errors) comparing after against before dam building for all dams/watersheds in each respective catchment/watershed category. N’ shows
the total sample size (number of human subjects) for that category and the p value indicates the statistical significance of the test of the hypothesis that the overall
odds ratios (diamonds) differ from unity. The vertical dashed line marks 1: 1 odds ratios. Those points to the right of the dashed line indicate a significant increase
in schistosomiasis after dam building; those to the left indicate a significant decline in schistosomiasis; and those overlapping the vertical dashed line show no
change. De novo indicates a de novo introduction of the parasite in that catchment after the dam, whereby the presence of zero infections before the dam renders
the odds ratio impossible to calculate. Note the log scale. (Online version in colour.)

catchments lost their migratory snail predators (such as river and across the other coastal dams that might provide an
prawns). This association suggests that the presence of alternative explanation for schistosomiasis increases?
migratory prawn predators of snails may limit transmission The fact that schistosomiasis decreased in undammed
of schistosomiasis. (coastal) watersheds makes it unlikely that unmeasured factors
Although we observed that the probable loss of prawns was (unrelated to dams) caused schistosomiasis to systematically
associated with increases in human schistosomiasis, the prawn increase more on the coast than inland. Other possible dam
effect is confounded with other ecological and socio-economic effects — not related to a loss of migratory predators — probably
effects. In the Senegal River Basin, post-dam increases in schis- occurred above dams both inside and outside prawn ranges,
tosomiasis have been anecdotally attributed to a reduction in such as increases in aquatic vegetation, inundation, agricul-
flow and salinity and a concomitant increase in pH in the tural inputs, worker migrations, or water contact. Whether
lower Senegal River Basin [2,43]. Hypothetically, lowered sal- these or other dam-associated ecological changes were system-
inity, due to blocked tidal influence upstream during the dry atically different above the more coastal dams within prawn
season, might have increased the availability of freshwater ranges compared to the more inland dams outside prawn
habitat for snails (because even low salinity levels are detrimen- ranges warrants further exploration.
tal to Biomphalaria and Bulinus spp. survival and reproduction Our study begins to address the lack of historical empha-