
by definition ¢ = 1, while directly transmitted diseases have, by (b) Feedbacks between poverty and disease in coupled
the nature of the close contact required for contagion, ~ — 0. For .
other parasites and pathogens, for example, those that experience environment —human systems
intermediate levels of focal to exogenous transmission, the value Global patterns of poverty and disease have a strong geo-
of g depends on the scale of analysis. graphic signature, indicative of underlying environmental
Figure 2 provides a simple qualitative description of determinants (figure 4) [26,27]. Building on recent advances
common infective agents in tropical regions according to their in the modelling of coupled economic—epidemiological sys-
transmission strategies based on parameters « and ¢. Many tems [11,28], we explore how the framework presented in
pathogens responsible for mortality in developing countries §2a can be integrated with existing models of disease-
have low e and g, such as childhood diseases (measles and driven poverty traps to understand the potential role of
whooping cough), respiratory infections (tuberculosis) or sexu- environmental drivers. This integrated framework is based
ally transmitted diseases (HIV and syphilis). By contrast, for on the intersection of the following empirical facts: (i) econ-
most pathogens responsible for NTDs, environmental trans- omic and environmental conditions are co-determinants of
mission plays an important role (c — 1). The general model NTDs, and (ii) NTDs have well-documented negative effects
described above, although difficult to parametrize in its simplest on economic productivity, primarily through child develop-
form [19,22], can be used to explore conceptual differences in ment, educational attainment and labour productivity
dynamics and control strategies for a wide variety of pathogens [1,27,29-31].
and transmission strategies. A heuristic illustration of such The effect of economic drivers on disease dynamics in a
insights is provided in figure 3, where we contrast the impact particular system can be captured by transforming some
of common strategies of disease control for directly transmitted parameters in equations (2.14,b) to be functions of per capita
diseases (e = 0, p = 0) and ETDs (e = 1, g > 1). income or wealth: ie. Bp = Bp(k), Br = Br(k), Q= Ak), A=
We show that for direct and ETDs with comparable basic A(k); where k is capital, which we define broadly as a stock
reproduction numbers Ro (i.e. number of secondary infections of economic resources used to produce income. For instance,
caused by an infected individual introduced in a susceptible transmission rates (Bp, Bg) and environmental recruitment of