functions for which there is evidence of rRNA participation bound with the same Watson—Crick geometry as cognate S
are (1) mRNA selection; (2) tRNA binding; (3) antibiotic tRNAs by the decoding site [15]. This finding suggests that -
sensitivity /resistance; and (4) subunit association’ [3]. And the low error frequency of tRNA selection is based on the 2
now, 37 years down the road from Steenbock, the list of func- low frequency of keto-enol tautomerization by the RNA S
tional roles for rRNA in translation has expanded to eclipse bases [16,17]. w
virtually all of the basic mechanisms of protein synthesis. In any case, it is clear that ribosomal RNA plays a funda- —'Y
mental role in the mechanism of aminoacyl-tRNA selection. ©
The mechanism involves formation of ‘A-minor’ interactions S
. . [12,18] between the rRNA bases and the minor groove of x
2. Aminoacyl-tRNA selection the codon—anticodon duplex [12]. It appears that cognate
In spite of convincing evidence for functional roles for rRNA, tRNAs may be discriminated primarily on the basis of the
the proteins did not go down easily. This was in large shape of the resulting codon—anticodon duplex, rather than
part due to the fact that bacteria have single copies of their its inherent thermodynamic stability [15,17,19]. A-minor
ribosomal protein genes, but multiple copies of their rRNA interactions are widespread in the ribosome and in the
genes. As a result, mutations in the r-proteins affecting structures of other functional RNAs [18], so are likely to
ribosome function began to appear early on, while functional have been commonplace in an RNA world. Such a simple
mutations in rRNA were not discovered until new genetic mechanism could have arisen, prior to the evolution of the
strategies were developed. Implication of ribosomal proteins ribosome, for monitoring the accuracy of RNA replication,
in the mechanism of aminoacyl-tRNA selection was strongly suggesting that the 30S ribosomal subunit may have evolved
supported by studies of antibiotic-stimulated misincorpora- from an RNA replicase [20].

tion of amino acids. Most notable was the antibiotic
streptomycin, which causes an increase in the translational
error frequency by several orders of magnitude [4]. Mutations
