(figure 3b,c). More recently, we determined the structure of 13 assembly
By contrast, block 2, which was present in the vast majority intermediates that arise upon depletion of the r-protein bL17
of the structures, consisted of elements from both the 5’ and [34]. These structures are highly disparate and allow for the
central domains (figure 3b), as well as helix 36, which forms identification of five folding blocks that are differentially
extensive contacts with the central pseudoknot and links the present across the various structures, consistent with the
3’ major domain to the rest of the structure (electronic sup- individual blocks folding cooperatively and largely indepen-
plementary material, figure S3). Owing to the central dently. Notably, block 2 from these structures contains the
pseudoknot’s proximity to the 5’ and central domains, this central protuberance and we find a high degree of overlap in
‘native occupancy’ analysis may overestimate the presence of structural elements lacking in block 2 and those elements miss-
helix 36, particularly in the lower resolution structures. ing in the aforementioned cofactor depletion structures. This
Regardless, it is interesting to note that none of the isolated overlap could be quantified by calculating the native occupancy
and characterized intermediates consisted exclusively of of each protein or helix and clustering the resulting data matrix
either the 5’ or central domains despite the fact that, according as described for the SSU above (figure 3d). Additionally, the
to in vitro studies, these isolated domains are competent for degree to which different structures are related can be quanti-
folding. This result suggests either that these domains co- fied using their linkage distance, providing an unbiased
fold very rapidly in vivo, or that the individually folded approach to group various structures.
domains have gone unnoticed in current datasets due to This approach revealed that the folding blocks observed
their small size. As single-particle cryo-EM techniques in the bL17-depletion strain intermediates are largely con-
mature, it will be interesting to search for evidence of indepen- served across the full swath of intermediate structures that
dent folding of the 5’ or central domains in intermediates could be analysed. Interestingly, including the additional
isolated in vivo. Finally, block 1 was composed of a subset of factor-depletion structures did reveal a single new block 6,
rRNA helices from the 5’ and central domains as well as the which was present at full occupancy in all non-bL17
early binding proteins uS4, uS15 and bS20. The fact that depletion structures, but was largely absent in the bL17
these elements are located on the periphery of the structure depletion structures. Unsurprisingly, block 6 contained
(figure 2c) suggests that these elements may be incompletely bL17 and bL17-dependent proteins, such as bL32 and bL28.