stalled on non-optimal codons or with truncated mRNA become substrates for the rescue machinery as the cell deems them irreversibly arrested. These rescue events
lead to degradation of the incomplete protein product and of the mRNA.

Pauses on stretches of codons that are decoded slowly, for the Pro codon in the A site [47]. Premature processing of the
example, regulate the transcription of downstream genes in stalled TnaC and SecM complexes by ribosome rescue factors
certain bacterial leader peptides in biosynthetic operons [39]. would interfere with these programmed regulatory mechan-
In a similar manner, non-optimal codons in structural genes isms and needlessly terminate productive protein synthesis.
have been implicated in fine-tuning translational rates in In each of these cases, the presence of aa-tRNA or release fac-
order to favour correct protein folding [40-42]. Nothing tors in the A site precludes the quality control machinery
prevents ribosomes from proceeding when the cognate from recognizing these complexes [47,48].
aa-tRNAs become more available. In these examples, the In TnaC, SecM and other known stalling peptides, proline
mRNA sequence has evolved to encode more information poses a challenge to the ribosome; Pro is both a poor peptidyl
than just the protein sequence, slowing the rate of translation donor and a poor peptidyl acceptor. The fact that proline is a
in a programmed fashion. secondary amine explains its slow kinetics as a peptidyl
The concentration of aa-tRNAs is not the only factor that acceptor (i.e. Pro-tRNA in the A site reacting with the nascent
affects the rate of translation; the sequence of the nascent pep- polypeptide) [49]. The constrained geometry of the cyclic pro-
tide itself also plays a role. If we consider the termination line side chain probably explains its poor reactivity as a
reaction, for example, the final two or three amino acids can peptidyl donor in elongation and peptide release. These
dramatically inhibit peptide release. Short motifs comprised two characteristics of the chemistry of proline combine to
of small, polar residues seem to effectively slow release cataly- make stretches of two or more consecutive prolines difficult
sis [43]; tellingly, threonine is underrepresented at the final for translating ribosomes. It is reasonable to think that all of
codon in bacterial proteomes. Hydrolysis of peptides ending these constraints are part of the equation that determines
in proline also appears to be problematic, especially when the evolution of protein sequences.

another proline or a negatively charged residue is positioned