overshoot the target. That error will generate a backward cor- vermis (blue wavy line). The speed of the spread is proportional
rective saccade, leading to a sequence of macrosaccadic to the feedback velocity, making the vermis a spatial integrator
oscillations (with each saccade followed by an approximately representing the progress of the movement.
normal inter-saccadic interval) [57]. If the overshoot is less The inhibitory wave spreads until it reaches the right side of
than 100%, the sequence of oscillations decreases in amplitude the vermis (red diamond). The pause in the vermis on the right
and stops. If the overshoot is greater than 100%, the sequence side then releases the right fastigial nucleus from inhibition,
increases in amplitude for several saccades. After a few of which then sends a drive signal to the left EBN and IBN (red
these growing saccades, the amplitude begins to decrease lines) and the OPN. We assume that although the right IBN
(for reasons unknown, but possibly central fatigue), creating holds off the left EBN and IBN, the right fastigial nucleus is
a spindle-shaped set of oscillations. strong enough to turn on the left IBN. The left IBN then inhibits
If both fastigial nuclei are lesioned in a monkey, saccades the right EBN and IBN (red line), which chokes off the drive to
become hypermetric in both directions [14,22], like in many the motor nuclei, stopping the saccade. The OPN can be turned
human cerebellar patients. The fact that saccades in these sub- back on by the rSC and the fastigial nucleus.

jects are hypermetric is consistent with our hypothesis that it is
the ipsiversive fastigial nucleus that stops the saccade on target.
However, although saccades overshoot the target, they do

eventually stop. 5. Distributed motor error

What mechanism might then sto pa hypermetric saccade? The evidence that movements require the coordination of parallel
One possibility is that the cSC activity runs down, stopping pathways challenges the model of a feedback loop with a single
the saccade because there is no longer a drive signal to the pre- motor error controller (figure 1). We have shown above (ยง3) that
motor burst neurons. Also, when the cSC runs down, the rSC the saccadic system involves at least two parallel pathways [23],
would be disinhibited, and it could reactivate, exciting the with the saccadic drive to the premotor burst neurons coming