been degraded. ‘gap paradigm’ is not a change in the motor command to
However, there are reasons to doubt the presence of a ‘fix- fixate, but represents the presence or absence of a foveal
ation zone’ in the rostral SC. The anatomical connection from target. Stimulation of the rostral SC delays saccades because
the SC to the omnipause neurons is not consistent with a dis- it increases activity related to the foveal target, perhaps at
tinct ‘fixation zone’—this projection arises from locations out the expense of activity representing the peripheral target,
to 10-15° in the SC map [34,35], which includes 80-90% of and makes it take longer to reach the tipping point for imbal-
the saccades made during natural viewing [36]. Conversely, ance. Conversely, suppression of rostral SC activity results in
neurons across the entire SC are involved in the process of irrepressible saccades to peripheral targets because signals
selecting targets for eye movements, and neurons in the ros- representing the foveal target are weakened; notably, these
tral SC are especially important for the selection of targets irrepressible saccades do not occur in the absence of a com-
near the fovea, even if this involves breaking visual fixation peting peripheral stimulus [43]. Finally, a logical problem
to move the eyes [37-39]. The receptive field and temporal with the ‘fixation zone hypothesis’ is that, because the
properties of neurons in the rostral SC are in fact very similar border between the ‘fixation’ and ‘saccade’ zones must lie
to those elsewhere in the SC, except that these neurons rep- at some location in the SC retinotopic map (typically assumed
resent the central visual field as expected from their to be at approx. 2—3°), it predicts a lower bound on the size of
location within the SC retinotopic map [40]. Even the initial saccades controlled by the SC. By contrast, because the ‘equi-
descriptions of these neurons provided evidence that they librium hypothesis’ depends on the balance of activity across
were not a functionally distinct class of neurons, but were the SC, it provides a mechanism that scales across all saccade
the extension of saccade-related neurons found elsewhere in amplitudes, including microsaccades.
the SC [26]. These findings indicate that the SC on the two The exact direction of gaze during fixation is not deter-
sides of the brain do not contain antagonistic zones for ‘fix- mined by the symmetrical wiring between visual areas and
ation’ versus ‘saccades’, but instead together form a single the SC, but instead relies on bilateral activity in the medio-
continuous map of the visual field in which the population posterior cerebellum (MPC), a brain structure important for
of active neurons represents the locations of potential targets, the adaptive control of gaze accuracy. In the case of orienting
including the one currently fixated [41]. gaze towards a visual target (i.e. bringing a target’s image