
Another unusual property of the BamA ยฃ-barrel may also

influence the folding and/or insertion of nascent OMPs.

6. BamA catalyses insertion of nascent outer- When the structure of N. gonorrhoeae BamA was determined,

eo it showed that strands 81 and B16 were connected by only
membrane protel ns into the outer membrane two hydrogen bonds near the extracellular surface [32], in con-

Structures were determined for full-length BamA from trast with other pairs of strands in the f-barrel that are
Neisseria gonorrhoeae and an N-terminally truncated BamA generally linked by eight or more hydrogen bonds (inset,
from Haemophilus ducreyi (figure 3) [32]. In these organisms igure 3). In fact, most of strand 816 adopts a random coil sec-
as well as in E. coli [33,34], the structure consists of five ondary structure and is tucked inside the 6-barrel lumen.
periplasmic polypeptide translocation-associated (POTRA) Molecular dynamics simulations analysing the stability of the
domains followed by a membrane-inserted ยง-barrel with 16 6-barrel demonstrated that strands B1 and 616 separate com-
antiparallel B-strands. Studies of POTRA-barrel chimeras pletely during a 1s simulation; they also re-associate
have demonstrated that the B-barrel domain is often inter- during the same time period. Simulations were performed at
changeable, while the POTRA domains show more species 340 K or 310 K using a symmetric dimyristoyl-phosphatydyl-
specificity [48]. The 8-barrel is a very unusual OMP, display- ethanolamine (DMPE) lipid bilayer; under these conditions
ing a reduced hydrophobic thickness where strands B1 and the LptDE f-barrel does not open, suggesting greater
616 are joined compared with the opposite side of the 6-barrel instability, or propensity for B-strand separation, for
6-barrel. This feature was observed by using the crystal struc- BamA. Biochemical experiments subsequently confirmed
tures to measure the distances between aromatic residues on that this lateral opening event is required for BamA function
the outside of the barrel [32], by molecular dynamics simu- by engineering pairs of cysteine residues to form a disulfide