surmounting ,_,.. More likely, the lipid rearrangement that experimental method for estimating the electroporation
is required to close the pore—overcoming forces such as barrier. Although oSCR does not image pores directly, its
double-layer repulsion between the headgroups and the ability to probe individual electroporation events occurring
removal of interfacial water as the toroidal walls come together in a bilayer in real time is a valuable tool in probing this = 2
[24,39]—dominates the energetics of this return process. phenomenon. Ss
The reason for our observation of two lifetimes for the s
open and closed states remains to be determined. It would ~
be of interest to examine pore kinetics at lower ionic Data accessibility. Supporting information, including further details of | =
strengths, whereby the reduction of the local electric field at the experimental setup, may be found online. S
the site of a pore [31,32] would be lessened. We speculate Author's contributions. J.T.S and M.L.W. designed the research. J.T.S. per- 2
in this case whether we would no longer observe the short formed the research and analysed the data. J.T.S. and M.LW. wrote S
open lifetime, but retain the short closed lifetime, if indeed Conperina ities We have no competing interests S
the latter is the result of non-conductive defects. The fact : ; w

h b: hi Iso di ses with Funding. M.I.W. is supported by the European Research Council (ERC- ~
that we observe that 71,< also decreases with temperature 2012-StG-106913, CoSMiC); J.TS. is supported by the European

(electronic supplementary material, figure S2b) is consistent Research Council and the Engineering and Physical Sciences 2
with this lifetime being the result of such defects within the Research Council. S

References

1. von Heijne G. 2006 Membrane-protein topology. 10. Gothelf A, Gehl J. 2012 What you always needed to 18. Melikov KC, Frolov VA, Shcherbakov A, Samsonov AV,

Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 7, 909-918. (doi:10.1038/ know about electroporation based DNA vaccines. Chizmadzhev YA, Chernomordik LV. 2001 Voltage-