inherently competitive social environments in which individ- fact that human communities and achievements are many
uals compete with each other to steal food and/or mates. orders of magnitude greater than those of other primates.
Tactical deception [80] became the defining criterion for this However, the evidence they adduce for the claim that popu-
hypothesis, and its frequency does correlate with relative neo- lation size affects innovation rates all derives from modern
cortex volume [81]. However, this explanation does not societies (i.e. post-Neolithic and contemporary societies). By
explain why primates live in social groups: if being exploited contrast, the evidence that brains evolved for innovativeness
by group members is what happens when you live in a before the Neolithic is not impressive: tool manufacture has
group, why would anyone choose to reside in bonded social very long periods of stasis in the archaeological record and
groups [8]. Living in casual herds of indeterminate size does not correlate well with the evolution of human cranial
should be sufficient to allow individuals to exploit each other capacity [82,83]. That said, cultural icons and their trans-
in the way envisaged by the MIH. Species, like artiodactyls, mission do play a singularly important role in social bonding
that regularly form aggregations on rich pastures should exhi- at both the dyadic and the communal levels in humans ([84];
bit Machiavellian behaviour and have large brains. But, in fact, see also [85-90]), which would perhaps make this a version
they do not. Perhaps the real issue is that Machiavellian behav- of the SBH (see below) where culture becomes part of the

iour, being intrinsically competitive, is inherently socially bonding process.

destructive and thus likely to lead to the fragmentation of CIH has been extended to include cooperative breeding
groups [81] unless some very significant counter-selection [91,92] on the grounds that cooperative breeding imposes
pressure exists to force animals to stay together despite their coordination and investment challenges, as well as the poten-
Machiavellian behaviour. tial to extend development in a way that might facilitate
In sum, MIH might explain how primate sociality is differ- social learning. The anatomical evidence to support this
ent from that of all other mammals, but offers no explanation claim is, however, mixed. Even though obligately monog-
as to why this should be so. Indeed, one might argue that amous species (e.g. indrids, cebids and hylobatids) do have
Machiavellian behaviour is more likely to be a consequence larger brains than we might expect for their group size