included in the original path analysis of [6]. Shaded boxes indicate major environmental drivers. (b) Path model of Navarette et al. [52]. Lines indicate phylo-
genetically controlled statistically significant relationships. Technical intelligence here refers to a combination of foraging innovations and extractive foraging. In
some (but not all) models, social learning correlates with social group size (dashed line). Dashed boxes enclose variables that covary together. The graph is redrawn
to a similar orientation to that in (a).

individuals to coordinate their activity schedules if they responses (a correlate of neocortex volume, and Brodman
want to be part of the group. Failure to do so will result in area 10 in particular [69,106]) is likely to be crucial in this con-
the group very quickly disintegrating as individual animals text. These costs are not trivial, because very few species have
drift apart. This is a much more serious problem than many significant quantities of free (i.e. uncommitted) time [19].

appreciate. In ungulates, herds rapidly disintegrate because We have highlighted the fact that energy demand is limit-
the activity schedules of different individuals do not coin- ing for brain evolution. However, it is also limiting for
cide [151-153]. Sex differences in energy demand, and hence another important reason, namely the fact that both foraging
required feeding time, owing to differential reproductive costs and social bonding are time consuming: though not widely
or differences in body mass are a particular problem: when appreciated, large-bodied mammals (and diurnal primates,
some individuals need to continue feeding or move to new in particular) may be more limited by time than by energy
feeding sites but others want to rest, someone has to give way [19]. As a result, time is a major determinant of anthropoid

if the group is to stay together. The ability to inhibit prepotent biogeography [19,71,73,154-156]. Owing to the need to


Table 1. Comparison of the main hypotheses for brain evolution against the five key explanatory criteria.

hypothesis can explain*
