stable laboratory conditions—natural conditions might

3. The molecular circadian clockwork is reveal the SCN’s role as less prominent. SCN lesions in
. rodents lead to a loss of circadian rhythmicity in physiology
expressed in almost all cells and behaviour in constant environments, a finding that first
A key feature of circadian rhythms is that they are en- led to the (now outdated) title of ‘master clock’ for the SCN
dogenously driven with a period close to 24h in constant [24-26]. However, housing animals in more natural rhythmic
conditions. To a large extent, these rhythms are considered environments, in which factors such as light-level, food
to be generated by cellular molecular oscillators, which are abundance, social cues, ambient temperature, or exposure to
observed in almost every nucleated cell of the body. These rewarding or fearful experiences show daily variation, can
oscillators drive widespread temporal gene expression pat- reinstate rhythms in behaviour and physiology in SCN-
terns that are tissue specific [12], forming the foundation of lesioned individuals [8,27,28]. These rhythmic phenotypes in
rhythmic physiology and behaviour. In mammals, this clock- SCN lesioned animals are testimony to the fact that circadian
work consists of two interlocking transcription—translation responses that animals display can (in part) be independent of
feedback loops in which proteins serve as negative feedback SCN timing, and that rhythmicity in physiology and behav-
on their own RNA transcription. This molecular oscillator can iour may also be a direct response to environmental cues
explain the rhythmic expression of numerous tissue-specific (masking [29], also see [30]) or may even trigger extra-SCN
genes through rhythmic interactions with the E-Box, D-Box, circadian oscillators to drive rhythmicity in the body [8,31].
and Rev response elements (RREs) in the promotor regions Rhythmicity in peripheral organs therefore does not require
of many genes throughout the genome [13]. However, this an intact SCN, and instead, it seems more appropriate
molecular oscillator can also have more subtle effects on to denote the SCN as an entity which provides the body
downstream gene expression, for example through opening and brain with an internal representation of the external
up the chromatin structure, which ‘gates’ the ability of circa- light-dark cycle, rather than a ‘master’ clock.

dian transcription factors to bind to the promotor region of