the plasticity model of Pfister & Gerstner [27], combined presumably also work with other RCPs.
with negative feedback via either a sliding threshold or Finally, these findings are in good empirical agreement
synaptic scaling. The critical timescale 7.,i, was determined with many existing simulation studies of plastic network
as the value 7, (equation (3.2)) above which a recurrent models (figure 1)—in each of these, a rapid homeostatic
neural network, initially tuned to a low-activity asynchron- control mechanism on a timescale of seconds to minutes
ous state [91,92], generates runaway activity. Using was implemented to maintain stability [14,19,21,22,27,63,94].
simulations and mean field theory, Teri, was found to be We can summarize our insights as follows. The fact that
of the order of seconds to minutes. Thus, the negative Hebbian plasticity has to be appropriately constrained
feedback needs to be too rapid to be linked to the through stabilizing mechanisms to avoid runaway activity
known experiments of homeostatic synaptic plasticity is well known. Classic models such as Oja’s rule or the
reviewed in figure 1. BCM model, for example, explicitly include appropriate
Several remarks are in order. First, although signatures of mechanisms based on the postsynaptic firing rate as an indi-
the stereotypical activity dependence of the BCM model cator and driver of stabilizing processes. However, the fact
(figure 3a) are also present in STDP data and captured by that these processes have to be rapid in absolute terms only
many modern plasticity models [27,61-63,65,93], the exist- becomes apparent when units of time are fixed to a biologi-
ence of a sliding threshold mechanisms is still a topic of cally meaningful timescale. Moreover, RCPs need to be
ongoing debate. However, we have shown analytically, and even more rapid in large recurrent network models, because
confirmed in simulations, that the instability that arises a large number of plastic synapses tend to amplify instabil-
through slow feedback in the BCM model is virtually identi- ities unless the learning rate is scaled with the inverse
cal to the situation in which the sliding threshold in equation number of synapses. Accumulating evidence suggests that
(3.3) is replaced by a fixed threshold and instead synaptic biological forms of LTP and LTD have to be accompanied
scaling is added to the model [26]. Additionally, the analysis by RCPs which operate on timescales of seconds to minutes
suggests that similar temporal requirements hold for an entire and are thus orders of magnitude faster than most known
family of plasticity models with an explicit rate dependence forms of homeostatic plasticity (cf. figure 1). This answers
(see Yger & Gilson [90] for a review). Note, however, the questions as to why RCPs are needed and gives us first