INO80 subunits were hypersensitive to physical DNA ing on the lesion, Rad51-dependent strand invasion is often ‘©
damage such as that provoked by ultraviolet (UV) and ionizing necessary for fork restart [62,63]. Clearly, the responses of a 5
radiation (IR), or MMS and HU, which generate replication replication fork to MMS versus HU are very different, yet =
stress through different pathways [48]. IR creates single- and INO80 appears to be involved in both. On acute fork arrest by S
double-strand breaks (DSBs) on the DNA template, whereas HU, the general function of INO80 appears to be downstream -
UV treatment generates thymidine dimers, which secondarily of fork maintenance, given that arp8A and arp5A strains do not 2
form breaks and ssDNA during the repair process [49]. exhibit fork collapse in response to HU [55,56]. Unlike the S
INO80 is recruited rapidly to a specific HO-induced DSB in situation with HU, the MMS-induced switch to translesion syn- w
yeast [12,50], providing evidence that this remodeller acts thesis is mediated through ubiquitinylation of the proliferating — 'Y
directly at sites of DSBs. In this case, INO80 facilitates distinct clamp nuclear antigen (PCNA) by the Rad6-Rad18 complex ©
steps in the subsequent repair process [51]. [64]. In this context, an ATPase-dead ino80 mutant failed to Ss
The role of INO80 at stalled or damaged replication forks recruit Rad18 to an MMS-stalled replisome, thus preventing =
was suggested by the fact that strains lacking the remodeller proper ubiquitinylation of PCNA [56]. The downstream recruit-
function were very sensitive to HU, a potent inhibitor of the ment of the Rad51-dependent recombination machinery was
ribonucleotide reductase (RNR), which catalyses the rate- also compromised at MMS-stalled forks [56].
limiting step in the de novo deoxyribonucleotides (dNTP) In the presence of HU, the loss of INO80 led to a delayed
biosynthesis pathway. HU treatment leads to a drop in intra- resumption of fork elongation after removal of the drug, and
cellular dNTP levels, without completely exhausting the an increase in stable Mecl-Ddc2 and Rad52 foci in G2-phase,
pools [52]. This, in turn, reduces the kinetics of S-phase by indicating a delayed resumption for fork progression. This
slowing fork speed and origin firing [53]. Whereas wild-type could mean that either INO80 is needed to remove complexes
cells are able to cope with relatively high levels of replication that block fork progression, or it could help recruit essential
stress, mutants of the replication machinery, the DNA replica- factors for repair and recovery (figure 1b).
tion checkpoint, or in replication fork restart pathways are Further elucidation of INO80 function at replication forks
hypersensitive to replication stress [10,54]. Interestingly, repli- came from in vitro studies in which the Diffley and Remus
cation-stress-induced lethality of ino80 mutants does not stem laboratories successfully reconstituted efficient DNA replica-