relationship between the British and some of the senior staff was on the line. Others said that where people showed lea-
in the NERC. dership, the British tucked in behind them and that the aim

was always to get the Sierra Leoneans to run the NERC,
but that it was sometimes necessary to step in.

(d) Tensions between the MOHS and NERC However, many UK interviewees acknowledged that the
Several interviewees said a major friction in the response was British could have supported the NERC more once the out-
between the NERC and the leadership in the MOHS, adding break began to decline. One interviewee said:
that senior MOHS staff were embittered over their disenfranch- ‘We had operational decisions to make and the NERC wasn’t ina
isement, did not engage as much as they should have early on state in that early period. People would forgive us for the initial
and then started to ‘land grab’ as the response started to tail off. period because everyone understood what a mess it was. The bit
that annoys people is the fact that once the NERC was estab-
In first week of November (2014), none of the Ministry people lished, we did not lean into it in a way that would allow it to
would attend the NERC meetings. There were empty seats for succeed. Maybe that parallel system got a bit entrenched;
two or three weeks, until the President ordered them to go. I think we got it to a point in December (2014) where we
Then they came, but wouldn’t engage. This went on for months. should have been doing a lot more empowering of the Sierra
Another interviewee said the MOHS were frequently a stum- Leoneans.’
bling block in the first month or so of the NERC’s life, for instance, Another source said the dynamic between the British and the
shutting hospitals, removing equipment or sacking staff. A UK Sierra Leoneans in the NERC was largely a function of the

military source said: context at any given time.


At the beginning, the UK were very scared, not trusting the gov- Days later, the President ordered all Ebola functions in the | 8 |