Queensland census (details of the data can be found in the
electronic supplementary material for this paper).

In total we have data from 91 historical counties, of which
31, all in the present-day states of NSW and Tasmania,
housed convicts. Free migration to all 91 counties resulted


in considerable variation in population sex ratios, even in you with your relationship with your partner?’. Answers | 3 |

those 60 counties where no convicts were assigned. A range from 0 (completely dissatisfied) to 10 (completely satis-
threat to causal identification of the effect of sex ratios in fied). The sample average is 8.30, with women on average a
any study consists in the fact that people usually express less satisfied in their relationship than men (difference of s
some degree of choice where to live, so that population sex —0.24, t= 10.58, d.f. = 30 787). Overall satisfaction is cap- a
ratios would be driven endogenously by some factors that tured by the question: ‘How satisfied are you with your = 2
could also influence the outcomes we are interested in. In life?’, with the same range of answers. The sample average S
an historic study like ours, factors influencing where people is 7.91, with women more satisfied than men (difference of =
chose to settle historically might still influence outcomes 0.07, t = 5.00, d.f. = 48 296). =
today. This potential problem concerns only free people in Because a subset of HILDA also contains responses by “>
our study, however, and not convicts, who were not free to both partners in a relationship (married people as well as ‘©
move. We employ several methods to deal with this problem. people in long-term or de facto relationships), we are able — =
First of all, we choose to rely on the first census, to obtain the to construct two additional measures of marital satisfaction: =
earliest possible measure of the population sex ratio and of its the marital satisfaction sum and the marital satisfaction 5
exogenous component, which came from convict assignment. gap. In line with the interpretation that the self-declared -
The extent of free migration to Australia was limited until happiness of spouses is an indicator of the quality of their 2