compared to birds, who have to compete for a space in the summary, the evolution of cooperative breeding in birds and a
nest to lay an egg [69]. other taxa is perhaps driven by a complex interplay between s
The biased sex ratio of helpers is not always directly biases in costs of dispersal, costs and benefits of helping and a
related to ASR bias and a link between them might not be other sex-biased demographic factors that may cause one sex = 2
causative, for example, because helper sex ratio may be deter- to become limited. 3
mined by biased offspring sex ratio, or be due to sex-specific Our analyses are correlative in nature and the studies =
differences in ultimate benefits of helping. First, in some included in this review were non-experimental, and it is =
species, males as well as females are constrained by indepen- therefore difficult to disentangle cause and consequence. The ‘=
dent breeding, resulting in groups with male and female importance of ASR for cooperative breeding should therefore ‘©
helpers, and, in others, help may be independent of ASR be further investigated by controlling for benefits such as 5
bias. For example, in long-tailed tits (Aegithalos caudatus) the kin selection, nepotism and environmental factors that drive =
population sex ratio is at parity, but nonetheless there is a selection on delayed dispersal and cooperation. The role of =
strong tendency for helpers to be males (84%; [70]). The fact ASR in cooperation can best be investigated in facultative coop- -
that in this species mainly males help nearby breeders after eratively breeding species (not for cooperatively breeding 2
their own brood fails suggests that other factors may explain species with redirected care or species with very strong habitat S
sex-biased helping in this, but potentially also in other species saturation), and in species in which the benefits of staying and w
(for example, limited dispersal and kin-clustering may cause helping do not greatly differ between males and females. In — 'Y
males to easily direct help to relatives). Second, our analyses order to demonstrate causal relationships between ASR and = &
show that across birds (in both cooperatively and non-coop- cooperative breeding, it is necessary to carry out experimental s
eratively breeding species) neither hatching nor fledging sex manipulations of ASR [25,32]. Studies on cooperatively breed- = ©
ratios predict ASR, and for cooperatively breeding species ing species that did manipulate ASR at the population level
hatching sex ratios neither predict ASR nor helping sex directly and investigated the responses in terms of cooperative
ratios (cf. [71]), suggesting that ASR bias is not caused by care of individuals to altered ASR have not been conducted in
adaptive sex allocation in cooperative breeders. Third, differen- the wild. If supported by follow-up studies, the ‘ASR-
tial benefits of delayed dispersal may drive sex-biased helping cooperation hypothesis’ would have important implications