individual behaviour based on group-level data. For and parenting behaviours. It is therefore important to test
example, a recent study reported an association between how an individual’s characteristics interact with the pressures
higher homicide rates and female-biased sex ratios at the imposed by the local sex ratio, and to consider behaviours of
county-level in the US [14], which might imply that men both individuals who are seeking mates and those who are in
respond to partner surplus, not partner scarcity, with more established pair-bonds, as we do in this study.
violence. However, this methodology does not shed light Lastly, research on the effects of the ASR has thus far
on how the ASR affects individual strategies. While mapping placed greater emphasis on the behavioural responses of
population-level patterns can sometimes be useful, if the males than those of females. In the human literature, this
research question concerns individual strategies as responses male-centric view might be linked to the belief that it is the
to the ASR, the outcome variable too should be measured at undesirable behaviours of men as a response to mate scarcity
this level (see [20] for further discussion). that contribute to societal problems. On an ultimate level, this

A third contributor to the lack of clarity in the literature is might be related to the fact that in humans—as in all other
that individual variability in response to partner availability mammals—maternal care is obligate through gestation and
is under-studied and under-appreciated. Which strategy to lactation, reducing women’s potential flexibility in sex role-
pursue when attempting to attract a prospective mate, or related behaviours [27]. However, it is incorrect to assume

the relative pay-offs from staying in a pair-bond versus that females do not exercise flexibility in mating-related


Table 1. Ranges of the ward-level adult sex ratio in 2001 (age 16-39 years) expressed as proportion of males (males/total population), and as adult sex ratio El
(men/women), by quartiles.

a
1st quartile 2nd quartile 3rd quartile 4th quartile g