
The situation is more complicated for solitary species, associated mortality. In addition, female interests also
which lack obvious social boundaries, even though they influence immigration decisions [121-123], making sexual
sometimes cluster into matrilineal kin clusters in neighbour- conflict over group composition an interesting demographic
hoods [102-104]. Here, it might be most practical to work aspect of the more general conflict between the sexes. Several
with counts or long-term averages obtained from (repeated) studies indicate that the group sex ratio is indeed a good
sampling of a defined study area. Genetic typing based on predictor of dispersal decisions in primates. Based on the
non-invasively collected samples (e.g. faeces or hair) may expected level of male reproductive skew, males in high-
also provide information about elusive individuals, and skew populations tend to target groups based on qualities of
cohort-based survival models may be useful in certain cases the dominant male(s), whereas in species with lower male
to estimate ASR from the stable age distribution. The accu- reproductive skew males tended to immigrate into groups
racy of ASR estimates in all primates, irrespective of their with either fewer rivals or more sexually active females
social organization, is further complicated by the fact that [124,125]. Species with female or bisexual dispersal may be
only long-term studies of known individuals have sufficient responding primarily to other factors, such as the risk of infan-
information about age and maturation schedules to classify ticide [126], also suggesting that the local SSR is an important
individuals as adults. This problem is particularly acute in proximate determinant of behavioural strategies.

species with sexual bimaturism, where males may be sperma-
togenic for years before they achieve the adult phenotype

[105], but subtler developmental sex differences are wide- (b) Adult sex ratio and paternal care

spread across primates [106]. Empirical studies of ASR Primate males can exhibit two major types of paternal care

variation should therefore be very explicit about how the [127,128]. Direct beneficial interactions with dependent infants