several models to maximize their protection
multiple predators imperfect mimics face selection to dupe generalist predators while adaptive peak at imperfect mimicry
avoiding specialist predators
kin selection while individual selection favours perfect mimicry, imperfect mimicry adaptive peak at imperfect mimicry
can be selected if it better protects others with the same trait
character displacement competition displaces phenotypic optimum away from perfect adaptive peak at imperfect mimicry
mimicry
excellent survey. Instead, we wish to advocate an additional, relaxed selection in which the imperfect mimic phenotype
information-centred, explanation for the evolution and main- fares just as well as the perfect mimic.
tenance of imperfect mimicry that has been alluded to in a Note that we are not arguing that predators are incapable
variety of contexts in the literature (e.g. [7,11-14]) but not of learning to recognize and employ discriminative cues—
systematically considered (see §3). As our opening quotation indeed, given the right incentive and sufficient opportunity,
illustrates, despite the fact that predators are regularly faced it is likely that predators can successfully solve even the
with the decision to attack or reject potential mimics, the con- most complex of discriminatory tasks, which will in turn
sequences of attacking such prey items are rarely if ever select for very close mimicry (§4). However, in many cases
entirely certain to the decision maker. Even when mimics predators will need to learn from their mistakes, and attack-
and models can be readily discriminated based on their ing an unprofitable prey item can sometimes simply be too
appearance, the receiver has to first learn what traits to pay costly to justify further exploration. Identifying appropriate
attention to (§3a). We argue that when learning to recognize discriminative rules will be particularly challenging when
associations, predators will initially seek to adopt simple the phenotypic diversity of profitable and unprofitable prey
rules for discriminating mimics from models (such as avoid phenotypes is high [12] (see §3c), in which case, predators
yellow prey), just as simple hypotheses are favoured over may do better by exploiting their basic knowledge, rather
more complex ones in statistical model selection (§3b). than investing more in fine-scale exploration [15]. This will
Whether predators move on to adopting more complex leave the predator employing relatively crude rules of
discriminative rules (such as avoid yellow prey, but only thumb to discriminate mimics and models which can allow