figures S1 and S2) and the intra- or peri-rhabdomal filters of with the obvious light-yellow/cream-coloured markings and = =
stomatopod crustaceans and butterflies [12,13]. It may be no patterns on the body, perhaps suggesting that it is more prob- S
coincidence that there are examples of apparent fluorescent ably a by-product of the pigment and not visually important -
signals in all these groups although long-pass spectral tuning (figures 1 and 2). Notably, in the adult, however (figure 2), 2
has other potential functions [9]. these markings are specifically shown in behavioural contexts S
In many cases, the fluorescence comes from a patch on lending support to the functional case. The budgerigar is an w
the side of an opaque object, for example the lateral surface interesting intermediate where some of the yellow plumage — 'Y
of a fish or a bird feather. Although here the fluorophore contains fluorescence and some does not, yet the fluorescent ©
cannot absorb light from all directions, as was true for the areas are specifically shown in conspecific interactions [7]. Ss
spherical object, it still catches enough of the down-welling a
light to be several times brighter than the background light. Lue .
However, a diffusely reflecting white patch does this just as (b) What are the excitation and emission wavele gth
well. In fact, in most cases, a highly reflective white patch is ranges of the compound/tissue?
brighter than a fluorescent patch, simply because of the UV is not the only excitation range, and relatively narrow-
poorer conversion efficiency of a fluorophore [3]. The colour band blue or green light may yield fluorescence ranging from
contrast of an orange fluorescent object such as a coral can yellow to red [16]. Knowing excitation and emission spectra
seem unnaturally bright due to both its contrast against a is useful in determining whether the fluorescence may be
dull green benthos and particularly at depths where other visually relevant [17,18]. Consider the mantis shrimp and
long-wavelength colours have been neutered by selective budgerigar yellow fluorescence, one excited maximally at
absorption of water (figure 2 and electronic supplementary 350 nm and the other at 450 nm. Figure 2 shows examples of
material, figure S2). excitation and emissions of mantis shrimp carapace and bud-
These considerations lead to several predictions. First, gerigar feathers measured in a Hitachi F-2000 fluorescence
fluorescent pigments will have absorption spectra that can spectrophotometer, along with other spectral features of their
best take advantage of dominant wavelengths of the illumi- environment. Knowing these parameters, visual modelling,
nation—for example blue in the open ocean. Second, the can be used to determine whether the fluorescence is visually