The lack of consensus about culturing conditions that allow (figure 1). By day 3 after fusion, XIST was delocalized in
stable propagation of human pluripotent cells with two the majority (greater than 50%) of heterokaryons and
active X chromosomes and difficulties in tracking rare repro- hybrids, whereas X-linked bi-allelic expression was only
grammed cells made iPS reprogramming unsuitable for detected in a subset of cells (30%) suggesting that loss of
studying the reversal of X inactivation in human. As an XIST is necessary but insufficient for Xi gene reactivation.
alternative, we used cell fusion between human female fibro- Conversely, XACT RNA was not detected until day 6 and it
blasts and mouse ES cells to transiently reprogramme the was confined to a very restricted minority of hybrids (less
somatic nucleus and study the reactivation of the human than 1%) in which it showed no preferential association
Xi. This system allowed us to analyse early reprogramming with the Xa or both X chromosomes. This suggests that
events that occur in the absence of, or immediately following, XACT might be dispensable for XIST delocalization and Xi
cell division and therefore are much less likely to be depend- gene reactivation during pluripotent reprogramming. It was
ent upon cell culture conditions [68]. Human pluripotency recently shown that XACT coats the Xi ahead of XIST delocal-
genes are in fact rapidly re-expressed 1-2 days after cell ization in human ESCs during erosion or conversion from a
fusion when the majority of cells are pre-mitotic heterokary- XaXi primed to XaXa naive state [33]. Altogether, these

ons that precede nuclear fusion and hybrid formation. results suggest that XACT might help to stabilize X-linked


gene expression in human pluripotent cells but is not fully

active early during reprogramming. As XACT was not = 107 hE
detected in heterokaryons, XACT re-expression may require 8 osd a
several cell divisions or be dependent upon factors that are 5 ° s
induced late in reprogramming. Interestingly, as XIST is delo- = 06 4 a
calized independently of XACT in cell fusion-mediated % 044 ° 2.