conformation of chromosomes in the nucleus [31,32]. With
this protocol, formaldehyde cross-linking and proximity liga-
tion is followed by restriction endonuclease digestion to
produce a 3C library of protein-mediated DNA-DNA inter-
actions within an ensemble of cells. The presence of hybrid
sequences representing interactions can then be assayed


using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers for Results based on Hi-C data published by Dixon ef al. [39] con-

sequences representing loci of putative interaction. The currently with the aforementioned paper by Nora et al. [30]
advent of massively parallel or high-throughput DNA showed that TADs were not specific to the region around
sequencing (HTS), in conjunction with the availability of Xist/ XIST, but were, in fact, a conserved hallmark of chroma-
genomic assemblies for many organisms, has revolutionized tin structure and observed to occur along all chromosomes,
the ability of researchers to interrogate biological structure both in mouse and human. It should also be noted that the
and function, allowing for this to be done on a genome- size of TADs is similar to that of interconnected chromosomal
wide scale, with many protocols having been developed to regions previously described as chromatin domain clusters
leverage this paradigm-shifting technology [33]. 4C-seq (Cir- (CDCs) based on observations made using microscopy
cular 3C coupled to HTS) adds a round of digestion and studies, although no formal correspondence has been
ligation to the 3C protocol, which results in the generation shown to exist between TADs and CDCs [40,41].
of a library of circular ligation products that theoretically rep- Hi-C libraries were originally prepared using genomic = -5
resent DNA-DNA contacts with a particular locus of interest material liberated from nuclei, but more recently the protocol =
(the bait or viewpoint) within the population of cells [34]. The has been applied to intact nuclei (in situ Hi-C) with the =
DNA fragments representing the regions that interact with assumption that this would capture the chromosomal inter- -
the viewpoint can be amplified from the hybrid DNA library actions more faithfully. By sequencing in situ Hi-C libraries 2