been proposed to contribute to the polyphyletic evolution with the BS of certain Cy species, linear electron transport — 'Y
of Cy photosynthesis [24]. from photosystem II to photosystem I is reduced in these ©

Gene duplication followed by selection or genetic drift are veinal cells [53]. Thus, BS cells around veins of C3 plants are s
considered important sources for the appearance of new photosynthetic, but they also contain multiple characteristics = &
traits [25]. After duplication, most redundant genes tend to more commonly associated with the Cy pathway.

be lost as they do not reach sufficient frequencies to become
fixed in a population [26,27]. However, those genes that are

retained can acquire new functions (neofunctionalization) or 4. The ancestral role of G proteins in G plants

mutate to control more than one function (subfunction- The fact that core Cy enzymes are present in C3 species meant
alization). Mechanistically, either can occur via changes in that they did not need to evolve de novo and so likely facili-
cis-regulatory control or through alterations to coding regions tated the recurrent evolution of the Cy pathway across land
resulting in the production of new function [25,28—31]. Gene plants. The role of these proteins in C3 species prior to their
duplications may therefore have occurred prior to the appear- recruitment into Cy photosynthesis has been addressed
ance of the C, pathway and facilitated its evolution [2,32]. recently [18,54]. We therefore next focus on discussing how
However, until recently the lack of genome sequences for groups of C4 proteins could have been recruited from
closely related C3 and C4 species precluded accurate assess- pre-existing metabolic networks occurring in C3 species.

ments of these phenomena, and so evidence for gene Gluconeogenesis is fundamental to all life, and in plants
duplication followed by neofunctionalization playing a is particularly important in allowing conversion of storage
major role in the evolution of core Cy genes was lacking lipids and proteins into sugars during germination and seed-
[33-35]. Subsequently, approaches that accurately localized ling establishment. Traditionally, it was considered that a