of the lumenal compartment is quite high (8 ~ 0.03 M per pH) (figure 3b.1—b.2) at the expense of Ay (see discussion in
[60], so that the same single turnover flash should produce a [8,34]). As illustrated in figure 2c and simulated in
very small change in lumen pH (approx. 0.001 units; electronic figure 3b.1, ion fluxes cannot completely dissipate Ay because
supplementary material, figure S1a). Changing the pH from 7 to the resulting counter-ion gradient will eventually prevent
6 would require the deposition of 0.03 M of protons into the further movements, and the extent to which Ay is dissipated
lumen (compared with approx. 10~°M in the absence of will thus depend, in part, on the starting concentrations of
lumen buffering groups). these ions in the stroma and lumen as well as the presence of
These basic biophysical properties explain, in large part, other ion transporters and proton buffers (see discussion
why in early times (typically tens of seconds [4,34]) after in [34,50]). The simulation in figure 3b.1-b.5 began with
illumination, pmf is predominantly composed of Ay. As illus- stromal and lumenal K* concentration of 40 mM, and resulted
trated in figure 2a, and in the simulations in figure 3a.1-a.5, in Ay: ApH of about 1: 2 in the light. It is also clear from these
in a simple thylakoid membrane with no counter-ion chan- simulations that, even in this simplified situation, Af: ApH can
nels, pmf remains predominantly as Ay indefinitely, because change with conditions, as is evident by the fact that Ay: ApH
Aw by itself is sufficient to force protons deposited in the increases as a result of the build-up of counter-ion gradients at
lumen back out through the ATP synthase, resulting in only higher pinf (see electronic electronic supplementary material,,
small net changes in lumen pH. This situation is the predomi- Jupyter notebook in figure S1). The simulations in column C
nant mode of action for mitochondrial and plasma membrane will be discussed below.
ATP synthase activity (reviewed in [61]) and likely allows Inany case, allowing counter-ion flow results in dissipation
pH-sensitive biochemical processes occurring in the internal of As (figure 3b.1), the build-up of ApH that acidifies the lumen
spaces to proceed unhampered by large changes in proton (figure 3.2) and activates qg (figure 3b.3), which decreases the
concentrations. As shown in the simulation, the continuous fraction of reduced Qa (figure 3b.4). The combined effect of
presence of high Ay (figure 3a.1) leads to destabilization of these changes is a decrease in 'O» production when compared
the PSII charge pairs, while the lack of ApH (figure 3a.2) pre- to the case with no counter-ion fluxes (figures 3b.4 and b.5),
vents the formation of qgz (figure 32.3), resulting in but at the expense of linear electron flow (LEF) (figure 3b.5).
accumulation of reduced Qy (figure 34.4). The combination From the above, we can conclude that the basic properties