from genome sequencing [12]. Undoubtedly, the origin of this oil bodies. The mechanism involved in oil body formation ©
redundancy is the evolutionary history of diatom plastids by has attracted attention because these oil bodies could facilitate s
a eukaryote—eukaryote endosymbiosis, a process that implies the harvesting of biofuel. The review by Maeda et al. [19] &
temporary redundancy of functionally complete eukaryotic describes the recent progress in studies of the structure and
genomes. During the establishment of the plastids, this redun- properties of diatom oil bodies.
dancy was partially reduced via gene losses, and was The papers published in this thematic issue summarize the
partially retained via gene transfer to the nucleus of the respect- considerable attention that has been paid to diatom carbon
ive host cell. These gene transfers required re-assignment of metabolism in recent years. Altogether, the amazing acclim-
intracellular targeting signals, a process that simultaneously ation and adaptation capacity of diatoms to diverse
altered the intracellular distribution of metabolic enzymes com- environmental conditions, their incredible evolutionary
pared to the ancestral cells. Genome annotation, the correct history and their unique metabolism, demonstrate the
assignment of the gene products and the prediction of putative enormous potential of diatoms for biotechnology. The devel-
function, strongly depends on the correct prediction of the opment of this field is even accelerating thanks to the fact
intracellular targeting of a gene product. Understanding that diatoms are genetically amenable. Huang & Daboussi
the carbon metabolism relies on understanding the targeting [20] here provide an overview of recent advances in methods
systems for organelle import, which are partially different to for genetic engineering of diatoms, from the development of
those in land plants. The review by Gruber & Kroth [13] gene expression cassettes and gene delivery methods, to cut-
describes methods of predicting intracellular enzyme locations, ting-edge genome-editing technologies. The popularization
highlights findings of metabolic peculiarities in diatoms and of these techniques will be helpful to both basic and applied
presents genome-enabled approaches to study their metab- research. Light often is strongly attenuated in photobioreactors
olism. An example of the potential of these methods when the cell cultures become dense, and obtaining biomass
is provided in the paper by Pan et al. [14]. In their study, efficiently often is a limiting step in classical biotechnological
propionyl-CoA carboxylase RNAi silenced strains and 3-hydro- processes that are based on photoautotrophic organisms.
xyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase overexpression strains have been This difficulty can be overcome by using taxons that are able
constructed to elucidate the isoleucine degradation pathway to grow heterotrophically or mixotrophically. However, very