300 — 30 —_ 59+2 38 +2
300 — 1000 —_ 38 +4 28+1
the period of investigations, reflecting the need to harvest for this gene under LL and HL compared with ML, especially
more light when the number of cells was increasing. This is after 6 days, confirms that the diatoms were grown under
corroborated by the decrease of the Chl a/Chl c ratio and stress conditions. At the end of the period studied, the level
the increase of total carotenoids/Chl a ratio, two proxies of pigments is similar to that found in diatoms grown
reflecting the size of the light-harvesting antenna [40-42] under ML (see electronic supplementary material, Data
(see electronic supplementary material, Data SD3) and conse- SD3). Photosynthesis was increased, while keeping respir-
quent development of more thylakoid membranes [43]. While ation unchanged (see electronic supplementary material,
not studied, the carotenoid composition may have been Data SD4 and Data SD5). Altogether, these results are in
modified differently under the photon flux densities used line with earlier reports [9,50,51] and confirm that growth
here [44]. For instance, only very high photon flux densities rate is dependent upon the daily light dose received by the
trigger the synthesis of the xanthophyll cycle violaxanthin— microalgae [3]. Despite the fact that the cells had more pho-
antheraxanthin—zeaxanthin carotenoids [45]. Quantitatively, tons at their disposal under HL conditions, the cultures did
the variations were the most intense in the cells shifted to not produce more biomass than under ML (figure 1). The
LL (see electronic supplementary material, Data SD3), indi- estimation of the C consumed by the culture indicated that
cating that these cells were severely deficient in photons. the stationary phase under HL was also due to the reduction
Accordingly, the photosynthetic activity remained weak. To of carbon availability as more than 70% had been used
sustain the cell with reductants and energy, the respiratory (table 1). The management of light energy by the photosyn-
activity was increased indicating the use of a suitable intra- thetic apparatus can be studied in vivo through recording
cellular carbon pool as suggested in Post et al. [46] (see the variations of the chlorophyll fluorescence yield during
electronic supplementary material, Data SD4 and Data and after an actinic irradiation (for review, see [52]). Analyses
SD5). The use of an intracellular carbon pool would explain of the chlorophyll fluorescence yield indicated that the frac-
the lowering of the Qc values after the light shift. At that tions of PSII reaction centres (parameter qP) remaining
moment only 40% of the initial carbon content of the culture open by HL was weak. The absorption of an excess of pho-