identified as the main process driving human demographic imply a particular interaction between demography (i.e. popu-  S
dynamics (e.g. [7,8]). This has led to the proposal that through lation size), technology production through innovation and =
innovations and investment in technology, it will be possible to ideology. This latter component provides the narrative that sus- =
solve potential constraints on population growth and resource tains, and socially validates, the particular feedback between ‘=
use, making the human enterprise sustainable [9-11]. These demography and technology associated with a given strategy. ©
later claims, however, rely on several assumptions such as no These adaptive strategies, or lifestyles, redirect through techno- 5
limits to growth, and that innovations have positive or neutral logical innovations different proportions of the flow of | =
effects. These are at odds with available evidence pointing to ecosystem services to their own maintenance and growth, =
the negative environmental impacts of some innovations, such which are expressed by the size of the geometric shape in the -
as those that have abated the increasing resource demands of a space of ecosystem services in figure 1. Using this conceptual 2
growing population but generated negative externalities such model, we analyse the sustainability of our modern lifestyle S
as habitat loss and degradation, increased CO, emissions and and ask under what circumstances the maximization of our w
pollution [4,12-18], and with the fact that our planet is finite standards of well-being, propelled through increasing popu- = 'Y
and so are the natural capital and the ecosystem services it lation size and increasing innovation (e.g. [10]), is feasible ©
sustains. In this context, we focus on the alternative sustainabil- without compromising our survival and the environment. Ss
ity futures open to humans and, in particular, under which a
innovation scenarios can the human population continue to

grow through continuous innovation (table 1). 2. General model

Different models have been developed to evaluate the sus-
tainability of current human population growth dynamics, but
none has explicitly determined whether innovations can sus-
tain the future (increasing) demands of the growing human
population on a finite planet. In this contribution, we develop