found. This approximation is based on treating each species as to b and d rooted in the mean field approximation. The par-
interacting with the average state of all other species, rather ameter d is an effective parameter arising from the influence
than the specific configuration of abundances at any given of the rest of the population, and therefore the per capita
moment in time [18,21,42]. In the limit of a large number of speciation rate v is constrained to be related to these rates as
species this approach states that the correlation between the abun- v-d-—b. (2.4)
dances of any two species is assumed to be small. In other words,
the abundances of extant species are assumed to evolve indepen- Summarizing, equation (2.2) gives a complete description
dently of each other. Importantly, the resulting mean field of the non-spatial, NZS model that provides a good approxi-
description collapses nonlinear rates of competitive interaction mation to various neutral predictions in ecology when
into an increased, linear mortality rate for each species. This diversity is high [18,21,34,42,43].
approximation of the overlapping generations neutral model is To ensure consistent notation across different scientific
also known as the ‘non-zero-suny’ or NZS approximation, refer- disciplines, we will refer in the following to species as
ring to the fact that the total population size may fluctuate over variants, to individuals as instances and to speciation as inno-
time, i.e. births and deaths do not sum to zero. It has been shown vation. Further, birth and death rates describe the rates at
that this approach provides only a good approximation in popu- which a cultural variant generates or loses an instance,
lations with a large number of species, but in a less diverse respectively (see figure 1).

population, where a handful of species are dominant, the
mean field approximation is no longer a meaningful description.

In the mean field approximation, each species takes an inde-
pendent, random walk, based on a linear stochastic process.
Mathematically, this is described by a linear master equation for
the probability P(n|t) that a species has abundance n conditioned
on its age (i.e. time since introduction into the system)