Empirical results have not yet given a clear resolution to the generational plasticity. We are not aware of any other such
TL-cancer question. Although telomerase shows high activity systematic alteration to DNA sequences that are transmitted
in the vast majority of cancers and the activation of telomere to offspring. As we have reviewed, there is convergent evi-
maintenance pathways in somatic tissues is likely to be critical dence that this PAC effect on TL is due to progressive
for cancer development, it is less clear what role inheriting lengthening of sperm TL as human males age (as we note, it
longer telomeres—germ line TL—plays in cancer risk [7]. is at present less clear how widespread this phenomena is in
Results from prospective human studies tend to show that other species). The biological mechanisms underlying these
longer somatic TL is associated with decreased cancer risk or increases in sperm TL are less certain, but could include
has no association with cancer at all [82—85]. In contrast, gen- some combination of high testicular telomerase activity, selec-
etic polymorphisms associated with longer TL tend to tive loss of spermatogonia with short TL and/or increased
predict increased cancer risk—particularly for rarer cancers proliferation of spermatogonia with long TL. We also reviewed

[6,84,86,87]. These contrasting results could be due to the fact parallels between selfish spermatogonial selection and the PAC


effect on TL which might reflect shared biology. Unlike the telomeres could also allow increased proliferation of follicles | 8 |

plasticity created by continued sperm production with age, in female offspring, which might delay the timing of meno-
oocytes are produced prenatally and correspondingly there is pause and cessation of reproductive senescence when recent a
limited evidence for a MAC effect on offspring TL. If a MAC male ancestors have delayed reproduction themselves. s
effect exists, it is likely to be negative rather than positive. Other similar adaptive intergenerational signalling mech-

The PAC effect on TL has only been studied across eight anisms have been suggested [12] but it remains unclear how
species and shows considerable variation, with chimpanzees common or adaptive such phenomena are [90-92]. The PAC
showing a positive six-fold greater PAC effect than humans, effect on TL is noteworthy, and distinct from many examples