next set of results determined that the mTAC measure exhibits Previous studies have reported that chronically stressed
substantial within-subject stability across time and does not individuals exhibit lower levels of unstimulated telomerase
appear to be influenced by age, sex, BMI and situational factors activity (e.g. [743—-45]). Our results indicate that individuals
including time of day, cortisol concentration, acute stress reporting high levels of perceived (chronic) psychological
exposure and immune cell distribution prior to mitogen stress display lower stimulated telomerase activity capacity
stimulation. The mTAC measure also exhibits substantial (mTAC). A previous study by Damjanovic et al. [46] showed
between-subject variability. Particularly, participants’ perceived no differences in induced PBMC or T cell telomerase activity
(chronic) stress level over the past one-month period accounted levels (anti-CD3/CD28 monoclonal antibody stimulation for
for 12% of the variation in the mTAC measure, with a 25% 72 h) between carers of Alzheimer’s patients (stress exposure
difference in mTAC between subjects reporting high compared group) and controls. This discrepancy with our findings may
with medium or low levels of perceived (chronic) stress. perhaps be explained by differences in the mitogen stimulation

Moreover, individual differences in a key stress-related protocols that were employed, or by the fact that stress


exposure in the carers was operationalized using a depression In this study, individuals displaying higher cortisol El

scale, whereas we assessed stress over the past month using the responses also showed higher heart rate responses, indicating
Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). a coupling between these stress-related endocrine and auto- a
Our protocol particularly stimulates cell types involved in nomic systems. Catecholamines, which are normally produced = 5
cellular immunity, the component of the immune system that in response to acute stress by the adrenal medulla and post-
is initially affected by chronic stress exposure [72]. Chronic ganglionic sympathetic nerve fibres, activate (2-receptors
stress induces a shift in the production of type 1 cytokines present on immune cells. In vitro studies suggest that 82-receptor
towards type 2 cytokines, and it has been associated with stimulation by catecholamines activates the cAMP signalling
blunted mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation and pathway, inhibiting mitogen-stimulated T-cell proliferation =