
telomerase expression can be detected throughout life, and that sequence in the sample, qPCR the total quantity of telomere

TL and telomerase expression can increase during development sequence present. It is possible that, because TL distributions
and adolescence before plateauing or declining in later adult- within samples may be highly skewed and this will affect TRF a
hood [56,57]. In mammals, variation in telomerase expression measures more than qPCR measures, the latter method may pro- s
has been attributed to body size and cancer prevention: telo- vide estimates of TL that are better predictors of organismal
merase is repressed in somatic cells in larger-bodied species health and fitness. Finally, we found hints that the method
but not in smaller ones [13,14]. In birds, although variation in effect could be driven by taxonomic bias in our estimates. We
somatic telomerase expression has been observed [58], it found suggestive evidence that the effect was in part driven by
seems to be widely accepted that somatic telomerase expression a TRF-based reptile study that documented a significant positive
is limited and the situation resembles that in large-bodied mam- association between TL and mortality risk (figure 2). However,
mals [5]. These differences are further complicated by the fact without more studies of the TL-mortality risk association in
that mammals have enucleated red bloods cells and so blood ectothermic vertebrates using different methods it is impossible — -5
cell TL is measured in leucocytes, while in other vertebrate to dissect this suggestion further. The presence ofan unexpected = =
classes it is measured very predominantly in erythrocytes. In methodological difference in the association between TL and =
our analyses, we found a suggestive trend for weaker TL— mortality risk highlights the need for more studies that apply -
mortality risk associations in reptiles compared to birds that both qPCR and TRF techniques to the same samples to under- 2
may have been driven by a single outlying study. That study, stand how and why results might differ with methodology. S
of water pythons, found that in adults long, rather than short, We found no evidence for effects of sex, age group or follow- w
TL was significantly associated with increased mortality risk up time on the association between TL and mortality risk. In
[50], suggesting that an inversion of the relationship we humans and a handful of other mammals investigated to date, 5
observed more widely in birds may occur in some ectothermic a general trend of longer TL in females than males has been 3
species. It is worth noting that the observed negative relation- observed and related to sex differences in lifespan commonly =
ship in pythons could be driven by age differences in TL documented in polygynous species [61-63] (although see