response to the risk of tumour development because of of cancer in ectotherms is clearly too large to cover in this
endotherms’ higher metabolic rate and cellular replication. review, and the data are still relatively meagre. However,
However, incidence of cancer (and its detection frequency) we note that the risk of cancer has been claimed to be as
in nature remains poorly understood across organisms [11], high for ectotherms as for endotherms, suggesting that the
including endotherms potentially with the exception of postulated links between cancer, telomerase repression and
humans. It is clear, however, that cancer occurs throughout endothermy/ectothermy are less straightforward than per-
vertebrate and invertebrate taxa, both in the wild and in haps previously thought. In summary, ectotherms may
captivity ([12-16] but see [17] for potential exception come to play a key role in explaining ongoing evolution of
in long-lived decapods). Specifically, there are considerable telomerase repression in somatic tissue because—unlike
data from captive populations showing neoplasia in amphi- most endotherms—they are likely to have variation in
bians [18] and reptiles [19,20], and captive reptiles have somatic telomerase expression, and associated telomere
been argued to have an incidence of neoplasia comparable dynamics, that can be linked to corresponding variation in
with that of mammals and birds [16,21]. In fact, a study by viability and fitness and be measured in real life.

Madsen eft al. [20] demonstrates that reptiles in French zoo How do we best understand the evolutionary ecology
parks even have significantly higher cancer frequency than of telomere dynamics and telomerase suppression in
mammals. Similarly, cancer is widespread in fish, although ectotherms? Across Metazoa, there is wide variation in telo-
malignant neoplasms with or without metastasis are reported mere dynamics with links to, for example, endothermy,
‘less commonly than in mammals’ [15]. Indeed, some amphi- ectothermy, regenerative ability of tissue and variation in tel-
bians (e.g. Xenopus) and fish (e.g. Danio/Bracydanio rerio, omerase production across tissue and taxa [9]. Thus, there
zebrafish) are used as models in cancer research specifically appears to be an increasing acceptance and awareness that
because they show high cancer frequency, regeneration, there is no single, universal pattern of telomere erosion and
effects of regenerative tissue on cancer growth (negative), that our understanding has been restricted by studying pri-

and because their tumours resemble human tumours both marily laboratory mammal models and humans with little