well to non-model systems and the use of detecting crossovers based on maternal age is easy in a system such as flies, but
in admixed populations using ancestry informative markers in a non-model system this may be more difficult. Finally,
[81]. These latter approaches would be ideal for collecting the time may not be a perfect indicator of meiotic timing. Specifi-
requisite fine-scale data that would be necessary for uncovering cally, there may be individual variance for meiotic
specific genes related to mechanism. progression that leads to variation in a ‘day’ effect.
In figure 3, we show the results of our fine-scale study along As mentioned above, in D. melanogaster experiments, such
the second chromosome of D. pseudoobscura. The fine-scale as done by Grell, a major advancement was to synchronize
approach yields insights into regions that have higher recombi- female oogenesis for temporal analysis. Here, we have
nation rates at multiple temperatures. Not only does this match chosen a different model specifically for the purpose of syn-
previous work showing that some regions are more sensitive to chronized oogenesis. D. pseudoobscura females have
recombination rate plasticity, but it also shows that the high- synchronization of oogenesis across ovarioles, which allows
temperature treatment is not always higher than the control time to be a better indicator of progression through oocyte
temperature. In fact, contrary to some studies, ours indicates development [115]. This synchronicity, either imposed

that the converse also occurs in later time periods. within the experimental design or inherent in the study


organism, is key to matching the time measurements with
mechanisms based on meiotic timing.

In figure 3, we show the results of our study, specifically
highlighting the differences between treatments by day. We col-
lected progeny in 48 h increments. To avoid sample size issues
and experimental complexity, one could design an experiment
in wider intervals to first narrow down a specific time point of