only about a third of cells in the cyst will go on to become pri- meiotic stages. For example, some organisms undergo an
mary oocytes [75]. This means that the process by which either inverted form of meiosis [79], with reversed timing of MI and
single or multiple oocytes are selected could affect realized MII, which would be uniquely useful for distinguishing
recombination rates both in Drosophila and in mammals. In between indirect effects occurring during these divisions. In
general, direct effects are expected to occur during these general, the logic of how mechanistic inferences are made
early meiotic stages. Specifically, recombination rates are sensi- depends on the experimental approach and the system under
tive to perturbations just before or during pachytene when study. Recombination rate plasticity is expected only if a devel-
both crossing-over and oocyte selection occur. oping gamete is subject to stressful conditions at the time a
Indirect effects on the realized recombination rate could causal mechanism is occurring. For example, in Drosophila
also happen during later stages of meiosis, specifically only oocytes at early stages of development are present prior
during the MI and MII divisions. Egg chambers progress to eclosion. If an experimental treatment is applied during
through many stages of development between early meiosis development and removed post-eclosion, the hypothesis that
and these later divisions. In fact, progression from prophase causal mechanisms occur in these early stages of meiosis can
to metaphase I can take approximately 5 to 6 days [76,77]. be tested. To clearly explain how the interpretation of the
Metaphase I does not occur until stage 14 and is closely fol- data differs between different approaches we highlight a
lowed by a second arrest. Metaphase I arrest is released upon specific example for each basic type of experimental approach
egg activation during ovulation [67]. Meiosis then completes (figure 2), and relate these experiments to oogenesis and

over the next 48h with the MI and MII divisions occurring meiotic mechanisms suggested by the results (figure 1).


3 Drosophila as a model for studying collected in the next set of experiments. The difference in recom- 5 |

bination rate between treatment and control was compared over
