
ture and food) conditions investigated. The D. melanogaster Recombination results from the repair of DNA double-strand
genome annotation is a good case in point. Only 2 years after breaks through either CO events which shuffle large genomic
the initial genome reference was released (Release 1 [131]), the regions between homologous chromosomes or NCO events
D. melanogaster Release 3 [132] altered the majority (85%) of which only involve the transfer of short genomic segments
gene models. Even more significantly, Release 5 (2006) of the called gene conversion tracts. Gene conversion tracts are
genome annotation described almost 7000 new alternative spli- often only a few hundred nucleotides long or even shorter
cing forms, 1200 novel ncRNAs and more than 1000 new genes [40,136-139]; therefore, the number and genomic location of
when compared with Release 4 (2004) [133]. Predictably, potential new allelic combinations caused by NCOs is highly
genome annotations vary almost always in the direction of limited relative to the overall effects associated with COs.
describing novel functional regions and reveal that a fraction As a consequence, NCO recombination has been often
of previously assumed neutral sites is, in fact, sporadically or assumed to play a minor role in reducing hitchhiking effects
constitutively under selection. To exemplify how this point in natural populations. In fact, most studies of selection and
can influence population genomic studies, I used D. melanogaster linkage directly omit NCOs and use COs as the only source
genome annotations from Release 4 (2004) and the more recent of recombination when predicting patterns of diversity and
R6 (2016) [133]. The fraction of genomic sequence solely anno- effectiveness of selection across genomes.

tated as intergenic (not counting ‘N’s) decreases from 0.40 to The comparison of B landscapes based on BGS models
0.27 for R4 and R6, respectively. The study of nucleotide that consider only COs (Bco) and those that include both CO

diversity from the African Rwanda (RG) population of and NCO events (Bco;Nco), however, reveals that BcoNco


landscapes perform consistently better than Bco landscapes maps between two visual markers with unparalleled ultra-high | 8 |
