on the endosomal pathway in [15]). However, this restricted better understand the nature of isolated EVs and to develop
size is necessary, but not sufficient, to define exosomes. tools to describe and distinguish distinct EV subtypes.
Indeed, EVs budding from the plasma membrane do not pre- We focused on human primary dendritic cells (DCs),
sent a limited size distribution, which means that they can be which we had shown to secrete more heterogeneous small
much larger (up to one or a few micrometres in diameter), but EVs than, for instance, the HeLa tumour cell line [25].
also as small as exosomes (smaller than 150 nm in diameter). We used different approaches to separate EV subtypes. The
Most protocols used to isolate exosomes are designed to iso- first approach was based on the different sizes and physical
late small EVs and eliminate larger ones, by, for example, properties of EVs, resulting in different pelleting behaviours
filtration through 0.22 ym filters, or by differential ultracen- and different flotation into density gradients. The second
trifugation (dUC) whereby large/heavy vesicles are first approach was based on EVs’ surface composition, resulting
pelleted and eliminated at low/medium speed [16-18]. The in differential isolation by antibody-based capture (figure 1)
resulting samples, even if they are generally called ‘exo- [26]. As proposed before [16], increasing the speed of
somes’, in fact potentially contain a mixture of small EVs, centrifugation resulted in EV preparations progressively
whose subcellular origin can be heterogeneous. This idea enriched in EVs of decreasing sizes. A majority of EVs of
first occurred to us when we realized that, upon inhibiting diameter larger than 200 nm were recovered upon centrifu-
expression of the small GTPase Rab27a in a murine tumour gation at 2000g. A mixture of large, medium size and small
cell line [19], we observed a decreased secretion of some exo- EVs was obtained at 10 000g. Finally, the smallest EVs (less
some-associated proteins, such as the tetraspanin CD63, than 150 nm) formed the vast majority of the pellet after
TSG101, HSC70 (gene name: Hspa8), as described in a 100 000g ultracentrifugation. We analysed the proteome of
human HeLa cell line [20]), but not of others, which were four types of vesicles that were pelleted at different speeds
so far considered also as ‘exosome-markers’, such as another (10 000g and 100 000g) and reached different buoyant den-
tetraspanin, CD9, or the phosphatidylserine-binding protein sities (1.115 and 1.145gml”') after bottom-up flotation
Milk Fat Globule-EGF-Factor VIII (MFGE8). As CD63 and into a density iodixanol (= Optiprep™) gradient. By gene

TSG101, in the secreting cell, accumulate in MVE, whereas ontology term analysis of the qualitative proteome of each