
0)

Figure 2. Myriapods, hexapods and coprolites from Rhynie and Windyfield. (a,b) Limb elements of Crussolum sp. (Chilopoda: Scutigeromorpha). (c) Rhynimonstrum
dunlopi Anderson & Trewin, 2003 (Arthropoda incertae sedis, possibly Diplopoda?). (d) Head capsule of Rhyniella preacursor Hirst & Maulik, 1926 (Hexapoda:
Collembola). (e) Rhyniognatha hirsti Tillyard, 1928 (Hexapoda: affinities equivocal). (f) Leverhulmia mariae Anderson & Trewin, 2003 (probably Hexapoda).
(g—i) Coprolites of the Lancifex Habgood, Hass & Kerp, 2004 type including amorphous (g) and spore-rich (h,/) contents.

Hopkin [49] commented on how similar R. preacursor is to Maulik [31], preserving a pair of mandibles surrounded by
living collembolan species. He also reviewed previous sugges- harder-to-identify cuticular structures (figure 2e). Largely con-
tions about its probable affinities, favouring the proposal of the sidered ‘insect like’ in the past, Engel & Grimaldi [14] proposed
extant family Isotomidae ([50]; see also [52]). Both these studies that the mouthparts were of a dicondylic nature—i.e. posses-
highlighted the fact that Isotomidae possess a generalized mor- sing two pivot points, a posterior condyle and anterior
phology, and tend to be the dominant component within acetabulum—and triangular in form. From this they proposed
modern springtail communities. Extant members of the that the animal as a whole was a pterygote (i.e. winged) insect.
family are found in various litter, soil and moss habitats, and This tantalizing possibility has not been corroborated by any
despite being more abundant in cold and damp conditions other specimens, but if correct it implies that non-insect hexa-
are found in a wide range of ecosystems from deserts to pods (collembolans), apterygote insects, and some of the
polar regions. earliest pterygotes were all present on land by the Early Devo-

nian. Molecular clock dating [54,55] corroborates the idea that
ectognathous insects, and perhaps even pterygotes, had
(ii) Rhyniognatha evolved by this point.
Rhyniognatha hirsti Tillyard, 1928 is an enigmatic species [53] Irrespective of R. hirsti’s affinities, the form of the mand-
known from a single specimen, initially figured by Hirst & ibles—triangular, with well-differentiated incisor and molar