region preadapted to exist in the hot-springs environment [32].
Most probably they were stress-tolerant ruderals that could:
(i) rapidly colonize newly created unstable environments
and grow quickly to maturity, before the environment was
of shared taxa using the Coefficient of Similarity and Jaccard once again disrupted by inundation of either flood waters,
Index (results presented in table 3). It is clear that the Rhynie bringing sand from the river system or sinter depositing
assemblage is most like those from the lowland floodplain hot-springs waters; (ii) tolerate water stress and perhaps
deposits of southwest Wales and Gaspé and least like those also extremes of temperatures, pH, salinity and heavy
from the Ardennes-Rhenish region. Regarding the floodplain metals concentration.
deposits southwest Wales is more similar than Gaspé, prob- Of course it may be that these three plants inhabited
ably because the former is geographically closer, with unstable and challenging environments in other parts of the
Gaspé further south at higher latitude. Compared to the drainage basin (and beyond) where they were able to tolerate
floodplain deposits it is noticeable that Rhynie has many periodic submergence, elevated salinity, etc. In fact such
fewer patinate spores (particularly ornamented forms environments may have been frequent in the inland uplands.
belonging to Cymbosporites and Chelinospora), Dibolisporites For example, Lower Old Red Sandstone deposits further
is less abundant, and certain distinctive and common taxa north in the Northern Highlands of Scotland include hostile
are absent from Rhynie (e.g. Breconisporites breconensis and playa mudflat facies and interlaminated bituminous dolo-
Streelispora newportensis). mites with evidence for the precipitation of gypsum [18].
It is evident that the seven plants preserved in the Rhynie The Rhynie plants may also have thrived in these and other
cherts represent only a subset of the plants that flourished harsh environments.
throughout the Rhynie drainage basin. Presumably the Unfortunately, due to the indistinct morphology of their
majority of the flora was excluded from the hot-springs spores, similar analysis cannot be conducted on the other
environment because they were unable to grow in the plants of the Rhynie chert (Asteroxylon, Nothia, Trichophero-
unstable and harsh setting. Nonetheless, in the cases where phyton, Ventarura). It could be that these plants were indeed
we can confidently recognize spore producers within the highly adapted specialists that flourished in hot-springs