The stomata of most mosses develop and begin to open when The new data presented here on ICSs, the potassium content of
the sporophytes have almost reached their full dimensions, moss stomatal guard cells, and the water relations and growth
except in Funaria where this takes place on much younger of moss sporophytes, add completely new dimensions to our

capsules approximately half their final diameters [30,100]. understanding of stomatal evolution and function in


Figure 4. Cryo-scanning electron micrographs of freeze-fractured moss sporophytes: Physcomitrella patens (a,b); Physcomitrium pyriforme (c,d); Lyellia crispa (e,f).
(a,c) Young sporophytes with liquid-filled (asterisk) intercellular spaces. (e) Gas (arrowed) gradually replaces their initially liquid-filled content following stomatal
opening, as evidenced by the presence of intercellular spaces only partially filled with liquid (asterisk in f). Liquid is first lost from the substomatal cavities (b; S,
stoma) until the entire intercellular space system becomes gas-filled (d). Scale bars: (c,d) 100 jum; (a,e) 50 jum; (b,d) 20 um.

bryophytes particularly when considered within the frame- is the fact that pectic strands are almost invariably visible traver-
work of current schemes of bryophyte phylogeny (figure 7). sing nascent ICSs in vascular plants (figure 6b) [43,44,101] but
On the one hand, the presence of ICSs in both generations in we rarely saw these in bryophytes. In addition, their very differ-
liverworts and lycophytes is strong evidence that these were a ent distributions both between and within the three bryophyte
very early acquisition by early land plants. On the other hand, lineages plus their varied functions all point to multiple rather
their lacunae, fluid-filled at the outset throughout bryophytes, than unitary origins.
sets bryophyte ICSs apart from those in vascular plants. Game- In liverworts, the most prominent ICSs in both generations
tophytic ICSs always remain liquid-filled but liquid is replaced are at the base of the phylogeny and have three different
by gas in hornwort and moss sporophytes. This major difference functions. In liverwort setae ICSs are most likely a key structu-
in ICSs ontogeny points to separate origins. Identification of ral component maintaining and augmenting the hydrostatic
possible specific ICSs genes, biochemical analyses of their skeleton solely determined by the turgidity of its constituent
liquid content and cell wall composition—to determine whether thin-walled cells [102-104], whereas the most likely role
changes in wall chemistry are involved in the schizolytic pro- for the presence of liquid-filled cavities in liverwort (and