Plagiochasma rupestre, Athalamia hyalina) and less desiccation- in a few later divergent leafy clades, e.g. Pleuroziales, some
tolerant (Neohodgsonia, Asterella australis, A. tenera, Peltolepis Porellales, Ptilidiales, Mastigophoraceae, Herbertaceae, Gym-
quadrata, Riccia huebeneriana, R. crystallina, Sauteria alpina) com- nomitriaceae, and is rare across thalloid taxa. Curiously, none
plex thalloid liverwort taxa. In this context, it is most striking of the aforementioned liverworts have fungal endophytes
that Dendroceros, the only desiccation-tolerant hornwort [106]. It may well be that external cells with thickened walls,
genus, has many species with fenestrated thalli rather than which appear intrinsic to the basic construction of moss
mucilage cavities. This feature, unique to Dendroceros, is most stems, were a major factor alongside the evolution of multicel-
likely related to rapid de- and rehydration. The third function lular rhizoids that by-passed the establishment of fungal
of liquid-filled chambers is forming the domatia for symbiotic symbioses in the group [105]. Placing this in the Rhynie
fungi [105] and Nostoc [86]. chert context, many of the fossils here resemble mosses in
Perhaps the most striking feature of ICSs in bryophytes is having peripheral rather than central vascular supporting
their absence in moss gametophytes (figure 7b). One possible, tissues in their axes.
but perhaps only partial explanation may lie in the fact that the Whatever future molecular and biochemical analyses
majority of moss stems have peripheral cell layers with might reveal, the data in tables 1 and 2 highlight that the nas-
thickened walls whereas most liverwort stems and_thalli cence of ICSs in bryophyte and pteridophyte gametophytes
do not. This feature is particularly characteristic in the early had nothing to do with gaseous regulation or with stomata

moss lineages—Takakiopsida, Andreaeopsida, Polytrichopsida, in liverwort sporophytes. The associations between ICSs and


Table 4. Summary of weight losses from the gametophytes and sporophytes with green fully expanded capsules of a range of mosses, a hornwort and | 13 |
vascular plant leaves.

a
sporophyte sporophyte sporophyte gametophytes g