prevent animals finding the target tunnel by relying on element was in the position previously occupied by the
spatial cues. Honeybees (Apis mellifera) can find a food fourth one. In both tests, chicks neglected the elements
source after they have passed a precise number (up to four) located at the correct distance from either end of the series.
of landmarks [62-64]. They instead directed their pecks at the numerically correct
Plus, day-old animals can use ordinal information to find a elements, but in this case, they chose identically the left
food reward. Different groups of 5-day-old chicks were and the right target element [66]. Also, when the possible
trained, for food reinforcement, to peck at the third, fourth use of spatial information was prevented by changing the
or sixth element in a series of ten identical, equidistant and inter-element distances from trial to trial, both during train-
sagittally (with respect to the chicks’ starting point) aligned ing and during fronto-parallel test, chicks identified as
elements. All groups of animals mastered the task, and at correct both the left and the right target elements. Moreover,
test they pecked the target element alone at significantly the lack of bias could not be ascribed to a novelty effect
above chance. This first evidence suggested that chicks related to a general change that occurred between the train-
could encode serial-ordinal information. However, because ing and the testing series. In fact, when chicks experienced
during training and during testing the elements’ position a modification in the elements’ colour between training
remained identical, chicks could rely both on numerical and and testing, they showed a left bias, pecking above chance
on spatial cues, such as the distance of the target from the solely the target of the left side of the series. Overall, these
starting point to a series’ beginning or end. To disentangle data show that in ordinal tasks, chicks (i) can use exclusively
which information the chicks were using, a new group of numerical cues, (ii) preferentially rely on numerical over
chicks was trained to peck at the fourth element in a series spatial cues, and (iii) manifest a left bias only when they
of ten identical elements, maintained in fixed position. At can code, during training and recover during test, both
test, the number of elements in the series was reduced to spatial and numerical information.
five and the inter-element distance was enlarged to create a Given that chicks are able to use proto-‘cardinal’ numeri-
conflict between the ordinal and the spatial information (e.g. cal cues [38,48,54] and because they can comprehend
the distance separating the starting point and the target). In ordinality [65,66], a future challenge would be to ascertain
the new series, the second element was in the position pre- whether they can integrate these two aspects of numerical