
(a) Do infants respond to number?

Did the infants in these experiments respond to the number of
members of displayed sets, rather than to some other visually
detectable property not controlled for? The infants could

have been responding to the total area of the individual (c) Pre-schoolers
items, a not implausible hypothesis if the displays present To summarize, there is good evidence that infants are respon-
what look like chocolate buttons. Another suggestion is that sive to the number of items in very small sets and have
they respond to the convex hull (roughly: the area within a number-discrimination ability within a very limited range; but
rubber band when stretched to go round all the individual we lack evidence that they have the recognize-and-distinguish
items without moving them). There are corresponding ability that we are looking for (though they may in fact have
aurally detectable features if presented sets are sequences of it). For evidence of that, studies with pre-schoolers and chim-
sounds: the sum of the durations of the sounds, or the dur- panzees are more promising, as training and experience make
ation of the interval from the start of the first sound to the possible the formation of enduring number representations.
end of the last sound. Why should we conclude that the The results of two studies of pre-schoolers given several
infants are responding to anything as abstract as number? numerical tasks suggest that number words are mapped onto
While it may be impossible to control for every conceiva- long-term representations of set sizes one to three and
ble alternative hypothesis to explain the infant data, the sometimes also four. Benoit et al. [28] found that pre-school
range of alternatives may be narrowed down so much that children of 3-5 years old can name the number in a display
the hypothesis that the infants are responding to number of one, two or three items. Sets of dots were presented under
stands out as the most plausible. Certain violation-of-expec- two conditions: (i) simultaneous display for 800 ms, and
tation experiments involving auditory—visual matching go (ii) sequentially, one dot at a time for 800 ms each. Comparing
a long way towards achieving this. In two studies, Koyabashi performance under these conditions, the authors concluded