after reaching the learning criterion, we tested the fish in imprinting objects. In a study by Rugani et al. [79], chicks = =
probe trials with a new numerical contrast: 12 versus 24. The could see two sets of imprinting objects—for instance, one
predictions were opposite, depending on whether the fish composed of three objects and the other made up of two.
learned an absolute or a relative rule. Guppies in this condition Each set was hidden sequentially behind one of two
significantly selected the larger number, 24, instead of opaque screens (1 + 1+ 1 versus 1 + 1). Only after the sets
the number previously reinforced, 12. Similarly, the guppies disappeared were the subjects free to search for their imprint-
initially trained on 6 as positive selected the novel numerosity ing objects. The chicks chose the larger numerosity and
in a 3-versus-6 discrimination task. This clearly indicates that, proved to be able to add the numbers of objects in the two
during the training phase, guppies had extracted a relational sets and then compare the two numerical values.
tule rather than associating rewards with a given numerosity. None of these experiments have yet been tried on fish, and
Recently, an identical result was obtained in angelfish [58]. we currently lack any evidence in favour or against the fact
This is obviously not a demonstration that fish cannot form a that fish have a representation of number similar to the represen-
long-term representation of a specific quantity, because we tation that birds and mammals are supposed to have. In fact, two
showed that even adult humans use the same strategy to recent studies performed in our laboratory suggest that fish
solve this task when placed in the same experimental might possess more complex forms of number representation
conditions as fish [58]. and that this possibility is worth investigating.

There have been attempts to overcome the limitations of the As we already mentioned, guppies can rapidly learn to
simultaneous presentation paradigm. One study presented select the third position in an array of 8 or 12 feeders with
two groups of females (e.g. 2 versus 3) to a male redtail splitfin; great precision [55]. As feeders are systematically moved in
when the choice was offered, researchers placed an opaque space and the distance between adjacent feeders varies in
barrier so that the same number of females (e.g. 2) was visible any trial, guppies must have some representation of the
in both sectors. The males proved to be able to select the larger number ‘3’ that can allow them to find the correct feeder inde-
number of females in 1-versus-2, 2-versus-3 and 3-versus-4 pendent of the spatial arrangement of the feeders. Interestingly,
comparisons [71]. A similar result was obtained in zebrafish guppies are still able to locate the correct feeder when trained