characteristic stressed phenotype. Moreover, during cancer
development, cells are exposed to altered extracellular con-
ditions which can include hypoxic, acidotic, mechanical and
nutrient deprived microenvironments, further stimulating the
cancer cell to engage highly conserved survival pathways
such as the HSR. Consistent with the knowledge that cancer
cells are exposed, both internally and externally, to major


proteotoxic insults that challenge cellular homeostasis and sur- with HSP90 to elicit extracellular functions such as MMP-2 El

vival, it is not surprising that cancers constitutively express high activation and cancer cell invasion and migration [23,27].
levels of HSP family members. In fact, tumour cells have Our increasing knowledge of the unique roles of HSPs a
become to be regarded as addicted to HSPs (e.g. HSP90) as and their co-chaperones external to the cell is leading to s
well as their transcriptional regulators (e.g. HSF1). novel approaches for the therapeutic targeting of cancers. For a
Increased expression of many HSPs, including HSP27 example, cell surface HSP70 is currently being used asatarget = 2-
(HSPB1), HSP72 (HSPA1A, HSPA1B) and HSP90 (HSP90AA1, of novel therapies that include nanoparticle-based treatments Ss
HSP90B1), has been shown in a wide variety of cancer types for cancer, and cell-impermeable HSP90 inhibitors are being =
such as breast, prostate, lung and melanoma, and is associa- examined as to their efficacy in inhibiting cancer migration =
ted with poor patient outcomes. Moreover, HSF1, the master and invasion (reviewed in this issue [9]). Therefore, our ‘2
regulator of the HSR, has also been shown to be increased in increased understanding of the actions of extracellular HSPs ‘©
expression and constitutively activated in many cancers. The will not only lead us to a better understanding of the biology = -s
parallel molecular, genetic and pharmacological investigations of cancer and its progression, but also reveal further = =
that have been performed in relation to HSPs and their signalling therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of advanced cancers. =
and transcriptional regulation have further confirmed their -