
to confirm this change; if the change was a decrease, they look (vi) Distinguishing essential principles from conventional
around for the missing item or conjecture that ‘Jesus took it’ practices

([46], ch. 10). When the items are simply rearranged or even To be valid, a verbal count must honour three principles: (i) a
when obviously different items are substituted one-for-one, one-to-one mapping of the count words to the items in the

there is much less surprise, no counting and no indications set; (ii) the use of a stably ordered list of count words; and


(iii) the last word represents the cardinality of the set. These of mathematics such as Aristotle suggests that the mind | 8 |

are the essential principles. There are also conventions, such is steered to this conclusion by the fact that the principle is
as counting from left to right, not skipping around, and so already manifest in the operation of the pre-linguistic system a
on. Pre-school children readily violate the conventions for reasoning about discrete quantities. s
while adhering to the principles, which again suggests that a
they grasp the principles [50] (b) Nevertheless skill acquisition matters S
It is equally clear, however, that the principles alone will not = =
(vii) The ease with which the potential infinity of the numbers take one far in the absence of learning how to put the principles = =
is induced into practice in a variety of situations. Children must, for &
Cantor caused a storm in nineteenth-century mathematics by example, master the count list of their language. This learning
deducing (or positing) ‘realized’ or ‘completed’ infinities, has both a rote component, which varies from culture to cul- ~~
such as the set of the natural numbers and the set of real ture depending on the base or bases (many languages have = =
numbers, and by proving that the latter was more numerous mixed bases), and a generative component, which, when mas-_—
than the former. Before Cantor, most mathematicians recog- tered, enables the generation of ever-greater number names. -