means of social information transfer among individuals separ- but which can be reached by multiple selectively neutral
ated in time, potentially allowing for extended influence to alternative paths, is also likely to facilitate the emergence of
other conspecific groups or even different species [114,115]. stable, socially transmitted travel routes. As local cultural inno-
While some routes can be highly entrenched (by persisting vations—points of origin for inter-group variation—can arise
relatively unchanged over long time scales), other paths may be either from individual invention or from collective intelligence,
further modified and improved. This gradual improvement in every pathway we illustrate in figure 3 has the potential to sup-
the efficiency or complexity of behaviour is referred to as port cultural evolution. For migratory cultures to become
cumulative culture [116], conceived to operate via a ‘ratchet cumulative, we suggest that what is important is the capacity
effect’ [117] where beneficial variants are retained in the popu- to transmit routes with sufficiently high fidelity to enable ben-
lation until even more beneficial variants arise. In our eficial modifications to accumulate gradually, in a ‘ratchet’-like
schematic in figure 3, all of our proposed pathways can lead fashion [117]. Such high-fidelity transmission may require
to such increasingly better navigational solutions over repeated (i) individual cognitive capacities to memorize landscape or
rounds of innovation, retention and transmission. The fact that other navigational cues in sufficient detail to recapitulate pre-
many wrongs and emergent sensing are able to generate infor- viously travelled routes, (ii) environments that provide such
mation that no individual may be capable of generating on its cues at sufficient resolution and (iii) terrains that permit some
own (i.e. these mechanisms rely on collective intelligence) degree of open-endedness in route structure.

suggests that they may create either overall more effective
culturally transmitted traits or may generate them faster than
the pathway through individual innovation, leadership and . .
social learning. Nonetheless, both pathways suggest an 6. Outlook and future directions

important role for turnover in group membership in providing Now isan exciting time to study collective navigation. Although
the ‘noise’ necessary for increasingly superior navigational in this review, we have emphasized empirical results, currently
solutions to emerge over time. the theoretical predictions of collective navigation far outweigh