those that leave a confined space sooner) are less likely to been used for different behavioural manifestations [50].
be predated by raptors than shy ones [43], while it has been These problems can be extrapolated to studies that investigate
demonstrated that leaders have a higher vulnerability to pre- the relationship between personality and collective behav-
dation in fish shoals [44]. Besides the fact that pigeon leaders iour. For example, ‘boldness’ is measured in terms of social
may not always be at the frontal position [7,25,45,46], there behaviour (e.g. how much individuals stay close to others;
are at least three other possible reasons for this inconsistency bold individuals are those that who pay little attention to
with the results from fish. First, bold birds may have other others) in some studies (e.g. [18]), while in other studies it
associated characteristics that help them avoid predation is measured by testing individual exploratory behaviour
attacks. For example, our results suggested that bold pigeons (e.g. [16]). These behaviours may not necessarily correspond
are, on average, faster individual fliers, so leaders among to the same underlying trait, and thus, comparisons of these
birds may be better at escaping from predators than fol- studies for extracting general principles of the relationship

lowers. In fact, a recent study has shown that bold pigeons between leadership and boldness could be meaningless.


Nonetheless, with more standardized behavioural assays flocks, future empirical data from this species have the poten-

and greater clarity in terminology, these problems could be tial to shed important light on such questions, and, more
overcome [50,51]. broadly, on burgeoning discussions about the evolution of a

Heterogeneity of group members can be important to personality, or individual variation, in animal groups s
facilitate effective collective decisions, as previous studies [13,47,49,54,55].

have demonstrated [1,52,53], but it is not yet clear exactly
what the adaptive value of either boldness or leadership is