ditionally, adaptation has been used by psychophysicists to topic. Perhaps both adaptor and test need to be in the same
reveal neural mechanisms selective to specific aspects of the spatiotopic position, the same position on the screen, not the
stimulus, such as direction of motion [23] or orientation [24]. retina, as we describe later for adaptation to temporal stimuli,
Burr & Ross [25] recently showed that numerosity is and are currently studying for spatial stimuli. Figure 1a
strongly susceptible to visual adaptation. The effect is illus- shows the effect of adapting to different numerosities on
trated in the online animation (electronic supplementary the apparent numerosity of a 50-dot display. Adapting to
material, movie S1): after a period of observing dense or higher numerosities caused subjects to underestimate the
sparse dot clouds (approx. 30s), the apparent numerosity apparent numerosity of the display and, most interestingly,
of subsequently viewed dot clouds changes considerably. adapting to low numerosities caused an overestimation,
The adaptation effects are spatially specific, so it is possible while adapting to 50 had no effect at all. The effects are
to simultaneously adapt different locations of the visual large, up to a factor of two in each direction.
field to high, low or neutral numerosities [26]. Adaptation to number is fascinating on several levels. The
Interestingly, the demonstration does not work well pres- fact that the apparent numerosity of the same physical cloud

ented on paper, asking subjects to change gaze from adaptor of dots can vary so greatly after simply observing a different


dot cloud is a clear demonstration that we do not actually
encode each individual dot. After adaptation to high numer-
osities, no particular dot disappears from the test patch; and
after adaptation to low numerosities, new dots are not created.
Clearly, the system does not encode all dots individually, but
creates an efficient description of the scene, perhaps just the
numerosity and some other simple summary statistics (con-
sistent with much evidence that the perceived richness of