and the thalamus. In the indirect ‘semantic route’, the oper- was appropriately designed for basic clinical screening, did S
ands represent quantities on which semantically meaningful not allow further correlations with specific error categories
manipulations can be performed. By this route subtraction (spatial or core arithmetical ones, but see also [21]). Dormal
would be preferentially performed. Crucially, this route is et al. [42] also compared right hemisphere patients with and
also assumed to monitor the plausibility of a result retrieved without neglect specifically on mental addition and subtrac-
by the direct route by appealing to approximate magnitude tion of two-digit numbers. Just as in the study of
knowledge. The route would be sustained bilaterally by the Benavides-Varela et al. [41], neglect patients performed
inferior parietal cortex and by the left perisylvian network. worse in subtraction (multiplication was not assessed). Inter-
Given the handedness of patient MAR, however, one estingly neglect patients performed nearly perfectly on
cannot make safe inferences about what would be the invol- matched additions. The authors interpreted this result as
vement of the typical right hemisphere in the given tasks. demonstrating a causal relationship between attending to
Subsequent work by the same [26] and other authors [10] the left side of space and solving subtractions. Similarly, a
showed in fact dissociations between different arithmetical recent case study [43] provided evidence for a reverse dis-
operations, but within the left hemisphere. sociation by describing a left brain-damaged patient
Single case studies of acalculia in right brain-damaged exhibiting right unilateral visuo-spatial and representational
patients are rare and mostly anecdotal (e.g. [27,28]). The neglect. The patient experienced difficulties in solving
only detailed case was reported by Grana et al. [7]. This addition but not subtraction problems and also in judging
patient had a posterior right hemisphere lesion, involving the numerical magnitude of numbers located to the right
the polar planum, Heschl gyrus, the temporal planum, pos- of a reference point along the mental number line (i.e.
terior insula, the supramarginal gyrus and the angular larger than a standard). These findings are in keeping with
gyrus, with dilatation of the right ventricle. No left hemi- other behavioural (e.g. [44—49]), and neuroimaging studies
sphere lesion was detected. An important portion of this [50,51] showing that performing basic addition and subtrac-
patient’s errors could be demonstrated to be spatial in tions induces spatial shifts to the right and left sides of the
nature and specifically related to the demands of both attentional space.
mental and visual representation of multi-digit multipli- To summarize, impairments of the spatial representation