lation. For instance, Warrington & James [19] also showed to explain hemispheric differences in calculation in a dichot-
that right hemisphere-damaged patients showed impair- omous linguistic/spatial distinction as has been done in the
ments on number estimation tasks. TMS studies on number past. Performance on tasks like dealing with mental layouts
comparison [68,69,77] remarkably converge to the conclusion for complex operations, processing of zero in complex
that the left hemisphere is able to perform precise number number transcoding, determining capacity limits of enumer-
discrimination (e.g. impaired comparison of close numbers) ation within the subitizing range, approximation, attention = -5
whereas the right hemisphere can only approximate allocation in calculation, etc. cannot easily be accounted for = =
number magnitude (e.g. impaired comparison of distant by a single, more generic function. In some cases the right =
numbers). hemisphere might concur with the left hemisphere in the -
Findings on errors with DCE may be scarce in quantity, same task, while in others, the two hemispheres might 2
and need confirmation, but data from both addition and mul- work independently. Future research will highlight exactly S
tiplication converge in supporting a crucial role of the right how. For the time being, it is essential to start with the w
hemisphere. The fact that positive sites are invariably oper- right questions. ve
ation-specific is a very important demonstration that the 3
Data accessibility. This article has no additional data. a

right hemisphere is really specifically and crucially involved
in addition and multiplication. These data seem also more
clear with respect to previous literature about the distribution

of functions, retrieval and approximation, between the left
uncon, wv Pproxt ’ Funding. The writing of this paper was made possible by the support

and the right hemisphere. While, consistently with neuroima- of Progetto strategico ‘NEURAT’ (STPD11B8HM_004) from the
ging studies, the role of the left hemisphere in rote retrieval is University of Padova to C.S.