replication is not rare, an important requirement for cultural when dual-inheritance theorists suggest that one cultural trait
selection—‘one-shot fidelity’—is likely to be met. However, is fitter than another, they rarely specify who or what benefits
there are two other requirements, often overlooked by dual- from this fitness, or what is the nature of the benefit.
inheritance theorists, for ‘dumb choices’ and ‘recurrent fidelity’ Sterelny and Lewens, philosophers of biology with a deep
(§5). A second excursion into cognitive science suggests that understanding of evolutionary theory and the contemporary
these requirements can be met by ‘metacognitive social learn- literature on cultural evolution, may well be right about this,
ing strategies’ (§6). To conclude, I offer a glimpse of the but my hunch is different. I think dual-inheritance theory is
reciprocal relationship—what cultural evolution can do for intended to provide selective explanations, and is committed
cognitive science—using the origins of metacognitive social to the idea that cultural change can be Darwinian in its own
learning strategies as an example (§7). right, but the California school has not got round to addressing

the questions that would make this hypothesis ‘causally
robust’. This hunch is based, in part, on the fact that the early
development of dual-inheritance theory was much influenced

2. Thi rd-way cultural selection by Donald T. Campbell, and his view of cultural evolution was
The most fully developed populational account of cultural unambiguously, and indeed evangelically, selectionist [15,16].
evolution is known as dual-inheritance theory [5-8], or the Also, to this day, when commenting on their project as a whole,
‘California school’ [9,10]. This impressive body of work is and glossing the results of particularly models, the members of
‘evolutionary’ in at least three respects. First, it assumes that the California school write as if they are aiming for selective
social learning—or, at least, the kinds of social learning that explanations. They emphasize the ‘Darwinian’ character of cul-
drive large-scale changes in human populations—is built on tural evolution, refer to ‘cultural adaptations’, use the term
a set of genetic adaptations; natural selection acting on genetic ‘selection’ repeatedly and make explicit statements such as

variants has given humans psychological mechanisms—called ‘The logic of natural selection applies to culturally transmitted