variety of ways archaeology might contribute to the develop- [20,22]), cladistics can be a powerful and principled means of a
ment of cultural evolutionary theory. First, as we continue to identifying and quantifying the evolutionary relationships s
identify archaeologically relevant units of observation and that are sometimes simply assumed in other approaches (see a
analysis, we increase the potential for archaeological data to also [2,17]). 2.
provide independent tests of existing models’ predictions, as 3
demonstrated here through an original study of projectile =
points from the US Southwest. I argue, further, that we (b) Artefact variability and cultural transmissio =
should pursue avenues of research that leverage archaeology’s Where cladistics uses similarity to establish historically mean- “2
unique perspectives and rich—if complicated—records of ingful artefact taxa, a second approach to cultural evolution ©
social learning in real-world contexts to generate novel cultural uses measures of difference—patterns of artefact variation—to 5
evolutionary hypotheses. identify specific modes of cultural transmission. This approach =

leverages the fact that the archaeological record is, ina sense, — S
simply a spatially and temporally expansive account of artefact

2. Current archaeological strengths: identifying variation, interpreted in terms of human behaviour. Inferring -
past behaviours from patterns of artefact variation requiresa ‘>
patterns and processes reliable measure of variability and a body of theory equipped ws
Archaeological definitions of cultural evolution have varied to distinguish its potential sources. Bettinger & Eerkens ~
through time and have only recently come to include concepts [12-15] have been particularly influential in this arena, explor- =
and methods informed by the modern evolutionary synthesis ing a variety of measures of within- and between-group Ss
(sensu Huxley [6]; for archaeological histories see [2,7,8]). variability (where groups are sets of artefact, sites, etc.) to ‘con- Ni
Three such approaches currently applied in archaeology are struct models that produce objective, explicit predictions about
human behavioural ecology (HBE), phylogenetics and cultural how variability should behave under different natural and
transmission theory. To date, HBE has enjoyed the widest cultural forces at various spatial and temporal scales’ [15, p. 38].