treatments did spend longer average amounts of time on across the available fomites. Future studies could quantify a
feeders in week 3 PI (figure 2b), which was consistent with the rate of pathogen deposition onto feeding ports across s
our predictions and may partly explain the higher rates of feeder densities to test for augmentation or dilution of patho- a
disease transmission in groups with high feeder densities. gen levels on feeder surfaces as a result of idiosyncratic feeding = 2
Furthermore, index birds in the high feeder density treatment preferences by infectious individuals. 3
maintained higher body mass than those in the low feeder Our feeder density treatment did cause predicted changes =
density treatment, despite having equal mass at capture. in intraspecific aggression, with birds in the low feeder den- =
These results are consistent with past work which found sity treatment engaging in more aggressive displacements at “>
higher body condition (mass scaled for body size) in free- the limited feeder ports than those in the high feeder density ©
living birds foraging at sites with bird feeders present [5]. groups. These short-term indirect contacts at the feeders, and -5
The higher body mass of index birds at high feeder densities, potentially direct contacts through the process of an agonistic =
despite only weak effects of feeder density on the time index displacement, did not, however, translate to higher disease =
birds spent on feeders, suggests that index birds at high transmission. In fact, we significantly found lower rates of -
feeder densities may have consumed more food than at low clinical disease at low feeder density, suggesting that, in con- 2
feeder densities, potentially resulting in more pathogen depo- trast to other wildlife diseases [36], aggressive interactions are S
sition while feeding. It is also possible, however, that some not likely to drive transmission success in the finch-Mg w
other physiological process (e.g. differences in metabolism system. Consistent with the higher levels of aggression
or body mass regulation based on the perception of food detected, we also found that finches in the low feeder density ©
availability), rather than differences in food intake, drove groups exhibited shorter following latencies. This is likely S
this discrepancy in mass. due to the fact that heightened competition for limited 5

Similar to the patterns detected for the time spent on the resource access leads to quick turnover at feeder ports. How-
feeder, we did not detect consistent treatment differences in ever, given that rates of clinical disease were lowest in groups
the average length of feeding bouts, another behaviour that with the longest following latencies, it appears that closely
could potentially influence Mg exposure or deposition at following an index bird at the same feeder port is also not