30000 words. Analysis of naming and lexical decision concepts are grounded first of all directly in action, percep-
response time on a selected sample of 500 concepts docu- tion and emotional system; (ii) language plays a major role
ments the importance of interoceptive information for the in the representation of abstract concepts; (iii) language
perceptual grounding of abstract concepts, and even more influence is flexible and context-dependent; (iv) the role of
of emotional concepts. language differs over the course of development.

Going beyond merely sensorimotor resources, in his Lupyan and Winter [33] address two apparently related
Opinion piece, Shea [30] explores whether metacognition questions: how abstract is language, and why isn’t language
about concepts—the thoughts and feelings that thinkers more iconic (iconicity = similarity between form of words
have about a concept—can itself ground abstract concepts. and word meanings)? They demonstrate that abstractness is
Focusing on how abstract concept can be grounded in charac- a pervasive linguistic phenomenon, and contend that in
teristics that make them distinctive from one another, Shea order to understand it we should turn to language. Language
identifies two examples of this possibility. One such example namely describes facts that guide our actions, it helps categ-
is the judgement that we should defer to others in how a orization, and language statistics provide a rich source of
given concept is used. Shea argues that metacognitive defer- knowledge. The authors propose that languages are not
ence can either be explicit or implicit, but that in both forms it highly iconic exactly because abstractness is so pervasive.
can provide a new resource to understand how some abstract Highly iconic words do not have an arbitrary relationship

concepts are grounded. Another example is our internal to their referents, they are more concrete and connected to


more specific contexts than abstract words. If languages were
highly iconic they would lose some of the flexibility that
guarantee the possibility to abstract. Iconicity would thus
render it more difficult, both to learn and to express abstract