formation in chemical systems was initiated by Alan Turing analysis for a general reaction—diffusion system with two
in 1952 [1]. In his seminal article on The chemical basis of mor- chemical components, but also discussed (oscillatory) cases
phogenesis, Turing showed that the interplay between with three components. For 20 years his results received
molecular diffusion and chemical interactions can give rise very little attention. It was only in 1972 when Segel & Jackson
to an instability of the spatially uniform state. His general [3] first interpreted Turing’s linear stability analysis of the
finding was that in a system with multiple reacting com- two-component model, while Gierer & Meinhardt [4] in the
ponents diffusing laterally on different time scales, the same year proposed a number of specific two-component
diffusive coupling itself can cause an instability even if models and coined the terms ‘activator’, ‘inhibitor’ and
the system is in a stable chemical equilibrium. Turing ‘activator—inhibitor mechanism’ in this context.

was the first to introduce a linear stability analysis for Unfortunately, nowadays the terms ‘activator—inhibitor
reaction-diffusion systems. To give the reader an impression mechanism’ and ‘Turing instability’ are often thought to
of the generality of his ideas, let us briefly summarize the refer to identical concepts, despite the fact that the ‘activa-
underlying mathematical concepts: The initial idea is that tor-inhibitor mechanism’ only represents a_ particular
any random perturbation of a uniform steady state can be interpretation of Turing’s proof of principle analysis that is
decomposed in Fourier modes ~cos(qx) (figure 1a). As long specific to some but not all two-component models. Further-
as amplitudes are small, each of these modes grows or more, note that Turing’s general idea of a lateral instability is
decays exponentially ~ exp (ot) cos (qx), depending on the in fact not even limited to a particular number of chemical
sign of the growth rate a, (or more precisely the real parts components. In the literature, the ‘activator—inhibitor
Re[o;]). By linear stability analysis one computes the growth mechanism’ is usually considered as a combination of ‘short-
rates for modes with any wavenumber q. Turing found that range activation’ and ‘long-range inhibition’ or of ‘local
the interaction between chemical reactions and molecular dif- activation’ and ‘lateral inhibition’ in order to convey the
fusion can give rise to bands of unstable modes with positive following heuristic picture [2,5,6]:

growth rates, i.e. situations where some modes with particular Consider two chemical components. First, the (short