Here, I would like to propose a different hypothesis, which other object properties [80]), we can expect similar associations
has the advantage of being amenable to empirical testing to occur for continuous physical variables as well when tested
(figure 7). It has been argued that there exists a fundamental in isolation (e.g. that a change from a large-size stimulus to a
brain asymmetry in the control of functions related to motiv- small-size one would induce, via right hemispheric activation,
ation and emotion, sometimes referred to as the ‘valence preferential allocation of attention in the left hemispace).
hypothesis’ [76]. For example, it appears that the anterior Recent work in human neuropsychology by Brookshire &
regions of the left and right hemispheres are specialized for Casasanto [81] suggests that neural circuits for affective
approach and withdrawal processes, respectively, and thus motivation may re-use circuits evolved for performing
associated with positive and negative emotions. Although motor actions, and reports that individuals with strong
the valence theory was mainly developed in the context of motor asymmetries in a particular direction can actually
human neuropsychology, approach and withdrawal are fun- show reversal of direction of left-right biases associated
damental motivational dimensions that may be found at any with motivation. Testing with animals artificially selected
level of phylogeny, and in fact there is also evidence support- for lateralization in a particular direction may prove revealing
ing the theory in non-human species (e.g. [77]; see reviews in (see, for instance, for fish [82,83]). Finally, whether this idea
[78,79]). Now, let us imagine that, even if not explicitly trained would also apply to the several other associations that
for such an association, animals establish (other conditions humans seem to form between space and number and
being equal) that for appetitive stimuli, larger magnitudes time and other quantities—the so-called ‘universal mental
are intrinsically better (and approachable) than smaller magni- quantity line’ [84]—is open to empirical test.
tudes. Then, chicks in Rugani et al.’s [48] experiments were In conclusion, coming back to the original question we
faced with either abrupt increase or abrupt decrease in numer- asked in this paper, it is apparent in my view that the road
osities that would accordingly have evoked preferential from behaviour to the underlying mechanisms in different
activation of, respectively, the left hemisphere (positive species is a tortuous one. We should be very cautious and
emotion, approach) or the right hemisphere (negative emotion, attentive to the possibility of resemblances in behaviour
withdrawal). This, in turn, would have promoted turning to that reflect true homologies and others that may be the out-
the contralateral side of the activated hemisphere, i.e. to come of homoplasic systems or that may be associated with