
mation. Shannon articulated this deeply important point in 5. Where to look for Insp ration
an opening paragraph of the paper that created information The neuroscientific literature contains little in the way of sugges-
theory [30, p. 379]: ‘Frequently the messages [to be conveyed] tions as to how brains might covey quantitative information into
have meaning; that is they refer to or are correlated according the indefinite future in computationally accessible form. When it
to some system with certain physical or conceptual entities. comes to memory, neuroscientists have adopted the perspective
These semantic aspects of conmunication are irrelevant to the engin- of associationist philosophers and the behaviourist psycholo-
eering problem. The significant aspect is that the actual message gists: they conceptualize memory as the process of forming
is one selected from a set of possible messages. The system must associative bonds of varying strengths [32-34]. These are
be designed to operate for each possible selection, not just the one called connection weights, Hebbian synapses, plastic synapses
which will actually be chosen since this is unknown at the oraltered synaptic conductances. They are thought to determine
time of design’. [italics mine] how a neural network maps input vectors to output vectors, but
Memory is commonly discussed in domain-specific they are not generally thought to encode quantitative facts about
terms—‘working memory’, ‘long-term memory’, ‘spatial the experienced world [35].
memory’, ‘emotional memory’, ‘declarative memory’, ‘proce- Only in molecular biology and computer science do we
dural memory’, ‘motor memory’ and so on. These discussions find treatments of information storage. Molecular biology
fail to distinguish, on the one hand, between what an entity deals with the conveyance of heritable information from

in memory refers to and how it enters into the control of generation to generation for use in directing the building of


the organism and controlling much of its physiology and
behaviour. Computer science deals with the conveyance of
acquired information forward in time for use in future com-
putations. In both cases, the memory code is foundational.