Figure 6. The structure of the Havana prevalence study [63] with a summary of general cognitive ability [82, p. 198]. ;

the results, BNB, computerized basic numerical battery. (Online version in colour.) At the same time, there are grounds for preferring the

second hypothesis. First because some 30% of the genetic
variation in a large twin sample of 7-year-olds is specific to

that those with ‘mathematical disabilities’ (below 90 on the mathematics performance in school [83]; see below. Second,
WIAT-II_ Numerical Operations subtest [13]), compared there is the specificity of the neural substrate for core arithme-
with controls, showed hyper-connectivity of the IPS with a tical abilities, and the selectivity of dyscalculia, as we have
‘bilateral fronto-parietal network’, that is, the network shown. We have noted that individuals from widely different
known to be active when carrying out numerical tasks [80]. cultures—from trading and non-trading cultures, and even
In fact, the resting state functional connectivity in links from cultures with no counting practices and no counting
between regions known to be involved in calculation was words—nevertheless possessed a capacity for making
negatively correlated with numerical operations. Now these decisions on the basis of numerical information [58].
children are not dyscalculic by the criteria I have been advo- We should also note that infants, even in the first week of
cating. Indeed, some of them could be classified as normal, life, before they had much opportunity to learn about numer-
that is, within 1 s.d. of the population mean. It is not clear osities, could make discriminations on the basis of the
why the fronto-parietal network should be more connected numerosity of visual displays [84,85], and that at six
than controls, except perhaps that lower calculation profi- months they responded more abstractly, to the correlation
ciency means that not only the relevant regions, but also of the numerosity of a visual and an auditory display [86].
the connections between them, are more active. At this age, they can also carry out very simple addition
On the other hand, a study of 12 dyscalculics between 8 and subtraction [87]. This suggests that the bases of these
and 14 years relative to matched controls showed an age capacities is not induced by education or culture but is innate.
