IPS involvement, especially in the right hemisphere, could negative than for positive words [79]. Other dimensions have
reflect the activation of a generalized magnitude system, as also been proposed to describe emotional stimuli. For example,
proposed by A Theory of Magnitude (ATOM) [69,70]. a word can be classified according to whether it is ‘biological’,
ATOM suggests a single system responsible for many types that is, if its emotional content is relevant to evolutionary
of magnitude estimations, including those for time, space success [80]. However, arousal and valence are the most
and number, with the right parietal lobe as the key com- commonly studied in psycholinguistic evaluations of emotion.
ponent. Neuroanatomy suggests that such common Emotional arousal and valence are often cited as playing a
representations are grounded in action—perception systems. critical role in the difference between abstract semantics and
To argue that these magnitude representations are abstract, concrete semantics [7,81,82]. Abstract words, in general,
positive evidence would need to be provided to the effect tend to be more emotionally valenced than concrete words
that they do not contain any spatial or action components. [83] and, within the domain of abstract words, highly arous-
The lack of frontal activation in the current meta-analysis ing words elicit different behaviours from emotionally
might reflect the fact that we only selected studies that used neutral words; the distribution of lexical decision reaction
‘simple’ number tasks like numerical comparison, whereas times is narrower and earlier for emotional words [84].
studies of numerical cognition typically include a wide There is even evidence for a specific role of emotion in proces-
array of tasks that involve additional arithmetic processing sing abstract concepts that is absent in concrete concepts:
[47]. Similarly, while AG was seen in the three other domains behavioural performance [85,86] and deterioration of seman-
meta-analysed below, its absence from the current domain is tic memory in Alzheimer’s dementia patients [87] show
noteworthy, given its strong association with numerical cog- effects of emotional content within abstract words but not
nition [71]. This can also be explained by the fact that AG is within concrete words. This suggests that the emotional
most commonly seen in tasks that involve calculation. During information associated with abstract words is uniquely criti-
calculation, it is involved with recall of memorized math- cal to how their meanings are stored in the brain. We
ematical facts (such as 3 x 4 = 12) [72] and transfer of facts performed a meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies that

between calculations [73]. Involvement of AG is likely examined affect through verbal materials.