ing the role of language in our concepts. Given this, one might employ a time-moving perspective.

wonder whether or not it has any predictive bite. In this section, An additional prediction associated with the disruptive

I hope to demonstrate that it does by examining a particular technology view—one that is not typically associated with


embodied accounts of metaphor—is that some uses of metaphor supported by a recent experiment: after introducing a novel 6 |

may not engage sensorimotor simulations but rather depend on metaphor connecting time and weight (the past is heavy and
linguistic associations. This prediction fits with the hypothesis the present is light), congruency effects were found in the a
that some metaphors may undergo a gradual process of conven- weight judgements of books that appeared new or old [133]. s
tionalization as they become more familiar [126]. Desai et al. It is also supported by the fact that providing participants a
[127] examine the brain activation elicited by four types of sen- with a brief exposure to mirror-reversed orthography can = 2:
tences: literal action sentences (The instructor is grasping the reverse the orientation of the congruency effects on temporal 5
steering wheel very tightly.), non-idiomatic metaphor sentences judgements associated with a particular language [134]. Some =
(The congress is grasping the state of affairs.), idiomatic meta- recent evidence also suggests that language-specific metaphors =
phor sentences (The congress is grasping at straws in the may build upon preexisting non-linguistic embodied map- ‘S
crisis.) and abstract sentences (The congress is causing a big pings. Whereas speakers of Dutch tend to talk of musical ©
trade deficit again.). They found that higher-level sensorimotor pitch in terms of height (the way that we do in English), speak- 5
regions associated with the described actions showed increased ers of Farsi tend to talk of it in terms of thickness [135]. These =
activation with both the action and the non-idiomatic metaphor different linguistic metaphors appear to influence how Dutch =
sentences but not with the idiomatic metaphor or abstract sen- and Farsi speakers reproduce recently heard musical pitches -
tences. This suggests that sensorimotor simulations are not in the presence of irrelevant spatial information involving 2
essential for the semantic processing of these idioms and fits either height or thickness [136]. A follow-up study finds that S