the thalamus. A rather different study found that an index (hypothetically by affecting the hypothalamus) and selective
of ‘Openness to Experience’, especially aspects relating to attention to important events (by affecting the septo-hippo-
flexibility (Openness to Actions and Values), was negatively campal system) [68]. These roles were distinguished from
related to 5-HT transporter binding in the midbrain, putamen that produced by manipulations of 5-HT, which was postu-
and thalamus [60]. This work thus intriguingly links well to lated to have a crucial role in ‘behavioural inhibition’ in the
studies suggesting a role for 5-HT in individual differences septo-hippocampal system [68]. Both neurotransmitter sys-
in perseverative behaviour [49], which however, specifically tems were thus assumed to contribute to anxiety, although
implicates the orbitofrontal cortex (see above). in distinct ways. Subsequent manifestations of the theory
By contrast, Allen & DeYoung [15] have postulated that [69] have had relatively little to say about the respective
serotonin is implicated in ‘Stability’ ‘representing shared var- roles of these modulatory systems, while partially embracing
iance of Conscientiousness, Agreeableness and low the hypothesis of Deakin & Graeff [35] described above, and
Neuroticism’, but this hypothesis appears to run against the actually rejecting the idea that hypothalamic NA is respon-
evidence from the animal studies described above. It under- sible for mediating behavioural ‘arousal’. In fact, several
lines the fact that it is difficult to come to any conclusion neurochemical influences on septo-hippocampal function
about a unitary function for serotonin, however general, have subsequently been postulated, including cholinergic as
that can account for all of the data, and agrees with the well as monoaminergic influences, leading to a suggestion
likely diverse influence of this neurotransmitter in different that there may be several distinct neurochemical forms of
forebrain circuits. ‘arousal’, [70] a position previously arrived at, though

based on somewhat different evidence, by Robbins & Everitt
[63]. This position is compatible with hypotheses that neuro-

4, Noradrenaline, acetylcholine and other transmitters such as NA and acetylcholine modulate more

. basic processes of alerting, orienting and selective attention,