potentially across the first several years of life. The impact
of the stress hormone cortisol in typical fetal and infant

3. Infant neurohormones associated with development is important to understand.
. . Across fetal and infant development, the neuroendocrine
temperament: cortisol and oxytoan systems continue to strengthen [49] and are impacted by
What do contemporary scientists know about prenatal and their interactions with the postnatal environment. The pattern
infant physiological and biological underpinning associated of cortisol reactivity and regulation in infancy has also been
with individual development? The prenatal period is a cru- shown to differ significantly from that of a child or an adult
cial time for fetal neurodevelopment wherein an array of [54]. Infants do not seem to have the same circadian patterns
hormonal exposures can lead to potentially long-term of cortisol release throughout the first few months [55]. Collec-
health and mental health effects as well as changes in brain tively, studies have demonstrated that infants’ cortisol
physiology [42]. In fact, Stuebe et al. [43] delineate more reactivity, their circadian rhythms and their feeding and sleep-
than 15 different hormones that could potentially be involved ing patterns differentially impact their cortisol levels, although
with fetal and infant developmental patterns, including hor- generally reactive cortisol responses are moderate during stres-
mones that have to do with birthing, breastfeeding, maternal sor exposures. An increase in cortisol, followed by a fairly quick
psychological conditions and other neuroendocrine and neu- response cessation, is an adaptive event, as cortisol mobilizes
rophysiological processes occurring during gestation and energy in order to provide the periphery with the fuel necess-
infant development. A significant number of neuroendocrine ary to increase perceptual awareness and attention to deal with
processes can potentially influence and interact in the devel- acute stress [56]. Furthermore, in very young infants, a hypo-
oping fetus and infant during the transition from the fetal reactive period following stress may protect the infant's brain
environment to postnatal life [43,44]. Paradoxically, much while it is adjusting to postnatal life [50]. Thus, moderate
of this work is on the dysregulation of neurohormonal factors stress can actually be seen as adaptive as it offers some post-
and less is known about typical neurohormonal develop- natal neurodevelopmental benefits for the offspring; extreme
ment. For example, we [44] showed that neuro-regulatory and/or chronic stress has been found to have harmful effects