actions; [85,89]). Mice lacking the DOPr-1 genes showed sions. Independence (orthogonality) between parameters (or S
igher impulsivity, but lower plasticity (a deficient control whatever word we want to use—variables, scales, dimensions, w
over when behaviour should start and stop) [85,90]. It is classes, components) is, therefore, important for this approach. — ¥”
ard to tell to what degree these effects were due to DOPr The first dimensional model was described by Kant in 1798 ©
versus DA action since both DOPr and MOPr regulate DA [96]. He mapped the four Hippocratic temperament types ©
release [7], which in turn (as noted above) was implicated into the quadrants of two dimensions ‘Energy (Activity)’ ga
in behavioural plasticity and prioritizing motor, cognitive, and ‘Emotionality’. Two dimensions that are similar to this
perceptual and motivational elements of behaviour. The model (i.e. ‘energetic’ and emotionality-related) have been
association of DOPr action with the initiation of actions described in all major models of individual differences (see
rather than emotionality is in line with DOPr being primarily [17,18] for review). In psychiatry most common models were
located in the basal ganglia and neocortex (i.e. areas of the based on different dimensions related to emotional positive—
brain implicated in the preparation and integration of actions negative valence. The prototypical models of this second
rather than sensory—motivational processes) [91,92]. In fact group were offered by Kraepelin and Kretschmer [97,98],
the thalamus, usually associated with sensory and pain pro- and in the 1970—80s temperament models with dimensions
cessing, has the lowest density of DOPr [92,93], which would of Positive and Negative Affects (PNA) became prominent in
not be expected if DOPr action was primarily to control psychiatry (for example, [99-104)).
sensitivity to pain or pleasure. However, even for the cases Initially differential psychologists did not take the PNA
of regions with high density of receptors, see our endnote 1. model seriously since it looked rather simple. After all,

Finally, kappa-opioid receptors (KOPrs) have been linked to Approach—Withdrawal behaviour can be observed even in

sensory mobilization processes, aversion, chronic anxiety, single cell organisms such as amoebae [105], and intuitively
allucinations and malaise, activation of NA and stress people understood that there is more to biologically-based
ormones release and dispositional HPA axis arousal traits than just emotional valence. Much more credit has
7,73,74,81,94]. In animals with a deficiency of dynorphin/ been given in the past 20 years to a lexically-derived