the same dynamical content as the dynamics observed in a non- the same in both states of the protein; just various distances are
equilibrium experiment (such as pump-probe spectroscopy). weighted differently. The overlapping distributions of Ca-
This equivalence is a consequence of Onsager’s regression distances therefore seem to directly support the classic view
hypothesis [71] which, however, holds only in the case of of a population shift model [2].
small non-equilibrium perturbations that explore regions on The principal component analysis, on the the other hand,
the free-energy surface that are not outside the energy land- maximizes the separation between the two states by including
scape explored in the equilibrium case. In the case of the all correlations between structural measures that go into the
photoswitchable PDZ2 domain studied here, the linear analysis. From the one-dimensional projection in figure 5,
response assumption may become questionable. First, it is the overlap of both distributions is only 6%, which reduces
clear from the discussion of figure 2 that the mechanical further to 0.6% when the overlap is calculated using the first
response of the protein (including overshootings, etc.) is inelas- seven principal components which show structured distri-
tic, because, for example, contacts are broken and formed. These butions and slowly decaying autocorrelation functions [32].
findings cannot be described by a harmonic force field (used, As in fact the effective dimensionality of the dynamical
e.g. in the popular elastic network models [72,73]), in which system may be larger than seven [75-78], we expect the true
all forces are linear. MD simulations using common biomo- overlap to be even smaller. That is, by employing a reaction
lecular force fields as well as NMR experiments, on the other coordinate that is able to account for the global conformational
hand, certainly may account for these effects. rearrangement of the allosteric transition, we find that free-
It is less clear, though, if the basic assumption of Onsager’s energy surfaces of the cis and trans equilibrium states hardly
regression hypothesis is appropriate; i.e. if the non-equilibrium overlap. Given the limited sampling of equilibrium MD trajec-
perturbations explore the same free-energy surface than the tories, however, some asymptotically small overlap of the
equilibrium states. This hypothesis is also presumed by the equilibrium energy landscapes with the full range of the
‘population shift’ model, which explains allostery in terms of non-equilibrium energy surface can never be ruled out. In
a shift of the population probability of various equilibrium that sense, the possible equivalence of visited equilibrium
states [2]. Employing a principle component analysis, we and non-equilibrium phase spaces becomes a somewhat
