presentations of the CS+ without the UCS, the defensive response usually diminishes, a process that is referred to as ‘extinction
learning’. Innon-human animals, defensive responses are typically measured by assessing the amount of freezing in response to
the CS, or avoidance behaviour; in humans, common measures include skin conductance responses, acoustic startle responses,
heart rate, pupil dilation responses, action tendencies, UCS expectancies and subjective distress (figure 2).

compromising voluntary attempts to access the same infor- in response to conditioned pictures), but not on other types
mation or skill (figure 1). Voluntary forms of memory need to (e.g. expectancy ratings of the likelihood of an aversive conse-
be preserved, e.g. for legal reasons a person may need to quence) (e.g. [58,76,77]). Thus, it appears possible that rather
recount details of a trauma (eye witness testimonies and than the whole memory, involuntary non-declarative aspects
asylum reports). The simultaneous consideration of involuntary can be selectively targeted. Such dissociations are crucial
and voluntary retrieval of the same events should be a more when designing interventions for disorders such as PTSD:
central feature of traumatic stress research. which aspects of memory can we modify, and is the aspect
Successful translation of insights from basic science to that can be modified, in fact, clinically meaningful?
inform clinical interventions (figure 2), depends on a clear con- Although aversive conditioning very precisely models the
ceptualization of what type of memory is being targeted, and formation of associations between environmental stimuli and
how to model this. A widely used experimental model of allows research across species, it does not model one of the
traumatic stress responses and other types of aversive learning core symptoms of PTSD: intrusive memories of the traumatic
has been Pavlovian conditioning (box 1). Research using this event. Involuntary retrieval of an intrusive memory is not the
paradigm in rodents shows that it is possible to selectively same as a conditioned physiological response: it (also)
update one (aspect of) memory, without affecting another involves consciously retrieving a memory, i.e. drawing from
[72-74], and one response system (e.g. reducing freezing to a the declarative memory system. Relatedly, physiological
conditioned stimulus), but not another (alleviating suppressed responses to trauma reminders are listed as a separate symp-
reward seeking after conditioning) [75]. Similarly, many tom from intrusive memories in the DSM-5 [3]; see earlier.
interventions based on this paradigm in humans show effects Although a defensive response may very well be part of an
