follow-up study [124]. It should be noted that both studies updating appears to take place [98,138—140]. Some clinical
had several important limitations, such as small sample pilot studies [118,123,124] have used script-driven imagery
sizes [118,124] and lack of control groups for either the for the reactivation of the trauma memory, similar to EMDR-
effects of reactivation [118] or general drug effects [124]. It like treatments: the question is whether the method of retrieval
is important to follow this up and delineate boundary con- used in these treatments (prolonged, and with no obvious vio-
ditions that arise during the complexity of clinical lation of expectancy) would have triggered reconsolidation, or
translation. Failed replications are not unique to clinical set- instead extinction learning. Furthermore, memory read-outs
tings: pharmacological [125] and extinction procedures during an intervention should not be mistaken for clinical tar-
within the reconsolidation window [97,126—129] have some- gets. For example, a clinician may be inclined to continue a
times not replicated—though note that there are more reactivation procedure until a decline in physiological arousal
successful replications than non-replications. Furthermore, or subjective distress in response to trauma cues is observed.
there is evidence that the procedure does not work strongly Yet, such a focus on acute fear relief may be counterproductive,
enough to eliminate all involuntary recall for everyone and by inducing extinction learning, in fact prevent modifi-

[115,130]. Occasional (or partial) non-replications are to be cation of the original trauma memory [98,138-140]. This


would have enormous implications for clinical practice, unwanted emotional memories. Yet, to capture emotional | 10 |

suggesting that therapists should not merely rely on seeing memory in its full complexity, including its malleability and
direct within-session change, but should prioritize capturing its context-dependent activation, science cannot rely on a a
longer-term effects, i.e. after their therapy session has ended. single method, species or paradigm. Indeed, work on s
This touches on an important point: we do not currently memory updating, including reconsolidation, has been con- a
have an index for memory destabilization or reconsolidation, ducted in different species (e.g. crabs, mice, rats and humans), — 2
other than inferring it retrospectively from the strength of different paradigms (e.g. classical context and cue conditioning, 5