imply the transfer of materials, money, and ideas. In fact, brium. They have been primarily explored at cross-sections
most social relations do invoke physical movement at some in time while their dynamics has been, at best, implicit, lar-
stage but in many discussions, this remains implicit. For gely because of severe limits on our ability to observe them
example, the recent growth in network science has not in the aggregate or even at the level of individual behaviour
focused very strongly on networks embedded in physical over time.
space for social networks which have driven applications Cities are thus primarily studied starting from their
are essentially topological and relational [4]. Here we will physical representation either at the scale of buildings
take the opposite approach rooting our presentation in which is essentially architectural or at the scale of the
explaining and visualizing patterns of movement that take complete system, the entire town or metropolis which is
place in physical space, often ignoring the detailed rationale essentially geographical. There is a strong disciplinary
for movement but always aware of the fact that our approach divide between these two perspectives which is reflected
needs to be complemented by many other perspectives. In not only in what is articulated but also how their study
fact, the city is a many-facetted object or system of study takes place. At the finest scale, cities are essentially sets of
and it is unlikely that there will ever be any comprehensive buildings where the focus is on the building use, construction
theory that relates all its dimensions. It is the example of a and design. In contrast at the city scale, the focus is on how
complex system par excellence [5] where a complete expla- different locations relate to one another in terms of their
nation of its form and function depends on many uses, their densities, and who and/or what occupies those
disciplines and scientific approaches. locations. These may be anything from street addresses at
The last feature of our study of movement which we need the fine, small-scale to administrative units such as census
to emphasize relates to spatial scale. Although all the trajec- tracts at the coarse, larger-scale. Thus the focus at the small-

tories that we assemble here are traced from individual scale is essentially architectural and also possibly through


the lens of engineering while at the large-scale, it is socio- undesirable effects can occur. The classic example is the pro- | 3 |