packets, or materials while networks pertain to the physical In the last one hundred years, the main networks that ©
characteristics of channels. In one sense, flows pertain to have come to describe cities have been those based on trans- — &
activity locations while channels pertain to the physicality portation with road, rail, bus, walk and cycle modes being
of the environment in the same way buildings are defined. the most obvious and often sharing common physical infra-
This mixture can be confusing and one has to exercise great structure. Material flows which use these networks have
care in combining and comparing interactions which involve also been separated from people flows but flows of infor-
both flows and their networks as conceived in terms of mation such as telegraph messages and telephone calls
channels. have barely been charted since their inception, notwithstand-
We must first make two sets of distinctions between short ing early efforts to describe their significance to the form and
and long time scales, and between fine and coarse spatial function of the city [10,11]. Until the 1960s, computers were
scales. Different kinds of movement take place across differ- not generating flows of information in anything other than
ent types of space and over different time intervals, and at the most local scale of the machines themselves and their
this is further complicated by the fact that movements that off-line users but with the emergence of the Internet from
occur frequently over short time periods might also change that time on, email began to grow. With the development
their form and function less frequently over longer time of the web, search, hand-held devices, and social media
periods. The same is true for movements across spatial since the late 1990s, dramatic amounts of information are
scales in that movements that take place, let us say within a now circulating around cities which are probably having a
building on a real-time basis, might change and can then major impact on many traditional patterns of location. All
be aggregated up to the neighbourhood scale. Many changes of these flows are pictured more with respect to their net-
across these scales involve changes which show themselves in works than the volume and capacities of their flow systems.
the individual elements at the finest scale. Again this can be To an extent, flows and networks are different sides of the
potentially confusing because movement takes place in real same coin—one cannot exist without the other but it is the
time in any case and it is only when we aggregate it over measurement of flows that is the most problematic, largely
space and time do we see different patterns across these because of the invisibility of this data. Over longer periods
scales. It is when these patterns change over longer time of time, we can observe changes in where people live and