groomed, protected and carried a dead red-tailed monkey born). This suggests that handling the infant alive may be an
for 43 days, latterly only a skeleton [29]. These latter cases important precursor for hormonal effects to initiate carrying
suggest that carrying and nurturant behaviour towards a and nurturant behaviour. Perhaps when cycling later
corpse is not dependent on pre-mortem bond formation. resumes the mother continues to transport the corpse, but
This also applies to tending, carrying and extended carrying ‘views’ the infant-corpse differently. This further underlines
by mothers of stillborn infants [30], though hormonal the need for hormonal sampling. However, increased time
factors may influence such responses. for bonding may still be a predictor among mothers whose
Third, if maternal-bond strength alone determined carry- infants die above a certain age, e.g. without influence of
ing, presumably infants surviving longer prior to death, perinatal /lactation hormones.
allowing more time for mothers to form a strong bond, An intuitive assumption is that mothers must recognize
would more likely be carried than those dead soon after their infant as dead due to the lack of response when they
birth [14,31]. However, longitudinal evidence indicates the direct behaviour toward it. However, this is difficult to estab-
converse [22]. In a pioneering study systematically assessing lish with any certainty. In fact, one explanation for continued
three influencing factors (mothers’ age, infant age and sex) care and carriage rests on the opposite assumption, that
in a population of Japanese macaques over 9 years, 80% of mothers do not ‘realize’ the infant is dead [22], instead con-
carried infant-corpses died within 30 days of birth. Further, sidering it unconscious/unanimated [24]. Perhaps females
mothers carried less than 5% of infants that died between inexperienced as mothers or at encountering dead individ-
31 and 253 days old. When considering influence of infant uals are more likely ‘confused’ and so more likely to carry
age at death, predictions should correspond to biologically than more experienced mothers [22]. Indeed, apparent
meaningful infant developmental stages. In Japanese maca- ‘grief’ may be difficult to distinguish operationally from pos-
ques, 30 days coincides with a transition from high to lower sible ‘confusion’. Inspection by a chimpanzee mother of her
dependency; from travelling while clinging to their mother dead infant has been interpreted as potentially gaining sen-
and getting pulled back/retrieved if they wander, to sory cues, leading to learning about death [3]. Some
following behind more independently [22]. If maternal be- authors have suggested that nulliparous females may be pre-
haviour to infant-corpses is interpreted as a continuation disposed to handle dead infants to learn mothering skills