to disease or increase the risk of attack from dangerous in our area, scavenging accounts for a minority of a crow’s s
scavengers, such as stinging insects or larger predators diet, crows are known to scavenge both pigeons and squirrels a
[9-12]. Therefore, what purpose, if any, these interactions ([22]; K.S. personal observation). By contrast, crows are not 3
serve remains unclear. known to regularly scavenge conspecifics [23]. Given that 5
Tactile interactions may aid the assessment of an individ- taxidermy-prepared animals are of no real food value, we =
ual’s state or identity, or allow animals to acquire other expect contact with heterospecifics to lack alarm calling and =
important information such as cause of death [8,13]. Alterna- neighbour recruitment, be exploratory and aggressive in ‘S
tively, they may be a by-product of adaptive behaviours such nature, and only last for brief periods until crows determine ‘©
as territory defence, mating or caretaking [4]. To date, motiv- they are of no value. If interactions with dead crows mirror = -5
ations behind mammalian contact with dead conspecifics those with squirrels and pigeons in these ways, it is likely =
remain largely untested. In contrast to large or marine that contact is food motivated. Alternately, efforts to glean =
mammals, systematic studies of death responses among information such as the individual’s state, identity or signs -
birds are more feasible due to the fact that carcasses are smal- of depredation may be responsible for observed contact. If 2
ler and easier to obtain and transport, and limited olfactory such information acquisition motivates tactile interactions, S
abilities enable realistic experiments using taxidermy speci- we expect that interactions will be coupled with alarm calling w
mens. Among birds, some corvids demonstrate consistent and recruitment, be primarily non-aggressive in nature and =
responses to dead conspecifics, though it remains unknown occur frequently and uniformly across the study period. ©
if they engage in tactile interactions. Finally, previous studies have suggested that danger learning
Humans have long noted the attendance of corvids near and avoidance motivate crows’ attraction to dead conspeci- = S
their dead, even incorporating them into their parables, as fics [16]. If crows exhibit a danger response, we expect
is evident in the epigraph we chose to start this paper. higher rates of alarm calling and recruitment coupled with
When confronting a dead conspecific, wild American crows lower rates of contact in contrast to heterospecifics.
(Corvus brachyrhynchos), common ravens (Corvus corax) and We then determine what role stimulus posture has on the
California scrub-jays (Aphelocoma californica) alarm call and occurrence of interactions (Experiment 2). In contrast to food
recruit other birds to the area [14-16]. Following these or information, crows may regularly contact dead crows