PUBLISHING © 2018 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


material, attaching to each other and creating dynamical histories, such that even their everyday use is awkward. | 2 |

structures such as bridges, ladders, holds and temporary Closer inspection only muddies the water further because
nests [12,36-49]. of the way different disciplines claim the high ground with a
The complexity and diversity of structures built by social regards their specific outlook. ‘Space’, for example, is from s
insects is reminiscent of that of human beings [50]. Their one side an enclosure (i.e. it has boundaries) and from the a
construction rules are however radically different. Unlike other the void (i.e. the volume contained within these bound- —2-
human-made constructions that are most often composed of aries). Our capacity to mathematically articulate spatial S
inert and standardized units assembled in a precise order, scenarios gives the impression that ‘space’ is something we =
social insect constructions are built from more plastic and have generally mastered conceptually, but the fact that a con- =
irregular components, and their assemblage results from dis- cise definition evades us implies otherwise. Ss
tributed processes of self-organization with little to no Another case in point is the title of this paper, which is
supervision [13,51,52]. As a result, their structures are less loaded with conceptual connotations. ‘Architecture’, for ~
standardized, but more capable of adjusting their confor- example, is principally concerned with the human-built =
mation in response to changes in the conditions in which environment. It is the practice of designing buildings and =
they are placed [12,37,38,53,54]. articulating how to build the design; not forgetting how to -
The parallels and divergences between the structures built explain the rationale behind the design to demonstrate why 2
by social insects and by humans have sparked a lot of interest that design should be built. Professional architectural S
in the architectural community [55-60]. The natural world societies, such as the Royal Institute of British Architects w
has been an inspiration for architects since antiquity, with (founded to facilitate and promote the advancement of archi-
biology becoming a key influence on design thinking at the tecture) guard the term specifically as referring to buildings ©
turn of the nineteenth century, when the analogical influence designed by architects, and the Architects Registration ©