3 Welfa re comparat ivism and to the extent that, our welfare level at that time would be z
. higher (lower) if that event occurred than it otherwise would be. =
Here is one way in which something may be good for us: it Call this account of something’s overall value ‘welfare S
might be intrinsically good for us, which is to say that it is comparativism’. Versions of this account have been defended -
good for us in itself, good for its own sake. Pleasure is valu- by several theorists [3-5]. &
able to us for its own sake, hence it fits the bill. Contrast By way of illustration, consider that according to welfare S
something like money that is good for us due to things that comparativism having a toothache will be overall bad for us her}
accompany or are caused by it. The value of money hinges assuming that, due to the toothache, our lifetime welfare level ~
entirely on what it buys. There can also be things, such as will be lower than it otherwise would have been. A toothache 2
pain, that are intrinsically bad for us (I will call these intrinsic might also be overall bad for us over a period of time, assuming Ss
evils). that during this time our welfare level would otherwise be S
Something can be good for us in a second way: it might higher. By contrast, a visit to the dentist is likely to be overall
be overall good for us, that is, good for us all things con- good for us. This is true despite the fact that dentists usually
sidered. As a first pass, we might say that something is hurt us. The discomfort involved does not make the visit bad
overall good for us if and only if it makes our lives go for us given the far greater amount of suffering we otherwise
better than they otherwise would have gone. But what is it would have incurred.
for a life that goes one way to be better for us than a life Let me digress briefly to address a question that an evol-
that goes another way? Roughly, the answer is that the utionary biologist might raise about the notion of an overall
level of welfare or (what is the same thing) well-being good, namely this: does what is overall good for us coincide
attained by the one is greater than the level attain by the with what makes us more likely to survive or reproduce? It
other. To make the idea clearer, then, we will need to say does not. To make this clear, we can begin by noting that
something about the notion of welfare. our survival is not intrinsically good for us. Whether (and
How well off we are at a time or over a period of time is the extent to which) it is good for us depends on whether it
determined by the things we accrue during those times that enables us to accrue things that are otherwise good for us.
are intrinsically good for us, such as pleasure, and the What is more, survival need not be in our interests. This is