posthumous harm is the denial of (a). If that suspicion is Suppose we press ahead anyway, and attempt to defend
correct, then accepting (a) clears the way to accepting (b), the idea that the dead are subject to being wronged but not to
together with the conclusion that what happens after we being harmed. Having denied that wronging the dead
die may affect our interests. amounts to some sort of setback or threat to their interests,
With this reasoning in place, we can reach a verdict about presumably we will need to supply an alternative account.
the moral standing of the dead. People may be wronged by But in what else might wronging the dead consist?
things we do after they have died because such actions may We might consider the idea that we are obligated to fulfil
harm them, and, other things being equal, it is wrong to some desires that dead persons once had, despite the fact that
harm someone. the dead are no longer subject to harm or benefit, and that

wronging them simply consists in failing to fulfil these
desires. They have standing, we might add, in virtue of the
fact that (unlike stones) they were once able to want things.

6. Harmlessly wronging the dead However, a further difficulty now arises. We saw earlier
I have defended the claim that the dead have moral standing that one of the main reasons for doubting the possibility of
on the grounds that they have prudential interests. However, posthumous harm is the contention that events occurring
nothing said so far implies that the dead have moral standing after a subject’s death cannot help fulfil that subject’s desires.
only if they have prudential interests. Hence readers who If that claim is true then we are powerless to fulfil any desires
remain skeptical about the interests of the dead might be of the dead, and cannot possibly be duty-bound to do so.
tempted to argue that the dead have standing even though Is there anything we might do for the dead? Only one
they are beyond harm. That the dead are subject to improper other option has any promise: it may be possible to bring
treatment might even explain why they seem vulnerable to about states of affairs that they desired. For example, even if,
harm: perhaps cases in which the dead appear to be after I die, you are powerless to fulfil my desire to do research
harmed are really cases in which they are wronged. In that will lead to a cure for Alzheimer’s disease, you can still