

did not significantly differ from zero. Further, the absolute size In conclusion, our results show that Pavlov was correct: El

of the relationship between personality and cognition was animal personality and cognition are related. However, our
more positive when males or females were tested separately, analysis also revealed high among-study heterogeneity in a
compared with when individuals of both sexes were com- the direction of this relationship. This means that knowing s
bined. This result is somewhat surprising, given that there the personality of an animal (where an individual’s behaviour- a
have been few studies examining sex differences in the relation- al scores fall along a continuum ranging from inactive to 2
ship between personality and cognition, and indeed only a active, for example) does not consistently allow you to predict 5
single study in our sample tested for this relationship in how quickly that animal will learn. Further, we failed to find =
males and females separately [81]. For this reason, and the support for several key hypotheses regarding the relationship =
fact that this effect is primarily driven by the presence of a rela- between personality and cognition, and we hope that these “2
tively few effect sizes of large effect (four and eight effect sizes hypotheses will be re-assessed accordingly. Specifically, ©
for males only and females only, respectively), we interpret this researchers may need to abandon the primary assumption = -5
result cautiously. Nevertheless, we suggest that this pattern that fast-explorers should be fast-learners, while slow- =
merits further investigation, and that researchers should test explorers should be better at reversal learning tasks. Finally, =
for sex differences, including interactions between sex and per- further work is needed in order to identify whether there are -
sonality, in the relationship between personality and cognition other factors that influence the direction of the relationship 2
before data from males and females are combined, and report between cognition and personality. In the light of these results, S
this in the methods or results sections even when there is no we have several recommendations. First, we urge researchers w
significant difference. Sex differences in cognitive abilities has undertaking future work to test for sex differences and inter- =
long been a well-studied area in human psychology [93] and actions between sex, personality and cognitive measures. ©
is beginning to receive attention in studies of animal cognition Secondly, we suggest researchers measure both personality >
(e.g. [94,95,96]). and cognition across several different time points, or in several Ss