probabilistic representations (assignments of credences over a reason, I can’t identify the middle one, which looks like it’s =
space of possibilities concerning the distal scene) that take being stretched and distorted by the outer flankers’ ([39, -
into account, as best they can, expected relationships among p- 1139]) . The evidence for probabilistic perception in a case 2
the scene’s various features; performance, in response to a in which subjects are subjectively guessing does not automati- S
specific query, then involves “sampling” from the probabilistic cally apply to ordinary foveal perception in which a vertical w
representations stored in visual memory’ (italics added). line looks vertical, despite representations in the visual

However, we do not need a query for the vertical grid or vertical system of lower probability tilts. In the Vul ef al. cases, compe- ©
motion to look vertical. Without any particular task or query or tition has broken down and there are many simultaneously ©
focused attention, vertical objects in the world seen foveally present percepts. s
in normal conditions tend to look vertical. You may be reading Further, what Vul et al. describe as sampling from a distri-
this on a computer screen whose sides are vertical and look ver- bution was a matter of making a series of four decisions about
tical despite the fact that there is no task concerning them and what letter was cued. Subjects got monetary rewards, more
you are not attending directly to them. Further, Bayesian money for getting the letter right on the first guess and less
models of sampling standardly require cognitive categories for the subsequent three guesses, so they had to evaluate
imposed in advance as part of the subject's task. In the example which of these conceptual categorizations they were most
above, the categories were tilted left and tilted right. But then the sure of. Their responses required complex cognition involving
same problem arises as already mentioned in connection with the imposition of concepts on whatever perceptual information
confidence. When sampling depends on the imposition of they had.
cognitive categories, that raises the question of the extent to In sum, standard forms of sequential sampling require
which the phenomenology of the conscious state is genuinely the imposition of cognitive categories, something that may
perceptual phenomenology. never be involved in genuine perception. Sampling is more

The basic problem is that sampling models model percep- of a model of perceptual decision than of perception, i.e.
tual decision rather than perception, i.e. the formation of a the formation of percepts. And a highly cited item of evi-