form part of the constitutive basis of consciousness. The meth- always co-instantiated with cognitive access, it will have dis-
odology of subtracting replay activity, however, means that tinctive consequences that causal modelling will uncover. In
results like Frassle et al.’s [61] are silent on this question. For this light, Shea [3] suggests that discovering only one cluster
suppose frontal areas do not cause rivalry transitions, and would be ‘good evidence’ (p. 330) in favour of the access
that disambiguation occurs earlier in the perceptual hierarchy. hypothesis, whereas the discovery of two clusters would be
(For evidence that this is at least sometimes the case, see [69].) ‘some evidence’ (p. 309) against it. In this latter case, our pro-
On this supposition, activity later in the perceptual hierarchy cedure will have arrived at a test (or battery of tests, T;_;) that
may well be identical in (properly matched) replay and riv- provides a better indicator of the presence of consciousness
alry conditions. Consequently, subtraction analysis will not than our initial evidence E. This test will be capable of evi-
reveal any differential activity. For all that, frontal activity dencing consciousness in the absence of access, thereby
may be a necessary condition for conscious perception. overcoming the methodological puzzle.

In fact, there are two possibilities to consider. First, dis- Shea’s paper is ambitious and important. It deserves
tinguish between core and total neural correlates of a given serious study. Here, however, I raise a series of critical
conscious state (NCCs) [70]. A total NCC is the physical issues which cast doubt on the contention that a science of
state unconditionally sufficient for being in a given conscious consciousness that proceeds according to his framework
state. A core NCC is the part of this total realizer responsible will eventually solve the methodological puzzle.
for the state being the specific conscious state it is—crudely, First, Shea’s proposal supposes that, at the outset of
its content. As just argued, results like Frassle et al.’s are inquiry, we have evidence sufficient to provide us with
quite consistent with frontal areas forming part of the core samples that everyone will agree are, respectively, mostly
NCC [71]. This is because they are quite consistent with conscious and mostly not conscious. It is undoubtedly true
content-specific activation in frontal areas being necessary that some measures such as explicit verbal report of aware-
for awareness. However, even if frontal areas exhibit no con- ness do provide fairly uncontroversial positive evidence of
tent-specific frontal activity at all once activity attributable to consciousness. However, such superficial consensus masks
executive upshots of awareness is factored out, frontal areas the fact that even very early on in our inquiry we face pro-