neurons in a Petri dish, or slices of cortex or hippocampus polarization of light. Because our brains support so much — =
as often studied in electrophysiological experiments. Note more concepts and sensory modalities than brains of flies, =
that IIT, in particular, would probably assign higher PHI our visual experience would be richer than that of the fly =
(and hence consciousness) to such preparations than to flies even if the fly brain had the same visual machinery as -
[74]. Another obvious extension would be consciousness in we have. 2
artificial intelligence (AI) systems. It has been argued that This hints towards an important conclusion. What we con- S
current AI generally lacks mechanisms for global access sider highly impaired vision or even blindness, is what the fly w
and availability of information or for metacognition may see consciously. Both species have an unconscious/ =
(required for consciousness according to view 1 above), so conscious dichotomy. When a fly escapes from a swat it &
that fears of conscious machines are premature [85]. executes a very intelligent reflex arc, where it positions its ©
Others, however, have opposed this view, arguing that middle legs to jump in a direction orthogonal to the = =
many AI systems, in fact, do have these properties (either in approaching danger [93], not unlike what we do when a
rudimentary or more advanced forms). Moreover, if conscious large object is looming. After the fact, when recurrent proces-
experience is better explained by recurrent interactions or sing (or information integration) has kicked in, the fly may
information integration (view 2 above), we may already have experience the fear associated with it (flies show fear con-
created conscious machines [86]. ditioning [94]). But the experience will never transcend
Do such considerations falsify current theories of con- beyond ‘something nasty that moved’. In our minds, how-
sciousness? It seems entirely plausible that other animals ever, we will come to recognize that the looming object was
than us have conscious sensations, fitting with the propensity a pick-up truck, running off the road, steered by a bearded
of science to remove man from its pedestal, acknowledging man. We heard the engine roaring, felt the gush of wind
that we are just animals too. On the other hand, it feels unsa- when the car almost hit us. And in doing so we exclude
tisfactory to equate consciousness as we experience it to millions of other possible percepts. So although our reflex
whatever happens in the mind of a fly. IIT as well as recurrent may be similar to that of the fly, the sensory experience
processing theories of consciousness offer some potential sol- that follows is infinitely richer. In fact, what the fly experi-
utions to this problem. Both theories would argue that while ences may be very similar to what we experience in a