paradigms are usually very salient, such as a novel item durably into memory. These experiments [25] also provided =
appearing on screen that is a new colour or shape [23]. The subjective inspiration for distinguishing between phenom-
events are readily visible when a participants’ attention is enal versus access consciousness: in the original paper by
directed toward these events, but—allegedly—become invis- Sperling [25], it is reported that participants felt that ‘they
ible when attention is directed toward another task, such as have seen more than they can remember [or] report after-
counting how many times a distractor shape bounced off wards’. (p. 1). This statement is important because it
the edge of the display. Because the unexpected events stay initially established the phenomenology of iconic memory
in view for several seconds, there is not an obvious need to (one could imagine a case where the same results were
compare the event to a pre-event representation (such as in obtained but where participants were not so sure about
the case of change blindness paradigms), so it seems unlikely what they saw). However, there is perhaps too much empha-
that inattentional blindness would be due to a failure of com- sis on this one statement, because beyond it, Sperling [25] did
parison. However, because participants are only asked about not directly assess participants’ phenomenology. In addition,
their experience of the unexpected event after the fact, it has it is not clear whether the statement reflects participants’
been a long-standing possibility that inattentional blindness initial impression of the display, or their impression after
could be due to a limitation of memory rather than a failure their substantial experience with the display (five partici-
of visual awareness. Until recently, this seemed like an insur- pants took part in seven experiments spread across 12
mountable problem with using inattentional blindness to sessions that were scheduled three times weekly). More
challenge rich phenomenology. recent research using a modified iconic memory paradigm

has shown that feeling that you saw more than you can
report does not guarantee that the in-the-moment phenomen-
ology was of high fidelity: for example, people mistakenly

3. The problem of failures of memory perceive letter-like symbols as real letters when presented
If inattentional blindness can be explained as a failure of alongside normal letters [28].