
threatened species (specificity). Specimen Count and ConR an assumption of continuing future decline in habitat
had lower accuracy (82%) and specificity but ConR compared quality [55]. Thus, despite statements to the contrary, the
favourably in terms of sensitivity, while Specimen Count had resulting preliminary assessments will not be strictly con-
the lowest sensitivity of all methods. The US Method was sistent with the theoretical framework provided by IUCN,
outperformed by all other approaches in terms of accuracy which requires locations to be defined in relation to the
and specificity but did not differ significantly from Random most plausible threat, which will not be habitat decline in
Forests, rCAT or ConR in terms of sensitivity. all cases. Nonetheless, the breadth of functionality offered
Unexpected results. That rCAT, analysing only specimen by this new R package will likely be of interest to those
occurrence data, should match the performance of the wishing to extract maximum value from herbarium data
much more data-intensive Random Forests approach could for extinction risk assessment.
be seen as counterintuitive but it may be attributable in The US Method. The 77% accuracy achieved by US Method
part to the fact that most of the completed extinction risk on our dataset is significantly lower than other approaches
assessments in our dataset were undertaken with the support tested, but it significantly exceeds default accuracy and there-
of GeoCAT, the online tool which uses algorithms almost fore merits consideration. Sensitivity achieved here with US
identical to those of rCAT. Arguably our most surprising Method (86%) does not differ significantly from that achieved
result is that the least data-intensive approach, Specimen with other methods, and is markedly better than the 79%
Count, performed extremely well, matching the classification reported for its use on the Puerto Rico flora [17]. The US
accuracy of ConR, an approach more comparable to rCAT in Method is therefore an interesting option for its proposed
terms of data requirements. purpose, as triage for separating species which are clearly not
Most important predictors. Range (EOO) was the most threatened from those meriting more in-depth analysis [49].

important predictor in our Random Forests model, associated A particular strength is its apparent simplicity, likely to

