wet tropics, but in different ways. In the seasonal forest The effect of soil water deficit is negative upon woody
model, the effect of VPD only has explanatory power in the growth, but this effect is less identifiable in the aseasonal
seasonal component, while the interannual anomaly does wet tropics where soil water deficit seldom deviates from
not appear to be important. Conversely in the aseasonal zero. CWD and MCWD have been highly effective metrics
wet tropics, VPD has no effect upon the seasonal component of water deficit in previous studies [11,62], but here we
(as variation is low in the aseasonal tropics; electronic sup- found TerraClimate’s water deficit estimates to offer greater
plementary material, figure S6), but has a large effect in the predictive ability than (M)CWD. The Thornthwaite—Mather
interannual anomaly term (figure 2b,h). The impediment of water balance model used to produce the water deficit esti-
VPD upon NPP.tem is consistent with stomatal conductance mates in the TerraClimate product may be more effective
models where VPD incurs a nonlinear stomatal limitation than our calculation of (M)CWD because its calculation of
which restricts CO, assimilation rates [36,38]. The inability water deficit includes information on soil water holding
of the seasonal forest model to isolate a consistent VPD capacity and infiltration, and calculates a runoff term. How-
anomaly effect could be due to the fact that the monthly ever, all metrics of water deficit are probably hindered by
range of VPD is far larger in seasonal forest sites (electronic both uncertainty in rainfall estimates, and the current state of
supplementary material, figure S6), and that the dry season high uncertainty around how tropical forest vary their rates
anomalies would have to be very large in absolute units of of evapotranspiration both seasonally and interannually [63].

kPa to significantly further impact stomatal conductance,

because the VPD reduction on stomata closure may have lar- () How much do El Nifio events suppress tropical
gely already been exerted (a visual diagram is shown in Pp P

electronic supplementary material, figure S7). woody growth and what can this tell us about how

Both the seasonal forest and aseasonal wet forest models : . .