tion rates cause fitness though the female sex-function to val to reproduction cannot harbour sexually antagonistic
become increasingly important relative to the male sex- polymorphism in hermaphrodites, because death prior to
function. This female bias probably creates more stringent reproductive maturity affects female and male fitness equally.
conditions for the maintenance of sexually antagonistic Hence, unlike separate-sexed species, sexually antagonistic
polymorphism in partial selfers because selection must, loci in hermaphrodites must affect fitness through reproduc-
on average, be appropriately balanced, with a female- tion, possibly in addition to survival [9]. However, we note
benefit allele that confers weaker benefits for female fitness that correlation between survival and reproductive traits can
than a male-benefit allele does for male fitness, across a hetero- be very important [45] and viability selection could therefore
geneous environment; (iii) spatially variable selection promotes contribute to sexually antagonistic selection on reproductive
the maintenance of sexually antagonistic polymorphism (scen- traits before they are expressed.

ario 3) in predominantly outcrossing populations, but inhibits it Despite these differences, sexual dimorphism in dioe-
for predominant selfers. In fact, the maintenance of sexually cious (separate-sexed plants) or gonochoristic (separate-
antagonistic polymorphism in the face of spatially hetero- sexed animals) species can help identify candidate sexually

geneous selection becomes extremely difficult in populations antagonistic traits in hermaphrodites. In plants, dioecious


species typically evolve from a hermaphrodite ancestor [46]. models of sex allocation [55-57] require that one fitness | 6 |

Theory emphasizes that this transition involves a change in gain function be saturating in order for hermaphroditism to
sex expression (e.g. invasion of unisexual sterility mutations be stable, and it is usually expected that this occurs in the a
[34,47], which we consider a primary sexual character [48]). male function if there are constraints on how many partners s
Therefore, secondary sexual characters (which, by defi- can be fertilized (but see [58] for an example of a saturating a
nition, are sexually dimorphic) of dioecious species may female gain function). Optimal sex allocation depends on = 2-