E E E

Figure 2. Panel showing the results of applying the rewilding assessment framework to three projects, namely the Millingerwaard project (the Netherlands); the Swiss
National Park (Switzerland); and the Ibera project (Argentina). (a) Scores obtained for the variables at the beginning of the project and at present. A description of the
variables and indicators is available in table 1 and electronic supplementary material, table $1. (b) Representation of the estimated scores of direct human inputs and
outputs (H) and ecological integrity of ecosystems (F) in the bi-dimensional framework for each case study. d variables represent the naturalness of disturbances and
stochastic events, c variables represent landscape composition and connectivity and ¢ variable represents the trophic complexity. The arrows indicate the trajectory of
change from the beginning of the projects to present. The rewilding score (A) is placed next to each point in time and has been calculated on the basis of the scores
shown in (a). Photographs courtesy of Rijkswaterstaat, SNP/H. Lozza and N. Fernandez. (Online version in colour.)

out long-term ecological targets for the system (i.e. the recov- land. However, the framework also allows for the refinement
ery of more complex ecosystems), providing guiding goals for and inclusion of new indicators as needed. Future iterations
rewilding in the medium- and long-term. Moreover, the fact might incorporate the community composition of aquatic sys-
that the framework monitors not only the condition of the tems in a manner similar to the one we have implemented for
ecosystem at a given time, but also how human activities terrestrial communities and potentially include indicators
might be expected to influence its future condition, makes representing the degree to which large-bodied terrestrial
the framework a forward-looking approach for monitoring and aquatic species are able to fulfil their ecological function.
restoration outcomes. The framework could even be taken forward to marine eco-

The rewilding assessment framework provides readily systems [52]. The addition of biodiversity indicators of
applicable indicators to measure progress in projects invol- small-bodied species such as insect community composition
ving very different spatial and temporal scales and under and diversity would assist with capturing rapid ecological

contrasting settings, from urban areas to extensive natural changes resulting from restoration actions [54]. Information
