mammals is unknown, but must have been at least in the range of 50 million to 100 million, and a 1964 estimate [81] of only
575 000 head of wildlife illustrates the extent of the decline. Changing legislation that allows landowners legal ownership of
wildlife on their properties (The Game Theft Act, Act 105 of 1991), and hence gain benefits in terms of harvests (live sales and
wildlife products), conferred value to wildlife. This led to a growth in game ranching across South Africa, with an estimated
9000 wildlife farms covering an area of more than 170 000 km? [82]. The growth in ecotourism added value to the megaher-
bivores, leading to extensive rewilding with megaherbivores (and the associated mesoherbivores) of large areas (figure 4).
The socio-economic benefits of this rewilding are direct: such operations employ up to twice as many staff at four times
the salary as a comparably sized pastoral farming operation [83]. This rewilding led to a remarkable increase from only
0.5 million heads of wildlife in the mid-1960s to 18 million heads of wildlife just half a century later [84]. The private
sector has been a key driver in this rewilding paradigm shift, with private landowners responsible for 76% of the elephant
populations and 60% of the area rewilded with elephant (excluding the Kruger National Park [85]). The lessons on rewilding
from South Africa therefore include the need for enabling legislation, the ability of landowners to benefit from wildlife and
economic incentives to support wildlife. Probably the most important lesson is the fact that national paradigms may shift
from one of squandering wildlife to massive large-scale rebuilding of wildlife populations as a national resource.

climate will take a portfolio of complementary strategies (or even worse for the extensive Asian grasslands and steppes
CC mitigation wedges [71]), which will vary among where once immense populations of saiga, gazelle spp. and
countries and regions. We argue here that rewilding has equids have almost vanished [78]. Following the Serengeti
the potential to form part of such regional mitigation port- example, consequences of this collapse probably include
folios. One of the most powerful examples is the role of strongly reduced productivity and carbon storage of pro-
megafaunal seed dispersers for the carbon storage of forests tected grassy biomes. There is thus great potential for
(see box 1 for mechanisms). The current bushmeat crisis, regions in the grassy biome range to rewild and better protect
however, is increasingly leading to ‘empty’ forests [10]. their conservation areas [75] as a significant carbon sequester-
Recent work suggests that the loss of megafaunal frugivores ing strategy. Such rewilding should focus on restoring the
may be responsible for as much as a 10% reduction in large, non-ruminant herbivores at historic baseline densities,