research. In addition, even though our power analysis eralization to everyday scenarios, like the afore mentioned school
showed sufficient power to detect small effect sizes, an context, for example. Furthermore, a participant can simply lose
a priori power analysis revealed that a larger sample size the memory game. This trivial fact could elicit frustration in the
encompassing 176 participants would have been optimal in participants. Even though we tried to let the participants win
terms of statistical power. Since the study design and set-up the first game of any round to allow for a start with a positive
was complex, so was the analysis of the video data. Therefore, experience (which was successful most of the time), we suggest
at the time of data collection, recruiting a larger sample of par- measuring positive and negative affect, including frustration
ticipants was not feasible. It is plausible that a replication study after the memory game task to control for such aspects. More-
with more participants might yield even stronger results than over, it might be recommendable to keep the number of
those obtained in the present research. Furthermore, it might rounds constant. We made it variable to use it as a dependent
be advisable to include a baseline control condition without measure for the HRI situation, assuming that participants who
IC to gain better insights into the perception of the interaction like to interact with NAO would play more rounds. However,
and interaction patterns in HRI per se. That is, future studies this is not what we actually observed. Thus, the fact that partici-
should add one condition in which participants do not imagine pants varied in the number of rounds played, extended or
contact of any kind, neither high nor low in similarity to the fol- shortened the HRI accordingly—an issue that should be avoided
lowing actual HRI. Such a baseline control condition would in follow-up experiments.
allow insights into the perception of the mere HRI itself without Furthermore, the duration of the HRI scenario in our exper-
the influences of the previous experimental treatment. With iment has to be discussed. Participants had the opportunity to
regards to the implementation of the experimental conditions play up to four rounds of memory with the robot. This would
in the present research, it might be that these might have result in an interaction of medium length (approx. up to 8 min).
evoked different expectations regarding the robot's capabilities. Realistic interactions with social robots in the future will be
Even though NARS, RAS, contact intentions, the willingness to either much shorter (e.g. paying my groceries to a robot cashier
interact, acceptance and liking of the robot were no relevant or asking for directions) or much longer, involving repeated
covariates, it cannot be ruled out completely that differences interactions (e.g. cooperating with a robot in the work context).
in participants’ expectations regarding the robot's capabilities Consequently, further studies should consider the length of the