potential interactions in one context, for example the school reason could be that the robot interaction task was highly 2
context, is supported by the results of [41] who found that structured. Therefore, participants might not have felt the
the positive effects of mentally simulating an activity transfers need to communicate with the robot and thus, might
to other, similar activities. mainly have focused on the task at hand, the memory
Clearly, the present research has set the stage for several game. It would be interesting to replicate the findings using
follow-up studies. The present research did not assess the a different HRI task which would encompass more mutual
effect of the IC scenarios on robot attitudes, but rather concen- interaction between the robot and participants.
trated on the effect on HRI and perceived HRI quality. Future Another important issue for future research concerns the con-
studies should assess the effects of similarity of IC and text of HRI itself. Participants were asked to play amemory game
HRI on robot-related attitudes as well, replicating previous with the robot. However, this game context does not allow gen-
research. In addition, even though our power analysis eralization to everyday scenarios, like the afore mentioned school
showed sufficient power to detect small effect sizes, an context, for example. Furthermore, a participant can simply lose
a priori power analysis revealed that a larger sample size the memory game. This trivial fact could elicit frustration in the
encompassing 176 participants would have been optimal in participants. Even though we tried to let the participants win
terms of statistical power. Since the study design and set-up the first game of any round to allow for a start with a positive
was complex, so was the analysis of the video data. Therefore, experience (which was successful most of the time), we suggest
at the time of data collection, recruiting a larger sample of par- measuring positive and negative affect, including frustration
ticipants was not feasible. It is plausible that a replication study after the memory game task to control for such aspects. More-
with more participants might yield even stronger results than over, it might be recommendable to keep the number of
those obtained in the present research. Furthermore, it might rounds constant. We made it variable to use it as a dependent
be advisable to include a baseline control condition without measure for the HRI situation, assuming that participants who
IC to gain better insights into the perception of the interaction like to interact with NAO would play more rounds. However,
and interaction patterns in HRI per se. That is, future studies this is not what we actually observed. Thus, the fact that partici-
should add one condition in which participants do not imagine pants varied in the number of rounds played, extended or
contact of any kind, neither high nor low in similarity to the fol- shortened the HRI accordingly—an issue that should be avoided