most frequent in species where females only associate tem- they attempted to suckle from them inspired the hypothesis
porarily to breed. Because infanticidal behaviour is that females compete over milk in species where they only
relatively rare and may be difficult to detect, this association associate to breed [18]. While our comparative analyses did
may reflect the fact that opportunities to commit and to not reveal any difference in the energy content of milk of
observe infanticides may be greater where females live or associated breeders in which infanticide is present versus
breed together. Within each type of social organization, we absent, associated breeders nevertheless comprise the species
do however find that females, like males, appear to commit with the highest energy content of milk and the fastest
infanticide when the presence of the victim might otherwise growth rates, and we further found that offspring are larger
limit their own reproductive success. While infanticide by at birth and weaned at an earlier age in associated breeders
males has evolved primarily in response to mate competition with infanticide compared to those without it. The lack of
across mammals [14,15], the evolutionary determinants of support for the milk competition hypothesis in our analyses
infanticide by females are apparently more complex, as may be explained by a noisy dataset, where the absence of
females may compete over multiple resources. infanticide in some species may be owing to the fact that it
Several lines of evidence indicate that female infanticide is goes undetected if it is hard to observe, or to the evolution
adaptive, with females killing conspecific offspring in of counter-adaptations that protect offspring against infanti-
response to competition over resources that are critical for cide. Alternatively, milk is not the only resource over which
successful reproduction. First, infanticide appears associated these females compete. For example, in the large breeding
with variation in ecology and life-history. Specifically, it is colonies of pinnipeds, space is sometimes very restricted
most frequently observed in species facing harsh climatic con- [51], especially in the immediate vicinity of the harem lea-
ditions and making the greatest reproductive efforts; it is ders. These bulls often protect their females and calves
unlikely that such associations are owing to variations in from attacks by younger males, and may represent another
opportunities to observe or commit infanticides across source of competition for lactating females.
species. Rather, the potential costs of sharing critical It is likely that, in any given species, infanticide may be
resources might outweigh the risks associated with commit- triggered by more than one determinant—including some
ting infanticide in such circumstances. that may not be considered here. A killer may accordingly