where V; is a term that is proportional to the amount of

additive genetic variance in the helping tendency hy. Next, as helpers themselves in later life, whereas adults who have
v; is the individual reproductive value of an adult breeder experienced either a very large amount of help (e.g. ™,=5),
in a patch with i helpers, while u; is the stable class frequency and particularly those who have received no help at all (1 =
of patches containing j helpers. These are obtained from the 0) are less likely to become helpers themselves. We also find
dominant left and right eigenvectors, respectively, of the resi- that early-life effects extend the parameter space over which
dent transition matrix (see electronic supplementary material, helping evolves (relative to populations that help uncondition-
equation (S4)). The first partial derivative of the element bj of ally): for example, for high rates of dispersal (d = 0.6), only
the mutant transition matrix B (see electronic supplementary developmentally plastic helping evolves (compare solid
material, equation (S3)) reflects selection on offspring born versus dotted green lines in figure 12). Finally, because of the
from the focal mutant breeder, who express a helping ten- flexibility of developmentally plastic helping, we find that the
dency hf. The second partial derivative reflects selection on population-wide average tendency to help is, in fact, lower
all breeders in the mutant’s local patch, whose offspring, on for populations with developmental plasticity (see electronic
average, express the helping tendency hy. Finally, the related- supplementary material, figure S7). This is because developmen-
ness coefficient riocaij reflects the relatedness between a focal tally plastic helpers express a low helping tendency in patches

adult breeder and any adult breeding individual (including with no helpers, whereas unconditionally helping individuals

the focal itself) in the local patch, which currently contains j express the same levels of helping everywhere (figure 1a).
helpers (see electronic supplementary material, equation

(S7)). As we have not been able to find analytical solutions

to find the candidate evolutionarily stable helping strategy (i) Local variation in relatedness versus saturation drives plasticity