indicative of both relatedness and local competition for help- reasons as in the current model. If mating is local, this results
ing positions, with the latter effect prevailing in taxa with in an increase in parent-offspring relatedness, potentially
overlapping generations, driving a negative feedback. favouring higher levels of parental care. By contrast, a

Previous models of the evolution of early-life effects have parent who actively harms its offspring (e.g. maternal
focused chiefly on adaptation to fluctuations in the abiotic abuse in macaques [51]) may produce fewer surviving off-
environment (e.g. [13,15,18,41—44]), with surprisingly little spring, thus resulting in lower values of parent—offspring
attention given to social sensitivity (as previously noted in relatedness, which in turn may further enhance the evolution
[3]). A key prediction of the existing theory is that environ- of harming. Formal models are therefore necessary to study
mental conditions need to be sufficiently autocorrelated the role of developmental plasticity in the face of other
with later-life environmental conditions. However, some life-history traits.
studies suggest that autocorrelations from climatic timeseries Finally, for reasons of tractability, the current study only
are, in fact, small and thus cannot readily account for the focused on social traits characterized by plasticity that is irre-
widespread occurrence of early-life effects (e.g. [22,45]). Our versible, so that once an individual has committed itself to
model, however, shows that variation in the social environ- helping it will do so for the rest of its life. While such social
ment can drive the evolution of early-life effects, even in traits may be particularly relevant for some forms of coopera-
the absence of autocorrelations in the abiotic environment, tive breeding in insects, many vertebrate societies are
because social sensitivity itself generates high autocorrela- characterized by forms of reversible plasticity, in which help-
tions between parental and offspring social environments ers may become reproductives later in life [3], or
(see figure 3). Hence, our study suggests that the social reproductives may become helpers (as in the case of grand-
environment may in general play a more important role in parental care [52]). However, we would predict that the
the evolution of early-life effects than does the abiotic qualitative features of our predictions may well be robust to
environment (see also [46,47]). the presence of reversible plasticity, with the number of help-

Our model suggests a number of possible directions for ers present in early life influencing the total amount of time