to it. In vitro fertilization and cross-fostering further showed that this inheritance was not due to any kind of social trans-
mission [13]. It thus appears that an acquired fear of a benign odour can be inherited for at least two generations through
epigenetic modifications of the germline. This constitutes another example of the reality of the inheritance of variation
that was acquired by recent ancestors (a situation that justifies the extension to the left of the green area in figures 3 and 5).

Box 4. Non-genetic transmission of environmentally triggered responses.

One of the first well documented example of inheritance of acquired response to environmental stressors concerns the trans-
generational action of environmental toxins such as endocrine-disruptors (methoxychlor and vinclozolin) commonly used in
the wine industry through modifications of the male germline [61]. In that study in rats, nearly all F1 to F4 male descendants
of FO pregnant females treated with such chemicals showed strongly decreased fertility concomitant with unusual methyl-
ation patterns in the testes. These were transmitted over at least four generations by male but not female gametes despite the
fact that only the FO female received the hormone disruptor [61,62]. Similar multigenerational effects were found with other
contaminants [63]. Furthermore, the expression of over 400 genes in F3 appeared affected by the treatment three generations
before [64], and preference tests showed that F3 females (but not males) of treated FO pregnant mothers (as well as females
with no history of exposure) preferred males whose ancestors were not exposed to endocrine disruptors over males whose
ancestors were exposed three generations before, suggesting that such effects can deeply affect fitness of descendants and
thus the course of evolution [65].



Box 5. Non-genetic transmission of acquired sexual preferences.

In Drosophila melanogaster, a combination of six experiments and modelling showed that female mating preference meets the
five criteria of culture and cultural transmission [66]. Fruit fly females (i) express strong social learning in mating preferences,