might be much broader than ever envisioned, and that cultural inheritance might have been a significant part of evolutionary
processes for extended periods of time. More generally, Kasper et al. [67] have argued that, for the inheritance of complex
behaviour such as cooperation, it is of prominent importance to integrate the non-genetic component of inheritance.

intolerance part of the disorder (but not the insulin resistance within the Modern Synthesis of evolution (review in [14]). For
component), suggesting that part of the inherited information instance, the widely accepted concept of the Weismann
for the development of the disorder is carried out by that barrier between somatic cells and germ cells in animals
small fraction of sperm RNA extracts [12]. Furthermore, needs to be revisited as not only is the germline not isolated
these sperm RNAs are plausibly incorporated into sperm from the external world, but there are also specific and soph-
cells during their transit through the epididymis [11]. The isticated mechanisms that seem to modify the germline in
lumen of the epididymis duct has many RNAs containing response to environmental change. This conclusion was
micro-vesicles. By fusing with sperm cells, these vesicles already suggested by the study of the developmental origin
probably incorporate their RNA content into the sperm of germ cells and the fact that the determination of which
cells in a surprising form of soma-to-germ-communication cell produces the germline is also influenced by the effect of
with transgenerational effects. surrounding extra embryonic cells (for a review, see [75]).

This body of research has major potential for medical Such mechanisms have a Lamarckian flavour, strongly at
sciences [68]. Obesity and diabetes linked metabolic disorders odds with the Modern Synthesis’ view, which puts ‘blind
constitute a major global public health issue, with an estimated heritable variation’ as the cornerstone of its concept of evol-
population at risk increasing and approaching one billion ution by natural selection [76,77]. However, the above
people [70]. One may hypothesize that part of the increase is examples do not necessarily go against the view of the
because the acquired diabetes is inclusively heritable, which Modern Synthesis, but may rather complement and broaden
generates a form of intergenerational snowball effect. its scope as they illustrate additional processes working at

More generally, the parental dietary environment is very different timescales.