reasoned that using genome editing to increase the pro- and use of new-generation genome editing technologies in
ductivity of livestock could be undesirable given the non-human animals as reported in the academic literature.
negative impact of farming on the environment, for example, Our review shows that a wide and diverse range of reasons
through greenhouse gas production and water and land pol- is brought forward and provides a descriptive overview of
lution [104]. On the other hand, genome editing could these reasons, offering a starting point for subsequent further
perhaps contribute to reducing the environmental impact of research and normative analysis [16].
animal production, for example, by decreasing the amount Importantly, many arguments mentioned in this review
of phosphate pollution [96]. Similarly, authors noted that are not reasons for or against all uses of genome editing in

using gene drives to control agricultural pests could be a animals. Instead, they point to possible conditions for the


responsible use of these technologies. For example, the fact harms and risks in question and argue why the harms out-

that genetically modified (non-gene drive) mosquitoes weigh the benefits or vice versa. The principle of
could potentially cause negative consequences by spreading subsidiarity entails that a policy should only be adopted if
the modified gene beyond the target population, could lead there is no less harmful policy that would achieve the same
to the requirement that, among other conditions, a first trial result. This principle suggests that applications of genome
site be geographically isolated, such as an island [102]. Our editing ought to be compared to alternative policies in
review also underlines that different ethical considerations terms of potential harms and benefits, including the—often
apply to different applications of genome editing in animals. forgotten—benefits and harms of the status quo, including
From this point of view, the question is not whether genome the costs of inaction. In the case of gene drives, for example,
editing in animals is ethically acceptable, but whether there potential ecological damage resulting from their use is a
are conditions under which it can be ethically employed. pressing concern, warranting a thorough inventory of related
In what follows, we make four additional observations risks and harms. When weighing those, the principle of sub-