expressed Grb70 shifts behaviour to the dashed line, indicating a greater will- posals, is best able to account for the cognitive and
ingness to tolerate delay (and risk) in favour of the larger reward. Elimination behavioural effects of imprinted genes is difficult at the
of the maternally expressed Nesp shifts behaviour to the dotted line, moment. Behavioural phenotypes are complex, sensitive to
producing a risk- (and delay-) averse phenotype. context, and shaped by interactions among various genetic
and environmental factors that are not fully understood.
Nesp and Grb10 have also been associated with other risk- The fitness effects associated with specific behaviours may
related behaviours; Nesp has also been associated with reac- also depend on complex social and environmental patterns
tivity to novel environments, with maternal null mice that may or may not be adequately reproduced in the labora-
showing increased activity when placed in a novel environ- tory setting. Furthermore, most imprinted genes that are
ment, but a reduced willingness to explore when given a expressed in the brain are also expressed in early develop-
choice between novel and familiar environments [11]. This ment, where they affect growth and development. The
is potentially consistent with a role for maternally expressed behavioural effects of simple genetic deletions are then con-
Nesp in promoting risk-tolerant behaviours, in this case, a founded by major developmental perturbations. In fact,
willingness to explore an unfamiliar environment. maternally expressed Nesp and paternally expressed Grb10
Elimination of paternal expression of Grb10 results in a are among the only imprinted transcripts for which the

specific increase in social dominance behaviour [12], as does
an increase in the expression of the maternally expressed
Cdknic gene in the brain [13]. Assertion of social dominance
can be interpreted as a high-risk behavioural strategy, as it

effects of standard genetic manipulations are limited to the
central nervous system.

may lead to increased reproductive success (if the animal (d) Origins of imprinted genes affecting behaviour