addictive liability of the drug. from degradation by the enzyme monoamine oxidase. Iron

deficiency has been shown to directly affect the neuron’s
iron-DA-binding capacity, rendering the neuron more prone

(0) Implications for treatment to iron-related toxicity [132]. Consequently, iron deficiency is
Not only has impulsivity been associated with the transition associated with increased extracellular DA levels in the stria-
from habitual to compulsive drug use, high levels have been tum due to a decrease in DA re-uptake by transporters [134]
shown to significantly hamper recovery from addiction in and reduced DA-binding capacity within neurons [135]. Iron
terms of treatment drop out [123,124] or increase the risk of deficiency has also been shown to decrease D2R density in
relapse [125]. Impulsivity might therefore be a relevant factor the striatum in animal models [136], a phenotype frequently
to take into consideration for treatment, for example, by probing reported in stimulant-addicted individuals [137]. This is inter-
attentional control. One experimental study examined the esting in light of the fact that iron regulation in stimulant-
effects of dopaminergic agents on the degree to which stimu- addicted individuals is significantly disrupted, as reflected
lant-addicted individuals are distracted by drug-related words by iron deficiency in the periphery and excessive iron accumu-
[126]. Restoring midbrain DA transmission in stimulant- lation in the brain [138]. Work in experimental animals has also
addicted individuals using DA agonists has been suggested as shown that stimulant drugs cause a selected accumulation of
a treatment target to restore the downregulation of midbrain iron in the globus pallidus, which together with the STN
DA in this disorder, but clinical studies have not been conclusive forms the ‘indirect striatal pathway’ implicated in regulatory
[127]. Equally inconclusive were approaches for the use of DA control and compulsive behaviours [139]. Familial risk for
receptor antagonists to block cue-induced DA release developing compulsive stimulant drug use could be associated
[128,129], which can induce craving and trigger relapse. This with a polymorphism in iron-regulatory genes, which in com-

dilemma, namely whether treatment for stimulant addiction bination with chronic stimulant exposure, may lead to the low
