mics and molecular biology). Yet we have all ended up research approaches, nor the wealth of research knowledge = 5
struggling to answer the same kinds of questions. How will that already exists in the studies of phenotypic plasticity,GxE =
the performance of populations and species respond to environ- interactions and rates of population fitness evolution via natural = >
mental change? What is the respective contribution of evolution selection. Instead, our aim is to concentrate on the interplay __
and plasticity in determining rates of adaptation or in facilitat- between adaptive evolution and plasticity, placing them = =
ing species’ persistence? Meanwhile, the contextual landscape together in the context of environmental change. =
of the research agenda is shifting. A debate between those The contributions to this theme issue fit into four broad = 5
who consider ‘plasticity-first’ to promote adaptation and themes. First, the multidimensional nature of the challenge of =
those for whom adaptive responses occur via genetic changes determining the role of plasticity in adaptation tonovelenviron- = &
alone, with plasticity buffering those genetic responses, sim- ments. This theme issue highlights the fact that the study of iat
mers on [8-12]. However, we operate now in a time when it plasticity and its potential to be adaptive needs to be inclusive =
is hard to find a study that rejects plasticity as a potential of time and space. Our second theme is the role of the past in
source of adaptation to novel environments. To our mind, the predicting the future. Here we highlight the fact that predicting 3
debate now centres on the distinction between when plasticity levels of expression of phenotypic plasticity within a population 2
is an adaptation (itself the result of evolution via natural selec- into the future requires an understanding of the influence of past
tion), or simply yields an adaptive outcome (i.e. fortuitously environmental changes on current levels of plasticity. Our third
increases fitness) [7,13]. Our aim for this theme issue is not to theme centres on the role of sexual selection and mate choice as
dwell on distinctions or discord but to help integrate different an understudied, yet crucial, aspect of determining the role of
perspectives and focus attention on common ground: to high- phenotypic plasticity in adaptation to novel environments.
light the growing consensus view of plasticity and adaptive Finally, by taking a somewhat reductionist view of plasticity
evolution [14]. as equivalent to condition-dependence, the fourth theme of
There is almost universal acknowledgement that plasticity the issue emerges: that of plasticity as a ‘Matthew effect’—initial
has an important role to play in species’ adaptation to human- advantages lead to further cumulative advantages. This pro-
induced environmental change [4,14]. As Merila & Hendry [7] vides a context in which one can start to understand why
point out, it could be argued that the pendulum has now inter-individual patterns are predictable.