of theory [14,15,18,19,22,26,24,28-31]. Although some of this more challenging to demonstrate evolutionary changes in plas-
theory makes generalized predictions, evidence for the role of ticity over time because genotypes from the past and present
plasticity in trait evolution varies substantially by trait type must be reared across a range of environments to test for
(e.g. morphology, physiology, life history) and taxonomic evolutionary changes in a trait’s environmental sensitivity.
group, so that the empirical evidence should probably be con- One of the best cases for climate-driven evolution of
sidered separately in each context. Relative to other types of environmental sensitivity comes from pitcher plant mosquitos
traits there is reason to believe that plasticity may already be Wyeomyia smithii. This species has a spring emergence time that
especially high for the phenological and physiological traits is sensitive to photoperiod, and varies latitudinally. From
that are likely to evolve in response to climate change. This is 1972 to 1996, the photoperiodic response in this species shifted
because climate change will entail alterations in the means, towards earlier emergence times across populations in the east-
variances and predictabilities of environmental variables ern USA from Georgia to Maine, a clear example of
(temperature, moisture, carbon dioxide, pH) that already evolutionary change in the plastic response to photoperiod __
show substantial spatial and temporal heterogeneity in natural through time [39]. In fact, most if not all documented examples =:
environments [32]. This heterogeneity occurs at temporal and of climate-driven evolutionary changes in plasticity involve — 5!
spatial scales experienced by organisms within their lifespans, altered sensitivity to phenological cues, including changes in >
and is therefore expected to favour plasticity that maximizes fit- the migratory behaviour of European blackcaps (Sylvia atrica- =
ness across environments [7,33,34]. Thus, plasticity already pilla) [40], flowering time in sea beets (Beta vulgaris ssp. 8
plays an important role in allowing organisms to maintain fit- maritima) [41] and diapause timing in the fall webworm iat
ness across heterogeneous environments. A key question is (Hyphantria cunea) [42]. Phenological mismatches are animpor- >!
whether sufficient genetic variation in plasticity (G x E) exists tant cause of climate-driven population declines [43,44], and
to allow evolutionary changes in plasticity to contribute to the therefore likely to be an important source of selection [45,46]. x
maintenance of fitness as patterns and scales of environmental As a result, evolutionary changes in sensitivity to phenological 3
heterogeneity change through time. cues will be an essential feature of evolutionary rescue (if it

This question is difficult to address because direct obser- occurs) in many species [47]. However, not all observed