traits (preferred males, or males that win fights for access to

females) benefit or harm their mating partners compared /. Plasticity and females
with the average male. We have emphasized sexual selection on males but, of course,
sexual selection also acts on females (e.g. female—female
(a) A ‘good parent’ model suggests that condition-dependent competition for breeding opportunities and male mate
sexual traits honestly signal parental care, while ‘differen- choice) (reviews: [30,159,160]). What effect do sexually
tial allocation’ models predict that sexual selection on selected female traits have on mean female LRS? Clearly,
males lowers parental care owing to the resource trade- mean female LRS must decline if there is any fitness trade-
offs that males face [147-149]. This is why the relation- off with naturally selected traits [161]. If females simply
ship between condition-dependent male sexual signal used a lottery rather than expended resources on competition
and paternal care is unclear, and both outcomes seem to determine contested breeding opportunities, then the ‘win-
possible [150]. However, the fact that female mating pref- ning’ female could invest more in reproduction. Of course,
erences might evolve in response to the direction of the the same is true for males, but a key difference is that the
relationship would appear to favour males being ‘good mean LRS of breeders is likely to be more strongly affected
parents’, which could even lead to the evolution of by which females, rather than males, breed. This claim is
male-only care [151]. But the enduring challenge is to based on the assumption that there is greater variation in
explain why attractive males provide more care when female fecundity and parental investment than in direct
mating precedes caring. In general, there must be male effects on female LRS §2(b). A more interesting question
inherent constraints on preferred males, perhaps owing is: to what extent does plasticity in sexually selected female
to the social setting (e.g. strict monogamy [149], or traits increase the realized fecundity of breeders when breed-
because early mate desertion by females increases the ing sites and/or male mates are a limited resource? If female
value of male care [152]), such that males gain more by investment in sexually selected traits is condition-dependent,
providing the ‘advertised’ care than redirecting resources but the proportion of resources invested is smaller for females
to pursue additional mating opportunities (see also [56)). in better condition (so that they remain more fecund), then