which serves as an overall measure of mutational non-
independence in our dataset, and found that MI,, = 87.7 0
bits. We compared this value to the null distribution 60 70 MI 80 90
generated by randomly and independently distributing wot
mutations among evolved genotypes 10° times (see Methods) Figure 1. Histogram showing the null distribution of the aggregated Moe
and found that the observed value was significantly larger statistic based on 100000 simulations (see Methods). Observed Mltot is
than expected by chance (p < 107°; figure 1; electronic sup- indicated by the black triangle.

plementary material, figure S1). On average, the knowledge
that a mutation in one gene is present in a given genotype
provides a very small amount (87.7/6328 = 0.014 bits) of genotype in our data three times and never exhibited a
information about the presence of a mutation in any other higher value of mutual information in any of the 100000
specific gene. Nevertheless, the fact that mutated genes are simulations. When examining the complete dataset, including
distributed non-uniformly across evolved genotypes indi- all clones descending from each population, we found that a
cates that genetic networks subtly but significantly affected mutation in the PHO84 gene precedes a mutation in TRK7 in
the mutational trajectories in our evolving populations. at least one population and that all populations with a non-
Our estimates of mutual information depend on the value synonymous mutation in PHO84 allele acquire a TRK1
of the pseudocount parameter ¢ (see Methods). We re-ran our mutation (electronic supplementary material, figure $5).
analysis (albeit with 10 simulations instead of 10°) at varying To experimentally validate this positive genetic inter-
values of ¢ between 0.0002 (¢ = 0.1/M) and 0.004 (e = 2/M) action, we reconstructed one allele of pho84 and two alleles
and found that our main result is robust with respect of trk1 in the ancestral background both as single mutants
to the choice of ¢ (electronic supplementary material, and as double pho84/trk1 mutants. All mutations were con-
figure $2). structed as heterozygotes—the state in which they are
maintained in the evolution experiment—and assayed for fit-
ness. The mutant pho84 and trk1 alleles conferred small but