one can envision a critical temperature for repelling fluid mixtures beyond which the mixture would be homogeneous, while
the phases are separated for temperatures below the critical temperature. Such a model was conceived by Flory and Huggins
in the 1940s [160,161] to describe the behaviour of a mixture of polymers and has hence been used to predict the response of
various kinds of mixtures. When applied to protein gases on fluid membranes, curvature modifies the energy required to
place a protein molecule in a given membrane location (its chemical potential), which can lead to protein-rich curved
domains in conditions where a planar membrane would remain homogeneously mixed.

161]) account for the mixing entropy of the proteins in the especially if a combined effect with phase transition occurs
membrane, and the self-interaction between proteins (see as with N-Ras recruitment to L, domains in curved lipo-
also box 3). Such thermodynamic continuum models pro- somes. Fourth, this review also highlights the interplay
vide a self-consistent description of curvature sensing, between tension and curvature sensing, and both seem to
sorting [126] and generation, as well as its coupling with play a role in biochemical sensing mechanisms. In addition,
membrane tension [162]. Strikingly, despite the fact that external forces exerted on the PM trigger molecular
these phenomena can be highly dynamical and concomi- rearrangements such as phase changes or lipid sorting, poss-
tant, current theories have focused on equilibrium, or ibly affecting directly many signalling proteins [165]. Finally,
considered restricted dynamics with either fixed shape many CSPs have been explored at the nanoscale, but how
[163] or fixed protein coverage [164]. Looking forward, a cells sense curvature at the microscale remains unclear
fundamental challenge in the field is to connect models [166]. Upon cellular compression, structures of very different
capturing protein—lipid specificity and membrane mechan- sizes can be generated [31], and may induce very different
ochemistry at a mesoscale. curvature-sensing mechanisms. To conclude, mechanotrans-

duction by the cellular PM is still an emerging field, which

could even have implications in other cellular membranes
6. Concluding remarks [167], including the nuclear membrane [168,169]. Here, we