model compared to the neutral model. This information gain vide evidence for convergent adaptation both by helping to


establish the degree to which evolutionary changes among tests, shared population history and gene flow is naturally 5 |

populations are independent and by providing evidence that, accommodated for in assessing environmental correlations or
historically, individuals with a given allele had enhanced fit- non-neutral allele frequency divergence. While these tests use 5
ness relative to the ancestral state. In this section, we review the independent evidence of allele frequencies across popu- =
how single locus and quantitative trait tests, and haplotypic lations to test for deviations away from a null model, they do =
or linked variation data, can be used to test the conditions not generally test explicitly for adaptive convergence. This is 5
of convergence. because they are not usually used to take the extra step of deter- = =
mining whether similar patterns of non-neutral allele change in S
distinct subsets of the species range are, in fact, independent ©
(a) Single locus and quantitative trait tests or can be explained by selection-driven allele frequency =
In evolutionary studies of characters across species, compara- change in one region followed by gene flow and drift spreading = 5
tive methods [2,46] make use of the phylogeny to judge the change to other regions. However, researchers do already = =
whether the sharing of a character among taxa is expected informally test for convergence of allele frequency change ©
under some null model (e.g. independent evolution down a across species ranges, for instance in studying parallel selective _
phylogeny) and whether characters are correlated with some clines on multiple continents or at smaller geographical scales. =:
ecological variable beyond null expectations (see [22], for a (See, for example, the work on Drosophila genomic clines of — 5!
recent review). For example, in phylogenetic mixed models, [59-61].) One possibility to formalize a test of convergence is = 5
the phenotypes of a set of species is regressed on some environ- to condition on the observed allele frequency change in one =
mental variable as a fixed effect and divergence along the subset of the species range, using the relatedness matrix, &
phylogeny is incorporated as a random effect, with the covari- while testing for non-neutral allele frequency change elsewhere. iat
ance structure of the random effect being specified by the Additionally, frameworks that use admixture graphs, parame- =