lations (i.e. figure 1c where now the increase in the recipient (figure 2c), and the coancestry coefficients that our approach
population was not owing to selection in population 2 but uses, which are another statement about the haplotypic simi-
only migration pressure and drift). larity within and between populations, as a function of
Population genomic data helps dissect whether sweeps recombination distance from the locus experiencing selection
across multiple populations are indeed true examples of con- (figure 2d). The latter two signals shown were generated
vergent adaptation. If, for example, populations adapt from from simulations as outlined briefly in appendix Ab.
different or independent mutations within the same gene or The difference between the independent mutations scen-
different genes that arose and swept, little overlap is expected ario and the others is perhaps the most striking. Here, the
in the haplotypes among these populations (figure 2). This beneficial allele arose on different haplotypes in the two
builds support for the case that adaptation was probably adapted populations and, after fixation, we observe high
independent and that information gain owing to selection levels of similarity within the two populations, but none
was compounded across populations. Convergent adaptation between. This sharing within a population that experienced
owing to selection on the same mutation, i.e. independent selection is owing to the fact that variants linking the ben-
adaptive allele frequency change on the same variant (inde- eficial allele also increased in frequency. As we move
pendent substitutions but not independent mutations), may further away from the selected locus, recombination is more
be also distinguishable from cases where most of the change likely to occur and this association breaks down. This is
is owing to shared selection. In [28], we developed an approach shown in the coancestry coefficients as a function of recombi-
to distinguish between the ways convergent adaptation can nation distance from the selected site. In this case, there is an
arise using neutral allele frequency data from sites linked to increase in coancestry within a selected population but no
beneficial loci. Specifically, we derived coancestry coefficients increase in coancestry (beyond neutral, shared population
(terms proportional to the relatedness and kinship coefficients) history) between the populations. We can also see this in
both within and between populations experiencing the same the tree generated at the selected site. Here, all lineages

selective pressure based on coalescent probabilities. We then within a population coalesce rapidly, while between them,
