with a spore-forming capability that can be dormant for the tantly related host species, functions conferred by different
rest of the time (figure 6). The vampire bat, for example, forages microbial communities may be more likely to converge,
only once nightly, drinking up to 40% of its body weight in although phylogenetic limitations may still exist. In support of
blood, but then returns to its roost and stays relatively inactive this hypothesis, a recent study on the convergence of another
until the next foraging flight the following night. The vampire specialized diet—folivory—in several lineages of primates
finch receives more seasonal pulses of blood in its diet, display- found that host phylogeny was a much stronger predictor of
ing haematophagy during the dry months of the year gut microbiome structure than the host diet type, but certain
(June-December) when seeds and arthropods are scarce, and functional pathways were similarly depleted in folivorous pri-
resuming their omnivorous diet once the wet season starts mates compared to non-folivorous relatives [45]. Yet another
(January—May). Higher abundance of sporulation pathways possibility is that the host genome provides needed functions
in these species could, however, also stem from the higher rather than the microbiome: for example, Zepeda Mendoza
relative abundance of Peptostreptococcaceae (class Clostridia, et al. [44] report genes in the vampire bat genome for traits that
phylum Firmicutes) present, as a side-effect of the fact that could be beneficial for feeding on a blood diet. Future compari-
endospore formation is a common trait in Firmicutes. sons of the genomes and metagenomes of haematophagous
Intriguingly, RIG-I-like receptors, which are involved in organisms may reveal that the adaptation to a blood diet may
detecting viral RNA and initiating immune responses, were be contributed differently between the host’s and the symbionts’
predicted to be found in much lower abundance in both genomes, depending on the host group.
haematophagous bats and birds when compared to their One important limitation of the present study is that we
non-haematophagous counterparts (figure 6). This is counter- assess function using PICRUSt rather than directly from
intuitive, because one might have expected that viral RNA metagenomic data. This requires inference from the closest
detection ability would instead be higher in animals that feed genome, and the observed NSTI (Nearest Sequenced Taxon
on blood, to guard against blood-borne viruses. Interestingly, Index) values are high, especially for bacteria hosted by
Zepeda Mendoza et al. [44] found a low diversity of endogen- birds (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). This

ous retroviral elements in the vampire bat genome compared to effect could lead to under-reporting instances of functional