
incidence q

Figure 1. Probability distributions of the incidence q given by equations (2.4) and (2.3). The vertical lines mark Qos, the upper limit of the 95% Cl. The distributions
result from a sampling series composed of K = 3 monitoring rounds, of which the first two are fully negative (ie. M, = M, = 0) and the last varies from M; = 0
(ie. all sampled hosts are negative) to M; = N (i.e. all sampled hosts are positive). These probability distributions are represented for varying values of epidemic
growth rate r, sampling size N and sampling interval A. (Online version in colour.)

number of detected infected hosts in the sample, unsurpris- Another model behaviour of particular interest occurs
ingly increases the estimated incidence. Increasing the when r and o are large (see the rightmost column of figure
sample size Nx reduces the uncertainty in the estimates. 2). We observe that the estimated Qos and Qy; do not align
Increasing the sampling interval A decreases the impact of well with the diagonal for small incidences q7. For those
the historic samples on the estimation. This reflects the fact cases of very hazardous pathogens with high epidemic
that samples taken further back in time are less informative growth rates and long asymptomatic periods, the sampling
of current disease incidence. As for the epidemic parameters, size N is too small to allow discrimination between the
the growth rate r and the asymptomatic period o (not shown non-detection cases (i.e. the ones for which all the M; = 0),
in figure 1 for dimensional reasons) have very similar effects and a larger sampling effort is needed for the estimation to
to A. Increasing them increases the estimated incidence by be informative.

decreasing the impact of the historic samples (which are the Although increasing r and o accelerates the divergence
ones sampling lower incidences q). Increasing any of the par- between the logistic and the exponential curves, the
ameters A, r or o also reduces the effective sample size (i.e. approximation appears accurate for early infections even
Sk, NeZx), which increases the uncertainty on the estimates considering very high values of epidemic parameters
(i.e. producing probability distributions with larger variance). such as r = 0.1 day"! or o = 100 days.
