(i) the sum of the two disease cases, (ii) the probabilities of ation can be applied to the adaptive capacity and in turn to
recovering and (iii) the fraction of detection for the different the vulnerability, i.e. estimations of vulnerability are expected
diseases. In this situation, the functional form of vulnerability to be seasonal and stochastic.

depends on the number of cases of the two specific diseases,
with relevant parameters (e.g. proportion of detection
and probability of recovering for the two diseases) being

(b) Vulnerability to Lassa fever and Ebola in Nigeria

weighted by factors representing the relative burden of dis- and Sierra Leone
ease A and disease B (electronic supplementary material). Figure 1 shows the vulnerability to Lassa Fever during the
This reflects the fact that the diseases can have a differential 2017-2018 epidemic in Nigeria (figure 1b), and for 2008-
effect on impact and adaptive capacity (for instance, when 2012 in Sierra Leone (figure 1a). Estimations for both the gen-
a country can cope better with one disease rather than the eral and severe situations are presented. For Nigeria,
other). As above, in a more general situation, the probability vulnerability decreases with time, reaching the asymptotic
of recovering should be substituted with the adequate values between 1.25 and 1.50 (severe situation) and between
function of the number of cases for both diseases. 1.25 and 1.30 (general situation). Note that according to our
Extension of the model at larger spatial resolution also definition, a vulnerability equal to 1 means that all infected
leads to a transparent expression for vulnerability, which is cases recover. In Sierra Leone, vulnerabilities increase with
simply the ratio of the overall impact (i.e. the sum of the time after 2010 and tend to be slightly higher than the corre-
impacts for each spatial unit) and overall adaptive capacity sponding values for Nigeria. The vulnerabilities for the
(i.e. the sum of the adaptive capacity for each spatial unit). general situation tend to be lower than those for the severe
Finally, it is important to emphasize that the terms in situation. The vulnerability to Lassa fever in Nigeria shows
the rate A (e.g. the reservoir population size Nr and the a marked decrease during the time of the epidemics com-