infection and replication in tonsil keratinocytes upon innate gramming of the host at this body site. Because HPV regulates “=
signalling and other arms of the immune system are needed. miRNA expression during the virus life cycle and a specific =
With regards to this topic, RNA-Seq of gingivial keratinocytes miRNA profile is associated with HPV-positive tonsil tumours S
immortalised with the telomerase enzyme hTERT and HPV16 compared to virus negative malignancies, then characteriz- ©
genomes showed downregulation of the interferon-regulated ation of the virus’ effect upon the miRNA transcriptome =
innate signalling complex, interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 should also be investigated using the models [79]. 5
(ISGF3) and a number of the gene targets of this complex Neither should studies be limited only to HPV16, but ==
[70]. Although, gingivial tissue is not a common site for the include models harbouring HR HPV types found less frequently = >
development of HPV16 cancers, there was a strong correlation in HPV-OPSCC which might aid identification of the molecular __
between the downregulation of the ISGF3 targets between reasons for the different pathogenicity in tonsil tissue. =
these HPV16 immortalized cells and in HPV-positive versus It is commonly assumed that papillomaviruses evolve — 5!
HPV-negative head and neck cancers [70]. Levels of these tar- slowly, but next-generation sequencing of HPV DNA isolated = >
gets were also low in tonsil keratinocytes harbouring HPV16 from lesions is challenging this assumption and in fact inter- =
episomes, suggesting that interference of this pathway is key host HPV genotype variability might be high, although con- = &
in HPV infections in the head and neck. servation of E7 has been demonstrated in the cervix
Investigation of the biology of the HPV life cycle in pri- [33,80,81]. There is also a degree of intra-host variability of S
mary tonsils is one level of understanding of the virus—host HPV16 genotypes across anatomical sub-sites, suggesting — ~
interaction. However, since the tonsil is a lymphoidal tissue that not all HPV16 infection sites are equal when it comes 33
with significant infiltration of lymphoidal cells into the to viral diversity. But what factors could be driving HPV eS
tonsil crypt, future studies might advance these models by evolution at different infection sites? A large proportion of
co-culturing keratinocytes with immune components in these mutations are driven by the anti-viral activity of
two-dimensional and 3D culture systems. APOBEC3. Other innate and adaptive immune pressures
While cell lines have been established from cervical neo- may also be important and differences between the cervix
plasias and have been of huge importance in understanding and oropharynx may, therefore, drive different levels of
the natural history of cervical HPV pathogenesis, equivalents HPV genotype diversity. Certainly, this is an area of ongoing