involved in regulating virulence, with the exception of the brane of bacterial cells [34]. As previously mentioned, to
study cases reviewed here, the signals detected by these investigate the enzymatic activities of HKs, including autoki-
HKs remain unclear. nase, phosphatase and phosphotransferase, full-length HKs
Various scenarios can explain this finding: (i) in contrast must be expressed and embedded into lipid bilayers to recon-
to the receptor serine/tyrosine/threonine kinases of eukar- struct correct conformations. Currently, three approaches can
yotes, phosphorylated HK is typically unstable and has a be used, including inverted membrane vesicle (IMV), lipo-
very short half-life [15,28], which makes it technically difficult some and nanodisc. Among them, the IMV is a vesicle
to test the phosphorylated states of HKs in vivo by means of formed by fractioned plasma membrane with an inverted
Western blot using specific antibodies or Phos-tag gels [29]. direction [41]. The vesicle is extracted from the membrane
Generally, the phosphorylation of HKs or RRs is studied fraction of E. coli cells expressing HKs by ultracentrifugation.
in vitro using radio-autography. (ii) The majority of HKs Although IMV is the simplest method among these
have hydrophobic transmembrane regions that function in approaches, it has a limitation in the purity of the HK. In
signal perception. The standard study strategy that removes fact, IMV is typically a mixture of various proteins embedded
transmembrane regions to obtain recombinant, soluble in the membrane. The purity of HK ranges from 5% to 30% in
proteins precludes the possibility of investigating HK- total protein, and affinity chromatograph can occasionally be
signal interactions [23]. (iii) The nature of transmembrane used to increase the purity of HK embedded in IMV [42].
proteins makes it difficult to express and purify recombi- The level of purity obtained with liposomes and nano-
nant HKs unless full-length HKs are embedded into lipid discs is improved compared with IMV, but these systems
bilayer [30]. are more experimentally complicated. A liposome is an artifi-
Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris is one of the model cial spherical vesicle with at least one lipid bilayer that could
organisms used in studies of plant—pathogen interactions be inserted by transmembrane HKs to construct a membrane
given that it is the causative agent of black rot disease in system [43,44]. Full-length HKs are purified, dissolved in
cruciferous vegetables, it is genetically amendable and a appropriate detergents and then integrated into the phospho-
Gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacterium. This bacter- lipid bilayer after self-assembly and dialysis. To study HK
ium causes serious yield loss worldwide and is listed as biochemistry, one of the considerations for the use of lipo-