locus from different susceptible alleles (figure 6a,b). There- ception and an ‘executor’ or ‘helper’ NLR is responsible for
fore, M262 can be efficiently used as a Pizh-specific marker activation of downstream signalling. There are two generic
in rice molecular breeding for blast resistance. Using a back- models emerging [40]. In the ‘sensor—executor model’, the
cross approach, we have successfully introduced Pizh into the two NLRs are encoded by one locus and the NLR proteins
high-quality but blast-susceptible variety Kongyu131. The physically interact with each other. In this model, the
improved new line, KY131-Pizh, exhibited high blast resist- ‘sensor’ NLR carries an integrated domain that mimics the
ance in inoculation assay (figure 6c), which will be further effector-target and aids pathogen perception. Effector percep-
tested in natural blast nurseries to determine its field tion by the sensor NLR relieves the suppression of the
performance. ‘executor’ NLR, launching downstream immunity signalling.

This is the case for the rice RGA5/RGA4 and Arabidopsis
RRS1/RPS4 pairs [25,41]. The second model is named ‘the
sensor—helper model’ based on the fact that ‘helper’ NLRs

4. Discussion function downstream of multiple ‘sensor’ NLRs. In this
The utilization of host R genes has long been practised in crop case, the two NLRs are typically encoded by different loci.
breeding for disease resistance in crops. However, disease Several ‘helper’ NLRs have been identified in diverse plant
resistance breeding rarely succeeds because of the lack of species, including to Solanaceae NRC1, tobacco NRG1 and
elite broad-spectrum disease resistance genes, particularly Arabidopsis ADR1 [42-44], and the ‘helper’ NLRs merely
in rice breeding for blast resistance because this fungal patho- require activation by the ‘sensor’ NLRs, rather than de-repres-
gen prevails in all rice areas worldwide. In this study, we sion. In our current study, Pizh-1 itself confers broad-
identify a novel blast resistance locus, Pizh, from a widely- spectrum blast resistance, while Pizh-2 likely acts as a
cultivated rice variety Zhonghua 11, which was bred from ‘helper’ NLR contributing to Pizh-1-mediated resistance
resistant varieties Jingfeng5, Tetep and Fukunishiki in 1984, against M. oryzae. Therefore, the Pizh-1/Pizh-2 pair is
exhibiting a broad-spectrum and durable field resistance mechanistically different from the RGA4/RGAS5 NLR pair,