
morphological structure) and particular features of their 3. Number of colours per word
synaesthetic colours (such as their hue, saturation and lumi- The first assumption to address is that synaesthetes experience a
nance) has resulted in, or at least coincided with, a narrowing single colour associated with each word. This widely accepted
of the variables collected to investigate these patterns. It may assumption is supported by circular design: synaesthesia
be no coincidence that this keen interest in the implications of researchers often only allow synaesthetes the option of a
synaesthetic colours for psycholinguistic theory was much single colour per word. No further colours are asked for or
invigorated after the development of the Synesthesia Battery accepted, leading to the impression that that one colour com-
[17]. The grapheme-colour test in the Battery made the quick prises the whole-word colour. Having only a single colour
online verification of synaesthetes possible for large-scale, per word also simplifies the data processing and analysis of
detailed data collection, and simultaneously defined a real complex colour and linguistic information very substantially,
synaesthete specifically by their consistency in selecting one which may also explain why this paradigm is useful to research-
colour per capital letter on an HTML colour palette. Perhaps, ers. However, if this single whole-word colour does not, in fact,
as a side effect, it also concentrated researchers’ interest specifi- capture the actual experience of synaesthetes, then it does not
cally on synaesthetes with colours for written letters, rather matter how much is gained in elegance of analysis, when the
than for spoken words (as with EP) or even necessarily for underlying operationalization—and_ therefore the accuracy
whole written words (as some synaesthetes have reported, and generalizability of the results—is restricted from the outset.
e.g. [18]). In order to develop this measure—which, to Indeed, when given the chance to describe their word col-
be clear, has been invaluable for both researchers and ours, case studies document multiple colours: for example,
synaesthetes—operationalization decisions were made that the city name Catonsville appealed to synaesthete MLS because
disregarded many of the qualitative details that earlier, less of its ‘browns and greens and this nice shiny N’ [22], and
streamlined studies had documented. With this paradigm synaesthete MD mentioned that banana was yellow although
widely accepted as the predominant testing method for it ‘should be dark blue and black’ [9]. Simner et al. [14] also
synaesthesia research, much of the variety of the synaesthetic showed that letters downstream in a word could reinforce
experience is no longer measured by default in favour of a the synaesthete’s colour experiences (e.g. the synaesthetic