
typically a request for food [101-106]. hensive review and discussion of the many controversies


surrounding this topic). In such cases, learning to use discrete training, learned a limited set of human-like symbol systems, | 6 |

symbols is achieved only with considerable repetition or their learning processes are distinct from human language
reward-based paradigms. Evidence like this offers insight learning and their use of these symbols is largely limited. Ss
into the capabilities of the ape mind, given a set of symbols. a
Nevertheless, we are cautious in drawing strong conclusions S
from these examples, as they are rare and have been observed . 3
only as a result of human intervention. 4. Conclusion =
The fact that apes are capable of learning new symbol Like humans, apes have flexible and intentional communi- =
systems speaks to their impressive intelligence, and to the cation systems. However, the representational scope and = &
obvious evolutionary links between the ape brain and precision of these systems differs from that of humans. =>
the human brain. Additionally, there is evidence that some Human infants are equipped with an innate predisposition 5
language-trained apes can successfully group novel exemplars to acquire language, one that is shaped powerfully by their =
into lexical categories, raising the intriguing possibility that tuning to communicative input. Only human infants reveal =
learning human-like abstract symbols may support object categ- an intricate developmental cascade of communicative
orization in non-human apes [121]. However, it typically takes capacities, each serving as the springboard for the next. Only = =
apes many trials of learning with rewards to acquire basic use humans appear to communicate referentially and declaratively, 5
of these symbols. Note that this differs from how human infants and to engage in cultural learning and transmission. a
spontaneously acquire language, as well as how they can easily Human infants as young as three months of age link =
adapt novel symbols as category markers or object labels, given language to core cognitive processes such as categorization, ©
only a single session of seeing these symbols embedded in a and this link continues to unfold with development. But what —