lence data were collected at different scales and elk often lover, GSGD HPAIVs have periodically spilled back into
move across management unit boundaries. Our previous wild birds where they have continued to spread, evolve
movement modelling approaches were not as effective in and been associated with mortality events [30]. GsGD
this region, so we used a more traditional resource selection HPAIV has now been disseminated throughout countries in
approach that allowed us to downscale the population Asia, Africa, Europe and North America [31] where it has
counts and account for habitat selection within a manage- caused considerable economic losses. A potentially important
ment unit. However, this methodology did not account for mechanism of spread of GsGD HPAIV is repeated spillover
movement across regional boundaries, which is an important and spillback of GSGD HPAIV between wild birds and dom-
part of comparing risks among regions if a significant fraction estic poultry. The challenges of estimating spillover and
of the population moves among units within a year. In spillback of GsGD HPAIV in China and North America ==
addition, for regions where no movement data are available, were greater than the brucellosis examples above because of >
one would have to infer movement using data from other the larger spatial scale covered by the reservoir host species __
regions. Ray] et al. [25] did not model this movement across and the fact that there are many different competent reservoir — =:
regions, but instead assumed no movement where the data host species. =
were lacking. In this study, uncertainties were not integrated To identify H5N1 transmission risk at the interface = =
and errors were not propagated comprehensively. In part, between wild and domestic birds within China, Prosser =
this was because some layers (e.g. population counts) did et al. [26] developed large-scale nationwide mechanistic
not have any assessment of their measurement error or a rig- models of spillover and spillback. The largest challenge was iat
orous sampling design, but computational limitations also the lack of spatial and temporal information on wild water- — >!
played a role. fowl (donor) and poultry (recipient) densities (6, 6). As &
Despite the limitations, this process provided both H5N1 prevalence, susceptibility and pathogenicity differed x
biological and methodological insight. In this system, host among species within the recipient and donor populations ea
population size, disease prevalence and movements were [32,33], density distributions needed to be considered across
all highly variable in space and time. As a result, none a suite of susceptible species; for China, this included three
could be easily ignored in the risk assessment process. recipient species and more than 30 donor species. The