
PUBLISHING © 2019 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.


Figure 1. Biodiversity under threat. (a) Plains zebra (Equus quagga) and blue wildebeest (Connochaetes taurinus) by Nairobi, Kenya (© Jakob Bro-Jorgensen).
(b) Carcass of a Peter's duiker (Cephalophus callipygus) for sale in Makokou, Gabon (© Natalie van Vliet). (c) South American sea lions (Otaria flavescens) in Valdivia,
Chile (© Kristine Meise). (Online version in colour.)

priority. This theme issue is motivated by the conviction that responses to environmental change and the likely outcomes
the most cost-effective way to obtain conservation impact of alternative management options.

indeed often involves behavioural ecological study [3-5]. Behavioural ecology has now accumulated a rich toolbox
The fact that the most immediate response of animals to for quantifying how the main behaviours of animals relating
environmental change typically is behavioural puts behav- to foraging, predation, mating, parental care, communication
ioural ecology in a central position to inform natural and sociality are affected by the current threats to biodiversity,
resource management [6]: not only can behaviour serve as notably habitat loss and fragmentation, overexploitation,
an early warning system of environmental deterioration, climate change, pollution, disease, and invasive species. This
behavioural changes also directly or indirectly affect vital provides a firm foundation for a bottom-up approach to under-
rates, i.e. survival and reproduction, the very key parameters standing human impacts on the natural world (figure 2). Still,
determining the dynamics of populations and their aggregate, many systems under threat remain poorly understood from a
communities. It is the links between behavioural ecology behavioural ecological perspective owing to lack of data and
via population and community ecology to conservation on research attention, and the framework presented in figure 2
which this theme issue concentrates. outlines how conceptual and technical advances at various

levels can all strengthen the application of behavioural ecology