referring to a specific target, property, or matter of fact (real to identify first-order intentional signal production, a clear
or imagined). Notably, Brentano’s thesis suggested that inten- framework with observable behavioural criteria is required.
tionality is only a mental phenomenon, and cannot exist in Townsend et al. provide such a framework [12], bringing
non-mental constructs such as sentences of natural languages. together markers that have previously been used to identify
However, Searle [6] and Grice [4,7] reinterpreted intentionality first-order intentional communication in prelinguistic humans
as it might apply to actions and communication, moving it and non-human animals. They propose that an animal has
beyond Brentano’s original formulation. Grice’s early concep- communicated with first-order intentionality if the following
tualizations of intentional signalling require sophisticated three conditions are met: (i) a signaller acts with a goal when
meta-representation from both the recipient and the signaller communicating to a recipient; (ii) the signaller exhibits voli-
[4,7,8]. He proposed that when producing an intentional tional control over recipient-directed signal production to
signal, it is explicitly clear that the signaller is communicating obtain their communicative goal; and (iii) that the recipient
something to the recipient (also known as ostension), and the alters their behaviour in a way that is in line with the signaller’s
fact that the signal is communicative is mutually understood goal. The value of this framework lies in its ability to define the
by both participants [7,8]. That this is ubiquitous in (adult) intentionality of a signal using directly observable behaviour.
human communication is uncontroversial, but it is debated The main limitation of the framework is that, as highlighted
to what extent non-linguistic communication systems can be in the original paper and discussed in more depth later in
deemed intentional based upon Gricean views [2,9]. this article, all the behavioural markers designed to diagnose
Questions have recently been raised about the appropriate- first-order intentional signal production could also be
ness of using Gricean intentionality and meaning as a way of explained by zero-order intentional processes. Thus the
assessing non-human communication, given that Grice’s defi- validity of the criteria used is unclear. In order to meaningfully
nitions were rooted in linguistics rather than including any discuss the validity and use of the criteria, we will first outline
form of expressive communication [10,11]. However, the the criteria and the empirical evidence currently used to claim
Gricean approach remains the dominant approach in animal first-order intentionality in different communicative modalities.
communication, with most researchers using Dennett’s inten- To test Townsend et al.’s first criterion that signals are pro-
tionality framework [3] which offers more graded steps duced to meet a goal, the signaller should continue to signal