[53]). Kuisma ef al. [54] in turn describe a community-based rigorously investigating disease control strategies.
surveillance effort focused on wildlife mortality reporting Ultimately, one of the primary goals of research focused
and oriented to early detection of Ebola virus disease out- on pathogen spillover is to design interventions that can
breaks. Spanning over a decade and covering 50000 km? of reduce or eliminate disease burden in recipient hosts.
challenging terrain in the Congo basin, this programme has Sokolow et al. [60] explore how ecological interventions,
reached hundreds of villages and thousands of hunters and which target the ecological context in which cross-species
forest gatherers. The programme has educated community transmission occurs, can complement more traditional bio-
members in wildlife carcass reporting and behavioral risk medical and veterinary interventions (e.g. vaccination,
reduction as well as built capacity for safe carcass sampling culling). The authors provide case studies to illustrate the
by trained local responders. This region was not confronted potential for ecological interventions that target the reservoir
with an Ebola virus outbreak during the period described host (sometimes indirectly, such as through the restoration of
here, and all reported carcasses tested negative. Nevertheless, natural enemy populations [61]), pathogen survival in the
given the well-recognized fact that early intervention can environment, contact between reservoir and recipient hosts,
avert massive human and economic costs of widespread or other aspects of risk in the recipient species. The authors
epidemics, the low-cost and scalable surveillance programme also present a simple mechanistic model, parameterized for
described by the authors could provide key early detection two example systems, that shows how nonlinear effects can
capability more generally. produce counterintuitive results when comparing potential
Two other contributions focus on zoonotic pathogen intervention strategies and highlights the importance of a
surveillance efforts in domestic animals and human popu- detailed understanding of underlying ecological dynamics
lations. Mwangi et al. [55] present a real-time surveillance when designing and assessing interventions. Lastly, the
system that leverages the existing mobile phone network authors draw attention to the importance of social, economic
and shows immense potential to improve adaptive manage- and political considerations to intervention success, as these
ment of spillover. This surveillance system has been can derail even the most efficient or cost-effective interven-
implemented in 1500 households across rural Kenya, where tion. In particular, aligning the benefits of an intervention
participants are asked to report symptom syndromes in with the costs incurred is crucial to motivate ecological inter-