colour experiences in synaesthetes. in red or orange. The electrophysiological data show that this

The behavioural data clearly show that such non-veridical does not confound our results.
features negatively affect performance even if there is no Importantly, the interaction of ‘non-veridical feature
direct interference with task-relevant stimulus dimensions. match x congruency x group’ was evident for an ERP com-
We demonstrate this by employing a novel paradigm combin- ponent reflecting higher-order response selection and =
ing a Simon task with a Go/NoGo task to measure inhibitory cognitive control processes—the N2. In the context of response 5
control performance within the context of automatic (ie. inhibition, the N2 is assumed to reflect pre-motor inhibition =
spatially corresponding stimulus-response mappings) and processes with the N2 being larger when these processes are >
controlled action selection modes (ie. spatially non-corre- fully deployed [15,4044]. In controls, N2 amplitudes were — __
sponding stimulus-response mappings) modified to match more negative in non-veridically mismatching feature trials = =
(or mismatch) the idiosyncratic perception of each individual compared to non-veridically matching feature trials. This = 5!
within the group of synaesthetes [15,16]. In both groups, we was not shown in the case of the synaesthetes. In fact, a mis- >
found that RTs were shorter and accuracy was higher on match between the presented colour of the letter stimulus =
spatially corresponding compared to spatially non-correspond- and the non-veridical colour feature associated with the  &
ing stimulus—response relations in Go trials and that erroneous letter (i.e. concurrent) seemed to prevent pre-motor inhibition ©
responses on NoGo trials (ie. the false alarm rate) were processes to be deployed, as was reflected in worsened S
increased on corresponding compared to non-corresponding response inhibition performance (increased false alarm rates) —
stimulus-response relations in line with previous findings whenever the task context was mediated via more automatic 33
[15,16]. In synaesthetes, false alarm rates were increased when- stimulus-response translations (‘direct’ route). The source Z
ever the veridical colour of the presented letter stimulus was localization analysis suggests that these modulations of the
not matching the subjectively perceived non-veridical colour N2 are associated with the ACC. This region, and the medial
(ie. synaesthetic concurrent) induced by the presentation of frontal cortex in general, plays a major role in inhibitory con-
the letter (i.e. the inducer). Thus, a conflict between veridical trol [38,39] and has been suggested to orchestrate the
and non-veridical sensory content modulates executive control connection of perception and action [25] due to its hub-like