
Wap = (3, Mente) x Noo = 1 social affinity.

Ni-1 Na * Ne Scenario 2: if affinity decreases from low to intermediate NDVI
where g is the number of groups in which both species A and conditions, and again from intermediate to high NDVI con-
species B are present, Nj is the number of individuals in group ditions, rainfall is generally suggested to reduce social affinity;
i, and Na, Ng and Nijot are the total numbers of individuals of if affinity decreases from low and intermediate NDVI conditions
species A, of species B, respectively of all species, in the commu- to high NDVI conditions, but with no difference between the
nity. The expression denotes the average proportion of a social former, heavy rain is suggested to reduce social affinity.
unit, experienced by an individual of species A, that consists of Scenario 3: if affinity increases from low NDVI conditions,
species B relative to the proportion of individuals of species B when wildebeest are present, to intermediate and high
in the community (note the subtraction of 1 discounts for the NDVI conditions, but with no difference between the latter,
fact that an individual of species A will by necessity group the presence of wildebeest or very low rainfall is suggested
with one of its own species, namely itself, which thus does not to reduce social affinity.
indicate social affinity for conspecifics). The resulting index is Scenario 4: if affinity decreases from low NDVI conditions,
symmetrical for any two species. We calculated social affinity when wildebeest are present, to intermediate and high
indices separately for each of the three ecological conditions NDVI conditions, but with no difference between the latter,
defined above, and identified dyads which were more or less the presence of wildebeest or very low rainfall is suggested
likely to associate than expected if associations occurred at to promote social affinity.
random (for calculation of p-values, see below). For analyses of Scenario 5: if affinity is lowest under intermediate NDVI
changes in social affinities between ecological conditions, we conditions, both the presence of wildebeest and high rainfal
standardized the social affinity indices to control for differences are suggested to promote social affinity.
in the overall propensity of each species to form MSGs under Scenario 6: if affinity is highest under intermediate NDVI
the three ecological conditions. For this, we divided the absolute conditions, both the presence of wildebeest and high rainfall
social affinity index by the sum of the species’ affinity indices are suggested to reduce social affinity.