Figure 4. Proportion of time the listener spent looking upwards depending on the experimental condition. The figure shows raw data (one line per individual),
model estimates (black circles) and bootstrapped model estimates (coloured circles, 1000 bootstraps). Subjects looked more upwards when they were tested with
sequences elicited by an aerial predator or by a predator in the canopy. Reproduced with permission from Berthet et a/. [44]. (Online version in colour.)

eagles [36]. However, males sometimes produce mixed part [46]. Following this initial training, we broadcast segments
sequences, i.e. some pyows followed by some hacks, which of natural call sequences originally recorded from individuals
reliably predicts group movement [16]. In playback exper- discovering either kiwi or apple. Although sequences consisted
iments, pyow-hack sequences triggered movements by of only four calls (table 2), subjects responded in highly predict-
subjects towards the speaker, in contrast to pyow or hack able ways, such that sequences originally given to kiwi triggered
series [37], suggesting that listeners attend to the permutation mainly searching in the kiwi field whereas the opposite was
tule. The variable number of pyows and hacks in natural observed with sequences originally given to apples.
pyow-hack combinations had no measurable impact on recipi- Are bonobo food calls compositional? As mentioned, defi-
ent responses [38]. Due to the fact that the apparent meaning of nitions of language are based on the notion that the meaning
the pyow-hack sequence cannot be inferred from the individ- of a complex expression is fully determined by its structure
ual meanings, the system does not qualify as compositional and the meanings of its constituents [47]. If permutation
but has been interpreted as idiomatic [39]. (order) is an essential requirement for ‘structure’, then neither
titi monkey alarm calling nor bonobo food calling qualify as
(iii) Combination syntax compositional. However, in both systems, there is a curious pres-
As opposed to permutation, combinatoriality is defined as ‘the ence of bigrams, which appears to play an organizing role. In titi
selection of a given number of elements from a larger number monkeys, the proportion of B-call bigrams explained much of
without regard to their arrangement’. A first relevant example the monkeys’ production and response patterns. In bonobos,
is titi monkey alarm calling where adults produce A and B the meaning of the sequence appears to be determined by the
calls to aerial and terrestrial predators, respectively [40,41]. same principle: 15 of 17 playback sequences contained bigrams
This basic pattern is disrupted if predators are detected in of B, P PY and Y calls, and the presence of such structures
non-standard locations, i.e. a raptor on the ground or a terres- explained to a large degree the subsequent search behaviour.