regulation of the apoptotic process by 20E. In Lepidoptera, The autophagic pathway in the fat body is elicited by 20E
IAPs are highly expressed at the end of the last larval stage through a twofold activation process. In fact, the 20E commit-
when the 20E commitment peak occurs [30-35] and the high ment peak during larval-pupal transition inhibits the PI3K/
levels of IAPs can likely block the activation of caspases. Con- Torel (Target of rapamycin complex 1) pathway and activates
versely, after metamorphosis begins, and concomitantly with the downstream Atg1/Atg13 complex, thus inducing autop-
the occurrence of the 20E metamorphic peak, the expression hagosome initiation. In parallel, 20E also contributes to
of IAPs decreases, while the mRNA levels of death activator autophagosome formation by upregulating the transcription
genes and caspase reach a maximum, a clear indication of of ATG genes: this effect is mediated by the action of
the shift of the cells to the apoptotic condition. This evidence Broad-Complex (Br-C) and downstream proteins, but also
confirms the existence of a cross-link between IAPs and cas- through direct interaction with the promoter of ATG genes,
pases in regulating the activation of apoptosis in Lepidoptera as demonstrated for BmATG1 [46]. Data on the midgut sup-
and suggests that these anti-apoptotic proteins may play a port the double regulatory effects of 20E on autophagy in
role in the two-step process needed to activate apoptosis fol- lepidopteran organs. In fact, a single dose of ecdysone in
lowing the 20E peaks. Recently, the Hippo signalling this tissue can induce the transcription of ATG genes and,

pathway, which controls the organ size by restricting cell at the same time, activate the autophagic flux through


Torel inhibition [30]. By using loss-of-function and gain-of- inhibitors significantly delay larval midgut degeneration,

function approaches, it has been recently demonstrated that thus demonstrating that apoptosis is sufficient to drive this

not only ecdysone biosynthesis but also 20E depletion is fun- process during metamorphosis [30]. The precise role of

damental for regulating autophagy-mediated tissue autophagy in this scenario can be appreciated by considering