ecdysone receptor (EcR) and ultraspiracle (USP), this hor- and prevent the inappropriate activation of caspases during = >
mone elicits the transcription of early and late genes and development, and that various IAPs may play specific, distinct =
the activation of apoptosis. Accordingly, RNAi-mediated roles at different developmental stages. g
knockdown of USP decreases the expression of apoptosis- To fully understand the regulatory process of apoptosis, ©
related genes and reduces apoptosis in B. mori larval fat JH must also be considered. In fact, studies based on the S
body [27]. However, regulation of apoptosis by 20E in Lepi- administration of methoprene, a JH analogue, indicate that
doptera may be more complex than expected. In fact, based JH plays an inhibitory role towards apoptosis in many tissues S
on studies performed in the anterior silk gland of B. mori, it [33]. In particular, the anterior silk glands become competent a
has been proposed that cell death is regulated by a double to respond to 20E before the prepupal period and the com-
pulse of 20E, which peaks twice during larval-pupal tran- mitment to die is preceded by a loss of sensitivity to JH [3].
sition [28]. In particular, the first ecdysone peak (named the Moreover, Wang et al. [39] demonstrated that the counteract-
commitment peak) drives a genomic response by upregulat- ing activity of 20E and JH in inducing cell death is mediated
ing the expression of apoptosis-related genes. This effect is by different levels of calcium mobilization. In fact, upon bind-
mediated by the binding of 20E to the EcR/USP receptor ing to GPCRs, 20E induces high calcium levels in the cell
complex. A second pulse of hormone (the so-called meta- activating caspases and inducing apoptosis, while lower cal-
morphic peak) occurs later, at pupal stage, and is much cium levels, induced by JH, have the opposite effect.
stronger than the commitment peak. The effects of this
second wave of ecdysone are instead mediated by a putative (b) The autophagic process in Lepidoptera
ecdysone membrane receptor, probably a G protein-coupled A genome-wide search of autophagy-related genes per-
receptor (GPCR), which activates effector caspases and triggers formed in 2009 paved the way for the molecular analysis of
apoptosis (non-genomic response) [28]. The involvement of the autophagic process in Lepidoptera [40]. Homologues of
GPCRs in mediating 20E signalling that leads to apoptosis several Atg proteins as well as factors involved in the PI3K
has been reported in H. armigera as well [29]. Similar to the signal transduction pathway were soon identified, thus
silk gland, a biphasic activation of the apoptotic process by demonstrating the existence of a well-organized autophagic
20E has also been observed in the silkworm midgut. In par- pathway in these insects [19,30,40-44]. Zhou et al. [45] also