over, since no subsequent fertilization of either the larva or failed to do any experiments, less than 20 years later the
the pupa takes place, he concludes that fertilization is younger Italian scientist Francesco Redi (1668) interrogated
unnecessary for the development of the perfect adult insect. the idea of spontaneous generation with a practical test

Why did Harvey go to such trouble to deny the egg-nature [34,45]. Only 17 years after the publication of Harvey’s
of a holometabolous insect egg? I suggest that it can only be book, Redi found by covering a vessel with a cloth that fly
because he could not exclude the possibility of spontaneous larvae are not generated on putrefying matter unless adult
generation, which ever since Aristotle had been generally flies are allowed access. Famously, this was among the first
supposed to account for the generation of such insects. scientific experiments to include a proper control, in which

the covering cloth was omitted from a similar carcass.
When reporting his own results, of course, Redi was keen
to draw attention to the fact that in De generatione Harvey

16. Harvey: spontaneous generation had been reluctant to state that spontaneous generation did
Thus, Harvey is obliged by his own logic to suppose that not occur. Thus, he was able to represent his own paper as
holometabolous insects do not undertake sexual reproduc- a refutation of Harvey's position [8]. Having said_ this,
tion. Just as was the case for Aristotle 2000 years though, although Redi’s experiment conclusively showed
previously, Harvey is forced to deny the reality of what he that flies are not spontaneously generated within an animal
has himself seen by saying: carcass, it took more than another 100 years before a general

But some of these spontaneously developed creatures, although disproof of spontaneous generation in other organisms was
they copulate in appearance, either do not beget or else they accomplished [8,34,45].

beget only some other thing... just as out of some caterpillars