can be substituted. This supposition does not fit with the this decision is not properly explained, but it is pertinent =
idea presented elsewhere in Generation of animals that that Aristotle notes that copulation can readily be observed “S
Pneuma is not a material resource; moreover, since in this in vespid wasps and hornets, and these are similar kinds of =
case Pneuma can evidently be acquired by both male and insects to bees). S
female larvae, it also does not explain why in hemimetabo- The philosopher now has a problem. Surely if bees do ©
lous insects (just as is the case in sanguineous animals), copulate then they should belong to that category of insects =
Pneuma can be supplied only by the father. The philosopher which he has elsewhere asserted produce perfect offspring? 5
does not seem to notice that he has previously asserted that it But Aristotle correctly notes that although bees (and other = =
is only the female that contributes material to the egg, and social hymenopterans) copulate, they nonetheless produce =
that the male’s contribution to generation is limited to that obviously imperfect offspring in the form of larvae, which = __
of specifying form. (This is, of course, a quibble: today we follow a typical holometabolan life history: =
see no problem in allowing that the informational content ; ; ey
of the male’s contribution to the offspring is in fact embodied The same sequence of development is followed by other insects. 5

. : which arise out of larvae, both those larvae which arise as the
in the material substance DNA.) result of copulation of living animals and those which arise with- =
out copulation. Thus: the larvae of bees, anthrenas and wasps, Rg
while they are young take nourishment and are clearly seen to x
12 Aristotle: the problem of honeybees have excrement; but when they have passed from the larva S
. . stage to their clearly-defined stage—being then called pupae— i
Aristotle comes up against a particularly puzzling problem they take no nourishment and have no excrement; they remain Ss
stationary, shut up inside, until their growth is complete, and s

with honeybees, insects that he evidently studied in consider-
able detail himself as well as consulting professional