While ONT and PacBio sequencers make it possible to template switching as featured in the Smart-seq2 protocol [18]. 5!
sequence entire transcripts end-to-end, this only matters if This RT step generates CDNA with known 3’ and 5’ ends that = =
the vast majority of sequenced transcript molecules are fully can be polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplified. PCR amplifi- =
intact. The integrity of RNA going into long-read sequencing cation is required to generate enough cDNA for sequencing = &
experiments is therefore of the highest importance. However, library preparation—several micrograms for either technology. =
it is not yet clear what represents the best extraction and However, if CDNA is PCR amplified, short transcripts are more = >!
processing method for RNA. likely to be successfully amplified, thereby generating a pool of s

Single-cell studies circumvent this issue by performing cDNA skewed towards full-length short transcripts (less than S
reverse transcription (RT) directly on cell lysates resulting in 2 kb) and shorter amplification artefacts of long transcripts. S
high-quality results [30,32], but this is not possible for bulk While ONT sequencers can now sequence RNA directly,
samples comprising tissues or many cells because highly con- recent studies have shown that this does not overcome RNA
centrated cell lysates inhibit RT reactions. Current efforts to degradation or length-bias issues. In fact, incomplete transcript
dissociate, lyse and extract RNA from bulk samples mostly sequences represent the majority of the produced data and this
rely on physical disruption and trizol or tri-reagent based pro- issue increases with increased transcript length making direct
tocols. These protocols are either followed by precipitations RNA sequencing currently challenging for transcripts over
often resulting in phenol and guanidium contamination 2 kb in length (figure 2) [28].
which can compromise RNA integrity, or require a column- In addition to length biases of sample preparation, both
based clean-up potentially fragmenting long RNA transcripts PacBio and ONT sequencers themselves have a bias towards
in a way similar to high molecular weight genomic DNA. shorter molecules.

Going forward we will need systematic studies comparing To systematically test the bias of different RNA extraction,
extraction methods for the integrity for very long transcripts sample preparation and sequencing methods, new approaches
(greater than 10 kb) which cannot be measured by the frequently will be needed. Unfortunately, current synthetic RNA spike-in
used RNA Integrity Number value which is calculated by mixtures like External RNA Controls Consortium and spike-