phyte Ochromonas CCMP2951, the food vacuole is clearly visible nuclear (18S) or plastid (16S) rRNA sequence consisted of cryp-
after staining (figure 4a). Importantly, photosynthetic eukaryotes tophytes, prymnesiophytes and several photosynthetic
contain multiple acidic structures, including the thylakoid lumen stramenopile groups, including chrysophytes and dictyocho-
that can reach values below pH 5 under stressful conditions [88]. phytes, but also diatoms (figure 5b, electronic supplementary
Thus, verification of the intracellular position of acidic compart- material file S3). While most of these groups include mixo-
ments is important, and without such verification results can trophic species and their recovery is therefore in line with the
be misleading. assumption that the acidotropic dye signal originates from

Although acidotropic dyes have already been employed to food vacuoles, diatoms do not. Moreover, water collected
report on mixotrophs in natural communities [65,89,90], care- from the same station six weeks earlier showed a distinct popu-
ful verification of their reliability is lacking. Here, we sorted lation of LysoTracker positive, pigmented eukaryotes, which
populations, or individual cells, of potentially mixotrophic consisted entirely of photosynthetic stramenopiles, more
protists from sites in the eastern North Pacific by FACS (see specifically the diatom genus Minidiscus (figure 5d). Diatoms
detail of methods in the electronic supplementary material) have been studied extensively, but not found capable of preda-
using acidotropic probes. For example, cells stained with Lyso- tion, and the signal most likely originated from the acidic silica
Sensor and sorted by FACS based on that signal from an deposition vesicles during the formation of their frustules [91].
oligotrophic site in the eastern North Pacific show different Although the dye signal was somewhat weaker compared with
scenarios. Both show localized staining resembling food vacu- the putative mixotrophs sorted later, it was higher than the con-
oles (figure 4b), but one also shows signal localization within trol. Notably, some members of the groups captured in May
the plastid (figure 4c) that likely results from staining of an also make siliceous structures, which could be the source of
acidic thylakoid lumen. Staining by acidotropic probes there- signal. The question remains open whether it is possible to
fore does not ensure the presence of food vacuoles and reliably define a threshold to distinguish signals derived
non-feeding related staining is more likely to occur in photo- from food vacuoles versus other acidic compartments, and so
synthetic (due to lumen acidity) compared to heterotrophic far, the risk of protists falsely identified as mixotrophs needs
protists. To assess the taxonomic identity of putative predatory to be considered when applying acidotropic probes in natural