assessment of the feasibility of establishing grasslands at (e) First-cut business plan for Arctic megafaunal +
scale. Initial monitoring data with belowground temperature : : : -
sensors have shown a maximum difference of 14°C in a ecological engineering =
heavily grazed fenced area versus a control area (—24°C We have calculated an approximate cost of the bison, horse —S'
versus —10°C at 25 cm, —20°C versus —9°C at 50 cm, —16°C and reindeer component of an MEG. We have included PA
versus —8°C at 90 cm; March 2018), but more importantly, reindeer in this costing exercise because they are available =
mean soil annual temperatures 2.2°C cooler in grazed areas, for purchase, they have a distinct ecological niche and func- = &
as well as increased carbon sequestration in the first 1m of tion, and their inclusion would increase the speed of the =
soil in grazed areas [77]. Furthermore, Pleistocene Park has experimental and establishment phases, although because >
developed practical knowledge on the logistics of translocat- they are present in most Arctic lands, their introduction might N
ing animals, and generated creative and grounded insight on not be required in some cases. We estimate an experimental s
herbivore ecology and future strategies for scaling up. Lastly, 10-yr implementation cost of 1 MEG to be US$383 000. Ss
the fact that one family in a remote location has successfully This figure includes costs on animal purchase (5 bison, 7.5
overcome major translocation challenges with their own Yakutian horses, 15 reindeer), translocation (transport,
resources only suggests that an organized and properly permit fees, food), introduction (fencing and other infrastruc-
financed effort could achieve major impact. ture, winter fodder, husbandry for 10 years). The figure is

derived from a combination of local price knowledge of
horse and reindeer and experience of translocating large

(d) Strategy for creating a rolling frontier herbivores to the Pleistocene Park, 2018 US bison auction
Large-scale MEE would require an experimental, design and prices and a rough quote for airfreight bison from Chicago
socialization phase followed by an implementation phase. to Magadan from a leading livestock transport firm. The
We envisage that the first phase would comprise three cost assumes that bison will be sourced from North American
components that could be completed within 10 years: ranches in shipments of 120 (= sole freight charter) which