neglects hydrodynamic interactions between different parts low Reynolds number can be considered force-free and S
of the sperm cell or nearby boundary surfaces. Readers inter- torque-free. The condition of force-free and torque-free swim-
ested in hydrodynamic subtleties involved in self-propulsion ming allows computation of the translational and rotational
of sperm cells are referred to [26-28]. velocities of an undulatory swimmer with a prescribed beat pat-

tern in a self-consistent manner (electronic supplementary
material, note S1). In the following, we will characterize the fla-

2. Low Reyn olds numbers im ply instantaneous gellar beat pattern by the flagellar curvature C(s,t), where s is the
. . arc-length coordinate along the flagellum and t the time, and we
erminal velocity will compute the motion of sperm using the resistive-force
Is water viscous? The answer to this question depends on theory established by Gray & Hancock [25]. As a note, this
the relevant length-scale (L) and velocities (v) of the body theory shows that sperm propulsion is enabled by the fact that
that moves in this fluid. Specifically, given a value of about a slender object has unequal friction coefficients € and €, for
n= 107° Pas for the dynamic water viscosity, it is not possible tangential and perpendicular motions, respectively. For a thin
to affirm whether this value is small or large. We can only rod, the ratio g=§,/é\ is approximately 2. The anisotropy
compare this value with other values and make a statement ratio can be selected to fit data for different species, waveforms
based on a dimensionless ratio. and surrounding environment. Previous studies on bull sperm
The dimensionless Reynolds number ratio serves such found that a value of § © 1.81 produced an excellent fit to the
comparison: Re=pLv/n. It characterizes the importance of experimental data [30]. In the following, we will use this value
inertial forces relative to viscous forces. For a macroscopic for quantitative estimates of swimming parameters.

object moving in water (fluid density p= 10° kg m™), such

as a swimming human or a propelling boat, this number