tially embedded within the structure of the otolith. Efficient penetrant: a typical defect is the presence of three otoliths
production or nucleation of the precursor particles, in both rather than two, which may resolve over time to give the
zebrafish and medaka, appears to require the activity of the normal pattern.
enzyme polyketide synthase [41,45,46]. Growing zebrafish A breakthrough in understanding came from the unex-
otoliths incorporate a number of proteins, including Otolith pected observation that homozygous maternal-zygotic (MZ)
Matrix Protein-1, Sparc, Starmaker and others [47-50]. Excit- mutants for an intraflagellar transport (IFT) gene, ift88, which
ing progress is being made in elucidating the mechanism of lack cilia altogether [62], havea similarly mild otolith phenotype
otolith biomineralization, which is dependent on the activity [2] (figure 1e,f). On close inspection, the otoliths in MZift38'?78°"
of the calcium-binding protein Starmaker [43,50,51] and the mutants formed close to the surface of the sensory epithelium,
conserved proton-selective ion channel Otopetrin 1 [44,52-54]. but still nucleated on time at the poles of the ear, in close proxi-
A defect in otolith formation is a signature phenotype mity to the tether cells, which are present but lack kinocilia in
of almost all zebrafish ciliary mutants and morphants this mutant. This suggested that both the immotile tether kino-
described to date, including those with a loss of ciliary motility cilia and ciliary motility are, in fact, dispensable for otolith

[2,9,36,55-61]. This observation led to the idea that ciliary formation. Notably, premature aggregation of otolith precursor


articles was not observed in either MZift88'72°*" mutants (lack- the apical surface of the senso: atch, and it is this structure
P P TY Pi

ing cilia altogether) or in the Irrc50 (dnaaf1) mutant, which lacks that now tethers the otolith to its cognate sensory epithelium
ciliary motility (figure 1c,d) [2,31,32], and so the proposition [66]. Several protein components of the otolith and otolithic
that ciliary flow acts to prevent premature aggregation of otolith membrane in zebrafish are conserved with those of otoconia
precursor particles seems unlikely. and the otoconial membrane, respectively, in vestibular
