which boundaries play an essential role in ordering active take place entirely within the same cell. One classic example
non-equilibrium systems [6]. is flagellar regeneration in the biflagellate alga Chlamydomo-

nas, where amputated flagella can be regrown to full length
in about 1.5h [15,16], whereupon biflagellar coordination

(b) Stentor: the trumpet animalcule also recovers [17,18]. But how do protists, which have to
The first recorded account of Stentor was made by Abraham regenerate tens of thousands of cilia, recover from such inju-
Trembley F.R.S, who in a letter to the president of the Royal ries? Stentor was a favoured organism for studies of
Society [1, p.169], wrote ‘I have herewith the honour of trans- regeneration by early researchers owing to its large size, man-
mitting to you the particulars of several observations I have oeuvrability, and remarkable regenerative capabilities [19].
made, during the course of the last summer, upon some Questioning the limits of cellular indivisibility led the likes
species of very minute Water-Animals...’. (In fact, at the of Lillie and Morgan [20,21] to conduct dissection exper-
time Trembley had misidentified these organisms as Hydra iments on Stentor to determine the minimal ingredients for
[7].) Stentor are so-named for their trumpet-like morphology, regeneration. They found that the smallest fragments capable
in honour of a loud-voiced Greek hero who fought in the of regenerating into new, viable individuals were spheroids of
Trojan War. These unicellular ciliates occur widely in both only < 100 pm in diameter. Nucleated fragments, irrespective
freshwater and marine habitats, and exhibit both free-swim- of whether they originate from the head or tail, are all capable
ming and sedentary characteristics depending on of full regeneration. The oral apparatus (including MB, fron-
environmental circumstance. Individual cells undergo tal field and mouth parts) is the most differentiated cortical
dynamic and extensive shape changes owing to a highly con- landmark of Stentor, and is routinely regenerated. Two dis-
tractile cortical structure, assuming a pear or tear-drop shape tinct physiological processes can elicit the same
when free-swimming, contracting into a ball when disturbed, characteristic developmental sequence. In the first, a cell
or else extending up to 1 mm in a rest state in which cells undertaking cell division will form a second oral primordium
become attached to substrates via a posterior holdfast on its ventral surface, which eventually develops into the new