ation of the MA experiment, whole-genome sequencing of all mtDNA concentration] /total mtDNA concentration). This quantity 7
35 MA lines and their ancestral pre-MA control was conducted was then compared to the nuclear DNA concentration to determine 8
via Illumina paired-ends sequencing and all mtDNA mutations relative mtDNA copy-number per cell. Droplets were generated =
across the 35 MA lines were identified [44]. MA line 1G was using the BioRad Automated Droplet Generator. Droplet gener- &
found to harbour five heteroplasmic mtDNA mutations relative ation was considered successful if more than 7000 droplets were =~
to the ancestral control: (i) a G > T substitution in the tRNA-Asn generated. Subsequently, the PCR droplets were read on a BioRad 3
gene (frequency 13%), (ii) a 499 bp frameshift deletion in the QX200 Droplet Reader and droplet distribution was analysed by o
ctb-1 gene (frequency 96%), (iii) a single T insertion in a homopo- the automated threshold setting in QuaNtisorr and inspected visu- x
lymeric run within the nd5 gene [(T)g > (T)o, frequency 3%], (iv) an ally. The FAM probe used for the ctb-1 WT is slightly more sS
insertion of a T pair in a homopolymeric run within the nd5 gene efficient than the HEX probe used for cox-1. Asa result, when C. ele- Ss
[(T)g > (T)10, frequency 70%], and (v) a C>T nonsynonymous gans N2 DNA is used as a template for these ddPCR reactions, the s
substitution (Thr = Ile) in the nd5 gene (frequency 94%). Owing heteroplasmic Actb-1 are negative (—0.099, s.d.=0.028). This is
to the presence of three high-frequency (greater than or equal to owing to the fact that the heteroplasmy frequency was calculated
70%) heteroplasmic mtDNA mutations in line 1G, it is likely that by subtracting the frequency of ctb-1 WT from that of cox-1.
the majority of mtDNA molecules within this lineage harbour
more than one of these heteroplasmic mtDNA variants. Given . . . :
that the ctb-1 deletion is the heteroplasmy with the highest fre- (d) Estimating the frequencies of heteroplasmic
quency and is easily genotyped by polymerase chain reaction mutations in nd5 and tRNA-Asn

(PCR), we refer to the mutant mitotypes as Actb-1-bearing

The intracellular fi ies of nd5 and - i
mtDNA or Actb-1 mitotype for the sake of simplicity. e intracellular frequencies of nd5 and tRNA-Asn mutations were

determined from Sanger sequencing. The following primers