we suggest here. Moreover, if the gene flow is fairly these types of situations may lead to population structure =>
random, it will link strains between populations in a more that is less clear than those identified in the model systems = 5
or less haphazard way, so that connections are fairly unstruc- we analysed, the gene flow patterns are nonetheless biologi- =
tured. Indeed, many of the acquired genes may be lost fairly cally relevant and may lead to interesting hypotheses about >
quickly if they are, as seems likely, at least slightly deleterious the environmental selection. Ss
to the recipient genome [11]. Hence, populations and possibly We stress that any population structure prediction rep- =
species are indeed fuzzy units owing to horizontal gene resents a hypothesis in itself and needs to be carefully = 5!
transfer, but such fuzziness does not preclude their definition analysed as it may be affected by sampling and other factors. 5
as ecological units if gene flow is sufficiently biased towards However, we believe that if populations carry signatures of =
within-population recombination to allow for adaptations to specific adaptations, such as gene-specific sweeps (figure 4), | &
sweep in a specific manner. these serve as some of the strongest possible evidence that
A constant sampling of genetic material from divergent the predicted population represents an ecological unit and S
sources can, in fact, provide the raw material for adaptation hence the most relevant unit for community ecology. &
[11]. Although it is widely accepted that evolutionary inno- s
vation can arise by horizontal addition of genes into the a
genome, the extent to which even allelic sweeps arose hori- 8. What are key properties of populations ~
zontally rather than by mutation within the population was . ?
surprising in our recent analysis of the recently differentiated defined by gene flow?
Ruminococcus populations discussed above. The vast majority One striking feature of the populations identified here is that
of adaptive alleles we were able to identify were horizontally they contain relatively low nucleotide diversity in their core
acquired from divergent sources [32]. Similarly, an adaptive genome, ie. in the genes shared by all. The genomes of
radiation that differentiated closely related populations of both bacteria and archaea analysed so far are typically
ocean bacteria for different physical forms of the same poly- more than 98% similar in the nucleotide sequence within
saccharide was based on acquisition and loss dynamics of populations, which is consistent with data obtained from a
genes [36]. Even multiple copies of the same polysaccharide different approach for predicting population structure [41].