Females tend to prefer dominant males [16,18,23-25]. (d) Human olfactory cues to competition and

Females are attracted to the scent of dominant males’ urine aggression

and spend more time in areas associated with the odour of Relative dominance and rank in a dominance hierarchy are
a dominant male [26]. On the day before becoming sexually established via repeated agonistic interactions between indi-
receptive, females also mark more frequently in a dominant viduals, which are often accompanied by aggression.
male’s area, which usually prompts the male to investigate Consistent winners of such competitive encounters are con-
the space [12] and increases the likelihood of mating with sidered dominant and losers subordinate. Olfactory cues to
the dominant male. Preference for dominant males would competition or aggressive state were also found in humans.
be especially advantageous for females if male dominance The ability to recognize aggressive states by olfaction,

rank were heritable. In fact, Drickamer ef al. [27] showed among other cues, would help humans to detect individuals


who may pose a threat and avoid potential harm by reacting challenges for territory. This effect is described by the ‘chal- El

before such an individual starts behaving aggressively. lenge hypothesis’, which was first proposed by Wingfield
Axillary samples collected during a competition (badmin- et al. [51] and further applied to human behaviour by 3
ton match) elicited a larger skin conductance response (SCR; Mazur and colleagues [52,53 but see 54]. According to this z
a marker of sympathetic autonomic activity associated with hypothesis, T rises shortly before a contest in anticipation of =
arousal and orienting towards a meaningful stimulus, and as part of preparation for the challenge. Victory then “S
whereby emotionally significant stimuli usually elicit a leads to an increase in T and decrease in cortisol (C) levels, = =
larger SCR) in raters than samples taken during a non- while in losers, the effect is opposite [55,56]. For instance, S
competitive control sport condition (running). When compet- in chacma baboons (Papio hamadryas ursinus), T levels ©