taken to imply that odour imagery relies on language, this (e.g. vision and audition) there will be a direct connection
seems at odds with the corollary that odour naming is diffi- between a sensory image and the body. To put it another
cult in the first place. Instead, it is likely that some third way, the image should to some extent be possible to repro-
factor underlies both ease of odour imagery and odour duce with the body both directly (e.g. mimicking sounds)
naming, namely how deeply entrenched the underlying and indirectly (e.g. creating sounds with instruments). The
odour representation is in the first place. important notion is not that this process should result in a
Consistent with this, olfactory experts (such as perfu- perfect reconstruction of the primary sensory stimulus in
mers), who are much better at odour imagery, undergo the real world, but simply that there is the possibility to
considerable perceptual training and show both cortical reproduce it. The possibility is the key.
and functional changes [51,52]. Critically, the cortical Conversely, for weak embodiment, there is no direct
changes seem to be restricted to primary and secondary connection between an image and the body. The only link
olfactory areas, but not areas involved in semantic proces- is indirect and related to other factors (i.e. states) that could
sing. In fact, the functional brain architecture during odour be present during actual perception of the sensory stimuli
imagery in expert perfumers suggests a negative association (e.g. eye-saccades for vision [58] or sniffing for odour percep-
between the level of odour expertise and involvement of tion [59,60]), or the simulation of bodily emotional states
semantic memory networks [52]. In a similar vein, it has (e.g. goose bumps or facial expression). Whereas weak embo-
been shown that for people with acquired anosmia the dur- diment results in fewer opportunities to train the mental
ation of olfactory loss affects brain activity during odour image, high embodiment allows frequent, and also incidental
imagery, with longer periods of being without the sense of opportunities for practice of imagery. So, for olfaction, early
smell being associated with increased activation in areas chemosensory communication between the fetus and the

underlying episodic memory [53]. mother in combination with post-birth continuous exposure


access to sensory stimulus from