handshake. How hand sniffing behaviour after greeting a than for the positive descriptors (right side of the graphs).
person of the opposite sex could be related with the evaluation This was true both for head odours (bottom graph, figure 2b.2)
processes of a potential reproductive partner is an aspect that and even more for axillary odours (top graph, figure 2a.2) for
should be investigated further. Finally, other body odour which men and women seem to present different patterns of
sources have been investigated for other purposes than study- unpleasant features. The diversity in body odour quality
ing human attractiveness to conspecifics. These studies often between individuals may thus rest upon chemical compounds
favour analytical views of the emitted odour over behavioural that are rather unpleasant, especially in the axilla. A relevant
approaches. Their aims range from (i) managing malodorous question for research in the coming years is whether olfactory
emanations (e.g. from feet [64], urine [65], flatus [66], but also attractiveness is based on some (to be defined) pleasant attri-
related to ageing [67]), (ii) diagnosing diseases (e.g. cancer, butes, or on the absence of some (to be defined, too)
from breath [68]), (iii) forensic applications (e.g. odours from unpleasant attributes that are cues of poor health/of other
hands [69], internal organs [70]), to (iv) understanding the unwanted features in a reproductive partner, or on both (the
spreading of diseases (owing to blood-sucking insects attracted second option being supported by the fact that diversity is
by human hand odour [71] or feet odour [72]). higher within the unpleasant pole of descriptors).
Returning to body odour attractiveness, it is crucial to Interestingly, head and axillary odour attractiveness were
consider odours that may be meaningful during interactions highly correlated in women (r= 0.87, p < 0.0001) and signifi-
with the partner, namely odours emitted by body parts that cantly less in men (r= 0.40, p=0.128; figure 1c; comparison
are sampled voluntarily or—more likely—in a non-conscious between rs: p=0.028). It cannot be excluded that a bias
manner. This includes more particularly the head (face, hair, could have accounted for these results: a potential greater
neck and mouth), the hands, the axilla and the genital areas. use of perfumed cosmetics in women may have homogen-

Here, we present the results of a perceptual study comparing ized the olfactory signature of different body parts (through


Fa Fa &