
"Transient receptor potential, V1.
PIsolectin B4.
‘Calcitonin gene-related polypeptide.

3. Translational pain experiments induced analgesia gene, in both mice and humans. Thus, in
this series of experiments, a mouse finding inspired a human
My laboratory has, over the past few years, attempted to study that revealed subtleties that were then directly testable
perform wholly translational pain studies in which essen- in new mouse experiments. Very few such examples of
tially the same experiment is performed in mice and mouse-to-human-to-mouse translations have ever been
humans and reported contemporaneously. Three such reported, but the paradigm is certainly a powerful one.
projects are particularly noteworthy. Empathy is often held up as a human-specific ability, inac-
Differences among mouse strains in their sensitivity to cessible to other animals. In fact, there have been scientific and
various modalities of pain are ubiquitous and robust [42]. anecdotal reports to the contrary, but these have been largely
One of the most reliable of these is the difference between dismissed as anthropomorphizing (see [40]). In 2006, we pro-
the A/J and C57BL/6 J strains, which are resistant and sensi- vided comprehensive evidence that mice were capable of a
tive, respectively, to inflammatory noxious stimuli causing rudimentary form of empathy [46], albeit one that all more
tonic (on the order of minutes) nocifensive behaviours such complex forms are probably dependent on: emotional conta-
as formalin (late-phase) and capsaicin licking [43-45]. Using gion. These experiments demonstrated that mice displayed
an F, intercross between mice of these strains, we localized higher levels of pain behaviour when tested alongside familiar
the genomic region containing a gene responsible for a (but not stranger) conspecifics, and featured synchronization
large portion of this strain-dependent response to distal of both level and timing of that behaviour within the dyad.
mouse chromosome 10 [44]. The region in question contained This finding has been replicated and extended in a number
hundreds of genes, however, and various ‘positional cloning’ of ways, and the study of empathy-like processes in rodents
techniques were employed until the responsible gene was is now an active subfield of social/cognitive neuroscience