information on the spatio-temporal organization of the poss- processes would additionally recruit posterior temporal and = >
ible underlying mechanisms. This endeavour is a stepping inferior frontal cortices. Pylkkanen [44] discusses MEG exper- =
stone to a full causal analysis of the mechanism at work: iments on the role of the anterior temporal lobe (ATL) in &
here, the aim is to develop an aetiological explanation of meaning semantic processing. She argues that left ATL responses are =
composition in neural terms, fleshing out the causal history of sensitive to subtle conceptual semantic relations between >!
interactions between the relevant brain networks, while also words, in ways that are not predicted by the standard account N
showing that that history achieves the formal requirements of composition in formal semantics. Pylkkanen’s [44] perspective s
espoused by linguistic theory and data. This requires the mod- raises the issue whether neural correlates of syntactic and logico- S
eller to go beyond the kind of descriptive, phenomenological and semantic composition—beyond conceptual combination—
constitutive explanations currently on the market, that is, state- may /will be identified, and if not, what that means for the role
ments to the effect that such-and-such brain networks or of syntax and logic in the architecture of language. Hagoort
neurophysiological events constitute the relevant mechanisms, [45] presents a model of dynamic interaction between temporo-
and therefore may ‘explain’ composition (for a discussion, see parietal and inferior frontal cortex. He emphasizes the fact that
[38,39]). On the other hand, the task is to develop implementa- language interpretation typically happens in rich conversational
tional models of specific algorithms and computations, if not settings, which provide multi-modal information cues for the
necessarily of the actual formalisms used in traditional logical construction of models that go beyond a syntax-driven combi-
semantics or in contemporary computational linguistics. In nation of lexical meanings. A neurobiology of linguistic
other words, computational explicitness should not be renounced meaning should address, also through mechanistic models,
for causal detail. This is a challenge for all multilevel, integrative this non-compositional process of meaning construction. Calmus
efforts in the cognitive sciences (for a discussion of compu- et al. [46] develop a neurocognitive account of combinatorial
tational mechanisms, see [40,41]; for a key discussion of binding that aims to explain how (hierarchical) dependency
tractability, see [42]). relations are recovered from serial order in (meaningful)
The aim of this theme issue is to assess current algorith- sequences. Their account focuses on interactions between inferior
mic- and neural-level models of composition in brains and frontal and temporal cortical structures, striving to capture
machines: are these models mechanistic in the relevant experimental data from structured sequence learning tasks.