highlighted through the comparison of two activation likeli- naming errors: patients with SD produce high-frequency coor-
hood meta-analyses. One meta-analysis by Noonan et al. dinate responses (CAMEL— HORSE) and superordinate errors
[59] identified common activation across diverse manipula- (CAMEL ANIMAL), while those with SA sometimes produce
tions of semantic control demands, including the contrast low frequency object names (CAMEL— ZEBRA) and_ thematic
of weak versus strong thematic associations, ambiguous associations (CAMEL — PYRAMIDS), which rely on knowledge that
versus non-ambiguous words and strong versus weaker dis- is largely not retained in SD [31]. The CSC framework offers a
tractors. Left pMTG along with IFG, and pre-supplementary different account of why patients with damage to ATL versus
motor cortex, were found to respond in all of these contrasts left temporoparietal cortex (along with IFG) make taxonomic
(figure 2). The opposite pattern was found for left AG in a and thematic errors, respectively. By this view, picture
meta-analysis by Humphreys & Lambon Ralph [62]: this naming errors in SD patients reflect degradation of conceptual
site responded to ‘automatic’ semantic tasks without signifi- knowledge, while errors in SA reflect difficulty constraining
cant control demands (e.g. strong > weak associations), as retrieval to suit the demands of the task (as opposed to
well as to the retrieval of episodic and numerical facts from damage to taxonomic and thematic hubs respectively). The
long-term memory. coordinate and superordinate responses occur in SD because
In line with the CSC framework, convergent evidence these patients retain general information better than the differ-
across multiple methods shows that left pMTG forms a func- entiating features of specific concepts. By contrast, associative
tional network for semantic control along with left IFG. First, and coordinate errors in SA may reflect difficulty selecting an
lesions centred on either left IFG or pMTG in the context of appropriate response among competing alternatives [30,31].
semantic aphasia (SA) are associated with disordered semantic Although patients with SA have large left-hemisphere
retrieval [31,63], suggesting these sites play a critical role in lesions, and thus are not well-suited to establishing the brain
semantic control. Although patients with SA and SD fail the regions that support semantic control with high spatial pre-
same range of semantic tasks—including tests of object identi- cision, brain stimulation studies of healthy participants

fication, thematic matching and synonym judgement—they provide convergent evidence of a necessary role for both left
