in logic, syntax and semantics. The long-term goal is an inte- explain how data are generated by the system under scrutiny.

grative framework, in which theories of meaning Current formal theories in AI, psychology and neuro-
composition are connected seamlessly across levels of analysis science continue to face dire problems of explanatory

[26]. The 15 contributions presented in this theme issue are adequacy and power, because they are focused on providing
intended to make headway towards this ambitious goal, and either models of data (e.g. statistical models) or models of tasks = =
to do so in a way that is consistent with what is known about obtained via approximation of human or machine behaviour, >
neural computation in the human brain. and not models of the mechanisms that generate those data or of

system behaviours that have not been (or cannot be) observed = =
in restricted data-collection settings, e.g. a laboratory. This ==
focus, or lack of focus, is exacerbated by the fact that current a

2. Mechanistic models models are not instantiated within a developing theory of =
Recent progress in the cognitive and brain sciences suggests human capacities, when in our view, they should be by necessity. Rg
that mechanistic models of syntactic and semantic composition Of course contemporary models have made much progress in iat
are not only possible (i.e. that formal and computational tools terms of the tasks they can perform, predict or statistically 3
exist that allow us to articulate and test such models), but also approximate: this is true in AI, as well as in psychology and
necessary for further advancement. First, new data analytic neuroscience. But we should emphasize that the question s
techniques have been used in human neuroscience, such as remains as to what, if anything, these models explain, and S
machine learning approaches to decoding the representational how they achieve their explanatory force, if any, without mech-
structure and contents of brain states. We are now able to probe anism. (Deep) neural networks are a glaring example: as the
neural compositionality, that is, whether the cortical represen- complexity of the task to be accomplished (or problem to
tations of complex symbols are encoded as functions of the be solved) increases, so do the network’s structure, size and