in a manner that maintains their structure and their indepen- (ii) fuzzy penguin. Hummel and colleagues [3,10] have
dence (e.g., [3,10]). Several mechanisms for instantiating shown mathematically that TPs violate role—filler indepen-
binding in a neural system have been proposed. One of the dence. In short, because TPs rely on a multiplicative
most popular involves using tensor products (TPs) to bind operation, the binding of two items is an interactive rather
elements ([23-26]; but see [3,27]). than independence-maintaining, or additive, operation. We
In the following, we present simulations and data from provide details of simulations demonstrating this point in
two behavioural experiments that suggest that conjunctive electronic supplementary material, appendix A, but in
and multiplicative operators, such as the TP, lead to system short, once the roles and fillers are bound into a TP, the
behaviour that is at odds with human behaviour. We show similarity of a word or concept to itself (e.g., fuzzy( penguin)
that TPs, and other conjunctive coding schemes, violate the versus fuzzy(cactus)) changes as a function of the similarity
independence of a variable and its value for binding rep- of the other words or concepts it is bound to. So, a fuzzy
resentations together [3,28], an operation that is crucial for penguin and a fuzzy cactus will not be similar unless pen-
meaning composition and cognition more broadly [1,2,5,29- guins and cactus are also similar. In fact, in the limit, the
32]. We demonstrate how this violation occurs, and discuss similarity between fuzzy(x) and fuzzy(y) approaches zero as
why variable-value independence is important for theories the similarities of x and y approach zero.
and models of human cognition, including for natural Essentially by composing fuzzy with penguin or cactus
language [3,27], and for any system to have compositionality. using TPs, information about being in the set of fuzzy

We describe an existing compositional solution implemented things is being shared across fuzzy cactus and fuzzy penguin.


dynamic binding

fuzzy prickly
penguin cactus