order. This posits a challenge for traditional views on meaning object (86% correct). In contrast, children aged 3;6 in their
composition, but is compatible with an alternative view study interpreted all sentence types based on word order (all
according to which meaning composition requires speakers at least 95% correct). These findings suggest that English-
and listeners to coordinate their choices. learning children show an adult preference for word order

over animacy in comprehension from age 3 (cf. [10]).
Interpreting the animate noun phrase as the subject is

2. Children’s acq uisition of com positional consistent with the observation that, cross-linguistically, sub-
. jects tend to be animate whereas objects tend to be inanimate
meaning [11]. In some languages, such as the Papuan language Fore,
An important aspect of the acquisition of sentence meaning is interpreting the animate noun phrase rather than the first
the acquisition of argument structure, that is, the ability to noun phrase as the subject would in fact be the grammatical
determine who is doing what to whom. In transitive sentences choice for adults [12]. These observations suggest that ani-
in English, argument structure is expressed by word order: the macy is not merely a cognitive heuristic or bias that is used
first noun phrase in the sentence is the subject and the second when syntactic information is unavailable, but rather must
noun phrase is the direct object. Several studies have shown be treated on a par with word order and other syntactic cues.
that English-learning children between the ages of 1 and 2 are A widely accepted view in language acquisition research is
already sensitive to the word order of English when interpret- that correct comprehension of words and grammatical struc-
ing transitive sentences (e.g. [4-6]). For example, Hirsh-Pasek tures precedes their correct production. Some have even called
& Golinkoff [6] carried out an intermodal preferential looking this a logical necessity: ‘Logically, comprehension must precede
task with English-learning children from seventeen to nineteen production. How else can speakers know which words to use to
months, in which two videos were presented simultaneously convey a particular meaning?’ [13, p. 246]. The idea is that
while a sentence was played. The study used simple transitive children first learn to comprehend a particular form, and only
sentences such as Big Bird is tickling Cookie Monster. Because later learn to use this form correctly. Children’s acquisition of