what the explanatory target would have been like had cir- direction of explanation is transformed from a metaphysical
cumstances been different. To do this, we require reliable problem where we face the challenge of how we can deter-
dependence information throughout (from types 1 to 3). mine whether the appropriate relation holds, to an

For example, consider again the case of modelling a par- epistemic one. When there is a dispute over the direction of © =
ticular type of pendulum by using a simple pendulum explanation (if any) for a particular case, we do not immedi- = >
model. Let us say that the explanatory target is the period ately need to settle metaphysical questions over which — _
of the pendulum. Here, the simple pendulum model can be relation holds.° Of course, this is not to say that it is always =
explanatory. The model itself details the dependence of the easy to determine the direction of explanation (if any), but = 5!
period on, for example, the length of the pendulum rod. In the type of questions that we have to answer are theoretically = >
addition, the explanatory target, the period of the pendulum, and, sometimes, directly empirically tractable. =
is sensitive to violations of the conditions that make the Second, it allows for a unified treatment of causal and non- 3
model apt. For example, in general, had the friction at the causal explanations of physical facts. This is important when =
pivot not been negligible then the period of the pendulum we are dealing with explanations from connected models that — >!
would have been different, etc. The same does not hold for cross the causal/non-causal divide, and particularly so in N
the intuitively predictive but non-explanatory application of cases where a multiscale model covers scales that are typically
the simple pendulum model to calculate the length of the pen- treated very differently. For example, Pedersen ef al. [12] sum- =
dulum rod. Within the simple pendulum model, the length can marize such challenges in modelling an avian compass as
be expressed as a function of the period and the acceleration a distinctively quantum process. The proposed model of
due to gravity. This is what allows the model to be predictively avian navigation is radically multiscale because it involves
successful in calculating the length of the pendulum rod when both distinctively quantum notions such as entanglement
the conditions for the model to be apt are fulfilled. However, and distinctively higher scale notions such as bird behaviour.
the length of the pendulum rod is not sensitive to whether or Shrapnel [13, pp. 409-410] articulates the difficulty of
not the conditions of aptness for the model are fulfilled. recovering the directionality of explanation in these cases.
For example, we do not have reason to think that had the fric- Many philosophers believe that scientific explanations display an