assumption here that the bridges are such that they can be article by noting that ‘[a]lthough small-world architecture
crossed, etc. If they are not then the graph theoretic treatment has not received much attention, we suggest that it will prob-
of the actual bridge system again fails to be apt for the ques- ably turn out to be widespread in biological, social and man-
tion at hand. To avoid any conditions of application we could made systems ...’. Of course, such ways of talking do not in
try to abstract even further and define the explanandum of and of themselves commit authors to any specific view about
interest to be whether a system with the layout of Kénigs- the relationship between the explanatory model and the
berg’s bridge system could be traversed in the suggested explanatory target.'* However, if we take the above ways of
way setting aside any actual physical obstacles to undertake talking at face value then it is tempting to take the explana-
such a tour. However, this type of explanandum is best tory target system to simply instantiate the relevant
understood as a question directly about what explains the network (or topological) properties. For example, I take this
non-traversability (in a mathematical sense) of the graph typi- view to be the one expressed by, for example, Huneman
cally associated with Kénigsberg’s bridge system rather than [27, p. 119] when writing that ’... in topological explanations,
a question about the possibility of making a certain journey the topological facts are explanatory, and not the various
across the physical K6nigsberg. processes that in nature instantiate variously these properties’.
Here, I have been focusing on explanations of physical facts In combination with a dependence view of explanation
and strictly speaking intra-mathematical explanations (where the consequence of such a view is that we should expect to
both the explanans and the explanandum are mathematical) find all the relevant explanatory counterfactuals simply by
fall beyond the scope of what I have tried to address. There paying attention to dependence of type 2 (the dependencies
are good reasons to treat them differently. To have a potential internal to the model) because the explanatory target systems
intra-mathematical explanation, we would expect to look at simply instantiate the relevant network (or topological) prop-
the details of the proofs for the two directions and whether erties. I have suggested that we need to pay attention to what
they are explanatory or not. This will be a completely different makes it apt to apply the relevant models in order to under-
explanation from the explanatory model that merely makes use stand the directionality of the explanations of physical facts
of graph theory that we have discussed so far. However, it will given using these models. This means that I think that we
bring out further assumptions that were previously hidden by have reason to resist taking the explanatory target systems