the impossibility to do the suggested round tour. However, the of Kénigsberg, are such that they are possible to cross at will,
impossibility to do the suggested round tour also allows us to etc. If such conditions hold and the graph-theoretic model is
infer the existence of a vertex with an odd valance (given that appropriate to use, then we can support the inference both
the graph is connected). However, it does not seem to explain from the existence of a vertex with an odd valance to the
the existence of such a vertex. If we want to accommodate non-tourability of the bridge system and vice versa. However,
this difference in explanatory directionality in a non-causal only the round-tourability of the bridge system depends on the
way, we need to locate a difference that is not visible as a differ- conditions of application. The tourability of the bridge system
ence in implication when the model's conditions of application is, in general, sensitive to whether or not these conditions hold.
are fulfilled. Whether it is possible to make the described round tour

Some aspects relevant to explanatory directionality can be depends on whether the bridges are the only permitted way
recovered from within the model itself and so hold whether of travelling between the different parts of K6nigsberg,
or not the model has a physical fact as the explanatory whether they can be traversed, etc. However, the valance of
target. For example, while the graph determines the valence the vertices is not sensitive to these conditions of application.
of the vertices, the valence of the vertices do not (in general) The valences of the vertices in the graph-theoretic represen-
determine the graph. This contributes to the directionality tation of the bridge system are the same whether or not we
mentioned in Jansson & Saatsi [11]; merely fixing that the could also travel between two parts of town via boat or
bridge system in question cannot be toured in the suggested whether a bridge was blocked. The valences of the vertices is
way does not fix the bridge system to any particular confi- determined by the graph. Although we can appropriately
guration but fixing the bridge system to a_ particular make inferences in both directions when the conditions of
configuration does determine its round-tourability. application hold (from the non-tourability of Kénigsberg to the

However, this is not enough for a full solution to the direc- existence of at least one vertex with an odd valance and vice
tionality of explanation in this case. The issue facing us now is versa), the target is only sensitive to the conditions of application
that the non-tourability (in the suggested way) of the bridge in one direction. Granting that we take explanation to differ from