framework for understanding both the effervescence of in charge through a wire. Perspectival models used by physicists to Ss
contemporary network theoretic research in the biomedical search for supersymmetric particles have hypothetical targets and = =
domain and the sobering methodological cautions raised by obi function is to establish what might exist, or objective S
practicing scientists. °For relevant reviews of current methods used for module detection 3
Data accessibility. This article has no additional data. and modularity MEASUTES, SEC [27-29]. i
. In network neuroscience, functional networks are constructed from s
Competing interests. I declare I have no competing interests. estimates of statistical dependencies between neuronal and regional a
funding. I received no funding for this study. time series data, and functional connectivity is typically measured a
using Pearson’s cross-correlations of haemodynamic or electro- -
physiological time courses [31]. >
En d notes ’Signed correlation matrices represent both positive and negative cor- =
relation coefficients between variables. While some network =
'The notion of ‘depth’ in this context reflects the fact that mathemat- approaches disregard negative correlations altogether, some rec- 5
ical methods may be used in bioscientific research to investigate ommend introducing new indices for generalizing already existing =o
whether some formally defined property (e.g. functional robustness formulas for computing network measures like the clustering coeffi- XS
or modularity) occurs in different kinds of biological systems or cient [31,32]. As
how such a property is related to other systemic properties. The 5A multislice network represents a system as a series of slices in 3
notion is akin to Kosti¢’s [14] idea of ‘explanatory depth’ insofar as which each slice stands for a separate observation of the network. 3
it can be understood in terms of the richness of counterfactual Multislice approaches can detect variations of modular organization NS
relations that an investigation supports. across sets of data or time points [31]. Ss
According to Franklin-Hall’s account, in investigating a target °Gelfert [33, p. 25] conceives of a mathematical formalism as ‘a com- 3
system S, a theory T; counts as a background theory if it represents bination of a mathematical framework (operator algebra) with a a
a series of features of S, which the system has in virtue of being fundamental physical theory (quantum mechanics), in conjunction
part of a larger class of systems. By contrast, a theory T) counts as with additional assumptions and heuristic rules that are neither
a local theory if it represents something more specific about the com- entailed by fundamental theory nor tailored to any empirical pro-