replicated three times, where in (b), the peripheral nodes of each replica are connected to the central node of the original module. This step is iterated one more
time in (c), but can be repeated indefinitely.

to known chemical groups, they were viewed as picking out the gradual and hierarchical character of modularity. In other
modules that correspond to biochemical functions. Using this words, this exploratory model generated a set of novel research
same colouring scheme, the researchers represented the questions: are some metabolic networks more modular than
substrates in a three-dimensional network model, focusing others? Does the modularity of a system depend on its size?
in more detail on a specific module (involved in pyrimidine What role does environmental variability play in determining
metabolism) and linked each submodule to particular the degree of modularity of a system? Are processes like hori-
pathways in the module. zontal gene transfer relevant for the nested character of the
Overall, this exploratory model showed that the two modularity observed in metabolic systems? [31].

features of metabolic networks are not incompatible. In fact, Finally, while network models by themselves may not be
they point to a hierarchical modular organization of metabolic able to establish how the modular structure of bacterial meta-
systems. The study also showed that modules closely bolic networks is linked to environmental variability and
corresponding to traditionally characterized biochemical path- horizontal gene transfer, they have the potential of providing
ways or mechanisms can be recovered from large-scale again important proofs of principle that such links exist. This
networks. Moreover, because the fit between the modules can then trigger the search for how-possible explanations of
and previously established metabolic pathways is significantly how this link came to be established evolutionarily.

close, Ravasz et al. emphasized that the boundary of modules is
sometimes at variance with standard boundaries in
biochemical pathway models, suggesting that ‘further exper-

imental and theoretical analyses will be needed to 5. Conclusion