non-traversability (in a mathematical sense) of the graph typi- view to be the one expressed by, for example, Huneman
cally associated with Kénigsberg’s bridge system rather than [27, p. 119] when writing that ’... in topological explanations,
a question about the possibility of making a certain journey the topological facts are explanatory, and not the various
across the physical K6nigsberg. processes that in nature instantiate variously these properties’.
Here, I have been focusing on explanations of physical facts In combination with a dependence view of explanation
and strictly speaking intra-mathematical explanations (where the consequence of such a view is that we should expect to
both the explanans and the explanandum are mathematical) find all the relevant explanatory counterfactuals simply by
fall beyond the scope of what I have tried to address. There paying attention to dependence of type 2 (the dependencies
are good reasons to treat them differently. To have a potential internal to the model) because the explanatory target systems
intra-mathematical explanation, we would expect to look at simply instantiate the relevant network (or topological) prop-
the details of the proofs for the two directions and whether erties. I have suggested that we need to pay attention to what
they are explanatory or not. This will be a completely different makes it apt to apply the relevant models in order to under-
explanation from the explanatory model that merely makes use stand the directionality of the explanations of physical facts
of graph theory that we have discussed so far. However, it will given using these models. This means that I think that we
bring out further assumptions that were previously hidden by have reason to resist taking the explanatory target systems
our focus on a specific bridge system. In particular, the proofs to simply instantiate the relevant network properties.
hold under the assumptions that we are dealing with con- To see what this looks like in practice, let us consider an
nected systems (the graph associated with Ko6nigsberg’s example from Watts and Strogatz [3].'° Watts & Strogatz [3]

bridge system is connected). Whether a graph has an Eulerian start with a regular ring lattice with a fixed number of vertices


and a fixed number of edges per vertex. This ring lattice is infected individuals are removed after one unit of time (by | 6 |

then rewired with a probability p (so that p=0 leaves the death or immunity). Are properties of network structure, say