tory experiments can be informed by theories. Although they iments. Ditto for models. Sometimes confirmatory experiments
do not aim to evaluate theories, exploratory experiments are are not in the books for a long time and scientific inference is
said to be ‘guided’ or ‘directed’ by theories. To make the driven primarily by the results of exploratory experimentation
analysis of exploratory experiments more precise, Franklin- and modelling. And, other times, the boundaries are more
Hall [21] has introduced the distinction between background blurry. Again, the contextualist proviso is key here. Characteriz-

and local theories:? exploratory experimentation is not ing what is distinctive about the exploratory mode of research


requires a detailed analysis of the research context, the role of molecular, and developmental biology, neuroscience and cog-

background and local theories, of the methods and techniques nitive science. The concept has been applied to capture the
used, as well as of the specific aims pursued by the scientists fact that across many different scales, biological systems can
engaged in a specific type of investigation. The contrast with be divided into smaller systems or components, with limited
the hypothesis-testing, theory-evaluation mode of doing research or controlled interactions between them. So, while these bio-
is not intended to deny its importance, but to provide a more logical components are themselves sets of internally strongly
well-rounded picture of scientific practice. interacting parts, they are relatively autonomous with respect
With this general characterization of exploratory research in to each other. Different types of elements (nucleotides,
place, I turn next to showing that exploration is an important proteins, morphological characters, etc.) can constitute a
mode of investigation in network approaches to biological module, and different types of connections and links (physi-
phenomena. In particular, I make the case that the contributions cal, dynamical or statistical) can be taken to determine the
of some network models to the investigation of biological mod- unity of a module. For instance, developmental modules = =
ularity are to be understood in terms of the exploratory are typically considered to be either different parts of the =
functions that these models perform. To clarify the scope of embryo that interact with each other (in induction or mor-
my thesis, I should stress that I do not take the exploratory func- phogenesis) or as sets of interacting molecules that act =