those genes whose interaction profile exceeded the threshold hypothesis that they worked together in modifying specific | 6 |

of 0.2. If one visualized the resulting network prior to further tRNAs. The fact that nodes in the elongator complex and in
analysis, it would represent a giant hairball. the urmylation pathway exhibited similar edges to the three
As a first step towards interpreting the network, Costanzo clusters constituting the cell polarity and morphogenesis sub-
et al. assigned colour to nodes based upon annotations from network suggest they play roles in establishing polarity in
GO's biological processes ontology. The second step was to yeast cells. The researchers even advanced a hypotheses
employ an edge-weighted, spring-embedded layout algor- extending this finding beyond yeast: from the finding that sev-
ithm to situate nodes involved in the same biological eral of the genes in the elongator complex and the urmylation
process near each other. The third step was actually to demar- pathway regulate a specific set of cellular proteins, the
cate clusters. While the colouring suggests clusters to the researchers suggest that the human orthologue of ELP1,
human viewer, the researchers deployed the Markov cluster- IBKBAP, plays such a role in translation of specific genes,
ing algorithm and GINECA, a tool the researchers developed thereby offering an explanation of the fact that it is mutated =
for identifying partially overlapping clusters, to draw bound- in patients suffering the neurological disorder familial =
aries. These clusters are hierarchical related to individual dysautonomia. =
genes. The layout procedure also identified a yet higher This research by Costanzo et al. provides anexampleofhow, — =:
level in the hierarchy: clusters involved in related biological starting from a flat network, researchers can identify a hierarch- 5!
processes are located near each other. For example, the clus- ical structure involving multiple levels of organization by = =
ters whose nodes are annotated for cell polarity and applying a layout procedure and drawing upon the resources =
morphogenesis, mitosis and chromosome segregation, and of hierarchical representations of biological knowledge such = &
DNA replication and repair are located near each other, as provided by GO. Nodes that cluster in the network and are =
which the researchers interpret as owing to ‘the role of the annotated with the same biological process can be viewed as >!
microtubule cytoskeleton in bridging nuclear chromosomal- parts of mechanisms involved in those processes. This facilitates N
and actin cytoskeleton-based functions’. not only interpretation of networks but enables researchers to s
A plausible interpretation of the coloured clusters in figure 2 use the network to glean new hypotheses about mechanisms. s