
Figure 1. Intermolecular base-pairing via partially complementary SINEs can a 3'UTR SINE. That only 24 of 3'UTR SINE-containing ortholo-
create Staufen (STAU)-binding sites that trigger STAU-mediated mRNA decay gous transcripts were found to be SMD targets, asevidenced by __
SMD). (a) Base-pairing between the 3’UTR SINE of a translationally active their upregulation upon STAU1 depletion and, independently, — =:
mRNA and a partially complementary SINE of another translationally inactive UPF1 depletion, is assuredly an underestimate owing to the = 5!
NA (either a IncRNA or a translationally inactive mRNA) can trigger the SMD stringency of the analyses and also to detection limitations =
of the translationally active mRNA. (b) Base-pairing between the 3/UTR SINEs [22]. Because the convergent evolution of at least one human- =
of two translationally active mRNAs can trigger the SMD of both mRNAs. mouse gene pair could be extended to the African green = 8
Online version in colour.) monkey, evidence exists that 3'UTR Alu acquisition preceded =
. . . the divergence of their last shared common ancestor approxi- >!
(figure 1b), then both will be targeted for SMD [18]. In this mately 28 Ma. Additional studies, including those comparing ~
regard, it should be noted that many transcripts that have other cell-types, are predicted to further exemplify what 3
been computationally defined as IncRNAs are in fact exported oe S
appears to be the convergence of post-transcriptional gene
to the cytoplasm where they are translated [20]. &

regulatory pathways between distinct species via 3‘UTR SINE
insertions. It should be noted, however, that because the
SINE insertions in the 24 orthologous primate and mouse
gene pairs are random in 3'UTR location and likely to have
been acquired at different evolutionary times, rather than
exemplifying convergence, some insertions may be adaptive,
contributing to species-specific regulation, or may drive a com-
pensatory change in gene expression that sets the 3‘UTR back
towards the ‘default’ mode of regulation.