for three out of the four alternative splice event types; for intron observation that a few cancer-associated genes have extre-
retention, the non-TE-derived isoforms are more common. mely high counts of TE-derived alternative splicing events.
Finally, it is interesting to note that there is no particular enrich- The kallikrein-related peptidase 2 encoding gene KLK2
ment for the contributions of any given TE class to any of the shows more than twice as many TE-derived alternative
four kinds of alternative splice site events. The observed num- splice sites compared to the second rank gene on this list
bers of TEs from each class that contribute to these events are (figure 4a). There are a total of 297 TE-derived isoforms ident-
very similar to the expected numbers based on their back- ified for this gene compared to 354 non-TE-derived isoforms.
ground frequencies within cancer-associated genes (figure 2c). The KLK2 protein is primarily expressed in the prostate and

has been shown to promote prostate cancer cell growth [50].
The connection between TE-derived alternative splicing and

(b) Differential expression of transposable element cancer is supported by the fact that all of the TE-derived

derived splice sites isoforms observed here were identified in prostate adenocar-
We analysed differences in the expression levels of alternative cinoma samples. Examples of TE-derived isoforms for KLK2
splice sites between matched normal-tumour sample pairs in are shown in figure 4b,c; these alternative splice events are
an effort to evaluate the effects of individual TE-derived predicted to induce frameshifts that would lead to truncated
splice sites on cancer. The expression levels of individual altera- protein sequences. Alternative splicing of KLK2 results in
tive splice sites, and their corresponding isoforms, were fusions with the ETV1 and ETV4 genes in prostate cancer,
quantified via normalized counts of mapped RNA-seq reads and all of the known fusion transcripts for these genes are
as detailed in the Methods section. For any given TE-derived missing exon 3 of KLK2 [51,52]. Interestingly, exon skipping
splice site, there are four possible expression counts for an indi- events are by far the most abundant TE-derived splice iso-
vidual patient: (i) non-TE isoform normal, (ii) TE isoform forms seen for this gene (figure 4). The large number of
normal, (iii) non-TE isoform tumour and (iv) TE isoform putative TE-derived alternative splicing events in KLK2,