this case, the population evolves uphill on the landscape— 5
following the fitness gradient—as would be predicted by Here, we note an important difference between =
quantitative genetics models. (1 use heritability in the computational and mathematical biology. For purely =
example, instead of additive genetic variance, because it is computational problems, the numerical value assigned toa =~
easier to intuitively evaluate. Because the phenotypic var- nucleotide is just a name, which could be interpreted in var- =
iance is held constant, there is a linear relationship between ious different ways by an algorithm. By contrast, if we want 5
heritability and additive genetic variance in these examples.) to do analytical theory, then our representations of nucleo *
Things change when the heritabilities are different in the tides must obey the rules of mathematics, and applying =
two environments. Figure 4c shows the case in which the her- these rules must yield the correct biological result. Applying =
itability in environment 0 is 0.2, while that in environment 1 simple arithmetic to the numerical values given in (4.1) ©
is 0.4 (the fitness function is still that shown in 4a). In this quickly shows that they do not pass this test. a
case, the population does not follow the fitness gradient, For example: we often need to calculate the mean valueof =
and in fact may be pulled across a fitness valley. In figure a phenotype, but under the scheme given in (4.1) the meanof = S
4d, the difference in heritability is greater; 0.1 in environment an A and a G is a C (since the mean, in binary, of 00 and 10 is a
0 and 0.5 in environment 1. Here, the population evolves 01), and the sum of a C anda G isaT.
towards [¢,=1, ¢,=1] from every starting point in this
region, even though the fitness landscape is still the same. (A, G)= cf (4.2)
All of these heritability values, including the most extreme and C+G=T.
ones (0.1 and 0.5) are well within the range commonly seen These results are clearly biologically (and chemically) mean-
in natural populations [19,21]. ingless; the sum of two nucleotides is not a different
This example illustrates one way in which heritability can nucleotide.
evolve—as individuals end up preferring environments in The way around this is to represent monomers as vectors
which heritability is relatively high. Note that there is no that are orthogonal to one another. For simplicity, we will
direct selection on heritability in this case. Rather, the trait consider a DNA sequence; so the vectors are four dimen-
¢; tends to adapt to the environment with higher heritability. sional. The approach can be modified for use with amino