
average parent in class x, for all combinations of classes x and but very revealing, situation. Suppose that there is a cycle of

y: the most familiar example is the Leslie matrix [35] for projection matrices, which repeats every 5 years: how does
age-structured populations, where the non-zero terms are the smearing operate then? Rather like multi-period cycles
survivorships and fertilities. In this section, we consider in simple population models, the population approaches a
varying that assumption, but also adding environmental sto- fixed cycle of class distributions that repeats every 5
chasticity and density dependence. The now-standard years—the initial condition will determine which of the 5
mathematical results (e.g. [36]) for the constant projection years it gets into phase with. This leads after a while to a rep-
matrix make the equilibrial class distribution the leading etition of the same five class distributions, which makes
right eigenvector of the projection matrix, and the reproduc- perfect biological sense. There is also a cycle of reproductive
tive values its leading left eigenvector. So, a constant values that repeats every 5 years, which is not so obvious, but
projection matrix allows these important quantities to be cal- true. The exciting fact is that in any 1 year, we take that year’s
culated straight away. Now, however, we consider the much reproductive values as our basic reproductive values, we cal- = =
more plausible situation of non-constant projection matrices. culate the Williams’ reproductive values using the following >
The first objection to constant projection matrices is the year’s reproductive values, and calculate fitness as the ratioof
implication that there is no density dependence. As the popu- one to the other. This fitness has all the properties discussed = =:
lation grows, surely birth rates should decrease and death earlier, making the fundamental theorem and Price equations =
rates should increase? Thus, the population class distribution work, along with all the sequelae of Queller [1], and so char- >
may affect the projection matrix. The second objection is that acterizing natural selection for us in just the same way =
the world is full of variation, and we should really allow as under the simple standard assumption of a constant 8
random variability in the projection matrix, with possible projection matrix. =
correlations across years. This artificial cyclic example suggests that in more com- >
Sometimes we do not even want to work with the projec- plicated cases, we would similarly have reproductive values N
tion matrix at all. As already mentioned, Fisher began his sex defined in each year. In cases of random environments, the s