an empirical example. But it is important that in principle assumptions about that generalized environment that we = =
our structure of reproductive value and fitness, and Queller’s can ask whether natural selection is improving or not. In spe- =
main evolutionary equations, survive intact under plausible cifying the environment, we take a necessary step in &
biological assumptions. It is also likely that the empirical understanding an organism’s fit to it. This assumption, =
complications would lead us into biologically significant rather than the reality of an infinitely distant generation, is >
investigations that really would be important for how natural enough to provide reproductive values. The question of N
selection was operating, rather than lead us into pointless how long the long term has to be can be asked about any s
complications. This viewpoint, in other words, is more study of natural selection, and the nature of random environ- a
likely to help us out of a mess we did not realize we were ments could make that a little longer, but does not change the
already in, than to create new and unnecessary problems. underlying logic.

There are technical limitations to the Crewe et al. [3] This section shows that fitnesses and reproductive values
paper, which they discuss, along with comparisons of this are not brute facts about the world. Rather, they depend on
result with the uses of reproductive value by Tuljapurkar assumptions that we make about the population and how it
[37] and Rousset & Ronce [9] and Rousset [8], and see also interacts now and will interact in the future. These are work-
the discussion by Lion [7]. They also correct previous work ing assumptions, made because we have to, but also because
that used Williams’ reproductive value as fitness. It is likely the operation of natural selection depends on and is a
the limitations can be relaxed. The possible non-existence of response to the whole generalized environment. Rather
reproductive values arises because mathematical theorems than hide these assumptions by pretending fitnesses are
proving existence require simple situations so they can be brute facts, it is more useful to acknowledge the role of the
absolutely sure. Once the matrices depend on the population working assumptions, which would even allow us to use
state, this goes beyond the scope of the ergodic theorems I am and contrast different sets of working assumptions.
aware of. However, the general power of flattening of matrix
products towards a rank of 1 suggests that biologists can (c) Total population reproductive value
