
One under-appreciated issue in the derivation of (2.1) in this sense, and biased transmission are the only factors that
concerns the value of 6; for an individual that leaves no success- affect Az. Our question is: can we legitimately regard (2.1) as
ful gametes, i.e. with fitness w;=0. Price [1] stipulated that if partitioning the total change AZ into components attributable
w; = 0 then 6;= 0, but this is of course a convention. Other con- to natural selection and biased transmission, respectively, as
ventions are also possible. For example, we could stipulate that many authors believe?

if w;=0 then 8 = 6, ie. an individual with no offspring is
assigned the average transmission bias in the population. A

third possibility is to define 6; as the transmission bias the indi- (c) Isolating the difference made by natural selection
vidual would have had if it had left offspring—a quantity that is One reason for doubting that equation (2.1) achieves this is the
of course not directly observable (though 3 may be a good fact that the variable w; appears in both r.h.s. terms (as noted in
proxy for it). Let us call these conventions A, B and C, respect- [7-9]). That is, the fitness differences in the population affect the
ively. Note that the simple Price equation holds true whichever ‘Exp’ term as well as the ‘Cov’ term, so intuitively the latter
convention we adopt, since 6; is multiplied by w; in equation term does not seem to isolate the effect of natural selection
(2.1). This explains why the issue is rarely discussed; however, on Az.

for certain purposes it is important. This worry can be fleshed out as follows. Intuitively, natural

selection (i.e. differential reproduction) and biased trans-
mission (i.e. mutation, gametic selection and random drift)
(b) Causal interpretation: two issues represent distinct causal factors, both capable of affecting the
What then of the idea that the two r.h.s. terms of equation (2.1) total evolutionary change. If this is right, then presumably it
correspond to natural selection and transmission bias, should be possible, in principle, to alter the strength of natural