population distribution of cultural practices or representations from the foundational metaphor, since a thin description— >
seem most likely to come from cognitive science: understand- they just replicate, plus a bit of mutation—works pretty well =
ing in detail what kinds of cognitive representations people for the genetic case. With a different, more realistic foundational = &
hold, what capacities and priors allow them to do this and metaphor, perhaps we would move more quickly towards the- =
how social experience updates these representations. Such ories that attribute the individual humans with more of the 5!
understanding could build out from the properties of the indi- thickness and complexity required for adequate accounts of N
vidual knower to the trait distributions arising in interacting human behaviour. s
networks of individuals (see [44] for a promissory example). Others have made these points before, and yet the hold of a
No isomorphism to Darwinian evolution is required in order the genes-culture analogy persists. Perhaps this is just because
to do this (see also [45]). it is simpler and more transmissible than the alternatives.
Perhaps it does not matter whether we adopt the genes— Darwin’s theory of genetic evolution is a very successful
culture analogy or not. One researcher starts from the theory, and people at least think they understand it (though
genes—culture analogy and progressively builds the differences in fact they often do not [47,48]). Critiques of its application
between genes and culture into her models. Another starts to culture can seem tantamount to saying ‘it’s all very complex
from cognitive science with no Darwinian assumptions, and and what happens depends on the details’. Hence, they are
builds up to populational phenomena. They may converge relatively unattractive. But the case underlying them seems
on the same insights. However, foundational metaphors are strong: explaining culture involves all the problems of cogni-
important for a number of reasons. First, they are pedagogi- tion (how do minds come to know and do the things they
cally influential. When we explain our theories, we start with know and do?) shackled to social science’s long-standing
‘culture is like genes’, and then add the nuances. People micro-macro problem (how do the properties of indivi-
forget or fail to hear the nuances; they only remember the fram- duals affect those of their social groups, and vice versa?). This
ing, which they then either contest or apply too literally. Thus, endeavour is not precisely analogous to any other.

theories of culture whose first move is the analogy with
genes may be condemned forever to spend most of their time