Lik Zk Z w <—— ¢ ——> 7
Figure 1. Causal dependence of individual fitness on individual genetic value Figure 2. A simple causal graph over the three variables appearing in the
alone (i); and on both individual and group genetic value (ii). Price equation, adopted with modification from Frank [7].

group’s genetic value Z;. In such a situation, it seems clear that sufficient for group selection, then we must conclude that = &

z evolves by individual-level selection alone, i.e. because some equation (3.2) does not, in fact, isolate the component of 2

>
individuals are fitter than others. But unless all groups happen evolutionary change due to group selection. ~
to have exactly the same gene frequency, the term Cov(Wj, Z,) =
will be non-zero. Simply put, group fitness W; correlates with ="
genetic value Z;, but this is simply a side-effect of the fact 4. Causal models a
that some groups contain a higher proportion of the fitter Our discussion thus far has revealed the difficulty of taking the =
individuals than others. components of the Price equation to correspond to distinct &
Another way to see this point is in terms of G. C. Williams’s causal processes in evolution. The difficulty arises for both =
distinction between genuine group adaptation and ‘fortuitous the single- and multi-level versions of the Price equation, and = >!
group benefit’ [19]. The former refers to a trait that evolved whether selection is understood as ‘selection for’ (where z N
because it is group-advantageous, the latter to a trait that, causally influences w) or ‘selection of’ (where z and w are stat- s
although group-advantageous, did not evolve for that istically associated, irrespective of whether z is a cause of w). &
reason but rather because it benefits individuals who In each case, we saw that the ‘Cov’ and ‘Exp’ terms of the
happen to live in groups. Thus, for example, if faster deer Price equation admit of a causal interpretation only under
have a selective advantage over slower deer, then a conse- specific conditions.
quence of this is that a herd of fast deer will do better than a In this section, we change gear and explore the opposite
herd of slow deer, but this is a fortuitous group benefit, not approach. Instead of starting with the Price equation and