would obtain under specific boundary conditions, given the

ch ange model’s assumptions. Hence to the extent that those assump- =
The moral drawn above invites a philosophical reflection. tions approximate reality, it allows us to make inferences 5!
Why does the Price equation, taken alone, not admit of a about unobserved or unobservable evolutionary changes = &
causal interpretation, appearances to the contrary notwith- under future or hypothetical conditions. =
standing? The basic reason is that the Price equation is a The key to such inductive inferences is the assumption of | &
descriptive principle, in contrast to the explanatory or predic- invariance. As discussed above, explaining an evolutionary =
tive models used in population genetics [25,26]. The r.h.s. change in terms of a particular factor such as selection or trans- — >!
of the Price equation always correctly records an actual mission requires a stable structure to support counterfactual N
change in the gene frequency of a population, but one reasoning. Moreover, predicting the future based on past obser- s
cannot calculate it before observing the l.h.s.. This reflects vations presupposes a certain kind of ‘uniformity of nature’ &
the fact that the Price equation is a mathematical identity, [27]. In the present context, this amounts to assuming that
so that its r.h.s. is a redescription of the I.h.s.. Since algebraic the causal structure that generates an evolutionary response
transformations add no new information, the resulting iden- does not itself change over time, despite the change in the fre-
tity contains nothing that one could not know from the quency of genes and/or phenotypic variables. Clearly, such an
original data. Reading out more, therefore, requires making assumption cannot be justified a priori or by past observations
an empirical assumption that is external to the equation itself. alone, but must be posited as an empirical hypothesis. This is

At first sight, ascribing the total evolutionary change to the reason we needed to introduce a causal model in order to
selection and transmission bias does not seem to go beyond evaluate counterfactual claims, and to derive the equational
descriptive book-keeping, for it looks like sorting out the form (4.1) which is capable of making predictions.
cash in your purse into coins and notes. In reality, however, What the above discussion suggests is that it is impossible,
it is more like asking how much of your money comes in principle, to read off causal implications from the Price
from where, because selection and transmission bias are equation itself, unless causal assumptions are made (at least