Zx) may be indicative of a causal process of selection at the done in [7,8,20]). This approach expresses causal relationships
group level, but it may equally be a side-effect, or by-product, with a directed causal graph and draws on the general relation-
of individual-level selection. ship between causality and probability [15,21]. In the present
The general moral here is that we must be wary of reading context, we are interested in the causal relationships among
causal meaning into bare statistical formulae. This danger is the three variables appearing in the Price equation (2.3),
particularly acute in a multi-level context, where it is easily namely fitness w, genetic value z and the allelic frequency
missed. The partition of AZ in equation (3.2) does not dis- among the successful gametes 2’. In the case of ‘selection for’,
tinguish between two causal models: (i) individual fitness wi, the parent’s genetic value z affects both w (through selection)
is caused by zj alone; and (ii) w;, is caused by both z% and Z, and z’ (through transmission). Letting €,, €, and €,, summarize
(figure 1). The value of Cov(W,, Z;) could be identical in both all other causes of w, z and z’ respectively, we obtain figure 2 as
cases; but in case (i) it is both intuitively inappropriate, and the default causal model [7].
untrue to the history of the concept, to talk about ‘group selec- The causal model explicates the conditions for counter-
tion’. This is the fundamental reason why the multi-level factual reasoning. When we resorted to hypothetical
Price equation (3.2), for all its usefulness as a conceptual tool interventions to separate out the differences made by selection
for thinking about altruism, does not cleanly yield a ‘formal and transmission bias in §2c, we noted that the reasoning
separation of levels of selection’, contrary to what Price and depends on causal assumptions. For example, in eliminating
Hamilton thought. transmission bias by setting 6;=0 for each individual, we
Of course, if we were to content to understand selection in stipulated that this leaves the other variables (apart from z’)
the ‘selection of’ sense, this worry would not arise. That is, if unchanged. Given the causal model in figure 2, such an inter-
we simply take it as true by definition that whenever Cov(W,, vention amounts to setting €, =0 for each individual, and at
Z,) is non-zero, group selection is occurring, then our objection the same time assuming that there is no arrow from 2’ to z or
to the causal interpretation of the multi-level Price equation w. Likewise, that the elimination of selection by setting w = ©
(3.2) could be side-stepped. However, in the context of does not change the other variables is warranted by the absence
multi-level selection, this is an inadvisable move, for it is tan- of an arrow from w to z or z’. Figure 2 satisfies all these require-
tamount to rejecting Williams’s distinction between group ments and thus provides an exemplar causal structure in which