upper left: in vitro collective sheet migration of human intestinal carcinoma evolve either in discrete, regular time steps or in continuous
cells in a single direction (arrow indicates direction of movement) [7], in vitro time. On the one hand, a class of spatially discrete models,
cancer cells moving together in small groups (red, clusters indicated by an the interacting particle systems (IPSs) [18,19], evolve in con-
arrow) invading an extracellular matrix containing fibroblasts (green) (scale tinuous time through exponentially distributed time steps.
bar 100 um) [8], nematic networks of Myxococcus xanthus bacteria on an The resulting asynchronous update of each individual’s
agar surface [9], swarms of Paenibacillus dendritiformis forming nematic position makes it particularly easy to implement migration
streets [10]. tules that obey the principle of volume exclusion. The latter

means that, if a particle wants to move into a lattice site
where another particle is already present, movement is

alignment of cells’ velocities. Thus, bacteria and eukaryotic aborted. Naturally, other kinds of interactions can be
cells (such as cancer cells) are textbook examples of cells inter- implemented with IPSs as well. In fact, IPSs have been
acting through velocity-alignment mechanisms, where every used to investigate the effect of volume exclusion during
individual’s velocity is determined by its neighbours’ vel- CM [20,21].
ocities [11-14]. Various microscopic and macroscopic Another class of spatially discrete models, cellular auto-
mathematical models have been constructed to quantitatively mata, are agent-based models similar to IPSs, which evolve
and qualitatively study the emergence of macroscopic (tissue with discrete time steps of constant length, with either syn-
or colony) behaviour from polar and nematic velocity chronous or asynchronous update [22]. A specific type of
alignment interactions among individuals. cellular automata, termed lattice-gas cellular automata
Macroscopic models, such as_ partial differential (LGCA) [23], explicitly models not only the position of
equations, model the spatio-temporal behaviour of entire individuals, but also their velocity. CM cellular automata
cell populations, and are based on physical laws of continu- models are typically, but not exclusively (e.g. active-spin
ous media, being expressed in differential form. The model [24]), of the lattice-gas type, owing to the advantage
mathematical tools for the analysis of such models are well of explicit velocity consideration [25,26]. Space and (depend-