schools of fishes [25] and swarming prey [20,54-56]. On the follow a similar path starting from different positions. Inter-
opposite side, the search of an aligned movement has been actions within heterogenous systems have been recently
shown to represent an escape advantage for the prey group analysed in several other contexts, i.e. not strictly related to
in the case of the not confused predator. Evasive manoeuvres the animal world, including crowd dynamics, in particular
are instead delayed and impeded by individual preference in the perspective of groups with leaders [2], and cell
towards cohesion. Such model outcomes are in partial dis- migration, e.g. in the case of the coexistence of different cell
agreement with the experimental results obtained by the lineages and phenotypes [57,58].

authors in the previously cited work [40]. Their empirical evi- We here remark that, in principle, the computational
dence in fact shows that the predation risk is reduced in the results presented in the previous parts of the paper
case of prey exhibiting a balance between attraction and depend on the initial condition of the particle system. How-
orientation. A possible explanation of this discrepancy is ever, as it is possible to observe by the error bars in the plots
owing to the fact that in our model the virtual prey individ- of figure 7, the simulation outcomes obtained by keeping
uals react to the presence of the predator thereby giving rise constant the initial density of agents (i.e. the number of ani-
to somehow different dynamics. In [40], it is also observed mals and diameter of the round region where they are
that the predator preferentially attacks small groups of targets initially located) while randomly varying individual pos-
and individuals located at the edge of the prey aggregate, an ition and orientation do not significantly differ in almost

aspect not captured by our approach. all cases.


Keeping fixed its basic structure, our model can be easily Funding. This research was partially supported by the Italian Ministry | 13 |
extended to include a possibly large spectrum of individual of Education, University and Research (MIUR) through the ‘Diparti-
behavioural rules: this would simply amount in adding the menti di Eccellenza’ Programme (2018-2022)-Department of 3
