clusters arrest. (g,h) The absence of the trailing fragment does not affect in figures 8 and 9 highlight how variations in the free
the behaviour of the other clusters, which are still able to aggregate. The model parameters (i.e. the adhesion/repulsion coefficients,
resulting cluster is however unable to move until the previously isolated cen- cell chemical sensitivity and SDFla internalization rates)
tral rosette undergoes partial epithelialization, thereby allowing a productive affect the numerical outcomes in figures 6 and 7, respectively.
pattern of receptors Cxcr7/Cxcr4. (Online version in colour.) In particular, we there report representative final confi-
gurations obtained in the case of decrease/increase of one

of the referred free model parameters.

Consistently with the corresponding experimental results, the Too low adhesive/repulsive coefficients (e.g. a reduction of
two virtual clusters quickly adhere and the normal locomotion one degree of magnitude in both Vrep, Vadh and Vagn) result ina
of the embryonic organ is preserved. stretching of the fragments (or portions of fragments) consti-
Laser ablation is also used to dissect the primordium in tuted by PM and dPM agents, being in fact more free to move
three fragments: a leading cluster and a central isolated imma- according to the detected pattern of FGF10 (dPMs only) and
ture rosette, both expressing Cxcr4, and a trailing aggregate SDFla (both PMs and aPMs). The fragments indeed excessively
characterized instead by Cxcr7, see again [11]. To reproduce elongate along the stripe of SDFla. Moreover, when the mature
such an in vitro configuration, we again let the numerical pri- rosette comprising the dE agent is present (see figures 8a, 8c, 9a
mordium to normally develop until 28 hpf: then, we isolate and 9b), too low interaction coefficients are not able to rebuild a
the second rosette within the main body of the proto-organ unique placode and the mature rosette indeed remains almost
by removing proper groups of individuals in its surroundings, still. In turn, the resulting fragmentation prevents the emergence
see figure 7a. The leading fragment is indeed formed by of a directional locomotion. In the opposite case, too high
progenitor PM individuals and by a newly formed proto- adhesive/repulsive coefficients (e.g. a doubling of both dep,
neuromast, whereas the trailing portion comprises a partially Vadn and Van) significatively affect only the numerical outcomes
epithelialized rosette (i.e. formed by pE agents). Also in this reported in figure 7e,f , see figure 9b. It in fact allows the caudal
case, the deposited rosette is not considered at all. As repro- and central fragments to come close by adhesion and thus con-