mw N ae
d 4 | 1 l 1 1 1 | 1 60
3 2 - 0 1 2 3 -90 0 90
left-right distance (BL) 9,

Figure 3. Force maps of D. rerio swimming in a circular arena of radius 0.29 m. Heading change 8¢ of a focal fish, located at the origin and pointing north in the
four panels, as a function of (a) the distance to its neighbour d; and the angle of perception of its neighbour yj, (b) the distance dj and its relative heading ¢,,
(q the left-right distance qi and @j, and (d) the relative heading @, and the front—back distance qj. The colour scale shown on the right represents the average
value of heading change 5@. Distances are measured in body lengths (BL), angles in degrees.

small. This force map reveals that a fish tends to align with to turn left. However, if the relative heading of the neighbour
its neighbour. In D. rerio, figure 3a shows that the focal fish is turned to the right, alignment alone would induce the focal
turns towards its neighbour when they are close to each fish to turn right. This difficulty comes from the fact that a
other (dj *1-2BL) or when the neighbour is located function (5¢) that depends on three variables (dj, yi; and ¢;)
behind the focal fish (1 yj! >90°, whatever the distance). cannot be represented in 3D. To overcome this limitation,
When the neighbour is at dj * 2-3BL in front of the focal some authors use a kind of force map where the relative pos-
fish (1 yi; < 60°), the focal fish turns away from its neighbour, ition of a fish with respect to a focal fish is decomposed into
as well as when its neighbour is very close to it CF <0.5 BL). the left-right (LR) and front—back (FB) distances [13]. In
The reaction to the neighbour's heading is less intense than figure 2a, (d,, yij) are the polar coordinates of fish j in the
in H. rhodostomus, as shown by the wide white regions in system of reference centred on fish i pointing north. This is
figure 3b. When fish are beyond 3BL from each other, the a continuous system of reference in which all the relative pos-
focal fish turns to adopt the orientation of its neighbour. At itions of fish can be represented. Instead, the LR and FB
short distances, the behaviour is more complex, with changes distances are projections of the relative position of a neigh-
of smaller size than those observed in H. rhodostomus. bour with respect to the focal fish on the d,-axis, where all
