200 S.
100 ° POLIA POLIB WHY!
0 7 0.5 4

Col-0 cue8 gunl cue8 gun
Figure 8. Maintenance of the number of copies of the plastome necessitates GUN1 activity. (a) Number of copies of the plastid genome in WT and the mutants

indicated, expressed per copy of the haploid nuclear genome. (b) Transcript levels of the two organellar DNA polymerases in seedlings of each genotype, and of
transcripts for the nucleoid-associated WHIRLY1 protein, quantified and expressed as in figure 3a.

transplastomic tobacco [24] and has subsequently been SIG5 expression. Hence the sigma factors whose defect triggers
observed associated with defects of the plastid genetic machin- ‘retrograde signalling’ do not fully overlap with those altered
ery. Indeed, the PEP associates with DNA in nucleoids which as part of the plastid response. In fact, consistent with
can be isolated as ‘transcriptionally active chromosomes’ our observations, Woodson et al. [33] observed that arrest of
(pTACs), containing a number of cofactors referred to as chloroplast differentiation with norflurazon reduces the
pTAC proteins. Defects in several pTACs lead to a common transcript accumulation of SIG1 and SIG2, as well as SIG4.
phenotype, including this organellar gene expression response SIG1 has been shown to play a relatively global role, SIG2
and albinism [31]. The decrease in PEP-driven and relative helps transcribe tRNAs but these include the photo-
elevation of NEP-driven transcripts is very prominent in seed- synthetically quantitatively important trnE, the precursor of
lings defective in MRL7/RCB [25], recently shown necessary tetrapyrrole pigments, and SIGS recognizes environment- or
for assembly of the PEP [26], or lacking ANU7, a DnaJ-like stress-responsive promoters [34]. The roles of sigma factors in
chloroplast protein of unknown molecular function [32]. In Arabidopsis involve a combination of specificity and overlap
those cases, the response was presumed to be compensatory, [35], and indeed the functions have evolved and differ
an attempt to correct the defective plastid genetic function. somewhat between dicots and monocots [36].
Elements of the mechanism of correction emerged later from The elevated expression of NEP-encoding RPOT genes