qRT-PCR analysis. Expression of selected transcripts was analysed with cDNA obtained from independent growth of seedlings and was compared to the expression
values obtained from the RNA-seq experiments. Gene expression in NF-treated gun mutants was calculated relative to the NF-treated WT and ACTIN2 as reference
(AAC(t)method). (de) Pearson r > 0.75 indicates a positive correlation between the different datasets and analysis.

a point-mutated C4H gene (figure 1a; electronic supplementary gunt-1, gun5-1, and gun1-1 gun5-1 with the WT in the absence
material, figure S3A/B), showed reduced accumulation of or presence of NF (figure 5). While gun1-1 showed WT-like
anthocyanins compared to WT when germinated in the pres- anthocyanin levels in the control condition without NE
ence of NF (figure 4a). Although anthocyanin accumulation gun5-1 accumulated less anthocyanins, and anthocyanin
was even more impaired in ref3-3 compared to gun1, PHANG deficiency was even more pronounced in gunl-1 gun5-1
expression was suppressed to WT levels after NF treatment plants (figure 5a,b). Stimulated expression of FAB genes
(figure 4b,c), indicating that anthocyanin levels do not deter- (figure 1) led to 2-3-fold higher anthocyanin content in the trea-
mine the transcription rate of PHANGs. This finding was ted WT compared to the control without NF. By contrast, NF-
further supported by the fact that diminished anthocyanin treated gun1-1 and gun5-1 accumulated only 60% and 30%,
accumulation in ref3-3 gunl-1 and ref3-3 gun5-1 compared to respectively, of the WT anthocyanin content. To test if knock
the single mutants did not lead to enhanced PHANG expression out of GUN] exacerbates anthocyanin deficiency in comparison
(figure 4a—c). Likewise, knockout of the genes encoding the FAB to leaky gun1-1 mutant and gun5-1, we additionally analysed a
enzymes flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H), and LDOX desig- loss-of-function allele of GUNI (gun1-102, [38]). While knock
nated ff6 and ft18, respectively (electronic supplementary out of GUN] enhanced uncoupling of PHANG expression (elec-
material, figure S3C/D) prevented the accumulation of antho- tronic supplementary material, figure S4C), the phenotype
cyanins after NF treatment but not the repression of LHCB1.2 (electronic supplementary material, figure S4A) and anthocya-
(figure 4d,e). Additionally, overexpression (pap1-D) and knock- nin content (electronic supplementary material, figure S4B)
out of MYB75 (myb75) positively and negatively affected of gunl-102 was indistinguishable from that of gun1-1 after
anthocyanin biosynthesis upon NF treatment, respectively, but NFtreatment. In agreement, expression of FAB pathway
did not trigger a gun phenotype (figure 4d-f). The lack of a genes was reduced to the same extent in both GUN1 alleles
gun phenotype of mutants defective in FAB is in agreement (electronic supplementary material, figure S4D). Stimulation