degradation, which is relatively well documented, most from the chloroplastic site of synthesis. This also implies the
actors involved in haem transport and mobilization await existence of several haem membrane transporters for inter-
identification, but several lines of evidence suggest a role organellar exchanges. A good candidate protein for intracellu-
for glutathione transferases (GSTs). lar haem trafficking should bind haem with a good but not too

high affinity to deliver haems successfully to haem transpor-
ters or target proteins. In animal systems, several proteins

have been proposed to serve in haem trafficking, including =
2. Synthesis, transport and degradation of the haem-binding proteins (HBPs) [14], some fatty acid-bind- =
ing proteins [15], the glycolytic protein glyceraldehyde3- = 5
haems phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) [16] and also glutathione =
Haems are protein cofactors that are essential for several key S-transferases (see ยง3). In fact, the in-cell haem-binding  &
biological processes, including oxygen transport as part of capacity of such candidate haem chaperones has not been =
haemoglobins, but also of the respiratory and photosynthetic often demonstrated, but it was recently reported that human S
electron transfer chains being present in cytochromes and in GAPDH binds haem in cells and delivers it to downstream tar- N
reaction centres /complexes. They are also crucial for detoxifi- gets such as the inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) [16]. s
cation processes, being present in ascorbate peroxidases and There are two cytosolic GAPDH in Arabidopsis thaliana S
catalases and in cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. The (GAPC1 and GAPC2). At this time, it is not known whether
latter proteins are required for xenobiotic detoxification they could also play a similar role, but they do possess the his-
and/or secondary metabolism. After synthesis, haems must tidine residue, which was shown to be crucial in the human
be transferred to their final destination and client proteins. orthologue for haem binding and exchange. Five HBPs have
This implies the existence of a labile cellular haem pool con- been so far characterized in A. thaliana, including two in the
sisting of haems associated with chaperones. Using a recently chloroplasts (HBP3 and 5) and three in the cytosol [17,18].
developed genetically encoded fluorescent haem sensor, it The cytosolic HBP1 and HBP2 from A. thaliana were shown