We thus exposed leaf discs to hypoxic atmosphere by flushing
nitrogen gas for 20min in darkness and monitored PET
(c) The effect of methyl viologen on photosynthetic during 5 min of low intensity light as in figure 2a-c. In all the

| fer i ibl d by ligh tested lines, hypoxia led to increased fluorescence, as compared
electron transter Is reversibly suppressed by light to the aerobic controls (electronic supplementary material,

in rcd1 figure S3A). This was anticipated, since O, acts as an electron
We next assayed the above-described reactions to MV in the sink for several chloroplast processes including the Mehler reac-
red1 mutant. In MV-treated rcd1, the dynamics of oxygen tion and activity of the chloroplast terminal oxidase PTOX. In
evolution and chlorophyll fluorescence was identical to Col-0 Col-0, MV markedly diminished the hypoxia-related rise in
during the first minutes of illumination (electronic supple- chlorophyll fluorescence (figure 4a; electronic supplementary
mentary material, figures $1, S2A, B). However, longer light material, figure S3A). This was likely owing to the fact that
treatment led to gradual recovery of Fm’ in rcd1, but not in MV catalysed the Mehler reaction, thus compensating for
Col-0 nor in red1 ntre (figure 3). To find out whether the oxygen deficiency. Importantly, the same effect of MV was
changes in Fm’ were related to release of NPQ, we generated observed in the ptox mutant, indicating that it was not associated
an rcd1 npq4 double mutant. In rcd1 npq4, the recovery of with the PTOX activity. Similarly, MV lowered chlorophyll fluor-
Fm’ was suppressed (electronic supplementary material, escence in hypoxia-treated npq4 and stn7, suggesting that the
figure S2C). These experiments indicated that exposure to shift was not owing to NPQ or chloroplast state transitions. In
light gradually released MV-induced NPQ in rcd1, and this striking contrast to all of the above plant lines, in red1, MV did
process was NTRC dependent. not lower chlorophyll fluorescence under hypoxic conditions

To test whether in rcd1 light promoted export of MV from (figure 4a; electronic supplementary material, figure S3A). This
its chloroplast site of action, we interrupted illumination with implies that in red1, but not in other lines, hypoxic environment
20 min dark periods. After each dark treatment, NPQ restored compromised the electron flow through MV.