(Arabidopsis or tobacco) neither perturbed the tetrapyrrole ing concentrations of porphyrin derivatives as shown for S
metabolism nor allowed for fishing of porphyrin molecules, haematin and AtGSTU8 (figure 2d). By fitting the different S
likely because of their cytosolic localization [38,41]. However, curves obtained to the equation of a hyperbola, we determined
expression of a ZmGSTU1-ZmGSTU2 chimeric protein in the maximum number of binding sites (B,,,.) and Ky values
tobacco chloroplasts resulted in the accumulation of hardero- (figure 2d). The Bmax values were comprised between 1.05
porphyrin(ogen)-glutathione conjugates. In in vitro assays, and 1.1 site per protein meaning that there should be only one

both ZmGSTU1 and ZmGSTU2 catalysed the GSH binding site. Using AtGSTU8, the dissociation constants
conjugation of reduced protoporphyrinogen, used as a sub- measured for haematin and haemin were around 2-3 »M,
strate instead of the related harderoporphyrin(ogen) [41]. whereas a value of 11 1M was found for PPIX (figure 2d).
However, they could not conjugate GSH on an oxidized PPIX Values in the same range have been measured for ZmGSTU1

form. This suggests that GSH conjugation occurs only on and AtGSTU19. The fact that the dissociation constants and
reduced porphyrins and might explain why it was not observed thus affinities are better with Fe-bound haems as compared

in former studies [42]. However, the enzymes were rapidly inac- with an Fe-free protoporphyrin suggests that the presence of
tivated presumably because the GSH-conjugated products the Fe atom has some influence on ligand binding. Altogether,
formed a stable complex with them. As porphyrin synthesis these results allowed us to conclude that AtGSTU8 was co-pur-

in chloroplasts proceeds via reduced porphyrinogen intermedi- ified from E. coli cells with a haem b and has an affinity that

ates, it may be that some GSTUs or other GSTs present in this would be favourable for haems exchange reactions.

compartment catalyse their conjugation to GSH. Altogether, Using a culture medium supplemented with FeCl; and
although the biological significance of these interactions is not aminolevulinic acid, we then sought to determine whether