important services to females. In turn, male services may lacking, these patterns suggest that ritualized greetings are
affect female mate choice [65]. If male reproductive success is critical in signalling subordinate/dominant status and may
mostly driven by female preferences, males do not gain represent an appeasement mechanism to avoid more hostile
much from direct contests or coalitionary strategies. Accord- interactions [51,71].
ingly, preliminary observations reported lower levels of Greetings are the most frequent interactions between male
male—male competition compared with other COKY baboon olive baboons and are characterized as friendly exchanges that
species [65] and the lack of both opportunistic coalitions and are strikingly different from the generally highly competitive
high levels of spatial tolerance between adult males (M. Peters- tendencies of males of this species. Almost all greetings occur
dorf 2019, personal communication). As a result of the reduced in a neutral and non-competitive context and are often
need for male communicative mechanisms to balance the costs accompanied by affiliative signals such as lip-smacking and
of competition and the benefits of cooperation, it would not be positive facial expressions [14]. Despite the positive nature of
surprising if greetings were either absent or rare and rudimen- these exchanges, greetings in this species are also tentative
tary. In fact, while further corroboration is needed, male-male and tense, with males frequently struggling to establish greeting
ritualized greetings have never been reported in this species. roles or complete greeting attempts [14]. Physical contacts,
In contrast with the lack of male—-male cooperation in mounting and penis diddling are all quite rare, likely as a

chacma (and possibly in Kinda) baboons, male—male result of the fact that greetings are usually initiated by dominant


males [14,72,73]. Greeting occurrence is lower in groups with Hamadryas baboon greetings are frequent, highly | 4 |

stable dominance relationships, while higher rates can occur if stereotyped and characterized by a distinct gait, frequent
within-group competition and tension is high [72]. The relation- hind-quarter presentations and a general tension between
ship ‘negotiation’ typical of these exchanges seems to vary in the participants [82,87,88]. These exchanges are brief and
relation to age and competitive tactics [14]. Based on a detailed physical contact occurs only rarely [82,87,91]. While initial