with considerable detail. Thus, the information gained from design lead to inefficiency and a sub-optimal coordination
the data is mostly restricted to observing what is there. It is between experiment and theory. As an example of how theoreti-
hard to conceive that the dataset would allow answering cal knowledge supports experimental biology, and moreover
of fundamental scientific questions, such as those regarding enables new insights into biological processes, we mention the
the underlying mechanisms guiding microbial ecosystem studies by Marsland et al. and Goldford et al. [132,133,160]. Brid-
dynamics. It is plausible to assume that for such an endeavour ging theory and experiment, in their studies the authors
a more targeted approach is required. For example, to collect monitored the assembly of hundreds of soil- and plant-derived
barcoding, metagenome and metatranscriptome data with a microbiomes in well-controlled minimal synthetic media. The
high temporal and spatial resolution may be a constructive resulting communities were sequenced using 165 ribosomal
way forward towards testing specific hypotheses regarding RNA, and the outcomes were modelled mathematically. Their
the mechanisms by which key microbial species interact. mathematical models could reproduce large-scale ecological
Such experiments can be designed following some successful patterns observed across multiple experimental settings [133].
research guidelines from this field [149-151]. In fact, we are convinced that the involvement of theory

This example demonstrates that the amount of data does cannot begin too early. Bioinformaticians and modellers
not necessarily correlate with the gain of basic understanding. should be involved during experimental design, because
In other examples, such as the dynamics of the phycosphere of these researchers are typically those that formulate clear
P. tricornutum [137] in controlled environments, we clearly working hypotheses and have a model structure in mind,
have too little data to test the numerous existing hypotheses even before a detailed mathematical model has been con-
about the mechanistic interactions between species. By discuss- structed. Only in close interdisciplinary discussion can the
ing the information content within biological sequences and different goals and aims of experimentalists and theorists
the information flow between various levels of biological be harmonized, and experiments be planned so that the
organization (e.g. amino acid sequence and corresponding sec- resulting data are optimally suited to build mechanistic
ondary structure), we have shown that extracting knowledge models and test scientific hypotheses.
from different information layers can be more effective and