resources; see [4], p. 3). As Stuart Elden, a leading scholar of ter- ritory occurred through landed demarcations and lines of
ritory has noted, studies of territory have typically understood it divisions and zones of state jurisdiction and control ([4],
to be the ‘bounding’ of space, typically a surface ([4], p. 3) where p. 3). There is then, an ‘assumed correspondence of territory
the state (or other actors) create a ‘bordered power container’ with land’ ([7], p. 2), and governance with ground. The art of
([41], p. 799). Territory, then, as described by Gray, is not a governing—in short—has been built on solid foundations.
‘given’, but is ‘political technology’ ‘produced through Returning to DSM, this is important, for what the ISA activi-
technical and legal means’ ([6], p. 259, citing Elden [42]). ties and marine maps show is that ways of organizing the
Consider again, the name given the seabed beyond national governance of offshore mineral extraction have borrowed
jurisdiction. The Area. The word ‘area’ refers to a two-dimen- from grounded ways of organizing the management of space.
sional measure of surface, which defines a particular place, This landed ontology and territorial geophilosophy is an
piece of land or country [43]. The designation of the ‘Area’ in underlying discourse of ocean governance so powerful that it
the first place speaks of the bounding designation of a ‘flat’, ‘sur- is rarely questioned (although see [7]). Indeed, Lambach [30]
ficial’ zone of the seafloor (in spite of the fact activities take place situates the dominating ontology of oceanic control as akin to
in three-dimensional space, where mining requires movements landed methods of enclosure. He argues the ocean is another
through the water column, and exploitation may result in verti- domain subjected to the modern processes of the nation-state
cal, spherical plumes of material that disturb surrounding to contain space for ‘legibility, control and resource exploitation’
habitats). The management and governance activities of the ([30], p. 3). Ryan makes a similar argument in respect of the
ISA, in issuing licenses or contracts for prospecting, exploring desire to ‘zone’ ocean space for plays of political power and
and extracting, are likewise based on these technical, legal, flat, nation-state security [28,29]. As he notes, ‘[zlonation ...has
areal, territorializing principles. Indeed, in 2019, the ISA had, long been used as a way to bring certainty and rationality to

the chaos of everyday life on terra firma’ and such “zonal
logics” are analogous with desires to zone at sea’ ([29],
p- 1056). Examples of taking, demarcating, flagging, controlling,
