
(figure 2), the fluctuations in turnover between 2006 and 2013 a crucial step [56]. However, the literature on state changes
were as a result of a shift between communities exposed to in an ecosystem has mainly related to single species or
drought (which broke in 2011) versus high-rainfall years in environmental variables [57] and little is known on the fre-
the St Lucia region [34]. quency of such shifts in multispecies assemblages with a
From a monitoring perspective, rather than studying multitude of species interactions, and whether they could
long-term changes, it may be preferable to develop methods be detected from assemblage data.
to identify sudden changes in composition. However, the It was beyond the scope of our analysis to link the com-
inter-annual variance in time-series is generally large, munity reorganization to certain environmental variables.
which only allows massive changes in extraordinary years However, for one factor, temperature, we recently gained
to be detected. Neither the analyses of temporal trends, nor better understanding of how warming increases temporal
the inspection of ‘outlier years’ fulfils this quest. However, turnover and why marine communities are particularly sensi-
the data on SERr and SERa over temporal distance also tive to temperature change [58,59]. In fact, for some of the
indicate a rather gradual change in composition. Detecting datasets, there is previous work indicating that long-term
such gradual changes requires consistent long-term monitor- changes in composition might derive from changes in SST.
ing, yielding knowledge on background variation in This is true, e.g. for the North Sea benthos, which was
composition between years, and guides the evaluation of cur- affected by low SST in the 1980s, resulting in reduced abun-
rently observed turnover. Certainly in the South African, and dances of warm-temperate species, which further dropped in
indeed southern hemispheric context, complete, long-term, abundance after an exceptionally cold winter in 1995/1996
multiple taxa monitoring datasets are rare [55], which was [60-62]. After a biological and climate regime shift in 2000/
highlighted during our search and inclusion of datasets 2001, several studies observed a general increase in species
for this study. This is a clear and urgent management number [43,63,64] with a consecutive increase in warm-
obligation that must be addressed in order to accurately temperate species and decrease in cold-temperate species at
quantify biodiversity variability under modern climate various trophic levels of the marine ecosystem and provided
change scenarios. There is a trade-off between the frequency evidence on possible further climate-related shifts around