S3) faster than unrelated juveniles [68], as their learning is facili-
tated by more tolerant role models (i.e. their parents; electronic

supplementary material, video S1). Thus, a life history invol- 6. Cognitive consequences of extended parenting
ving extended parenting is a critical support for learning: In the corvid case studies we presented, Siberian jays tolerate
parents provide their offspring with a safe haven, access to retained offspring more than unrelated non-breeders, which
food and reliable learning opportunities, which together increases the learning opportunities and survival prospects
boost the long-term survival of retained offspring [67]. of retained offspring [43]. New Caledonian crows are highly

tolerant to juveniles independent of their kinship [70], and
adults scaffold the learning process of juveniles acquiring

5. New Caledonian crows: tool manu fact ure tool-making skills (‘education by master-apprenticeship’
[77]). In addition, juveniles of both species are highly proactive

matters in ways that foster opportunities to observe others and to
New Caledonian crows (Corvus moneduloides; electronic sup- practice skills. In Siberian jays, retained juveniles pay more
plementary material, video S1) are endemic to the tropical attention to the behaviour of the adults in their group than
South Pacific island of New Caledonia, where they live in unrelated juveniles do [66]. Juvenile New Caledonian crows
family groups with extended dependency periods: offspring actively follow group members, direct begging behaviours
can be fed by their parents for up to 2 years [69], which towards them, steal foraged food from them and also steal
might explain why this species does not breed cooperatively ready-made tools that they can use to get food (electronic sup-
[69]. During this extended developmental period, juveniles plementary material, figures $4, S5, S6 and video S1). These
have access to tolerant role models (both related and behaviours are tolerated by the adults and ensure survival of
unrelated [70]), from whom they can learn tool-use and tool- juvenile corvids that are not yet nutritionally independent.