of the 484 Choosiness-associated CNVs occurred within 1 kb Pezer et al. sampled eight individuals per population and
of a OR gene, all of which were deletions and all of which identified approximately 4000-10 000 CNVs within populations
were classed as non-identical by state, meaning that these using a sequencing depth and PCR-validation approach [59]. By
Choosiness-associated deletions occurred at overlapping but contrast, Morgan et al. [39] observed 1749 CNVs in a sample of
slightly different coordinates in each replicate comparison of 6886 mice from the Diversity Outbred mouse stock using a read-
the Focal Test. The first was an approximately 412 bp deletion depth approach different to ours, whereas Locke ef al. [62]
in the intronic region of Olfr301 on chromosome 7, the second observed 9634 autosomal CNVs in the genotyping array data
was an approximately 527 bp deletion in the intronic region of of a more genetically diverse dataset of 290 individuals—both
Olfr907 on chromosome 9 (figure 4 and electronic supple- laboratory and wild-derived strains. Fundamental differences
mentary material, table S6). The other two deletions occurred in the methodology and scope of CNV detection, the number
within 1kb of OR genes: an approximately 4469 bp deletion of individuals sampled, and the effective population size
was within approximately 240 bp of Olfr461 on chromosome make it difficult to compare our results to other studies. Perhaps
6, and an approximately 584 bp deletion occurred within due to the fact that this Pool-Seq method assesses CNVs
approximately 279 bp of Olfr564 on chromosome 7 (figure 4 genome-wide, and because we sampled many individuals per
and electronic supplementary material, table 56). Three of pool, we appear to observe a relatively high frequency of
four OR deletions were fixed in both Choosy populations CNVs within wild populations using read-pair orientation in
and absent in both Non-Choosy populations, with the excep- addition to read depth (step 2 of our pipeline, see electronic
tion of the deletion in Olfr301, which showed a fixed supplementary materials).
difference in the first comparison of the Focal Test (Hobro Between populations, tens of thousands of CNVs
versus Borum) but a quantitative, significant allele frequency diverged in frequency. Using a method based on the same
difference between populations in the second comparison principle for detecting CNVs, Schrider et al. [77] identified
(Randers versus Lasby). Since ORs are mostly expressed in hundreds of CNVs that differed between pairs of populations
the main olfactory epithelium, it is not surprising that none of Drosophila melanogaster and D. serrata, separately. Given
of these candidate OR genes showed differential expression that the mouse genome is approximately 20-fold larger than
in the vomeronasal organ when Choosy and Non-Choosy that of Drosophila, the CNV frequency we observe is still five-