was not only more frequent at VIPs compared to non-VIPs; it amount of time [28] (see Methods). s
was also stronger, more intense adaptation [9,10], suggesting Here, we examine signals of recent human adaptation in na
that viruses repeatedly imposed strong selective pressures on diverse human populations to ask whether viruses drove an
their human hosts during evolution. Thus, frequent new zoo- enrichment of signals of recent adaptation at VIPs compared
noses and abundant adaptation at VIPs together suggest that to non-VIPs. Specifically, we test whether VIPs are overall
viruses drove many epidemics in past human evolution. enriched for recent selective sweeps detected by the well-estab-
Despite these clear indications that ancient viral epidemics lished iHS statistic in the 26 human populations represented in
may have been frequent, little is known about which ancient the 1000 Genomes phase 3 dataset [18]. The iHS statistic has
viruses were involved, and how ancient viruses that caused better power to detect the most recent, incomplete selective
ancient epidemics relate phylogenetically to current viruses sweeps, and no power to detect selective sweeps older than
infecting humans. The current lack of knowledge of ancient 50000 years (see power analysis, Methods). This restricts our
viruses can be explained by the difficulty to recover ancient analysis of recent adaptation in response to viruses to human
viral DNA [12], and by the fact that many viruses have their evolution after the migration out of Africa.
genomes coded by RNA that is known to degrade much We further ask whether specific types of viruses drove
faster than DNA. In the light of the scarcity of molecular recent adaptation more frequently than others. More specifi-
remains, how can we identify the viruses that drove ancient cally, our previous results on adaptive introgression from
epidemics during human evolution? Neanderthals to modern humans [11], and the known zoo-
In order to identify viruses that drove ancient epidemics, noses from the recent past [29,30], suggest that RNA
we can use present interactions as proxies for the interactions viruses may have driven more recent adaptation than DNA
with ancient viruses from the same phylogenetic family. viruses because they jump more often from a species to
Using this approach, we previously found evidence that another. The vast majority of known zoonotic viruses that
50000 years ago [13-17], Neanderthals appear to have infected humans in the recent past are RNA viruses from
infected the modern human ancestors of present Europeans diverse RNA virus phylogenetic families, ranging from lenti-
with one or multiple RNA viruses, as shown by the fact viruses such as HIV, flaviviruses (Dengue and Zika virus)
that European modern humans harbour substantially more and filoviruses (Ebola virus) to orthomyxoviruses (influenza