
Ss

Figure 2. Heatmaps of prevalence of 56 top-most abundant OTUs. The prevalence (the per cent of samples with the OTU present) of the top-half most abundant
soil-core OTUs as measured among host samples (a) and then within humans (b) shows the differential distribution of soil-core bacteria based on the host category
and community, respectively. Gorillas and then chimpanzees appear to have the most numerous consistently present taxa, while the bonobo, human and termite
host samples have lower group-based prevalence, indicating a more dispersed, soil-core representation. The soil-core OTU prevalence in the soil samples is expectedly
Near to 100% across all OTUs, reinforcing the notion that these soil-core OTUs are indeed ubiquitous in global soil ecosystems. Taxonomic annotation of OTUs is based
on top BLAST hit from the full NCBI 16S rRNA database.

the fungus-farming termites indicate plateau phases following estimates are viewed for human data alone, stratification is
varying rates of early accumulation. These differences likely apparent based upon subsistence type, but also for lifestage,
relate to the fact that the human and non-fungus-farming ter- defined as ‘child’, ‘adolescent’ and ‘adult’ (see Methods for bin-
mites have more heterogeneous intraspecific subsistence ning criteria; figure 4a,b). Rural-farming and hunter-gatherer
practices within their grouping [67,68]. The mean relative abun- (HG) groups have greater accumulation of taxa per site than
dance of the soil-core taxa summarized by host also show do urban-living humans, which conforms to the hypothesis
distinctive variations in the distributed proportions of present that direct interaction with earth soil is a necessary condition
soil-core taxa (figure 3b; see electronic supplementary material, for soil bacteria to infiltrate the gastrointestinal tract. Curiously,
table S2 for by-host soil-core OTU proportions) with some hosts samples assigned to children also accumulate soil-core taxa
dominated by just one or two taxa (beetle, cricket, fungal comb, richness faster than those assigned to adolescents and adults.
gorilla and human) and others having higher representation by Children tend to interact with their environment more, often
many taxa (bonobo, chimp, cockroach and termite). Addition- orally, at very young ages, but also through play and explora-
ally, the proportion of sample sequences that mapped to soil- tion phenotypes that characterize this lifestage, and which
core OTUs ranged between less than 1% to 20%, and were high- may continue into adolescence. It is expected that children
est surprisingly among the chimpanzee, gorilla and human and adolescents would have greater soil-core taxonomic rich-