cellular organelles called magnetosome (magnetic mineral with its avian host [17].
crystals, each enveloped by a phospholipid bilayer membrane).

One of the strengths of the symbiotic magnetic-sensing

hypothesis is that it is supported by findings that both confirm 3. M agnet otactic bacterial abundance and the
and contradict the magnetite-based magnetoreception hypoth-

esis. The existence of magnetite crystals, similar to those found po lyp hy letic nature of the sym biosis
in MTB magnetosomes, in magnetic-sensing animals, has As mentioned above, a common criticism has been that
served as support for the magnetite-based magnetoreception MTB are too rare to be regularly involved in any particular
hypothesis [8,9]. However, it has been repeatedly shown that symbiosis. Thus, it is important to emphasize that MTB are
these crystals are found in either the extracellular medium or not an anecdote of nature, but in fact, MTB are ubiquitous
in macrophages; yet they have not been found within any across aquatic and anaerobic environments and have a global
nerve tissue associated with magnetoreception. These findings distribution [18], occupying aquatic and sedimentary environ-
conflict with the magnetite-based magnetoreception hypo- ments, deep-sea sediments and hemi-pelagic environments:
thesis [10,11]; however, they are to be expected according inhabiting environments of both neutral pH values to inhab-
to the symbiotic magnetic-sensing hypothesis [6]. Further, iting extreme environments such as saline-alkaline lakes and
behavioural experiments which have demonstrated that even thermals [18]. Moreover, MTB are polyphyletic, currently
short-wavelength light is required for avian magnetic orien- found in diverse classes and even in different phyla (Proteo-
tation [12], have been considered as support for the radical- bacteria, Nitrospirae and Omnitrophica) [18]. Phylogenetic
pair hypothesis and oppose the magnetite-based hypothesis. analyses of MTB have suggested that extensive horizontal mag-
However, in-line with these experiments MTB magnetotaxis netosome-gene transfer contributed to current MTB diversity
is also known to be affected by illumination differences in [18]. The high occurrence of horizontal gene transfer through-
wavelength [13]. Moreover, short-wavelength light could also out the phylogeny of magnetosome-possessing bacteria is