killed by host immune responses. termite. But the intricate physiological interdependencies that


formed required long-term stable co-evolutionary associations mycorrhizal fungi to gather minerals and/or root-associated

between host and symbiont, which during their initiation and bacteria to fix nitrogen [83-85].
throughout required that the costs of tolerance of and invest- We believe that pathogen defence also merits consideration
ment in each partner were outweighed by the benefits as the principal evolutionary advantage of the microbiome. Per-
gained. We suggest that in many cases the pathogen resistance haps the strongest argument in favour of pathogen resistance is
provided by these microbes was an important term in the cost- the apparently ubiquitous opportunity for hosts to gain a sub-
benefit calculation leading to their stable role as providers of stantial pathogen-resistance fitness benefit simply by being
non-pathogen-mediated benefits, especially early on in their colonized by commensals. Death or injury from pathogen infec-
co-evolutionary history. tion is a universal fact for plants and animals, and the strong

The ubiquity of microbial competition means that any com- selection to resist pathogens has driven the evolution of a mul-
mensal with a potential direct benefit will compete against at titude of innate defence mechanisms across the tree of life.
least some of the pathogens that afflict a host. Thus, we However, all innate defence mechanisms are constrained by = =
expect such microbes to provide some pathogen resistance trade-offs with other host needs. Thus, there is a strong poten- >
more often than not, something that has in fact been observed tial benefit for hosts that can also leverage extrinsic factors to __
in many direct mutualisms. For example, the same microbes in increase pathogen resistance. Commensal microbes are just = =
the human gut that convert dietary fibre into short chain fatty such a factor. Commensals are ever-present, and naturally pro- 5!
acids usable by the host also provide pathogen resistance vide pathogen resistance through the innate competition =
through the various types of microbial competition we between microbes over resources and via the many mechan- =
described above [81]. Thus, pathogen resistance can be a sup- isms of microbial warfare. There is no taxonomic or 8
plemental or even the primary benefit initially provided by functional restriction on the microbes that can provide patho- = &