For example, older female macaques often exhibit declines in groups (figure 1). For example, platyrrhines and strepsirrhines >!
social engagement—as indexed by proximity or social network are under-represented in current work, yet exhibit social fea- N
size—and an increasing negativity bias—with declines in tures that are uncommon in Old World primates, including S
giving grooming but consistent levels of aggression [13,97]. female dominance in lemurs [44], and cooperative breeding 8
This may be related to their female-philopatric social organiz- in callitrichids. The lesser apes (gibbons and siamangs) are
ation: females in such species form bonds primarily with kin, important examples of monogamy, and the great apes also
so social networks may shrink as their ageing kin die, yet show great diversity in social organization. While some of
older females can obtain fitness benefits by supporting their these limitations reflect the current state of primate research
daughters in agonistic contexts [54]. Yet different species may effort as a whole, some species like marmosets are well-studied
show different patterns. For example, older male chimpanzees models for physiological ageing [125] yet are nonetheless not
exhibit some age-related increases in social engagement, as represented in current social ageing work.
well as an increasing positivity bias with increasing grooming. A second gap concerns within-species variation across sexes
This might stem in part from the fact that chimpanzees and populations. While both sexes of some species have been
exhibit fission-fusion groups with a high degree of social well-studied, in other groups like Old World monkeys there are
choice, and further that males may be more likely to form flex- often data from only one sex (figure 1 and electronic supplemen-
ible, long-term bonds with both kin and non-kin [64], as tary material, tables S1-S3), which is an important caveat for
discussed previously. interpreting potential sex differences. In addition, there have

A related theme is that sex matters: males and females can been few studies comparing across populations of the same
have different ageing trajectories. For example, while older pri- species, which is another crucial test of how socioecological con-
mates generally withdraw from social interactions, the socially ditions shape ageing. For example, among rhesus macaques and
dominant sex may sometimes exhibit preserved social behav- chimpanzees, males living in large groups can show different
iour, as is seen in representative species of apes, Old World age-related patterns in dominance rank [85,117] and coalitionary
monkeys and strepsirrhines (e.g. male chimpanzees, male aggression [79,107] compared with males in smaller groups. This
rhesus macaques and female ring-tailed lemurs). This may be may be because group size impacts reproductive skew: younger