depending on the approach. Importantly, though, because play a significant role in neurovascular coupling. Such con-
MVPA focuses on the population of activity rather than a siderations, based on differences in vascular neural regional
single voxel of activity, the haemodynamic response function organization, put significant constraints on the likelihood
does not matter as much in this case because the distributed that a single Rosetta Stone will work for the entire brain. It is
voxel patterns themselves are what drives information retrie- important to note, however, that nuanced and informed
val and not whether the signal correlates better with a interpretations of fMRI are still very much possible, particu-
hypothesized response function. This is advantageous in larly if one employs multivariate methods that consider
other ways because the BOLD signal can have its origins at patterns of voxels and their relationship to information
arterioles (distal) or capillaries (local), particularly at conven- coding rather than focal activation. Using such methods, one
tional field strengths [21,101], which MVPA naturally can gain insight into what sorts of information a brain region
captures by considering a spread of voxels. The third advan- codes at the level of fMRI and relate this to what sorts of infor-
tage of MVPA with regard to better capturing underlying mation the LFP and MUA code. Given that these signals also
electrophysiological activity relates specifically to the fact exist at different spatial scales (with single neurons being the
that MVPA considers the distributed patterns of strongly smallest for extracellular electrophysiology), it may be that
and weakly active voxels and how voxels relate to a behav- one can learn different sorts of information by focusing on
ioural variable rather than considering whether activation these different scales. Thus, rather than employing a Rosetta
goes up or down sufficiently at a subset of restricted voxels. Stone to interpret fMRI, one may instead think about what
For example, LFP responses may also reflect a distributed sorts of complementary and convergent information one can
signal, particularly for lower frequency bands [102], and obtain from the different spatio-temporal scales provided by
therefore methods that capture this spatial spread are better fMRI and electrophysiology.

suited to capturing information carried by underlying elec-

trophysiological signals. Also, the LFP, and BOLD signal by Data accessibility. This article has no additional data.
