diet, which are dominant components in phospholipids and in fatty acids with a double bond in n—7 position [2,27]. z
thus indispensable for biomembranes [2]. It is likely that Such fatty acids were only found in trace amounts in the =
especially 20:5(n—3) also occurred in high amounts in the copepods of our study and are generally minor components “S
wax esters of C. acutus, as shown by Albers et al. [26], which in calanoid copepods [26]. Our data show that fatty acid ==
suggests that the excellent feeding conditions during the accumulation, directly assimilated and de novo synthesized, S
experiment increased wax ester biosynthesis. was similar in both species, females and CV stages. However, ©
In the CV stages of C. acutus, a considerable fraction of the the intense alcohol assimilation and labelling of C. acutus CV =
20:1(n—9) fatty acid was converted to the corresponding suggest that wax ester deposition is advantageous, perhaps 5
alcohol. 'C labelling revealed that almost all carbon of this not faster but more efficient compared to storing triacylgly- =
alcohol was replaced by dietary carbon. Correspondingly, cerols. Unfortunately, a direct comparison with C. =
the concentration of the 20:1(n — 9) fatty acid increased only propinquus CV stages was not possible. Ss
slightly. There seems to be a delay of about 3 days in the pro- When feeding '°C-labelled phytoplankton to zooplank- = =
duction of all alcohols. This may be due to the fact that the ton, it has to be considered that only a small part, usually = 5!
precursor fatty acids have to be produced in advance, less than 10%, of dry mass of the phytoplankton diet consists =
mainly de novo, and then reduced to alcohols, which most of lipids, while the main portion comprises proteins with few =
likely requires a higher energetic effort. The pronounced bio- carbohydrates. Therefore, only a minor part of the food is = &
synthesis of alcohols by C. acutus CV stages during feeding directly transferred as phytoplankton lipids to zooplankton. =
also shows that they were actively accumulating lipid stores Hence, the majority of the labelled dietary carbon is used S
by biosynthesizing wax esters. for de novo production and energetic requirements. Part of N
By contrast, in the females of C. acutus, the biosynthesis of the ingested carbon is also lost via respiration and egestion. S
alcohols was generally low, although they still ingested diet- Therefore, future studies should include the analysis of &
ary fatty acids and produced the 20:1(n — 9) fatty acid de novo faecal pellets, although this may be challenging. ~

after a lag phase of about 6 days. Although the portion of
