ninth item, so that one epoch now corresponds to the presen- equation (2.2) (shown as a dashed blue line) corresponds
tation of all nine items. The results of this simulation are very closely to the observed learning time for this dimension
shown in the bottom row of panels of figure 9, and detailed (plotted as a solid line coinciding with and therefore largely
visualizations of the changed and new dimensions are pro- hidden by the dashed line).
vided in figure 8. For several of the dimensions, nothing These observations have important implications for our
has changed, and their initial values already correspond to general understanding of new learning of items in familiar
the full values of s;. Therefore, no further adjustments occur domains. In one sense, the sparrowhawk is highly schema con-
to these dimensions. For dimensions 1 and 3, the projections sistent, to use the terminology of Tse ef al. That is, it shares all of
are quite strong, and so the starting point is already quite far the properties of animals in general and all of the shared prop-
along the eventual learning curve. Learning thus proceeds erties of birds, and even has two properties that have already
immediately for these dimensions, as it did in the case of occurred in other birds. It is not, however, fully predictable
focused training with the sparrowhawk. This corresponds to from knowing that it is a bird. It has one unique property,
the fact that aspects of the new item that are consistent with and it combines variable properties found within birds differ-
what is already known can be rapidly assimilated. As before, ently than they have previously been combined. In general, this
within a fraction of a normalized time unit, the aspects of the situation must apply to nearly every new thing we learn about.
sparrowhawk that map onto dimensions 1 and 3 are learned. Something new will generally share some properties with pre-
Over the rest of the first half of the first time unit, the network viously known items, but some of its properties are likely to be
finds weights that represent a compromise of the first and third unpredictable. Thus, in general, new items will have properties

dimensions so that the other aspects of the sparrowhawk are that are consistent with prior knowledge and others that are


sparrowhawk error other bird error fish error plant error singular values total summed error | 15 |

i) i) = ѡ 10