G adequate to resist the tension tending to enlarge them. But while the gaseous
B Pressure in the conduits cannot exceed the pressure of one atmosphere (for a small
3 bubble forming within them is expanded to fill the cavity in which it arises), yet
.4 the water pulled outwards from the wall will exert a distending tension upon it
4 which will act to close the pit membrane against the dome. The necessary provision
"2 of surface forces adequate to resist this tension and preserve the wall from being
Bsined of water will set a limit to the dimensions of distinct perforations in the
3 torus, if indeed such exist.
4 Tt would appear from the unsymmetrical dévelopitocnt of the pits, by means of
& which the cells of the medullary rays and wood-parenchyma communicate with the
“Z conduits, that the tension established by transpiration is not transmitted in full
= through them. That their contents are often influenced by this tension is, perhaps,
gE indicated by the fact that the closing membrane of the unilateral pits is very usually
a bulged into the lumen of the adjoining conduit.
3 There is one other argument i in favour of the existence of that state of tension of
8 the sap which we assume in the foregoing, and that is the difficulty of explaining the
evasion of such a state. For the conditions inevitably lead to it. What are these
A conditions? Minute cells provided with inter-communication for liquid, but not for
free gaseous motion; their walls completely wetted and indeed eagerly retentive of
water. Such cells paitadizally swamped by a dust-free liquid containing no free gas,
for such cannot move in the tracheides. What now must ensue upon the ebb in the
tide of root pressure? Our experiments indivate that the air containing sap will not
k because of the presence of the dissolved gas before many atmospheres tension
re reached, and that contact with the wetted wall introduces no instability.
There will be, in fact, a state of mechanical stress naturally induced. It appears