view. Monkeys’ presentation decisions revealed a strong pre- be modulated by a higher fraction of ethogram regressors, we
ference for viewing videos of conspecifics over viewing a do not find significant differences in the types of factors associ-
blank screen and a strong preference for less predictable ated with changes in activity in OFC and LPFC. Furthermore,
videos over more-predictable videos. Contrary to our expec- we found considerable heterogeneity in both populations
tations, the nature of the viewed videos did not impact (figure 1), showing modulatory effects on neuronal firing in
monkeys’ presentation decisions. Several possible explanations both directions to the same feature element in the videos,
may account for this result. First, monkeys simply may have suggesting a sparse representation of viewed behavioural
had no preferences among the various behavioural categories categories in OFC and LPFC.
in the ethogram. The striking effect of viewed behavioural cat- Damage to the OFC in human patients results in deficits =>
egories on monkeys’ orienting decisions would seem to belie in social valuation, emotional behaviour and decision making = 5
that explanation, but it is possible that these are fundamentally [40-42]. Studies carried out in non-human primates have =
different decision processes, with distinct, unrelated preference shown responsiveness of individual OFC neurons to faces S
functions. A related possibility is that monkeys did in fact make [43,44] and distinguished images in biologically relevant __
presentation decisions based on the viewed information, but social categories twice as readily as representing juice =
our ethogram failed to capture the relevant dimensions of the volume [13]. Furthermore, Sliwa ef al. [22] used fMRI to =
stimuli. Again, this is at odds with the ethogram’s success in demonstrate that OFC is a part of a network which is selec- >
explaining at least some of the variability in gaze behaviour tively engaged during observation of social interactions =
and neural activity. However, monkeys’ very strong preference compared to interacting objects. This is consistent with our = &
for the Switch option over Continue or Repeat suggests that the finding that the categories of viewed behaviours are more =
lack of preferences for specific behaviours may have been a con- strongly represented by units in OFC than in LPFC (figure 1). S
sequence of the nature of the ‘foraging environment’ that we Our results also demonstrate that this increase in activity is
presented them with. Although our relatively large video data- not simply a global effect of heightened engagement, but S
base meant monkeys saw the same video sequence within the that individual types of behaviour are processed differently Ey
same behavioural session relatively infrequently, all of the sub- by individual neurons. This is highly suggestive that these
ject monkeys performed this task regularly over many months detailed representations are playing an important compu-