risk preferences between chimpanzees and bonobos fit this pat- outcomes yielding zero might have a special standing for
tern, with chimpanzees facing a more unpredictable feeding them, considering chimpanzees have evolved in a risky
ecology than bonobos under natural conditions (e.g. [19]). feeding ecology. While risk-seeking might maximize chimpan-
In humans, risky choice is often modulated by the magni- zees’ survival chances in most situations [19], it might be more
tude of the extreme outcomes—the largest and smallest important to avoid the possibility of a zero outcome than to
rewards encountered in a choice situation [7,9,19]. One key avoid a potential small, but non-zero, outcome. Although
finding is that people overweight extreme outcomes in both investing in gambles with a potential zero outcome might
memory and choice [3]: they choose as if they attribute a occur less frequently than opting for risky alternatives that
higher probability to the values at the high and low edges yield at least small rewards, chimpanzees do occasionally
(ie. the extremes) of the experienced range of outcomes. For engage in activities that bear the risk of receiving nothing. For
example, study participants judged extreme outcomes to example, when chimpanzees take part in solo and cooperative
have occurred more often than moderate outcomes (when in hunting activities, a hunt might not be successful or others
fact they had been presented equally often). When making might not share. Also, in the social domain, investing in social
experience-based decisions, participants expressed more risk- partners may bear the risk of getting nothing if others do
seeking for gains than losses, and this pattern was dependent not reciprocate. In captive settings, pairs of chimpanzees are
on the relative range of the experienced values—people willing to cooperate even when the distribution of rewards is
made more risky choices when presented with a set of high- unequal, i. when one partner gets more than the other
value gain decisions (e.g. fixed +60 versus risky +40/+80) 29,30]. Cooperation breaks down, however, if one partner can
than when presented with a set of low-value gain decisions never profit [31,32]. Campbell et al. [33] recently showed
(e.g. fixed +20 versus risky 0/+40) (for an overview, see [3]). that the same applies to groups of three chimpanzees (better
Interestingly, pigeons behaved according to predictions of paralleling the hunting scenario): they were willing to cooperate
this extreme-outcome rule as well [2]. Recent findings, however, when two partners received three grapes and the third
indicate that pigeons might particularly avoid zero outcomes partner only received one grape, but cooperation broke down
rather than overweight extreme outcomes in general, whereas when not every trial was rewarded with at least one piece of
humans treat zero outcomes like other extreme small outcomes food for each partner.