risk-aversion in gains), which is where lies the crux of their and a non-preferred reward is presented and the order in
message. The conflation of the simulation and the experimen- which a reward for oneself (self-reward) only or the same
tal data helps to determine which behavioural traits, rather reward for oneself but in a package involving a reward for
than an overall model, are likely to have been selected as a conspecific (prosocial reward) is also presented. In both

adaptive across a species’ evolution. cases, the individual has to choose only one option.


The first overall result is that animals are not indifferent to what Basile Garcia and colleagues make clear about exper-

these sequential framings. The second result, most interest- imental designs in neuroeconomics—ie. that they generally
ingly, shows that the presentation of the self-reward before lie somewhere over a continuum between experience-based
the prosocial reward tends to favour the choice of the self- and description-based design—is in fact also true of natural
reward over the prosocial one, although the same amount cultural environments. The cultural components in an environ-
of reward is obtained in both cases. The authors, after ment can be typically defined by the symbolic artefacts
having rigorously controlled for possible confounding fac- and activities it elicits among subjects. An encompassing
tors, such as delay-discounting, concluded that prosociality experimental methodology across the experience—description
can be dependent on some basic framing-effects. The results divide will therefore help us to understand, when adopted in
of this study therefore add up to one of the main messages neuroeconomics, what the neural correlates are, across individ-
that can be retrieved from this theme issue, namely uals and species, that underlie the emergence of symbolic
that behavioural conclusions are finely dependent on the capacities in economic decision-making contexts. The ideais = =
implementation of experimental paradigms. This was certainly to follow the recommendation of either getting exper- >
expected, but the papers presented in this section, each one imentally closer to ecological reality or, at least, being aware of __
in its own way, offer constructive solutions to avoid undue the incontrovertible gap between experiments and the field. = =
scepticism about the interpretability of the results thereby Nature is not carved out as stylized experimental settings. 5!