and glasses) are preferably stolen and bartered for food and consistently adopting a token-based currency; however,
because they present some physical affordances but also what could explain why they do not do so is a motivational,
because it is learnt and then anticipated that they bear some rather than a cognitive, factor. The differential quantity judge-
intrinsic value for their initial owner. They stand for media of ment performances are poorer with secondary rewards
exchange as they have clearly no intrinsic value for the maca- (tokens) than with primary rewards (food), at least in some
ques. Leca and colleagues insist on the cultural transmission of the tests that are administered. By contrast, it is interesting
of apt behaviour (when to steal, how to initiate the exchange) to acknowledge that money in our human species is a highly
and cognitive adequacy (recognition of the good media of motivational stimulus.
exchange, possible anticipation of the acceptable amount and Another study in this issue, by Eleonora Quintiero and col-
type of food to be accepted during the exchange) between leagues [19], addresses the problem regarding which features in
trained adults and youngsters. The data analysis provided in token-exchange structures are required for the systematic adop-
this paper shows the conjunction of two processes: (i) experien- tion of one token, among a variety thereof, as a systematic
tial learning, proved by the fact that young and old subjects’ means of exchange. The focus here is on the association by
performance, in exchange success rate, significantly differs, tufted capuchin monkeys (Sapajus spp.) between the token
and (ii) associations between the perceived intrinsic value and the primary reward according to different qualitative—
(for the robbed human) of the item and the quality—quantity quantitative trade-offs. They test whether capuchins choose
of food obtained in exchange. Subjects clearly engage in optimally, or whether they display violations of rationality
utility-maximizing behaviour based on the perception of the accountable in terms of the less-is-more effect [20] or selec-
relative value of the token and the reward. It is thus possible tive-value effect [21,22]. Both effects boil down to the
to affirm that an economic system and basic cognitive abilities preference for smaller option sets as long as the larger set
to maximize one’s utility (even through very basic cognitive does not contain more of a highly valued item. It means that
aptitudes) are mutually reinforced and that, in this sense, this the evolution of the cognitive abilities to discriminate qualitat-
study points to the fundamental interface between a mind ively probably preceded the cognitive abilities to discriminate
and an emerging institution in which economic science is quantitatively. The authors investigate, through a series of
primarily interested. original experiments, how the processing of quality-quantity