templates [47]. in fact, the overlap between the two is commonly debated.

This way of thinking about the different varieties of stimu- What are the commonalities and differences between the sen-
lus-independent perception has important consequences for sory template that forms when people are pre-attending to an
major debates in many disciplines from philosophy, through upcoming stimulus and a mental image? In the fourth paper
psychology and neuroscience, to psychiatry. In psychology of the issue, Keogh & Pearson [47] present a study that uses a
and neuroscience, answering these questions could shed new special population, individuals with aphantasia, to uncover
light on the traditional antagonism between the perception- the relationship between mental imagery and an anticipatory
versus the imagery-like nature of dreams [14,48-52], bring use of attention—attentional templates.
together animal work on involuntary offline perception and According to an influential view, the lack of attentional gui-
human work on mental imagery [4], illuminate the conceptual dance [9,58] is a central factor of the mechanism that leads to
space around the notion of mind-wandering [7-10], and pro- the spontaneous occurrence of episodes of mind-wandering.
vide new insights into how mental imagery interacts with In fact, spontaneity is claimed to be the essential feature of
perception and cognition [33,34,53]. In psychiatry and clinical mind-wandering [9]. From this perspective, understanding
psychology, understanding the difference between spon- the nature of this spontaneity is of crucial importance. In the
taneous mind-wandering and voluntary mental imagery fifth paper of the issue, Mills et al. [59] investigate spontaneity
could clarify how control is lost in severe hallucinations and in the sense of coming ‘out of the blue’, i.e. when unexpected
disorders of anxiety, and might help design new routes to effec- content-elements occur in surprising times.
tive treatment [53-55]. In philosophy, whether there is a Another form of self-generated experiences that are
common denominator in perception, mental imagery and traditionally understood as spontaneous are involuntary auto-
hallucination could be decisive with regard to a long-standing biographical memories. However, as Berntsen [60] argues in
conflict between different theories of perception [56]. The the sixth paper of the issue, the spontaneity of this variety
varieties of experimental results about the intricate connec- of offline perception is of a different nature. As involuntary
tions between online and various forms of offline perception autobiographical memories are triggered by contextual cues,
could also substantiate some old armchair claims by, among their occurrence is not unexpected, however, because they are