explanatory framework and have spent time cultivating tional nature of sensory attenuation in non-treatment- =
volitional control over perception. In considering what this seeking voice hearers, we would highlight that two aspects = &
may tell us about the mechanisms of AVH in non-treatment- of efference copy signalling that highlight its selective influence =
seeking voice-hearers, we invoke the notion of imagination on sensory processing. First, there are situations, particularly S
within the predictive coding framework. A system that is in young animals, in which it is advantageous for self-
equipped with the machinery to generate a prediction of the generated movement not to generate an efference copy signal s
world in order to infer the causes of external stimuli can (or for that signal to be ignored) and for a self-generated move- Ss
thus enable perception of the external world, but also self- ment to be processed as if it were generated externally [64,65].
generate perceptual states without external stimulation—that This permits the animal important information about how it
is, to imagine [58,59]. In the case of AVHs in non-treatment- controls its own body—information that would typically be
seeking voice hearers, we assume that voices are experienced suppressed via an efference copy signal. Second, corollary
by weighting (perhaps volitionally) prior expectations discharge signals do not always suppress the sensory conse-
(regarding some imagined event) more relative to the sensory quences of one’s own action—in fact, sensory signals are
evidence (that the event is not occurring). In this way, they can sometimes enhanced by the efference copy signal, for example,
better anticipate AVHs and can understand them through when learning new language or song [66]. This is to say that the
their preferred explanatory lens [12]. This would be consistent lack of a suppressing efference copy signal permits a system
with the sensitivity of non-treatment-seeking voice hearers to access to information about self-generated movements,
environmental volatility—the rate of change of environmental speech and thoughts that serve a particular purpose for the
contingencies: they are able to update their beliefs rapidly and individual and which may be relevant for the experience of
appropriately through learning, unlike the treatment-seeking AVHs figure 1.
groups [46]. If one can move between possible priors with alac- Dynamic causal modelling analyses that invite the con-
rity, reconfiguring one’s expectations smoothly and accurately, clusion that neural signals are flowing from expectations
one would probably have strong attentional control over learn- downwards or sensations upwards, might speak to the pro-
ing and belief updating, and by extension, imagination. posed distinctions between treatment and non-treatment-
