Another problem is that existing attempts to model spon- Third, I do not attempt to offer a conclusive defence either = =:
taneous thoughts in waking and sleep along a continuum of the dynamic framework of mind wandering or of the simu- 5!
[6-8] have focused on the relationship between dreaming lation view of dreaming, which are the two main sources of = >
and waking mind wandering. However, there are theoretical inspiration for the framework I propose here. I also do not =
and empirical reasons for saying that there exist kinds of attempt to offer a conclusive critique or discussion of alterna- = &
sleep-related experiences that are distinct from dreaming tive views.” Readers who do not share my enthusiasm for the >
[16-20]. To fully assess the state-dependence of spontaneous frameworks of mind wandering and dreaming I have chosen S
thoughts and experiences, the entire range of sleep-related are free to read this paper as endorsing a conditional claim: — ~~
experience needs to be taken into account. if we assume the dynamic view of mind wandering and the S
Here I aim to fill this gap by proposing a conceptual simulation view of dreaming, as well as the framework of S
framework that distinguishes different kinds of spontaneous dreamless sleep experience derived from it, their integration
thoughts and experiences independently of their occurrence into a unified framework of the type I present here is promis-
in sleep or wakefulness. This framework draws from three ing. I hope that the usefulness of this framework will, in fact,
main sources: one, the dynamic framework of spontaneous further highlight the attractiveness of the positions that have
thought [6,21]; two, simulation theories of dreaming [13-15], inspired it. Yet my main aim, here, is not to resolve conceptual
and three, a taxonomy of dreamless sleep experience that issues for the fields of dreaming and mind wandering indivi-
was derived from simulation theories of dreaming [19,20]. dually; rather, I wish to identify points of contact between
I then apply this framework to findings from sleep, them and sketch a path towards their further integration.
dream, and mind-wandering research to reach a preliminary In sum, my main aim is to make a conceptual contribution:
assessment of the state-dependence question. In particular, I I believe that to assess the state-dependence question, we need
investigate whether the subtypes of spontaneous thoughts a new way to think about conscious states and their relation
and experiences that are distinguished through the proposed to behavioural states. In particular, I believe it is crucial to inte-
framework occur equally in sleep and waking. I argue that grate efforts across sleep, dream and mind-wandering research
overall there are good reasons to think that they do: different to achieve this goal. The framework I present here is intended
subtypes of spontaneous thoughts and experiences appear to as a constructive and potentially research-generating, but also