

[19,90]. Modality-specific imagery may be lacking entirely; period of focus has to be to count as sustained, and at what

instead, world- and self-experience are reduced to pure here- point a shift in thought and attention counts as spontaneous.""
and-now experience associated with amodal spatial and tem- One might be tempted to put a precise measure on this, but I
poral imagery. This shows that even a state in which there is do not think defining a particular number of seconds or minutes
no modality-specific imagery can still be immersive. realistically captures how we conceive of mind wandering

In sum, immersion is a structural feature of experience or use the term. My sense is that, at the limit, we are speaking
that is distinct from intellectual insight, the feeling of reality of periods spanning several seconds rather than minutes.
(e.g. of dream events), as well as multimodal complexity. It seems one can say one’s attention wandered for a few
These features are in fact often associated with immersion seconds before returning to the book one was reading, only to
and so may still be pragmatically valuable in that they can wander again. >
guide more detailed phenomenological questions. For This is consistent with experimental work on mind wan- 5S
instance, for the question of whether spontaneous thoughts dering. It has been proposed that the optimal frequency for =
and experiences in waking can approximate the immersive interrupting participants from a task to probe whether they >
quality of dreams, these factors might give a first, rough indi- were mind wandering or attending to the task is around __
cation of where to look. But we should not take them to be 1 min [104]. Assuming they initially return to the task with = =
strictly necessary for immersion. focus after the interruption, this means less than a minute =

of task focus often gives way to mind wandering. Moreover, >

having a very short timeframe will be useful to pinpoint the =
(e) Summary and open questions behavioural and neural correlates of attentional shifts: the <