adhered to, all things being equal we might expect few west along major waterways into the Amazon basin. Irrespec-
statistically significant deviations in local growth rates. tive of whether a long or a short chronology for the ceramic
Figure 2b, however, highlights spatially heterogeneous demo- Barrancoid series is adopted [41], and not discounting some
graphic growth patterns in a total of 24 comparisons. early archaeological sites that can be associated stylistically
We refer to these comparisons as time slices using letters from [42], the demographic signal is consistent with a demographic
A to Y. Each of these refers to a comparison of growth rates expansion of Arawak speaking fisher/root cropping societies
between adjacent centennial-scale blocks rather than a period [6] within the Amazon basin during the early centuries of the
of a century. For example, time slice F-G compares the change first millennium AD. p-significant plots starting at slice G-H
in growth rates between 550-450 BC (block F) and 450-350 (400-300 BC) arguably signal the beginning of an Arawakan
BC (block G). For ease of writing, we employ the median expansion, while p-significant areas in J-K and K-L may be
dates of each set of blocks when reporting change over time, further fluorescence of this phenomenon (electronic sup-

i.e. we refer to time slice F-G simply as 500-400 BC. plementary material, figure S1). The fact that, in aggregate,


our demographic signal never overshoots the expectations epitomizes the expansion of both Arauquinoid/Incised-Punc-

of the logistic model can be interpreted as empirical evidence tuate ceramic complexes (which are often associated with
that populations never exceeded carrying capacity. We argue Carib languages) and pottery of the Amazonian Polychrome
that this better supports a ‘pull’ model of population expansion tradition (which in western Amazonia can be associated
[43], one characterized by ‘budding off’ of splinter groups, with Tupi-Guarani languages): both reach their apogee early
than a ‘push’ model of Arawakan expansion, the latter during the second millennium AD. That population growth
instigated by population pressure under scarce landed in the Madeira region accelerates earlier than the middle
resources [15]. We also argue that it contradicts a ‘strong’ ver- Amazon can lend support to suggestions of a southwestern
sion of the ‘trade and exchange’ hypothesis [8], which we origin for Amazonian Polychrome tradition groups [46],