by the Late Bronze Age copper mine at Mauk E in the period of interest as described above. Such a choice is appro-
Austrian Tyrol (figure 1a; [12,13]). This mine produced priate given a negative binomial distribution is frequently
some radiocarbon dates that likely exhibit ‘old wood’ effects, used to model waiting times until a failure (in this case
but even excluding these, the rest of the sample visually mine abandonment). Figure 4a juxtaposes a correct, uniform
suggests a duration of many centuries, due to a combination pattern of unchanging mine counts through time (red
of the accompanying '*C measurement uncertainty and a dashed line), with the dramatically different pattern observed
plateau in the calibration curve at this point (the well- if all mines are assumed to be of similar duration. The poten-
known ‘Hallstatt plateau’). Bayesian modelling of the likely tial risk for misinterpretation is hopefully obvious. On a more
duration improves things if we assume the dates are repre- positive note, if sufficient absolute dating evidence exists,
sentative of the total activity at the site (figure 1b), but the relevant signal for this problem should be retrievable.
not if we simply model the difference between likely start For example, if we take just 15 mines spread out across
and end dates (a distinction in OxCal software between a early, middle and late parts of the sequence and sample
‘span’ and an ‘interval’ model, see [28]). In fact, tree-ring five hypothetical radiocarbon dates at each mine (a plausible,
sequences from various timber supports at Mauk E suggest financially viable amount of radiocarbon sampling; see
an even shorter likely duration of about at most a few decades electronic supplementary material, for sampling routine,
(900-869 BCE). back-calibration and error modelling), an OxCal span model

We can further use copper mines as a conceptual prompt does correctly indicate this likely changing trend, allowing
for another tactical simulation. Imagine a simple example in us perhaps to adjust our modelling and interpretation accord-
which, for each year over a millennium time span from ingly. While similar issues have been explored in the past, for
1750 to 750 BCE, there are always exactly 100 copper mines instance in relation to archaeological periodization and the
of equal size each year that are producing copper for contemporaneity problem (e.g. [36,37], more recently [38]),

Bronze Age Europe. The only thing we alter is the duration the implications of duration have been underexplored in
