
4, Aggregation effects and spatially dependent Eastern Tokyo Bay [3] organized into chrono-typological
. periods and divided by archaeological sites. Some periods
sampling (e.g. Early Kasori E) are characterized by a skewed size distri-
As the above has already made clear, one lurking and bution, with few sites (such as Ariyoshi-Kita) having a large
well-known issue with any count-based population proxy is share of the total number of residential units, while other
the question of whether an extra unit of the proxy straightfor- periods (e.g. Late Kasori E) have a more even distribution of
wardly implies an extra unit of inferred activity or population settlement sizes. It follows that the exclusion of some sites
(see [4] for a relevant recent review). In other words, can (e.g. Aioi) from the sample has a small impact on the time
a doubling of the proxy—whether this is the count of exca- series of pit-dwelling counts, while the removal of others (e.g.
vated dwellings, of known sites or of radiocarbon dates, for Ariyoshi-Kita) can have a drastic impact.
instance—be straightforwardly interpreted as a doubling of To further illustrate this issue, we employ another tactical
population? In fact, rarely is this an easy assumption to sus- simulation (figure 5, see electronic supplementary material,
tain: such time series usually cover large periods of time in for further details) in which the simulated data consist of
which there are changes in residential mobility, the degree of two archaeological periods with the same duration in time
settlement nucleation or in energy expenditure [39]. A ‘settle- and the same number of residential units, but different settle-
ment’ can thus have a changing meaning, sometimes referring ment sizes. In the first period, there are a few large nucleated
to large cities while at others referring only to hamlets or farm- settlements but many smaller sites. In the second period,
steads and yet potentially counting them all as equivalent settlements are in contrast mostly of similar size (see inset
(researchers working in settings where settlement seasonality in figure 5). Because the number of residential units is the
is likely will already be attuned to such challenges over short same in both periods, the ‘true’ percentage change between
time scales). Even individual dwellings cannot always be trea- the two periods is 0 (total population is the same, only the
ted as equivalents over longer time periods, in the case for spatial structure of that population across the landscape has
example where they do not maintain consistent numbers of changed). The simulation then emulates typical archaeologi-
co-residents (e.g. changes from or towards nuclear versus cal excavation or survey procedures in sampling different