such that old bees must switch from foraging to nursing larvae (mid
panels). This task-switch is a behavioural reversion for the bees, because
about all of them were nurses before they became foragers. Old reverted
Nurses that improve in brain function have greater than twofold higher
Prx-6 levels than those bees that continue to forage (bottom panel).

improvements in multiple aspects of cognitive function [83- port the former two possibilities, while the minor workers of
85]. Similar relationships between ageing, cognitive decline, another eusocial insect, Pheidole dentata, support the latter.
and the protective effects of social interaction can be found Similar to honeybee workers, P. dentata minors increase their
in the worker caste of A. mellifera. Honeybee workers begin task repertoire with age, eventually performing outside-nest
to senescence approximately 14 days after their initial fora- tasks such as foraging [96]. However, aged P. dentata minors
ging flight. The age at which a worker takes its initial experience negligible senescence in brain structures that regu-
foraging flight is independent of chronological age, rather, late task performance, and in fact display an increased ability
determined by a combination of genetic, environmental, to switch tasks given colony needs. Old P. dentata workers
and social influences [61]. Senescent foragers tend to have retain a full range of sensory abilities, as well as increased
decreased learning and memory ability compared to younger titers of serotonin and dopamine in the brain. These counter-
foragers and in-hive nurses, however, the progression of intuitive characteristics of older individuals may ultimately
senescence itself can be modulated by social factors such as be related to the lower neurometabolic costs of individuals
brood presence [86]. Fascinatingly, cognitive decline in hon- in highly integrated societies which can practice ‘collective
eybee workers can also be reversed by experimentally cognition’ [97]. Although this ultimate hypothesis may not
removing young in-hive bees from the colony (ie. altering translate to humans, investigating the intrinsic resilience of
colony age demographics) (figure 3). This manipulation P. dentata minors to senescence may illuminate fundamental
induces senescent honeybees to revert back to performing in- proximate mechanisms that govern variation in our own
hive tasks such as brood care. This switch to tasks associated intrinsic resilience to senescence.
