suppress urban mosquito populations [9-12]. What is more, homology. The host cell DNA repair machinery uses this =
the availability of an assembled genome for many of the chromosome as a template on which to synthesize new DNA S
major malaria vectors, coupled with an ability to manipulate to ‘fill’ the gap, in a process called homology-directed repair. —
these genomes through modern genome editing tools, offers In so doing it leads to ‘homing’ of the HEG and a small s
the possibility of identifying the genetic determinants of key amount of surrounding sequence so that it is now duplicated 3
traits such as reproduction, host-seeking behaviour and on both chromosomes. For homing to lead to a biased inheri-
parasite susceptibility. This, in turn, offers the possibility to tance of the HEG it must occur in the cells that contribute
modify these traits in wild populations, but one crucial ques- to the next generation (the ‘germline’ in multicellular
tion remains: how do you spread these traits in a population? organisms)—if it happens efficiently in the cells that become
The solution to this is not immediately trivial—any of these gametes, then an individual heterozygous for the HEG will
traits are unlikely to confer a significant fitness benefit and produce a majority of gametes with a copy of the HEG and
therefore will not be selected, meaning that their frequency in its associated trait, compared to the 50% that would be expected
a given population will not increase over time. In fact, many to receive it through normal Mendelian segregation (figure 1,
of these engineered traits may even incur a negative fitness middle). Therefore, the HEG can rapidly increase in frequency
effect, upon the mosquito at least. each generation.
In the case of sub-Saharan Africa, where the malaria burden In both Anopheles gambiae and Anopheles stephensi mosqui-
is highest, malaria vectors are rurally distributed across large toes, CRISPR-based HEGs have been shown to show biased
geographical ranges and it may not be feasible to release inheritance rates of close to 100% [22-24]. Broadly, in order to
sufficient numbers of mosquitoes in order to reach an appreci- couple a trait of interest to the gene drive, two main approaches
able frequency in the target control area, at scale [13]—even for are available: the gene drive knocks out some essential gene in
an introduced trait that were neutral to the mosquito one the mosquito; the gene drive is tightly linked to some desirable
would have to release, at minimum, a quantity of mosquitoes effector gene (a cargo) (figure 1, bottom panel). In the former
far in excess of the wild-type into every village population. case, the presence of the gene drive should cause a recessive
This means that without some other force to push these traits phenotype, effectively acting as a sort of genomic parasite—
through a population they would be rapidly lost, either as the gene drive spreads through the population heterozygous