making them more likely to bite indoors where they are, in

4. Discussion

the absence of resistant mosquitoes, more likely to be killed The public health benefit of adding emanators or spatial
by a LLIN. As LLINs become less able to kill mosquitoes, repellents to communities protected by insecticide-treated bed-
this effect diminishes and so the additional benefit of emana- nets depends heavily on the bionomics of the local mosquito
tors is smaller. For mosquitoes with a weaker preference for population. The mathematical modelling exercise indicated
biting humans, the pre-intervention prevalence at which elim- that emanators provided an additional benefit over LLIN use
ination can be achieved is lower across the board (figure 4d-f). alone in all explored scenarios. Generally, this benefit was lar-
However, the additional effect of emanators does not diminish gest in areas that where the mosquito population had a low
as clearly along with the level of bioassay survival. This reflects HBI, high outdoor biting and were susceptible to the insecti-
the fact that mosquitoes are less likely to bite another human cides used on LLINs, suggesting that spatial repellents could
once repelled, now repellence is more comparable to mortality be targeted to locations with specific entomological character-
since a mosquito is unlikely to attempt to bite a human again. istics. The work also reiterates that emanators that induce
It is unclear whether volatile pyrethroids released by mosquito mortality should be prioritized.
emanators outdoors induced mosquito mortality. Neverthe- Simulations indicate that for mosquitoes with a high HBI,
less, here we investigate the impact of mortality to determine the biggest epidemiological impact of emanators is to push
whether it should be part of a target product profile. For the bites away from people outdoors in the evening and onto
high HBI mosquitoes, if 20% of mosquitoes coming into con- another vector control method that kills mosquitoes. This
tact with emanators are killed (regardless of the level of means that, even if emanators continue to repel pyrethroid-
knockdown resistance), then this would drastically increase resistant mosquitoes, their effectiveness will diminish along
the effectiveness of emanators and LLINs used together with the mortality effect of LLINs. In these scenarios, emana-

(figure 4b). Alternatively, if the repelling effect of an emanator tors are unlikely to counteract the loss of LLIN effectiveness