
This description of the mechanism of labour is used as a childbirth clearly based on the gynaecoid pelvis, emphasizes z
standard model of human birth in midwifery and obstetrics the differences between humans and other apes and unwit-
textbooks (e.g. [5,6,17,39]), in the same way as the gynaecoid tingly implies that the anthropoid pelvis and the
pelvis is used as a model for ‘normal’ female pelvic shape. mechanism of labour that often accompany it are less typi-
While this might be the most common mechanism in cally human, or as Caldwell et al. put it, represent an ‘arrest
women of European ancestry, it is unlikely to serve as well in evolution from the ape form’ [20, p. 487]. The proposed
as a model for other populations owing to geographical vari- link between a backward-facing presentation of the baby at
ation in canal shape. If the shape of the canal varies across birth and the evolution of midwifery could also have contrib-
human populations, we can expect that the mechanism of uted to the continuing prominence given to the occipito-
labour will vary too [1]. anterior presentation as the ‘normal’ human type of fetal

Alternative mechanisms of labour are sometimes men- emergence, despite the fact that a forward-facing occipito-
tioned in midwifery textbooks, especially in regard to the posterior position is fairly common in our species (56-12%;
anthropoid pelvis (e.g. [5,6]). The inlet in the anthropoid [34] and references therein).
pelvis (equivalent to Thoms’s [14] dolichopellic type) has a A good understanding of canal shape variation and
longer antero-posterior dimension, which persists through expected fetal rotations becomes essential in the case of child-
the midplane and outlet. The fetus tends to enter the canal birth complications that require mechanical intervention to
facing either backward or forward, and maintain this facilitate the birth. Forceps or a ventouse are often used
position until birth. While for the gynaecoid pelvis, most when the fetus cannot progress through the canal, or is show-
newborns emerge from the canal facing backward, forward ing signs of distress and birth needs to be accelerated. These
facing is quite common for the anthropoid pelvis [33,34], instruments are applied to the fetal head and used to gently
estimated at around 19% [14]. In terms of fetal engage- pull the fetus out. During this delicate manoeuvre, the fetus
ment, internal rotations and birth presentation, the ‘normal’ sometimes needs to be rotated to align the longest head diam-
mechanism of labour for the anthropoid pelvis differs sub- eter to the most spacious canal diameter. Moloy’s evaluation of