regarding channelism come from holistic approaches between vertical, oblique and horizontal transmission modes
that unify things in a non-reductive manner. These holistic of cultural inheritance. The vertical transmission mode runs
approaches challenge channelism with respect to new from parents to offspring, while the oblique mode operates
insights regarding epigenetic inheritance, or from the between genealogically unrelated individuals of different gen-
perspective of developmental systems theory. Meloni erations. The horizontal mode limits the latter to individuals of
[13, p. 71], for instance, writes that epigenetic inheritance is the same generation. This tripartite grid goes back to Cavalli-
a ‘key mechanism in blurring the demarcation between Sforza & Feldman [3], the locus classicus of contemporary
social and biological processes’, meaning cultural and bio- debates on gene-culture coevolution.

logical inheritance. The most explicit attack against distinct The common-sense view takes biological inheritance to be
channels of inheritance stems from Griffiths & Gray’s simply vertical. Hence, can’t we establish the difference
[14,15] turn-of-the-century version of developmental systems between biological and cultural inheritance by pointing to
theory. ‘So-called channels’, Griffiths & Gray [15, p. 196] the fact that culture is vertical and horizontal and oblique,
claimed, are ‘not generally independent of one another’. ie. not only vertical? Or by pointing to the fact that culture
That this explicit attack against channelism in Griffiths & can change more quickly than nature?° Indeed, that is the
Gray [14,15] gave way to a silent indecisiveness is telling, basic idea usually at play and it will be used in this article
but it is not resolving the issue. Griffiths & Gray [16], for too. Yet, the devil is (as always) in the details. Using the
instance, implicitly use some concept of channels (and actu- three modes to differentiate between cultural and biological
ally did so already while criticizing it in 2001). They do so inheritance is less straightforward than it seems at first
by referring to ‘extragenetic inheritance’ in contrast with glance since both cultural inheritance and biological inheri-

‘genetic inheritance’. Their usage of the label ‘extra-genetic’ tance can be vertical, oblique and horizontal, and both can


A B Cc