Innovation filtering remedies the influx of incompatible traits
into the population and individual repertoires. Contrary to
the model filtering, this limits the introduction of new traits
into the population, while those that are introduced can
spread freely, since transmission is unfiltered. For mostly
incompatible trait pools, the agents in a population share
most of the traits, leading to high similarity, and culture
and repertoire sizes to be almost equal.

Innovation filtering is not as effective as trait filtering at

(b) Results maintaining internally consistent repertoires. A possible
As for trait filtering in the previous section, for each measure, explanation comes from the fact that agents are born without
we recorded the values for each 1000th time step during the culture, and before they have acquired most of the culture of
last 20% of each simulation run, and report the averages of the other agents, they have the opportunity of inventing traits
these. The results after 10° iterations are presented in figure 1. that are incompatible with those other traits, and due to
The between-individual compatibilities were similar to the indiscriminate transmission, the new trait will spread. There
internal compatibilities, with a few alterations commented on is no filtering in the cultural transmission, only in individual
below, and are therefore not included in the figure. learning. Since most learning is social, most traits are

In general, basing the transmission of a trait on its com- acquired without filtering. Adding to this effect, since old
patibility to other traits of the sender or receiver provides agents have larger, incompatible, repertoires than young
the highest compatibility of cultural systems and similarity agents, when given the opportunity to invent, young agents
between them. Looking in more detail at each mode of are more likely not to filter out the potential innovation,
filtering, we find the following. and are thus more likely to introduce new traits. When