Figure 4. Gross growth efficiency in terms of the EFA (a) EPA and (b) DHA ment (days 2 and 4) and higher amounts towards the end
(GGEg,, mean + s.d.) measured in C. finmarchicus ingesting the dinoflagellate (days 6 and 8). Egested EPA and DHA ranged from 0.07 to
H. triquetra in two 8 day feeding experiments with different temperature treat- 0.3 and 0.8 to 2 ng ind“! d™! at 6°C, and 0.09 to 0.4 and 1.3

ments. Dashed line in (a) is a reference line indicating 100%. to 5.3ngind"'d7' at 12°C, respectively. Faecal pellets



collected at most time steps contained insufficient material temperature had competing effects on DHA incorporation rates

for isotopic analysis of EFA. However, faecal pellet DHA (positive) and DHA cell content in the dinoflagellate (negative),
SC composition was 13.9 atom% on day 6 and 16.6 atom% with the combined influence of higher temperature translating
on day 8 at 6°C and 12°C, respectively, slightly depleted in to higher GGEpua in C. finmarchicus. In fact, algal DHA content
8C compared with dinoflagellate composition (21.5 and proved to be a significant influential variable for predicting
26.8%) on corresponding sampling days (figure 2b, insert). GGEpna, and overall GGEpya appeared to depend on the
In the diatom experiments, the dominant FA present in interplay between temperature and algal DHA content. Our
faecal pellets were again palmitic acid (23% of total FA) finding of higher GGEpy};4 with low prey DHA content implies
and stearic acid (11% of total FA), as well as the monounsa- that food quality affects GGEp,a, perhaps more than tempera-
turate 16:1n-9 (15% of total FA). The common diatom ture, as copepods may assimilate available FA more
monounsaturate 16:1n-7 represented 9% of total FA. EPA efficiently when prey FA content is lower. This was also evi-
and DHA were consistently detected in faecal pellets only dent in the diatom experiments, where incorporation of EPA
in the experiment with temperature stress. Amounts were and DHA is comparable in the copepods, despite their con-
higher than in pellets from the dinoflagellate treatment on siderably different proportions in the diatom. Ss
days 4-8, with egested EPA ranging from 1.1 to Our results suggest copepodites could optimize growth = =
36.2ngind“'d7', and egested DHA ranging from 2.0 to and use lipids efficiently in relatively warm waters, even = 5!