ficially misaligned data to test the robustness of the data. This practice reduces the need to correct for gradient

classification accuracy [52]. A one-voxel shift of the test nonlinearities [65]. The MP2RAGE sequence results in


(a) (b)
T,*-weighted T,-weighted © CMRO, CBF VASO (CBY)

Figure 2. Vascular structure and functional MRI contrast mechanisms. (a) While T,*-weighted approaches (e.g. GE EPI) have strong contributions from macrovas-
culature, other functional MRI technologies are biased toward the microvascular signal, which is regulated at a scale appropriate for capturing the mesoscopic
Neuronal structure. Blue lines represent veins; red lines represent arteries. Acquisition techniques weighted toward the microvascular signal often have relatively
low CNR and therefore require long acquisition times or high field strength to be successful. VASO, vascular space occupancy. (b) Many studies that use high-CNR
T,*w fMRI rely on the fact that voxels can be separated into low-resolution voxels that sample large veins (pink cube) and high-resolution voxels that are dominated
by microvascular signal (black cube). (Online version in colour.)

segmentable T,-weighted anatomical images with reduced T,*-weighted GE signal is predominantly generated from
sensitivity to inhomogeneities in radio frequency transmit venous microvasculature and macrovasculature [68,69].
profiles (ie. B; inhomogeneities [55]). That said, cortical Ascending veins carry deoxygenated blood towards the pial
reconstruction efforts of anatomical data acquired at UHF surface and pial veins. Thus, the anatomical distribution of
may be less reliable for those studies using a surface coil ascending and pial veins coupled with how laminar profiles
with a limited field of view. Defining surfaces and GM are ‘read’ (i.e. per cent signal change differences at relative
boundaries from anatomical images acquired during a separ- depths between WM boundary and pial surface) result in a
ate scanning session may be the most practical approach, GE signal biased towards more superficial layers. In essence,
though distortion in the functional images remains a a signal that we expect to find in middle layers has the poten-
problem. tial to be expressed as activation in middle and superficial