
cognition and learning, and drives cultural traits back to intui-
tive, simple forms. Nevertheless, distortions arising from

biased transformation may serve as variation upon which cul- (e.g. [3]) avoid the term ‘selection’, preferring ‘transmission bias’.
tural selection may act, such that biased transformation may Others do use the term (e.g. [5]). It seems to me that the process of =
play a role in cumulative cultural evolution in combination selectively copying certain other individuals (e.g. those high in pres-  S
with cultural selection. Model 2 could be extended to explore tige) or certain types of traits (e.g. more effective tools) justifies use of =
. . the term ‘selection’, and is appropriate given the foundation of this a
these interactions. tradition in population-genetic models. Many of the scholars who I =
A further limitation of the present models is the lack of cite in association with biased transformation often use the term ‘cul- — ~
individual differences in the operation of both cultural selec- tural attraction’, but I will avoid this term due to its ambiguity = =
tion and biased transformation. Different individuals may [39,40], and due to the fact that sometimes selection-like learning = =
employ cultural selection processes such as payoff-biased biases such as conformity are included within it [29]. The term = 5
. . . . ‘biased transformation’ is used frequently in Scott-Phillips et al. [30] —
social learning to different extents, influenced by such factors to describe the core mechanism of the cultural attraction approach, A
as cultural background and subsistence [84-86]. In the context and so seems a suitable description of its key assumption. R
of biased transformation, different individuals in the same “This is not, however, as clear-cut as often portrayed (FJ Weissing >
population may possess different inductive priors (beyond 2020, personal communication). Strictly, the second term in the S
the external ecological differences noted in the previous para- Price equation can only be equated solely with trait transform:
. . . . ation/transmission if selection is very weak and frequency- S
graph), which models show may result in different population- independent. Otherwise, the second term will be affected by factors Ss
level outcomes to any of those specific individual priors [87]. other than transformation, such as changes in the environment, al

In conclusion, there should be no debate over whether cul- and even in genetic systems will often be non-negligible (otherwise,