rider problem—because punishment is costly individuals ager groups that characterized much of human history.
would receive a higher pay-off if they did not punish. Such This discussion also raises issues about the decision-
automatic, reflexive behaviour can potentially come about making process and set-up of the political game aspect of
through some kind of internalized norm, but that would our model. Here we chose a majority-rule voting mechanism
simply beg the question of how such a norm came to be. in order to have acceptance of a new punishment value,
More realistic models of punishment will be developed in which we envisaged abstractly as capturing discussions that
the future that allow for the possibility of non-punishment. groups might have in order to gather individual viewpoints
Similar to mechanisms such as ‘strong reciprocity’ [64] as seen in many small-scale group situations, rather than
some form of group selection where in groups with higher necessarily a formal vote that we see in modern, democratic
frequencies of non-punishers would be more likely to go settings. Although we feel it would be unlikely to dramatically
extinct is one possible solution to the problem [22]. However, affect the results of the current model, more explicitly delibera-
as Powers et al. [2] point out this is not the only solution and tive decision-making processes may be relevant for many
in fact examples from the real world (such as the examples informal institutions, e.g. Perret et al. [67] and Gavrilets et al.
described in §1) show that certain institutional rules can [68] explicitly model consensus decision-making processes. It
lead to direct benefits for punishers (see also [58]). In contrast is also worth pointing out that having a recognized system
to the peer-punishment system we have used here other for agreeing upon rules is an institutional feature itself and
models of institutionalized punishment have employed a so our model assumes this mechanism is in place. Furthermore,
pool-punishment system whereby a proportion of an in our model institutional change occurs via deviations in a
agent’s returns from the public good goes into a central pot single, continuous parameter. However, institutional changes
that is used to finance punishment [61,65]. We chose to may occur in other ways that could be modelled in future
start with a peer-punishment mechanism as this arguably work such as introducing a new type of rule, changing who
requires fewer additional elements in comparison to a popu- a rule applies to or other conditions about the rule, or adding
lation that lacks any form of institutionalized punishment additional rules. We return to this point in the conclusion.
(see also [66] which has a peer-punishment mechanism Other key assumptions in our model are that all individ-
