centralized mechanism for punishment, status differences or Figure 3 shows the output from 100 iterations of the model Ss
official positions of leadership (see ยง3c for further discussion and shows how the mechanism works. Punishment values x
on this and other related points). We stress that the model start at 0, until such point that a value is proposed that
presented here is primarily for illustrative purposes and leads to (i) an immediate higher pay-off to cooperators, and
below we discuss some of the reasons for the particular mod- (ii) a better predicted long-term pay-off for free-riders (who
elling choices, some of the limits or challenges of such an are in the majority at that point) compared to the prediction
approach, and also the ways in which it might be modified based on the current cost. The increased relative pay-off to
or updated. cooperators means that free-riders are removed from the

population over time. Over time the pay-offs to cooperators
and free-riders increase (the remaining free-riders benefit

(a) Model set- p from the fact that there are more cooperators around so the
Details of the model are given in the electronic supplemen- PG is greater). Once cooperators have been established as
tary material but we summarize the key conceptual points the majority in the population occasionally punishment
here. In this model, the economic game involves agents con- values are accepted that lead to free-riders increasing in fre-
tributing a set amount (10%) of their budget (10 units) to a quency until a new value is proposed that restores the
public pot. Any donations are then doubled and redistributed relative advantage to cooperators. This particular mechanism
to all agents. This presents the classic collective action pro- (with its associated assumptions) is therefore able to promote
blem [63]: the biggest overall benefit comes if all agents and stabilize cooperation under these conditions. In the elec-
contribute their full amount, yet individually an agent will tronic supplementary material, we present the results of some
get a bigger pay-off by not contributing and yet still receiving sensitivity analyses which show that as long as agents are
a share of the public good. If agents are able to choose their able to propose punishment values that are sufficiently high
strategy based on achieving the best individual pay-offs, or then free-riders will be removed from the population.
