differences in genealogies are observed across some genetic the fact that words in the Indo-European languages often
loci and also with the overarching species tree. It results from have complex paradigms that were differently transmitted
incomplete sorting of an ancestral polymorphism during suc- during the evolution of the Indo-European languages. As a
cessive speciation events, leading to gene trees that coalesce at result, a word like English ‘sun’ reflects an ancient genitive
different points in time [64]. Remarkably, for instance, whole- (or more properly ‘oblique’) form, while a word like Spanish
genome analysis of the great apes has indicated that approxi- ‘sol’ reflects an ancient nominative (rectus) form. Although
mately 30% of our genome supports that humans split from both languages are related, they show different word forms
chimpanzees earlier than they split from gorillas, or that these for the concept ‘sun’, owing to a specific form of linguistic
two species split from humans earlier than they split from variation that was inherited by many descendants of the
each other [65]. That gene trees are not always congruent with Indo-European language. But linguistic variation is only one
species trees highlights the inevitability that cultural trait phylo- factor contributing to patterns that seem to contradict a given
genies will not always display the same topology even when the phylogeny. Another very common source of variation is socio-
underlying cultural history is completely tree-like. linguistic variation due to the fact that each language variety is
Incomplete lineage sorting might be quite common in spoken by many speakers at the same time who may well pro-
language evolution, given the multiple sources of polymorphism nounce words differently or prefer certain words over other
that characterize language change [66]. There are two major ones, in different contexts. According to Kroonen [71], this
sources for polymorphisms in language evolution—sociolinguis- must have been the case in Proto-Germanic, the ancestor
tic variation and linguistic variation. Neither of these two sources language of Swedish and English, where two words for ‘sun’
of variation can be easily filtered out during data preparation, seem to have been in use at the same time, one that later
which is why it is important to consider both when using linguis- became the ancestor of English sun, and one that later
tic data to make evolutionary inferences. Sociolinguistic variation became the ancestor of Swedish sol. While the English form

refers to the fact that social factors can generate individual ultimately goes back to the old genitive and the Swedish

