different survival of X- and Y-sperm in the female reproductive phase ([56]; see also [34]).
tract of mammals including humans has been suggested sev- Finally, it is possible that some sperm traits are under
eral times, but these observations are currently still anecdotal. haploid control while others are under diploid control. The evi-
The recent findings of a wide range of genes showing biased dence for diploid control over morphological sperm traits and
gene expression across haploid spermatids in house mice and sperm total length in particular (usually largely determined by
the cynomolgus primate Macaca fascicularis, with the same the length of the flagellum) is convincing. An explicit test of
genes showing signs of directional selection in primate and diploid versus haploid control over the evolution of sperm
human populations [40], suggest that a rather large number length was performed in a study on Drosophila fruit fly lines
of genes could actually be involved in determining sperm phe- that had been selected for long and short sperm, respectively
notypes. Again, the function of these genes and their effect on [21]. Fl crosses between these lines were performed with the
sperm phenotype are currently unclear. prediction that if sperm length was at least partially deter-
Some indirect evidence for the potential of within- mined by the haploid genotype, crosses between the lines
ejaculate competition may come from the fact that many should show increased variation in sperm length compared
species with a high risk of sperm competition produce to the two parental strains. However, the offspring from crosses
dimorphic sperm, which vary not only in their morphology between the two lines showed intermediate lengths of sperm
and size, but also their genetic content [21,24]. Often one of and no increased variation compared to the parental lines. By
the two sperm morphotypes shows a partial or complete lack contrast, a recent study using a similar approach of crossing
of DNA (apyrene sperm), rendering them incapable of fertiliz- two Astyanax cavefish species to generate increased heterozyg-
ing eggs [66]. Apyrene sperm appear to have the sole purpose osity in the F1 offspring reported increased variation in sperm
of aiding sperm competition processes by occupying space swimming velocity [76]. Many possible biological mechanisms
inside the female sperm storage organs, and/or of protecting can explain the divergent observations between these two
sibling sperm from the hostile environment inside the female studies, and we can currently only speculate as to which
reproductive tract [67]. The lack of DNA in apyrene sperm are true.

results in the effective removal of any genetic conflict with