rate is male-biased [14]. Thus, the predisposition of fusions carolinensis, a species which retains the ancestral karyotype of — ~~
between certain autosomes and sex chromosomes to become Iguania [22]. Ss
fixed may arise if sex linkage or high heterozygosity are par- The dramatic karyotypic shift from 2n=34 to 2n=22 in S
ticularly beneficial for certain loci, or if these fusions are S. malachiticus and related species is interesting in the context of
the least deleterious. However, there are not many empirical the search for general patterns of karyotype and genome evol-
data to support this hypothesis, since similar fusions may ution in animals. It has been hypothesized that the possible
repeatedly occur in different lineages by coincidence. biological significance of such multiple chromosome fusions

To address the question of possible non-random could be the expansion of linkage groups under a selection for
involvement of certain linkage groups in fusions with sex decreased recombination [1,29]. In this scenario, the sex chromo-
chromosomes, it is important to compare syntenic maps of some-autosome fusions could become especially favourable,
different species which have experienced sex chromosome-— because sex chromosomes are characterized by decreased
autosome fusions in the evolution of their karyotypes. It is recombination rates. Besides the fact that parts of Y and W
known that in therian mammals and birds, the vertebrate chromosomes do not recombine at all, X and Z chromosomes
groups with most extensively studied chromosomal diversity, also have decreased recombination rates at the population level,
such fusions are rare and the sex chromosomes are among the because they recombine in only half the generations. It might
most conserved elements of the karyotype. In birds, this is be expected that in this case, other forces, such as changes in
because sex chromosome-autosome fusions are generally less global crossover rates, would also act to decrease recombination
frequent in ZZ/ZW systems than in XX/XY systems [14]. In in those species with multiple fusions. To check the hypothesis on
mammals, conservation of the sex chromosomes is most likely the connection between chromosome fusion and the evolution
caused by the mechanisms of dosage compensation: the inacti- of recombination patterns, we applied an immunocytological
vated X chromosome significantly alters gene expression in the approach to detect meiotic crossing over in synaptonemal com-
translocated autosomal fragments, and thus makes the majority plex (SC) spreads of S. malachiticus and Sceloporus variabilis
of such fusions deleterious [15,16]. Sex chromosome-autosome (a related species with the unaltered ancestral karyotype of
fusions are much more frequent in squamate reptiles [14]. The Phrynosomatidae, 21 =34) and analysed the recombination