lineages with independently evolved ZZ/ZW sex chromo- chromosomes. However, it seems that the earlier recognized
somes (i.e. birds, caenophidian snakes, a trionychid turtle, pattern of a dichotomy in gene dose regulatory mechanisms
and the Komodo dragon), it is present in only two (i.e. euther- between male and female heterogamety could be the result of

ian mammals and the green anole) out of five studied lineages limited sampling instead of a systematic difference.


The important remaining question is what (if anything) determination primarily relies on the number of copies of

besides male and female heterogamety determines whether the X chromosome (in correlation to autosomes ratio), but at
a lineage would evolve global dosage balance in the the same time they have global dosage compensation 3
expression of X- and Z-specific genes or not. We suggest that [66,67]. However, when inspected more closely, these cases =
it is related to the general mechanisms of sex determination, in fact do not contradict our hypothesis: dosage compensation 3°
which generally work in two ways: sex determination might in fruit flies and worms is triggered only later in development, “S
be controlled either by the copy number of X- or Z-linked and thus does not interfere with the earlier sex-determination =
loci per cell (i.e. gene dosage), or by a dominant W or Y mechanisms based on copy numbers [67,68], which illustrates S
locus [63]. We hypothesize that the dosage-dependent sex that detailed knowledge on molecular machinery and timing ©
determination can work only in the absence of global dosage of particular steps will often be needed for testing mechanistic =
balance between sexes, at least at the time of the expression hypothesis on the evolution of gene dose regulatory  §
of the sex-determining locus. By contrast, the sex determi- mechanisms. =
nation based on a dominant factor on Y and W =
chromosomes is compatible with both presence and lack of a Ethics. The processing of the biological material was carried out by __
dosage balance influencing chromosome-wide expression of accredited researchers and under the supervision and with the =
approval of the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Science, Charles =
