
female-determining role of the dm-w gene, we produced Two independently evolved sex-determining genes were com-
allopentaploid hybrids (LLSST, 5n=46 chromosomes) bined in a hybrid genetic background (X. laevis x X. tropicalis).
suppressing the extrusion of the second polar body in Their dominance/recessivity relationships were analysed in
X. laevis eggs fertilized with viable sperm from X. tropicalis allotriploid LST hybrids based on the correlation between
(cross ID: X67). As expected, most allopentaploid hybrids the gonadal differentiation and the sex chromosomes (or
inherited both the Z and W sex chromosomes from X. laevis sex-determining genes) present in each individual. The results
owing to the terminal location of the sex-specific region on show that dm-w dominates over any of the sex-determining
the sex chromosomes of X. laevis [41]. The correlation alleles in the X. tropicalis sex chromosomes. This effect could
between the sex of these hybrids and the sex chromosomes be explained by regulatory incompatibilities that cause prefer-
inherited from each parent (table 1) shows that the extra ential expression of X. laevis genes and/or transcriptional
copy of dmrt1 from X. tropicalis does not impair the dm-w’'s silencing of X. tropicalis sex-determining alleles, and not by
ability to trigger ovarian development. As in LST allotriploid a proper dominance effect. However, the fact that the
hybrids, in LLSST hybrids, the presence of the W chromo- W chromosome of X. tropicalis is also dominant in the
some from X. laevis is associated with ovarian development absence of the dim-w gene rules out transcriptional silencing
regardless of the sex chromosome inherited from X. tropicalis of X. tropicalis sex-determining alleles and points to the
(Y or Z) (electronic supplementary material, figure S5). dominant effect of the dm-w gene in also triggering female
The gonads of the only double recombinant with two Z differentiation in a hybrid background.

chromosomes from X. laevis were developing testes, while The dominance relationships between the sex-determin-
no double recombinant with two W chromosomes from ing genes of X. laevis and X. tropicalis observed in hybrids
X. Iaevis was obtained. In all cases, gonads from LLSST raise the question: what do the interactions between these
hybrids also lacked germ cells regardless of their sex chromo- genes look like when the genetic background is not hybrid
some constitution or phenotype (electronic supplementary but includes only one species? Since we only know the sex-
