characteristics of sex-linked regions, only minor attention environment or otherwise). The rate and position of recombi-
has been given to neutral models for the cessation of recom- nation are often determined by the phenotypic rather than
bination (but see [108]), an important requisite if we are to the genotypic sex. Therefore, sex chromosomes present in a
truly test adaptive hypotheses. Thus the question remains, sex-reversed individual may be subjected to the recombina-
are sex chromosomes indeed hotspots for the resolution of tion pattern typical of the opposite phenotypic sex.
sexual conflict in the genome? Perrin [109] concludes that According to the ‘fountain of youth’ hypothesis, this situation
there is little support for a significant role of sexual antagon- might produce newly recombined variants of sex chromo-
ism in the evolutionary dynamics of sex chromosomes in somes, potentially allowing purging of deleterious
ranid and hylid frogs. Comparative genomic studies demon- mutations from otherwise degenerating sex chromosomes — __
strate an extensive variability in the gene content of sex and thus keeping sex chromosomes poorly differentiated = =
chromosomes across independently evolved sex determi- [23-25]. Ry
nation systems, which are not particularly enriched with 3
genes controlling sexual dimorphism. In fact, the genes that =
survived in the non-recombining regions of highly differen- . sas g
tiated Y in mammals and sticklebacks and W chromosomes 5. Is the sex chromosome differentiation iat
in birds and snakes are mainly dosage-sensitive, and their idi j j i ~
loss would be lethal {110-114}, On the other hand, Song pathway truly unidirectional, ue leading from =
et al. [74] demonstrate that the sex-biased expression of sex- poorly to highly differentiated SEX s
linked genes occurred in parallel with the origin of indepen- 3S
dently evolved sex chromosomes in pipid frogs Functional chromasoines, oF even to the loss of Y ~
analyses seem necessary to uncover the contribution of this and W?
sex-biased expression to the resolution of sexual conflict, as The classical paradigm suggests that sex chromosomes will
it could also reflect mutations on the sex chromosome leading differentiate over time, leading to largely degraded Y and
to loss of expression in one sex. In conclusion, it seems that W chromosomes that eventually may even fully disappear.
sexual antagonism is either rare or hard to detect (present Although such a unidirectional pathway is described or