
Pw a » e
oe a Sg oo
ores et
— ow
<i yw

Figure 1. Environmental sex determination (ESD) has evolved repeatedly in multiple vertebrate lineages. Multiple sex determining systems can operate
simultaneously. Specific examples discussed in this review are indicated by an animal icon. We have broken the Squamates node (indicated by an asterisk)
into lizards and snakes to highlight the observation that while ESD has evolved multiple times in many lizard species, this phenomena has not yet been described
in snakes. Adapted from [1] and [2].

rise to, are variable [5-7]. Despite the fact that the process of cells (future oogonia or spermatogonia) and somatic cells,
morphogenesis varies, the adult structure of the ovary and which include supporting cells (granulosa/Sertoli) and ster-
testis is strikingly similar across vertebrates. While no single oidogenic cells (theca/Leydig). All three of these cell types
factor is responsible for activation of ovary or testis develop- are reported to be drivers of sex determination in different
ment in all vertebrate species, sex determination pathways vertebrate species (reviewed by [1]). While supporting cells
seem to converge on the same cohort of genetic regulators initiate sex determination in mammals [21-26], steroidogenic
that maintain and stabilize gonad fate. For example, in all pathways seem to be entry points in sex-reversing fishes
vertebrates investigated so far: SFl and WTI are involved in (reviewed by [27]), and the number of germ cells can drive
establishment of gonadal cells; SOX9 is the defining marker sex determination in zebrafish and medaka [28,29]. Because
of the supporting cells of testis cords; AMH inhibits the of the feedback regulatory loops that coordinate a single
development of the female reproductive tract; Aromatase ovary or testis gonadal fate, anything that biases the regulat-
(CYP19A1) is required for production of oestrogen from andro- ory loop in favour of one pathway over the other could be
gens; and FOXL2 is required for female-supporting cell considered the sex determining switch, regardless of the