snakes have generally poorly differentiated sex chromosomes among phylogenetically distant ESD lineages [83-85].
without notable accumulations of repeats [80] and at least in While the scenario of ancestral ESD could be considered
some cases non-homologous to those of caenophidian sex as a working hypothesis, the molecular machinery of ESD
chromosomes [41]. is still only poorly known (although the recent progress is
Previous studies argued that the Anolis chromosome 2 huge; [83-85]) and more direct test of the (non)homology of
(occasionally referred as the ‘lizard chromosome 2’) is com- ESD based on the comparison of molecular mechanisms
posed of a fragment orthologous with avian chromosome Z across amniote lineages is not possible yet. Notably, GSD-
and a small part of human X, suggesting that the multiple to-ESD transition was induced easily in the laboratory in
sex chromosomes of platypus and avian sex chromosomes the bearded dragon (Pogona vitticeps) [86], which suggests
may have been a part of the hypothetical ancestral amniote that such transitions could occur also in nature. Nevertheless,
chromosome, fission of which ‘gave rise to reptilian, mono- comparative evidence suggests that sex chromosomes in the
treme, and therian sex chromosomes’ (depicted in fig. 2 of lineage including the genus Pogona have been stable for
their study, [19, p. 99]). Apart from the fact that owing to the around 25 Myr [56,87-89]. Thus, transitions from GSD to
diversity in karyotypes it is difficult to decide what are ESD might not occur regularly in nature, even in such a line-
‘reptilian sex chromosomes’ and ‘lizard chromosomes’, as age with seemingly all the necessary conditions. To us a
pointed above, the part orthologous with the avian Z was viable alternative to the ancestral ESD in amniotes is ancestral
added to monotreme sex chromosomes only later [21] and GSD with unknown sex chromosomes followed by many turn-
was not present in the ancestral monotreme sex chromosomes. overs of sex chromosomes accompanied with a few,
The hypothesis on the ‘super-sex chromosome’ also does not probably quite ancient origins of ESD. Future research
address the underlying molecular mechanisms of sex determi- should try to differentiate between these alternatives. For
nation and their evolution. As far as we know, sex the purposes of the current paper, we will assume that sex
determination is mostly driven by one (or exceptionally, a chromosomes evolved independently within amniotes and
few) locus, e.g. by a sex-determining gene whose evolutionary we will take putative turnovers of sex chromosomes as
origin gave rise to sex chromosomes [81]. The molecular mech- independent origins.
