expression changes, including upregulation of the TGF-B these experiments, worms were exposed to the pathogenic bac-
receptor daf-7 in some chemosensory neurons of progeny, teria for three generations, then placed on a non-pathogenic
which subsequently avoid consuming PA14. The transmission food source for up to five generations before being exposed
of this behaviour, and the upregulation of daf-7, require the to the pathogenic bacteria again. These exposed animals dis-
piRNA argonaute PRG-1 and its downstream molecular com- played a significant increase in dauer formation, with up to
ponents, providing a link between this well-studied TEI 10% of their offspring forming dauer larvae. Dauer formation
pathway and a natural environmental trigger. This avoidance is an extremely effective avoidance strategy against bacterial
response also seems to require HRDE-1 and SET-32, as pathogens, as C. elegans are primarily colonized through their
mutant animals were defective in aversive pathogenic learning consumption of bacteria and the blocked oral cavity of
even in the PO generation [45]. This brief exposure has quite a dauers makes them unable to consume any bacteria [111].
low fatality rate in the PO generation, indicating that this is a Dauer arrest has the effect of delaying reproduction, which
newly established response, and not environmental selection may allow these worms to avoid the worst effects of the patho-
for worms predisposed to avoidance of the pathogen. In fact, gen. This response makes sense from an evolutionary
a recent study showed that a single PA14 non-coding RNA perspective, especially in a clonal species, as keeping a small

(ncRNA) is responsible for the transgenerational avoidance amount of the population free from pathogenic bacterial


contamination may allow the population to survive a particu-
larly virulent strain without the huge trade-off of delayed
reproduction for all members of the generation. Many com-
ponents of the RNAi pathway, including RDE-1, RDE-4, SID-
2, SID-3 and the WAGO proteins [111], are required for this
pathogen-induced diapause formation, showing another poss-
ible link between these well-studied pathways and an adaptive