to have two roles. gene actions [5,73]. For Waddington, the epigenetic land-
The first, as we have already seen, is to increase the prob- scape has a life of its own, an idea conceptualized in the
ability of occurrence of the ‘good’ mutations, those that pave notion of canalization [54,55,60,62].
the way to the new fitness peak. Because mutations remain Therefore, any mechanism that tends to increase the
random, the more a population is able to survive in a new robustness of a developmental path would immediately
environment, the more its allelic pool will get the opportunity favour genetic assimilation, as has been theoretically demon-
to be enriched with adaptive variants (see [66]). strated [74]. This is precisely where transgenerational
In the traditional ‘Simpsonian’ account, the Baldwin effect epigenetic inheritance could have a causal role: it would
is reduced to a ‘breathing space’ during which good respond more quickly than the genome in stabilizing /canaliz-
mutations can occur [68], and as such could be understood ing the new adaptive developmental path, paving the way for
as a minor process in adaptive evolution. Yet, I argue that the genetic architecture of the character to be reframed.
this classical account is an oversimplification, because it Whereas in the Baldwin effect, epigenetic inheritance would
says nothing about the fact that plastic adaptations create a have a selective-ecological impact (its evolutionary causality
new ecology and thereby new selective pressures that could is outside the organism), in genetic assimilation it would
causally produce genetic adaptions. After Simpson, it took have a mechanistic-developmental one (its evolutionary
time to fully acknowledge this dimension of the Baldwin causality is inside the organism).

effect and to conceptualize it in the terms of niche construc-
tion theory [47,68,69]. Nonetheless, a careful reading (4) From epimutations to mutations for molecular
suggests that the idea was already formulated in Baldwin's

writings, albeit often rather cryptically [46, p. 150]. In more reasons: a theoretical novelty

recent literature, it is not difficult to find much more explicit With the recent advances of the growing field of epigenetics,
instances [52, p. 128]. another possibility has been put forth: that epimutations