queens in which this target gene is heavily methylated, or In the light of these criticisms (and the criticisms of the criti- z
workers where it is not. Furthermore, we would expect cisms), we conclude that the jury is still out on whether DNA 3
methylation patterns of these differentially methylated methylation plays a role in Q-W caste differentiation. Resolving “S
genes to be correlated with caste and to be in a consistent this question will require whole-genome bisulfite sequencing of = =
direction regardless of genotype or colony origin; and (iii) DNA from queen and worker larvae with good sequencing S
DNA methylation should affect gene expression and/or depth and replication across colonies. If it can be shown that ©
gene splicing. That is, to show a causality, we would like to particular genes are consistently differentially methylated in a =
see that the differential methylation of the gene that we caste-specific manner, and this methylation affects gene 5
think has something to do with caste differentiation actually expression, then this will be conclusive evidence that methyl = =
changes expression in response to methylation. ation is involved in caste differentiation. If not, then we ©
How well does the evidence stack up against these predic- should discount a role for methylation in caste determination. Ss
tions? Libbrecht et al. [54] have argued that evidence for Given the currently equivocal role of methylation inQ-W =
caste differences in methylation patterns may be artefacts of caste determination, how can we interpret the fact that exper- 5!
insufficient biological replication. If queens and workers imental knockdown of the de novo methylation system in = 5
are unevenly sampled from different colonies, genetic back- honeybees reliably produces the queen phenotype in young =
grounds (e.g. patriline) or time points, this can give the larvae [43]? Dnmt genes probably have functions beyond = &
appearance of caste-specific methylation where none exists. In methylation because knockdown of dnmts is lethal in the ©
studies where there has been adequate biological replication milkweed bug where methylation is absent [66,67]. Thus, it S
(ie. replicated colonies are considered), it is often the case that is possible that dnmt3 is indeed involved in caste determi- %
genes are differentially methylated between workers and nation [43], whereas methylation is not. A decisive Ss
jueens in different directions in different colonies [51,60]. Strik- experiment might involve using RNA interference to knock =
ingly, many whole-genome sequencing studies that have down expression of dnmt3 in honeybee larvae, followed by
reported large differences in methylation between queens and whole-genome bisulfite sequencing and confirmation that
workers lacked biological replication [36,45] or pooled biological knockdown generates the queen phenotype. However, if
replicates [52]. By contrast, the only well-replicated study [46] dnmt3 plays a direct role in caste determination, unrelated