also found in nature (6). Example of nrpe7-induced TE-associated epivariation transmitted through at least one generation with wild-type (WT) RdDM [22] and also
found in nature as well as in ddm7, where it overlaps a reverting epivariant. NRPE7 encodes the largest subunit of RNA Pol-V, essential to RADM [23]. mC: level of
methylation (0-100%) of each cytosine along the two genomic regions shown. Sequence coverage (not shown) was used to verify that all accessions carry the
reference TE sequence at the loci of the differentially methylated regions (DMRs). (BS-seq obtained for natural accessions from the 1001 Genomes project [24], for
nrpel from Wendte et al. [25] and for epiRILs as well as WT and ddm7 parents from G. Bohl-Viallefond, L. De Oliveira, P. Baduel, V. Colot 2021, unpublished data).

patterns of parental differences. Results indicated that in RdDM mutant backgrounds [26]. A similar correlation is
approximately one-third of TE sequences that lost DNA also observed for hypomethylated TE-containing alleles that
methylation in the ddm1 parental line were inherited from were generated using a partial loss-of-function met] mutant
that parent in the hypomethylated state across at least eight parent [28]. However, additional mechanisms, including his-
(and presumably many more) generations, thus revealing a tone deacetylation, are also involved in the reversion to the
large potential for bona fide heritable epiallelic variation in methylated state at a subset of RDM targets [29] and most
A. thaliana (figure 1a). The other two-thirds of parentally targets can in fact recover DNA methylation when this path-
hypomethylated TE sequences regained wild-type methyl- way is compromised for just one generation [22]. These
ation progressively, within three to five generations [26], reverting TE-associated epivariants are preferentially found
and in either some or all of the epiRILs that contain the cor- within the pericentromeric, TE-rich regions of chromosomes
responding ddm1-derived chromosome intervals (figure 1b) and are characterized by relatively high levels of residual
[20,27]. This comprehensive survey thus revealed that epi- CG and CHG methylation, even when the sRNA-producing
variants at TE-containing alleles differ greatly in their arm (Pol-IV) of the RADM pathway is defective [22]. Consist-
properties, from a substantial proportion bearing the poten- ent with this last observation, targeted DNA methylation
tial for epiallelic inheritance to many being incapable of through the second arm of RdDM (Pol-V) can occur with a
stable transmission independently of their trigger. level of independence from sRNA production [30].

This differential potential for epiallelic inheritance was By contrast, a small number of RdDM targets located
found to result in large part from variations in RdDM target- preferentially within the gene-rich chromosome arms fail to