unique in that they are fundamentally tied to one’s own, or
one’s groups, reputation. Individuals have a strong motivation
to manage the positive impression they make on others
[51,52], and in order to do so, they need to accurately under-
stand how they are perceived by others. This reputational

3. Focus on correcti ng inaccurate motive might explain why meta-perceptions are more accurate
. in cooperative contexts [33,35] and among those in closer
meta-perceptions relationships [36]. While work on correcting inaccurate meta-
Integrating research on meta-cognitive inaccuracy into perceptions in intergroup relations is still nascent, we predict
our understanding of polarization provides two useful that the reputational nature of meta-perception makes individ-
insights for scholars developing interventions to correct inac- uals uniquely sensitive to corrective information in a way that
curate beliefs. The first insight is the need for componential first-order beliefs and factual beliefs may not.
analyses of inaccuracy. Researchers have long noted the uni- More broadly, we encourage polarization scholars to con-
variate measures of judgement accuracy can be misleading sider inaccurate meta-cognitive beliefs more centrality in their
[39,44,47,48] as they not only collapse across accuracy’s models of polarization, a call others have recently made as
multiple components, such as rank-order and mean-level accu- well [4]. Perhaps understandably, existing work on inaccurate
racy, they also fail to account for known biases that affect such political beliefs tends to focus on inaccurate factual beliefs
judgements, including normativity and stereotyping [49], and (e.g. is climate change real, was Barack Obama born in the
projection [50]. If we wish to uncover the mechanisms driving United States), yet interventions attempting to update such
misperceived polarization and use those mechanisms to inaccurate beliefs tend to have small effects on judgement
develop interventions to increase belief accuracy, we need accuracy and struggle to overcome entrenched beliefs (see
to have a precise picture of the nature of such inaccuracy. meta-analysis in [26]). While there is still much research to
The second insight is that informational interventions for be done, recent work suggests corrective interventions target-
