partisanship towards mainstream political parties and the do have an increasing number of studies on how to conceive
development of new electoral platforms that use the populist of and measure them as well as growing research showing
set of ideas to raise awareness of certain issues that are relevant their causes and consequences. How can this knowledge
to segments of the voting public who feel left behind [15]. Seen from political psychology be applied to the research on popu-
in this light, it is important to highlight that populist attitudes list attitudes? There are at least three ways in which research
and an anti-establishment political identity are two different on populist attitudes and conspiracy theories can be linked. =
phenomena. While the former should be thought of as latent First, as the pioneering study of Castanho Silva et al. [21] =
dispositions about the political world that tend to become acti- shows, even though the worldviews of conspiracy theories Ss
vated in certain contexts [16], the latter alludes to a social and populism are very similar—both present simple narra- — =:
category that—following the social identity approach—is tives that rely on a moral understanding that distinguishes = 5'
constructed by political actors to generate an in-group and between conspirators and victims—individual support for 5
out-group distinction through the repudiation of the established the latter seems to be much higher than for the former. The =
political parties. The interesting question is then about the reason for this probably lies in the fact that there are very  &
possible connections between these two different phenomena. different types of conspiracy beliefs, which attract specific
In theory, causality can follow two different and reinfor- constituencies, while the populist set of ideas is part and S
cing trajectories. On the one hand, negative partisanship parcel of the political culture of contemporary societies.
towards mainstream political parties can lead voters to Therefore, empirical studies should try to assess which Ss
endorse the populist set of ideas. On the other hand, individ- types of conspiracies are appealing to populist citizens, =
uals holding populist attitudes might translate their anger who in theory—as Castanho Silva et al. [21] argue—should
against the existing state of affairs into negative partisanship endorse conspiratorial beliefs that involve activities in the
towards mainstream political parties. To better grasp how exploitation of ‘the pure people’ by ‘the corrupt elite’, such
causality operates, the key variables that scholars should try as governmental malfeasance, malevolent global plots and
to examine are the origin of negative partisanship towards control of information. van Prooijen et al. [22] advance a simi-
mainstream political parties and the role that populist forces lar argument in their study of political extremism and belief
play in constructing it. Equally interesting is the study of in conspiracy theories, since they maintain that support for