the strengthening of stereotypic views of women and men brains typically comprise ‘mosaics’ of features, some in the
and of their appropriate social roles, and the justification of form more common in women than in men, and others in
gender hierarchy. In the next section, we consider what the form more common in men than in women [58,61]. Studies
might be the psychological underpinnings of the tendency in laboratory animals reveal that this ‘mixing’ of features
to interpret gender differences in a biological-essentialist way. within brains results from interactions between the genetic

and hormonal effects of sex and a range of environmental fac-
tors (e.g. rearing conditions, postnatal stress, see [62]). These

4, What drives a biol og ical-essentialist view of interactions may reverse, erase, create or exaggerate sex differ-
? ences in specific brain features, resulting in a multitude of
gender! combinations which do not fall into a ‘male’ and a ‘female’
The biological-essentialist lay theory of gender differences brain type [61,62]. In fact, a study of over 2100 human brains
builds on the existence of group-level sex differences in which tested the hypothesis that the typical female brain is
various domains, from levels of sex-related hormones (e.g. different from the typical male brain found instead that the
testosterone) and the structure and function of the brain, to brain architectures typical of women are also typical of men,
personality characteristics, cognitive and emotional abilities, and vice versa [63].
and behaviour. At the core of this theory are the assumptions Overlap and mosaic also characterize psychological
that these differences are predetermined and stable and that characteristics, even in domains showing large gender differ-
they add up to create two kinds of humans. In this section, ences. A review of 46 meta-analyses, covering thousands of
we will consider what might underlie such conceptions. We studies which documented gender differences across a wide

will first consider whether men and women indeed belong range of domains (e.g. cognitive abilities, aggression, helping

