taxon sampling, or true phylogenomic analyses using genome geny, and those genomes must be selected strategically to
assemblies that have high data volume but very low taxon represent the diverse clades within molluscs.
sampling. The analysis with the most comprehensive taxon Among molluscs, the reasons for the deep and unresolva-
sampling across all molluscs [6] recovered a topology that is ble conflict between different phylogenetic hypotheses are
largely unsupported by later transcriptomic analyses with apparently in part attributable to their extreme morphologi-
very limited taxon sampling (e.g. [7]). In the case of mol- cal disparity. Understanding the origins of this disparity is
luscs, there are certain well-resolved relationships of connected to understanding molluscan genomes; however,
proximity, such as a close relationship between the chitons molluscan genomes have proven to be challenging on many
(Polyplacophora) and aplacophoran molluscs [8], but it is different levels. There are certainly other taxa that are also
unclear whether any of the conflicting phylogenies for complicated, in terms of morphological variation and geno-
total-group Mollusca represent a reliable reconstruction of mics, so this is not a feature unique to this phylum. Some
evolutionary history [5]. More intensive work within specific aspects of the complexity that confound current studies of
clades of molluscs, and more broadly in other organismal mollusc genomes may in fact enable us to understand the
groups, has repeatedly reaffirmed that insufficient taxon very nature of molluscan diversification.
sampling can lead to inaccurate phylogenetic reconstruction, Within the eight individual classes, meanwhile, substan-
especially for complex groups [9]. The issues of molluscan tial progress in the last decade has established reasonably
phylogeny cannot therefore be solved by waiting for a new robust phylogenetic frameworks for chitons, aplacophorans,
method or technology, and it is not a simple problem of con- cephalopods, bivalves and many gastropod groups as well
flict between traditional and revised ideas of phylogenetic as total-group Gastropoda (e.g. [13-16]). The existing knowl-
relationships. edge of molluscan phylogeny within each class can be used
There is hope that whole-genome phylogenomics will to suggest an ideal set of taxa for further genome projects
provide the decisive tool that will produce a confident (see also [5]), that would rapidly lead to a more informative
resolution of pan-molluscan branching patterns, but whole- phylogenomic approach for the community. As part of a
genome assemblies are currently too sparse to provide any strategy to eventually resolve molluscan phylogeny, we con-
meaningful analysis [10]. Relatively few molluscs have been sider the potential barriers to producing new genome