evant when passing from thinking about subjective self- and variation of political ideology around the globe (e.g. the


possibility to distinguish between the social versus economic and showed higher national parochialism around the globe.

dimension), previous cross-cultural research finds evidence These differences were particularly pronounced in nations
for the recurrence of a continuum from left to right across cul- characterized by higher wealth, rule of law and government 3
ture [49]. Second, some aspect of the design (e.g. online effectiveness. Altogether, these results contribute to our z
interactions) may contribute to the relatively small variation understanding of the generalizability and variability of =
in the relation between political ideology and cooperation ideological behaviour around the globe. 3
across nations. Third, it is possible that the null effects of politi- =
cal ideology in some nations might become significant when Ethics. The research was approved by the Massey University Human S
considering larger samples. In fact, the power analysis for Ethics Committee, application number: 4000019960 and by the 5
this study was conducted to detect an effect size for national board for Ethical Questions in Science of the University of Innsbruck, <
parochialism, and not for any (potentially smaller) effects of application number 37/2018. 2
Data accessibility. This article has no additional data. a

ideology. That said, in this study, we presented empirical evi- =

d fi I f : ith dardized Authors’ contributions. A-R., M.S., J.H.L. and D.B. conceived of and Pal
ence from a large set of nations, with standardize designed the study, A.R. carried out the statistical analyses. A.R.

instructions across nations, and large samples stratified by and D.B. wrote the paper, M.S. and J.H.L. provided feedback on = ~
age, gender and income. Moreover, our results were consistent the draft. All authors gave final approval for publication and agree =
across overlapping constructs (cooperation and identification to be held accountable for the work performed therein. =