and gastropods [13,26]. Accordingly, no single mollusc profile species in the context of the study of molluscan develop- 3
species has come to dominate the subject area. A diversity ment [37] (alongside Tritia (Ilyanassa) obsoleta, table 1). While the =
of models will ultimately be required to draw general original research on the species was used to create the cell lines = “~
conclusions and identify common patterns. age nomenclature of spiral cleavage [101], recent work has
An early survey of genes involved in molluscan shell for- produced high-resolution cell lineage fate maps, described the
mation was based on an analysis of the oyster genome [27]. morphogenetic events during gastrulation, and provided
Because some of these shell proteins constitute important important insight into the molecular basis of early development
components of the extracellular matrix across metazoans, [102-104]. Notably, C. fornicata was also the first molluscan
Zhang et al. [27] suggested that the organic matrix of the species in which CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing was demon-
shell might share key similarities—but nevertheless. still strated [105]. Most recently, the sister taxon the black-foot snail
harbours some major differences—with the connective Crepidula atrasolea has come to the fore as a complementary
tissue of other animals. Wollesen et al. [96] made an analo- model because it has a short life cycle and is easy to rear through
gous point with respect to the fact that characteristic brain successive generations in closed aquaria [106,107]. A further
regionalization genes in other animal lineages are expressed benefit is that the rearing methods that are being used are
in the mantle of molluscs during development, suggesting open source and economical and may thus be easily applied
that brain regionalization genes might have been co-opted to other species [106]. Even so, it is not clear at this point whether
into the shell patterning in molluscs. Other important find- C. atrasolea will come to be used by many research groups;
ings include the fact that a large proportion of secreted whether this happens is likely dependent upon ease of culture
proteins contain simple repetitive motifs, which might and the tools that are made available.
further promote the evolvability of the mantle secretome [13].
Nonetheless, despite substantial progress, considerable
caution is required in making general inferences on biominer- 9. Octopus and other cephalopods: intelligence,
alization. In particular, most of the genomic studies on A +
biomineralization to date have involved either bivalves adaptive camouflage, VISION, development
(Crassostrea, Pinctada oysters, and Mytilus mussels) or gastro- Cephalopods show several remarkable features that dis-