gastropod Biomphalaria glabrata mitogenome (NC_005439) [131-133] and MITOS [136]. The latter software performs de
was unusually long, fully overlapping with trnT, in contrast novo annotation of protein-encoding genes by sequence simi- Ss
with the reported genes in the gastropods Cepaea nemoralis larity and secondary structure predictions of both rRNA and a
(NC_001816) and Albinaria caerulea (NC_001761). Indepen- tRNA. MITOS reports annotation results in the standardized
dently determined EST data (AA547758) showed the format that supports the accepted, consistent nomenclature of
cDNA for the C-terminus of nad4 to end before the down- mitochondrial genes. Updates (MITOS2 is available at
stream trnT gene, more consistent with those of the other http: //mitos2.bioinf.uni-leipzig.de/index.py) have improved
gastropods, and to terminate on a single T nucleotide that the prediction accuracy but the results still require manual
was extended by polyadenylation to form a TAA stop curation.
codon [14]. Alternative start codons, the potential for incomplete stop

Based on genome sequence alone, inferring the exact codons and molluscan-specific tRNA structures continue to
boundaries of rRNA genes is especially difficult. In fact, in challenge automated annotation. Some possible challenges
most cases, there is simply the presumption that the rRNA for annotation are shown in figure 2, using atp8 from gastropod
gene extends to the boundary of the flanking genes, with mitogenomes as an example. atp8 is the shortest protein-coding
this moderated by the extent of similarity matching to hom- gene in mitogenomes and relatively variable among gastropod
ologous genes of other organisms. species, often not detected by BLAST and thus also not recog-

The genes for tRNAs diverge in sequence rapidly and are nized by MITOS. Additionally, atp8 of several gastropod
most commonly found by identifying potential secondary species employs an alternative start codon, like ATT that nor-
structures with a set of typical features [128-130]. Some lineages mally encodes for an I (isoleucine), serving as start codon
are known to have aberrant structures with some of the arms (specifying formyl-methionine) only at the initiation of protein
diminished or even missing, complicating this inference. translation. Automated gene finding and inexperienced anno-

The rise of next-generation sequencing (NGS) has been a tators may fail to recognize ATT as a true start, choosing an