tural ecosystem services identified, there is less attention to soil have formed the basis of cultural and national identities.
physical recreation and tourism specifically built around the The phrase ‘native soil’ often describes basic characteristics of = 7
soil. Although spectators may not see the direct connection, a society; for example, the phrase xiangtu in Chinese combines -5
many sporting experiences rely heavily on well-managed the words for countryside and earth to present a metaphor for =
soils, affecting everything from ball rebound on clay tennis China’s rural and agrarian roots [50]. The concept of ‘blood 5
courts and cricket pitches to drainage of football fields [38], and soil’ originating in nineteenth-century Germany has much -
demonstrating that soil is often a taken-for-granted background darker meanings, used to mythologize rural lives, racial purity =U,
to many important and enjoyable human experiences. Beyond a and connections to homeland, a metaphor later adopted by R
few designated ‘geoparks’ that have unique soil types, such as other genocidal regimes [51]. Ethnic divisions and conflicts S
bogs and peats in Scotland that are well-integrated into tourist among self-described ‘sons of the soil’ and those perceived as &
visits and hikes [39], or the practice of ‘mudlarking’, exploring outsiders have led to numerous atrocities in history [52]. Ss
sedimented riverbanks or other places for traces of antiquities, The development of ethics surrounding soil isa far more &
there is little formal recreation around the soil. In fact, the phys- positive way in which human identity has been linked to z
ical benefits that people may receive from recreating as tourists caring for the earth. For example, Aldo Leopold’s land ethic
can result in soil compaction and damage, as is reported in described a type of reciprocal relationship with soil, in
some heavily visited sites [40]. which care for the land is part of caring for people [53].

Studies have shown that relations with soil can be important
in shaping many farmers’ identities; for example, farmers’

(b) Psychological experiences sense of place can influence how they address stewardship
The mental health benefits from experiencing nature, ranging of their soils [54], while social cohesion can be shaped by jud-
from urban green spaces to practices known as ‘forest bathing’, gements about how other farmers manage soil [55]. Attention
have been widely recognized [41,42]. Without soil such to how values and identities shape relations to soil are par-
benefits would not be possible, but much of the literature is ticularly useful because they can impact whether farmers