perhaps, this suggestion was consistent with the putative corre-
lation between population and phoneme inventory size, given
that human populations in places like the Americas tend to be
smaller than those in Africa. Yet, the association between

2. Consonants

phoneme inventory size and population did not hold once A key factor influencing the frequency of the consonants used
language relatedness was controlled for, at least in one follow- in speech is the biomechanical ease associated with their
up study [12]. Additionally, scholars have offered other articulation [23]. It is unclear how much of a role the ease
criticisms of Atkinson’s hypothesis [13,14]. Some other work of articulation plays, particularly given that other factors
has suggested that a weak correlation between sound-inventory are also at work in shaping phonetic and phonological ten-
size and population may in fact exist [15]. Assuming this is a dencies, including needs for perceptual discriminability and
meaningful correlation, one possible motivation that has been efficiency. Nevertheless, the most common consonants in
presented for it is as follows: larger populations could place the world’s languages tend to be easy to produce. Some of
simplifying pressures on morphologies, more commonly yield- these sounds are alveolar consonants like [n] and [t], which
ing shorter words with modest or no affixation [16,17]. The require the relatively miniscule tip of the tongue to touch
reliance on shorter stems could generate pressures for larger the alveolar ridge via a small movement, in contrast with
phoneme inventories, in order to more effectively disambiguate harder-to-produce sounds requiring, for instance, movement
words earlier during their production [16, p. 113; 18]. Recent of the larger tongue root towards the back of the pharyngeal
work, based on a newly constructed database of reconstructed wall. The former sounds are easy to make and frequently
sound inventories for proto languages, does observe that some occur in syllables babbled by children across populations,

ancient inventories tend towards fewer consonants than their while the latter sounds do not [24]. Other consonants that
