Our argument starts from the proposal that pantomime borates such a view. Several studies have attested that
can be framed within the Platform of Trust (PoT; [68,69]), an subjects with ASD have difficulties in conversational
assumption that Wacewicz & Zywiczynski [70] consider a exchanges (e.g. [75-77]) and that these difficulties negatively
‘deep’ design feature of language. In their opinion, human affect their persuasive abilities [78]. Specifically, it has been
communication is characterizable in terms of ‘information shown that individuals with ASD have problems in counter-
donation’: unlike other animals, humans can flip ‘the default arguing: their communicative exchanges tend to get stuck
setting from expecting manipulation to expecting honesty’ with no possibility of moving forward [79, p. 20]. Turn-
[70, p. 170]. Referring to information donation means referring taking impairments in subjects with ASD can be interpreted
to an ‘informative altruistic act’ (informing others of things in terms of inabilities to hold and defend their point of
even when informers themselves have no personal interest in view in conversation: the exchange of roles of turn-taking
the information) which, according to some models of language [71,80] is the surface of a deeper phenomenon that can be
evolution [52], distinguishes human communication from an interpreted within communicative exchanges governed by
animal form of communication. This fact places communi- the logic of diverging points of view. In a conversational scen-
cation within the broader cooperative character of human ario of this kind, it has to be recognized that competition
nature [71]. Moreover, interpreting communication as an plays a major role in human communication. This does not
altruistic act within the PoT tends to consider pantomime in mean denying that receivers are predisposed to trust the
a perspective strongly tied to the information model of message; nor denying that in conversation interlocutors
communication. According to the authors, are engaged in collaborative exchanges. It means that

competition plays as important a role in communication as

the minimal requirements for successful pantomimic communi- . .
cooperation does. These observations allow us to make

cation (...) need to be complemented by a social cognitive trait