show a contrast between highly restricted and almost infi- For languages that do have them, the history of such low-
nitely productive systems. Typological inquiries reveal limit number words is astonishingly deep. Indo-European,
numerous peculiarities and a tangled mix of coexisting Bantu, Austronesian and Pama-Nyungan languages have all
number-forming patterns for varying quantities as numbers been shown to preserve cognate forms of low-number words
get larger. Thus, variation in number word patterns is not that have stubbornly lingered around for tens of thousands
merely a foible of languages with few number words; of years of linguistic evolution [7,17].
variation can be found at every step. Lexical replacement rates vary enormously among words
Some languages have multiple counting systems that and among languages. In words that linguists believe to be
coexist side by side, depending on what is being counted. the least rapidly changing within a given language, namely
In the Austronesian language of Takuu, different number words that designate basic vocabulary terms, like foot, green,
words are used to count humans (4 = takahaa), fish (4 = haa), man, dirty, husband, wife, mother, and including numbers one
canoes (4 = tauvakahaa), length of rope or wood (4 = lohahaaa), through to five—a collection of words termed the Swadesh
money (4 = ha) and coconuts or stones (4 = ruaoa) [20]. In fact, List (named after Morris Swadesh, who formulated various
the system is even more complex, because money terms are such lists)—rates of lexical replacement can still vary between
counted in units of 10 cents, and coconuts and stones are word-forms as much as 100-fold [7, p. 8]. But number words
counted in units of two up to quantities of 10, beyond stand out as being among the most conservatively preserved
which individual items can be counted (say, 11 coconuts). word-forms even in such basic vocabulary lists [7]. Remark-
These counting words combine the numeral proper with a ably, in the Indo-European language family, a single cognate
numeral classifier, and Takuu is by no means alone in set can be traced throughout its entire history, indicating aston-
using such a system (see [21] for further examples). Seen ishing agreement across speakers and time [7]. Put another
with European eyes, wherein higher-number words can be way, speakers of Indo-European languages have preserved
used universally to count any object, be it fish, humans or ancestral forms for low-limit numbers with extreme fidelity
coconuts, it might be tempting to regard such object specificity over thousands of years of language change.
found in languages like Takuu as inefficient and primitive, Low-limit numbers are acquired early in life, reminiscent
betraying a less sophisticated understanding of number con- of Ernst Haeckel’s nineteenth century catch phrase ontogeny