selection is neither concerned with inherent linguistic proper- arrives at the conclusion that number concepts are not privi-
ties (of the sort, short words are preferred), nor explained in leged, in other words, that ‘there is no neat relationship
terms of matching frequencies of use (of the type, use between some blueprint of our cerebral architecture and the
the same proportional frequencies of word-form X as others edifice of numerical language constructed in a given culture’
do). Instead, positive frequency dependence selection [35, p. 13].
denotes a bias that makes speakers disproportionally likely Further support for this conclusion comes from a clinical
to use a word (say the number fwo) that most other speakers study which shows that it is possible for aphasia patients to
use. This bias grants an increasing advantage to those forms lose their ability to use number words without losing other
that are used productively and provides a mechanism parts of the language system [36]. Typology also shows that
to explain how a shared vocabulary can spontaneously self- it is similarly possible for a language to lose number words
organize and then be maintained for centuries or even once acquired, for instance the ancestral number 4 seems
millennia, despite new words continually entering the lexi- to have been lost in some languages of the Australian
con. The fact that frequency distribution curves of number Pama-Nyungan family [37, pp. 5-6].
words are best captured by positive frequency dependence One characteristic that sets the Pama-Nyungan languages

selection suggests that there is more going on than just apart from the Indo-European ones with regard to number


systems is the fact that the former language family has pri-
marily languages with a restricted number system. So it
appears that both higher numbers behave differently from
low numbers, and languages with productive and consistent
higher numbers tend to behave differently from those with
restricted systems. As we progress from smaller quantities
towards larger quantities, the morphological patterns