explain these results by highlighting the iconic potential of (ยง3e) rely on bodily visual signs that are holistic and highly =
bodily visual communication, whereby highly iconic visual iconic. Together, these findings suggest that communication
signs (cf. primary iconicity) are able to transmit referential that emerges at the bootstrapping stage when language is
information even in the absence of any shared communica- blocked has all the major characteristics of pantomime (see
tive conventions (cf. self-sufficiency). Once a mutual ยง2c), but only if a number of caveats are addressed.
understanding has been achieved, the pressure to communi- Most importantly, pantomimic scenarios derived from
cate through iconic signs diminishes. Instead, there is a drive mimesis theory (but see also [10]) emphasize that first signs
to refine the sign system, making it more efficient [128]. should exhibit high degrees of primary iconicity, allowing

With regard to the problem of pantomimic fossils, exper- them to transfer information in the absence of any communica-
imental research provides two valuable insights. First, tive conventions (self-sufficiency). The results of many
modern humans are able to communicate by means of impro- experimental studies corroborate this view, but, as we noted,
vised bodily visual signs with relative ease, and second, such an interpretation of them is mitigated by the fact that
repeated communication through the use of such signs pro- emerging signs are only self-sufficient to the degree that they
motes their simplification (leading to a gradual decrease of are distinguishable from other items in a closed meaning
their iconic character) and conventionalization. At the initial space provided by the experimenters. There is also evidence
stage, signs meet all the major characteristics of pantomime: that primary iconicity plays an important role in bootstrapping
they are improvised and holistic bodily visual forms of com- early signs in emerging signed languages. Although there are
munication capable of expressing meanings that are not many examples of early signs whose status as primary-iconic
limited to selected semantic domains and the here-and-now. is problematic, we would like to draw attention to the fact

However, some of these characteristics should be inter- that pantomime is expected in the very first signs that appear
preted with caution, mainly owing to the limitations of in the process of bootstrapping. In village signed languages,
experimental designs. Typically, experiments use a closed such as ABSL, even the earliest recorded signs may already
meaning space, and as a result, they do not show, at least have undergone some conventionalization, whereas in the