by ship noise, seismic surveys and naval sonar. In particular,

(b) Emperor penguins: diving physiology and the

the aetiology of the beaked whale strandings associated with aerobic dive limit
naval sonar exercises may be ultimately related to changes The aerobic dive limit (ADL, dive duration associated with
in heart rate. It has been suggested that (i) changes in dive the onset of post-dive blood lactate accumulation) is a most
behaviour and heart rate may alter nitrogen uptake and fundamental concept to the interpretation of the diving
distribution, predisposing the whales to decompression sick- physiology and ecology of marine mammals and seabirds
ness [100], and (ii) stress-induced changes in dive behaviour [104-106]. The physiological responses that underlie the
may lead to arrhythmias (irregular heart rate patterns) and ADL have been most thoroughly investigated in emperor
subsequent cardiovascular collapse [47]. penguins diving at an isolated hole on the sea ice of
However, recording heart rate in wild, freely diving ceta- McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. In fact, among all marine mam-
ceans has been difficult because (i) retrieving biologgers is mals and seabirds, the emperor penguin is the only species in
primarily limited to recovering devices that have come off which oxygen levels in the respiratory, blood and muscle
at sea; and (ii) attachment of biologgers has always been oxygen stores have been monitored during spontaneous,
more difficult in cetaceans than in pinnipeds or seabirds. unrestrained free dives.
Initially, attachment of heart rate biologgers was facilitated Although the predominant depths of these dives at the iso-
in pinnipeds by application of epoxy glues to fur, and, lated dive hole (less than 100 m) are at the shallow end of the
in seabirds using glue and cable ties to feathers, and even emperor penguin’s dive spectrum (maximum depth at sea,
by implantation. In cetaceans, flipper straps, neoprene stretch 563 m), dive durations of 5-10 min cover the common range
harnesses and, eventually, suction cups allowed investi- of dives at sea [68,77,78,107,108]. Furthermore, an ADL of
gations in trained animals. The continued refinement of 5.6 min has been documented with actual measurements of
suction cup technology for biologger attachment and embed- post-dive blood lactate concentrations at the isolated dive
ding ECG electrodes has now allowed examination of heart hole [109]. The spontaneous dives of these penguins under