prey detection, localization and capture. increased neuronal metabolic demand in active brain regions,
Although animals can perform some tasks when exper- e.g. in the occipital cortex during a visual task. As cortical
imentally restricted to only one sensory system [15], and activation is proximally measured through haemodynamic
some behavioural characteristics are suggestive of task-based and oxygenation changes, other physiological processes
dominance of a particular sensory pathway (e.g. changing bear- such as cardiac function, changes in vascular tone, respiration
ing in response to prey-derived bioluminescence [16]), under and changes in blood oxygen saturation are captured by
natural conditions most behaviours are based on multimodal fNIRS. Heart rate, respiration, tissue-specific perfusion
convergence of input from several senses [3]. In addition, infor- changes, tissue-specific oxygenation changes, arterial blood ==
mation from different senses may change in importance oxygenation and blood pressure changes are all physiological >
relative to other senses depending on the context. Our under- signals available from raw fNIRS data [23]. While these phys-
standing of which senses animals rely upon to complete iological signals are generally accounted for and removed to =:
tasks in the wild (such as locating prey or detecting and determine the underlying cortical activation responses inneu- 5!
fleeing danger) is complicated by the fact that sensing occurs roimaging studies, these signals are important in =
in a spatially, temporally and contextually heterogeneous bioenergetics research [24] and for tracking physiological =
environment, in which information masking and central atten- responses to environmental covariates and anthropogenic dis- = &
tional factors, such as a focus on finding prey or detecting a turbance [25]. The combination of physiological and cortical =
predator, can affect how even simple stimuli are detected activation data make fNIRS a potentially powerful tool, par- >
and processed [17]. Given the complexity of natural environ- ticularly if these measurements could be integrated into s
ments and the dynamic interactions that free-ranging animals existing behavioural and environmental data logging plat- Ss
must process, it is important to measure sensory activation forms, to measure responses to external stimuli as animals p
under naturalistic conditions. An ability to understand multi- interact with their environment in the wild.
sensory perception, specifically sensory cortical activation, Although fNIRS has been used in a small number of terres-
synchronously with behaviour and physiological parameters trial, domestic species (such as sheep and dogs) in controlled
such as heart rate, is key to understanding contextual laboratory settings [26-30], it has not, to our knowledge,
decision-making in the wild. been used to study the sensory biology of wild animals. This