the midst of a pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus = &

7. Future perspectives (antimicrobial resistance which is thought to have originated in bats, potentially cross- =
. . ing to humans via an intermediary mammalian species—it is >!
and Zoonotic infections) important to raise the use of biosensor technologies for moni- s
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is typically seen as a problem toring virus transfer and mutation between wild animals. Ss
affecting only humans with its emergence and spread having Monitoring will be particularly important in animals that S
potentially dire consequences for the global population. To are responsible for a large number of zoonotic infections
provide further context, if left unaddressed, by 2050 AMR (e.g. birds and bats) with technologies which can fill this
is expected to account for more deaths per year than cancer space offering the ability to quickly pinpoint and hopefully
and diabetes combined. The phenomenon of AMR is driven supress the development of viral strains with pandemic-caus-
by many factors which include: inappropriate prescriptions, ing potential. Indeed, the power and scale of existing
the fact that a proportion of countries allow over the counter structured sampling of zoonoses in wild animals (e.g. from
purchasing in pharmacies, shortages of new antimicrobials, faeces from bat roosts) would benefit enormously, and
the overuse of antibiotics in agriculture and _ ineffective rapidly, from such technology [84].
environmental controls (particularly in manufacture and dis- Work dedicated to the detection of viral infections of the
posal) which facilitate accumulation in the environment. To human population includes detection of Ebola virus [85]
try and alleviate some of the present and predicted problems, using an array of nano-antennae. Ebola is a serious and
governments are trying to stimulate innovation through recurring threat to human health with regular outbreaks
encouraging the development of new antimicrobial com- necessitating the development of low cost, simple to use and
pounds, encouraging good antibiotic stewardship and innovative diagnostic technologies. Another viral infection
stimulating the development of new diagnostic tests in the which gained large amounts of attention in recent years is
hope that the technology will reach a performance level Zika, the enzoonotic virus with a life cycle involving monkeys
where antibiotic prescriptions can be made contingent on a and mosquitoes. Here, sensor technologies have been devel-
confirmatory test. Technological advances in the area of oped to detect live virus using an imprinted sensor surface