external auditory input: sedge warblers (Acrocephalus schoeno- bat, isolation call syllables, used to solicit maternal care, are
baenus) [98] and grey catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) [99]. integrated into babbling sequences [60,61]. It has been
Unfortunately, vocal ontogeny has not been described for argued that human infants signal well-being by babbling
these birds as far as we know, but may shed light on the relation both in face-to-face interaction and when potential caregivers
between vocal learning and babbling. are out of sight [17]. Also in marmosets, babbling has been
Whether or not babbling appeared before or after VPL in interpreted as being used to attract attention from parents
evolution may be informed by patterns of appearance, loss and alloparents [71]. In these cases, the same kinds of vocaliza-
and renewed appearance of VPL. Multiple occasions of loss tions are also produced in the absence of any social context, a
and reappearance of singing across evolution have been crucial criterion for babbling. In songbirds, a social function
reported in hummingbirds [97]. This provides an excellent such as attention seeking has not explicitly been reported,
opportunity to study the evolutionary order of babbling and although direct consideration of the possibility of social signal-
vocal learning. The finding that calls are often present in bab- ling may deserve attention in future songbird research.
bling along with the fact that some species show vocal However, there appears to be no doubt there is a role for
learning of calls may provide support for the idea that vocal social interaction in the form of social feedback from parents,
learning begins in evolution with call learning, which may feedback that contributes to (but is not an absolute requirement
itself be an aspect of babbling. More research is clearly for) shaping vocalization in both songbirds and humans [2].

needed on evolutionary history in various species, with and
without babbling, and with and without VPL, in order to

assess the possibility that babbling is required for VPL. (e) Future directions for research, includi g

computational tests of babbling and VPL

(d) Potential functions of babbling Research on babbling and VPL has been extensive, and yet