the overuse of antibiotics in agriculture and _ ineffective rapidly, from such technology [84].
environmental controls (particularly in manufacture and dis- Work dedicated to the detection of viral infections of the
posal) which facilitate accumulation in the environment. To human population includes detection of Ebola virus [85]
try and alleviate some of the present and predicted problems, using an array of nano-antennae. Ebola is a serious and
governments are trying to stimulate innovation through recurring threat to human health with regular outbreaks
encouraging the development of new antimicrobial com- necessitating the development of low cost, simple to use and
pounds, encouraging good antibiotic stewardship and innovative diagnostic technologies. Another viral infection
stimulating the development of new diagnostic tests in the which gained large amounts of attention in recent years is
hope that the technology will reach a performance level Zika, the enzoonotic virus with a life cycle involving monkeys
where antibiotic prescriptions can be made contingent on a and mosquitoes. Here, sensor technologies have been devel-
confirmatory test. Technological advances in the area of oped to detect live virus using an imprinted sensor surface
AMR diagnostics have the general aim of producing low [86], but also crucially to profile blood for the presence of
cost, sub half-hour testing technologies. Since AMR is in fact Zika antibodies [87] in order to map spread within commu-
not just a human problem (due to the widespread prevalence nities and regions. The prospect of pandemics, particularly
of residual antibiotics in the environment) drug resistant infec- those of an avian origin and especially respiratory pathogens,
tions will become an increasing problem for free-living and has long concerned biosensor scientists [88] and the response
farm animals and the new diagnostic tests which are designed to the need for diagnostic devices for COVID-19 has seen,
to be low cost and simple to use will enhance the study of alongside widespread adoption and upscaling of traditional
AMR in populations of wild animals and improve antibiotic methods, the emergence of novel approaches such as a field-
stewardship in the veterinary sector. Biosensor technology effect transistor-based system [89] for COVID detection in
could also be used in the future in managed (agriculture and nasopharyngeal swabs. As the COVID-19 pandemic con-
aquaculture) systems as a surveillance technology to proac- tinues, innovative biosensor solutions are emerging, for
tively detect infections before antibiotic treatment is given, example application of the synthetic biology CRISPR-Cas
which may help to reduce the total use of antibiotics. system to SARS-CoV-2 detection [90] and single tube reverse
Recent developments in the field of diagnostic tests for transcription loop mediated isothermal amplification (RT-