of genetic distance with control for body size: prediction of genetic distance from nine acoustic features and body mass (x-axis) in the training set and the combined
set of passerine songs and non-passerines (see key, error bars: s.e.m.). (Online version in colour.)

phylogenetic influences is more challenging. Surprisingly, mechanisms themselves, that is on the neural circuitry
however, phylogenetic signal was strong and significant for pas- involved in selecting, imitating and producing vocalizations.
serine songs, but not calls, in the random dataset. This clearly This last possibility is particularly intriguing, and relevant
goes against our expectation that songs, with a strong learned for our dataset, given that the oscine syrinx, despite some lim-
component, would exhibit weaker phylogenetic influences ited variation [43], is a highly conservative structure, with its
compared with (mostly unlearned) calls and undoubtedly morphology shared by all of the nearly 4000 songbird species
deserves further investigation with a larger selection of species. [40,44,45]. There is nonetheless huge variation in song acoustic
The persistence of phylogenetic signal even in learned voca- structure among songbirds, and passerine mimics (mocking-
lizations clearly suggests that vocal learning is compatible with birds, reed warblers, starlings or lyrebirds) can accurately
genetic determination of and/or genetic constraints upon voca- copy songs of many species. Together, these facts suggest
lization structure, as previously shown for a clade of vocal that an important source of genetic canalization in passerine
learning parrots [19]. Although our analyses cannot isolate song, reflected in the phylogenetic signal documented in the
any specific genetic factors, three possible explanations seem current study, concerns the wiring of the learning mechanism
likely. First, broad morphological constraints (e.g. overall body itself, rather than vocal morphology. This might be reflected in
size) might play a role in constraining some specific acoustic the details of the innate ‘sound template’ used by young birds
features, such as fundamental frequency (fo) or dominant fre- to select their tutor(s) [46,47], and/or the ‘song grammar’ or
quency, owing to allometric constraints on the size of vocal syntax used to combine learned elements into higher order pat-
organs. Second, genetic factors may constrain specific morpho- terns [48-50]. This may also influence the acquisition and
logical features relevant to vocalization, such as details of modification of song structure in adults, since it is now clear
syringeal morphology or of vocal tract structure [36-38]. that open-ended song learners exhibit out-of-season reductions
Given the considerable well-known variability in syringeal anat- in song nuclei combined with adult neurogenesis, presumed to
omy across birds, we might expect acoustic measures tightly play animportant role during learning of new songs [51,52], and