learning. However, as vocal learning may already have been and differences to the songbird system. Thereafter, I discuss = =
present in the common ancestor of all songbirds, all variations what can be learned from the distribution of vocal learning = >
among songbirds might be considered variations on a single among bird groups, characterize the different forms of learn-
theme. Therefore, if we want to understand how and ing observed and discuss what the findings imply about the =
why vocal production learning evolved, the behavioural and evolution of vocal learning. =
neural mechanisms underlying it, and how it compares to a
vocal learning in mammals, including humans, we need to =
examine its manifestation in other groups in which it evolved (a) Suboscines =
independently and compare the characteristics of the learning The order of Passeriformes contains three suborders (figure 2a): =
process among these groups. There is, however, a noticeable the basal clade of New Zealand wrens, the oscine songbirds, >
contrast between our detailed knowledge about songbird and the suboscines. No studies have been done on the four s
song learning and knowledge on the presence and nature of species of New Zealand wrens, but several studies have Ss
vocal learning in other bird groups. Despite the fact that examined the presence of vocal learning in suboscines. The 5
vocal learning is known from parrots and hummingbirds suboscines contain about 1400 species (species numbers
[11,12], knowledge about the learning processes involved is here and elsewhere are based on [20]), divided between
still limited. For other bird groups, even less knowledge the Eurylaimides (Old World suboscines—71 species) and
about (putative) vocal learning is available. There may be sev- the New World suboscines (1331 species). There are no reports
eral reasons for this. The vocalizations in many groups lack of vocal learning in Old World suboscines, but they have not
more complex structures or show no obvious interindividual been very well examined. Experimental studies on several
variations in element types and sequences. Early studies on New World suboscines have demonstrated the absence
some representatives of those groups showed that birds deafe- of vocal learning. Spotted antbirds, belonging to the
ned at an early age (chickens—[13]; ringdoves—[14]) or cross- Thamnophilidae, reared in acoustic isolation or with exposure
fostered to another species (Streptopelia doves—[15]) still devel- to heterospecific song, developed normal songs [21]. Also,
oped seemingly normal species-specific sounds, which may several tyrannid flycatchers that were hand reared and acous-
have discouraged further exploration. However, these studies tically isolated, deafened or exposed to heterospecific songs