
age in months

Figure 2. Rates of the three vocal types based on three different laboratory recording protocols. (a) Laughs occurred infrequently in all three protocols in the first
three months. Although the frequency was very low compared with cry/whimpers and protophones in the second half-year (note the y-axis scale differences for
(a) versus (b) and (c) to allow better visualization of differences in laugh rates across age), the rates of laughter were, as expected, at their highest in the Parent
Infant Talk circumstance (infant-directed speech). (b) Cry/whimpers were far more frequent than laughs at age 0 and up to and including three months (because
laugh onset tends not to occur until about that age), but rates were more comparable in the second half-year. Cry/whimper rates based on the laboratory counts
should, however, be interpreted in light of the fact that the recordings were sometimes interrupted to soothe a crying or fussing infant. The high rate of cry/
whimper during the No Adult Talk circumstance at zero months appears to have been the result of infant distress at being left nearby but unattended, which
resulted in either the parent deciding to hold the infant during No Adult Talk or interruption of the recording to calm the infant. (c) Protophone rates were
higher in the laboratory than in the all-day recordings though they tended to fall across the first year. Note that Parent Infant Talk did not correspond to notably
higher rates of protophones than in the other circumstances, a fact we interpret as corresponding to the largely endogenous nature of protophone production. Means
and standard errors for figure 2 were computed at the infant level.

sounds freely in any emotional state is clearly a foundation Infant laughter is salient not only in humans but also in
without which learning to use a word would be impossible. other apes [61]. In the only direct quantitative comparison
We call this capability to produce particular sounds in any we know of across human and non-human ape infants [8],
emotional state ‘vocal functional flexibility’ (VFF), and have we found that three bonobo infants laughed during rough
proven it to be present extensively in human infant proto- and tumble play or tickling and that laughter appeared to be
phones in the first months of life [6,11]. Laughs and cry/ the most frequent type of vocalization in the bonobo infants.
whimpers in infancy do not show VFF. The sample size was insufficient to make useful statistical com-

parisons of rates of laughter in the human and bonobo infants,
but protophones in the humans were far more frequent than