measures were subsequently introduced three days later, on make up a low proportion of index cases in households. As __
the evening of Monday 23 March. When we completed this pointed out by Viner ef al., this particular result could be = =
work in late May 2020, over 270 000 people in the UK had explained by children being less likely to get infected in the = 5!
been confirmed to have been infected with SARS-CoV-2, first place rather than children being less infectious once they = =
with over 37 500 confirmed deaths of individuals who had have actually contracted the virus. There is also evidence =
tested positive for infection. suggesting that mild cases in adults could be less infectious = &
The decision to close schools is a balance between the risk than severe or critical cases [10], but it remains unknown iat
associated with transmission in the school environment and whether this result extends to asymptomatic or mild casesin >!
the educational and welfare impact upon children of shutting children. Thus, children with severe symptoms are likely infec- s
down education establishments. Evidence from a range of tious, but it is harder to determine how transmissible the virus Ss
sources suggests that children are, in general, only mildly may be from children with few or no symptoms. S
affected by the disease and have low mortality rates [2,3]. As of May 2020, we were aware of three reported studies
This is reflected in the fact that by 27 May 2020 there had of SARS-CoV-2 infection within the school environment.
been 26235 COVID-19 associated deaths in hospitals in A retrospective serology study of 661 individuals with links
England, but only 16 of those were in the 0-19 year age to a school-based outbreak in Oise, France, showed that the
group [4]. In a retrospective study of 2135 paediatric infection spread readily within and outside the school to
COVID-19 cases in China [5], 89.7% of children had mild or reach students, teachers, staff and families [27]. By contrast,
moderate disease while 5.8% were severe or critical; similarly an Australian government study of cases in schools in
low levels of severe disease are reported in other regions [3,6]. Western Australia [28] identified nine children and nine
The health risks of school attendance for any individual child adults who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 (located across
are therefore thought to be low. different schools), but found only two secondary cases
However, there is less certainty regarding children’s when testing a third of the close contacts of these cases (288
role in the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 [7,8]. This can be samples). In Ireland, six SARS-CoV-2 cases were identified
broken down into two key questions: (i) how likely are chil- who had attended or taught in schools. None of 924 school-
dren to become infected; and (ii) once infected, are children related child contacts or 101 school-related adult contacts