or transitions) in such representation [47,97-100]. In fact, already alluded to in §2—standing and judging [27,67], staying
recent results reveal that state-complexity (ie. number of [68], L4 [44,52] and consistent standing [44]—as well as the
states in the corresponding automata) translate how difficult most cooperative second-order norms—SS and stern-judging
it is for humans to use a given strategy [47]. The difficulty of [53,55,57]. We also highlight two fourth-order extensions of
using a complex strategy is typically operationalized through judging: safe judging, that only assigns G to B donors if they
complexity costs, associating strategy usage with a cost pro- defect with recipients that are consistently B (by consistent
portional to its complexity [47,98,100]. Technically, however, we mean here that present and past reputations are the
it can become unfeasible to systematically translate all IR same); and strict judging, that only assigns G to donors that
social norms to an automaton and visually count its states. cooperate with recipients that are consistently G. Social
An alternative consists in regarding norms and strategies norms are organized in a tabular format (figure 2), which
as Boolean functions that, when evaluated as true, will assign provides a compact representation while offering a means
a good reputation or cooperate [32]. This approach naturally to grasp, visually, their order and complexity. Norms of
takes advantage of the fact that models of IR often consider first order have all entries of the left and the right eight-
binary reputations and binary actions. As a result, each entry blocks identical. Norms of second-order have four
layer of information used by strategies and norms can be con- four-entry blocks in each of which all entries are equal;
ceived as a Boolean (logic) variable that can acquire two norms of third-order have eight two-entry blocks of this type.
values: good/cooperate (true) or bad/defect (false). In the fol- Strategies are represented following a similar principle. In
lowing, we assume that the (A)ction of the donor is figure 3, we represent the trivial, unconditional, strategy always
represented by variable A, the current (R)eputation of the cooperate (AIC), the strategy discriminator (Disc, cooperate with
(D)onor is represented by Rp, the (A)ctual (R)eputation of G and defect with B), strict-discriminator (S-Disc, cooperate
the recipient is represented by Ra and the (P)revious (R)epu- only with those consistently G), strict-or (S-Or, cooperate if
tation of the recipient is captured by Rp. Again, these have a reputation B or if the opponent was consistently G) and
variables have value true (good or cooperate) or false (bad Parochial (cooperate if my opponent consistently has the exact
or defect). Let us exemplify this formalism: IS, a norm postu- same reputation as me).
lating that those that cooperate are good and those that defect Measuring the complexity of social norms and strategies