material, figure $14, panel C). While the proportions of D°" remain independent from any reputational effect. However,
and C°" in the population move systematically in opposite attributing loners too low a reputation (in AL and AB) ham-
directions, studying the actual actions played we observe oscil- pers the role of loners in providing a backup option against
lations in the proportion of opt-out and cooperative actions, invading defectors. Furthermore, not attributing defectors a
while defection is played by fewer individuals in a stable strictly lower reputation (in AN) allows them to more easily
manner. In other terms, the C”" strategy uses the reputational exploit cooperators by impeding the latter’s ability to dis-
information to conditionally cooperate. When in a group there criminate between loners and defectors (the full transition
happen to be too many defectors (most of whom are D°" given matrices are reported in electronic supplementary material,
their relative prevalence), the strategy resorts to opting-out, figures S1-S4). In all these cases the effectiveness of C°™
and thus avoiding being exploited. The strategy D°" acts simi- against defection is more limited; hence the strategy has lim-
larly, thus avoiding being completely evolved out, but it is ited evolutionary success (figure 2(b-d) and electronic
unable to spread the defection in the population. Importantly, supplementary material, figure S15). For this reason, in the
this dynamic relies on the fact that under the AD social norm, following we will focus our attention mainly on the AD
agents playing defection are assigned a strictly worse repu- social norm.

tation than loners, thus allowing C°” to discriminate between
the two behaviours. In other terms, the cyclic behaviour of

the baseline model—described by Rand & Nowak [25]—re- (b) Reputation with punishment
emerges, but with the loner strategy being part of two more We now analyse the impact of introducing the AD norm to
complex conditional strategies. Importantly, the cycles are— the OPGG with punishment. Owing to the substantial
in this set-up—quite noisy owing to the occasional attractive- empirical and theoretical evidence for the presence of anti-
ness (electronic supplementary material, figure S1, left panel) social punishment in the OPGG, we allow all possible types
of other strategies, which allows them to be the destination of of punishment to occur. In the presence of the AD norm,
some transitions and thus to survive albeit in low numbers. the level of cooperation in the population increases signifi-