make possible the creation of shared expectations about how in regulating social behaviour in humans. However, past


research has overlooked the socio-ecological conditions that Finally, we only focused on specific aspects of reputation

influence the relationship between reputation systems and (e.g. reputation systems and their relationship with interde-
cooperation. Here, we presented a review on environmental, pendence). However, variation across social ecologies may
cultural and institutional factors that shape reputation sys- also affect other aspects of reputation, such as the specific
tems and how reputation systems can affect cooperation via content of reputation information that may promote
changes in the interdependence structure. In particular, we cooperation [94]. For example, in some foraging immediate-
highlighted how such factors (e.g. relational mobility, preva- return social ecologies, gaining a reputation for being gener-
lence of individualistic values, formal institutions) could play ous helps establish cooperation within close groups
a crucial role in influencing either (i) the degree to which [45,95,96]. In fact, in such contexts, a reputation for pro-soci-
one’s actions are observable, (ii) how easily reputational ality generates trust among individuals, who are more willing
information can spread through gossip, and (iii) the interde- to select as cooperative partners people with such positive
pendence underlying social interactions. In turn, this affects reputation [97]. By contrast, in other contexts, a reputation
the success of reputation-based mechanisms of indirect for strength is more relevant and pervasive to regulate
reciprocity and partner choice in promoting cooperation. social interactions among individuals [98,99]. Future research
By focusing on a few prominent socio-ecological factors, is needed to understand how socio-ecological variation might
our review can provide a summary to guide future research be associated with other aspects of reputation.
on reputation. However, we should also outline a few limit- Although previous research has focused on reputation
ations. First, we focused on a limited set of factors that may systems in particular societies and contexts [30-32], there is
influence the form and functioning of reputation systems in still a tendency to assume that reputation systems operate
particular contexts. Other socio-ecological factors may also in a social vacuum, or that they will invariantly be effective
play a crucial role in affecting reputation systems in other con- in promoting cooperation across diverse contexts. Here, we