Second, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study emerge from people talking about others [5,49], and what is
in which specific hypotheses about gossip strategies are reported does not necessarily correspond to what happened.
derived from the theory of competitive altruism and tested. Besides demonstrating the benefit of partner choice in sup-
If cooperation has signalling value, then investing in it is ben- porting cooperation in a Public Goods game, this study also
eficial only if the gossip about cooperators is honest, and they determined that competitive altruism can explain gossip
can be reliably identified and selected for future partnerships. reliability and that gossip strategies are correlated with

In a complementary way, our results show that defectors material cooperation.

actively try to undermine the reliability of gossip by spreading
false information. This difference in gossip strategies adds to the
ongoing debate about the honesty of gossip [31,39,42,43] by
providing supporting evidence about the fact that gossip is Ethics. All participants in the experiment signed an informed consent
mostly reliable. Even when it is not, it can still support to participate. In agreement with the Spanish Law for Personal Data

: sas A : : oe Protection, no association was ever made between their real names
cooperation, in line with ethnographic evidence on gossip in and the results. This procedure was checked and approved by the

groups and small-scale societies [44-46]. Future work is Ethics Committee of ISTC CNR (Rome), where the first author was
needed to investigate the boundaries of gossip reliability and based at the time of the experiment, and the experiment was sub-
the effect of contextual variables in the decision to lie and in sequently carried out in accordance with the approved guidelines

the development of different gossip strategies. Factors like and regulations.

embeddedness in a network [47], or likelihood and magnitude Data accessibility. The experimental data that support the findings of