tralizes the effect of an initial social prominence/capital altered pay-off mechanism is that it leads to a ‘reputational = &
advantage even though social prominence/capital shapes poverty trap’, where high quality individuals who start with =
the pairwise interactions. sufficiently low social prominence/standing do not engage >

Having established these baselines, we consider the role of in the public signalling event (see strategies in the electronic
signalling under the altered prior mechanism. The model runs supplementary material, figure SL.2b). This is best seen by Ss
show that thanks to costly signals, observers gain useful infor- observing the trajectories for q = 1, initial 5; = low in figure 3c. S
mation about quality (figure 3b). In particular, high quality Despite being reliably revealed as high quality in the pairwise
individuals are revealed over time as such, and enjoy increas- interactions, they remain stuck in an equilibrium of low social
ing levels of social prominence/capital, independent of their prominence/capital and low reputation because the costs of sig-
starting point. By contrast, low quality individuals tend to nalling are too high, greatly limiting their ability to build
lose reputation and social prominence/capital over time, themselves up. This in turn limits the number of pairwise inter-
owing to the fact that they sometimes do not signal, and actions they engage in, which also prevents them from building
experience failures more frequently. This feeds back on pair- social prominence/ capital. By contrast, high quality individuals
wise interactions, which become less frequent (see the who start with high social prominence/capital reap yet greater
electronic supplementary material, figure SI.5). benefits from their signalling acts: they are involved in a larger

However, the model runs illustrate that the altered prior proportion of the pairwise interactions, meaning that there is
mechanism leads to incomplete information revelation and substantial inequality in the number of interactions that individ-
unequal reputational gains. Low quality individuals with uals have (see the electronic supplementary material, §2.3, cf.
high initial social prominence/capital can maintain a high [63,64]). Of course, we also observe a similar pattern of relative
level of both social prominence/capital and reputation for disadvantage for high quality individuals with low initial S; in
many rounds, despite costly signalling events; we term this the ‘cue only’ condition, but it is more absolute in this scenario.

a ‘reputational shield’. Finally, when both the altered prior and pay-off mechan-