message proceeded (figure 1 and section about manipulation 2).

After the first round in phase II (round 7), players played one
of the PDs with their gossip partner from the previous round.
The other PD partner was the target of gossip from the previous
round. To control who is playing with whom in the next round,
the target of the gossip was randomly selected. In one round,

(0 Procedure only half of the matching resulted in PDs with previous gossip

(i) Phase |: basic level of cooperation without communication senders and targets. The inverse rule has been applied to the
At the beginning of each round, individuals were randomly other half of the participants: they played with the receiver of
paired with two other players whose fictitious names appeared their first gossip and who received a message about them
on the screen and played separate two-person PD games with (figure 2). The computer determined randomly who belongs to
them (see translated screen 1 in electronic supplementary which half at the beginning of each round. Players were aware
material, S2). Neutral framing was used in the experiment: of these matching rules.

options were labelled with letters (L and R). Outcomes were From round 6, besides gossip, players could assign reputation
set as follows. If both players cooperated, they earned HUF scores to other participants. They were asked to evaluate ona scale
1500 (R); in contrast, if both defected, they received HUF 500 of 0-100 according to how much they ‘trust other participants’.
(P). A person who cooperated while the partner defected was These individually assigned private reputation scores are hence
not entitled to payment (S). Conversely, the partner’s payment not consensual. In round 6, everyone’s score was set to a starting
was HUF 2000 (T). The payoff structure was calibrated such value of 50, but changes were saved to subsequent rounds, thus,
that the index of cooperation ([76,77]; (R-P)/(T—S) = 0.5) players were able to use the saved reputation scores they assigned.
shows a moderate conflict between self- and group interest. Par- Fifty seconds were available for the assignment of reputation