diagnostic plots indicated that the age effects might be use to describe the quality and value of a friendship, we oper- z
driven by the few individuals aged 60 years and over. We, ationalized coalition quality as the ‘closeness’ of real-world =
therefore, fitted a model excluding those individuals. Model sorority friends. Participants rated how close they were with “S
coefficients were similar and remained statistically significant each of their four best friends in the sorority house (1, not at = =
(model not reported). all close, to 10, extremely close), as well as how close each of S
those friends was with each other (e.g. ‘How close is your ©
2nd closest friend with your 4th closest friend?’). The first inde- =
4. Study 2: does the quality of real-world pendent variable, selfclose, was the sum of each participant's 5
‘ i . . perceived closeness with her best friends, a simple measure =
sorority coalitions increase perceived of dyadic relationship quality. The second independent vari: >
likelihood of reputational harm to a able, friendsclose, was the sum of each participant’s perceived ~
. closeness among her best friends, another simple measure of = =
fictional adversary? coalition quality. =
To determine whether one’s real-world coalitional status influ- Women with high-quality coalitions should be more =
ences perceived likelihood of reputational harm to a fictional willing and able to cooperate effectively than women with =
adversary, we recruited 74 members of one southern California low-quality coalitions. We, therefore, predicted that higher 8
college sorority to participate (mean age = 20.4 years, s.d. = 1.2 selfclose and friendsclose scores would be associated with iat
years). The data used for study 2 are a subset of a much larger higher ninabadrep scores. Ps
dataset involving several surveys, ego network data and inter- Previously, Hess [23] found that in this sorority, one mem-
views, all collected over 4 years of ethnographic work on ber’s perception of closeness to the other members correlated Ss
female conflict, cooperation and coalitions; hence, we do not positively with those other members’ average perceived close-  S

have male data (see [23] for an extended description of subject ness to her (r= 0.41). In addition, the member's perception of

closeness among the other members also correlated positively