some controversy over the precise nature of this social learn- posits anything different, as there is no artefactual evidence
ing. One possibility is ‘emulation learning’ in which the to suggest anything special in their cultural organization.
learner aims at reproducing the same outcome as another Between the late Australopithecines and early Homo,
individual, but does not copy the actual technique used by around 3 to 3.5 million years ago in Africa, there emerged
the other to achieve that outcome. Another is ‘imitative learn- some new toolmaking behaviour [14]. Stone tools began
ing’ in which the learner achieves the same outcome as being produced. Experimental studies of the ‘Oldowan’
another by copying the specific behaviour they use to achieve tools produced by Homo by contemporary humans demon-
that outcome. While the skills learned in these contexts are strate that they are not particularly cognitively demanding
often skills that could likely have been figured out by an indi- (flakes are made in a fairly haphazard striking together of
vidual chimpanzee on her own given enough time (hence stones; [15]), and indeed with minimal experience, a
calling into question the importance of the social learning human-raised bonobo has made Oldowan-type tools [16]. It
component; [6]), on the whole, there is little doubt that chim- is thus possible that Oldowan tools were mainly made by
panzee individuals do in fact learn many of their skills from early individuals on their own, using only outcome-based
their peers. processes of social learning, such as emulation learning. Old-
Nevertheless, the kind of social learning available to owan tools were followed by early Acheulian tools, which
chimpanzees can be clearly distinguished from that of were used for some time by various species of Homo, includ-
humans. Experimentally demonstrated phenomena of ing Homo erectus as they spread out over the Old World.
chimpanzee social learning are especially relevant in this con- These tools are more challenging to make, but there was
text. Haun et al. [7] found that chimpanzees are influenced in little innovation in them over hundreds of thousands of
their social learning by the number of different demonstrators years. It is reasonable to suppose thus that both Oldowan
they observe performing some activity: not just how many and early Acheulian tools represent a continuation of the
times the individual sees the activity being done in total, chimpanzee-like pattern of individual innovation plus con-
but rather by how many different individuals they see servative social learning [17].

doing it (the so-called majority bias, also seen in humans).