pressures would be ona language that only needs to be learned expressive ones. 3
by subsequent generations of individuals. The simulation in x
[59] models learning as a process of Bayesian inference in To test this, in the next section, we modify the model of [59]. s
which hypotheses that are simpler have a higher prior prob- Whereas in that model meanings were complex (in that they Ss
ability. Specifically, languages that can be encoded with had distinct parts) but signals were relatively simple, here we 3
shorter descriptions are more learnable. The simplest possible consider the case where meanings are atomic but signals have
language is one in which utterance is identical (you can ima- greater potential complexity. This allows us to explore a space
gine a language in which there is just one ‘word’ for every of languages that vary in their degree of combinatoriality of
possible meaning). Obviously, this language is very easy to signals. Specifically, there will be languages in this space
learn. Indeed, in simulations of iterated learning, in which with and without minimal pairs. We will use this model to
the language of each generation of individuals is acquired by understand the precise conditions under which duality of
simply observing utterances produced by the previous gener- patterning evolves.
ation, this degenerate language is exactly what emerges. This However, the fact that ABSL does not display combinatori-
is also true in the experiment laboratory. Degenerate languages ality leads us to wonder what determines whether a language
where multiple meanings are expressed using a single signal displays this feature. One of the most exciting features of signed
quickly emerge in transmission chain experiments with languages from the perspective of research in language evol-
miniature artificial languages [8]. ution is that they are all relatively young. Some are younger
Obviously, while they are learnable, degenerate languages than others—so much so that we actually in some cases have
are dysfunctional as they cannot be used to communicate dis- clear evidence of the process of emergence—and it is reasonable
tinctions between meanings. To address this, Kirby et al. [59] to suggest that some design features have yet to appear in
introduce a model of communication [60] in which the these. Emerging sign languages therefore act as real-world
simulated agents prefer to produce signals that would dis- equivalents of the processes that we are trying to recreate in
criminate between distinct meanings (on the assumption laboratory experiments, but with the advantage that the
that their interlocutor has the same language as themselves). languages are fully-blown natural systems rather than minia-
In a model (and laboratory experiment) in which two such ture laboratory equivalents. In addition, a common criticism