straints similar to that seen in small or isolated populations (reducing developmental costs), or it may make the behav-
[131,132], and the new forms might become established iour itself more efficient: in the case of a communication
through some combination of (a) cultural drift [37,133] and system, the signals could carry more meanings or provide a
(b) rare-form bias (anti-conformity) [134]. more effective signal that better conveys a meaning. We
Because different song segments may serve different sig- argue that songs based on rules for assembling categories
nalling functions, they may also be shaped by different (such as those of swamp sparrows) as well as segmented
learning mechanisms or biases. For example, the Savannah songs (such as those of Savannah sparrows and white-
sparrow buzz segment serves as a population marker and crowned sparrows) meet these criteria for cumulative cultural
is maintained across individuals and time (figure 6, blue) evolution. First, iterations of social learning across generations
[112], while the middle segment’s note complex varies both result in systematic changes in a population’s songs over time.
within a population and over time and appears to denote Second, the successive changes can result in a more effective
individual identity or local affiliation (figure 6, green) [11]. signal, in terms of reproductive success, as in the case of the
The fact that birds apply different learning rules to different interstitial notes of Savannah sparrow song. Third, these
song segments adds a level of cognitive complexity to the songs have evolved at least two layers of organization—
cultural evolution of bird song. categories and syllables for swamp sparrow songs, and
Another form of signal effectiveness that cultural evol- syllables and segments for Savannah sparrow song—and so
ution acts upon is the ability of songs to attract females. have become more complex and structured over time.
An attractive songs yields an increase in the singer’s repro- As signalling systems, however, bird songs do not come
ductive rate, a standard measure of ‘fitness’ in terms of close to the complexity and combinatoriality of human
both natural and sexual selection. If one song segment is language, and they also appear to lack referential properties.
attractive to females, singing that segment gives a male In many songbird species, learning is completed relatively
clear fitness benefits. Cultural evolution may then act on early in life and new material is not incorporated thereafter,
the sexually selected song segment if males are able to prefer- and so the ability of the signal to change during an individ-
entially learn variants they observe to be more effective for ual’s adult life in order to carry new information is further
attracting females (a form of prestige bias). The interstitial limited. Nevertheless, variation in the components of the