correction response [29], and when these responses are ‘elongated/late’ or ‘shortened/early’ a given duration is com-
present one can speak of ‘couplings’ among the musicians in pared to the prototypical durations relative to the entire cycle
an ensemble. Previous literature [13,30,31] examined music duration (I'/, = Jii, —J'",, where Jii, and J”, are the raw
where the rhythm is largely homogeneous across all instru- and prototypical average durations, respectively; see electronic
ments in the ensemble. However, the rhythmic texture of supplementary material, §3.3 for details). Despite its relative sim-
Suku is more complex, as it comprises distinctly different plicity, the model captures 66% of the explained variance in IOIs.
thythmic patterns distributed across ensemble members; Note that coupling is dependent on two instruments: the
every musician does not articulate every position in the rhyth- ‘influencer’ and the ‘influenced’ (figure 3b). We therefore
mic cycle. Therefore, we compared actual IOIs to the incorporated these two factors (Influencer instrument, Influ-
expectations based on their prototypical durations, based enced instrument) into a mixed effect model as random
upon their average onset positions within the rhythmic cycle effects, with Ensemble also as a random effect and Lineup
(figure 22,b), from which the metrical grid can be empirically as a fixed effect, as per our analysis of the mean and standard
inferred. Here, we relied on the fact that Malian drummers deviation of the asynchrony given above (see electronic sup-
are extremely stable with respect to their relative phases plementary material, figure S4 for average coupling constant
(figure 1c) within the cycle despite the large tempo changes values, separated by ensemble and lineup). This model
characteristic of this repertoire (figure 1b). Formally, this explained 58% of the explained variance. We validated the
model can be written as choice of this model by comparing it to the performance of

alternative models and we found that it was nearly optimal
Mey = agily + Sj ¢ic4ij1" (2.1) (ABIC = AAIC = 0.71, Alog-likelihood = 0.36, nearly identical


explained variance compared with the optimal model; see
electronic supplementary material, §3.2). We then considered
all other possible models with a reduced number of factors.