waves [22]. Thus, we suggest that the preference for leadership is wave rate, a group of competitive males would engage in a
has evolved after the preference for fast wave rate. faster rate and, as a consequence, more likely synchronize.


Thus, if females prefer fast wave rates and leadership, they of basic research through systematic field observations and

should be more attracted to such competitive groups in syn- detailed behavioural data collection.
chrony. This is true in the bushcricket, Mecopoda elongata, Ethics. This project was approved by the Australian National Univer- S
where females are attracted to synchronous groups of males sity Animal Ethics Committee (A2018/44) and the research was s
because together they amplify their signal. However, females conducted under the permit DCC2322876—Darwin City Council. ©
also prefer leading chirps and fast chirp rate, evidencing the Females were kept in individual cups under the shade when not “S
competitive element of that interaction [3]. Evidence that syn- being used. After the experiment females were released in a separate =
chrony in fiddler crabs is adaptive is in fact observed in area of the mudflat to avoid recapture. Handling was limited and no =
A . crabs were injured during the study. ea
L. saltitanta and A. perplexa that present synchrony in the . : . A F 2
Data accessibility. The computing codes and datasets supporting this =<
absence of females [22]. Indeed, synchrony may have a par- article have been uploaded as part of the electronic supplementary s
tially adaptive role in A. mjoebergi, because females are material [43]. 5
attracted to distant males if there is one leading male Authors’ contributions. D.MLP. designed the study, collected and analysed =
followed by neighbours in synchrony (L. Harrison and the data, and prepared the manuscript. S.B.L.A. and C.L.K. designed = &
P. Backwell 2021, personal communication). the study, analysed the data and prepared the manuscript. -
Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests. =
Funding. This work was supported by Coordenacéo de Aperfeicoa- =
5 C on du si on mento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior - Brazil (CAPES)—Finance =
. code 001 to D.MLP. and C.L.K. —