
(c) Vocal sy chrony same-sex friends. Further, ratings of romantic interest based
In general, unacquainted individuals actively match their f, on voice were positively correlated with the degree of speak-
and temporal speech patterns during conversations ers’ reported love for their romantic partner [104]. In a similar
[1,93,94]. In a mock speed-dating event, women did not study, female speakers were perceived by raters as sounding
lower their f, when speaking to a male ‘suitor’ whose f, more approachable, sincere, submissive and scatterbrained
had been experimentally lowered versus raised [95]. How- during phone conversations with their intimate male partner
ever, another speed-dating experiment involving mixed-sex than with their male friend [105].
dialogues of heterosexual singles showed that speakers con- Listeners have also been found to recognize close partner
verged over time in both voice register and vocal range vocalizations as opposed to those obtained from stranger con-
[96]. The degree of pitch convergence was dependent upon versations with better-than-chance accuracy from 1-min
perceived attractiveness and likability of their conversational segments of conversations without verbal content [94].
partner. In fact, speakers in a dyadic interaction could show Whereas the stranger partner conversations tended to have
prosodic entrainment at different degrees, and it was possible more uniform or homogeneous vocal features, close partner
that entrainment could be one-sided depending upon each vocalizations carried their own set of unique characteristics.
speaker's perception of their interlocutor. Independent listeners thought that close partner vocalizations
Displays of vocal synchrony between human mates seem sounded relaxed, included many vocal changes, and they per-
to parallel patterns seen in avian mate choice [93], and non- ceived that the womans tone decreased in a playful way. By
vocal behavioural synchrony during human courtship [97]. contrast, stranger partner conversations entailed very little
Vocal matching in songbirds facilitates mate attraction [98]. rise or fall in tones, had longer pauses, and the woman often
Indeed, higher levels of synchronicity in the speech patterns sounded high-pitched and hurried. Romantic partners also
of close romantic partners were found compared to stranger showed greater turn-taking behaviours during their conversa-
dyads [94]. However, it is important to note that stranger tions and more sustained patterns of vocal synchrony than
dyads showed a steady increase in vocal convergence as found in conversations exchanged between strangers [94].
their conversation exchange progressed. In comparison, Because certain vocalizations and intonations are directly