spond to vocal tract structure and configuration [19]. The When trying to sound larger, speakers adjusted their apparent
documented perceptual effects of vocal pitch (the perceptual vocal tract length (VTL) to seem longer (by lowering F,,),

correlate of f,) are vast and are beyond the scope of this while simultaneously lowering their f,. Speakers adjusted


both dimensions in the opposite direction to sound smaller. In Participants in small-scale societies (and other populations | 4 |

all three groups, men modulated their voices to a greater extent as well) often understand that they are being compared
than women, and all speakers tended to rely differentially on f, with people from other societies, and they can easily appraise
modulation. experimental tasks as intelligence tests, assuming that there is

If speakers’ voices are related to their body morphology, a right answer, when in fact there often is not one. Care
we might expect other relationships to be present as well, should be taken in developing instructions to manage the
such as how particular vocal indicators of formidability trade-off between risks associated with participants being
are related to mating and reproduction. A number of cross- threatened by a presumed intelligence test or direct cultural
cultural studies have examined the relationship between comparisons, and instructions that elicit accurate responses
reproductive success and vocal f,, but the effects are while communicating to the subject that they are not being
confounded. Apicella & Feinberg [30] found a negative judged for their pattern of responses. Participants also realize,
relationship between Hadza men’s f, and the number of pur- usually implicitly (like experienced WEIRD participants), that = =
ported offspring, and in subsequent work reported that Hadza there are expectations of the researchers for a specific pattern >
men and women judged opposite-sex individuals with lower of responses. s
fo as better foragers (i.e. hunting and gathering). But women Judgements involving measures such as attractiveness, =:
who were currently breastfeeding preferred men with higher prestige, likability and so on are likely to elicit highly variable = 5
f. as potential mates and women who were not breastfeeding responses across cultures as a function of the vast possible =