ments and judgement patterns of those tokens. Consequently, materials are translated properly—establishing functional =
cross-cultural research has been able to establish reliable (and and cultural equivalence—tasks should be measuring the
increasingly undeniable) patterns of universality in ID same thing for all participants. In the case of a decision
speech, and cultural variations are easier to detect and inter- task where a given response is scored as ‘correct’, the Ss
pret. But questions of function are more difficult to address, response should generally adhere to objective criteria for &
especially as ID speech appears to be multifunctional, with what actually constitutes a correct response. Reliance on
early effects being related to affective communication, and language-based categories becomes immediately suspect by
later functions being potentially connected to different aspects this standard, and researchers presuming themselves to be
of language learning [70,84,85]. studying objective judgements are sometimes inadvertently

The growing literature on universal acoustic forms in ID studying opinions, misunderstandings or even just noise.
speech suggests shared functions across cultures, but almost As described earlier, this problem is especially troublesome
no work has explored this issue carefully. In fact, there is rela- for emotion perception research as the phenomena of interest
tively little direct evidence for proposed adaptive benefits of are not inherently linguistic, and behaviour patterns are not
ID speech more generally. Studies done primarily in English subject to a single correct alternative (e.g. which vocalization
speakers and other WEIRD societies have revealed various is appropriate in a given emotional scenario).
effects, including increased brain activation in response to Many cross-cultural vocal researchers have managed
ID speech relative to AD speech, and enhanced language to largely avoid this predicament by relying on objective
learning (for reviews, see [86,87]). The paucity of work acoustic measures that can be implemented across cultures,
on functional effects of ID speech is likely due in part to dif- and judgements of objective properties of speakers such as
ficulties associated with longitudinal measurement over speaker size and strength or the intended target of a vocalizer
developmental time. But even relatively simple studies exam- (e.g. ID or AD). In such research, there are relatively more
ining the direct impacts of ID speech on immediate behaviour consistencies found across disparate cultural groups, as
are lacking. For example, we should expect that infants across opposed to studies that measure opinions such as attractive-
disparate societies should respond similarly to basic acoustic ness or social status. That said, there is certainly value in