There are clear differences in form and complexity between This idea of musics as cultural expressions lacking any rel-
human and non-human forms of vocal communication, evant commonalities, only valid within the context of a
which make the understanding of the evolution of human particular human group [1,2], is essential to understand the
acoustic communication a huge challenge. For example, limitations that it places on the study of music. If there are
Falk [14, p. 491] asked, ‘why are we the only animals that no universals in musics—no common basic principles that
talk?’. Similarly, Brown & Jordania [15, p. 230] noted that, allow measurements and comparisons to be made—then
among more than 4500 singing species living today, only the scientific study of music as one universal human
humans have ‘the ability to follow precise rhythmic patterns phenomenon would be irrelevant and perhaps implausible.
so as to permit group singing, drumming, and dancing’, lead- However, this view is by no means common to all researchers
ing them to ask ‘What explains the unique place of humans within the humanities (e.g. [5,15,25]); Blacking [5], for
among singing species?’. example, stated that every society has some cultural manifes-
Finding answers to these questions is made challenging tations that can be recognized as music, implying that there
by the lack of clear intermediate stages that allow us to are, in fact, common features.
create an accurate picture of the evolutionary process towards In the light of immense cultural variability, it seems diffi-
modern forms of human acoustic communication. There are cult to agree about a definition of what music is, and
no other extant hominin species with varying degrees of especially how it arose and what it is for. However, despite
acoustic communicative complexity, with which we could these obstacles, we know that our brain, physiology and psy-
compare ourselves. And, as the fossil record does not allow chology render humans capable of producing and listening to
us to directly study the acoustic communication of extinct music. In other words, we do at least know that the capacity
species, we are forced to rely on indirect inferences based to process musical information, musicality, is universal.
on archaeological findings or observations of modern For some decades, scientists from diverse disciplines have
animal species (including humans). For instance, even in presented data that speak to us of a more primal, biological
the case of Neanderthals, Homo neanderthalensis, probably basis of musicality, common to all humans. And, further-
the most studied extinct human species, there seem to be more, science has provided an insight into the cognitive
no clear conclusions about their level of acoustic communi- demands of musical capacity. We all share the amazing