(e.g. group cohesion and social identity). Cebuella pygmuaea, a socially complex species with cooperative
Although ancestral primate societies lived in groups, and breeding, have been shown to use a form of ‘babbling’ during
social cohesion and bonding were likely achieved by other infancy that decreases as they grow older [204], and such bab-
means (similar to other primates; e.g. [137-139]), parent— bling in both infants and juveniles is associated with
infant communication became fundamental because of increased social interactions with other group members
increasing altriciality, and the resulting prolonged parental 205]. In fact, cooperative breeding has been argued to pro-
care and need to acquire more and more complex information mote the evolution of language ([206,207]; see also [86]).
via social learning. In short, we are suggesting that musicality However, perhaps the most interesting example comes from
is based on pre-existing abilities (see also [136]), that musical- gelada baboons, Theropithecus gelada, a species that lives in
ity itself pre-dates music, and that its primary and original a less complex ecological environment, but a more complex
purpose was not music (music being, in this view, an epiphe- social environment, than the closely related chacma baboons,
nomenon). This model for the evolution of musicality is Papio ursinus, and has more vocal complexity [208]. Geladas,
summarized in figure 1. in fact, have been shown to synchronize their calls [209] and

use both rhythm and melody in their vocal interactions [210].
In human language contexts, musicality seems to be

(b) Implications and tests required to perceive fy contours, of which variability in funda-
If this model accurately portrays the evolution of musicality mental frequency (fo variability) modulation seems to be a good
and its role in complex human vocal communication, musi- indicator [8-11,211]. While most evidence points toward an
cality could be partially a fossil of our musical brain, whose important role of fy modulation in courtship contexts and
original communicative purpose was bonding and communi- mate choice, new lines of evidence have highlighted the impor-
cation between parents and infants, primarily through tance of fy variability modulation and other forms of musicality
expressive pitch contours, and later the social communication in more general contexts, including the recently reported
of intentions and emotions (see [195] in part I, who shows association between fo variability and cooperativeness [212],