frequency (FO), determined by the speed of vocal fold vibration month-old infants already associate low FO and low formants
and resonance frequencies, determined by the size and shape with larger bodies [19], suggesting that the sensitivity to
of the resonator. This difference can be characterized in terms acoustic body size arises early.

of ‘source-filter theory’ [24], a two-stage model of vocal pro-
duction where the glottal wave generated by the vocal folds

in the larynx (the ‘source’) is subsequently manipulated in its (b) The frequency code hypothesis
spectral characteristics by the shape and size of the supralaryn- Ohala’s frequency code hypothesis extends these facts about
geal vocal tract (the ‘filter’). Humans have vocal control over the acoustic correlates of body size into the realm of various
both source and filter: they can modulate the pitch by vibrating social and linguistic phenomena [14]. The frequency code is a
their vocal folds faster (source), and they can create different bold and synthetic proposal, bringing together a number of see-
vowels and consonants by changing the position of the mingly disparate communicative facts by proposing a biological
tongue (filter). The resonance frequencies of the vocal tract, motivation grounded in body size differences between animals.
called ‘formants’, are the primary determinant of vowel qual- At its most general level, the frequency code proposes that a
ity, such as the difference between /i/ and /a/. Throughout number of different social and communicative interpretations
this paper, we distinguish between FO and formant frequencies, of pitch and vowel quality derive from whether something
but we refer to ‘vocalization frequency’ when the distinction sounds ‘small’ (=high frequency sounds) or ‘large’ (=low fre-
between the two is irrelevant, for example, because the two quency sounds), which is also why the frequency code has
lead to similar effects in perception [20]. been called a ‘size code’ [23,46]. Crucially, being grounded in
All else being equal, larger animals have lower vocaliza- biology does not entail that acoustics are tied to the body ina
tion frequencies [25]. This is the case with fundamental static manner. As pointed out by Gussenhoven [46], ‘communi-
frequency, which is correlated with body size when making cation by means of the codes does not require that these
comparisons across different animal species, as has been physiological conditions are actually created. It is enough to
established for birds [26], frogs [17] and mammals [15,27], create the effects. That is, the effects are not automatic, but