nonverbal acoustic structure of roars best predicts physical dictive power of vocal parameters and these results thus 3S
strength. Indeed, predicted strength based on vocal parameters should be interpreted with caution.
in roars explained the most variance in actual strength for Regarding specific acoustic parameters, it is difficult to
Cameroonian men and women (explaining 40% of the var- derive a clear generalization of their independent contri-
iance in measured HGS) and for Hadza men (explaining butions due to the lack of consistency in the pattern of
63% of the variance), and explained generally two to four acoustic predictors included in each final average model.
times more variance in strength than did speech (vowels, However, unlike in studies based on assessments of formid-
words or phrases). While roars relative to greetings predicted ability in voice perception (e.g. [73]), and evidence that
strength better in men than in women, roars produced by relatively low f, can predict strength in the speech of
Hadza women explained an impressive 71% of the variance peri-pubertal Bolivian Tsiname males (but not females;
in their actual physical strength, though this was comparable [22]), we did not find a consistent relationship between low
to the predictive power of their greeting speech (77%). Thus, male fundamental frequency (f,) and strength across samples
in contrast with speech, nonverbal roars appear to most effec- and different vocal types. In fact, in several cases, for example
tively encode functional cues to physical strength, as also in the short speech and roars of Hadza men, higher mean f,
observed in non-human mammals [29]. signalled strength. As increased subglottal pressure will
However, despite our finding that roars and, to a lesser cause an increase in voice pitch [74], this result could be
extent, speech, encode information about physical strength due to greater lung capacity and/or louder vocalizations
in non-WEIRD samples of men and women of African produced by stronger men, a prediction that can be directly
origin, our analyses did not identify a single vocal parameter tested in future work. Notably, a recent meta-analysis
nor a consistent combination of vocal parameters that pre- showed, using data from eight studies and 845 adult men,
dicted strength in both sexes and in both speech and roars. that mean f, explains a mere 0.005% of the variance
The complex combinations of acoustic predictors revealed (r=—0.07) in men’s upper body strength [24]. The present
by our models, and their high variability across sex, sample study is, to our knowledge, the first to examine whether
and vocal stimulus type, corroborate the discrepancies of nonlinear acoustic phenomena (NLP) predict strength in
past studies conducted in Western samples [20,22-24,26]. human roars. While we find preliminary evidence to support