alleles analysed is given in parentheses after the marker name. All markers are also among those used in forensic serological analysis [2]. APh: acid phosphatase 1;
AK: adenylate kinase 1; PGM1: phosphoglucomutase 1; PGD: phosphogluconate dehydrogenase; Ag: B-lipoprotein, Ag system; Lp: B-lipoprotein, Lp system; Hp:
haptoglobin. (6) Lewontin’s [1] 169 populations are shown, with assignment to one of seven racial groups indicated by background colour (n indicates
number of populations per racial group). Not all populations were typed for all 17 markers shown in (a). Sets of populations are placed on the world map
to indicate approximate regions of origin; north and south Native Americans are distinguished here, though were considered as one ‘Amerind’ group by Lewontin.
For some populations, geographical location and racial group assignment indicate anthropological classifications and some examples (e.g. US Blacks, Turks) are placed
separately from the major sets. Names of populations and racial groups are those given by Lewontin [1]; the significance of inverted commas round some population
names is unclear.

and natural selection, and the characteristics, such as pigmen- as recognized by Landsteiner [4]: ‘to detect the non-identity
tation, that are among the traditional racial classifiers. The of blood samples’.

fact that forensic genetics exists to serve criminal justice sys- Forensic biologists went on to combine sets of these classical
tems, and that such systems fail to treat all ethnic groups polymorphisms to reduce the random match probability (RMP;
equitably, lends particular importance to this link with race. figure 2), the chance that two different individuals have match-

ing genotypes [2], and exploited their Mendelian inherited
nature in kinship testing [7]. If genetic loci are unlinked and

2. The evolution of forensic genetics: from blood the population is randomly mating, then independent inheri-
tance means that, in principle, their allele frequencies can be

groups to DNA profiles multiplied in deriving genotype frequencies—this is known
The very first known human genetic polymorphism, vari- as the product rule. As a consequence, RMPs fell to more
ation in the ABO blood group system, was identified by useful average levels of 1% or lower, but there remained practi-