specific populations. This has proved a relevant issue for studies of MHC diversity, which have recently found examples of
specific populations with signatures of increased Fsy, in the opposite direction to the overall Fsr values presented above.

For a set of closely related African populations (African-American, Nigerians and Gambians), Bhatia et al. [54] found that
the Fsr in the MHC region significantly exceeded that of the rest of the genome. For another set of African populations, Patin
et al. [55] also found an excess differentiation at the MHC region for Bantu speakers, relative to genomewide. In an analysis of
Native Americans, Nunes ef al. [56] used microsatellites to show that Fsr in the MHC exceeded neutral expectations. Finally,
Brandt et al. [57] found that pairwise contrasts between East Asian populations from the 1000 Genomes data showed unu-
sually high Fs; when compared to genomewide averages.

Thus, while there is strong evidence of reduced overall Fsr for SNPs in the MHC region and HLA genes (figures 2 and 3
of the manuscript), studies that queried closely related sets of populations identified instances where Fsr for markers within
the MHC region is in fact higher, and not lower, than genomewide averages. These findings are consistent with selection
favouring locally adapted variants and emphasize the importance of considering that selective regimes at HLA loci may
differ, depending on the timescale being considered [29,58].

not typical of the human genome in general’ [51], we believe analytical explorations of fitness surfaces that arise when
that the features of HLA polymorphism differ from the aver- interactions among loci and changing environments are con-
age pattern he described, but do not represent a rejection of sidered [53]. The study of HLA genes provides an example of
the main message his 1972 paper conveyed. how a locus can carry the signatures of distinct selective
However, our discussion also shows that the quantitative regimes, at different timescales: strong evidence of balancing
findings for HLA based on Fsr or Lewontin’s apportionment selection at the level of SNPs, when long timescales are con-
approach (e.g. table 1) are not particularly informative about sidered, and evidence of recent selection, favouring locally
important features of HLA diversity. For example, the simple adapted HLA alleles, at recent timescales (involving diver-
observation that allele frequencies differ markedly across gence between populations inhabiting the same continent,