of behaviours and cognitive abilities, as well as mediate pos- ing some individuals to ascend in status. Following this
ition in the hierarchy itself [34,35]. Successfully navigating a perturbation, we retested the males to determine if cognitive
dominance hierarchy often requires cognitive abilities such performance and behaviour changed in concordance with
as individual recognition, spatial learning of territories and social ascent. Both before and after the perturbation we
home ranges, associative learning between aggressive assayed waterborne hormone (cortisol and testosterone)
encounters and individuals and transitive inference to predict levels.
fight outcomes [36-38]. Yet surprisingly few studies have We expected that during social ascent males would
examined the relationship between dominance status and exhibit cognitive, behavioural and physiological changes,
cognitive performance in memory and spatial cognition whereas non-ascending males would not. We predicted
tasks (but see [39] (dogs), [40] (lizards) and [41] (pheasants)). ascending males would exhibit more ‘bold/exploratory/
The physiological underpinnings of social dominance risky’ cognitive styles (detectable via space use patterns,
have been examined in detail, especially with regards to the decision latencies and neophilia) across all three tasks as
role of sex steroid hormones (for review see [42,43]). In fact, they would be prioritizing current reproductive success,
these hormone systems also modulate cognitive performance whereas non-ascending males would conversely prioritize
across species and cognitive domains (for review see [44,45]). future reproductive success. We expected this would be evi-
In rodents, sex steroids like oestradiol enhance cognitive abil- dent in our social competence assay, which was divided
ities [46] and testosterone modulates synaptic plasticity and into a reproductive opportunity phase followed by a male
improves cognitive performance across a variety of tasks challenge phase. Social competence is the ability to modify
[47-50]. Glucocorticoids are also critical modulators of in behaviour in response to changing social contexts, so we
social dominance status across species [35,51] and have simi- predicted high reproductive behaviour (such as reproductive
larly been shown to affect cognitive performance ([34], for displays or relative time spent near females) in the reproduc-
review see [45]). In Florida scrub-jays, for example, associat- tive opportunity phase, and then a change in behaviour once
ive learning and reversal learning are inversely related and the male challenger was revealed. We expected the specific
depend on corticosterone exposure early in life [52]. The behavioural change would depend on the dominance status
role of glucocorticoids both in modulation exploratory behav- of the focal male, with males who had recently ascended in