assessed. For instance, assessing hierarchy dynamics over very short time-scales is appropriate for studies focused on
fine-scale patterns in the emergence of hierarchical social structure in small groups of short-lived animals [56]. By contrast,
assessing hierarchy dynamics over longer time-scales is more appropriate for studies of the fitness consequences of domi-
nance trajectories in large groups of long-lived species, where some individuals may only interact infrequently and the
outcome of interest (e.g. reproductive success) operates over long time-scales [15]. In this sense, we advise against a default
paradigm of assessing dynamics daily or after every interaction, as is currently typically done with the Elo-rating method.

The last challenge for measuring social mobility is identifying and accounting for uncertainty. There is a pressing need to
expand methods for detecting social mobility to account for uncertainties in rank orders. Otherwise, measurement error can
lead to the overestimation of social mobility and lead the noise of spurious social mobility to swamp the signal of true social
mobility. This is particularly challenging because it is difficult to distinguish measurement uncertainty in rank order—arising
from sampling bias, observer error and missing data—from biological uncertainty in rank relationships among individuals
[57]. In fact, because active intragenerational mobility by definition involves changing dominance relationships, biological
uncertainty in rank orders is expected to increase during periods of active mobility. Therefore, a crucial step is to develop
methods for measuring and interpreting uncertainty in estimates of social mobility. The Glicko-rating, randomized Elo-
rating and percolation and conductance (PERC) methods incorporate approaches for quantifying uncertainty around inferred
dominance ranks or scores [45,49,58], but no study has yet used these uncertainty estimates when inferring hierarchy
dynamics.

when instead they will eventually enjoy dominant status, and more tolerant of despotism by dominants [64]. Subordinate
in fact all individuals may experience relatively equal lifetime individuals with similar rank may vary in status-seeking
fitness. The dynamics of rank across development (e.g. being behaviours (e.g. information collecting, prospecting, challen-
raised by humans is associated with reduced dominance in ging dominants) that later influence their trajectory in social
juvenile greylag geese (Anser anser) [68]) and life-history status [35,70-72]. In summary, to truly understand the influ-
stages (e.g. dispersal in spotted hyenas [69]) add further ence of rank on fitness and the evolution of status-seeking