variable and often negative effect on female fitness [123-125]. tegic behaviours or social tactics in such relationships can also =
The different psychologies evoked by the two forms of correlate with dominance and prestige. Dominance is associ- =~
status should also make us expect that the pathways through ated with both coercive and complaisant (gaining influence by — ~~
which dominance and prestige increases fitness may differ. pleasing others) social tactics, in line with its dependence on Ss
For example, evidence from the Tsimane shows that men perceived cost-infliction abilities, but prestige is associated an
with either forms of status have a higher number of surviving with the use of only complaisant tactics in a WEIRD sample ~
offspring for their age; however, dominant men—as indexed 141]. The combination of complaisance and coercion suggests
by their greater physical formidability—marry younger wives that benefit provisioning may facilitate dominance-pursuit if it
and (like prestigious men) have more extra-marital affairs, increases the future effectiveness of benefit-withholding as a
whereas prestigious men marry at an earlier age and their off- threat. That the calculus of costs and benefits may easily
spring experience lower childhood mortality [120]. Other blur the line between a benefits-provisioning account for
evidence from WEIRD societies, indicates that while women prestige on one hand, and dominance on the other, points to
prefer prestigious men over dominant men when evaluating the fact that the informational goods theory more clearly
romantic partners, particularly in long-term relationships, distinguishes prestige from dominance by highlighting the
greater dominance is selectively preferred in the context of non-rivalrous and non-zero sum nature of the exchange
short-term relationships [126-129]. Traits supporting high between the prestigious and their followers.
dominance attainment may also support intrasexual compe- Dominance and prestige are also associated with distinct
tition, and many traits that serve as dominance signals, such emotional and motivational states, at least in WEIRD societies.
as vocal pitch and physical formidability, are sexually selected Dominance is associated with a facet of pride-hubristic pride—
in men in both small-scale [130,131] and large-scale societies capturing narcissism, arrogance and egotism—which are
[126-129,132]. The effects of status on female fitness, despite states that may support the antisocial behaviours, manipu-
being consistently positive in most female mammals, is more lation and strategic lying associated with pursuing
variable in human societies and less well-studied [133]. dominance rank [49]. By contrast, prestige is associated
An accumulating body of evidence strongly indicates that with authentic pride, stemming from genuine accomplish-
multiple verbal, nonverbal and physical cues reliably signal ment, which may adaptively facilitate or signal motivation,