assembled to varying levels and sequenced using different showed that ICEs, and not acr genes, are associated with
technologies within our dataset and many plasmids will increasing ABR gene accumulation in genomes with type I-C
have been missed, and (2) the database we used was built CRISPR-Cas systems, consistent with the hypothesis that
based on plasmids found in Enterobacteriaceae, and has mobile type I-C systems may be carried on ICEs that also
been shown to fail to predict plasmids in many species [45]. carry ABR genes. However, much remains to be learned
When looking at specific CRISPR-Cas types within species, about these widespread but relatively understudied type I-C
we found that, in most cases, ABR genes were lower in fre- systems to fully explain this trend [34].
quency if CRISPR-Cas was present in most cases. Two Finally, type III-A systems in S. epidermidis were associ-
exceptions were type I-C and IV systems, which were associ- ated with increased numbers of ABR genes relative to
ated with more ABR genes. These system types may be genomes lacking CRISPR-Cas. It has recently been suggested
driving the positive association we see between CRISPR-Cas that the capacity of type III-A systems to generate mutations
presence and ABR genes in our multi-species model for P. aer- via nonspecific DNase activity may be a way to offset the
uginosa. This result is also interesting in light of the fact that limitations imposed on genome evolution by CRISPR-Cas
both of these system types are frequently found to be encoded systems [47]. Therefore, genomes with these systems may
by MGEs. Type I-C systems occur on conjugative elements in generate diversity through mutation, rather than acquisition
P. aeruginosa and have been found to correlate positively with of DNA. Alternatively, there may be acr genes present in
the presence of particular ABR genes [11], while type IV these genomes blocking CRISPR-Cas activity, but owing to
CRISPR-Cas systems are usually found on plasmids, where the lack of known type III-A acr sequences this was not tested.
they can mediate inter-plasmid competition [46]. CRISPR- We do not see strong negative associations between the
Cas system types that are more mobile may co-occur with total count of spacers and the presence of ABR genes across
ABR genes found on mobile elements more frequently. Inter- most species and CRISPR-Cas system types. As the majority
estingly, the species for which we detected a_ positive of spacer targets that we could identify were viruses, which
association between ICEs and CRISPR-Cas presence in our are rarely vectors of ABR [48], the large number of anti-
multi-species model (P. aeruginosa and S. pyogenes) were also phage spacers and comparative rarity of spacers targeting
the only species to possess type I-C systems. However, this ABR vectors may obscure any trend we would otherwise