indicate genes that are preferentially lost; stars indicate sig- and genes associated with lysis are enriched in the cryptic
nificant differences. Although potentially of interest, we did prophages found in slow-growing hosts. In other words, as
not compare gene frequencies across host classes due to prophage sequences degrade and become cryptic in these
strong potential biases in phage gene identification across hosts, proteases and lysis genes are preferentially maintained
different classes of host and phage. We also note that some while other genes are lost; by contrast, in pathogens or fast-
large per cent changes (e.g. loss of lysins in pathogens) are growers, these genes are lost at a higher rate than other
not significant due to the small absolute numbers of phage phage genes.
genes identified in some classes. This result could reflect sampling or detection biases. As
Phage protein annotations in PHASTER and PATRIC mentioned previously, we excluded from analysis protein
showed a high degree of correspondence, as illustrated in classes that accounted for less than 1% of the raw counts
figures S6 and S7 in the electronic supplementary material. for each host class; proteases and lysis genes accounted for
Averaged over the fast and slow datasets, PHASTER annota- 2.14 and 1.35% of counts in slow-growing hosts, and were
tions identified 24.7% more phage proteins than PATRIC in fact the smallest protein classes that were included in the
annotations (9015 versus 7232), and also identified fewer analysis. The results could also reflect subtle mutational
protein sequences as hypothetical, with an average of 8.96 biases such as ‘deletion shielding’ (genes that are at the bor-
hypothetical protein annotations per prophage in PHASTER, ders of prophages or adjacent to selectively beneficial genes
when compared with 14.0 hypothetical proteins per proph- may be protected from deletion through selection on adjacent

age in PATRIC. Bootstrapping analysis of the PATRIC genes) [35]. Alternatively, protease and/or lysis genes could


be co-opted and confer some benefit that is particularly
advantageous for slow-growing hosts. We suggest that
further analysis of prophage gene repertoires in well-studied
phage/host systems will be necessary to offer insight into this