may be possible as more sequences are collected, and methods lated [33]. The ecological and evolutionary factors driving
developed to control for phylogenetic correlation in a mosaic large plasmid size are likely to apply similarly to phylo-
and recombining group of elements that lacks core conserved genetically diverse species, so to understand the biology of
genes, but currently, defining megaplasmids is usually achieved very large plasmids we consider it more appropriate to regard
through a rather unsatisfying process of slicing the pool of plasmid size relative to other replicons in that species. For
plasmids at an arbitrary size threshold. example, Campylobacter and Aliarchobacter plasmids of only

Thresholds for minimum megaplasmid size have thus approximately 100-150 kb can harbour greater than 7% of
varied. diCenzo and Finan’s seminal review on multipartite total genome content [35,36], which in Pseudomonas would be
genomes set the threshold at 350 kb, based on 10% of median equivalent to greater than 450 kb. In figure 2, we highlight plas-
bacterial genome size [19], while 100 kb has been used for mids that are relatively large: greater than or equal to 5% of total
other studies [20], but as genome size itself varies widely genome size for that family. Nevertheless, as the figure shows,
across phyla, the very largest plasmids in some species might even proportional thresholds artificially divide what is in fact a
be only of middling size in others (figure 2). Fixed thresholds continuous distribution, and so we emphasise that our use of

are likely to bias megaplasmids towards species with already 5% is intended to be illustrative rather than prescriptive.


Megaplasmids have also been distinguished from the other phenotypes [49-51]. Some small plasmids exist entirely as

large replicons: secondary chromosomes and ‘chromids’ [21]. mosaics from multiple contributing replicons while some

This difference is a qualitative one: chromids and secondary large plasmids have remained syntenic despite extensive diver-
chromosomes carry essential housekeeping genes found on gence in sequence [52,53]. If one were to reconceptualize
