(figures 2 and 3) presenting clear intentional anthropic modi- characterized by core shaping and a recurrence in the mor-
fications: all artefacts have several regular and large removals phology and modality of removals, which may suggest
with clear negative bulbs, and the removal orientations indi- intentional flake production prior to retouching [43,44]. These
cate clear flaking strategies (e.g. bidirectional, unidirectional, artefacts were identified along with one raw unmodified large
centripetal) [36]. These artefacts were first described as Early and thick flake and one core presenting two sequences of uni-
Acheulean in [30] based on a classic typological approach. directional removals. All detailed measurements, weight and
However, it is now broadly acknowledged that ESA lithic additional attributes are presented in a supplementary file
assemblages reveal much more variable hominin behaviours (electronic supplementary material, table S1) along with sup-
than previously stated, both during the Early and the Middle plementary photographs (electronic supplementary material,
Pleistocene [15,37-39], and that typological approaches pro- figure S1). Medium- to small-sized flakes and debris are
vide few insights into lithic assemblage variability [40]. absent from the assemblage. Indeed, we must consider this
Consequently, we considered it necessary to revisit the arte- assemblage as influenced by the sorting of larger artefacts in
facts and reassess their primary techno-cultural affiliation. the deposit. However, among the shaped tool and core tool
To do so, we conducted a qualitative technological analysis groups, we could observe some repetitive technological and
and made a diacritical sketch for each artefact, grouping the morphometrical features, suggesting an important homogen-
removals in distinct sequences according to their orientation eity in the production of these artefacts. The assemblage of
[41,42]. However, all of the pieces are slightly rolled, Elarmékora is characterized by the production of massive
making it difficult to precisely determine the removal chron- heavy-duty tools by using cobble blanks, taking advantage of

ology on every piece. The dominant raw material is quartzite their natural morphologies.


Table 1. Sample positions and measured 'Be,”°Al and 7“Al concentrations. Topographic shielding factor for all samples is 1. All samples were prepared at | 4 |
CEREGE and measured on Accélérateur pour les Sciences de la Terre, Environnement, Risques (ASTER) accelerator mass spectrometer (AMS; see §4).
