+ lacunar zone. The two outer of these layers have intercellular spaces, and evidently
form part of the inner cortex. The next layer, towards the interior (en, in fig. 4),
consists of closely-fitting cells, and a slight thickening of their radial walls can be
made out. This was almost certainly the functional endodermis. The innermost
layer, abutting on the phloém and protoxylem, consists of thin-walled cells. Now it
is remarkable that these four layers of cells are arranged, on the whole, in radial
series. The same is the case in the rootlet shown in Plate 15, photograph 5. The
© important point is that the layers which occupy the respective positions of pericycle
5 and endodermis fit on to each other as if they had had a common origin. Traces of the
same arrangement are found in other specimens, both rootlets and larger roots.t
In some of the latter the thin-walled layer is two cells thick. Outside this comes
the functional endodermis, and sometimes all three layers are in radial seriation.
Too much stress must not be laid on these facts, which are not absolutely constant.
At the same time they are not without interest, for we know that in the roots
2 of Hquisetum there is no pericycle, but a double endodermis, in which the outer
& layer alone has the typical endodermal structure, while the inner layer is thin-
= walled, and gives rise to the rootlets.{ If the indications above mentioned are to be
£ trusted it would appear that the same may have held good for the roots of Calamites,
in which case we should have to speak of the thin-walled layer immediately sur-
rounding thé stele, not as pericycle, but as inner endodermis.
The cortex of the rootlets does not differ from that of the larger roots. We find
the same three zones, of which the middle one is lacunar (see photograph 5, and
figs. 4, 5, 7, and 8). Occasionally we find cells in the cortex which have rather
thicker walls than their neighbours, and dark carbonised contents (sce fig. 4). These
_ may very probably have been secretory sacs of some kind. Similar cells also occur