gonia [13]. Overall, the depicted animal is markedly distinct of the extinct South American litopterns (figure 7; see
to all the cervids (deer) that are profusely painted at the La the electronic supplementary material for details of taxon-
Lindosa site and exhibits characteristics of South American omy, detailed morphological characteristics and habit).
camelids, possibly representing Palaeolama (see the electronic Along with differences in anatomy, Macrauchenia and
supplementary material for details of taxonomy, detailed Xenorhinotherium appear to have distinctive geographical distri-
morphological characteristics and habit). It should be noted, butions. Cartelle & Lessa [74] suggest biogeographic
however, that Palaeolama itself is noted for its elongated and segregation between Macrauchenia patachonica from Bolivia to
robust cranium, which does not closely match the painting. southern Chile and Xenorhinotherium bahiense from Brazil &
In addition, a point to keep in mind is that both Palaeolama Venezuela [75]. In the Pampas region, the presence of Macrau-
and Hemiauchenia have somewhat similar cranial and dental chenia sp. bones is documented from Arroyo Seco 2, a locality
morphologies, and their distinctions would be lost in with lithic artefacts and evidence of human hunting/scaven-
simple artistic renditions as the one in the painting. Last ging of megafaunal material dated to approximately 14.1 ka
but not least, the fact that the artistic rendering could [61]. At the Centinela del Mar locality, a date of 13.2 ka was
represent Lama or Vicugna should not be discarded. As of obtained from M. patachonica specimens, further illustrating
yet, no excavations have been conducted in the Nuevo the potential contemporaneity with early humans in South
Tolima site, and as a result, we do not have any chronological America [76]. Although the evidence is not as abundant in
information about this locality. the northwestern region, X. bahiense has been recorded from
There is little evidence in the area for the coexistence of Taima-Taima in Venezuela [77,78], a fossiliferous locality that
humans and camelids. In the Pampas region, Hemiauchenia dates to approximately 15-16.1 ka. All in all, there is a likely
bones were located at a site with lithic artefacts and mega- spatio-temporal overlap between Litopterna and early human
fauna specimens dated to approximately 14~11.2 ka, but settlers in the northwestern region of the South American land-
without any evidence to support behavioural association scape, which supports the prospect of Xenorhinotherium being

with humans [61]. At the Los Vilos site in southern Chile, represented in the La Lindosa rock art.
