pounds, production of oil for Arabidopsis thaliana [8-10], by 10 SNPs for a complex trait. We then measured our ability
grain yield under water deficit on Oryza sativa [11], or longev- to identify the causal variants via GWAS on five subsets of
ity using the DGRP dataset for Drosophila melanogaster [12]. the 1011 genomes as well as the full dataset (see Material
The power of these kind of studies comes with the integration and methods). Our results suggest that associations are
of multi-omics data [13]. However, this strategy has some easily found for Mendelian traits, with the exception of one
major limitations including the important multiple testing dataset showing a very high type-I error rate due to cryptic
burden, the modest proportion of the estimated heritability relatedness. Regarding the association with more complex
explained by associated genetic variants, and the difficulty phenotypes, performance varies considerably between the
in detecting common variants with small effects or rare cohorts used, with some causal variants left unidentified
causal variants. due to their small effect size. Together, these results under-
Despite being a widely used model organism for genetics, score the need for careful selection of individuals from the
yeasts, and more precisely S. cerevisiae, are under-represented total dataset when running GWAS. The size of the population
model organisms for GWAS. This is mainly due to the fact is of great importance, as predicted by previous studies, but
that a large number of natural isolates have only recently the presence of confounding factors sometimes leads to unre-
been sequenced [4]. They are nonetheless ideal to conduct liable results. Certain phenotypic properties also modify the
surveys of population genomics for several reasons. First, power of detection, such as the effect size or the complexity
their genomes are small and compact (around 12 Mb) and of the phenotype. Finally, we present an example of an
are therefore relatively easy to sequence. Second, yeast can association using the copper sulfate resistance phenotype, a
be isolated from a broad range of ecological and geographical well-known simple trait in S. cerevisiae, to see if the results
origins, thus maximizing the genetic and phenotypic follow our simulations.

diversity within the studied species. Finally, regarding the
dissection of the genotype-phenotype relationship, yeasts

have the advantage of forming clonal colonies, allowing phe- 2. Material and methods