we see that the 1011 strains dataset shows the lowest p-value the sake and the European wine subpopulations. In fact,
(4.9 x 10-"), followed by the European wine dataset (6.03 x additional simulations would be very useful in order to test
10-1’) and the sampled diversity dataset (1.04 x 10). These more precisely for other variables that could have an impact
results are consistent with our simulations, as the 1011 strains on the results of the GWAS, such as genetic diversity, variation
and the sampled diversity datasets were the ones that in heritability and size effect distribution.

showed the best results. The detection of the CUP1-2 gene for The results of our associations vary considerably from one
the European wine subpopulation is attributed to the evol- cohort to another, allowing us to evaluate the limits of GWAS
utionary history of this population, and its link with human and present what would constitute an ideal dataset for associ-
activity. Indeed, in that case, the acquisition of resistance to ation studies. For mapping a Mendelian trait, the sampled
copper sulfate is certainly reflecting convergent evolution due diversity set is the best, with the fewest false positives, and is
to human selection for industrial processes [28], thus emphasiz- followed by the total dataset with 1011 strains. When the trait
ing the fact that dataset composition also depends on the is complex, the entire population has the advantage of map-
phenotype of interest. ping more causal variants than any other. In addition, the

false positive rate is close to that we observe for the sampled

diversity dataset, which has, as for a Mendelian trait, the
4. Discussion lowest value. It is now evident that the sake cluster is poorly
suited to perform GWAS. First, the number of sequences com-
posing this dataset is too low and therefore does not provide
sufficient statistical power for trustworthy associations.
Second, the strains composing this cluster are very close to
each other and all share large parts of the genome due to the
fact that the common ancestor is very recent compared to