elements’ [24, p. 7]. This then licenses the conclusion that ‘[a] different ways across different organisms and species to = &
baboon’s assessment of call meaning thus constitutes a discrete, serve a diverse array of purposes. These three points, there- iat
combinatorial, rule-governed and open-ended system of com- fore, suggest that, rather than looking for human-like 4
munication in which a finite number of signals can yield a cognitive representations in the neocortex of non-humans, s
nearly unlimited number of meanings’ [24, p. 7], a definition a more productive research programme would attempt to Ss
that non-coincidentally maps neatly onto the definition of understand how both human and non-human cognition w
human language, such that ‘several of the cognitive mechan- emerge from the reuse of systems that have evolved for

isms that have long been thought to mark a clear separation embodied sensory-motor control.

between language and non-human primate communication In what follows, we offer a brief review of recent work on

can, in fact, be found—in admittedly simpler form—in the the selection pressures shaping primate brains, consider how
communication and social cognition of non-human primates.’ work on primate visual and motor systems provides an

[24, p. 7]. Thus, although sensitivity to social signals and alternative view of the complexities of primate social life,

cues obviously informs the design of these studies, and is and conclude with a consideration of some of the impli-

also relied on to provide the empirical evidence, the questions cations of non-cortical, particularly cerebellar, evolution.

of interest are not related to a sensitivity to social signals/cues Our suggestion is that a focus on embodied action may

per se. The focus, instead, is on whether the animals possess the open up our understanding of primate brain neurocognitive
ability to make inferences about the underlying causes that pro- evolution in ways that recognize the somewhat messy and