
Figure 5. An overview of glucosinolate biosynthetic loci associated with GSL variation in the TOU-A population. The diagram shows each enzyme-catalyzed step,
beginning with the amino acid precursor (Met or Trp). Genes harbouring significant GWAS associations in TOU-A are listed at the biosynthetic step they catalyze.
Bolded genes are novel associations, defined as those significantly associated in TOU-A but not in our re-analysis of three datasets with geographically broad = 'S
European mapping panels. A ‘+’ indicates that multiple paralogous genes at a locus could contribute to the association (e.g. CYP79F1 and CYP79F2 are represented =
as CYP79F+). The pathway and enzyme positions are based on Harun et al. [31]. Note that additional steps producing GSLs that accumulate only at very low levels

in leaves are omitted. (Online version in colour.)

relative to the broader European population. Theory predicts of-function mutations underlie dramatic epistatic effects,
that allelic heterogeneity, which poses a major obstacle for which may dilute additive effects modelled by GWAS. An
GWAS, will be more pervasive in more genetically diverse extreme example involves the GS-OH locus that catalyzes
populations. Further, the fact that diversity was reduced in the final secondary modification in the biosynthetic pathway
TOU-A primarily through a relative deficit of rare variants, (figure 5): loss of function alleles at upstream enzymes fully
as expected if rare variants are geographically restricted and mask the effect of GS-OH on GSL variation in the majority
therefore locally more common [26], likely provides an of genetic backgrounds in Arabidopsis, and GS-OH itself
additional benefit. Rare variants are not only poorly detected segregates numerous loss-of-function alleles [13]. Of the
through GWAS, but their presence can obscure true associ- three major large-effect loci mapped in other GWAS of ali-
ations at causal loci [62]. Consistent with this, GWAS has phatic GSLs, only GS-OH has failed to consistently yield
uncovered more associations and a broader (albeit largely associations across previous analyses [6,13,32,34].
unvalidated) functional repertoire of underlying candidate Although statistical approaches exist to mitigate geographi-
genes—including biosynthetic enzymes, transcription factors, cally driven confounding factors, they cannot entirely control
and transporters—across cultivars of Brassica napus than in for them. For example, GWAS models can be extended to include
European panels of Arabidopsis [63-65]. Brassica napus cultivars epistatic interactions alongside, or instead of, additive effects
are less genetically diverse and have an excess of common var- [67]. However, the immense number of possible pairwise inter-