introduced the first kind of elaboration, from the (unimodal) Ss
7. Generative models for simple behavioural homeostat to the (multimodal) allostat. A second kind of =
elaboration is the duplication of predictive motifs, which >=
control enlarges the animal’s behavioural repertoire. The third and 3
The ‘homeostat’ and the ‘allostat’ permit the control of simple fourth dimensions equip the generative model with temporal =
forms of swimming, locomotion, reaching and other movements and/or hierarchical depth, respectively. These two expansions 5
[29]. One biological example is provided by a zebrafish virtual enable richer predictive motifs that endow a cognitive sophis- =
reality study [30], which identified the neuronal underpinnings tication, such as the possibility to plan or consider events that = >
of error correction during escape behaviour in the animal tele- change on multiple timescales [33]. ~
ncephalon: an evolutionarily conserved set of brain circuits Figure 4 illustrates these four dimensions as if they were =
involved in action selection in other vertebrates (including operations of an ‘evolutionary algebra’ that defines the poss- =
mammals), such as the cortico-basal ganglia circuit [31]. ible landscape of generative models (note that the algebra a
In this study, animals were placed in a white start zone, also includes an ‘identity’ operation, to account for the fact =
which then become blue (aversive) or red (safe). If the start that generative models can stay the same). In what follows, g
zone turned blue, the animal had to move forward to reach we discuss the duplicative and hierarchical operations—and =
a red zone (GO trials). If the start zone turned red, the their biological relevance. ]
animal had to stay (NOGO trials). Failing to reach (or pad
remain in) the safe zone resulted in an electric shock. . . - . . Ss
The study identified a neuronal ensemble that codes for a 9. Duplicating predictive motifs enables multiple 2
colour-based rule (i.e. ‘red is good’) and a separate neural behaviours
ensemble (in one-third of fish) that codes for a prediction
error: a discrepancy between the predicted visual sensations Generative models can expand by duplicating simple
of backward movement of the landscape during swimming predictive motifs, to form a larger repertoire of species-
and the actual visual input. Interestingly, the fish with the specific behaviours, such as approach, avoidance, the control
latter ensemble were more effective in avoidance behaviour. of the vibrissae [34] and visually guided grasping. The oper-