hidden states (x*) of the ‘true’ process in the world (called
generative process) that actually produce the organism’s sen-
sations (y); see figure 2 for an illustration of this difference. In 5. Generative models for the homeostatic control

other words, the models we use to explain our sensorium

may include hidden states that do not exist in the outside of interoceptive variables a
world, and vice versa. To the extent that an animal’s genera- The generative models shown in figure 3 afford the homeo- — __
tive model is adequate to steer adaptive behaviour, the way static (figure 3a, ‘homeostat’) and allostatic (figure 3c, =
it ‘carves nature’ is not important. ‘allostat’) regulation of a single interoceptive variable, which = 5
As noted above, effective generative models also diverge we call here ‘body temperature’ for illustrative purposes; see =
systematically from environmental statistics. Most notably, [20] for a fully specified example. The (observable) variable y =
some priors p(x)—such as the fact that body temperature fluc- denotes the thermoreceptor activation and the (hidden) vari- =
tuates around 37°—can be considered prescriptive goals that able x denotes body temperature. The model infers the =
characterize the organism in terms of its prior preferences posterior belief over x by combining the prior belief over x = 4
(‘how the world should be’), rather than statements about the and the interoceptive sensation y. The prior belief plays the s
environment. While in standard Bayesian treatments priors role of a cybernetic set point to ensure that body temperature Ss
are constantly updated during inference (following the motto remains fixed at 37°. ree
that ‘today’s posterior is tomorrow’s prior’), in active inference Much like a thermostat, this model maintains the requisite
some priors remain constant, because they have very high pre- temperature by reporting the discrepancy between predicted
cision (and are, therefore, very recalcitrant to updating). In this and sensed thermoreceptor activation, given (Bayesian) beliefs
way, they can function as set points that promote homeostasis. about temperature, triggering an autonomic reflex (u) resulting
Nevertheless, these innate priors can be updated at slower (e.g. in, for example, vasodilatation, which resolves the prediction
evolutionary) timescales [21], hence allowing organisms to error. The functioning of this model can be appreciated by con-
‘learn their preferences’ and adapt to their niches. sidering the (fictive) example of homeostatic control shown in