3 92 1 ; different loci modulates indirect selection on local allele fre-
= Pii(X, t= soi (x, t) +=(@ — wy)py +- 7D. quencies [6,23,25], which can lead to shifts in cline position
at ox 8 8 in spatially heterogeneous models [25] and affect the shape
At first order, the fitness difference between the haplotype ij of spatially coinciding clines [6]. In our spatially homogeneous
and the mean fitness is proportional to s, so that the second model, linkage disequilibrium creates a fitness advantage for
term of the right-hand side is independent of s. For r=0, both the a and B alleles in the central region (see electronic
the equation is thus dimensionless, and for r > 0 we can intro- supplementary material, figure S3 for a detailed explanation
duce another re-scaled parameter, r/s (the inverse of the in terms of haplotype frequencies), inducing movement of
coupling coefficient introduced by Barton [24]), that measures the A cline to the right and the B cline to the left. When
the strength of recombination relative to selection. recombination is sufficiently strong, linkage disequilibrium
Figure 3 shows an example for numerical solutions of this is mitigated (electronic supplementary material, figure S4),
system of partial differential equations. The spatial width of a and the fitness advantage of the alleles between the clines is
cline is proportional to x9 = Jas, in agreement with the fact reduced, leading to slower movement of the clines.
that dispersal tends to homogenize allele frequencies across Figure 4 investigates the time it takes until two clines
the cline whereas selection tends to remove unfit heterozy- spatially align as a function of their initial distance, the selec-
gotes from the population and steepen the cline [6]. We find tion intensity, the diffusion parameter, and the recombination

that two clines at different loci will tend to spatially align rate. We find that clines will always couple, but over longer


time spans when recombination is higher or the initial dis- frequencies established during surfing events. We derived | 6 |

tance between clines is greater. The time it takes for clines the probability that underdominant mutations successfully
to spatially align increases exponentially with increasing re- establish at the expansion front in a serial founder event
scaled initial distance (for a given r and a given s). Further- model (figure 1). Unlike deleterious mutations that can lead