environmental B 84.5 4.940 0.0269 =
=
=
controls (table 2; electronic supplementary material, tables S4, outbreaks will be hard to anticipate, though they did havea = >
S15, S25, S26, S28, S38, S39). The importance of these eco- tendency to be viral and use vector-borne transmission =
environmental drivers is especially surprising given the more frequently than the diseases of background outbreaks = &
potential bias in our data sources towards clinical drivers. (table 4; electronic supplementary material, tables S10, S41, =
The importance of changes in vector abundance is also some- S42, S45, S46). However, the relative frequency of diseases Py
what surprising given that we excluded malaria from our was somewhat different between the two datasets (electronic
analyses. Frequently in large outbreaks, it was reported that supplementary material, table S5). Typhoid (including enteric Ss
a month of unusually high rainfall caused a population fever) and shigellosis (dysentery) were among the five most ow
explosion of vectors such as mosquitoes, which led, in turn, common diseases in both the background and top 100
to many cases of vector-borne illness [87-89]. In fact, both outbreaks (electronic supplementary material, figure S2). By
weather conditions and changes in vector abundance were contrast, the rest of the top five differed considerably, with
putative drivers of 16 of the 100 largest outbreaks. Poor three bacterial diseases (salmonellosis, anthrax and tuberculo-
sewage management (including sewage system failures), in sis) and three viral diseases (hepatitis E, influenza and
part a socioeconomic factor, was also frequently recognized Japanese encephalitis) rounding out the background and top
as a driver of large outbreaks (table 2; electronic supplemen- 100, respectively. Perhaps related to the high frequency of
tary material, tables $4, S23, S36). Sewage management could anthrax and salmonellosis, food contamination was much
also be considered an environmental hazard, as it was a more commonly found to be a driver in the background
contributing factor in roughly half of the cases involving than in large outbreaks (table 2; electronic supplementary
water contamination (electronic supplementary material, material, tables S3, S16, S29).
tables S8 and S9). The overall biological profile (taxon and transmission modes)
Our results also imply that failures of societal and medical of pathogens that cause large outbreaks was also different from
resources may tend to be important in large outbreaks. War that of controls (table 4; electronic supplementary material,