tebrates first stepped on land. Foremost, examining what of an animal’s nervous system on entering new environments.
visuomotor integration problems the various reptile taxa Large mammals are literally the most visible, but there is a sub-
faced, and what forebrain brain regions were brought in stantial cohort of marine ‘rodents’ that is largely unstudied (the
would be exceptionally useful. Using available information exact classification of many small mammals remains in flux)
in a neuroecological light might be useful in finding continu- [163]. Because for mammals breathing to smell underwater
ity in visuomotor evolution—that is, by viewing the small would result in drowning, olfaction is sacrificed to respiration
nocturnal rodent or shrew as a fish, with similar strong limit- in this group [103]. Vision must lose dominance, while echolo-
ations on the visual information they can use. Target cation arises numerous times, though rather little is known
acquisition in mice is primarily done by head/body orien- about the neural substrates of marine mammal echolocation.
tation, though there are some eye movements. Their The ability for dexterous manipulation is often lost in favour
compact head and limb structure (contrast ungulates, or diur- of streamlining, even though the ability to stow such useful
nal carnivores) may allow adequate remapping within the appendages during rapid motion would not appear to require
fixed tectal structure, and in fact, the midbrain tectum extensive modification of either, as various otters testify.
remains comparatively large in this group. The stabilization of the push-pull relationship of the
Finally, the general availability of comparative infor- embryonic separation and adult contrast of computational
mation should be noted. With the proliferation of corpora abilities in the neocortex versus the olfactory-hippocampal
of genetic, morphological and neurochemical descriptions system described here clearly requires much more scrutiny.
of model systems ‘from fish to man’, including the exhaustive We have advanced the hypothesis that the embryonic and

cataloguing of every connection and cell class in the mouse early developmental establishment of both systems—


neocortex requiring rough simultaneity in physically neigh- the amount and duration of memory will be related to El

bouring neurons to reach its basic structure of iterated brain size [252]. The present paper marks one first foray