is a second threshold Ks,2 with Ks,,2 > Ks, (see below), which islands (given Ks, Ku), suggesting a key role of the demo- 5!
separates parameter regimes characterized by qualitatively graphic effects of migration. We can obtain an explicit =
different effects of migration on population outcomes: for expression for the threshold m,, in the limit K > oo (so that >
Ks > Ks,2, increasing migration destabilizes the sink state, so Mo =110/(ro K), which governs the demographic effects of <
that only the large-population state persists above a migration migration, is negligible): i]
threshold im,1, whereas for Ks,<Ks<Ks,, increasing S
migration destabilizes the large-population state, so that only LSp™ —1 NS
the sink state persists above a threshold m,. However, such Mel ~ FT LSpepe) + 2m — pe] ** K>e BI) 8
migration-fed sink populations can be quite large: above a =
third threshold m.3, populations may even have sufficient Interestingly, this threshold depends only on the load, -
heterozygosity to again attain a low-load (r, < ro) state. Lsp®(p™ +2h1 —p)), and breeding value, LSp™,
To what extent can we attribute such qualitative changes among migrants, and is independent of Ks and Ku: this
in population outcomes to the genetic versus demographic simply reflects the fact that the growth rate of a very small
effects of migration? As before, one approach is to compare population (just after recolonization) depends primarily on
critical thresholds for populations with the same scaled par- the genetic composition of founders (and not selection on
ameters Ks, Ku, 2LU=2L(u/1) and h, while increasing the their subsequent descendants). Thus, the critical level of
carrying capacity K (simultaneously increasing L and lower- migration required to prevent a genetic Allee effect in the
ing u, s). Then, as K increases, the demographic effects of limit of very large carrying capacities is also independent of
migration (which depend on the dimensionless parameter Ks and Ku.
Mo =mo/(roK); see equation (2.1)) can be neglected, while The threshold m,, which signals the collapse of the large-
its genetic effects on load (which depend on Ks, Ku and mo) population state, is less sensitive to K: this is consistent with
remain important. our expectation that demographic effects of migration should
Figure 3 shows these comparisons for two dominance be less important when numbers are larger. There is, never-
values—h = 0.02 (figure 3a,b) and h=0.1 (figure 3c,d). Note theless, a moderate decrease in m2 with K, which can be
that we only consider predictions of the semi-deterministic rationalized as follows: the (detrimental) genetic effects of