higher effective population size (N,) in the absence of compe- offs, responses to one environmental variable might affect =
titors) and the models reviewed above. In a study of vernal responses to other variables. To further explore the potential 3
pools, where annual plants have species-specific depth of the ‘trade-offs’ pathway to affect range limits, we next
ranges, Emery & Ackerly [52] combined transplant and com- examine a complementary approach in which the environ-
petitor-removal experiments to assess a focal species’ ment consists of a biotic and an abiotic variable and a
adaptive potential. They showed that competitor removal species’ fitness is governed by trade-offs in response to
enabled ecological release, allowing the species to occupy biotic and abiotic stress. This type of model uses reaction
depths outside its normal range. Competitor removal also norms that are agnostic to the genetic and mechanistic basis
exposed genetic variation at the niche edge that was other- of trade-offs, which may include physiological or develop-
wise masked [52], though it is unclear whether this reflects mental constraints on trait evolution, or antagonistic
the demographic pathway (e.g. higher N.) or trade-off path- selection on the same set of traits or genetic loci (see discus-
way (i.e. variation no longer constrained by interactions). sion in [18]). Furthermore, the model makes no assumptions
Either way, the fact that competitor removal increased about population size, and is, therefore, independent of any
expressed variation implies that evolution could expand the effects of ecological release on adaptation that operate via
species’ niche and range limits in the absence, but not the the first, demographic pathway. While not a formal evol-
presence, of competitors. utionary model, our approach allows us to illustrate the
While evidence exists that trade-offs between traits under potential evolutionary consequences of selection for geno-
selection might contribute to setting range limits [53], there types differing in a given trade-off as environments change.
are few specific investigations into whether interspecific inter- We note that this model is applicable to different modes of
actions are involved in these trade-offs. Trade-offs can arise reproduction and inheritance, but its predictions are most
when the abiotic and biotic environments impose antagon- intuitive for clonally evolving species with asexual reproduction
istic selection on a common trait. For example, Olsen et al. and high homozygosity.
[54] created experimental crosses between high- and low- We describe a simple modification of the classic Lotka-
elevation populations of the small perennial plant Boechera Volterra model. Like previous models, we assume the
stricta to expose genetic variation in trait combinations, then growth rate of a population (or genotype) follows a Gaussian