ocular-derived structures (contra [27]). Although the main pair has a similar—albeit more robust—overall endopodite =
body axis is demarcated by a difference in coloration relative organization, but differs substantially in the morphology of | =
to the lateral areas of the cephalon, there is no indication of other components. The protopodite bears gnathobases along =
an elevated axial region or furrows. Previous studies have with the ventral margin consisting of two or three densely = &
interpreted the presence of a rostral plate or anterior sclerite populated rows of delicate spinose endites (figure 1f). The =
in the type material of Pygmaclypeatus daziensis (e.g. exopodite is fully developed, consisting of a sub-triangular
[10,26,37,38]). Close examination of our material, including proximal base attached to the protopodite, and which bears s
micro-CT data, does not demonstrate the presence of a discrete up to six thick paddle-shaped lamellae (figure 2c). Each of = =
anterior sclerite. Instead, the anterior margin of the head the paddle-shaped lamellae shows a preferential preservation 2
shield frequently features a transverse narrow band that along the edges, suggesting that this region had strengthened
appears to be a compaction artefact produced by the direct cuticle relative to the interior face of the paddle. Within each
contact between the head shield and the ventral hypostome exopodite, only the most distal paddle-shaped lamella bears
(figure 2d). We find no evidence of an anterior sclerite in a series of short marginal setae (figure 2c); the fact that this pat-
P. daziensis. tern is observed in several appendage pairs argues that this

The ventral side of the cephalon includes a hypostome, a organization is not the result of a preservation artefact and
pair of uniramous antennae and four pairs of post-antennal instead suggests that it is a legitimate biological feature. The
biramous appendages (figures 1d,f and 2a,d). The hypostome variable orientation in the preservation of the paddle-shaped
is conterminant, directly attached to the anterior margin of lamellae, as seen from dorsal view, indicates that these struc-
the cephalon. The hypostome transversely covers ca 33% tures were freely articulated and allowed some degree of
of the width of the cephalon and extends posteriorly to ca motion through pivoting relative to the exopodite lobe
50% of the length of the cephalon, completely covering the (figure 2a,d).
proximal bases of two post-antennal appendages. Morpho- The trunk of P. daziensis consists of six freely articulating
logically, the hypostome has a rounded posterior margin, tergites that overlap widely with each other (figure 1a,b). The
including a small median notch that most likely indicates trunk makes up approximately 50% of the total body length