that differ from those of the Chengjiang biota, demonstrat-
ing different Cambrian ecosystems across environmental

(a) Origin and early diversification of multicellular

organisms gradients [14] (figure 1g,h). There are also other important
For most of the 4.6-billion-years of Earth’s history, the Earth Cambrian Lagerstatten in China, such as Kuanchuanpu
was dominated by single-celled organisms until the Edia- [23], Xiaoshiba [24], Guanshan [25] and Kaili [26].
caran period at 635-541 million years ago (Ma), when In this issue, we present four of the latest research articles
abundant, complex, multicellular organisms started to on the origin and early diversification of multicellular organ-
appear globally. However, the affinities and evolutionary isms. The affinities of Ediacaran embryo-like fossils (EELFs)
implications of Ediacaran fossils have long been a subject of from the Weng’an biota remain highly debated, which ham-
debate due to their bizarre body plans, and the fact that pered our understanding of their full evolutionary
most Ediacaran organisms became extinct at the Ediacaran— implications. To test competing hypotheses, Yin et al. [27]
Cambrian boundary at 541 Ma. Shortly after the boundary, reconstructed a large number of Weng’an EELFs using sub-
all major animal groups suddenly appeared in the Cambrian micron resolution X-ray tomographic microscopy, with a
fossil record, and this landmark evolutionary event is known particular focus on their cell division pattern, associated
as the ‘Cambrian Explosion’. Therefore, Ediacaran and Cam- developmental mechanisms and features of cell differen-
brian fossils are crucial for understanding key evolutionary tiation. The results demonstrate that the diversity and
events from the appearance of multicellular organisms to complexity of the developmental mechanisms of these
the early radiation of animal life, which remains one of the EELFs are much higher than previously thought, and hence
most challenging frontiers of palaeontological research. constrain their affinity as total-group metazoans.
China has the most complete and fossiliferous strata covering After nearly four decades of research, new species of
the Ediacaran to Cambrian periods that we know of so far, organisms are still being reported from the Chengjiang
including a dozen world-famous exceptionally well-pre- biota every year. Arthropods dominate this Cambrian