Pn ee needed to track the optimum induces too great a demo-
genetic limits graphic cost for selection to overcome genetic drift as well
The maximum rate of adaptation of any trait is determined as other stochastic effects on allele frequency (figure 1a). At
by the amount of additive genetic variance in fitness [2]. such points, as a population fails to track the optimum in
However, such genetic variance in fitness comes at a cost in space or time, its lag load increases, causing local reductions
terms of population mean fitness because it also means that in population density. In terms of adaptation to spatial
not all phenotypes match the local optimum [3]. In the gradients, this effect is extremely abrupt because, at such
1950s, Haldane [4,5] introduced the concept of genetic load locations, asymmetrical gene flow from neighbouring (and
to predict when and where alleles replace each other in well-adapted) high density populations can then swamp
time and space. Haldane [4] first suggested that gene flow adaptation, increasing the lag load still further. At such key
from the centre of a range causes maladaptation at ecological points along an ecological gradient, these processes generate
margins, leading to a kind of ‘maladaptation’ or ‘spatial lag’ a range margin where density is too low for locally adapted
load, although the concept of ‘lag load’ was more clearly out- alleles to increase in frequency, even though (in fact, because)
lined by Maynard Smith [6], and then applied in terms of they are continually supplied with genetic variation from
adaptation to a temporally moving optimum by Pease et al. larger populations within dispersal range.
[7] and Lynch & Lande [8]. Models of ecological margins that connect population
Haldane [5] also asked how changing the frequency of genetics with population ecology in this way provide an
one allele relative to another reduces population mean fitness important framework to predict when and where evolution
for a given number of generations. This ‘Substitution Load’ is in response to environmental change is possible (see reviews
determined by the starting allele frequency. However, the by [1,14-17]). Such models of ecological margins can usefully
change in frequency this load achieves (across a number of be split into two types:
generations, determined by selection strength) increases
mean fitness (and therefore population size) because it (i) ecological models of adaptation assume a global or
moves the population trait mean closer to the local optimum. fundamental limit to niche width, where the pheno-
Bulmer [9] then distinguished substitutional load from types accessible by evolution cannot prevent low