Figure 4. Elongated embryo-like fossils at early cleavage stages. (a-k) Three specimens at 2-cell stage. (/-r) A specimen at 8-cell stage. (a,d,9,h,,m) Surface
renderings. (b,e,/,5,t) Orthoslices showing cell division inside. (c,f,,k) Transparent renderings showing internal cells; note the small spherical intercellular structures
in (j) and (k). (n-r) Volume renderings from different perspectives, showing the cleavage pattern of the cells. (u,w-z) Close-up views of the framed areas in
(b),(/),(s) and (t); (v) cross-section with position indicated in (d); (u,v) displaying the deformed cell boundaries altered during post-mortem and diagenetic process;
(w,x) showing details of small intercellular granules (arrows); (y,z) showing cell nuclei—the boundaries of the nuclei are indicated by dotted lines in (y*) and (z*).
n, nucleus.

through each developmental stage. Meanwhile, the cap of 8-cell stage (figure 4/-t). All the specimens at different cleavage
small cells grew larger from early to later stages and even- stages are similar to each other in size, around 1 mm long and
tually embraced the giant cell, probably via cell migration 0.4-0.5mm wide, suggesting that they were undergoing
(figure 31s). Fourth, most specimens illustrated in figure 3 palintomic cell division. These elongate cleaving specimens
are naked, without envelopes, but the complete specimens have an ornamented envelope (figure 4¢,h), similar to those
in fact possess bi-layered envelopes, and the inner layer in spherical cleaving EELFs reported previously (electronic
is thin and smooth (figure 3a,b,e,f; electronic supplemen- supplementary material, figure S1 K-Q). Nevertheless, many
tary material, figure S2A-D) while the outer layer is cleaving EELFs had secondarily lost their ornamented envel-
thick and ornamented (electronic supplementary material, opes (figure 4a-fl,m). The two cells of the specimens in
figure S2B-D), making them different from the type 1 figure 4a—k detach from each other after cytokinesis. Such a fea-
EELFs (electronic supplementary material, figure S1), ture resulted from degradation during post-mortem processes.
though both specimens have been assigned to the same This interpretation is supported by taphonomic experiments
morphological taxon, Megasphaera ornata [18]. Finally, excep- showing that embryonic cells of living sea urchins became
tionally preserved subcellular granules with spherical or rounded and disaggregated during initial degradation [43].
oval shapes can be observed in the majority of these EELFs In the specimen displayed in figure 4n-t, the cleaving cells
(electronic supplementary material, figure S3). Different with tightly sutured polyhedral shapes maintain their original
from fossilized nuclei, the granules always appear in large geometric relations.
