Gq pathway, which increases intracellular calcium and can cohoused with their siblings. Intriguingly, for paired females
synergistically facilitate postsynaptic activity-dependent that preferred their partner in a social preference test, the
eCB release [63]. The function of such coupling may be to strength of potentiation correlated with this preference,
shape the spatio-temporal pattern of synaptic inputs onto suggesting that this potentiation has a behavioural relevance.
postsynaptic neurons that express OXTRs. For instance, hypo- Furthermore, the TGOT-triggered potentiation was dependent
thalamic oxytocinergic neurons express OXTR, so ambient on CB1 receptor activation since preincubation with the CB1
oxytocin binding those OXTRs elevates intracellular calcium, receptor antagonist AM4113 prevented it. Importantly, CB1
increasing eCB signalling. ECBs then retrogradely act on pre- receptor activation with the agonist ACEA also potentiated
synaptic GABAergic neurons to inhibit the release of synaptic transmission by itself but did so independently of the
GABA back onto oxytocinergic neurons [83]. Such oxytocin- female’s previous socio-sexual experience, demonstrating that
dependent tonic inhibition of presynaptic GABA release eCBs inherently modulate NAc activity irrespective of social
predisposes these synapses to quickly facilitate GABA release history or social neuromodulators. What is striking then, is
upon presynaptic burst firing, which then strongly disrupts the fact that forming a pair bond creates a de novo coupling
firing in the postsynaptic oxytocinergic neurons. Hence, between oxytocin and eCBs in the NAc of female prairie
eCB-mediated retrograde regulation via oxytocin effectively voles (figure 2). This mechanism might therefore provide the
allows oxytocinergic neurons to temporally filter their experience-dependent neural substrate for the rewarding
own inputs. Oxytocin-eCB interactions can also suppress aspects of partner-specific social interactions to motivate
transmission at glutamatergic synapses [84], and a similar oxy- prosocial behaviour.
tocin-dependent filtering mechanism can act to suppress Besides showing how oxytocin’s downstream actions
excitatory presynaptic inputs—but only those where CB1 through other neuromodulators can be newly recruited by
receptors are specifically found [85]. In vivo, social contact experience, our study also found another way that experience
triggers the release of anandamide in the NAc of mice to introduces variation in oxytocin’s mechanistic effects. Like
mediate the reward of social interactions in an oxytocin others before [86,87], we saw that oxytocin impacts the
signalling-dependent manner [59]. Taken together, interactions signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in neurotransmission, but went
between oxytocin and eCBs could provide a mechanism for further to demonstrate that pair bonding influences how this