whether this constraint is due to an inability to comprehend municating in order to coordinate does not come naturally
helpful intent or due to setting-related factors, such as differ- and easily to chimpanzees’ [44]. This latter notion is also
ences in proximal versus distal setups, kin and dominance hard to reconcile with the rich evidence on highly flexible
relationships, or methodological limitations. communicative strategies deployed for the solicitation and

Yet, despite the relevance of ostensive-inferential com- coordination of joint activities like consortship [66], social
munication in human evolution [3,44], it remains among one grooming [27,67,68] and social play [30,69-72].
of the most obscure features of the interaction engine. This is Moreover, experimentally induced cooperative inter-
partly due to the inherent difficulty of operationalizing such actions might not deliver the same information as
concepts for comparative research. By observation alone we naturalistic and spontaneous social action coordination
will never have access to a social agent's internal cognitive pro- between conspecifics, and vice versa, because the decision-
cesses, and without the presence of language in other species making is based on different motivational processes (‘food
we directly depend on external behavioural indications that reward’ versus ‘social reward’). The fact that apes do not
can at best be suggestive of higher-order intentions or the coordinate or communicate habitually in experimental
lack thereof. In her opinion piece, Christine Sievers [34] cooperation settings does not preclude that they would do
addresses this issue by illustrating how nonhuman species so in their every day multimodal social interactions, the
are denied an ostensive communicative capacity based on native context of their species-typical communication. The
a priori theoretical exclusion. Sievers argues that ostensive point here is not that experiments are irrelevant, but
communication requires theoretical re-analysis to enable com- that research programmes might benefit from a more inclusive
parative investigation and that the theory should be study design. This could entail a better integration of obser-
constructed based on empirical evidence rather than concep- vational and experimental data and more ecologically valid
tual presumptions. She advocates a better interactional experiments, fitting a species’ natural behaviour (e.g. inter-
understanding of how nonverbal communication naturally ruptions during spontaneous social grooming and
unfolds in animal communication, thereby considering the conspecifics interacting with one another [27]; attention
individuals’ shared interactional experience. directed towards conspecifics’ communicative signals or