data well, both quantitatively and qualitatively. The model ling can be used as a powerful tool to study great ape
predictions go in the same qualitative direction as the data, communication. In the next section, we explore ways in
predicting more negative reactions when more were observed. which we can use this tool to theorize about some potential
Furthermore, many of the model predictions also align quanti- differences between ape and human communication.
tatively with the data, resulting in a high correlation between
the two (figure 2b). Let us take a closer look at some of these . op
patterns. In most cases, the qualitative pattern in the data 6. Pragmatics as an amplifier
was the same for both gesture types. For example, in a negative In their description of the interaction engine, Levinson &
context (figure 2 only includes the negative context), with a Holler [2] point out that ‘language is the tip of an iceberg
subordinate sender and a neutral facial expression, no matter riding on a deep infrastructure of communicational abilities’.
if a bent or a stretched-arm gesture was used, there were Part of this deep infrastructure is pragmatics. As noted in §1,
more affiliative reactions. Our model predicts this pattern the central idea is that utterances are not interpreted at face
despite the fact that we took the stretched-arm gesture to be value, but that receivers go beyond the literal and make infer-
associated with a negative intention. The reason for this ences about why the sender produced a particular utterance

is that both gestures were assumed to have weak meanings. in context. A cornerstone of this reasoning is the assumption


(a) (b)

= =
e e

Figure 3. Schematic depiction of the added pragmatic reasoning component. The literal receiver (a) only reasons about the gesture whereas the pragmatic receiver
(b) reasons about why the sender produced that particular gesture. The pragmatic receiver further expects the sender to produce the gesture with the goal of being