olds (but not 2.5-year-olds) keep working with partners on even before the human lineage.
a joint task after having received an individual reward, A closer look at the account of joint commitment as a pro-
until the partner also receives their reward [38]. cess of reciprocal expressions of readiness to be committed
Whether nonhuman animals pass the gold standard is becoming common ground suggests it may not even consti-
controversial. An influential study [35] found that chimpan- tute a necessary nor a_ sufficient condition for joint
zees playing cooperative social games with a human commitment in humans [30].
experimenter did not attempt to re-engage experimenters It is not a sufficient condition because many speech acts
who suddenly stopped playing. The authors interpreted the that explicitly entail commitments do not necessarily function
results (p. 640) as evidence for a ‘uniquely human form of that way. A case in point concerns ostensible invitations (let’s do
cooperative activity involving shared intentionality that lunch sometime, [50]), proposals that are not meant to be taken
emerges in the second year of life’. This conclusion has seriously. Such invitations can even be accepted by invitees
been challenged because of confounds [39], the small (yes, let’s), but the process by which they are established
sample (three individuals) and the fact that only chimpanzees makes it clear for all parties that they are only pretending
were tested, in artificial interactions with human partners. to extend and accept the invitation. The ubiquity of ostensible
Later studies with bonobos [40] and bonobos and chim- invitations robs even seriously intended invitations, propo-
panzees [41] show substantial re-engagement rates after sals or promises of their potentially binding character
interruptions. Moreover, when interacting with conspecifics, without sufficient effort by participants to demonstrate that
bonobos re-engage social activities (e.g. social grooming) they are indeed to be taken seriously. Imagine Aaliyah
more often than solitary ones (e.g. self-grooming), suggesting suggests to Bashir Want to go to the concert tomorrow?, and
an additional sensitivity to ‘jointness’, above and beyond the intends this invitation to be taken seriously, and imagine
potentially pleasurable nature of the activity itself [42]. further that Bashir replies enthusiastically, and seriously
An empirical controversy about whether great apes (Great idea, I’m in!). Without subsequent follow-up, probably
experience a sense of joint commitment or not does not neither Aaliyah or Bashir will actually proceed to ordering
necessarily constitute a problem for philosophically based tickets online. The difference between an ostensible and a
accounts of joint commitment. Indeed, it may potentially seriously intended invitation thus lies in the subsequent