ship between mothers and offspring. This is the locus for a in emotional states it triggers. Alloparenting would greatly  &
restricted and specialized ‘theory of mind’, as required for increase the fitness benefits of both the ‘cuteness’ stimulus
intermittent on-demand feeding and other kinds of infant and the caring response, and motivate the generalization of S
care. It is notable that this maternal relationship is the environ- maternal instincts outside the maternal relationship. In this — ~
ment in which a flexible gesture system first gets established in way, ‘cuteness selection’ offers a feedback process, similar =
the development of chimpanzees [24,50], just as it is the key to Fisher’s runaway sexual selection, that could have gener- S
setting for the first stages of language acquisition (in both ated the overall generalization of empathy and ‘theory of
cases of course other social partners play a key role in the full mind’ that characterizes our species.
development of the communicative repertoire; [50]). If attending to an infant’s needs and desires involves first-
Now, humans are clearly an alloparenting species, that is, order theory of mind (a model of the other), trying to reas-
they engage carers other than the mother alone in the child- sure, console, or express caring and affection can involve
rearing process. Alloparenting frees the mother for further third-order theory of mind, namely a model of what the
reproduction, and in fact humans in traditional societies have other will make of those signals. It is this third-order that is
interbirth intervals close to half those of the other apes essential to the flexible use of language, the narrowing of
(around 29 months in humans versus around 60 months in reference and the use of novel expressions—i.e. the level of
chimpanzees), and early adoption of shared parenting must Gricean intentions. When I rub my chin vigorously intending
have been a key factor in human demographic success you to think you may have egg on yours, you decode it by
[55,56]. We are in effect the rabbits among the apes. By contrast, recognizing a non-instrumental action and wondering what
alloparenting is largely precluded in chimpanzees by the risk led me to produce it. Since ape gestures (like human utter-
of infanticide [47]}—chimpanzee mothers jealously guard ances) seem sometimes novel [52], and typically vague or
their infants, holding onto them even when they have died. ambiguous, they have to be resolved in context—suggesting
Consequently, chimpanzee twins rarely survive outside that these systems already involve higher order intentionality
captivity [57]. [65]. It is this possibility for constructing signals that allows a
Alloparenting requires a generalization of the maternal language to grow, and indeed to function by pragmatically
relationship, with the mother’s interest in the infant's fleshing out the meaning. While higher order intentionality