sive signal, involving communicative intentions in the signaller, shared intentions are intentions to execute a plan with part- = =
if it occurs in combination with, for instance, infant-directed ners: a commitment to mutual support is in place. = 5!
speech [53]. In the two aforementioned studies (the latter repli- Tomasello argues [39] that this commitment implies that 5
cated the results of the former), infants followed the adult’s gaze the cooperative partners participate in shared intentionality =
equally reliably independently of whether the adult produced by trying to achieve a concrete common goal. The common = &
ostensive or non-ostensive gaze (i.e. an attention-getter not goal can be achieved with a plan of action. This plan of =
involving communicative intentions). This result implies that action can only be understood by all partners through what
first, young children interpret attention-getters’ and ostensive Tomasello calls ‘third-personal perspective taking’ ([39], s
signals in the same way, and second, independently of high- p- 55). What he means by that is that the involved individuals =
level meta-intentions involved, humans (and perhaps other are required to abstract away from each partner’s perspective S
species) use signals such as gazing as a source of information. toward a general objective. With this abstraction in place, par-
Issues applying the theoretical analyses of ostensive ticipants can take on different roles to achieve the shared
intentional communication to empirical investigations goal. In fact, they could, in theory, take on any of the roles
had already arisen in the 1970s and 1980s. Developmental based on the abstraction. For the abstraction to be cognitively
research during that time (in particular [54,55]) investigated manifested, individuals have to take a bird’s eye perspective
the cognitive and social development necessary for the occur- of the task, i.e. a level of abstraction that most likely cannot be
rence of full-blown intentional communication in pre-verbal reached by any other species than humans. Taking such a
children. When, researchers asked, do children begin to stance would imply that chimpanzee hunting [62] is only a
actively seek out adults to fulfil their own goals and desires, case of shared intentionality if the data are interpreted as
and with that start to understand their communicative sig- chimpanzees taking on different roles to successfully hunt
nals as instruments to affect the adults’ intentions? The the prey, ie. one individual being the chaser, another one
investigations focused on gestures, gazing, pre-verbal vocali- being the catcher, etc. It is here, again, that because of the
zations and the child’s interactions with objects of interest in absence of the required mental complexity, chimpanzee hunt-
correlation with the adults’ behaviour. While Bates and col- ing cannot be interpreted as a joint action. The planning and
leagues [54,56] focused on declarative and imperative birds-eye perspective character clearly may make collabora-