than when applied to offspring of dissimilar parents. morphologies that are more physically stable and energy =
Miras et al. [35] conduct a similar study, but in their work, efficient, and can therefore facilitate learning and control. Ss
only a single controller-generator is inherited by a child. A Le Goff et al. are motivated by the goal of applying =
new evolutionary algorithm is then launched to optimize artificial evolution and learning to physical populations of S
the weights of the generated controller. In this case, the pro- robots [4,8,19]. Their goal is to find a learning algorithm 2
cess is not Larmarkian as the EA is applied to the network that is as efficient as possible given that conducting exper- =
generated by controller-generating algorithm, rather than iments in hardware can be time-consuming. They again use 5
the genetically encoded algorithm itself. Running exper- an EA as the learner (applied from scratch to a randomly ==
iments with and without learning, they find that the robots initialized population), but propose two modifications to =
created via learning have significantly different morphology increase efficiency [38]: (i) the EA is initialized with a very __
than those without. They postulate that in contrast to the small population, and periodically restarted if evolution stag- = =
common view that ‘the body shapes the brain’ [14] that nates with an increased population size; and (ii) a novelty =
they in fact observe ‘the brain shaping the body’. Further- mechanism [39] is added in order to maintain diversity. A | >
more, they observe that the learning delta—the difference comparison to another type of learner—a Bayesian optimizer =
between the fitness of the inherited controller and that of (BO)—shows that although both methods can achieve similar &
the learned controller—increases over time, suggesting that performance, the computational running time of their ©
adding learning directs the evolving population towards method is significantly shorter than BO and is therefore S
morphologies which are more capable of learning. preferable in the context of physical robotics. &
=
(i) Individual learning from scratch (c) Joint optimization with individual and cultural x
The methods just described make use of indirect encodings of learni ng
the controller in order to address the problem of the mis- While the previous section has focused on individual
match between the structure of an inherited controller and learning mechanisms in which an individual robot improves
the potentially modified morphology of a child robot. its controller based only on information gathered during its
Although this elegantly solves the mis-match issue, there own lifetime, we now turn our attention of mechanisms