plementary material, §4 for simulation details; analytically predicted in full lines, from electronic supplementary material, equation (S9) with variance—covariance
matrix G= ol, where I is the identity matrix and 6 = 0.043 was chosen heuristically; N= 8 and m= 0.467 so that r = 0.125; otherwise same parameters as
figure 1, middle). (6) Individual values of belligerence observed in a simulation (empty circles, each representing an individual, same parameters as (a)), as well as
the observed trait population average (full line) and variance (dotted line, time on a log scale). Note that polymorphism, indicated by the bimodal distribution of
empty circles, occurs before the population average has completely converged to its equilibrium in simulations due to mutations being relatively large (to speed up
computation time). But as predicted, the trait variance starts to increase significantly only once the population average has stabilized. (c—f) Distribution of each trait
in a simulation (calculated from time 250 000 for 100 000 time steps, same parameters as (a)).

successful when they are rare as they tend to engage their at the belligerence locus (figure 4c, red). We find that this
group into a raid and to win contests against groups consist- differentiation is no different before and after the polymorph-
ing mainly of Doves. But as Hawks become common, their ism emerged or to differentiation at the helping locus (which
groups suffer from attacks by other groups consisting recall never becomes clearly polymorphic, figure 4c, blue). In
mainly of Hawks, and as a result pay the high cost of two fact, differentiation among groups at the belligerence locus is
contests rather than one (i.e. pay cy rather than c,, where the same as expected for a neutral locus (figure 4c, black).
C2 >2c;). Past a critical frequency, Hawks thus become less This shows that negative frequency-dependent selection
successful than Doves, allowing both types to be maintained does not generate significant departures in morph distri-
in the population. This frequency-dependence is thus remi- bution among groups compared to neutral expectation. Put
niscent of that of the Hawk-Dove game [46,47], with differently, how the two different morphs are distributed
interactions here mediated by group structure rather than among groups is primarily determined by dispersal and
occurring strictly among individuals. local genetic fluctuations (due to variance in reproductive

success that generates identity-by-descent) and thus reflect
the pattern of relatedness.

(ii) Polymorphism within and between groups We additionally examined the effects of different levels of