they could, as they already give the highest possible pay-off as a counter-strategy against infanticide by non-sire males
(i.e. paternity) anyway. Thus, we conclude that males in [21]. However, they opened the door towards the broader
single-male groups do not need to be ‘hired’; they provide phenomenon of male services that benefit unrelated females
services because they benefit directly without having to or their immature offspring yet do not reflect parental care or
share paternity. investment in secure future fitness benefits. For instance, pri-

The hired gun hypothesis becomes more plausible if mate females can also recruit non-sire males to assist in the
female behaviour and reproductive physiology are moulded defence against predators [22]. Here, our focus is on BGC.
so as to enable the presence of additional males, in most The absolute and relative importance of these three benefits
cases against the fitness interests of the dominant male. If is likely to vary between species and between populations of
females do not evolve counterstrategies against dominant the same species. For example, infanticide risk is often lower
male attempts to monopolize mating, single-male systems in seasonal annual breeders, given that male infanticide
may evolve. Andelman [15] first drew attention to the fact would rarely shorten the time window until the mother
that groups of up to ca six females could contain either a enters into oestrus again. Predation risk varies between species
single male or multiple males, whereas above that, multi- according to habitat (savannah versus forest) and within
male groups are the norm. Diana monkeys may provide an species typically owing to variation in human disturbances of
estimate on how many females a male monkey may maximally the ecosystem (often driving predators to local extinction out-
monopolize as long as females evolved to consent: a group side strictly protected areas). The importance of BGC will
usually has a single adult male, but regularly about 10 females vary as a function of food distribution (clumped versus
[16]. The small testes size of males indicates the absence of spread) and territory/home range defensibility (the larger
any sperm competition [17], suggesting that the single male the home range, the more difficult it becomes to prevent intru-
monopolizes mating. Diana monkeys dwell in tropical rain- sions); and the benefit for females of the male contribution in
forests, a habitat that would facilitate hidden extra group this context will depend on sexual size dimorphism. The gen-
mating if females were seeking them. This example implies eral scenario for the implementation of hired guns and the
that females in other species that live in multi-male groups resulting multi-male multi-female groups is summarized in