the best option, allowing the winning group to improve its [36]. However, cortisol is sensitive to both metabolic and = &
w
energy balance rather than suffer additional deficits associ- psychological stressors so it was unclear whether red-tailed 4
ated with non-confrontational alternatives. monkeys experience intergroup conflicts as energetically s
By using a very short-term proxy for energetic condition, costly. Guenons (such as red-tailed monkeys) exhibit an
o
we isolated the important difference in the immediate, per- intensity of agitation and hostility during aggressive <&
S
ceived resource value to winners and losers. For other between-group conflicts that is almost never seen during
species, long-term measures of motivation predict contest within-group interactions. They also engage in grooming
outcomes: more centrally located contest sites elicit greater frenzies after an intergroup conflict [54], presumably as a
effort from the resident group, leading to a higher probability stress-relieving coping strategy [55], which further implies a
of winning the encounter [13,14,18,33]. In contrast, red-tailed strong psychological cost to these encounters. The fact that
monkeys are no more aggressive in central home range areas C-peptide does not decline for winning or losing groups indi-
than in peripheral areas, indicating that the long-term value cates that the energetic cost of these encounters is likely to be
of a resource may be less important than its immediate minimal. Instead, winning groups experience energetic
value [17]. It is unclear why red-tailed monkeys exhibit this benefits that compensate for earlier deficits, and losing
pattern, and whether other species are as strongly influenced groups suffer no extraordinary costs. The short-term ener-
by the immediate value of the resource. More generally, while getic causes and consequences of intergroup conflicts are
the ability to predict which group will win a contest may be clear, and support the interpretation that these conflicts are
useful, it is more important to measure the costs and benefits psychologically stressful but worthwhile for the potential
associated with outcomes in order to better understand the energetic payoffs.
biological significance of intergroup contests [4,8,49]. Relative
to many other group-living animals, primates are long-lived Ethics. Permission to carry out this study was granted by the Uganda
