reputation with females introduces a new dynamic regarding

the amount of services provided. Under reputation-based 3. Empirical evaluation
partner choice, it is not good enough to provide services Our conceptual considerations allow us to make various pre-e = =
above a certain pay-off threshold (like ‘provide more to dictions that can in principle be tested empirically. First, if >
between-group fighting than a female could have done’) females hire males as guns at least in part to improve chances __
but each male has to perform better than the competitors. to win BGCs, we predict that the number of males will affect =
Therefore, an increase in the number of males may lead to chances of winning and perhaps also home range size. To 5!
a disproportional increase in male services (green region in assess these predictions, we need to exclude cases of male = &
figure 3) because of females exerting partner choice. participation in BGCs that are purely owing to mate defence. =
A point that deserves further exploration is whether Where males alone are involved in BGCs, this is a parsimo- =
under such conditions, males of a low quality /in a temporary nious explanation of the phenomenon, and no underlying =
bad state simply opt out of the competition and try to obtain male-female interactions need to be invoked. This is in fact 4
the benefits of group living without contributing to the public the situation pertaining to many southeast Asian forest lan- s
good. As females need to monitor male behaviour anyway in gurs [44], where young males attract females to form a =
order to identify the best one(s), they should be able to ident- group and retain their females until their ability to defend a
ify such non-contributors and keep them out of the social them against younger rivals breaks down [45]. A similar pat-
network. Another important point to make is that market tern may pertain in various African colobines [46-48]: males
effects can work both ways: the best guns may demand are the main participants and group dominance, if present,
many mating or else they would switch to another group. may primarily reflect the benefits for the participating male,
In the worst case, they would join a neighbouring group who invests in his reproductive future [47]. Female secondary
and hence become a direct opponent. Clearly, the hired gun dispersal is also common [49,50], suggesting a mix of male
concept provides ample opportunities to explore and take-overs of existing groups and a cycle of group formation
advance both reputation-based partner choice concepts and and disbanding in which females are often not close relatives.
biological market theory. Overall, the general lack of female participation indicates that