that if the hypothesis had not been supported by the d-separ- plant richness (second term). Using our data,
ations, then a new causal graph would have to have been ACE = 30, P(e = 1|c = 1, d4)P(d) — 0, P(e = 1|c = 0, d)P(d)
drawn and tested. = —0.53. As mentioned before, the effect of plant richness on
While our causal graph has only two testable implications pollinator richness (i.e. P(e | do(d))) can be estimated only at a
(the more the better), we found that plant-pollinator ratio in likely level. Because the modified graph is the same as the
our DAG is a genuine cause of pollinator richness. That is, original graph (i.e. there are no incoming links to plant rich-
plant-pollinator ratio and pollinator richness are uncondi- ness), the interventional distribution is exactly the same as the
tionally statistically dependent (G?-+test: p-value = 0.001, observational distribution. Using our data, ACE = P(e=1!d=
power = 0.99), plant—pollinator ratio and pollinator richness 1) — Pe =11d=0) =0.62, as can be expected.
are statistically dependent conditional on all other variables The result above implies that by increasing the plant-pol-
(G?-test: p-value = 0.001, power = 0.99), humidity potentially linator ratio in the community, we would decrease by 53% the
has an effect on the plant—pollinator ratio under the context chance that pollinator richness increases on a given day. This
defined by the null set, humidity and pollinator richness suggests that there can be, in fact, limits to the positive
are unconditionally statistically dependent (G*-test: p-value = relationship between plant and pollinator richness. This
0.012, power = 0.99), but humidity and pollinator richness relationship may be attributed either to a set of plants that
are statistically independent conditional on plant—pollinator do not directly affect pollinator richness or to how this ratio
ratio (G?-test: p-value = 0.68, power = 0.99)—fulfilling the cri- modulates species interactions, and consequently, the com-
teria of genuine cause (see previous section). Note that, in munity dynamics [34]. It is worth recalling that this case
principle, we can also estimate the effect of plant richness study is not intended to demonstrate a general effect, but to
on pollinator richness. However, in our DAG, this effect serve only for illustration purposes and as a potential guide-
cannot be defined as either potential or genuine, it can only line for future studies. For example, we try to explain a fairly
remain at a likely level (see §3). simple community metric and many more variables can be
After corroborating our DAG, we focused on finding the explicitly taken into account, such as abundance of patho-
ACE (i.e. average causal effect) of plant—pollinator ratio and gens, herbivores, chemical compounds, temperature, etc.
pollinator richness. That is, we calculated the probability of But we hope future work can build on these methodologies