the sex of juveniles, but even in this case, the nature of collec- the value of r proves to have remarkably little effect on the
tive decision-making requires that the group as a whole, results; note that many situations of inbreeding avoidance
consisting of both males and females, needs to on average imply that one of the parents will be picked among non-
benefit from the decision. This represents an alternative justi- relatives or distant relatives of the focal individual and
fication for our approach—though this argument ceases to be another among closer relatives).
valid if individuals of one sex have more impact on collective Consider the ‘no kidnapping’ case first. The focal off-
decision-making than others; in the absence of any evidence spring is assumed to have only one of its two parents with
to support such a power asymmetry, we do not include it in relatedness to the focal individual, reflecting our assumption
the model. We assume that sex ratio is 1:1 among the kid- of inbreeding avoidance. This is therefore also the only
nappers and abductees alike. Therefore, the focal existing parentage that matters for the fitness calculations (the other
group member and the abductee are of the same sex with parent’s fitness does not matter for our proxy for fitness).
probability % and of a different sex with probability %. The probability that this parent is the focal individual itself
Further, we assume that a focal group member is related to is 1/(N/2), where the factor 2 relates to the fact that there
current group members with relatedness r, while the related- are two sexes: a total of N/2 individuals compete locally to
ness to the juvenile that represents an opportunity to kidnap be ancestors of the current individual among that sex.
is zero. If the focal individual is not the ancestor (probability 1-
If kidnapping does not occur, there will be future descen- 1/(N/2)), then we consider r as the fitness gain (which may
dants of the group with probability 1-p(N); we compute the arise either via males or females as explained above), and

fitness gain via a given descendant long in the future for a

. 1 1
randomly chosen current group member. If there is no kid- we have a proxy for fitness (1 — p(N)) (sa + (1 oN 3) ).

napping, we simply assume that any one individual in the If the kidnapping does occur, the extinction probability