are several species-specific groups of essential fatty acids in as industrial food processors [118]. Moreover, this genus has
insects required e.g. for membranes or pheromone synthesis metabolic similarities to Lactobacillus which is known to affect
[108,109]. Both honeybees and bumblebees (Bombus terrestris) PUFA levels [119]. Leuconostoc is phylogenetically closely
avoid diets containing comparatively high levels of fatty related to Fructobacillus [120] which is known for carrying
acids, as they decrease the bees’ longevity and reproductive genes involved in fatty acid biosynthesis; these genes are
fitness [67,110]. This negative effect is likely a consequence comparable to genes found in the bee-associated L. apinorum
of high concentrations of saturated fatty acids (SFA) in and L. kunkeei [121]. These findings render Leuconostoc a
food limiting the uptake rate of FAs by midgut cells (as potential candidate taxon for further studies on bee nutrition
reviewed by [111]), which can subsequently damage cell with respect to PUFA biosynthesis. In fact, PUFA biosyn-
membranes [112]. At the same time, polyunsaturated fatty thesis is an established biomarker for distinguishing
acids (PUFAs), and more precisely the ratio of omega 6:3 microorganisms and their implications for host health
fatty acids, are important for cognitive abilities in honeybees [122,123]. Our findings suggest that this link might also
[73,113,114]. In fact, a recent study found that dietary fatty prove relevant for bee health. The effect of dietary fatty
acid profiles do not only impact bee longevity, but also acids on bee performance and the correlations between
their lipid metabolism and immune-related gene expression specific fatty acids and the bacterial community in O. bicornis
[30]. They strongly impacted the bees’ gut microbiota, with larval provisions revealed by our study provide a first inter-
high-fat diets, e.g. increasing the relative abundance of esting directive towards an integrative understanding of the
Gilliamella and decreasing levels of Bartonella [30]. Our results bacterial roles for bee nutrition. Notably, besides bacteria,
did not confirm this pattern for those two bacterial genera, yeasts and other fungi are not only abundant, but also vital
likely because they were in general only marginally detect- members of the pollen provision microbiome [38]. Like bac-
able in our solitary bee system. Interestingly, preliminary teria they can potentially alter the nutritional quality of
data suggest different effects of different fatty acids on pollen provisions and respond to amino acid and fatty acid
B. terrestris survival and reproduction (FA Ruedenauer, concentrations of pollen substrates.

SD Leonhardt 2021, unpublished data). Given the correlative nature of our data and analysis, we