ing values of 18.5% of daytime that primates can manage. much as to their closest living relatives. Third, and most
Anything beyond that will push time budgets into deficit importantly, we are less interested in the exact values than
(i.e. individuals will not be able to balance their time in the pattern, since it is the changes in pattern, not necess-
demands within a 12 hour day) (see [46]). These points will arily the absolute values, that alert us to where we should
identify phase transitions where major changes in behaviour be looking. Changing the slope of the constituent equations
would have been required. would only change the scale on the y-axis, not the pattern.
Although neither group size nor grooming time fossilize, The estimated grooming time values for each fossil
we can estimate expected grooming time using the regression species (including fossil Homo sapiens) based on individual
equation from figure 1 relating grooming time to group size. specimens are given in figure 8; the corresponding values
To do this, we first need to estimate likely group size, which for cranial volume and group size from which these derive
we can do by interpolating through a series of equations that are given in the electronic supplementary material, figure
relate cranial volume to group size in hominoids (following $2. The values for Neanderthals (and Homo erectus) are
[81,82]) (for justification and further details, as well as clarifi- adjusted to take account of the fact that they had much
cation on some debates around these issues, see the electronic larger visual systems and hence would have had smaller
supplementary material). neocortices for social cognition (for details, see [24,84]). The
We need to be clear on three points here. First, we are not results exhibit a very clear and consistent pattern: in the aus-
necessarily interested in the actual time a species devotes to tralopithecines as a taxon, group size is well below the upper
grooming but to the time it would have needed to allocate limit at 45 that can be bonded by social grooming, and the
to grooming if this was the only way it had of bonding its required grooming time itself is well below the observed
group. Second, estimates for hominin group sizes (and upper limit at 18.5% of the day. The equations given in the
hence required social time) are benchmarked by the position electronic supplementary material would have to be very
of chimpanzees (the most social of the apes) and that of wrong for these species to have broached these limits. There-
modern humans on the ape grade regression line. These, by after, there are two major stepwise increments (indicated by
definition, set an upper and a lower limit on the range of pos- the hatched bars): these coincide with the appearance of the
sibilities. All hominin fossil species must lie within this genus Homo (ca 2.4Ma) and the appearance of archaic