Figure 4. (a) The mean z-scored pupil response from pre-stimulus baseline to partners’ pupils over 2s time, split by subjects’ level of awareness. The dashed line
shows the timepoints after the 1500 ms included in the analysis. (b) Mean z-scored pupil response after the 1500 ms baseline split by subjects’ level of awareness.
For each muscle displayed separately, see electronic supplementary material, figure $2.

pupil size also modulated trust, yet not entirely according to Furthermore, in line with prior findings [7,8,49], we
our expectations. In contrast to prior research, participants observed a pupil mimicry response in the control condition—
did not trust partners with large pupils more than partners participants’ pupils were larger in response to partners’ large
with smaller pupils—at least not during the visible (control) pupils compared to small pupils. Interestingly, the opposite
condition. Although the pattern was in the expected direc- pattern was found in the unconscious condition, where partici-
tion, it did not reach significance [7,8,49]. Instead, pants displayed larger pupils in response to partners’ small
partners’ pupil size influenced participants’ trust decisions pupils versus large pupils. During the semi-conscious con-
during the suppressed condition. Specifically, we observed dition, participants’ pupils were larger when partners’ pupil
that when subjects had no awareness of partners’ eyes, sizes were medium in size rather than large. The fact that
they were influenced by their pupils. The reason pupils pupillary response increases as awareness level decreases
influenced trust during unconscious conditions, but not (figure 4b) also points toward the theory that pupil signals
during fully visible control conditions, is open to interpret- are processed mainly unconsciously [12]. However, before
ation. However, a possible explanation ties to prior evidence we can support such an interpretation, we need to consider
suggesting that observed pupil size influences emotion per- a potential confounding effect that CFS could have on
ception primary unconsciously [5,50]. Accordingly, this pupils. We have used a novel technology developed by
result fits with the theory submitting that autonomic cues Brascamp & Naber [37] that has been specifically designed
and facial expressions influence social behaviour via distinct to track pupil changes under CFS. However, figure 4 shows
neurophysiological pathways. Specifically, autonomic cues that the initial light dip that commonly occurs when a new
may be processed via the retino-collicular-pulvinar- stimulus is presented disappeared during CFS. The concern
amygdala pathway, while facial expressions require the is that the continually flashing effect of CFS potentially dis-
visual cortex [12]. rupts pupillary responses, in which case the pupil data