Masking, attentional blink and CFS paradigms are all influenced trust decisions primarily non-consciously. These =
blinding methods that can suppress visual input. The differ- results are significant for emotion theories postulating that =
ence in these methods is that the manipulation or visual unseen emotional stimuli can influence human behaviour = &
perception happens at a different level of processing. For and social decisions [19,20,56]. Instead, here we demonstrate =
instance, a recent study showed that unconscious processing the ability to assess trust, as well as how the more basic
was present with masking but absent with CFS [52]. The tendency to mimic facial expressions breaks down by dimin- ~~
authors concluded that CFS allows very little perceptual pro- ishing people’s ability to read others’ facial expressions. On =
cessing, if at all, and that previous reports of high-level and the other hand, the current study is one of the first to show 8
complex unconscious processing during CFS may result that pupil size influences trust mainly unconsciously. We
from partial awareness. It is, therefore, worth mentioning conclude that the path from facial expressions to mimicry
that CFS is a particularly ‘aggressive’ method and other and trust in healthy subjects is predominantly conscious.
‘softer’ blinding methods could bring different results. Meanwhile, we provide evidence that pupil size influences
Another important fact to consider is that people with lesions trust mainly unconsciously.

create new types of axonal connections with other parts of the

brain [53,54]. This neuroplasticity effect may explain the

dichotomy in unconscious processing found between healthy

subjects compared to subjects with blindsight. If we consider 4. Method
the speed with which mimicry happened combined with the
fact that participants were not instructed to react to the
stimuli in any way, it could be argued that the occurrence
of spontaneous mimicry (the tendency to smile in response