effect of generating underdominance as well as reducing In most species, archetypal sex chromosomes come in two


differentiated versions that do not recombine over a large stretch in two populations), but appears to be maintained within El

in the heterogametic sex (the male in XY systems such as mam- populations as a balanced polymorphism. Transcriptomes
mals or the female in WZ systems such as birds). Because of this of individuals with and without the D allele indicate that 3
strong reduction in recombination, sex chromosomes are many genes located within the supergene show reduction of z
predicted to accumulate mutations at a faster rate than auto- expression in developing and reproductive tissues, suggesting :
somes. This may cause sex chromosomes to behave like many of the effects of D are cis-acting, similar to findings
‘supergenes of speciation’, with the non-recombining section for other non-driving supergenes [51-53]. Finseth et al. [27]
accumulating genes responsible for reproductive isolation [38]. identify a number of potential linked candidate genes differing
In fact, two rules of speciation—Haldane’s rule (heterogametic in expression that may lead to meiotic drive, including a
hybrids show relatively higher sterility/inviability) and the centromere chaperone (NASP*™), further contributing to our >
large X-/Z-effect (X/Z chromosomes excessively accumulate knowledge of selfish supergenes. 5
incompatibilities relative to autosomes)—are based on the idea =
that sex chromosomes accumulate mutations. However, sex S
determination does not always follow the simple rules outlined +. . s
above [39]. Amphibians lack the genomic architecture that 3. Supergenes facilitate adaptation =
suppresses recombination between the sex chromosomes. Supergenes provide a mechanism that allows multiple = 5'
Dufresnes et al. [37] review this amphibian defiance of the classi- favourable trait combinations to be maintained in the face a
cal laws of sex chromosome evolution and examine what it can of recombination. While the role of supergenes in adaptation =
teach us about the role of sex chromosomes as supergenes of has been well established [3-5,7,8,18,19,54], there remain fun- =
speciation. The generally homomorphic sex chromosomes damental questions about the ways in which supergenes iat
of amphibians do not appear to play a disproportionally large facilitate adaptation. One of the most prominent of these