divergent phenotypes (parallel evolution) [10,11]. Schematic that can bring whole sets of adaptive alleles to a new location
examples of repeated environmental contrasts are illustrated [13]. Second, because inversion polymorphisms might often
in figure 1 (we refer to different environments and the experience stronger divergent selection than polymorphisms
respective locally adaptive alleles as ‘blue’ and ‘yellow’ in collinear regions, they could be less likely to be lost by
environments/alleles throughout this article). The question, drift and thus more likely to be shared between different
then, is whether the genomic basis underlying adaptation is instances of local adaptation. Third, inversions may experi-
the same in these repeated instances of adaptation — ie. ence complex patterns of selection, including balancing
whether local adaptation at the genomic level is repeatable selection [14], which can promote inversion polymorphism
[10,11]. Genomic studies can address this question. Results across large geographical scales and facilitate a contribution
vary widely between systems, but in general, the similarity to parallel evolution. Fourth, because inversion content can
of the genetic basis appears to decline with geographical evolve, the same arrangement might contribute to adaptation
distance and time since divergence [12]. This may be in different locations via different alleles at loci inside the
explained by the fact that greater temporal and geographical arrangement, so it is not (only) the allelic content, but the
proximity increases the chance that adaptive alleles are inversion as a tool that contributes to parallel evolution.
shared between locations, either via gene flow or via shared On the other hand, alleles inside an inversion contributing
ancestral variation [12]. to local adaptation will experience stronger negative selection
While both the number of studies on the genomic whenever an arrangement is found in the ‘wrong’ environment,
architectures of local adaptation (including the role of due to their strong association with other negatively selected
inversions) and the number of studies on parallel evolution alleles. This might impede the transport of arrangements
are rapidly increasing, little is known about the inter- across large geographical distances. In addition, because recom-

section of these topics: How often do inversions contribute bination between different arrangements is strongly reduced,


inversions might be less flexible regarding their content and less phenotypic differences are located in this putative inversion El