section of these topics: How often do inversions contribute bination between different arrangements is strongly reduced,


inversions might be less flexible regarding their content and less phenotypic differences are located in this putative inversion El

efficient at removing deleterious variation than collinear archi- [18].
tectures, which might also affect their role in parallel evolution. Another example is adaptation on the between-island g
To address the contribution of inversions to parallel evol- scale in the marine snail Littorina saxatilis (see §3 for within- S
ution, studies must test whether parallel evolution has island scale), which forms ecotypes adapted to steep cliffs =
happened in a system, to what extent the genomic basis of exposed to wave action (Wave ecotype) and to habitats =
adaptation is shared between locations, and to what extent exposed to crab predation, e.g. boulder fields (Crab ecotype). =
inversions are involved and shared between locations. One Adjacent crab-inhabited and wave-exposed habitats occur in S
reason that such studies are still rare is probably the fact numerous coastal locations across Europe. Because there isno ©
that the detection of inversions and the determination of pelagic larva [19], parallel evolution matches an ‘island’ =
arrangement frequencies require specific analyses, which pattern requiring rare long-distance movement, e.g. via drift- 5
have not been performed for most systems. Even if inversions wood [20]. Multiple large (up to approximately 29.3cM) =
have been detected, the question of whether they contribute genomic blocks, most of which likely correspond to chromo- =
disproportionately to parallel evolution requires a statistical somal inversions [21], vary clinally in frequency across local Ss
framework that is not fully developed (see ‘Avenues for cliff-boulder gradients [21,22] and show associations with =
future research’). In this article, we thus highlight empirical divergent traits [9]. Importantly, these putative inversions — 5!
examples where a repeated role of inversions has been differentiate ecotypes in many locations across Europe [23]. >
demonstrated, but stress that the relative role of inversions While arrangements could have risen to high frequencies =
compared to loci in collinear regions is usually not known. from standing genetic variation present during initial coloni- = &
Our article has four main aims: 1. Highlighting empirical sation, it is likely that they are sometimes transported =
examples of a role of inversions in parallel evolution. Our between locations via long-distance gene flow. x