
Figure 4. RM cushions intrauterine pressures for correct egg-cylinder morphogenesis. Egg-cylinder morphogenesis of the mouse embryo proceeds within RM after
implantation at E4.5. Thereafter, intrauterine pressures by smooth muscle contractions become high and periodic at E5.5. WT embryos having a normal RM egg-
gylinder shape can elongate straight under normal high and periodic intrauterine pressures (upper panel). Lama7-deficient embryos having no RM egg-cylinder
shape are deformed under normal intrauterine pressures (middle panel), whereas deformed shapes of Lamat-deficient embryos can be restored to show normal
egg-cylinder elongation when intrauterine pressures are reduced by a muscle relaxant (lower panel). Arrows indicate typical directions of egg-cylinder elongation.
Red arrowheads indicate the extruded ExE.

mechanisms can be assumed: one is RM itself can protect deformed upon compression of the cantilever tip, which is
embryos like a defensive wall and another is that the buffer comparable to the amplitude of smooth muscle contractions
space sealed by RM can cushion or disperse high intrauterine (figure 5b; [10]). In contrast, when an identical external
pressures. The space corresponds to the yolk sac cavity and is stress is placed on wild-type embryos in which their RM is
thought to be filled by an amniotic fluid-like solution. In fact, completely removed or artificially pierced by fine forceps,
histological examination reveals that a blank physical space is their embryo shape has been shown to be deformed
apparently present between the epiblast and decidua in E5.5 (figure 5d). These findings further support the idea that a
wild-type embryos when intrauterine pressures are at their quantitative and local mechanical stress is not able to
peak while such a blank space is not observed in Lamal- deform the morphology of wild-type embryos when a
deficient embryos histologically (figure 4; [10]). To further sealed blank space between the embryo and RM is present.
avoid shrinkage of the morphology due to fixation and However, external stress can deform the embryo shape
sectioning for histological examination, quantitative three- when sealing of RM is incomplete. Therefore, these several
dimensional images with high resolution micro-computed lines of evidence together lead us to propose the fascinating
tomography, a nondestructive and non-invasive technique, mechanical model that the buffer space produced by RM
are explored. Notably, the blank space between the embryo plays an essential role in moderately cushioning and disper-
proper and decidua is clearly present at peri-implantation sing intrauterine pressures for correct egg-cylinder
when intrauterine pressures are at their peak (figure 5a; morphogenesis (figure 5a,c).