epithelium, this region is generally termed the germ disc; Usually, the dorsal field is considered to be extraembryo-
and (ii) the remaining portion of the blastoderm comprising nic ectoderm [12], but Holm [24] presents evidence from
much larger and irregularly shaped cells. We term this tissue grafting and cell tracing experiments, that the dorsal
region of the blastoderm the contra-orbital (opposite of the field cells actually form an endodermal yolk sac, which is
disc) region. Cell tracking and labelling in early embryos of responsible for consuming the yolk and providing the devel-
the common house spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum have oping embryo with nutrients [24]. The dorsal field therefore
revealed that the majority of the blastodermal cells will con- probably represents extraembryonic endoderm rather than
tribute to the germ disc [27]. The contra-orbital region ectoderm. The interpretation of the dorsal field as endoder-
(comprising a squamous epithelium with large cells) is mal tissue is further supported by studies of the genes
formed by a small portion of blastodermal cells that are serpent (srp) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 (hnf-4), which are
directly opposite to the centre of the germ disc [27]. However, strongly expressed in the dorsal field cells and later in the
there are huge differences in the number of the contra-orbital midgut (but also in other non-endodermal tissue) [34]. The
cells, depending on spider species and egg size (e.g. fact that srp and hnf-4 are expressed first in the dorsal field
[16,20,24,27,28]). Live imaging of embryos from remotely and later in the midgut could also indicate that (at least
related spider groups (Araneomorphae and Mygalomorphae) some) cells of the dorsal field later contribute to the
has revealed that during gastrulation, cells do not invade the midgut, but this is only speculative without further data on
contra-orbital region. This observation strongly suggests that the fate of the dorsal field. It is difficult to draw any strong
the strict separation into two hemispheres (germ disc and conclusions from the expression of single potential endoder-
contra-orbital region) is conserved among all spiders [16,28]. mal marker genes. For example, srp is expressed in a variety
During further development, the germ disc undergoes of cells in different insect species, even including the

significant changes (overview in figure 1a). In the centre of expression in extraembryonic cells like the amnioserosa of


st. 5 early