the dorsal field (df; light olive green with olive green nuclei) at stage 6. Convergent extension mechanisms lead to the bilaterally symmetric germ band at stage
7. The dorsal field extends during further development (stage 8) until it covers the entire future dorsal side of the animal at stage 9. (b) Sagittal section of an
embryo (stained for armadillo transcripts) at stage 4/5 to show internal features. The embryo is oriented such that the germ disc covers the upper half of the
embryo. The germ disc is a single-layer epithelium. The yolk forms a solid inner mass and is divided into irregular yolk clods. The cumulus (cu) is a structure at
the centre of the germ disc, comprising cells that intrude the yolk mass. Staining and sectioning of the embryo were performed as described in [19]. (c) Schematic
cross-sections of embryos at late stage 5 and stage 6 to explain gastrulation processes. At late stage 5, cumulus cells (black) approach the rim of the germ disc (dark olive
green) and are located between the central yolk mass (light yellow) and the germ disc. The contra-orbital cells are depicted in yellow with orange nuclei. In P. tepidar-
jorum and other cobweb spiders like some Latrodectus species, it was demonstrated that at the former site of the cumulus, and at the rim of the germ disc, some cells
(depicted in grey) ingress into the yolk (arrowheads), remain in close contact and then disperse across the internal surface of the germ disc epithelium (arrows) [20-22].
These internal cells have been identified as mesoderm and endoderm precursors [20-23]. The further fate of the cumulus cells after stage 6 is not clear (indicated by the
question mark that is placed next to the black cumulus cells at stage 6). Live imaging and labelling of cumulus cells indicate that the cumulus cells disperse after
cumulus migration and end up at several locations in the opisthosoma [16,20,24]. The dorsal field (light olive green) significantly expands after stage 6, but it is currently
not known if the dorsal field cells spread over, intermingle or push back and replace the contra-orbital cells. This fact is indicated by the second question mark at the
border between the dorsal field and the contra-orbital cells. (d) Embryo at stage 8, nuclei visualized by 4’,6-diamidino-2-phenylindol (DAPI) counterstaining. The germ
band corresponds to the area with a high density of nuclei; in the dorsal field, the nuclear density is lower, and nuclei of the contra-orbital cells are far apart from each
other. Both dorsal field and contra-orbital cells are morphologically clearly separate from the germ band and therefore are usually regarded as extraembryonic tissue. (e)
Embryo at stage 9, nuclei visualized as in (d). The germ band is still identified by the very crowded nuclei, clearly distinct from the lesser crowded nuclei in the dorsal
field, but the contra-orbital cells with their widely separated nuclei are not visible anymore. (f-/) Patterning genes and signalling pathways are active in contra-orbital
cells (fg) and the dorsal field cells (h—/). At stages 4 and 5, the genes hedgehog (hh) (f) and Delta (DI) (g) seem to be expressed in almost all contra-orbital cells. In the
dorsal field cells at stage 6, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is active, as indicated by the presence of phosphorylated Mad protein (pMad) (fh), and the
BMP antagonist noggin (nog) is also expressed in these cells (/). Serpent (srp) is expressed in lateral dorsal field cells at germ band stages ((/), ventral view). /n situ
hybridizations, DAPI counterstains, pMad antibody staining and false colour images of in situ hybridizations were produced as described in [19,25]. Staging after [26].
Additional abbreviations: hl, head lobe; pp, pedipalp; L, locomotory leg segment; 0, opisthosomal segment.

D. melanogaster or the cells of the amnion of T. castaneum were detected in the dorsal field of embryos of Cupiennius