serosa, amnion and/or serosa of insects are homologous with possibly conserved, ancestral function.
the dorsal extra-embryonic tissue of other arthropods, and it In myriapods, many segmentation genes are expressed in
is also unclear whether the dorsal extra-embryonic tissues of the dorsal extra-embryonic tissue in a similar pattern to the
onychophorans and arthropods are homologous. If those tis- germ band (e.g. [12,99,100]), but again, it is unclear what
sues are indeed homologous, one would expect a certain their function may be here. It may be that they pattern the
degree of similarity and, thus, similar gene expression pro- dorsal extra-embryonic tissue and later become part of the
files. Recent research in the cobweb spider Parasteatoda embryo. In any case, it appears clear that the dorsal extra-
tepidariorum revealed that its dorsal extra-embryonic tissue embryonic tissue of most (if not all) arthropods expresses
harbours a high number of cells that express endoderm- developmental genes. Therefore, they are likely to actively
and midgut-specific genes, such as hepatocyte nuclear factor-4 contribute to the development of the embryo. The type of
and the aforementioned serpent [14]. Although the fate genes expressed in the dorsal extra-embryonic tissues may
of these cells is not fully resolved, it is likely that they later differ between different arthropod groups, as exemplified
contribute to the midgut. If so, these cells in fact cannot be by the midgut genes, because in contrast to the spider they

regarded as extra-embryonic. serpent is one of the genes are not expressed in the dorsal extra-embryonic tissue of


Figure 7. Details of gene expression in the dorsal and ventral extra-embryonic tissues of lecithotrophic viviparous F. kanangrensis. Light micrographs. Anterior is left
and dorsal is up in all images; ventral view in (£) and lateral view in all other images. (+) and (—) point to expression or lack thereof in the dorsal and ventral extra-
embryonic tissues, respectively. Developing legs are numbered. Note expression of iro (A) in the dorsal extra-embryonic tissue, and expression of net (B), sog (C), sim
(D) and vnd (E) in the ventral extra-embryonic tissue. dt, dorsal extra-embryonic tissue; net, netrin; sim, single minded; sog, short gastrulation; vnd, ventral nervous
system defective; vt, ventral extra-embryonic tissue. Scale bars: 200 ym (8), 100 um (A,CD), 50 um (E).

myriapods ([14]; R. Janssen 2015, unpublished data on gut amnion of insects may represent homologous tissues that
markers in the diplopod Glomeris marginata). This may be might also share the same or similar function/s.