lation system, we only need to have a non-negativity the number of photoreceptor types of the animal) highlights
constraint for x (theoretical minimum of 7%). Second, an that different animals allow more or less freedom of LED
experimenter may want to weight each target photorecep- choice (electronic supplementary material, figure S2m-q).
tor excitation differently, if certain photoreceptors are Interestingly, LED combinations that would be chosen
thought to be less involved in colour processing (see e.g. according to the peak of the sensitivities, a commonly used
[20]). Thus, we obtain a constrained objective function that strategy when designing stimulus systems [23,24], most

minimizes the weighted (w) difference between our desired often are not included in the 10% largest gamuts of all


n-LED combinations (electronic supplementary material, gamut—they cannot be reproduced by scaling the intensi-

figure S2m-q). This is due to the fact that our metric takes ties—values are usually scaled and clipped in a way to
into account the shape and overlap of the sensitivities and minimize ‘burning’ of the image [27]. An image is burned
LEDs, in addition to the peak of the sensitivities and LEDs. when it contains uniform blobs of colour that should have
Finally, a desired property of a given stimulus system may more detail. Procedures to minimize burning of an image for
be to enable experiments across vastly different intensity humans usually involve preserving relative distances between
regimes. As stimulus intensities are increased, LEDs will values along dimensions that are most relevant for colour per-
reach their maximal intensities (electronic supplementary ception. But these procedures are imperfect and _ will
material, figure S2b) and the gamut of the stimulation ultimately distort some of the colours. To generalize such pro-
system will decrease (electronic supplementary material, cedures to non-primate animals, we have implemented an
figure S2h-l). At higher intensities of a stimulus, including algorithm that assesses which capture values are outside a sys-
additional LEDs can enable reconstruction of more colours. tem’s gamut and adjusts the capture values across the whole = =
This gamut metric is therefore a useful tool for assessing image to minimize ‘burning-like’ effects by preserving relative >
the suitability of an existing visual stimulation system or distances between target values (electronic supplementary Ss