tically oriented near the animal pole, but becomes slower and in other teleosts such as zebrafish, medaka and annual S
horizontally oriented as it approaches the yolk [22,40,42]. killifishes, and whether internal blastomere-derived fusion
This topological difference in the cleavage pattern generates events also contribute to this process.

two types of blastodermal cells with variable connection to
the yolk and distinct potential to generate the YSL. At periph-

eral regions, partially cleaved blastodermal cells remain () E veloping layer lineage specification
cytoplasmically connected to the underlying yolk, signifi- The EVL originates in the blastula from the outermost layer of
cantly contributing to the later eYSL (figure 2b). By the blastoderm in a developmental process that transforms a
contrast, inner blastodermal cells are completely detached rounded /cuboid pluripotent cell arrangement into a differen-
from the yolk and most of them will form the DCL tiated flat epithelium over several metasynchronous cell
[22,40,42]. In fact, if a blastoderm cell leaves the margin or cycles. Studies in zebrafish show that EVL specification
remains centrally located, its progeny never contribute to begins shortly after the MBT, while the EVL becomes lineage
the formation of the eYSL, although its possible contribution restricted in the late blastula [24,54] and commitment to EVL
to the iYSL remains to be determined [41]. fate occurs 1-2 h later [55]. EVL specification involves a com-
In zebrafish, the eYSL forms between the 512-cell and 1 k- bination of genetic mechanisms based on maternal factors
cell stages, i. between the 10th and 11th cleavage, by a and morphogenetic cues based on cell/tissue properties.
mechanism that is not fully understood. A variable pro- With respect to the genetic mechanisms, several maternal
portion of marginal blastomeres appear to coalesce or genes have been shown to be crucial for EVL specification
collapse, depositing their nuclei and most of their cyto- [56-62]. Among these, non-region-specific maternal genes,
plasmic contents in the underlying yolk space (figure 2b) such as the POU Class 5 Homeobox 1 (Pou5f1; also known
[22,39-41]. This phenomenon is associated with cellular beha- as Oct4) [57] have been proposed to act synergistically with
viours that affect only marginal cells and include a bias of cell region-specific EVL inducers (e.g. interferon regulatory
division orientation along the animal-vegetal (A-V) axis, the factor 6) [58] to activate closely related Kriippel-like transcrip-