adapted from Johnsen et al. [18]. (b) The absorption spectra of the three different photoreceptor classes identified in Deilephila, with absorption peak wavelengths at
350 nm (UV-sensitive class), 450 nm (blue-sensitive class) and 525 nm (green-sensitive class). Adapted from Hoglund et al. [79]. (c) Achromatic (upper) and chro-
matic (lower) contrasts of flowers and a hindwing seen against a green foliage background (whose spectral reflectances are shown in (a)) under four different
irradiance spectra—twilight, moonlight, starlight and light pollution (from figure 2a). These contrasts are based on calculations of photons absorbed by each
photoreceptor class, which depend on the irradiance spectrum of light that initially strikes the object (twilight, moonlight or starlight: figure 2a), the spectrum
of light that the object’s surface preferentially reflects (determined by the object's reflectance spectrum (a), and the absorption spectrum of the photoreceptor itself
(b). Adapted from Johnsen ef a/. [18]. (Online version in colour.)

mentioned earlier, this can be ameliorated by neural mechanisms distinguishing the rewarded colour from the unrewarded colour
that stabilize colour perception under a variable irradiance either under the white illumination or under a yellow-shifted
spectrum, a phenomenon known as ‘colour constancy’ [17], a illumination (created by introducing a coloured filter that
hallmark of advanced colour vision systems. Not surprisingly, removed light of wavelength below 450 nm: figure 6e,f). This is
Deilephila reveals colour constancy (figure 6d-f, [10]). After despite the fact that the relative photon catches of the three spec-
learning to associate food with either a green or turquoise tral classes of photoreceptors were very different under the two
target under broad-spectrum white illumination (produced illuminations (figure 6d), indicating that these differences did

from a high-pressure mercury lamp), Deilephila had no problem not affect final colour perception.


(b) Why does the elephant hawk moth have nocturnal grossly understudied. Nocturnal pollinators visit flowers | 11 |
(during dusk) after or (during dawn) before diurnal pollinators,

colour vision? thus augmenting the quantity or the efficiency of pollination ser-
As we mentioned earlier, many nocturnal mammals, like owl vices rendered to plants (e.g. nocturnal hawk moths and noctuid
monkeys, have dispensed with colour vision altogether and moths on the white campion Silene alba [84]). Nocturnal hawk