complex behaviours covary, together with previous evidence dozen neuroimaging studies from both humans [102-106]
for a primate ‘9’ [42,64], suggest that much of primate cognition and primates [107,108] demonstrate that a substantial neural s
is better described as domain general. Large-brained species per- pathway (the default mode/mentalizing networks involving = =
form well on associative learning as well as other cognitive tasks, much of the prefrontal lobe, significant parts of the parietal S
are behaviourally, and hence culturally, complex, technologically and temporal lobes, and the limbic system, together with the
sophisticated, have broad social repertoires and live in larger substantial white matter tracts that connect them, representing
groups. Unlike perceptual capacities (which are usually highly a major proportion of the non-visual neocortex [109,110]),
specialized), cognitive capacities are about information process- correlate with the size of the social group experienced by
ing and decision-making, and are rarely so specialized—and an individual.
especially so in species that are behaviourally flexible. This Neuroscientists have specifically addressed the question of
makes it difficult to undertake comparative analyses that how absolute brain size relates to cognitive capacity from both
isolate out functional questions about selection. However, the a structural and computational perspective [111]. In primates,
fact that many of the core primate cognitive specialities (includ- these arguments are based on well-established laws of how
ing causal reasoning, analogical reasoning and the capacity to neuron density scales with brain size [112,113]. Although the
inhibit behaviour) play a crucial role in both social and foraging hindbrain follows an allometric scaling rule, such that larger
tasks does not mean that both of these domains played an bodies require more investment in the physiological and
equal role in selecting for these abilities. When multiple causes motor control centres, the cortex does not scale linearly with
are involved, it is statistically unlikely that they will have exerted body size [114]—a point originally made, in fact, by Jerison
identical selection pressures on the dependent variable. A more [115]. Moreover, larger brains are structured differently from
plausible explanation is that one is the original selection smaller brains, with greater differentiation [116,117], and a
pressure for a cognitive upgrade that was subsequently higher density of glial cells that promote transmission
exploited in other domains. efficiency and metabolic efficiency [118]. A complementary
The question is whether the additional cognitive proces- argument has been made in evolutionary anthropology: the
sing capacity represented by large brains evolved to allow selection on hominin brain size acted on the cognitive proces-
animals to solve social problems (so as to live in large sing power of total brain size, with body size being a linked