amygdala, they do behave defensively, and have their own to assume that animals inherited fundamental survival beha-
defensive survival circuits. For example, circuits have been viours related to defense, feeding, fluid regulation and
identified that control freezing in flies [72]. This finding was reproduction from unicellular microbes by virtue of genetic
unfortunately described as being functionally similar to ‘fear’ and molecular inheritance. But I realized there was another,
circuits in mammals and, as such, suggested that it may be less biologically daunting, way to think about this than to ==
able to shed light on aspects of human ‘fear’. This kind of assume that complex defensive, feeding and reproductive >
prose invites the conclusion by journalists that flies may be behaviours of present-day animals were literally inherited — __
emotional beings with conscious feelings of fear similar to from ancient microbes. =
ours [73]. This is an excellent example of how using the survi- All organisms have to manage energy resources, regulate = 5!
val circuit terminology could have helped avoid unintended intracellular fluids, defend against harm and reproduce, but = =
misrepresentation in the press of otherwise important research. the way any one organism does these things depends on the =
Consistent with the idea of conserved survival circuitry in kind of body its species evolved. For example, differentmam- = &
diverse animals is the fact that, as mentioned above, some malian species flee from danger by running, flying or ©
genes and molecules involved in implicit learning about and swimming, depending on the kind of locomotory capacities S
control of behaviours in the presence of threat are conserved that evolved with their bodies. In short, behaviours are bau- %
in vertebrates and invertebrates. This does not necessarily plan-dependent (species-specific) survival implementations =
mean that having the genes shows that the function is con- of universal (species-general) survival requirements. And sur- S
served. But the correlation between the presence of the genes vival circuits are the species-specific neural implementation by
and the function is at least suggestive that similarities in implicit which the behavioural implementation of the universal
forms of learning in vertebrates and invertebrates may be due to requirement is achieved in each animal.
acommon set of synaptic plasticity-related genes inherited from The point is, we should not be looking for how motor fea-
a common basal ancestor. Research using modern genetic tools, tures of defensive or feeding behaviours were passed on from
in fact, supports this suggestion [74-76]. bacteria to archaea, and from them to protozoa and from them
But the connection runs deeper. Some of these plasticity to animals. How animals manage survival motorically is essen-
genes and molecules are present in radial organisms with dif- tially an artefact of their species’ body plan. Therefore, what we