revived such efforts. While the behaviourists certainly went conscious of a similar kind of stimulus does not necessarily = >
too far, they were quite effective, if too dogmatic, in mana- mean that the child or animal is having a conscious experi- 5
ging the language of psychology. And with them gone, we ence, a mental state, similar to what the adult human has. © =
are back to the semantic ‘wild west’ of the late nineteenth They may, and in some cases, likely, have some kind of con- = =
century. scious experience. But how can we truly know if they do, __
Part of the problem is that the evaluation of consciousness and if they do, what it is like for them? =
in animals, whether in mammals [35] or molluscs [125], is To get around this conundrum one often has to make com- =
often based on intuitions and beliefs derived from one’s promises about what is acceptable as scientific support for the = =
understanding of their own behaviour, mind and/or brain. hypothesis. At the end of the day, claims of consciousness in =
When the claims match common sense and lore, they feel cor- animals and human infants often rest more on intuitions and 3
rect, and when they are repeated authoritatively in scientific beliefs than on data, since there are often equally compelling =
or lay communities, they come to be assumed as indisputable non-conscious explanations of the behaviour [122,123]. x
facts. This does not mean that other animals are unconscious Why are we on any firmer ground studying consciousness s
robots. It simply means the behavioural data held up as proof in human adults than in adult animals? Two points are crucial. =
of mental states are often not. The widespread assumption One is that barring a congenital brain disorder, all humans have S
that innate defensive behaviours are a fool-proof reflection brains with same basic structural components and functional
of conscious feelings of fear is a case in point. capacities. Given that, if 1 am conscious of my mental states
According to J. S. Kennedy, author of The new anthropo- and actions, I can with some confidence assume that you
morphism, ‘Anthropomorphic thinking ... is built into us ... It have this capacity as well. Like any species trait, consciousness
is dinned into us culturally from earliest childhood. It has pre- will vary across individuals, but will be present, or at least is
sumably also been ‘pre-programmed’ into our hereditary potentially present, in all members of our species.
make-up by natural selection, perhaps because it proved to The second point is that we humans can report on our
be useful for predicting and controlling the behavior of conscious sates verbally or non-verbally, but can only report
animals’ [126, p. 5]. Our language, he says, is inherently on non-conscious states non-verbally. Other animals, and
anthropomorphic, and, as a result, our concepts and thoughts human infants, lacking the ability to verbally report, only have