is]
$
parameter in the regulation of female call rates [65]. Intra-sex differences could certainly have a functional impact if every s
competition could be another factor responsible for the ten- recipient has a certain probability of behaving in a certain
sion observed during inter-sex reunions, and individuals way in response (approaching, retreating, calling in response) B
could call to attract allies or identify themselves to avoid to every vocalization it hears. In the long term, and over all *
aggression. Competition between males for access to females individuals that could be recipients, there would be an
is attested by high rates of appeasing embracing behaviours effect in terms of the fission—fusion dynamics and the main-
among males during sex encounters [39]. Competition tenance of social relationships between callers and
between females is also observed with new immigrant recipients. The fact that females call more when in smaller
females being more vulnerable to attack from resident subgroups, and those males call equally regardless of sub-
females [46]. group size, could imply that subgroups of all sizes would
The fact that the immatures’ pattern differs from that of maintain an approximately constant call rate. However,
mature individuals could be owing to the different social when we analysed the effect of fission and fusion events on
interest from males and females but also the interest they this subgroup calling rate, we identified sources of variation
may have in individuals of the same sex as a reference to that may be related to cohesion and spacing functions of
socialize. For example, immature males presented more whinnies, in the context of a dynamic subgroup composition.
affiliative interactions to adult males than do immature Indeed, social instability affected contact call rates at this sub-
females [47]. Vocal usage certainly follows social develop- group level. We registered more calling in subgroups during
ment, as immatures typically show same-sex preferential periods with fission and fusion events, when social instability
bonding before developing heterosexual relationships [66]. was higher, than during events when subgroups only fis-
In spider monkeys strong male—-male bonds begin early in sioned or during periods without changes. This result is
life [47]. consistent with previous studies suggesting that contact
As predicted, mature females presented higher contact calls allow individuals to obtain information about subgroup
call rates when mature sons were present in the audience. members’ locations [30], and can serve a spacing function [32]