Since at least one bystander was present in all conflicts, we bos, along with related findings from other great apes (see S
tested whether signal number and duration increased with 6] for a review), suggest that the capacity to flexibly modulate —
more audience members present (prediction D) and decreased signalling to pursue different strategies and social goals is not =
when more friends are close-by who would naturally offer a uniquely derived trait in humans, but more likely was pre- =
immediate support (prediction E). We found support for sent in our last common ancestor with Pan [3]. It is also
both predictions: victims increased their signalling efforts (by possible that the capacity for voluntary control of emotional
producing longer signal displays) when more bystanders signals is under positive selection in other species with com-
were present, regardless of victim age. Additionally, they plex social structures, also beyond the great apes [6,7,95,96];
decreased their signalling efforts (by producing less signals to assess the possibility of convergent evolution, comparisons
overall) when more friends were present, and this was more with other, more distantly related animal species are crucial.
so in immatures compared to adults. The unexpected age Moreover, although there is already some evidence for flexible
difference in relation to the presence of friends might be related emotion signalling in other great apes like chimpanzees
to the fact that adults are generally less vulnerable than 22,56], gorillas [97] and orangutans [95,98], the precise predic-
immatures, requiring reduced sensitivity or vigilance towards tions presented here should at least be tested similarly in
surrounding protectors. Although it remains unclear why chimpanzees to verify whether these findings in bonobos
immatures reacted stronger than adults, our results potentially reflect shared inheritance or evolutionary convergence with
imply an early awareness of bystander relationships in bono- humans. Being a purely observational study, our findings are
bos. Further research is needed to investigate whether constrained in that we do not have direct physiological data
signalling to friends serves a particular strategic function for of arousal [89]. Future research should use physiological
younger group members. data, such as infrared thermal imaging to examine how
Generally, emotion signals in bonobos appear to involve internal arousal maps onto observed signalling.

some flexibility in usage based on social awareness. However,
as before, one might argue that increased signalling efforts
with greater audience size (or equally, reduced signalling