w

cally modulated bilateral insula and right postcentral gyrus, activity between conditions. Corroborating the findings from =
neither of which is considered part of the DMN (figure 3b the PLS analysis, the univariate approach revealed that external s
and table 3). eCFT were more likely to engage large clusters of voxels

encompassing the cuneus/occipital pole, precuneus, angular = &
gyrus and portions of the superior and middle frontal gyri.
By contrast, internal eCFT were more likely to engage the

4. Discussion posterior cingulate and precentral gyrus. According to the
Previous research has shown that the brain’s DMN is constructive episodic simulation hypothesis, simulating counter-
engaged during the mental simulation of eCFT [1,6,40], yet factual thoughts elicits greater activation in the same episodic
a large amount of evidence in the social psychology of system that supports memory retrieval, owing to the construc-
eCFT also indicates important differences in the kinds tive demands of generating a novel episodic scene [43]. Both
of mental contents people tend to mutate when engaging the behavioural and neural data seem to indicate that recon-
in eCFT [17]. One such difference, until now unexplored structing an episodic memory by changing external factors
in the cognitive neuroscience of eCFT, is that between internal placed the greatest demands on this system, as evidenced by
and external counterfactual simulations [26,41]. When simu- ratings of higher difficulty and less plausibility for external
lating alternative ways past personal events could have compared to internal eCFT, as well as generally more robust
occurred but did not, we may imagine how we could have levels of activity for external eCFTs among core DMN regions.
acted differently to bring about an alternative result (internal In particular, generating external eCFTs engaged the precu-
eCFT), or we may imagine how circumstances of the past neus, angular gyrus and occipital regions to a greater extent
situation could have been different so as to have altered than internal eCFTs, even after accounting for activity related
what actually occurred (external eCFT). The current study to naturally retrieving a memory.