
-30 -20 -10 0 10 20 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20
Bidding-SVD (later-sooner) Bidding-SVD (later—sooner)

Figure 1. Correlates and consequences of confidence in intertemporal choice (E1; all independently replicated in E2, not depicted). (a) Participants made inter-
temporal decisions (i) and judged their confidence in having made the right choice (ii). Each question appeared twice (iii). A ‘Bidding task’ enabled separate
estimates of time-discounted SV (iv). (6) Correlation heatmap across all trials (combined MCQ presentations). (c) Confidence was higher in decisions where the
absolute SV difference between choice options was greater, defined either via hyperbolic discounting or Bidding task estimates. Decisions that took longer
were also closer to subjective indifference and made with less confidence. (d) The interaction between Bidding-SVD and confidence reveals that when participants
were more confident that they had made the ‘right choice’, they more reliably chose whichever option had higher SV (steeper slope predicting choice from
Bidding-SVD). (e) The role of response time does not survive controlling for confidence effects, suggesting a unique metacognitive role for explicit confidence.

did in fact more reliably choose whichever option had the colleagues, who recently demonstrated a similar pattern
higher time-discounted SV (steeper slope relating Bidding- using computed, rather than self-reported, SVs [29,30].

SVD to choices when confidence was higher; see figure 1c). In a non-pre-registered exploratory analysis, we ran
This significant Bidding-SVD by confidence interaction term a separate model where we also entered response time and
can also be interpreted as evidence of metacognitive its interaction with Bidding-SVD into a mixed effects
insight because it shows that choices track separately esti- model predicting MCQ choices alongside Bidding-SVD, confi-
mated SVs more closely when confidence is higher. This dence and their interaction. Even though confidence again

approach complements that of Soutschek, Tobler, and interacted with Bidding-SVD to predict choice, B= 1.46, z=


1 = aS 1 1