exploratory behaviour, for example, people’s exploration of sation may be distinguished from correlation—if A causes B,
online food delivery purchases are driven by a combination then changing A must lead to a change in B. Thus, consider-
of feature-based generalization of expected value and uncer- ation of counterfactual information contributes to causal
tainty [45]. Even infants are sensitive to uncertainty and will reasoning, and testing counterfactual hypotheses is often part
allocate their attention to sequences of stimuli that contain of learning about and testing causal relationships [55]. In this
moderate levels of uncertainty [46]. Reducing uncertainty way, counterfactual information resolves an important type
has been posited as the overarching principle guiding percep- of uncertainty and helps us to build better models of the world.
tion, action and learning because uncertainty reduction is Whether counterfactual information is necessary or
critical to make good predictions about the world, helping sufficient to determine causation remains a matter of philoso-
agents to adapt to their environment [47]. phical debate (see [56]), but it is clear that at the very least,
This principle of uncertainty reduction identified in humans find counterfactual information to be credible sup-
curiosity research should be applicable to counterfactual port for causal explanations. This function of counterfactual
information. In fact, even when counterfactual information information has recently been used in the field of machine
is not directly related to rewards, it still often reduces uncer- learning, where the black-box operations of deep-learning
tainty. This is because counterfactual thought hinges on the algorithms make important decisions but cannot be easily
uncertain moments in our existence, those moments where explained. Diverse sectors including healthcare and finance
alternate events could have transpired. Shani & Zeelenberg are increasingly reliant on machine-learning algorithms for
[18] used vignettes to describe investment decisions and important decision-making functions, but public trust in
manipulated the level of uncertainty about the outcomes these decisions can be undermined by a lack of understanding
of alternative investment choices. They found that people of their operation. Counterfactual simulations are used to
were more likely to seek information when uncertainty was explain the behaviour of these algorithms in [57] by demon-
high. By considering the unknown outcomes of counterfac- strating what would have happened if different input

tual alternatives, either through simulation or through values had been entered. The use of these counterfactual
