In _ addition, self-relevant counterfactual information, probably make predictions about many factors such as the
relating to one’s own decisions, can increase our sense of self- weather, the cost of the hotel room, the quality of the food
agency, giving us a further sense of causal power. In a set of and the other guests at both destinations, and these pre-
novel experiments, Kulakova et al. [59] presented adult partici- dictions will contribute to the decision. Predictions relating
pants with decisions that could have identical or different to the chosen action will be verified when the action is
outcomes to manipulate participants’ sense that they could taken—you will know whether it is hot and sunny in
have done otherwise. Indeed, participants reported that they your chosen holiday destination by virtue of being there.
had more control over the outcome when the counterfactual By contrast, predictions will probably remain unknown for
information revealed a different result than the obtained the alternative destination unless further information is
outcome, indicating that they could have done otherwise. Con- sought. This situation raises awareness of an information =
versely, adults tend to engage in counterfactual thinking more gap—you considered how the unchosen option would be = =
readily about events over which they had control [60]. Children but did not get any information about what it actually was. Ss
are also more likely to seek counterfactual information about In fact, Loewenstein [35] suggested that making predic- = =
alternative outcomes of their own actions rather than events tions in uncertain situations increases the salience of the — 5!
over which they did not have causal power ([5], experiment knowledge gap, leading to higher curiosity (i.e. motivation = 5
2). In a card matching game, children were more likely to for information-seeking). This has recently been demon- =
reveal the previously available card, and thus obtained infor- strated experimentally: Brod & Breitwieser [66] asked  &
mation about what they might have won, had they chosen participants trivia questions, and either instructed them to
otherwise, over information about what was not available guess the answer, or simply told them they would see the S
to them. This suggests that counterfactual curiosity may be answer. Participants who guessed the answers were more =~
stronger for some types of counterfactual information than curious about the actual answer than those in the passive =
others—information about controllable events (which card condition and showed a larger pupil dilation response in &
was selected) rather than uncontrollable events (which cards anticipation of the correct answer. It is worth adding that,
were available). This may reflect the expected instrumental when expectations about the chosen outcome are not met,
value of the information, since counterfactual information uncertainty about the unchosen outcome may also increase,