ativity does not presuppose features such as mental imagery, the hippocampus [17,18]. g
mental time travel or conscious awareness. Indeed, defining Complementing lesion studies, functional brain imaging =
generativity enables us to refer to the brain’s capacity to has revealed activation of the hippocampus during a variety
internally generate experiences that are distinguished from of self-reported imagined experiences that overtly differ
externally driven present experience, without invoking these from subjects’ actual circumstances [19-22]. In such studies, =
features that are associated with subjective human imagin- subjects are typically asked to imagine experiences that differ 2
ation. As an example, a soccer player approaching a moving from present experience through changes in time, space
ball can rapidly assess numerous dynamic ongoing events and/or personal perspective. The hippocampus, in addition
and stimuli, consider multiple possible responses, and decide to a group of cortical areas known as the default mode net-
on a play, all in a split second and without overt awareness work, is consistently activated during, for instance, recalling
of each internally represented possibility. In animals, ethologi- autobiographical experiences, imagining anticipated future
cally relevant scenarios such as predation and escape make episodes, imagining counterfactuals, mentally simulating
similar demands on cognition [5]. Thus, direct investigation common activities (e.g. brushing teeth), constructing fictional
of the brain may be essential to understand generativity. scenes, imagining non-actual events and stories, taking on
In this review, our overall aim is to describe and advance others’ perspectives and unprompted mind-wandering
our understanding of how generativity—an ability underlying [19,20,23-27]. These results highlight that the hippocampus,
imagination—is realized in the brain. Our review is guided by along with other brain regions in the default mode network,
five questions: (i) where generativity might be implemented in is important for the capacity to generate mental displacements
the brain, (ii) how generative neural activity can be identified, from actual present circumstances, whether in time, space, per-
(iii) what candidate generative neural activity patterns and sonal perspective and possibly other domains [14,17,19,28,29].
representational correlates have been previously described Thus, although the cognitive role of the hippocampus is often
and (iv) how the brain can organize actual versus generative conceptualized in relation to prior experience (i.e. episodic
activity patterns. This discussion establishes that the hippo- recollection, recall) or explicitly anticipated experience (i.e.
campus, a brain structure in the medial temporal lobe, is a planning, prospection) [30-32], the hippocampus appears to
candidate biological substrate of generativity, and that patterns play a more general role in imaginary experience [29].