present as generativity. By this definition, generativity is a lecting the past, envisioning the future or constructing
basic function that underlies imaginative abilities broadly, fictional scenarios. Notably, the earliest case studies linking
regardless of more specific properties, such as references in imagination of the future to specific brain areas are in indi-
time (e.g. remembering the past or simulating futures). As viduals with previously established deficits in memory of
further clarification, we also note that our present use of the past [6-10]. In one classic case, patient H.M. suffered
‘generativity’ differs from its senses in linguistics and in severe amnesia after his hippocampus and adjacent medial
statistical models (notwithstanding potential connections temporal areas were surgically removed, which established
between these uses [1-3]). Defining generativity enables the hippocampus as an important site for memory, particu-
us to focus on a single characteristic ability that may ulti- larly episodic memory [11,12]. Notably, while episodic
mately facilitate our understanding of the diverse types and memory impairments are most traditionally reported, H.M.
components of imagination. and many other patients with hippocampal damage have =
Crucially, generativity can be understood at the level of the since been examined and found to have severe impairments >
brain. Mirroring the subject-level ability to distinguish actual in future-oriented thinking and constructing fictional = _
from imagined experience [4], specific neural processes in the events more generally [9,13-18]. These findings raise the =
healthy brain must ‘parse’ internal representations as ongoing possibility that recollection of the past, anticipation of the — 5!
experience (actual) versus internally generated alternative future and imaginative abilities more broadly may share =
experience (imagined). Importantly, this substrate-level gener- common underlying functions as well as dependence on =
ativity does not presuppose features such as mental imagery, the hippocampus [17,18]. g
mental time travel or conscious awareness. Indeed, defining Complementing lesion studies, functional brain imaging =
generativity enables us to refer to the brain’s capacity to has revealed activation of the hippocampus during a variety
internally generate experiences that are distinguished from of self-reported imagined experiences that overtly differ
externally driven present experience, without invoking these from subjects’ actual circumstances [19-22]. In such studies, =
features that are associated with subjective human imagin- subjects are typically asked to imagine experiences that differ 2
ation. As an example, a soccer player approaching a moving from present experience through changes in time, space
ball can rapidly assess numerous dynamic ongoing events and/or personal perspective. The hippocampus, in addition