
counterfactual reasoning task, particularly in the Peruvian are supportive of this possibility, there are reasons to caution


against such a strong claim without follow-up research; most during pretence and guide them towards reasoning about | 10 |

importantly, our study design was correlational and not relationships that are causally consistent with reality. Of
intended to answer questions about causation. In addition, course, it is possible that some other variable accounts for
these results apply to the broader definition of counterfac- the differences witnessed across samples; this is a question
tuals we described in the Introduction (§1). Whether for future research.
pretence correlates with the more specifically defined coun- The observed cognitive differences across samples, nota-
terfactuals in other accounts, such as reasoning about bly, were specific to the counterfactual and pretence causal
nearest possible alternatives to past events, is an interesting reasoning tasks. In fact, when contrasting across samples on
open question. the available measures, we saw more patterns of similarities

As noted above, the magnitude of the correlation between than differences. First, we saw that children across samples
pretend effects score and counterfactual effects score did not were equally able to learn the basic real-world cause and
significantly differ across our populations. We found no inter- effect relationship via observation: that a zando activated =
action (p=0.88) and no differences between any of the the machine, while a non-zando did not. Further, Wente S
groups in the slope of the relationship between pretence et al. [47] conducted a different ‘blicket machine’ physical — __
performance and counterfactual performance (p> 0.64). causal reasoning experiment with comparable samples of | =
However, when the cohorts were examined individually, Peruvian, low-income U.S. children and mixed-income U.S. =
the relationship between these variables in the low-SES U.S. children. In this experiment, all children were equally able = =
cohort was marginal. Given the otherwise statistically and to learn much more complex physical causal relationships =
qualitatively similar relationship across cohorts, this may be via observation. This may imply that all children are equally = &