Since the turn of the ninteenth century, philosophers and psy- error based experience. Behavioural tests rely upon many
chologists have deliberated the question of whether other abilities, which can make it difficult to disentangle underpin-
animals are mentally bound to the immediate present. ning mechanisms [40]. Studies with children indicate the
Today, though the debate continues, there is some consensus important role of past reinforcement/practice in these tasks,
that animals behave in ways that benefit their futures (think emphasizing how critical it is to consider the role experience
of food caching birds or beavers constructing dams). The cur- plays when interpreting results. For instance, 4-year-olds can
rent debate centres more around whether these acts are correctly choose which of two tools is needed for a future task
primarily owing to associative learning or fixed action pat- when they have used the correct tool in the past, but fail to do
terns rather than planning. This has implications for what so when they have used both tools in the past, suggesting
they understand about their futures, including whether their tool choice may be based more on associative learning
(and which) animals are not tied to their perceptual present than a consideration of the future [41].
and which capacities they share with humans [32]. Of course, regardless of the degree to which they under-
Various approaches have been taken to study future plan- stand it, the fact that other species act as if they understand
ning in animals, typically focusing on whether they can the future suggests that it is sufficiently useful that there
appropriately pick the right object (food, tool) or location has been selection for behaviours that fill this role. As we dis-

depending on what happened in the past or what they cussed earlier, one benefit of considering culture in relation to


prospective cognition is that it might help us understand are modified by fraying the ends to make the so-called ‘brush | 5 |

some of the variability in the expression of cultures, if, for tipped probes’, an innovation that improves tool efficiency
instance, prospective cognition allows individuals to flexibly [51,52]. This latter behaviour occurs almost exclusively prior
determine which patterns of behaviour to copy and in what to interaction with the nest [51,52], suggesting that it may be
contexts. This probably does require at least some ability to intentional [53]. Though tool use is present in a number of