
6. The impact of culture on the development of increases in symbolic thought and changes to culture (cul-
tural evolution) such as to our technologies, preschool

prospective cognition education and public attention to executive function skills.
While we have made a case that prospective cognition These findings suggest that culturally determined expec-
influences the degree to which animals innovate and flexibly tations on cognition related to prospection can have direct
deploy cultural behaviours, the reverse may be true as well, consequences on their development in young children.
with culture influencing how, when and in what contexts pro- All of these examples, of course, regard humans. While the
spective cognition develops. At the most basic, of course, power of culture to impact cognition is impressive, it remains
culture allows the time and space to develop future goals. to be seen whether similar effects are evident in other species.
Routine tasks, such as planning routes to work, involve Perhaps humans are uniquely susceptible to cultural influences,
many cumulative inventions across generations that yielded but the fact that group culture can influence animal tool use (e.g.
pathways, trains, buses and cars. In many cases, the advent the types of materials chimpanzees choose to crack open nuts or
of these cultural products (e.g. agriculture and institutions the tools they use to extract honey; [86,87]) suggests that simi-
that trade in consumables) alleviate present motivations, larly strong pressures, at least in theory, could exist in other
such as the need to forage or to cultivate produce. With species. Thus, the question for other species becomes two-fold;
basic needs met, a shift towards prospective cognition and how is prospective cognition influencing the development and
the pursuit of goals in the distant future can occur, spurring flexible deployment of culture, and how is culture, in turn, influ-

modes of future thought [42]. Social learning also allows encing the ways in which prospective cognition develops.


7. Future directions comparisons between humans and other species. In particu- | 8 |
