arrived in southeastern Australia. Three of these beings possible ‘part woman-part bison’ painting at Chauvet
strode out to other parts, but one crouched in place, trans- (Rhéne-Alpes, France) [151], with later Magdalenian (21 000
forming into a volcano—Budj Bim—and spat out his teeth to 14000 years ago) examples including the ‘bison-man’ at
(lava). This lava flowed to the sea and created the coastal wet- Le Gabillou (Dordogne, France) [152], a ‘bison-man’ and a
lands that has sustained the Gunditjmara. Geological study ‘deer-man’ at Les Trois Fréres (Ariége, France) [153], and
and dating of the twin eruptions of the Budj Bim and a possible ‘bird-man’ at Lascaux [154]. On the other side of
Tower Hill volcanoes using 40Ar/39Ar found that this the world, ongoing research in Sulawesi, Indonesia has
event occurred some 37000 years ago and did flow to the discovered a painted panel older even than the infamous
sea—mirroring the story as told. This eruption created a sig- lion man. At Leang Bulu’ Sipong 4, a panel dated to at
nificant impression on the community, leading to a story least 43 000 years ago shows several therianthropes hunting
powerful enough to continue into the present day. These wild pigs and anoa [147]. Similar to the ‘bird-man’ at Las-
examples suggest that, in some contexts at least, scientists caux, each of the humanoid figures appear to have bird-like
may be able to connect Indigenous stories with geological heads. By this point in time, then, it seems likely that fictional
events dating back thousands of years. narratives were part of human culture.

A line of evidence which is on less steady ground is the
habitual use of hearths. Polly Weissner found in her study
of conversations among modern Ju/‘hoansi Bushmen that
80% of conversation at night (around hearths) were stor-

6. Discussion and conclusion

ies—as opposed to day time conversations which typically The capacities to think about the remote past, future, and
revolved around daily tasks [140]. Interestingly, the night- even about fictional situations is widely assumed to be
time stories often involved religious experiences, myths, unique to humanity. Even if comparative psychological