ord et al. ([43], p. 499), ‘An associative link per se cannot be an store of useful information. Having the generalized capacity
argument to another association’). Running simulations in a to run simulations in any of these systems would be very
model of the environment (background planning) allows useful indeed. Concepts seem to give us that capacity. Not
the system to reach conclusions about how best to act in var- only does conceptual thought allow us to take all or most
ious circumstances, conclusions that rely on the constraints of our special-purpose systems offline. Concepts also give
encoded in the model [44]. Even apart from modelling us a way to focus on and manipulate any of the objects, prop-
human cognition, computer scientists have found that simu- erties or relations that are represented in those systems. That
lations in the form of ‘experience replays’ are useful in their can be a matter forming thoughts and simulations of situ-
own right as a tool for training deep neural networks [45]. ations we have already encountered. It can also involve
These findings from cognitive neuroscience and computer recombining concepts so as to simulate novel scenarios.
science offer a template for the way offline simulation can The combinatorial power of conceptual thought has long
extract information from a special-purpose system: not been recognized. Putting together existing concepts allows us
simply by retrieving a stored representation, but by relying to think new thoughts. Less remarked on is the fact that this
on special-purpose computational dispositions and special- normally brings with it the capacity to simulate or imagine
purpose representational structures. Where a representation a scenario corresponding to the novel thought. I can formu-
is a plug & play device, simulations run with it offline can late the thought a cart that runs on an iron road and then
make use of information built up online as a result of experi- start to imagine what that would look like and how it
ence. This is the model that I want to carry over to cases would work (a railway). When I suggest a regiment of soldiers
where simulations are driven by concept-involving thoughts. mounted on polar bears, you will start to imagine what that

will look like and what might happen. There is considerable
evidence that thinking with concepts activates represen-
tations in multiple special-purpose systems—sensory,

3, Concepts as plug and play devices motoric, affective, evaluative and amodal [9,10,23,33,46,47].