
any word that is less specific than another (e.g. ‘furniture’
is less specific than ‘chair’) will have all the referents that

(a) Troubles with concreteness ratings the other has, plus some. However, Bolognesi et al. found
Most notably, we find both notions of abstractness at work in only small-to-moderate correlations between concreteness
common characterizations of the distinction between concrete ratings and specificity: r=0.263, r=0.267 and r=0.354, for
and abstract words, captured in word concreteness ratings. In each of three slightly different ways of calculating specificity
much of the literature on abstract concepts, the concreteness ratings from WordNet placements [14, p. 372].
(or imageability [17]) of a word is considered equivalent to In short, because distinct notions of abstractness are
the level of concreteness of the concept it expresses, with invoked in the prompts used to generate concreteness ratings,
abstractness increasing proportionately as concreteness the ratings themselves fail to track closely either sort of
decreases. Indeed, the fact that mental processing is, in abstractness. This does not entail that concreteness ratings
some contexts, slower for words with lower concreteness rat- do not latch on to some interesting psychological distinction
ings (known as the ‘concreteness effect’) has spurred much of or other. There are, after all, the well-established ‘concreteness
the work on the abstract/concrete concept distinction [18,19]. effects.’ The point is simply that word concreteness does not
However, when we look at the prompt used to generate some line up well with either of the senses of concept abstractness
of the most influential concreteness ratings—from Brysbaert that we have distinguished. Thus, to the extent we wish to
et al. [20]—it appears to trade ambiguously on both of the take those notions of abstractness as topics of scientific
above notions of abstractness. They present participants study, we should be wary of using concreteness ratings as
with the following prompt: measures for them.
Some words refer to things or actions in reality, which you can We will defend, below, an alternative measure of abstract-
experience directly through one of the five senses. We call these ness—one that we think provides a better measure of the
words concrete words. Other words refer to meanings that cognitive capacity relevant to concept abstractness in the
cannot be experienced directly but which we know because the diversity of referents sense. We close this section with some