(a) Testing a variety of abstract concepts non-verbally cactus and camel, if we allow for the category desert-related.
A widely endorsed conception of concepts holds that they are If to be a desert-related entity is to fall into the category
cognitive mechanisms that enable categorizations of a certain desert-related, then the cactus and camel are members of a
sort [24]. The ability to group squirrels with squirrels, and single category after all. We can further suppose that there ==
batteries with batteries, for example, is assumed to rely are compound PIANO-RELATED and. DESERT-RELATED concepts cor- r=
upon use of the concepts SQUIRREL and BATTERY, respectively. responding to such categories, with the thematic trials _
We can therefore test a person’s conceptual abilities by asses- testing those concepts. (Barsalou [32] argues for a similar = =
sing their ability to categorize appropriately. Categorization notion of ad hoc concepts.) After all, if concepts are simply = 5"
tasks come in several varieties. We will focus on one very those cognitive mechanisms that enable relevant categoriz- = >
common form here—a pictorial semantic memory task—ver- ations, and a person is able to group things as piano or =
sions of which we have used in many previous studies [7,25]. desert-related, then we can justifiably attribute them the con- = &
Semantic memory is standardly understood as long-term cepts PIANO-RELATED and DESERT-RELATED. 2
memory for non-personal facts—such as that whales are An important feature of thematic semantic memory trials, S
mammals, or that brooms are for sweeping—where this so understood, is that they can test one’s understanding of — ~
memory store is one and the same with one’s conceptual concepts whose referents are (arguably) imperceptible. For = =
knowledge [26]. The semantic memory task we have used to test such a concept, we do not need to picture the (imper- a
mirrors in its structure the well-known Cactus to Camels ceptible) thing to which the pictured items are related.
test [27,28], which is itself the most commonly used non- Instead, we need only picture the related items themselves.
verbal test of semantic conceptual abilities. It requires a par- To see how this can play out, consider another trial from
ticipant to match a target image with the one of four other the Cactus to Camels test, where a power plug is shown as
images that is its appropriate match. Selecting the appropri- the target image, with a candle, flashlight, lantern and light-
ate image is considered evidence of one’s facility with the bulb as the choice images. Properly matching the power plug
concept that links the target and match. with the lightbulb requires use of a concept such as ELECTRI-
In one example of a stimulus from the Cactus to Camels CITY-RELATED. To have this compound concept, one must
test, a picture of a passenger train is the target image, and have the concept ELEcTRicITy. So, while electricity cannot