much of what is wanted from the abstractness-as-impercept- (iv) highly abstracted concepts of imperceptibles: these are
ibility notion. Much of the interest in the latter stems from concepts whose referents are imperceptible and bear
empiricist views that see concept-acquisition as arising out relatively few similarities. They include concepts
of perceptual contact with the referents of a concept— such as VALUE, THEORETICAL ENTITY and. MENTAL STATE.
where concepts are seen as ‘grounded in’ those past acts of
perception. It is then a serious question for such views how We should not expect bright lines between the classes, as at
we come to have concepts of things that are imperceptible. least one of the factors on which they are based—the similarity
Such questions are likewise pressing for any concept whose among the referents of the concept—is clearly a matter of
referents are extremely diverse in their perceptible features. degree. Instead, these four classes mark regions in a continu-
After all, if it is perceptual contact with the things that is sup- ous space. Second, while we assume that being perceptible is
posed to explain how we acquire concepts of them, and if the an all-or-nothing affair—and thus does not come in
perceptible characteristics of the things are extremely diverse degrees—we also noted that it is not always clear which
and unsystematic, then it is not clear that perception is any things are in fact perceptible and which are merely inferred
better placed to explain our concepts of those things than it on the basis of, or associated with, certain perceptions.
is to explain concepts of strictly imperceptible items. From Nevertheless, this four-way distinction in kinds of con-
the perspective of theories seeking to ground concepts in per- cepts allows us to formulate the key question we want to
ception, a maximally inclusive concept such as OBJECT poses explore in the balance of this paper. If there are important
an equal if not greater challenge than a concept of a strictly differences in how categorization occurs for abstract as
imperceptible entity, such as ELECTRON or MEANING. In both opposed to concrete concepts—and in the kind of cognitive
cases, we are interested in how concepts of a certain kind challenges such categorizations present—we should expect
of thing are acquired through having perceptual experiences to see those differences when comparing performance on
that are not themselves similar in any obvious way. In short, class (i) concepts (minimally abstracted concepts of percepti-
we are interested in the ability to abstract away from—to in bles) and class (iv) concepts (highly abstracted concepts of

some sense ignore—salient differences between things in imperceptibles). Yet, drawing on new analyses of previously