comparing their own and their interlocutor’s contributions, by and the language they are using (linguistic alignment). Linguistic

drawing on metacognition and social cognition, and specifi- and_ situation model alignment are highly interconnected.
cally by meta-representing whether they believe they and Research on alignment indicates that speaking in the same way
their interlocutor are aligned or not. This process allows speak- (using the same linguistic representations) leads people to
ers to build similar representations and align on their way of think in the same way (representing the world in the same
understanding complex phenomena in the world without way). For example, Garrod & Anderson [6] showed how
having to build elaborate inferential systems of beliefs about people converge on the same description scheme for communi-
their own and their interlocutor’s understanding. cating their positions in a maze (e.g. matrix or line scheme) by
We also argue that dialogue is particularly crucial for repeating their interlocutors’ linguistic choices. This means that
aligning on abstract concepts as compared to concrete ones. the speakers converge on the same conceptualization of the
Indeed, aligning on concrete concepts might not even need maze (situation model alignment), by aligning at a linguistic
any linguistic exchange—it may be enough for a lamp to be level (linguistic alignment). Alignment, in fact, can percolate
visible to both interlocutors for them to align on the concept through different levels of representation [1,3,7].
LAMP. But aligning on abstract concepts, such as FREEDOM, Consider linguistic representations first. When A cor-
usually requires speakers to compare their own perspectives rected B, she activated the lexical entry Wednesday and = =:
and negotiate a new one. Because of their contextual, cultural uttered “Y-uh::: Wednesdays.=’. B also activated the same lex-
and individual variability [4], abstract concepts require ical entry and repeated the word. A and B were aligned on = >
speakers to agree on their representations and they do so the linguistic representation of Wednesday (i.e. its phonology, =
by expressing metacognitive states about their own represen- syntax, and semantics) because A produced it, and Bcompre- = &
tations, about their interlocutor’s representations, and hended it. Indeed, linguistic alignment explains why =
about the degree of alignment between their own and their speakers often repeat each other’s lexical [8] and syntactic 3
interlocutor’s representations. choices [9]. In other words, A and B’s linguistic behaviour s
matched because their lexical representations were aligned”. &
In addition, A activated other concepts related to WEDNES- S