argued that greater motor imitation showed by the learner would remain sensitive to feedback coming from their inter- = =
specifically during more difficult trials (abstract words) locutor to adjust their behaviour accordingly. It has been >
reflected a greater longing for help: participants would try proposed that the extent to which people synchronize may — __
to attune more to the avatar to receive more hints and sup- be a proxy of ongoing exchanges during human social inter- =
port in the guessing task. This interpretation is in line with action [123,124]: in other words, high brain-to-brain =
the argument that social attunement may be a way to support synchrony across social agents should reflect behavioural =
efficient information transfer across interlocutors [117]. inter-personal dynamics. Possibly, the objective is that of =
However, by looking only at the student, this study does reducing prediction errors and increasing affiliation and com- = &
not tell us much about whether the direction of such syn- municative benefits [125]. Therefore, integrating behavioural =
chrony is unidirectional (from learner to teacher) or rather data into hyperscanning studies is necessary to achievea 3
bi-directional. For example, Davidesco et al. [81] found that more comprehensive and meaningful knowledge of how s
while learner-to-learner brain synchrony was instantaneous, humans learn from and with others. =
learner-to-teacher brain synchrony could best predict learn- In fact, being a form of social interaction, good pedagogy a
ing when adjusting for a temporal lag of approximately would be therefore characterized by continuous reciprocity:
200 ms. Specifically, student brain activity would ‘tune in’ the teacher would monitor the audience’s engagement and
to brain activity of the teacher only after a short delay, understanding, and use the audience feedback to adapt their
suggesting a sequential, lagged transfer of information from performance as needed. Such mutual prediction engages
teachers to students. This type of data shows that, to fully the brain in a constant probabilistic estimate of occurrence of
grasp the neural mechanisms of interactive learning, it may external experiences based on expected outcome. These may
be insufficient to focus on one social agent alone: dyadic be plausible mechanisms underlying inter-personal synchrony
analysis may carry more interesting and comprehensive and shared neural representations typical of social situations
information about these complex dynamics. [96]. Studies have shown that interpersonal synchrony

manifests across multiple levels during social interaction,
including motor coordination [126,127], action coordination