Although scaffolded by social contexts [89], the formation motivate abstract reasoning. Verbal labelling of categories
of abstract representations is often portrayed as an inherently has, for instance, been found to facilitate processes of categor-
individual cognitive process. Through development [90], train- ization and abstraction [92,98]. The Voiklis and Corter study
ing [5], experience [6] and exposure to language [91,92], an also included a ‘monologue condition’, where individuals
individual becomes increasingly aware of invariant features were instructed to overtly use language in their categoriz-
and relations in the environment motivating the formation of ation process. This, however, did not yield performance
representations that group certain phenomena as tokens of advantages pointing to the interactive, dialogical engagement
the same type or an expression of the same relation. Christie as critical for the group advantage (see also [57]).
& Gentner [90], for instance, demonstrate how children aged Ina similar categorization task, Tylén et al. [14] compared
3-4 gain increasing sensitivity to relational similarities. While the transfer of categories formed by groups and individuals
younger children will typically point to the visual series ‘cat’- during a training session to new and slightly differently looking
‘cat’-‘cat’ to be more similar to ‘squirrel’-’cat’-’cow’, than ‘ele- stimuli in a test session. The study found that groups more suc-
phant’~’elephant’-’elephant’, due to the object match (the fact cessfully transferred and applied their training experiences to
that both series have a ‘cat’), older children are more inclined new items, in particular as categorization complexity increased.
to recognize the structural similarity, in particular when the The authors suggest that, while individuals are inclined to
visual sets are presented side-by-side facilitating analogical form more detailed visual representations of stimuli from the
mapping. Similarly, across a number of modalities and training set, groups—through dialogical negotiation—derive
domains from visual perception and motor learning to reason- more abstract category representations that are resilient to
ing and language, Raviv et al. [5] point to the way variability in variation and thus transports more readily to new stimuli. Inter-
individual learning experiences leads to better generalizations estingly, variation in group performance was predicted by
and facilitate transfer. aspects of group members’ dialogical coordination. Successful
We argue that analogous, but socially distributed groups were characterized by greater diversity in the lexical
processes of abstraction unfold on the shorter time scale contributions to the dialogue particularly during early training.
of situated collaborative problem solving. Rather than the This could suggest that groups that incorporate and integrate
product of generalization across the experiences of a single more variability in experience, perspective or strategies form