I will discuss below), words often seem to have a disembodied provides an explanation of how the iconicity of linguistic 5
relationship with the content they encode. Indeed, this arbitrari- symbols might contribute to their ability to encode semantic = =
ness seems to play an important role in language acquisition content. Going further, understanding the contribution of the = =
and language change. For instance, the English word hussy is language system to semantic memory as one of re-enactment __
descended from a contraction of the Middle English word for also provides a mechanism for understanding how the concep- =:
housewife [13]. The difference between its historical meaning tual system might leverage the symbolic properties of the = 5!
and its current one cannot be explained in terms of its experien- language. Neural reuse of experiential representations associ- >
tial properties. Given the distal connection between words ated with language action and perception provides access to =
and their referents, one might reasonably wonder about the embodied representations that are indirectly connected to &
purported role of linguistic embodiment. their semantic content [14,15]. Finally, an embodied approach =
Second, the sensorimotor properties of words do not appear also provides an explanation of how inner speech might be 3
to be fine-grained enough to capture meanings. After all, homo- used to retrieve discourse-related knowledge [10]. &
phones, homographs and homonyms share perceptual and The fact that much of our experience is mediated by =
motor properties. The word bank can refer to a slope, a financial language raises the question of whether language might itself x
institution, a flying manoeuver, the act of saving money, and so serve as a source of embodiment. The proposal under consider-
on. Clearly, the way this word sounds, how it is spelled, and the ation holds that the language system facilitates our capacity to
articulatory gestures by which it is produced fail to disambigu- encode semantic content in several important ways: iconic
ate any particular use of it. Standard approaches to language links between linguistic symbols and their content help us
processing handle ambiguity and polysemy by positing inde- acquire and use concepts, labels facilitate our ability to link
pendent semantic representations—usually thought to be together our diverse experiences, word-to-word associations
handled by a semantic code housed in amodal regions of the enable us draw inferences that go beyond our immediate
cortex—that are linked to word forms in a mental lexicon. experience, and knowledge linked to conversations and
Third, an embodied approach seems like an appeal to inner narratives help us to tailor concepts to specific contexts and
speech. A well-known problem with trying to capture meaning tasks. Many of these design features are likely to be particularly
in terms of inner speech is that this move seems to accomplish helpful with abstract concepts.