Our analysis of the two-dimensional metric organization As a first step in this direction, we explored the sensitivity
of emotional space shows that the two axes of valence and of our methodology in capturing individual differences in the
arousal identified in previous research are almost orthogonal, mental organization of emotional concepts. We found differ-
in keeping with the claim of the circumplex model that they ences in the maps of ‘supersubjects’ (i.e., small subgroups

might arise from two independent neurophysiological sys- formed by participants with low positivity, high negativity,
tems [3-5]. Furthermore, our results show that even when low HRV and high HRV). The maps of the group with low
the topography of the map is based on behavioural indexes positive affectivity showed three convergent indexes of
of emotion similarity, emotional concepts are neatly distribu- reduced processing of the arousal dimension: a reduced corre-
ted along a continuum spanning both valence and arousal lation between the scores of emotional concepts and their
dimensions, rather than being polarized, suggesting that projections on the arousal index, a narrower distribution of
people might be sensitive to fine-grained differences between emotional concepts along the arousal index and an increased
them. As proposed by Cowen & Keltner [21], the fact that misclassification of arousal items. In other words, partici-
some emotions are close to each other suggests that there pants in the low positivity group organized stimuli that
may be an easier transition between them (as in the case of varied along the arousal dimension in a way that is less pre-
‘scared’ and ‘angry’ of our current results) or the possibility cise and differentiated compared with the whole participant
to experience different and (apparently) divergent emotions group. These findings suggest that participants in the low
at the same time (such as ‘scared’ and ‘brave’). The existence positivity group could rely less on physiological and bodily
of ‘mixed emotions,’ such as feeling happy and sad at the information when making emotional judgements. This is con-
same time, might occur in typical situations [72] and is con- sistent with evidence that reduced positive affect is strongly
sidered an indicator of greater emotional complexity and associated with the tendency of suppressing emotion [85] as
more adaptive functioning [73]; furthermore, it has been well as with depression and anxiety (see [66] for a review).
recently related with an increase in virus-preventing beha- Low positive emotionality (ie., anhedonia) is consistently
viours (e.g. social distancing) during the COVID-19 related to depression and (social) anxiety, too, although to a
pandemic [74]. However, the research on mixed emotions is weaker extent. The maps of the high negativity group