negative (i.e., high level of negative affect) emotional disturb-
; : ances have been associated with depression and other
(c) Map of emotional concepts in subgroups psychopathological conditions [65,66]. Although the scores

characterized by low positive and high negative of the participants we identified here are not in the patho-
y P g 9 logical range, we tested the hypothesis that the mental

affectivity maps of emotional concepts of the two subgroups were
Our sample of participants were found to be within the different compared with the map gathered by the whole
normal range for the personality and interoceptive measures participant group.
that we considered. Figure 4a shows the map of emotional concepts of

Among the self-report measures considered, the PANAS participants in the low positivity subgroup. Despite the fact
offers greater variability between subjects; thus we divided the that in this subgroup the emotional concepts are coherently
sample according to the positive and negative affectivity scores. organized according to the valence and arousal dimensions,

Bearing in mind that splitting a normal sample is always several concepts are placed differently compared with the
a questionable artifice, we chose the criterion of selecting and map of the whole participant group. The differences between
grouping participants with scores 1 s.d. above or below the the two maps are shown more clearly in figure 4c. The com-
mean of the normative sample. Specifically, we identified a parison between the maps of the whole participant group
group of six participants with a low level of positive affect, and the low positivity group reveals four main things. First,
with individual scores 1 s.d. below the mean of the normative the angle between the two axes of valence and arousal is
data (score 15-18), to form the low positivity group. Similarly, greater (103°) in the low positivity group compared with
we identified six participants with a high level of negative the whole participant group (96°), which implies that in the
