ging sensory and policy topologies within the common tence [52].

lower-dimensional representation space. Thanks to this pro-
cess, representations of those features that are relevant to

the representation of the current policy are positioned in (ii) The intrinsic signal bootstraps the learning of topologies

the same region within each manifold. For this learning At the beginning of the agent’s learning, topologies are not
mechanism to be implemented two requirements must be yet developed. Thus activations in the internal space are
fulfilled. First, the lower-dimensional projections of each only randomly related to the sensory inputs occurring to
modality must share an intrinsic internal metrics so that the agent. In the same way, the representations in the internal
regions in the space of one modality can be related to regions space from which the policies are generated are randomly
in the space of another modality. Second, a function must be related to the policies that are in fact executed by the agent.
found to relate patterns in different modalities with each The agent thus starts with internal representations that are
other so that sensory inputs that are associated with a specific meaningless at first. Importantly, however, as long as sub-
motor programme are represented in the same region of the sequent sensory states are detected, despite the agent’s
internal space. The two requirements can be merged by initial random behaviour (which here amounts to selecting
assuming that the projections of all modalities lie in the a policy among those currently available) the internal rep-
same lower-dimensional inner space and, consequently, by resentations of the different sensory modalities will move
observing that the relationship between motor programmes within the inner space. Over time, given the common
and sensory inputs can be detected through a measure of metric of the internal space, these sensory representations
the distance between their projections in this inner space. In happen to get closer to the internal representation which gen-
particular, we propose that learning should be dependent erated the current policy. These are the sensory inputs and
on the amount of decrease in the distance or convergence motor programmes that will be assigned a higher amount
between representations in the common space (figure 1). of learning signal. The sensory inputs that are selected by