Can simple models help to get accurate understanding of landscape V(x) made of several valleys.” In this case, three
real ecosystems? The answer is positive, and indeed low- phases of change have been identified and associated with
dimensional models have been successful in making sense three well-defined levels of aridity. They correspond to
of ecological nonlinearities. Importantly, although more changes in vegetation composition, structural loses associated
accurate approaches can be used to describe the same with decay in fertility and microbiome quality, and a final
phenomena, all of them predict the presence of marked loss of diversity and plant cover leading to a desert state
phases separated by sharp phase transition boundaries. The [3,63]. These studies provide the basis for forecast. Specifi-
origin of such consistency is grounded in universal properties cally, although no explicit time-dependent behaviour is
of complex systems [48]. used, one can take advantage of the so-called ergodic behav-

In figure 1b-d, we give three well-known examples of iour: the global-level statistical sample is a snapshot that
systems that can display abrupt transitions and illustrate the captures many different local transitions. In other words,
power of a complex systems view, all of them sharing potential the fact that vegetation cover x (and other variables) can be
shifts to occur within our 2050 window. The first (figure 1b) is displayed against estimated aridity a can be interpreted in
connected with the future fate of tropical forests under the cur- dynamical terms. If we think of aridity as a time-dependent
rent trends of habitat fragmentation [2]. Under a no-mitigation parameter, movement in the aridity axis triggers responses
scenario, it was estimated that a dangerous threshold of frag- that can be seen as shifts in the (a, x) plot. The sample
mentation can be crossed in a few decades (figure 1b, provides a solid set of predictions concerning the timing of
centre). This is known as a percolation point and defines a criti- these shifts worldwide.
cal transition that separates a connected from a disconnected Another well-known case study is provided by coral
system. The sharpness of this point has been known for a reefs, which have experienced significant declines world-
long time within the context of statistical physics [49-51]. wide (figure 1d). Here too, a perfect storm of nonlinear
Specifically, if we think about a given two-dimensional habitat effects have changed these highly diverse ecosystems. A
in terms of a square lattice, and if p is the probability that a site combination of human-dominated actions along with Allee
is occupied by a tree (otherwise it would be empty) the theory effects, habitat loss and fragmentation along with pollution