their first three components. Thus each prototype was reduced group of points in the internal space which have similar pro-
to a three-dimensional array which can be represented with a totypes to each other in all modalities. We suggest that these
red-green-blue (RGB) colour. Each subfigure shows at the top clusters can be viewed as smooth categories of motor-sensory
the representation of the corresponding topological map at contingencies.

the first epochs of training. At the bottom of each subfigure,
the Euclidean distance between the same map at various

time intervals is shown. As it can be seen, this measure of (c) Concept formation as offline multimodal simulations
change stably reaches values near zero at the end of the time Starting from the cross-modal categorization system, the off-
series for all the modalities. The touch modality, where this line control system has the resources to endogenously re-enact
measure is less stable, seems to be an exception. This effect the sensorimotor states related to an internal representation,
can be ascribed to the fact that events in which the agent actu- in a way that is consistent with the grounded approach to con-
ally touches the object are only a subset of all events in which a cepts [9,11]. A representation in the topologically aligned
high value of the intrinsic learning signal is found. Thus the internal space can be used endogenously to generate a predic-
dataset of touch patterns that is used to learn the topological tion of the multimodal sensory inputs to be experienced as a
map is smaller than those of the other two sensory modalities. consequence of taking a particular action (forward model).

When the same representation in the internal space is used to

(b) Development of a cross-modal and action-oriented “’enact @ motor programme in the policy space (inverse
model), an action as a meaningful goal-directed movement

categorization system is realized. This sensorimotor re-enactment is shown in
Once the topological maps are steadily formed, the proto- figure 3d, using the visual modality as an example of what it