own. In a very real sense, the entire evolutionary history of oped and accumulated—throughout human evolution (and
the human species, from the very beginning until today, is then human history)—an ever-growing variety of unique
the story of this new space — how we gradually filled it up communicative tools that are specifically designed for

and how it gradually changed us. instructive communication.


While we humans share many communicative behaviours some perceptual information to B: M is the object pointed | 5 |

with the animals, and especially with the apes, we also use a at. This is of course correct, but it only tells half of the
wide set of communicative behaviours and tools that are story. What happens in this event, which eventually allows
uniquely our own. What makes all of them our own is the B to get the message, is a process in which A instructs B’s
fact that they are (at least partially) designed for instructive visual computations: A tells B where to look. The instruction
communication. Language is obviously the most prominent says: look at me; then look at my arm and concentrate on
among our communicative tools: in [13] I show that it is my finger; follow the line from my finger to the ground;
best analysed as a tool of instructive communication, and see the object there. When B follows these instructions, he
we shall get back to this shortly. But language is not alone. or she actually allows A to take command, if only momenta-
On the one hand, we have everything that humans have rily, of his or her perceptual behaviour. For the duration of =
developed after language, in the last 100 thousand years or the pointing event, A handles B in a way that is similar to 5
so—from plastic art, through writing, all the way to the the way we handle a camera, the way we move it around =
social media. While these deserve their own re-analysis as to put the lens in line with the object we want to capture. B=
tools of instructive communication, I will not touch on this follows the instructions, and sends instructive messages Ss
issue here. back, by eye-contact, nodding and gesturing: I saw it, you =
On the other side of language, we have an entire toolkit of can stop pointing; or, I see nothing there, can you point = 5!
communicative behaviours that are already uniquely human more accurately? Eventually, they look each other in the eye = >