ants; internal features of termite mounds. In humans per- poses. Whether a phenomenon is best understood as belonging
haps the most striking case is language. Language consists to one of the four categories may require careful study. Differ-
primarily of transient signals, yet words do not constantly ent characteristics of a certain phenomenon might best be
disappear simply because they have not been used in a categorized in different categories. For example, if a technology
while. Rather, words are used in various frequencies, in of production of tools can be acquired by observing completed
such a way that the population as a whole maintains these artefacts, these artefacts may constitute a stable DA. However,
frequencies mostly stable. These stable frequencies are main- if it turns out that to maintain the technological industry it is
tained by a diverse population of speakers, at different life necessary to have multiple copies of tools, at various stages
stages, and with different interests and activities. Various of production, then the phenomenon would fall under dyna-
changes to the population, in particular its size, may result mically stable DA; if it also requires instruction provided by
in change in the size of the vocabulary or the frequencies another individual, which is socially organized, such as teach-
of words. Many other factors are of course involved, and ing, elements of it might be best described as an ephemeral DA.
active research is being done on the relationship between In fact, combining the theoretical analysis of the different kinds
population features and language features [30-32]. of DA with empirical evidence about the stability and longev-

A more speculative case is that of relationships between ity of past technologies, to support their classification to one of
a population of artefacts coupled to a population that pro- the four cases, may help develop further hypotheses about how
duces them. Taking a cue from the current crop of studies they were maintained over time.
of the relationship between language and its speaker The purpose of this paper is to argue that over the course
population, it would be interesting to see models of acqui- of human evolution human groups made use of various
sition of tool-making that explore the effects of the kinds of DAs, for several ecological ends; to offer general
number and types of tutors and diversity of examples observations about several kinds of DAs and about their
that learners encounter in their learning. To what extent potential cognitive and social dimensions; and to consider
is exposure to a diversity of styles and artefacts at differ- whether DAs played a role in colonization of new areas
ent phases of production a necessary condition for and niches. We begin by presenting two examples in slightly