carrying red fluorescent protein (RFP, red) and the other green communities furthest from an equal ratio of red to green cells
fluorescent protein (GFP, green)). Communities with an equal are marked for extinction. From the surviving communities
ratio of green to red—thus yellow—have by definition the high- (with colour closest to yellow), two samples of cells are taken
est fitness and hence are the most likely to persist. Experimental and transferred to two wells in a fresh plate: each viable
realization, via communities maintained in microtitre plates community thus leaves two offspring communities. In order
rather that a milli-fluidic device, is shown in figure 2. to understand the effect of community-level selection, a

Communities—comprising initially equal ratios of red and control is included in which communities marked for death
green cells—are packaged into the wells of microtitre plates. and birth are chosen at random and with no regard for
Such packaging ensures variation at the level of communities. community-level colour.
Reproduction is effected by sampling cells from each commu- In the absence of community-level selection, the fate of
nity, with transfer of the sample to a new well replete with fresh communities is driven by cell-level fitness. Green cells have
medium. Heredity is delivered by the fact that offspring a growth rate advantage over red cells and thus green rapidly
communities are established directly from a sample of cells fixes at the community level. In marked contrast, selection on
derived from the parental community. Community-level selec- communities, based on a community-level function (colour),
tion unfolds via a birth—-death process (figure 2b) that depends counters cell-level fitness effects and allows maintenance of
on community function (the colour yellow). yellow communities (figure 2e).

At periodic intervals the colour of each independent Although there are genealogical connections between
community is determined by placing the microtitre plate parent and offspring communities, it is important to recognize

in a device capable of recording fluorescence. Half of the that the likelihood that offspring communities resemble


parental communities—at least at the start of the experiment— once independently replicating genes ona single self-replicating [5 |