are interactions. Drawing from recognized egalitarian tran- foundly one to another. Variation thus exists at the level of
sitions, extreme scenarios might involve acquisition of the societies. Even though human societies share many features
gene encoding RFP by the green bacterium (or vice versa), with social insects, human societies do not leave offspring
or engulfment of the red bacterium by the green (or vice societies that resemble parental societies in the way that
versa). Less radical solutions stand to arise from physical beehives leave offspring colonies [44].
attachment of red and green cells, or from the evolution Selection may nonetheless operate on societies [45,46],
of interactions mediated through allelopathic or density- such that one society may expand and replace another, but
dependent effects. this is largely an ecological process akin to replacement
The latter receives strong support from theoretical studies of red squirrels by grey squirrels in parts of the United
where models that allow evolutionary change in parameters Kingdom. Political, cultural and religious ideas may similarly
that affect density-dependent interactions show the emergence spread via horizontal transmission, thus selection may oper-
of developmental-like processes that correct for stochastic fluctu- ate on properties of societies [40], generating group-level
ations in the ratio of founding cells [29]. In fact, so effective is the adaptations [47,48], but again, there is little sense of societies
‘developmental corrector’ that the parent—offspring relationship acting as units of selection in their own right, as for example,
continues to remain heritable even after removal of exogenously is the case with bee colonies.
imposed scaffolds. As in the reed example above, changes such Drawing upon ideas from ecological scaffolding, and
as these mark steps toward the endogenization of Darwinian leaving aside ethical concerns, it would be possible, in prin-
properties (at the collective level). ciple, to impose, via an overarching politically or religiously

driven structure, rules that assign people to groups, restrict
reproduction so that it occurs exclusively among members

4. Plausible evolutionary transitions in of each group, and forbid migration between groups. Such
rarer os an arrangement would ensure variation at the level of
individuality in humans groups. But what of reproduction and heredity?