
dinates of the information—which B is then expected to ever, this merging of the emergence of language with the
decipher and use as a formal set of instructions for imagining. emergence of cumulative culture is quite problematic for a
The interlocutor analyses the code, uses the words (or more very simple reason: cumulative culture began to emerge a
technically, the morphemes) to raise past experiences from very long time before language. Following Chomsky and
his or her own memory, and then reconstructs and recom- others, Maynard-Smith and Szathmary estimate that language
bines them, based on the grammatical arrangement of the emerged in Homo sapiens, sometime within the last 200 thou-
morphemes, to produce a novel, imagined representation. sand years. According to other estimates, language emerged
Language allows communicators to instruct their interlocu- around a half a million years ago, before Homo sapiens [49]. I
tors’ imaginary computations, to make them imagine things think there are very solid reasons to accept the second view,
they have not experienced by themselves. This is what but this way or the other no-one claims that language emerged
makes language unique: it breaks the glass ceiling of much earlier than that. =
experience. The fact, however, is that we begin to see serious signs of r=
With language, groups of human individuals can engage the uniquely human evolutionary trajectory—where cultures __
in collaborative projects that are no longer limited to the here- begin to assume their cumulative nature—as far back astwo =:
and-now of their shared experiences: to share information million years ago, and all the signs are definitely there a = S'
gathered away from the group (this is Charles Hockett’s dis- million years ago or so: complex tool manufacturing [50], col- >
placement [46]), to create cultural worldviews that are based lective foraging and big game hunting [9,51], alloparenting =
on stories from distant places and distant times time [47], 52], control of fire and cooking [53], and collective rituals 3
and to populate their worlds with things that some of their 54]. All these definitely required a major upgrade in com- =
members (and sometimes all of them) have never experienced munication. Maynard-Smith and Szathmary acknowledge 3
but only heard about (often from someone who had also only the gap between the early beginnings and the emergence of s
heard about it). As importantly, language allows individuals language and put the burden of bridging this gap on what =
to channel into each other’s imagination new types of they call, following some of the linguistic literature, protolan- S
thoughts and ideas, requests and orders, questions and guage: a system of communication with a small lexicon and