its maximum value during the simulations inevitably leads our species, but on the basis of our model's predictions, we sup-
to extinction during the transition phase. port the proposition [17] that a syntax-free protolanguage may = =
All the variables related to individual and group fitness are have been the point of departure for that long evolutionary pro- 5"
improved by the time the transition from the berry to the car- cess. An exciting experiment [51] with communicating human >
rion phase is completed. Of course, this model does not agents confirms that syntax is not essential for the coordination =
consider any effect of the resource shift on the basic fitness of of simple cooperative tasks to be surprisingly efficient—all that = &
the hominins due to direct changes in diet or indirect ones is needed for harvesting most of the benefits of cooperation is =
through extra time becoming available for manufacturing abstraction and a very limited vocabulary. Following phases 3
tools and for cultural activities—factors with likely significant of language evolution—including the invention of syntactical
positive effects on life expectancy. What improves with the rules to accurately transmit subtle message details—may have =
transition in the model is the average energy level of the been built on the solid, ecologically founded evolutionary ©
agents (electronic supplementary material, figure S1a), which advantage of using a protolanguage. The uniqueness of natural ~
results in lower death rates due to starvation, but this improve- language is explained by the fact that protolanguage evolved
ment is partly compensated by the increase in deaths due to into syntactical language in a species with a large brain sustain-
predation during scavenging missions. The latter is the selec- ing the necessary complex computations and other complex
tion load of evolving accurate communication (figure 2). cognitive features—those that were no option for tiny bees [17].

Improved group fitness variables include the number of chil-
dren supported and the release of superfluous young adults

(emigrants) from the horde (figure 3a; electronic supplemen- Data accessibility. All the computer files employed in this study can be

tary material, figure S3)—a possible large-scale side effect of found at https://github.com/andszilagyi/ELBA_model. .

which could have been the first out-of-Africa dispersal wave The data are provided in the electronic supplementary material