(although in insects there is a biological component in the sense system the evolutionary histories of diverse species are
that the formation occurs through mutation and selection in pulled in the same direction. In other words, it is the emer-
insects over a long span of time). It refers to the cohesive gence of an economic structure and dynamic particular to
whole brought about by agriculture and the architecture that the agricultural system that bears down on the evolutionary
underlies it. Some insect species are superorganisms, although path of species with a certain evolved disposition toward
all insect superorganisms do not practise agriculture. No sociality. To say then that agriculture is merely a specific
humans are superorganisms in the way insects are, but expression of an insect superorganism or a specific extension
some insect species and most of humanity became economic of the human capacity for culture does not give the agricul-
superorganisms when they engaged agriculture. tural system its due. The human capacity for culture which
Economic superorganisms are joined in a vast enterprise of includes the deployment of the division of labour works
cultivation affecting the fitness of the group, the integrity of juickly to engage the agriculture system but the agricultural
the individual vis 4 vis the group, and the relationship of the system is not merely an artefact of or extension of the human
group to the world outside the group. It is a powerful and capacity for culture. In fact, it may influence the direction
enduring system. There is no category for economic superor- of cultural evolution in a way that assures that all
ganism in the lexicon of evolutionary biology nor any aspects of culture support the foundational structure and
particular evolutionary distinction to this transition. This dynamic of the agricultural system.
owes partly to the preoccupations of those that study sociality A few words about the division of labour and its role in the
and extreme cooperation. The mechanisms of engagement choreography of the agricultural system are in order. Econom-
(culture and genetic change through mutation and selection) ists have long understood that there are efficiencies to the

of the agricultural system hold centre stage in discussions of division of labour that are universal and undeniable. Biologists


studying insect superorganisms note the same. Efficiencies value is generated in production and realized in sale where
