becomes more structurally interdependent as a result of the runs out of resources but by a problematic linkage between
division of labour around cultivation. The evolutionary biol- savings and investment for example—this is part of the =
ogist Peter Corning refers to the division of labour as the internal logic of the system.'* Global capitalism fertilized >
paradox of dependency. He tells us: ’... there isa deep paradox with the use of fossil fuel brings the duality between econ- — __
involved in dividing up and sharing the elements of a job. It omy and Earth that began with the agricultural system to =
creates an interdependency; everyone must do their part or its apogee. Constraints to expansion imposed by energy are = S'
the desired outcome will not be achieved.’ The division of temporarily removed and the internal logic of the system is = >
labour creates ‘a built-in enforcer for cooperation’ [18, p. 50]. left to play itself out independent of biophysical constraints

Clearly the deployment of a division of labour and role par- [10]'®. We are just now experiencing that problematic duality =
titioning and coordination need not rely on unique attributes of (and the necessity of reconnection) with climate change and =
human culture because insect economic superorganisms do it the sixth mass extinction. =
without culture, and by noting this fact we shift our focus We might ask whether the unique capacity for sociality s
from the mechanisms of engagement to the pull and power and its grounding in culture in humans was hijacked through =
of the new whole in the form of the agricultural system the engagement of an economic superorganism thatintheend ==
[19.31 might note as an aside that insects often communicate works against the continued evolution of human intelligence ~
through chemical signals so they do not have culture but they and violates the best impulses of human cooperation—that
have evolved the capacity for communication, which facilitates is, to live in ecological community. This runs contrary to the
the deployment of certain aspects of their division of labour. belief that humans are on a continuum of gene-culture coevo-

One way to look at the division of labour more expansively lution that is bringing about a new major transition into a ‘new
is that, like social learning, the division of labour is a potential- kind of animal’ where we are becoming increasingly prosocial.
ity that crosses species boundaries. Just as human culture is a That is to say, humans are becoming ‘more attentive parents,
unique expression of the universal tendency toward social loyal mates, good friends (reciprocators, and upstanding com-
learning, agriculture is a unique expression of the universal munity members’ and ‘possess institutions that make group