benefit others through one’s competitive behaviour (e.g. as Prisoner’s Dilemma and public goods games were not
socially oriented incentives, [51]) and the information about included, and so did studies involving interactions among
the interaction partner (e.g. anonymity, [5]). The identification acquaintances). It is worth noting that our goal was not to
of additional contextual features can contribute to a more perform an exact replication of previous work. Nevertheless,
comprehensive understanding of the mixed patterns of the conceptual replication of the main effect provides even
findings on gender differences in cooperation. stronger evidence that there is no main overall association

In addition, in the present meta-analysis, gender differ- between gender and cooperation. Furthermore, the lack of
ences in cooperation did not vary across societies. This moderation of the association between gender and
evidence is in line with studies showing little evidence for cooperation suggests that these moderation effects are not
cross-cultural variation of gender differences in prosocial be- very robust to variations in the data selection and analytic
haviour in children from both industrialized and small-scale techniques—and so should be interpreted with caution. The
societies [52]. Here, studies conducted in societies at different fact that the moderating effects were not robust to these
levels of gender equality and economic development dis- adjustments suggest that even small variations of the context
played very similar cooperation by men and women. can be crucial to elicit (or not) gender differences in
Although differences would be expected in light of social cooperation. For example, the present meta-analysis included
role theory [13,27], these findings are in line with recent additional studies from more recent years, and there have
empirical evidence showing that gender inequality was not been changes in samples and methods in the literature over
associated with differences in magnitude of gender differ- time, such as more recent studies having (a) a greater percen-
ences in cooperative behaviour in a Prisoner’s Dilemma in tage of women, (b) fewer student samples, and (c) a stronger
10 countries [5]. Compared to Dorrough & Gléckner’s conflict of interests (ie. lower K value) [47]. Future studies

study [5], our meta-analysis included a broader range of might consider to experimentally manipulate the situational

