that found greater cooperation from men in same-sex and iour. Accordingly, gender differences can emerge across
repeated interactions, but greater cooperation from women in societies in response of the existing socio-ecological conditions.
larger groups and more recent studies [12]. However, these Recent empirical evidence is in line with this prediction, detect-
theories make predictions about additional situational and ing substantial variation in the magnitude of gender differences
societal dimensions that might moderate the relation between in cooperation in a Prisoner’s Dilemma setting across 10
gender and cooperation that have not yet been tested. societies [5] and 12 societies [4]. However, evidence about the

The degree of conflict of interests characterizing the situation societal factors underlying this variation is still limited. Accord-
is a feature that can elicit differential responses in cooperation ing to social role theory, gender roles are not established in a
from men and women. Situations involving high conflict of social vacuum, but they are deeply rooted in the division of
interests expose individuals to greater vulnerability for coopera- labour in a given society [13]. The division of labour, in turn,
tive behaviours to be exploited, as relatively higher gains can be is affected not only by sex-specific physical and reproductive
achieved from defecting over cooperating. In fact, recent research attributes, but also by the demands posed by the social and
has consistently observed lower cooperation in interactions economic environment [11]. Thus, it is possible to expect
involving non-corresponding interests (see [19] for a recent more cooperation from women in societies characterized by
meta-analysis) and trust to be especially relevant in these situ- low levels of gender equality and economic development, as
ations [20]. However, differential cooperative responses in in these societies gender stereotypes might be more likely to

situations that expose to greater vulnerability could be expected be pervasive. To date, evidence supporting this prediction is


mixed. For example, in matrilinear societies in which traditional 2. Cooperation is assessed exclusively in interactions with
gender roles are reversed, women display more competitive- strangers;
ness than men in competitive tasks, compared to patriarchal 3. Cooperation is provided over all trials of the game or during
societies that more closely resemble Western cultures gender the first period; oe ;