and yet they are all perceived to have a different 3D structure. of the two-dimensional shape of texture elements on the
For example, the images containing only shading or texture image. In figure 1b, the texture gradient is larger than the tex-
information look flatter than the image containing both shad- ture gradient in figure 1d, hence the texture cue in figure 1b is
ing and texture information. Moreover, the surface with stronger than the texture cue in figure 1d. Note, however, that
polka-dot texture (figure 1b) looks deeper than the one with figure 1d does not look ‘noisier’ than figure 1b, but it defi-
only shading information (figure 1c) and also deeper than nitely looks shallower. For the new theory the source of a
the surface covered with a less effective texture pattern module output variability is the change of ‘nuisance’ par-
(figure 1d). Second, the assumption that module outputs ameters such as the object material properties, the
are noisy also clashes with simple phenomenological obser- illumination conditions, the object distance from the observer,
vations. Repeated viewing of any of the three surfaces in etc., which can in principle cause sizable changes in the cue
figure 1 does not seem to produce any detectable changes strength. In the examples of figure 1, the nuisance variable
in their perceived 3D structure. This is also echoed in the affecting the texture cue is the material composition of the
fact that the perceived shape of objects in the real world objects and the nuisance variable affecting the shading cue
appears stable and unambiguous and does not appear to is the illumination condition. The new theory, name Intrinsic
change over successive viewings. In this paper, I will describe Constraint (IC) theory, postulates that processing of indepen-
a new theory of cue integration that does not require any of dent depth modules and their combination thereof, is done in
the assumptions of the probabilistic inference model of a way to minimize the sensitivity to nuisance parameters
depth cues and depth-cue integration. First, the new theory while maximizing the response to changes of distal 3D prop-
assumes that the output of individual depth modules is line- erties. The combination of module outputs is achieved by the
arly related to distal 3D properties, but that this linear Vector Sum model, which combines the output of individual
relationship is not necessarily accurate. Second, it assumes modules through a vector sum. In contrast with the MLE
that this linear mapping between distal 3D properties and model, this vector sum does not weigh the individual

module outputs is deterntinistic, since the ‘noise’ intrinsic to module outputs and, therefore, does not require any estimate
