of scaled depth (exocentric distances) is thought to primarily recent neuroimaging evidence [88,89] reveals selective
rely on the scaling of binocular disparity by binocular distance activation of dorsal visual areas (posterior parietal cortex)
cues. There has long been debate on the effectiveness of for contrasts between conditions where the impression of
binocular distance cues (e.g. vergence, vertical disparity) for stereopsis is present (stereoscopic images, monocular aper-
derivation of egocentric distance (see [82,83]). Even if these ture viewing of single pictures) and conditions where it is
cues were valid, disparity scaling by vergence (or vertical absent (binocular viewing of single pictures). The fact that
disparity) would likely only be effective within reach space the same parietal regions are activated under both binocular
(1-2 m; [38,83]). This implies that available visual information and monocular stereopsis provides neurophysiological sup-
restricts effective derivation of scaled intra- and inter-object dis- port to the view that the phenomenology of object solidity,
tances to a limited region of space near the observer. By contrast, tangibility and spatial separation that underlies our
tasks requiring judgements of egocentric distance to targets in impression of realness of a 3D scene derives from cortical
action space and beyond (greater than 2 m; e.g. blind walking mechanisms that are independent of the specific cues (e.g.
to previewed targets) are thought to rely on ground plane infor- binocular disparity) that activate them. The fact that this
mation, perspective scaling and declination from eye level (see region of the brain also underlies visuo-motor control of
[48,68,84,85]), which are mostly useful only for distances outside reaching and grasping lends credence to the link between
the personal space of the observer (greater than 2 m). the phenomenology of stereopsis and realness and the
awareness of the capacity for motor interaction [13].
Existing neurophysiological evidence that has examined
(e) Tripartite encoding of 3D space: neurophysiology the neural correlates of the perception of 3D shape from var-
The hypothesis that the perception of 3D space in humans is ious cues (disparity, texture, shading, etc.) suggests that the
based on a tripartite encoding is also supported by neurophy- potential locus for the encoding of 3D object shape is in
siological evidence. The well-established division of the dorsal aspects of the extrastriate cortex (V3a) as well as
primate visual pathways into the ventral (temporal) and early aspects of the temporal cortex, particularly the occi-
dorsal (parietal) streams of processing [86,87], and the pito-temporal cortex and areas extending to posterior
locus of areas underlying navigation and locomotion in the temporal regions [90-94]. The area most typically highlighted