removal of disparity is not by itself the determining factor for perceptual attributes, is able to successfully account for them. =
the enhancement in depth impression [18]. Finally, pictorial a

depth itself has been found to not follow the statistical optim-

ality proposed by the MLE model [37], weakening arguments (( Psychophysics and phenomenology of egocentric

applying this framework to explain monocular stereopsis. and exocentric distance at the ambulatory scale

In terms of the diminishment of the strength of the An important explanatory challenge to inferential models
phenomenological impression of depth separation at greater already described above is the diminishment in the phenom-
viewing distances, inferential models often ascribe it to the enological impression of exocentric depth separation between
fact that binocular disparities rapidly reduce in size with objects (at increasing distance from the observer), even
viewing distance (e.g. [20]). However, this explanation contra- though the phenomenological impression of the distances
dicts the main assumption regarding depth from disparities to objects (egocentric distance) does not appear to similarly
in these models. According to these models, what is ‘per- diminish with distance from the observer. Empirical findings
ceived’ as depth are not the retinal disparities themselves, have long confirmed this dissociation. Human observers can
but the depth values derived from scaling disparities with accurately estimate the egocentric distance to an object up to
egocentric distance cues (e.g. [4,20,38]). Disparity detection least 25 m using a blind walking paradigm [39]. However, in
is accurate and precise for even very small disparities, and studies where observers were asked to judge both the
egocentric distance perception is accurate to at least 25m egocentric distance to and exocentric distance between two
[39], suggesting there should be no noticeable decrease in dis- separate objects, results show accurate estimation of
parity-derived depth at these distances. Yet, the phenomenal egocentric distances (using a blind walking paradigm) but
impression of depth separation (stereopsis) shows marked significant inaccuracy (underestimation) of the exocentric
reduction at even these distances [18]. distance between the same two objects when matching to