
How is this different from the traditional triangulation
the visual system attempts to keep the red bar on the right of account? The key is that this rivalry is unique to my account,
the white square and the blue bar on left of the white square. because it’s a problem caused by the visual system treating the
two retinal images as two views from the same location, and
therefore vision is faced with a seemingly impossible dilemma

Figure 5. Cross-fuse to see that the visual system attempts to keep the red
bar on the right of the white square and the blue bar on the left of the white
square. (Online version in colour.)

(d) Stereo depth perception = rivalry eradication of reconciling them. By contrast, on traditional accounts, there
The fact that stereo vision doesn’t delete makes no sense on a is no rivalry to resolve because you can construct a coherent
triangulation account. But perhaps it hints at what stereo model of the world like figure 1 (although rivalry can inform
vision is doing instead. So far, I’ve emphasized that the the initial matching process in the two eyes [28]).
visual system doesn’t know the rotation of the eyes, so it is More accurately, on my account, there’s no such thing as
unable to triangulate the distance or direction of points in the location of the eyes, or a model of the world, so far as the
the world. ‘Not deleting’ goes further and suggests that the visual system is concerned. All vision has is two rivalling 2D
visual system doesn’t even know that the eyes are in different images that overlap with one another, and the visual system
locations in space. Specifically, not deleting would make a lot tries to integrate them (as best it can) into a single coherent per-
of sense if the visual system thought that the eyes were cept. It’s important to understand that 3D vision solves this
receiving two views from the same location in space. problem like a jigsaw; forcing the two pieces together to see
Indeed, I want to push this thought further and say the what emerges. It has nothing to do with estimating the 3D
visual system isn’t thinking about vision in terms of locations properties of the world.
