remains relatively unexplored. As far as we know, barring and function across most languages [26].
special social conventions and taboos (like gesturing with A fourth essential feature of the ‘interaction engine’ is the
the left hand in West Africa [13], or gazing too intently in attribution of intent to utterances, requiring the ability (invol-
Mayan societies [14]), this multimodal deployment looks ving what has been called ‘theory of mind’) to model the
very similar across language after language. speaker’s communicative goal in order to aid comprehension
Fast turn-taking is a central property of conversation. As (see [27]). This is a crucial property because linguistic
mentioned, turns are on average just under 2 s long, and the structures are never fully determined—they require disambi-
modal gap between turns is, depending a bit on the sample, guation and contextual resolution, as fits the direction of the
around 200 ms. Two hundred milliseconds approximates the talk. An utterance like ‘Making a new vaccine will take some
speed of the fastest human response time to an expected time’ is a truism, but in context will have a definite interpret-
signal, so turn-taking is at the extremes of human performance. ation; ‘Don’t forget to call what’s his name’ presumes the
Even more suprising is that this rapid response can be achieved addressee can figure out who the speaker had in mind; ‘Well
despite the fact that the latency for word retrieval and speech done!’ will not be congratulations in response to ‘I’ve lost the
encoding is upwards of 600 ms—in practice to encode a sen- front door key’. More generally, because of finite vocabularies,

tence from scratch will take well over a second [15,16]. The inevitable vagueness and ambiguities, and the fact that the


speech act (the main point) is often not coded, few utterances to the interactional niche. Consider for example the so-called

fully specify the intended message. Consider the exchange: McGurk effect, wherein people hearing ‘ba’ but seeing lips

moving as if for ‘ga’ hear an intermediary sound, often ‘da’
A: Tcould eat the whole of that cake!’ [31]. The phenomenon illustrates the confluence of auditory
B: ‘Oh thanks’’, and visual information experienced in the interactional