but fail to mimic when they find themselves in competition individual by sacrificing the interdependence of natural face-
[38,39]. Yet all one can firmly conclude is that the experimen- to-face interactions. Specifically, if we wish to claim that some
tal manipulation is causing a change in the group. For measure of Player A in the Prisoner’s Dilemma (our dependent
example, friends will show more neural synchrony than variable) is caused by some behaviour of Player B (our indepen-
strangers when watching a debate alone in their own home, dent variable), we must ensure that the behaviour of Player B is
not because they respond to each other but because they not, in turn, dependent on prior behaviours of Player A. Using
are interpreting the same environmental events with similar this approach, Van Kleef et al. [44] sought to establish that
goals [40]. Similarly, the fact that negotiators with comp- expressions of anger by a negotiator cause concessions in the
lementary goals become synchronized could simply reflect negotiator’s partner. Each participant (Player A) engaged in a
their reactions to a shared task. negotiation with what they believed to be another participant
The problem with inferring individual mechanisms from (Player B) over the Internet (figure 2a). Player A took turns
group behaviour is that features of the interaction, like syn- sending and receiving offers and text messages with Player
chrony, simply provide evidence of an association, but to B. In fact, Player B was a scripted computer program that pro-
show causality it is necessary (though not sufficient) to estab- duced angry (or happy) statements on pre-programmed
lish temporal precedence. Thus, there is growing interest in rounds (e.g. ‘Your offer makes me angry’), and made conces-
the use of dynamic systems methods to show temporal sions according to a pre-programmed schedule (e.g. offer
precedence from dyadic data. For example, actor—partner $115 on round two and $120 on round three, etc.). The exper-
methods [41,42] or lag analysis [43] can show, for example, iment showed that participants concede more to an angry
that if Player A in the Prisoner’s Dilemma smiles, Player B opponent. Van Kleef et al. also provided evidence for the mech-
tends to also smile, with a small delay. This temporal pre- anism. They hypothesized Player B’s anger acts as a signal that
cedence suggests Player A is the leader and Player B is alters the participant’s belief in Player B’s willingness to
adapting their own behaviour in response. Using such concede. This was supported via statistical mediation on
methods, Mendes and colleagues examined mixed-race subjective reports about Player B’s limits.
dyads and argued that African-Americans ‘catch’ the anxiety Unfortunately, this increase in control over the individual
of their European—American conversation partners, but not can destroy the very interactivity one hopes to study. For