shifts in affect during social play that were ‘solicited’ (i.e. preceded by the same affect state in the mother during the 1 s time window immediately before) versus
‘unsolicited’ (i.e. showing a different affect state in the mother during the 1 s time window immediately before). ‘Mother social’, ‘infant solo’ and ‘mother solo’ show
the same comparisons for the mother’s affect shifts, and for the solo play conditions, respectively. Error bars show the standard error of the means. Significance
values of the comparison between the real and control data are indicated as follows: *p < 0.05, **p < 0.1. (Online version in colour.)

with which their partner was playing, or active communica- affect. This indicates that, overall, mothers were leading the
tive behaviour from a mother, such as direct eye contact. positive affect in the interaction (figure 82). The latter finding
These results advance the existing descriptive literature that is perhaps surprising given evidence that parents reliably
maternal engagement in infant play contributes to increased mimic infant positive affect displays such as smiles [41].
positive affect in infants during mother-infant social play Yet, figure 9c suggests that parental affect does increase
[56-59]. Our finding also refines previous reports that during the time window following infant shifts to positive
infant positive affect is uniquely expressed in a dyadic con- affect, indicating that parents are mimicking infant positive
text [8,24,33] by empirically demonstrating that positive affect. The fact that, overall, mothers’ shifts to positive affect
affect is expressed without an active interaction partner were found to occur independently of the child’s positive
during play, possibly owing to the nature of play, but is affect suggests, then, that parents are also using positive
enhanced by a dyadic interactive context. Furthermore, our affect at times when the child is not (e.g. smiling to their
results showed that affect synchrony between infants and child at times when the child is not smiling). Second, our
mothers is higher during social play than solo play (ie. results also suggested that mothers’ shifts to negative affect
chance level), as shown both by calculating the proportion during social play tended (at a trend level) to occur contin-
of time in a shared affect state (§3b), and from the cross-cor- gently in response to their infants’ negative affect displays
relation analysis (§3c). Again, these differences are due to (figure 8b), indicating that, overall, infants were leading the
engagement in shared play, and not simply due to the negative affect in the interaction. This latter finding is unsur-
parent being within the child’s line of sight, as this was pre- prising given research that parents tend to match their
sent in both conditions. This is in line with the literature affective state to their infants during the co-regulation of
discussing the importance of parental sensitivity and respon- negative emotions [8,37,82]. In sum, the current study