equally capable of finding signalling and non-signalling ings, but this probability is not very large unless 7 is large,
females. It means that signalling does not elevate females’ making males inefficient at finding her, and T is small, mean-
visibility. Signalling only helps D males to recognize signal- ing that signalling time is limiting). If there are matings
ling females as a mating partner. This allows us to focus on during her signalling time, then we investigate two distinct
the key question (can signalling evolve to ensure that non-sig- scenarios, which differ in the biological mechanism we envi-
nalling times are spent without unnecessary male attention?) sage behind last male sperm precedence. In scenario 0, we

as signals in our model do not make a female easier to find. assume that all males that mated with her during the time of


her signalling are equally competitive with respect to sperm of time. We denote the probability that she experiences | 4 |

competition. In other words, in scenario 0, the fact that d precisely k matings of this type by La(k), where L stands for ‘late’:
males have a larger pool of females to mate with is not k Tm,
(Tmg)"e" 1"
assumed to make them sperm-depleted, and any last male La(k) = (2.4)
sperm precedence reflects new sperm displacing older sperm :
instead. By contrast, scenario 1 assumes that d males do Third, D males perceive signalling S females as a target,
suffer from sperm depletion and are consequently less resulting in a per-female mating rate 1p. We adopt the nota-
competitive in each of their matings. To investigate the maxi- tion Ap(k) for the probability that k matings happen to a
mum effect that this can have, we assume that D males have female (once again, the letter A reflects these being all the
absolute paternity advantage when they mate. To be precise, matings between S females and D males). This rate is applied
in scenario 1, a d male that has mated with a signalling for T units of time, yielding probabilities
female can only become the sire if she has not mated with (Tmp)‘e-™™ =
any D males. In other words, should a female have mated Ap(k) = er (2.5) a