an ES rate of zero switching. Carja et al. [169] generalize this Some of these of these assumptions are probably less restric-
approach to the evolution of recombination, mutation and tive than others. For example, assumption (vi) may not be
migration in fluctuating environments. They first show that very limiting as many organisms are haploid or diploid
the rate of environmental fluctuation has the same effect on and ESS models of other genetic systems like haplodiploidy
ES recombination and migration rates as it does on ES can be studied by adding demographic structure using
mutation rates, namely that slower rates of fluctuation lead matrix population models [144,170,171] like the one
to slower recombination, mutation and migration rates (see described in ยง6 on ESS and inclusive fitness. The large popu-
fig. 1 in [169]). In other words, as the rate of environmental lation size assumption (iv) also can be relaxed by using
change slows, so do the ES rates of genetic and demographic stochastic population models that allow for genetic drift
processes that generate genetic variation. Carja et al. [169] also and use fixation probability as a fitness measure instead of
show that these ES rates all decrease with increasing rates of invasion fitness [107,172-175]. Assumption (v) is more diffi-
recombination between the major and modifier loci (see fig. cult to relax since doing so allows multiple mutants to
S5 in [169]). This can be understood as owing to the fact occur at a time. Analysis of such multi-mutant invasions is
that the strength of indirect selection at the modifier locus beyond the scope of the mathematical tools typically used
decreases as increased recombination erodes linkage disequi- in evolutionary analysis. One potential route forward for
librium between the major and modifier loci. such analyses might be to follow Luo and Cooney who

used non-local integro-differential partial differential
equations to study the evolution of cooperation via multilevel
selection [47,176-179].

Assumption (i) that there are two behaviours or strategies

8. Assumptions of long-term evolution and is particularly important. In practice, games like rock paper
: : . scissors [89,91,102,180] involving three or more strategies