mined relative fitness payoffs, and thus how long each boyhood, he felt that the Hawk—Dove game did not capture S
contestant could ‘afford’ to fight. This analysis resulted in an how animals fight. It was only with time that he came to ©
‘assessor rule’ for contest outcomes, relating to the benefit/ appreciate its value as a guide for clarifying thinking. What =
cost ratios of the two opponents. Maynard Smith reviewed we wish to emphasize here is that researchers can be attracted = 5
the paper, found it interesting, and investigated a different to a method because of its perceived deficiencies: they then =
case: a situation where asymmetry between contestants was feel they have something to offer. =
not related to payoffs. He showed that when fighting Consultation of Maynard Smith’s and Price’s papers held __
can lead to dangerous injury, a purely arbitrary (i.e. payoff- at the British Library shows in retrospect that Enquist and] =:
uncorrelated) asymmetry between otherwise symmetric were in good company in questioning the realism of the = 5!
contestants could be used to define a ‘peaceful’ (i.e. non- early Hawk-Dove models. It transpires that Maynard Smith = >
escalatory) solution. He published this result in the same and Price had themselves been worried by the relevance of =
issue of Journal of Theoretical Biology in 1974 [34], immediately game theory to the analysis of conflicts in real animals. = &
before my paper on assessment strategies [42]. Price was anxious to get his facts right and searched iat

Maynard Smith invited me to Sussex for discussions in for appropriate references in the empirical literature 3
July 1974, and we corresponded on the topic for two years. (G. R. Price to V. Geist, 24 March 1974, JMSP). Similarly, sy
A more substantial account has been given elsewhere [41] Maynard Smith consulted his ethologist friends for advice, =
of our subsequent collaboration, which applied ESS logic to but with limited success. On their own admission, his S
contests in which contestants have asymmetric costs and former colleagues at the University of Sussex were unim-
benefits of fighting (i.e. payoff-related asymmetries) [43]. pressed (P. Slater 2011, personal communication to J.B.G.):
Although at that time I had limited mathematical expertise there seemed to be a huge gap between the complex beha-
and was unable to contribute significantly to the mathemat- viours studied by ethologists and the theoretical analyses
ical developments, I sent several letters to Maynard Smith using simplified strategies. But for others, this gap was a
during 1974 suggesting various lines of enquiry, a few of stimulation to embrace theoretical biology.
which were followed up in our joint paper, published in Models and further observations have challenged the