Fisher’s suggestion seems not to have had a major influence about Cold-War theorizing, and even had a contract on a
on biology, although the importance of frequency depen- never-finished book about the Cold War, as is described in a
dence for the evolution of polymorphic Batesian mimicry is biography [27]. Price had broad interests and, although not pri-
widely recognized [15,16]. marily a biologist, in 1968 he submitted a manuscript on game

An ambitious attempt to use game theory to describe theory of animal contests to the journal Nature (these events
adaptation to variable environments was developed in 1961 were researched by Oren Harman [27,28]). The title of the
by Lewontin [17], using the idea that populations can be manuscript was ‘Antlers, intraspecific combat, and altruism’.
viewed as playing games against ‘nature’ (meaning local The text is not readily available, but it seems [28] to contain
environmental conditions). As pointed out by Maynard the essential reasoning in MSP73. The manuscript was
Smith [18-20], it seems that Lewontin implicitly assumed reviewed by Maynard Smith and, although it was rejected
group or species selection in developing his theory. Partly for being too long for the journal (as described by Maynard
for this reason, the idea of viewing local adaptation as a Smith [20]), he was impressed by it. In fact, Maynard Smith’s
game populations play against ‘nature’ is no longer pursued first work on game theory of animal contests [18] started out
in biology. describing antler fights in deer, in a manner that appears to

As mentioned, Hamilton’s 1967 article [8] made funda- be inspired by Price’s manuscript (see also the description

mental contributions to the study of sex allocation, also in [20]).


Box 1. Evolutionary stability.

How do we expect natural selection to shape behavioural strategies when there is frequency dependence? In evolutionary
game theory, the basic approach is to seek stable endpoints of the evolutionary process, rather than following an evolutionary