‘emotional’ has been traditionally assumed to take place in To better understand principles of emotion recognition, itis = =
supramodal brain regions, downstream to early areas directly therefore of the utmost interest to characterize and isolate the 9 >
involved in the initial analysis of sensory input [8-10]. For initial computations and discriminations that the SC can __
example, recognition of smiling and laughter engages the preg- perform on facial expressions, based uniquely on the infor- = =
enual sectors of the anterior cingulate cortex [11,12]. Detection mation it directly receives from the retinal ganglion cells. Yet 5!
of danger and fearful expressions involves the amygdala, this evidence remains elusive owing to methodological limit- >
which also responds to other negative expressions such as sad- ations in animal neurophysiology and human neuroimaging. =
ness and anger [13-15]. According to this prevalent view, A promising new framework to explore these questions and = 8
enhanced activity in the visual cortex to affective stimuli has complement neurophysiological investigation is emerging =
often been interpreted as consequential, rather than integral, from the interaction between artificial intelligence and
to initial emotional appraisal [16]. Additionally, subcortical neuroscience [43-46]. Deep neural networks (DNNs) are com- s
structures receiving direct input from the retina, such as the putational models that potentially bridge the gap between =
superior colliculus (SC), the lateral geniculate nucleus or the cognitive functions and neurobiology. In fact, DNNs approxi- =
pulvinar (pulv), are traditionally conceptualized as passive mate how complex information-processing functions, such as
relay centres that transmit visual information, void of emotion- visual recognition and categorization, may be carried out by
al meaning, to the visual cortex or other ‘emotional’ structures biological neural networks. They consist of many processing
that conduct a value-based appraisal [17]. units akin to neurons, arranged in interconnected layers
Recent literature challenges this traditional account and analogous to brain areas, and with connections defined by
reveals a role for subcortical visual structures in more complex weights that mimic the integration and activation properties
analyses of retinal input than previously believed [18]. Specifi- of synapses [43,47-49]. DNNs learn through training to per-
cally, the SC, a laminated structure located astride the dorsal form real-world tasks that essentially consist of mapping
surface of the midbrain, seems endowed with the necessary input patterns (e.g. raw images) to output classifications (e.g.
infrastructure and computational capabilities for the innate rec- sorting natural images according to categories like faces,
ognition and initial categorization of emotionally salient objects and animals).
features from retinal information [19-22]. First, response selec- Current DNN models of the primary visual system attain