and not simply in target selection for saccade generation. of V1-damaged patients, who supposedly rely on the retino-
Moreover, several types of neurons in the superficial layers collicular system for stimulus encoding. Face categorization
of macaque’s SC respond very poorly to simple visual was significantly lower than the one displayed by healthy
stimuli and their activation requires real objects or certain observers, but still above chance and in the predicted accu-
two-dimensional patterns [126]. racy range, including a remarkable correspondence with
Among the manifold functions the SC contributes to, it human data in the error patterns and confusion across
seems to possess the necessary infrastructure to conduct a categories [38,109,110].
value-based appraisal of emotional signals and then mediate Second, tuning to LSF and orientation selectivity emerged
approach and avoidance behaviours accordingly. Characteriz- spontaneously in the model and were different from those
ing the SC’s computational properties before further analyses developed by established geniculo-striate networks presented
on incoming input occurs in other downstream structures is with the same gratings. The discrimination performances =
paramount to gain an evolutionary understanding of the were in accordance with psychophysical evidence in human >
visual brain. In fact, the functions and circuitry centred on blindsight patients and are plausibly generated by the neuro- Ss
the SC are well conserved throughout vertebrates, predate physiological properties that the primate SC derives from the = =:
the evolution of neocortex, and appear early during phyloge- prevalent M and K retinal input over the P pathway = 5!
netic as well as ontogenetic development. For example, the [26,38,40]. This suggests that initial phases of facial encoding ==
SC is present in reptiles, birds and mammals, its neurogenesis may not depend on the development of specialized cortical =
is complete at birth, and its connections laid down by the first areas but seem to capitalize on phylogenetically ancient  &
weeks of age [19,21,52]. However, its localization in the brain, visual structures already existing in new-born primates and eo]
dimensions, and the difficulty to ‘isolate’ it from the influence other lineages. S
of other brain areas have limited our knowledge of its compu- Third, the results on spontaneous tuning led to testing the
tational properties, especially in humans. In this context, a impact of different approaches to image manipulation that =
DNN imitating the neurobiological constraints of the retino- can bias face processing towards M and P channel properties. =
collicular system can swiftly provide a preliminary tool to per- DNN recognition of M-biased faces filtered to display only
form ‘in silico neurophysiology’ [127], thereby promoting a LSFs was not measurably altered compared to broad-band