duces the architecture and neurobiological constraints of the Clearly, the fact that our model of the retino-collicular
retino-collicular system has never, to our knowledge, been system seems capable of expression discrimination and pre-
devised yet. dicts several patterns of human and primate behaviours
The present study marks a first step towards the investi- does not mean that other brain areas are not crucial for
gation with artificial neural networks of salient facial emotional processing, or that the final encoding is not the
features based on expression perception carried out uniquely by-product of complex interaction at the system level [129].
by the retino-collicular system. When the field of inquiry is in The key issue is that the retino-collicular system can actively
its infancy, and the understanding of a biological phenom- instantiate early emotional evaluation and pass it on to these
enon is limited, as in the present case, the equivalence other brain structures, contrary to the prevailing view [16].
between DDNs and biological brains can be profitably under- Our circuit-level model of the retino-collicular system can
stood mainly in the context of the behavioural outcomes they be used to delve more deeply into understanding the devel-
produce. Noteworthy, several similarities to human behav- opment and organization of early visual processing for
iour and primate neurophysiology emerged spontaneously facial expressions and other stimulus categories. In fact, mod-
in our model, or arose simply as a consequence of the artifi- elling can be heuristically influential and provide traction for
cial network learning to perform the task, rather than the new empirical testing of V1-independent vision in human
modeller imposing parameters besides the neural architecture and non-human primates. For example, responses to uniform

and the objective goal [46,47]. image noise, or perturbations to stimulus attributes in the


neural network can be the testing ground for experiments in Data accessibility. The source code of the model, including scripts for
humans and monkeys to sample new functional properties of evaluation, is available as electronic supplementary material [131].
the SC. The network can be used to compute a maximally excit- Authors’ contributions. C.A.M.: conceptualization, data curation, formal

ing input image (MEI) that strongly activates specific layers or