summer regime, a high-stress novel environment. Additive including other stressors, although we sought to rear mosqui- 5!
genetic variance may increase in novel environments because toes under uniform conditions. Increased heat shock gene = >
of selection acting on the percentage of rare alleles in the flies’ expression was previously shown to improve survival follow- =
home environment [33]. ing heat stress for Hsp26 and Hsp83 in immature mosquito  &
Our finding of non-zero heritability (0.14 + 0.09, p = 0.02) stages and contribute to dehydration tolerance in adults for =
for thermal tolerance suggests that there is some potential flexi- Hsp70 [71]. The low expression of Hsp26 seen here across all >
bility in mosquito heat tolerance that may buffer the effects of treatment groups may reflect the specificity of the gene’s s
increasing temperatures predicted under climate change. expression in the larval stages. We predicted that families exhi- S
Populations exhibiting substantially larger levels of heritability biting greater thermal tolerance may also have higher gene = =
in thermal tolerance may be better able to respond via natural expression, given the protective effect of HSPs [44,46,63]. This
selection [30]. The low heritability in our study suggests prediction is consistent with a study in Ae. aegypti larvae
a greater impact of environmental or stochastic factors in deter- demonstrating an increase in Hsp expression post-exposure to
mining thermal sensitivity and KD time [11]. Our data suggest a thermal extreme and the fact that Hsp expression levels have
that given exposure to thermal extremes, our population been linked to species distributions across geographical clines
would not likely survive by ‘evolutionary rescue’ and would, [42,43]. Instead, we saw the opposite relationship, with higher
instead, go locally extinct. However, it is important to note expression in the families with reduced thermal tolerance.
that adaption to potentially lethal stress, expected in warming This pattern led us to suggest that other mechanisms of heat tol-
environments, will also depend on phenotypic variation erance may be more important for the insect in response to
within and between populations and additional patterns of increased temperatures and, interestingly, that increased
demographic stochasticity, genetic correlation and the rate of expression of the HSR in our extreme families may, instead,
environmental warming [34]. Constraints in organismal evol- be a signal of poor thermal adaptation.
vability for upper thermal limits will be affected by current Hsp expression has costs and benefits depending on the
use and overlap of climatic niches, where it has been suggested length and degree of elevated expression [72]. There are var-
that evolution in thermal tolerance for cold-adapted species ious lines of evidence examining the consequences of Hsp
may be more likely than for species whose niches are already expression, and in Drosophila, small to moderate increases in