
from different climates and compare their genetic variation into climate resiliency that might not be observed in traditional


cropping systems. For example, host evolutionary changes in Disease triangle: a conceptual model used to illustrate J

response to temperature and changes in disease pressure are that disease is an emergent property
possible in wild systems, and could provide insight for crop of the set of interactions between the
breeders dealing with these same challenges. In addition, environment, the host and the infec-
understanding how seasonal changes and demographic feed- tious (or in some cases abiotic)
backs drive epidemics in natural populations could also agent. This framing echoes the con-
inform planting strategies, such as timing of planting and cept denoted by GxGxE interactions.
crop rotations to maximize phenological mismatch for patho- GxGxE: a term capturing the fact that the
gens. In the past, observations that wild plant systems have expression of the disease may vary
richer genetic diversity than crop systems led to the develop- as a function of the genotype of the =>
ment of crop mixture strategies [64,89], an ecological solution host, the genotype of the pathogen = 5
that can substantially lower disease spread [90,91]. Just as and the environmental context. =
insights from plant pathology have expanded our knowledge Infectivity: the ability of a pathogen agent to S
of natural disease systems [16,92], observations from wild colonize and cause disease in a s
plant-pathogen systems may help guide disease management host, also referred to as ‘qualitative =
strategies as we chart our way through coping with a warming virulence’ (see below). =
planet. Qualitative virulence: in plant pathology, a pathogenic ©
Much remains to be done to increase our understanding of agent is described as ‘virulent’ =
plant pathogens. Bacteria and viruses are especially understu- when it can cause disease in a host =
died in wild plants because they are harder to detect, and the (and is described as ‘avirulent’ 3