(a) Longit dinal data for human immunodeficiency a patient across time points, both for SNP frequencies and SNP
abundances. This defines the first two entries of table 1: “HIV
virus and the immune repertoire turnover fr/ab’. Since these measures compute how much new
Our study is based on the dataset described in [32]. The samples mutations spread in the population from one time point to the
originate from 10 HIV-infected male participants. For each indi- other, they can be interpreted as the genetic turnover.
vidual we have 10-20 longitudinal samples, taken before In a similar way, these measures can also be applied to
administration of antiretroviral therapy. For most of the time the SNPs of Ig repertoire (entries ‘Ig turnover fr/ab’ of table 2).
points the viral genetic composition and the immune repertoire However, in that case, SNPs have to be computed at the level
are tracked in parallel, see electronic supplementary material, of lineages, obtaining trajectories for SNP i in lineage I, x;,;(f).
figure S1 and section S1 for more information. Specifically, on Note that for ‘Ig turnover fr’, the frequency is normalized by
the viral side, the C2-V3 region of the env gene is deeply the number of sequences in the lineage, so that }>,<; xj )(t) = 1.
sequenced. This gene is known to be a potential target of the The absolute turnover then sums across all SNPs and lineages.
antibody repertoire [33,34]. On the immune repertoire side, the To quantify the fact that B-cell lineages themselves are subject
samples correspond to the deep sequencing of the variable to turnover, and rise and fall in time, we introduce a measure that
region of the immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain locus. We computes the absolute change of lineage sizes. The size of a
omitted patient 10 because of lack of HIV samples, as shown lineage is the sum of all its sequence abundances or frequencies
in electronic supplementary material, section S1. (here normalized by their total counts in the sample, so that
We wrote a pipeline to download the dataset, assemble the x(t) =). Applying the formula for absolute change,
HIV sequences and the immunoglobulin heavy chain clonotypes. equation (2.1), to these quantities defines the Ig lineage turnover
The description of our pipeline is in electronic supplementary frjab measures in table 2. We define two additional measures
material, section S2. The public repository https://github.com/ derived from the Ig lineage turnover abundances: one that
statbiophys/HIV‘coevo.git contains all the scripts and the includes only the top 10% changes in abundances in the compu-
instructions necessary for running the pipeline and reproducing tation of the absolute change (Ig lineage large turnover), and one
our results. The obtained dataset is composed of HIV samples with only the bottom 50% (Ig lineage small turnover). In general
having an average number of 1000 unique sequences and we expect that smaller absolute changes are more subject to