to low doses of rifampicin and other antibiotics than waaP-car- cin resistance in minimal media, which is consistent
rying genotypes. Our observed pattern of epistasis implies that with Lin et al. [70] and could be attributed to ABR rpoB
this sensitivity is masked when the genotype carries a resist- mutations mimicking the stringent response [56]. There was
ance mutation. Thus, the G x G interaction of waaP and rpoB a modest positive effect of high temperatures on the competi-
erases selection against AwaaP mutations that would occur at tive fitness of all genotypes and a weak Ex E interaction
low doses of rifampicin. between temperature and antibiotic. However, contrary to

previous studies that also used batch cultures with glucose
and minimal medium [7,36], the rpoB mutations S512F and

(b) Measurement challenges of gene-by-gene 1572S did not grow better and H526Y did not grow worse

interactions than the wild type at higher temperatures. (In fact, H526Y
One methodological challenge for detecting G x G interactions was observed to grow better than the wild type at 42°C.)
in our study was that, in the presence of antibiotics, the fitness The discrepancy for 1572S could be attributed to Gx Gx E
effects of the ABR mutants quickly overshadowed those of the with the genetic background: Rodriguez-Verdugo et al. [36]
knock-outs. In this case, methods that involve a relative com- found a strong effect of E. coli genetic background on the fit-
parison of direct fitness effects to epistatic effects are bound ness at site 1572. On the other hand, the discrepancies for
to infer less epistasis when there are stronger direct effects. $512F and H526Y could be that, unlike in Trindade et al.
The negative correlation of the roughness-to-slope ratio as a [7], our batch cultures were not acclimatized to the environ-
function of antibiotic concentration could be explained by ment in which the competitions occurred. This underscores
this phenomenon: we observed mostly neutral fitness effects the sensitivity of organisms to their environments and the
and moderate epistasis in the absence of the antibiotic but importance of complete reporting of experimental methods.
large beneficial fitness effects and no epistasis in the presence We used the overall environmental quality as a regressor to
of the antibiotic. However, the negative correlation between quantify the interaction between epistasis and environment,