evolution of community-level properties. More direct evi-
dence for such repeatability comes from studies of adaptive
radiations and from studies of co-evolving species pairs.

of evolutionary parallelism and convergence. However, (i) Adaptive radiations

repeatability presupposes that the initial character states are A canonical case of adaptive radiation involves a single foun-
identical, whereas convergence implies that they are distinct der species that colonizes multiple neighbouring islands or
(and become more similar during evolution). Parallel evol- lakes [69]. These quasi-replicate founder populations sub-
ution occurs when the character states become neither more sequently diversify into communities of interacting (usually
nor less similar over time, whether or not they were initially competing) species. The fact that the communities are
identical [8]. Thus, the notion of repeatability is more closely initially identical (consisting of a single founder species)
related to the idea of parallel evolution when the initial states and the fact that they evolve on neighbouring but largely
are identical, but there are some distinctions. For example, isolated habitats with similar environments is important
parallel evolution implies a change in the character state. By because it allows researchers to witness how quasi-replicate
contrast, a consistent absence of change across replicates ecological communities are assembled by adaptive evolution
(e.g. due to stabilizing selection) is a valid instance of repeat- and diversification. In many well-characterized cases, quasi-
ability. Another distinction is that parallelism is an attribute of replicate communities evolve to similarly partition the
a pair of populations/communities. By contrast, we envision morphological and ecological trait space, a community-level
repeatability as a property of an infinitely large ensemble of property. More precisely, these communities undergo parallel
replicates (figure 1b,c). For example, one way to quantify par- diversification into several ‘ecomorphs’, each of which has
allelism is by calculating the angle between the evolutionary stereotypical morphological, dietary and behavioural traits
vectors of two replicates [8]. The corresponding aspect of and occupies a distinct ecological niche. Examples of parallel

repeatability would then be characterized by the distribution ecomorph evolution include the evolution of large- and