declined and diameter increased as the proportion of old present at this lower end of the age distribution, but are less = &
individuals increased, while transitivity exhibited no strong strong, or negligible, for some network measures. Hence,
relationship to age distribution. Interestingly, these effects detecting an effect in real systems could necessitate large
did not necessarily scale in the linear manner that might be amounts of data. We note, however, that the effect on the net-
expected in response to a linear increase in proportion of work measures (the shapes of the curves) will depend both
old individuals in the network. Network diameter showed on how sociality changes with age and the social organization
a steeper increase as networks became older, suggesting of the system (such as relatedness patterns). While other sys-
that the strength of the effect, and thereby the ability to stat- tems may be similar in these regards to the one investigated
istically detect an effect in a real-world case, might depend on here, making predictions for detectability of social ageing
where along the continuum of age distributions one’s data effects in general would require more comprehensive
lie. The combination of this and a limited sample size could modelling.
potentially have led to the null result in our empirical analy- Future work in other systems, conditions and contexts
sis. This interpretation is supported by the fact that when we could reveal consequences of age-based changes in sociality
limited the age variation and sample size (number of net- for network structure that are even more stark. For example,
works) of our model to match that of the empirical data greater differences between age classes in the overall prob-
(i.e. we only ran the model for 19 simulations and allowed ability of forming a social tie may be expected in societies
the proportion of old individuals in the network to range that experience selective disappearance of the mostsociable
between 0.4 and 0.20) there was no clear relationship between individuals or where declines in sociality with age are exacer-
the proportion of old individuals and network structure. bated by partners dying and not being replaced (which we
The results of our model suggest that populations made do not observe in this system [6]). The kin structure of popu-
up of very large numbers of young, or old, individuals may lations is also likely to be important if the probability of
have detectable levels of divergence in network structure, connecting decreases with age but there is no compensatory
whereas populations within a smaller range of age distri- increase in the probability of forming ties with kin. This
butions may not. Sample size also appears to have played could lead to stronger absolute effects on global network
an important role in our ability to detect an effect of network metrics, including substantial changes in transitivity, and