to forage for patchy, depletable resources can progressively This ‘specialization test’ among members might also help = =
and spontaneously segregate over the landscape in distinct highlight a further distinction between ‘learning about =
home ranges [76]. This occurs with no rules for social inter- others’ (§3b) and ‘learning to complement others’ (this sub-
actions (nothing happens when two individuals meet, by section). In the case of vampire bats discussed in §3b, it can =
chance), and no rules for territorial behaviour (no marking be argued that members learn to complement each other. — 5!
or defence of borders). Spatial segregation occurs simply Indeed, when one member has poor foraging success, the = >
because individuals are not reinforced when encountering a others compensate for it; hence, the gain at the collective =
patch already depleted by another individual [76]. In turn, level is through the consensus function and not necessarily 3
at the collective level this allows the population as a whole through individual improvement. As we saw in the previous =
to exploit a progressively larger share of the landscape’s section, it also occurs through learning about each other (ie. = 3
resources and to reach higher abundance (i.e. an increase in the case fits both categories 2 and 3). Yet in the vampire bat s
carrying capacity), corresponding to a case of collective case we would not necessarily predict a progressive specializ-
learning [27]. In this case, individuals also benefit from the ation of individuals into different roles. In fact, across trials, Ss
situation, as they escape competition and improve their individuals should have roughly symmetrical contributions
individual consumption rate (ie. this case could fit both in terms of feeding others or being fed by others: reciprocity
categories and 3 when considering individual- and seems a requisite to establish and maintain trust relationships
collective-level foraging success) [27]. However, the limits of [53]. As another key distinguishing prediction, if for any
their home ranges are arbitrary and there are no intrinsic reason one member suddenly changes its behaviour (or disap-
differences between the different home ranges. In other pears) during a trial T compared to previous trials, if other
words, individuals did not learn to exploit more productive members had learnt about this specific individual (§3b), they
parts of the landscape; instead, they learnt to better divide should immediately adjust their own behaviour in the same
it among them, without direct interactions. trial T (since the cue to which their behaviour responds has

So far, we have restricted examples to modelling simu- changed). However, if members had learnt to complement
lations. The sets of models explaining spatial segregation each other without learning about the others (this sub-section’s