been linking social network properties (size, modularity, etc.) based on ‘learning about others’, or based on ‘learning
to rates of information transfer (social learning) between indi- to complement others’, could be highly sensitive to group
viduals and to the efficiency of information pooling at the disruptions. These two categories of mechanisms create inter-
collective level (e.g. [97,98]). It is thus likely that not all social dependencies between group members, so that their collective
structures will favour the efficient integration of members’ performance relies on members remaining together, although
newly acquired knowledge into collective decisions. Within in large groups, redundancy of social roles among individuals
non-human animal groups, empirical work suggests that col- might partly alleviate this effect. Our short summary of poten-
lective decision-making processes and/or social networks tial challenges to collective learning (§4a) also suggested that in
can vary extensively with species, populations and/or environ- many cases being part of a collective might slow down the
mental or social contexts within populations (e.g. see the case learning rate of groups compared to lone individuals. Long-
of travelling baboon troops [99-101]). It is thus possible that term group stability could thus be of paramount importance
the distribution of collective learning capacities in animal to learn about others and/or to learn to complement others.
groups would best be predicted by social organization rather In fact, even in homing pigeons where collective learning of
than cognitive capacities. The question of efficiently integrating navigational routes seemed not to involve such inter-depen-
members’ knowledge at the collective level also has a long his- dencies, social disruptions caused large drops in collective
tory of research in various human sciences (e.g. [102-106]), but performance which took several trials to recover to (and
it is largely beyond our expertise to assess to what extent eventually overtake) pre-disruption levels [13].
the methods and/or conclusions therein could transfer to Based on these considerations about sensitivity to social

non-human animals. disruptions, one could hypothesize that ‘learning about


others’ and ‘learning to complement others’ should primarily
be observed in phylogenetic lineages with a long history of
high group stability. Yet things might not be so simple: the