vers have to choose which signals to pay attention to, and gestures are used in back-and-forth interactions. Amici &
interpret the signal based on contextual cues including the Liebal [33] focus on how the complexity and effectiveness of
identity of the signaller (e.g. age and sex), the nature of gestural communication is associated with individual and
the signal (e.g. type of vocalization or gesture) and the dyadic sociality across chimpanzees, orangutans and _ sia-
wider social context (e.g. other primates in close proximity) mangs. They find that dyads that have stronger social bonds
[8,10,11,19,21]. The aim of this special issue is to examine use a larger number of gesture types and that all species flex-
the types of cognitive skills underpinning the flexible and ibly adjust their communication according to the attention
complex communication that is used to maintain the of the recipient, supporting the link between social and
bonded social relationships found in primates and humans. communicative complexity across both great and lesser apes.
The first two papers of this issue describe the key cognitive Roberts & Roberts [34] examine flexibility in gestural com-
mechanisms underpinning the processing of social information munication in wild chimpanzees, demonstrating signallers
in primates and how these are related to social and ecological used intentional gestures more frequently to recipients
factors. Roberts et al. [25] highlight the fact that the chronic who are stressed and these gestures are more likely to evoke
and acute stresses caused by group living have a detrimental approach behaviour by the recipients. This suggests an
effect on the very cognitive skills needed to process information important role of intentional communication in facilitating
about social bonds and goal-directed communication. Inten- coordination of behaviour and the understanding of intentions
tional communication may play an important role in between signallers and recipients in conditions of stress, such
enhancing cognitive processing in recipients when exposed to as the presence of a dominant bystander. Finally, Damjanovic
stressors by upregulating the dopamine system. Shultz & et al. [35] show that gestural communication, but not vocal or
Dunbar [26] use a meta-analysis to identify separate cognitive bimodal communication, is associated with a larger social net-

and energetic factors associated with brain size in primates, work size in wild chimpanzees and that, with weak social


bonds, gestures accompanied by response waiting were more social situations and how this may be associated with