need to be both intraspecifically gregarious and conspicuous, have explicitly examined the link between some species trait
or nuclear species need to be gregarious, or nuclear species and nuclearity (e.g. intraspecific gregariousness: [17]; vocal
need to be conspicuous. characteristics: [65]; cooperative breeding: [3]; wing-flash pat-

In addition to these three specific errors, we found two tern: [8]). Moreover, to our knowledge, Botero [8] is the only
general categories of errors: 1. In attributing to Moynihan a list study to have experimentally examined the link between a
of traits associated with nuclearity, 18/100 segments either morphological trait—wing flash pattern—and nuclearity. It is
made exclusion (leaving out traits that Moynihan linked to therefore surprising and telling that Botero [8] has received
nuclearity) or inclusion (including traits that Moynihan did only one citation within referenced statements included in
not associate with nuclearity) errors; 2. A miscellaneous set our database. In the case of species roles, we discuss below
(n=19/100) that included a variety of errors unrelated to how roles in “flock formation” and/or “flock cohesion” are
the categories described above but too few to categorize often attributed to nuclear species without empirical demon-
individually (electronic supplementary material, table $3). stration or even clear definitions of these terms. In fact, from

our experience of watching mixed-flocks in the field, several
of these ideas are very challenging to test in the field but
. : seem to have an understood and assumed meaning within
4. Discussion the mixed-species literature and continue to be commonly
(a) Overall patterns used. In summary, we believe it is fair to say that our current
. . . . understanding of nuclearity is nascent and the dominant
This study was motivated by our impression that referenced . an : .
“oe ideas undergirding this concept still need to be treated as
statements on nuclearity in flocks seem to have coalesced h P
. ypotheses and not as established facts.
around a small number of ideas, supported by a small set