typically remain alive during this phase of high soil moisture. nected to a system of mostly horizontal tunnels that enable
In a year with high amounts of rainfall like 2011 (figure 2b), the termites to move between the moist soil environment
the soil beneath the matrix vegetation is still moist enough beneath the bare patch of the fairy circle and the dry environ-
to allow continuous growth of the grasses for several ment, around the foraging nest ([10,14] fig. 5.7).
months. In years with less rainfall, only one to two months Psammotermes does not store larger amounts of food in
may elapse before the matrix soil is too dry to support underground chambers, but instead relies on regular harvest
actively growing grasses (for example June 2012, figure 2b). of material from the standing biomass in the matrix [14].
However, the grass in the matrix becomes dormant and Most of the foraging nests are used only for a couple of
remains able to re-sprout if rain recurs within a couple of weeks or months and are abandoned once most of the
weeks or months. Without additional precipitation, though, biomass of the tussock has been consumed.
the grasses will die, but the dry remains will persist. As Coaton & Sheasby [54] noted, the permanent nests are

The enhanced growth of tall grass tussocks within the less often found. This may partly be due to the fact that the
perennial belt (fairy ring, luxury belt) is interpreted as a con- foraging nests within grass tussocks are often elevated 1-
sequence of their privileged access to the water accumulation 3.cm above the soil surface, but the upper parts of the older
beneath the bare patch and the unidirectional suppression of permanent nests are frequently eroded due to exposure at
competition, both caused by the termites and their behaviour the surface. Jiirgens [14] found permanent nests at the peren-

14]. In response to years with higher precipitation up to four nial belt and in the central area of the bare patch and
additional perennial belts can be formed around bare patches proposes that few of the foraging nests are developed further
with smaller diameters [10]. and become permanent nests at a later stage in their life his-

It is difficult to assess in detail the subterranean spatial tory. Partial excavation of two neighbouring fairy circles
distribution of the presence of the sand termite colony (figure 4) revealed several permanent nests in the central
beneath a fairy circle. Excavations of the tunnel system are area and near the half radius within the bare patch. This is