nests—in a variety of configurations on the ground, in cav- for most of the species. For example, in a recent study of nest
ities, on rocks or banks, on branches or hanging—evolving architecture in more than 3000 passerine species, shifts to cup
across the phylogenetic tree. Overall, we detected a strong nesting were associated with decreased investment (i.e. time)
phylogenetic signal in nest type (cup versus dome) in nest building and with increased range sizes and broader
(figure 2), suggesting that shifts in nest type are relatively thermal niches [7]. Moreover, flight ability and beak dimen-
rare, particularly in the cotingas and manakins. The ancestral sions are more likely to be primary drivers of variation in

Tyrannida species probably built a cup nest and lived in dispersal ability and diet, respectively [77,98], potentially


eclipsing any secondary effect they might have on nest con- material, S2) and cliff flycatcher is intriguing; the scarcity | 10 |

struction. In fact, the sharpbill has an elongated and refined of such shifts makes it statistically difficult to test for
beak and builds cups, contrary to our proposed prediction associations between these transitions and external factors. 3
(table 1). While it is certainly plausible that a more detailed Our ancestral reconstruction of habitats accords with pre- z
analysis could reveal new relationships, the most likely con- vious findings about the ecological radiation (i.e. expansion 3
clusion is that in Tyrannida, phylogenetic history explains a of habitat and foraging behaviour) of Tyrannida [35]. Initial “S
great deal of variation in nest type. Furthermore, one conse- divergences between Cotingidae, Pipridae and Tyrannidae =
quence of the strong phylogenetic signal in nest type is that and allies occurred in closed habitats during the Oligocene. S
many of our comparative tests also had low statistical power. Then, subsequent radiation events occurred in semi-open = ©
Thus, an important caveat is that even though we did not and open habitats, promoting large-scale diversification in =
detect a significant association between nest type and a variety the following Tyrannidae subclades: Elaeniines, Myiarchines, 5
of relevant ecological, life-history and environmental traits, Tyrannines and Fluvicolines (sensu [34]). Within these subfa- © =
these variables may nonetheless be predictive on a larger taxo- milies, we observed intriguing patterns in nest architecture >
nomic scale. Overall, in Tyrannida, many selective forces evolution (figure 2). These include: high variation in cup Ss