7. Benefits afforded to termites by heuweltjies for localized soil enrichment that promotes development of
In addition to how positioning of the central hive of M. viator patches of denser vegetation, subsequent aeolian deposition
deep within the soil mass of a heuweltjie probably provides and formation of a heuweltjie represent an incidental
greater protection from burrowing predators, the mounds environmental response, one step removed from the direct
likely provide other benefits. Turner [15] claimed that more impacts of the termites on soil nutrient content, rather than
favourable soil moisture conditions within heuweltjies are an extended phenotype of M. viator.

the main factor leading to continued occupancy of the struc- The only structures associated with nests of M. viator that
tures, and those more favourable conditions are due to soil can justifiably be regarded as extended phenotypes are the
modifications created primarily by the excavating activities spheroidal hives and indurated conical mounds (figure 2).
of termites. Evidence does exist for the more equable soil Both are phenotypic characters expressed outside the collective
moisture conditions of heuweltjies: soils of heuweltjies more body of the termite colony through direct construction of arte-
readily absorb precipitation than those of surrounding areas facts by the termites. The spheroidal hives represent a
[63], and soil water contents in heuweltjies are generally universally expressed extended phenotype of M. viator, regard-

higher and persist longer than in surrounding soils [64,65]. less of whether a colony resides in a heuweltjie, beneath the base


of a small, conical mound or deeply positioned within the soil. Other termite species exert comparable influences [9-14]. | 10 |

However, creation of the conical mounds is a behavioural Similarly, other communal nesting organisms, through

manifestation that depends on the environmental context. environmental alterations they create directly or set in S
Environmental context-dependent expressions of nest construc- motion, have the capacity to profoundly influence local biodi- z
tion behaviour also occur in other termite species [2,3,66], ants versity. For example, sociable weavers (Philtairus socius) of S