the flowing water treatment might be attributed to the display weaker preferences for specific nesting locations
exposure to constant flow during the energetically demand- [44]. Here, we expected that males nesting in flowing water
ing nest building phase. By contrast to previous studies [44] would prefer to nest away from the water inflow (where
that used artificial rocks to generate low-flow areas, we the water current may be more turbulent) and on gravel sub-
aimed to minimize heterogeneity in water current under strates which may be less likely to wash away. Further, if
flowing water. Despite the strong effects of ambient water males from rivers are better able to adjust their behaviour
flow on nest building and nest structure, however, we in response to water flow variation, we predicted to see this
found very little evidence for divergence in these traits response for river males but not lake males. By contrast to
between river and lake populations. The only nesting vari- our expectation, we found no effect of water flow treatments
able measured that differed between males from rivers and on the distribution of nests within the nesting channel. We
lakes was where they built their nest; lake males were more did however, find an unexpected effect of habitat of origin,
likely to nest away from the inflow area, whereas the nests with males from lakes being more likely to build nests in
of river males were randomly distributed throughout the the zone furthest from the inflow. The fact that lake males

nesting channel. Habitat of origin was also associated with were more likely to build nests farthest from the inflow in


both still and flowing water makes this result difficult to [100-102], but we were unable to differentiate between

explain. One potential explanation that is unrelated to the these mechanisms using wild-caught individuals in this
water flow treatment is that males were choosing nesting study. Conducting common garden experiments across gen-
locations based on substrate type. However, this also seems erations exposed to similar flow environments could help to
unlikely given that lake males have previously been shown disentangle the potential roles of evolutionary divergence
to prefer sandy substrates for nesting [68] and the lake and phenotypic plasticity (e.g. [103]). Nevertheless, we
males here, built their nests predominantly in only one of found no interaction between habitat type and flow treat-