

among intracellular functions and intercellular communication centres within the CNS brain of its needs for blood flow and

in the node withina given AP cycle, some AP intervals turn out pressure via sensory input from visual, olfactory and auditory
to be shorter and others longer than the mean rate that the signals that converge within the superchiasmatic nucleus, as
system is aiming for based on the body’s need for blood flow well as mechanical and chemical signals arising within the
in the physiological context (sleeping, lying down, standing, heart and blood vessels. These signals are relayed from the
walking, mental or physical strain, etc.). brain stem/spinal cord, which initiate reflex neuronal inputs
Paradoxically, although its activity resonates about a that are conducted via the ICG to the SAN autonomic plexus,
specific mean firing interval, the SAN is unaware of the which surrounds and embraces the ‘neuronal-like’ HCN4*
specific mean it achieves within a time series, which is, in cells within the heart’s SAN brain. This neurotransmitter
fact, a post hoc calculation made by an external observer. input modulates the same molecular functions that regulate ==>
Thus, pacemaker cells, whether isolated or embedded in the intrinsic pacemaker clocks within single SAN cells in the 5
SAN tissue, are programmed to create a specific mean AP absence of autonomic input. =
firing rate that does not exist on a beat-to-beat basis. Instead, The intrinsic cellular ‘machinery’ of pacemaker cells (ie. the >
the beat-to-beat decisions taken by pacemaker cells based on coupled-clock system) is equipped to rapidly decode auto- — __
their intracellular phosphorylation states and intercellular nomic input signals and compute the required transfer = =
communication can be best observed in the running mean of functions within its clock molecules to alter the clock system = 5!
a beat time series. The running mean shows how the cell output, ensuring that timing of the subsequent impulses it gen- >
adjusts its near-term future intervals to hover about the erates match autonomic instructions. Autonomic input can be =
mean prescribed by the physiological context. received and implemented on a beat-to-beat basis, but can = &
The degree to which electrochemical signals within and also be applied over the course of several beats [27]. The =
among SAN pacemaker cells become synchronized over the adjusted impulses are then transmitted in parallel at millise- 3
course of multiple beats influences the variability in inter-AP cond to second time scales from the SAN to at least three s