dance and with function, underlining the necessity of ening of BEF relationships with increasing 7, we would argue
accounting for the role of total abundance in BEF research that Hill ‘diversities’ with large positive scaling parameters
[59]. However, Hill diversities in the evenness emphasis were simply abundance metrics masquerading as measures of
range deviated from this pattern, instead exhibiting often diversity. Instead, we found, across a variety of regions, taxa,
strong, countervailing relationships with abundance and _ per and ecosystem functions, that intermediate, positive 7 values
capita function (figure 4). This fits with previous BEF literature, in the ‘rare emphasis’ range tended to produce the strongest
which anticipates a variety of mechanisms linking evenness BEF relationships (figure 3). All Hill diversities with positive 7
and ecosystem function, without a clear prediction for when values (including richness) tend to increase with both abun-
the net result is positive or negative [60-63]. dance and richness, which we argue can be a useful property,

The relationship between diversity and per capita function especially for BEF research. Because the goal of summarizing
differed from the diversity-abundance relationship, with cor- species’ abundances with diversity metrics is to distill complex,
relation coefficients for per capita function generally multi-variate information [17], this claim is not radical. In fact,
decreasing with increases in 7, but often showing a positive Hill diversities that emphasize rare species more than richness
peak in the evenness emphasis range (figure 4). Positive does can reflect intuitive notions of diversity, which include
species interactions, including those that increase per capita both high density and high compositional variation [75]. Our
function, are expected to explain total function [51,64,65]. study points to the need for further theoretical work to explicate
Our results partly support these expectations, as Hill diversi- the meaning of these seldom-used Hill diversities in the rare
ties in the evenness emphasis range, which should track the emphasis range, and their linkages to ecosystem function.
probability of interspecific encounter, were positively associ- By considering Hill diversities over a wide range of 7, we
ated with per capita function, even as they tended to be place ourselves at odds with the convention that Hill diversi-
negatively associated with abundance. As we increased 7, ties should be considered only when 7 < 1 [6,16,17,48,76]. The
the correlation between Hill diversity and per capita function most compelling argument for that restricted range of scaling
disappeared near richness (?=1), also pushing against parameters is presented by Patil and Taillie [17], who argued
expectations that richness best captures function-relevant that diversity should not decrease when abundance is shifted