vary between different: limits, a correction has to be applied to the probable e1 01
This is done by subtracting from it the probable error of the several mean body length
in each group, or what is practically the same thing, the mean error divided by 1°18:
The numbers thus calculated and subtracted are given in the seventh column of fi
table. As, however, on an average any single observation of the body length differ
from the median by the probable error, a series of fifty observations would differ }
Q/50, hence this amount must be subtracted from the above correction. The numbe
thus subtracted, or what comes to the same thing, added to the value of Q found, ar
also given in the seventh column. In the next column of the table the correcte
values of Q are given, and in the next the relation of these values to the arithmetic:
mean body length. The rest of the table gives the observed coefficients at
different grades. These coefficients in all cases agree fairly well with the theoretic
and their mean values approximate very closely to them. They are, in fact, in seve
cases identical, whilst with the exception of the value at grade 5°, they none of the
differ by more than ‘02. When we remember the variable conditions under which
larvee measured in these groups were allowed to develop, it is rather to be wondere’
that the variations in the coefficients are so small. There is thus no reason to doub
that whatever variations are produced in the average size of the larvee by changes 0
environmental conditions, the frequency of the deviations in the size from the averag
always corresponds with that indicated by the theoretical law of error.
As the mean size of the larve in the various groups varies from 27°18 to 35°66, 01
by 31 per cent., the probable error would also be expected to show a certain amoun
of change. The mean corrected probable error of the first six groups of measurement
in the table is 1°83, of the next six 1°99, and of the next 1:96. The mean relation 0
probable error to body length in the three groups of six determinations each is “06 0,