vides an estimate of the uncertainty across different regional [34]. Climate change will make the management of these
downscaling models and methods. We find that the projected species more challenging and is likely to threaten the sustain-
impacts of climate change on the groundfish community are ability of some fisheries [84]. Estimated species’ sensitivity to
more sensitive to the differences in the regional ocean models climate change is a key knowledge gap in current groundfish
than they are to the emissions scenarios used. However, these stock assessments in this region. While changes in biomass
differences are in magnitude (changes tend to be larger based are likely to differ from the changes in occurrence that we
on NEP36 compared with the BCCM) rather than in direc- have projected here [22], we expect occurrence changes to
tion, with both models resulting in similar overall patterns be informative of the sensitivity of species to climate
of biodiversity change and turnover for the groundfish com- change. Thus, our results can be used to integrate climate
munity. Over the 60-year time period (1986-2005 versus change risk into stock assessments and ecosystem-based fish-
2046-2065) used in our study, our projections suggest that eries management in this region [84,85]. For many species,
groundfish community changes are similar regardless of the this may require accounting for climate-driven shifts in
scenario used. This is not surprising given the fact that the species distributions and biomass across international
two emissions scenarios do not appreciably differ until later boundaries [86].
in the 21st century [53]. Ideally, we would also quantify With this analysis, we have demonstrated how spatially
uncertainty due to differences between global climate extensive scientific survey data can be combined with high-
models and use the ensembles from each of the models resolution regional ocean models to provide projections of
(e.g. [17,75]); however, regional models driven by other groundfish community changes at a scale that is relevant to
global models have not yet been developed for this area. developing spatial management strategies to preserve
We expect that projections based on different global climate marine biodiversity and sustainable fisheries. Furthermore,
models would show greater variation than we see between we have demonstrated that our overall projected patterns of
our regional ocean models, but they would produce biodiversity change are consistent regardless of the level of
similar overall patterns in projected groundfish community emissions, and across the two different regional ocean
change unless they project vastly different temperature and models that are available for our region. However, had we
oxygen changes. chosen a more distant future time period, the sensitivity to