repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation increased intake suggest that higher BMI is associated with lower performance
of palatable food via stimulation-inductions reductions in on tasks assessing working memory, inhibitory control and
inhibitory control [3]. delay discounting [22-25]. Similar associations have been
Although inhibition of automatic responses applies to reported for children and adolescents [26] with the strongest
some aspects of dietary decision making, it does not capture evidence supporting an association between poor inhibitory
the full complexity of the choices that we make about control and higher BMI [27,28]. There have been fewer
whether, what, when, where and how much to eat. Consider studies that have assessed the relationship between obesity
the following: you decide to get a coffee with a friend and and episodic memory function, but most have reported a
your friend takes a cake with their drink. In this situation negative association [29]. Cheke et al. [30] examined perform-
you may forgo having the cake, not because you are resisting ance on a computerized episodic memory task that required
a temptation, but because in that moment the cake is not an participants to ‘hide’ items around a complex scene and then
attractive option. There may be several factors that weigh into recall the identity, location and timing of when an item was
this decision such as the fact that you have not long had your hidden. Participants with obesity performed less well on
lunch, the cake is expensive, and it is not your favourite spatial, temporal and item memory and made more errors
flavour. This kind of situation is better accounted for by when combining these elements into a ‘what-where-when’
value-based choice models of self-control which suggest memory. Other aspects of task performance were unaffected
that deciding between two options (e.g. take cake or not (e.g. reaction time), which is consistent with the suggestion
take cake) involves a cost benefit evaluation of the attributes that obesity is associated with reduced higher cognitive func-
and consequences of enacting each choice, with the most tion specifically rather than a general decline in ability to
valuable action in that moment wining out [13]. Importantly, perform a task [31]. Higher BMI in children has also been
in the case of eating-related decisions, this kind of framework associated with poorer performance on a spatial episodic
provides one account of how nutritional state can influence memory task [32]. The association between obesity and cog-

consumption behaviours, since homeostatic signals can be nitive function has further been reported to be robust to
