a restoration of insulin sensitivity in offspring [64], and a pre- methyl donors

vention of cardiac hypertrophy in offspring [65]. Others have An imbalance in the generation of reactive oxygen species
similarly shown improvements in glucose tolerance, insulin and the antioxidant capacity of an organism is a known
levels and adiposity in male [66] and female offspring [67] consequence of a sub-optimal early nutritional environment.
of obese-exercised mothers compared to obese-sedentary Therefore, reducing cellular oxidative stress is one approach
mothers. Maternal exercise can also potentially overcome that has been adopted to prevent the detrimental effects
some of the long-term programming effects of maternal of intra-uterine programming. In non-human primates
obesity on the offspring brain, by altering diet preferences, (NHP) and rodent models, administration of the anti-oxidant
central reward system signalling [68] and hypothalamic drug Resveratrol to mothers with obesity during pregnancy
gene expression [69]. The differences in successful outcomes improves maternal fasting insulin levels and decreases maternal
of lifestyle-based interventions in humans and_ rodent fat mass, in addition to resolving fetal fatty liver, reducing off-
models may stem from the fact that human adherence to spring adiposity and improving leptin sensitivity and brown
any lifestyle intervention is challenging. This is particularly adipose tissue function [78,79]. Other studies in humans
true in pregnancy when mothers may be affected by nausea and rodents have targeted the reported methylation changes
and fatigue and therefore reluctant or unable to increase in offspring by supplementing the maternal diet with methyl
physical activity or modify diet. In addition, in human donors, and have effectively shown changes in methylation
trials most interventions don’t start until the second trimester patterns [80].

when many pregnant women have their first contact with The studies described above focus on interventions during
health professionals (for example, the women recruited for pregnancy to target fetal development. However, as discussed
UPBEAT were between 15-19 weeks of gestation at enrolment above, intervention to the offspring themselves is useful when
in the programme), by which time some programming may intervention during pregnancy is not possible. Data from our
have already occurred and impacted offspring outcomes. laboratory, using the maternal low protein rat model, has
