issue. The composition of the diet, independent of energy ken premises in many obesity research questions or statements.
intake or how the diet is consumed (e.g. the time of day it is
consumed, whether it is eaten hot or cold) could all affect nutri- 1. When a person says they are addressing the X model of
ent partitioning, where by nutrient partitioning we mean obesity, it implies that there is a thing called the X
in what tissues or bodily components any body energy is model of obesity that the scientific community, in general,
stored. For the same amount of stored body energy or understands (or should understand) to mean the model
increased stored body energy, a greater or lesser amount that the author is putting forth. This is in contrast with
could be stored in body fat depending on other factors, the author putting forth the idea that this is an X model
which may include the composition of the diet or the way in of obesity (as opposed to the X model of obesity). This
which the diet is consumed. This therefore allows the possi- would allow the implication that there are other ways to
bility that elements of diet composition, including but not conceive this model and that perhaps other parties
limited to the proportion of the energy intake that is carbo- involved in the dialogue or intellectual opponents in con-
hydrate, can affect body fatness without in any way violating sideration of various models might in fact not accept that
the energy balance equation (i.e. the constraint under which the model put forth does indeed merit its appellation as
all causal models must be considered to hold if we are to the X model of obesity.
respect the ideas of consilience as described below). 2. When someone states that they are studying the X model of
Additionally, the constraint or energy balance equation obesity, it is not clear what this is a model of. To say it is
portrayed above does not include a time element. If we modelling obesity does not make clear whether it is model-
reexpressed the equation to involve delta energy in minus ling the causal effect of X on weight change in individuals
delta energy out equals delta energy stores, where delta over time, the cause of the obesity pandemic or more gener-
implies change over some period of time, then we have a ally secular changes in obesity, the degree to which the
richer conception. Now, we can ask how composition of purportedly independent or ‘exogenous’ variables in
the diet consumed—independent of energy consumed, the X model have contributed to variance in individuals’
or the manner in which the diet is consumed—could affect adiposity levels within the population (which is highly
subsequent elements of energy balance. For example, eating dependent not only on there being causal effects of those