of food, did not smoke, did not drink alcohol, were prohibited ciently large in comparison to other variation between groups ~~
from mating, were raised in the same kinds of housing (cages), (or in comparison to similar studies investigating other treat- S
had the same light-dark cycles, etc. And yet, completely ments in similar populations, diseases, etc.), that other &
opposite findings were observed in the association element possible confounding biases cannot be thought to be respon-
versus the randomized experimental element. In the random- sible. For example, few would argue that cigarette smoking
ized experimental element, the causal effect of being assigned causes lung cancer, as the association is so large that alternative
to consume less energy was a longer lifespan. In contrast, the confounders cannot be imagined to be responsible.
association between energy consumed and lifespan was posi- It is important that we only allow for pre-treatment
tive in the association element, meaning that animals that variables. Conditioning on other variables can induce bias
spontaneously chose to eat more lived longer. This was likely where it would otherwise be absent [30]. Post-treatment bias
due to general health being associated with greater appetite can occur when we mistakenly allow for a mediator variable:
and longevity. Yet, stating that this explanation is likely the one that is affected by treatment and in turn, affects the
case does not take away from the fact that this illustrative outcome. Even in an experimental setting where the outcome
example shows that even the most rigorously designed obser- depends on the treatment, conditioning on a mediator can
vational study will not necessarily recapitulate the causal effect mask this dependence. Collider bias can occur when we
that would be obtained in a randomized experiment. mistakenly condition on a variable that is affected by both

treatment and outcome. Other biases are still more subtle.
M-bias [31] can occur when we have a pair of jointly sufficient

(ii) No amount of rigour will overcome the problem completely covariates but we condition on a pre-treatment variable that
While randomized experimentation is the gold standard for is affected by both, which can destroy sufficiency.
estimating causal effects, randomized experiments are often Relationships between the variables in a problem are
impossible to conduct for many reasons: practical, ethical, often represented by means of a causal diagram [4]: a directed
financial, etc. Then recourse may be had to purely observational acyclic graph whose arrows encode direct dependence. This