at a set of locations, each indicated by an open circle with radius proportional to prevalence at the location in question. Right-hand panel: the same values of
prevalence randomly permuted over the locations. Adapted from Diggle et al. [3].

2. Current design and analysis guidelines the current TAS guideline provided that the phenomenon
under investigation does exhibit some degree of spatial
Each NTD has its own set of guidelines for the design and structure.
analysis of a survey to establish whether or not a particular
area, termed an evaluation unit (EU), has or has not achieved
EPHP. In this paper, we focus on the case of lymphatic filar- soe .
iasis (LF), for which the Roadmap target is EPHP and the 3. The geostatistical alternative
relevant guideline is the Transmission Assessment Survey, The example summarized in figure 1 may convince the
or TAS [2]. The key purpose of the TAS is to determine reader, as it does the authors, that location matters. Expressed
whether the mean antigenaemia prevalence is below 2% in in more formal statistical terms, the fact that observed values
areas where Anopheles or Culex is the principal vector, or of prevalence are predictive of unobserved values at nearby
1% where Aedes is the principal vector [2, §7]. locations is a consequence of the existence of spatial correlation.
The LF TAS is a 30-site survey, with sites typically selected If P1 and P2 are the (unknown) values of prevalence at two
by drawing up a list of all potential sites and taking a sys- locations, 0? is the a priori variance of P1 or P2 and p is the
tematic sample of every kth site from a random starting correlation between P1 and P2, then the variance of P2
point, where k is chosen to result in a sample of size 30. given P1 is o(1-p?), which is less than o” unless p=0. The
The total sample size is prescribed, based on the total correlation is spatial if the value of p depends on the corre-
target population in the EU, as is a corresponding critical sponding locations, typically as a function of the distance
cut-off of positive cases for measuring the target threshold between them. Model-based geostatistical methods [4-6]
with a predetermined level of sampling error. Under the explicitly recognize the possibility of spatial correlation in
current guidelines, the decision to declare an EU as having prevalence, but do not impose it; rather, they estimate the
eliminated LF as a public health problem is based on the nature and strength of spatial correlation from the available