0- rainfall (ml m~? month!)

0 50000 100000 150000 200000

rainfall (ml m-? month7!)

Figure 4. Probability density plots of intensive agriculture and scatter plots for EA societies (a,b) and African societies (c,d). (a) The probability density for intensive
agriculture (Al 5 and 6 combined) for all EA societies. B1 and B2 rainfall values are marked with straight lines. (b) The values of B1 and B2 are marked on a
scatterplot of all EA societies with lines. Past B2, agricultural intensity values of 5 and 6 are rare and all intensive agriculture societies were highland farmers.

agriculture. Our analysis suggests that in certain ecologies agriculture developed in regions with high rainfall, including
intensive agriculture may be difficult or impossible to the Inca, Muisca, Sherpa and Kakoli of New Guinea—all of
develop. Intensive agriculture differs from foraging and hor- whom were highland farmers [55-58]. The facts that intensi-
ticulture in that it requires larger amounts of labour input fication is rare at high rainfall and that the four exceptions
and human capital, especially if requiring irrigation or were highland populations supports the hypothesis that bio-
ploughing. A high abundance of pathogens, such as malaria diversity limits agriculture intensification. This is likely
or tsetse fly-borne pathogens, may reduce available human because in highlands, rainfall water is more likely to run off
and animal capital. Biodiversity may also create potential [59], potentially reducing plant and animal biodiversity com-
obstacles to intensive agriculture. Elephants, for instance, pared with a region in lowlands with similar rainfall. The
can decimate farms, rendering intensive agriculture an lower temperatures at high altitude are also likely to contrib-
especially vulnerable subsistence strategy. ute to the reduction in biodiversity. Terracing is usually

Many regions in Africa that recently had foraging or hor- required to support plant cultivation to overcome run-off
ticulture now have intensive agriculture. However, these on steep terrain [57,59]. We also hypothesize that terracing
changes have only come about through technologies gener- limits competition from native plants. This is supported