
hypothesis. For example, one must define PAR as having (dy; /01Ael):
equally deleterious effects regardless of whether the adult - s
environment is better or worse than the developmental E(B) = B+ Yo2od, (3.2) z
environment (‘symmetric’ rather than ‘asymmetric’ PAR; where 7 is equal to dy; /deo and oq is the coefficient from a S
see electronic supplementary material, §SSA and SE and regression of |Ae| on eo. Put simply: the coefficient may be 3
figure S1). Because symmetric PAR posits that changes in biased. A similar problem will afflict any regression equation =
environment have the same effect on outcomes whether the that does not allow all plausible models to be true, a difficulty S
change is positive or negative, a smaller reduction in out- that has been noted before [48]. At best, effect sizes are likely &
comes with positive changes than with negative changes to be over- or under-estimated; at worst, such models will >
suggests AEQ, but also could, in theory, be consistent with generate answers that are the opposite of the real-world 5
asymmetric PAR. truth (e.g. concluding that DC or PAR do not exist when in =
To deal with this issue (called an identification problem in fact they do). Moreover, simply including an ey (or e,) term =
many literatures) in a way that does not arbitrarily prioritize test- in such a model does not solve the problem, for reasons we Ss
ing one hypothesis over another, we recommend (i) explicitly will explain in §6. =
stating the relationships among developmental environment, =
adult environment and the difference between the two, and Pe
(ii) deciding which of these is/are independent of the theoretical 7
model (ie. exogenous to the model's structure), and which a 4. Issues with a common visualization and <
byproduct of the model’s structure (i.e. not independent of . cs
the model’s structure, but simply a byproduct of the exogenous testi ng st rategy S
variation). Only hypotheses that concern the independent One common approach for implementing a prediction error s
variation are testable [45]. test for PAR (§2b) relies on running a regression that contains S
The process that we feel best represents the phenomenon a term for an interaction between the developmental and S
of interest here is that e9 and Ae are independent, and that adult environments (e.g. [23,32,49-53]), i.e.