sensory dependencies may allow marginalization and sensory problem. It may also help elucidate open questions
differentiation of ‘unisensory’ signals. For example, once reti- in the field, such as ‘opposite’ (versus ‘congruent’)
nal movement related to self-generated motion is accounted multisensory tuning, and contrary neuronal recalibration in
for and intrinsically modelled, one may attribute other different brain areas [68]. Internal models built on our own
forms of retinal movement as relating to movement in the bodily experience are also used to perceive other people in
external world. Across all sensory modalities and inter- the world [146,147]. Thus, how causal inference to determine
actions, the subtraction of predicted sensory signals arising internal versus external stimulus origin is used or influenced
from intrinsic correspondences and actions (self model) by this function is an open question. Lastly, many disorders
allows distillation of specific sensory streams. Over time, of brain function have been linked to aberrant ‘unisensory’
this process could allow the differentiation of ‘unisensory’ or multisensory function or causal inference, e.g. autism
signals for perceiving the external world. Indeed, our experi- [148-151], Parkinson’s disease [152,153], schizophrenia
ence of bodily sensations (e.g. proprioception, interoception [109,154] and many more. One therefore needs to be cognizant
and vestibular) are typically not the focus of our explicit of the fact that all ‘unisensory’ performance includes a measure
awareness [141-144], which is directed toward the external of multisensory processing, and that testing a specific multisen-

world. Correspondingly, this transparent phenomenology sory function is just one aspect amongst a broad range of


heterogeneous functions. Better integration (on our behalf) conceptualization, funding acquisition, writing—original draft, writ-
of these disparate aspects of multisensory processing is ing—review and editing.

essential for a comprehensive understanding of the brain, in
health and disease.

Both authors gave final approval for publication and agreed to be