3 2 -1 0 1
log, (ALAN)

Figure 4. Effects of ALAN on plant functional traits. Displayed are also the differences between the selected species and the two harvests. (a) Specific leaf area
(SLA), (b) leaf dry matter content (LDMC) and (c) hairiness. The darker shade of the colours denotes the earlier harvest (October), the lighter the later one (Decem-
ber). Bromus hordaceus is depicted in blue, Trifolium pratense in pink and Plantago lanceolata in gold. Regression lines were drawn in the graphs in the respective
colours.

ALAN, while controlling for other parameters, avoiding (for the temperature was slightly colder, yet above outside con-
instance) seasonal drought effects or biomass removal due to ditions (mean soil temperature (20 cm below surface) between
herbivores or disturbance. Even though light levels at night all EcoUnits was 17.3°C in October and 16.7°C in December).
were high (around 2% of the daytime illumination within the Also, the noticeable absence of some plant species in the
EcoUnits under the highest ALAN treatment and full moon), second harvest could be due to the fact that they did not cope
they suffered rather than benefited from it. The consistent with the disturbance induced by the harvest itself.
decrease in productivity across species in plant communities The community composition was more affected by season of
subjected to high levels of ALAN is remarkable, especially harvest than by the different ALAN regimes. In general, plant
given that plants were not likely to be able to use the light at communities in the first harvest were much more diverse
night to activate photosynthesis [18]. between as well as within communities than in the second har-
An important caveat is that we detected a strong influence vest, which can be seen in the spread within the DCA as well
of harvest time on many response variables, including plant as the Shannon diversity. The decline in evenness as observed
biomass, and some plant traits. Notably, the experimental dur- in this study further illustrates the effects of ALAN, as some
ation between harvests was longer before the first compared to species became dominant and others failed to reestablish after
the second harvest. Therefore, the plants may not have been as the harvest. It is striking to see that some species failed to grow
well developed and were in general shorter in harvest 2. The in the high-ALAN treatments (see electronic supplementary
effects of ALAN were much stronger on the plants that had a material, figure S1), but also fewer species from the local seed-