patterns of decision making [28-31]. By ‘classical’ decision ability and value across these tasks [35]; another found
making, we mean decisions about verbally or symbolically pre- broadly comparable performance [36]. This general approach
sented options. One example of this type of problem is a lottery, compares intrinsic (visuo-motor) and extrinsic (stochastic)
such as ‘would you rather gain $3000 for sure or have an 80% uncertainty, but there are other differences in the two task
chance of gaining $4000?’ [29]. A second is a decision informed types: visuo-motor uncertainty is presented perceptually by a
by a base rate (similar to a prior in perceptual tasks), for example: bar width, while extrinsic (stochastic) uncertainty is given via
how likely it is that a blue versus green taxi was responsible for the classical numeric (symbolic) route. Therefore, differences
a traffic accident, knowing that 85% of taxis in the city are green in behaviour may depend in part on the origin and nature of
and 15% blue, and that the witness (who judged that it was the uncertainty (internal versus external) and in part on the
blue) is only correct at making this discrimination 80% of the manner of presentation (perceptual versus symbolic).
time? (the ‘taxicab problem’ [30]). A third kind is a multiple- Astudy wholly within the perceptual domain manipulated
factor combination judgement, such as deciding how toxic a an array of oriented gratings in two ways [37]: by changes in
fictitious bug is likely to be based on multiple predictive cues the stimulus contrast, and changes in the variability of orien-
(e.g. leg length, colour) [31]. tations across the different gratings in the array. Expressing

Perhaps most pertinent to the questions asked in this this in our framework, reducing contrast increases intrinsic
study is the issue of weighting of experience versus externally (perceptual) uncertainty, while increasing variability increases
provided statistics. A veteran physician will have accumu- the difficulty of the information integration problem of cor-
lated years of experience of diagnosing common diseases, rectly averaging together disparate estimates. This study did
but may have no experience with very rare diseases. A poss- not have ‘extrinsic’ uncertainty (nothing is stochastic: an ideal
ible problem is that they may rely too heavily on their observer without limitations in perceptual precision or compu-
experience, and under-value the potential of diseases not pre- tational abilities could deal with both the contrast and the
viously diagnosed, possibly owing to the representativeness variability manipulations), but is related by the authors to
heuristic [32]. (This is in contrast to a more junior physician cognitive decision-making in an interesting way. They found
who might over-represent the possibility of diseases that that participants took contrast-related (intrinsic) uncertainty