ance compared with zenith brightness, which is consistent instance, the impact of anthropogenic light on European
with conceptual models that have identified positive and nega- bats depends on the species’ foraging guild [63]. The
tive phototaxis as being much more closely related to glare response of bats to lights at foraging grounds separates two
than to overall irradiance [2,59]. High radiance values detected groups: 1) those species hunting in open space or right over
by the VIIRS satellite are associated with lights within the canopy that exploit insects attracted to streetlights, and conse-
immediate vicinity of an animal (within 500 m), while zenith quently benefit from lights [63]; and 2) those species hunting
brightness values may be elevated with few nearby lights close to or on substrates (i.e. typically forest bats) that are less
so long as substantial light sources are within the region abundant in illuminated, urbanized landscapes [63].
(kms), as is in the case in the study area. In this context, it Mountain lions, whose probability of presence was
appears that animals are avoiding directly lit zones in the reduced in locations with higher upward night-time radiance
landscape—where they would be able to see actual lamps values, are ambush predators that rely upon concealment
directly as opposed to sky glow—while continuing to use when hunting deer, their main prey [64,65]. This was the
and in fact slightly preferring habitat with elevated light reason given to justify mountain lions’ avoidance of areas
levels from sky glow. This is consistent with other research with high light levels in a recent study of their habitat selection
on predator-prey relations relative to moonlight and artificial relative to light at night [31]. Namely, these authors suggested
light, wherein some additional illumination benefits the pred- that the likely reason behind these lions’ avoidance of areas
ator [12,60]. To give one example, the common redshank with high light levels—which they measured as upward
(Tringa totanus) switched from foraging by touch to visual radiance—is that this pollution hinders their hunting strategy
foraging both whenever ALAN levels were high and during based on ambushing. Indeed, mountain lions hunting in
bright moonlit nights, increasing its foraging time [61]. A areas with high night-time light levels killed deer in the
recent study based on casual observations has shown that relatively darkest places within the landscape [31]. Whereas
moderated levels of zenith brightness increased the number these authors included only one variable characterizing
of mountain lion sightings in Latin American urban areas night-time light (upward radiance), we also included a
[24]. However, these moderate light levels may also have second one (zenith brightness) and accounted for lunar illumi-
