70 m (from artificial sky glow) to 100 m (from e.g. waterside ing impacts, ALAN has the potential to significantly alter
street lighting; [7]). Rapid urbanization of global coastlines community structure and whole system function. Here, we
[8] means that ALAN in shallow marine environments, have identified four key mechanisms or processes driven by
where most of the world’s marine biodiversity is found [9], is natural light conditions, by which ALAN can alter reef ecosys-
expected to continue to increase in extent and intensity [10]. tems through direct and indirect impacts on individual

This widespread exposure of marine systems to ALAN organisms: (i) by increasing primary production; (ii) through
is of significant ecological concern for two reasons. First, the impacts on the physiology, reproduction, and survival of reef
predictability and magnitude of changes in nocturnal illumina- community members; (iii) by interfering with biological tim-
tion throughout the lunar cycle has led to many organisms on ings of key events; and (iv) by influencing the movement of
coral and temperate reefs evolving biological rhythms that organisms through phototactic behaviour (attraction/repul-
change with variation in moonlight [11,12]. Consequently, sion) (figure 1a). These four mechanisms are not mutually
moonlight, and/or the lack of (i.e. darkness), is a critical exclusive, and in fact, probably co-occur on reefs creating a __
time cue for the proper functioning of reef ecosystems, and is feedback loop in which ALAN can simultaneously directly = =
intrinsically tied to reproduction, settlement and recruitment, and indirectly influence each mechanism. Changes resulting = 5!
activity and trophic interactions on shallow reefs [11]. Even from any one of these mechanisms will probably have cascad-  &
small changes in the light environment are detectable by ing effects through the food-web, re-shaping reef communities =
many marine organisms and have the potential to significantly (figure 1b), and potentially creating novel ecosystem dynamics = &
impact biological or ecosystem function. Second, the impacts of (figure 1c). In this section, we explore these mechanisms =
ALAN exposure are likely to be amplified by the relatively further by first discussing the importance of nocturnal illumi- 3
recent move to energy efficient, broadband light-emitting nation for each underlying process, and second, by providing =~
diodes (LEDs; [7]), which are rich in short wavelengths. Short the evidence, or the potential, for direct and indirect effects S
wavelengths penetrate deeper through the water column, of ALAN on individual organisms and outcomes for reef 5
and many marine organisms are naturally sensitive to these communities.
