viewing Policeman Bemused by Picasso in person, you see both time increases—the aesthetic effect of pictures cannot be
a man looking at a painting and a panel of wood covered in attributed to the reward gained from uncertainty reduction.
brushed paint. Nor can it be accounted for by the pleasures of disambiguat-

Elsewhere I have described this twofold aspect of pictures ing among competing hypotheses as suggested by Karl
as a dichotomy because of the seemingly impossible position Friston above. And given that prolonged viewing of a picture
it puts us in as perceivers [25]. Indeed, one of the most promi- increasingly violates the strong expectation (or what has been
nent advocates of the ‘perception as inference’ approach, called a Bayesian ‘hyperprior’ [2]) that a perceived object
Richard Gregory, said that pictures are ‘impossible’ for exactly should be either one thing or another, and not two different
this reason, and that the incompatibility between these ‘double things at the same time, the valence of pictorial experience
realities’ constitutes a ‘paradox’ [26]. Wollheim’s original argu- should be negative according to the theory of Joffily &
ment has generated voluminous debate among philosophers Coricelli [18]. Nevertheless, our experiences of pictures per
of art and aesthetics, including a famous dispute between se are not generally unpleasant, and in fact prolonged or
him and Gombrich about whether we see these two aspects ‘slow viewing’ of an ambiguous work of art is more likely
simultaneously or alternately (see [27]). to enhance aesthetic experience [30].

The twofold or dichotomous nature of picture perception is An alternative way to account for this phenomenon, which
a fundamental feature of many art experiences and is often I will return to below, is that the very impossibility of resolving
mentioned by artists as one of the reasons that art can engage the dichotomy between the competing hypotheses produces a
us so powerfully. In an interview given in 1960, for example, state of ‘perceptual dissonance’ in the beholder. In its mildest
the painter Philip Guston said: ‘In those great Rembrandts form this evokes interest and in its strongest form it evokes a
there’s an ambiguity of paint being image and image being sense of fascination, even exhilaration, that is intrinsically excit-
paint, which is very mysterious’ [28, p. 14]. Yet to the best of ing or arousing [25,31]. Painters are often aware of this, and
my knowledge, it has not been explicitly considered in the con- deliberately exploit it for aesthetic effect. In Policeman Bemused
text of the PP framework (see footnote 12 in [29]). From a PP by Picasso, for example, the dichotomy is heightened by the sal-