the adaptation successfully spreads to all simulated individ- teacher independently of group membership. Our work,
uals (i.e. agents) in the model, and not the innovation of a then, complements related studies that used alternative
novel adaptation per se. This represents the cases where, for model formulations. For example, Lieberman et al. [22]
example, an adaptation is introduced by a development found that network structure strongly constrained adaptive
actor such as a local government or international develop- trait fixation and evolutionary game dynamics. On the other
ment agency [6,9]. It also may represent the case where an hand, Deffner & Kandler [23] found that idealized agents
adaptation already exists and has been maintained through evolved strategies to balance fast innovation with more sus-
intergenerational transmission, for example, among Indigen- tainable long-term adaptations in a well-mixed, fitness-
ous populations [9,14]. Adaptation failure in our model is biased learning model; in that model, simulated learners
represented by the loss of the adaptive behaviour from the chose a fully random subset of teachers from a large popu-
population, i.e. all agents adopt the non-adaptive behaviour. lation, then learned from the best-performing teacher. Our
Note, then, that it is possible for model agents to revert to minority—majority approach takes a middle ground, represent-
the non-adaptive behaviour through social learning after ing the fact that human social networks constrain who we
learning the adaptive behaviour (the exact model learning interact with, but we also regularly interact with strangers.
process is explained in §2 below). When either adaptive suc- Our model most closely represents those climate change
cess or failure occur we say that either the adaptive or non- adaptations that may spread from one person or household
adaptive trait has fixated, respectively. We will show that to another. The case of climate change adaptation in South
adaptation success is significantly more likely when minority Pacific Island nations provides several useful examples
groups start out knowing the adaptive behaviour, indicating to which our model may be applied, where the spread of
their role as adaptation incubators. We will show that adap- adaptations has been observed to require dedicated inclusion
tation success is also significantly more likely when the of minority-group populations often spread out among
majority group has a relatively high degree of homophily several islands, physically and socially separated from
in order to protect the adaptive behaviour once it has dif- urban, governmental centres located on separate islands
fused into the majority group, indicating the majority [24-26]. Torres Strait Islanders in the South Pacific, for
group’s role as an adaptation reservoir, preserving the adap- example, have historically dealt with non-anthropogenic