out losing our awareness of the picture surface itself—even
when the perceived direction of the deformation directly con-

tradicts that of the illusion. With colleagues Alistair Burleigh, 5. 0 ppo rtunities and questi ons
Nicole Ruta and others, I continue to investigate these and This issue of Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B exemplifies the growing
similar effects in the fields of perception science and compu- trend in which scientists apply their tools and theories to
ter graphics [37,38]. For present purposes, I note that these the study of art, not only to learn what science can discover
examples illustrate a further key theoretical principle of the about art but also what art can teach science. My own experi-
PP approach. ence over many years has taught me that integrating art and
A principal feature of PP, as propounded by theorists such science research such that both contribute and benefit equally
as Seth [4], Clark [39], Howhy [1] and Friston [3], is that the can be highly challenging, not least because of the deep-
biological purpose of perception is to guide effective action. seated differences in history and mindset between these
In fact, perception and action are two aspects of one continu- fields. In writing this opinion piece I have found a surprising
ous process through which we navigate the world in ways degree of commonality between the ideas that motivate many

that keep us within states that are optimal for survival. artists and the core principles of the PP approach. These


commonalities present an opportunity for genuine art- importance of art’, he writes movingly of his pleasure and

science dialogue through which new knowledge could be shock when studying a self-portrait by Pierre Bonnard for
generated that neither could generate alone. over an hour (far longer, incidentally, than is normally
Given that we are in the early stages of capitalizing on allowed for viewing stimuli in art-based psychology exper-
this opportunity, questions inevitably remain that need to iments). He said: ‘I think that art can be a unique,
be considered if the PP approach is to provide a comprehen- essentially non-verbal, channel of experience, by means of