in the broad sense of increasing the character and quality of continue to be extracted from the poor and marginalized to >
those agents’ lives. In this sense, we have emphasized the improve the comfort and welfare of the wealthy and power- =
contingency of evolutionary processes in producing outcomes ful—often on purpose. As the Anthropocene proceeds, = &
that are all-things-considered beneficial to the lives of resources become depleted, and the livability and economic ©
humans and other organisms. potentials of different parts of the earth shift, these differen- S
Our argument provides a general theoretical rationale tial impacts of human-induced niche construction will —
for the need for planned policies of climate-change adap- continue to proliferate. For example, the melting of Arctic S
tation. More specifically, our argument highlights the sea ice will be an economic boon to some, and a source of S
importance of polices of climate-change adaptation that misery, death and displacement for others [64]. Here, too,
seek to introduce structural interventions into current practices economic and political power seems likely to accelerate
of human environmental interaction. rather than dampen the harmful dynamical processes of
Technological innovations pertaining to the introduction of niche construction during the Anthropocene.
novel sources of energy and energy storage—or, alternatively, We believe that these historical facts about the cultural
to novel means of CO; reduction—clearly do have important evolution of the Anthropocene provide support for those
roles to play in global policies of climate-change adaptation who have called for climate change reparations that provide
[54]. However, our argument in this paper raises an acute chal- economic support and tractable means of fossil-fuel reduction
lenge to those who would maintain that such technological and environmental safeguards to communities that have
innovations will arise in the context of open market national been subject to colonial rule and imperialistic practices
economies or as the natural byproduct of human cultural pro- [18,55,63]. Whatever the fate of this specific policy proposal,
gress more generally (cf. [24]). For as we have already noted, we take our argument to show any discussion of policies of
economic competition between and within cultural groups climate change adaptation is incomplete without a recog-
(whether those groups are nations, corporations or groups of nition of the roles of colonialism and imperialism in
other kinds) generates incentive structures that favour shaping the current geopolitical landscape [65].

already-established practices of energy production and con-