able to do this by constantly retraining his perceptual fac- appears equally likely. Artists actively cultivate such states in
ulties to maximize the information gained from increasingly themselves and aspire to evoke them in others through their
impoverished visual data, which led to him making new art. So much so that this may be regarded, in behavioural
visual discoveries [44]. In an essay entitled ‘Perceptual sys- terms, as seeking prediction error maximization, at least in the

tems, an inexhaustible reservoir of information and the short term, while affording opportunities for its minimization


in the long term. What might motivate such contrarian behav- above, where viewers find certain works mysterious even | 8 |

iour if the fundamental imperative of brain processing and though aspects of the sensory evidence they evoke seems to
bodily action is to minimize prediction error? be highly reliable, and this ‘drives a wedge between experience S
One possible response is suggested by the statement from and the world’, as the authors cited above put it. And the fact =
Bridget Riley quoted above: ‘Looking is, I feel, a vital aspect that we seem to pay greater attention to ambiguous artworks = 3
of existence. Perception constitutes our awareness of what may be because they require us to allocate ‘gain’ to some “=
it is to be human, indeed what it is to be alive.’ If being parts of the sensory input to increase the precision of the =
aware is what it is to feel alive, and if highly salient prediction signal and thus its statistical weight in perceptual inference S
errors are marked by heightened state of awareness, then [50]. This activation of attentional mechanisms may in tum = &
maximizing these errors, within certain bounds, can effec- account for the heightened sense of awareness that Bridget =
tively heighten one’s sense of existence. In other words, the Riley says we experience when looking intensely. 5
multifarious, contradictory, paradoxical, and illogical states =
of mind produced in a person when they look intensely at =
the world, or at a powerful work of art, make us alive to ; s
the world. 7. Conclusion =
To push this idea one step further, we might say that the In this opinion piece I have explored the connections between =