inner HF cells & a
@ progenitors and 1 Low & §
seeee © differentiated ITGos ITGa6 $ &

Figure 3. Characterization of Padi3 isoform expression. (a) Schematic illustration of Padi3a and the predicted Padi3@ chromatin highlighting exons (boxes) and
introns (lines). Padi3a and Padi3 first exon with appended 5’UTRs are coloured in purple and green, respectively. Padi3{3 transcription is initiated downstream of
the first exon of Padi3a, and the Padi38 mRNA begins with the intronic region (green box) being combined with a part of the second Padi3ar exon (large white
box). (6) PADI3c and PADI36 differ in their N-terminal domain (PAD_N), whereas the middle (PAD_M) and C-terminal (PAD_C) domain are identical. Calcium
binding sites (*), required for enzymatic activity are intact in both PADI3 isoforms. Three-dimensional models (Q9Z184 for PADI3a. and E9QAM4 for PADI3B) gen-
erated using AlphaFold prediction [36,37] show the difference in the N-terminal truncation in PADI3B (highlighted in green) compared with PADI3c (highlighted in
purple). (c) The amino acid sequences of the unique portion of each PADI3 isoform, colour coding corresponds to the structure highlighted in (a,b). (d) Illustration of
FACS strategy using a Krt74:H2B-GFP mouse at P2 to mark all epithelial cells (interfollicular epidermis and hair follicle). SCA1 expression is used to discern hair
follicle epithelium (SCA1-negative) from interfollicular epidermis (SCA1-positive). Two hair follicle cell populations (GFP-+, SCA1-) are FACS isolated based on ITGo.6
(integrin-c16) expression. ITGcx6-positive cells (ITGo.6"') correspond to hair follicle stem cell progeny located at the basement membrane along the hair follicle (outer
HF cells (ORS (outer root sheath)), whereas ITGo.6-negative (ITGo:6'™) cells reside in the inner cell layers of the hair follicle and represent progenitors and differ-
entiated hair lineages (inner HF cells). (e) Padi3c and Padi3 mRNA levels comparing Go6'™ and ITGo6" hair follicle cells, showing the normalized mRNA
expression relative to Padi3c and Padi3Z expression in primary keratinocytes in culture. Both Padi3a@ and Padi3B are enriched in the inner cell layers of the
hair follicle (ITGo:6'"), corresponding to progenitor and differentiated hair lineage cells, (n = 2). Data are represented as mean + s.d,

of Padi2B and Mog (a marker for oligodendrocyte differen- where PADI2§ acts to restrict lineage progression (electronic
tiation) mRNA during oligodendrocyte lineage maturation, supplementary material, figure S1b,c).

indicating that Padi26 transcripts are dynamically regulated Probing for potential compensation between the two Padi2
in vivo during oligodendrocyte lineage progression mimick- isoforms revealed that silencing of Padi2a reduced Padi2£ levels,
ing the expression dynamics reported for Padi2a (as shown whereas siRNA targeting of Padi2B failed to affect Padi2a