that TH impact the activity of lipid metabolism enzymes, there- each generation, TH are essential players in the local acclim-
fore influencing energy availability in the transforming larvae ation of juveniles resulting from metamorphosis to their local
[92]. Furthermore, transcriptomic analysis of larval develop- environment and our work on anemonefish and surgeonfish ~
ment in several fish species have revealed differences in goes in this direction [21,90]. This view is supported by data
transcript levels of genes involved in metabolic pathways, suggesting the acclimation and adaptation of animal popu-
namely glycolysis, the citric acid cycle, and fatty acid B-oxi- lations via the modulation of the TH pathway (for example:
dation [21,93]. In anemonefish, metamorphosis marks the [17,18]). In particular, TH changes also occur at the evolution-
shift between anaerobic and aerobic metabolism and TH are ary scale, allowing true local adaptation of animals. This line
involved in the regulation of this transition [21]. Clearly, of research should now be a priority if we want to better
more studies shedding light on how TH control metabolism understand the ecological function of TH.
during metamorphosis would be particularly desirable to This is also important because multiple human activities
fully reconcile the action of TH in triggering and coordinating induce harmful effects in animals and in particular on the
metamorphosis and its known metabolic function. youngest life stages. In fact, many anthropogenic stressors

and pollutants [101], artificial light at night [102,103], and

climate change [90,104] act by disrupting TH signalling path-
5. Conclusion way at one level or another. We believe that in many cases
these stressors actually induce disharmonies which produce
animals that are not truly adapted to their environment, lead-
ing to a reduced ecological quality and little chance of
survival (figure 4). Similar causes may be implicated in the
‘carry-over’ effects that were described in several contexts
including human diseases [105-107]. This general model of
the ecological function of TH provides a useful framework