Stretching the torso also prepares divers’ bodies for the ardours of depth. As divers descend, the lungs are compressed,
although ‘lung packing’ and blood shift can delay the effect. At greater depths, divers must have sufficient flexibility in the
diaphragm and ribcage to allow the lungs to be compressed without injury; the lungs of some deep-diving mammals are
adapted to collapse completely for protection. Research on divers who dove 56-76 m found 88% experienced haemoptysis
afterwards; that is, they coughed blood from pulmonary barotrauma, caused by collapse of alveolar capillaries in the lungs
[98,99]. Exsufflation exercises or ‘reverse lung packing’, in which divers exhale as much as possible and then try to squeeze out
still more breath, is one technique divers use to improve torso flexibility and guard against barotrauma from ‘the squeeze’. The
physiological effects of hydrostatic pressure demonstrate that the difference between ‘adaptation’ and ‘damage’ can be a matter
of cultural expectations, including participants’ willingness to take risks and suffer physiological consequences of performance.

6. Conclusion

Cultural effects on embodiment are not clearly distinct from biological facts, in spite of what our academic division of labour
suggests. As Krieger argues, embodiment is literal [100]. The recognition of cultural variation in embodiment should prompt
cultural anthropologists and others to address the complex, multi-directional mechanisms that link social facts, behavioural
patterns and ideational constructs in diverse cultures with human phenotypic development. Ingold has observed, however, that
even those anthropologists who have accepted the ‘idea of embodiment as a paradigm for the study of culture’ and denounced
mind/body dualism often baulk at attempts to integrate biology into cultural research [17, p. 170]. Instead, ‘embodiment’ in


cultural anthropology tends to refer to the phenomenological fact of having a body rather than the physiological consequences
of patterned practice (e.g. [101]).

One reason is that some anthropologists probably fear, once the ‘black box’ of physiology is opened, it will be difficult
to preserve anything ‘cultural’ in a biological account. What the close analysis of mechanisms of embodiment in freediving