of cultural expectations, including participants’ willingness to take risks and suffer physiological consequences of performance.

6. Conclusion

Cultural effects on embodiment are not clearly distinct from biological facts, in spite of what our academic division of labour
suggests. As Krieger argues, embodiment is literal [100]. The recognition of cultural variation in embodiment should prompt
cultural anthropologists and others to address the complex, multi-directional mechanisms that link social facts, behavioural
patterns and ideational constructs in diverse cultures with human phenotypic development. Ingold has observed, however, that
even those anthropologists who have accepted the ‘idea of embodiment as a paradigm for the study of culture’ and denounced
mind/body dualism often baulk at attempts to integrate biology into cultural research [17, p. 170]. Instead, ‘embodiment’ in


cultural anthropology tends to refer to the phenomenological fact of having a body rather than the physiological consequences
of patterned practice (e.g. [101]).

One reason is that some anthropologists probably fear, once the ‘black box’ of physiology is opened, it will be difficult
to preserve anything ‘cultural’ in a biological account. What the close analysis of mechanisms of embodiment in freediving
suggests, by contrast, is that examining the organic consequences of skill acquisition demonstrates instead that enculturation
goes deep into the body. Patterned practices affect the nervous system, muscles, connective tissue and functioning of our
organism. The mechanisms through which physiology enables cultural expression and through which patterns of practice
canalize phenotypic plasticity turn out to be widely varied, multi-directional, operating on a variety of time scales and variably
accessible to reflection or intentional action.

In fact, gaining expertise in freediving can be likened to a succession of stages in which practitioners’ growing proficiency
exposes their bodies to more stressful environments and new adaptive challenges. Earlier progress, whether changes in