Alongside bradycardia, divers also undergo sympathetically induced vasoconstriction in the peripheral circulatory system

49]. Vasoconstriction reduces blood flow to the extremities, shunting blood to the body’s core and maintaining blood pressure

as heart rate drops. In animals adapted for diving, vasoconstriction is severe: anticipating a long dive seals dramatically
decrease blood flow to muscles and visceral organs, only circulating oxygenated blood to the brain [52, p. 10]. As with
bradycardia, vasoconstriction varies among human subjects; research found more than five times greater vasoconstriction in
experienced divers compared to controls, so it may be more susceptible to training effects than bradycardia, even though it
is less phenomenologically salient to divers [62, p. 723; 63]. The modification in circulation is so profound that physiologist
Gooden discovered blood flow almost stopped to the forearm of a subject who underwent a particularly dramatic dive response
58, p. 7].

The example of novice divers with maladaptive responses underscores the fact that veteran freedivers have more efficient,
better-articulated dive responses than novices [57]. In the most extreme cases, ‘autonomic conflict’ may arise between parasym-
pathetic bradycardia and sympathetic tachycardia, opposed cardiac responses. Shattock & Tipton [64] draw on evidence of
arrhythmias in healthy subjects immersed in cold water to offer a potential explanation for the phenomenon of ‘dry drowning’:
drowning victims found to have no water in their lungs when autopsied. They argue that strong simultaneous activation of
sympathetic and parasympathetic responses in sudden cold-water immersion may overwhelm the heart. Even in expert divers,
dyssynchronous heart rhythms, possibly from autonomic conflict, can create heart arrhythmias, although these patterns are also
seen in some deep-diving mammals, suggesting the response is neither wholly adaptive nor maladaptive [54, pp. 1348-1349].
The point is that the dive response, under training conditions, can be reinforced, but it also can be undermined, including by
individuals’ emotional experiences or behaviour.

An expert dive response is a combined biological and cultural achievement. Built upon ancient neurological potential,
reflex patterns that predate our species’ origins, it also involves volitional self-regulation of emotions, bodily priming through