
(c) Considering variation in social information use among individuals

An additional interesting finding from our field experiment is that individuals varied in their response to the inadvertent social
information—some visited the trees later than others (figure 3; electronic supplementary material, figure S1), and some appear
to have not responded to the information whatsoever (57 out of 72,). These individual-level differences may attest to variations
in internal traits, such as energetical needs or consistent behavioural tendencies (i.e. personality), which were shown to correlate
with the individual’s propensity to learn socially [27,83-87].

For example, the observed time-lag differences between the first exposure to the first tree visit suggest these bats can retain
the memory of the new information for several nights post-exposure, allowing them to weigh the costs of visiting known
resources against the benefits of exploring new ones according to their current energetical requirements, which are expected to
vary among individuals. This notion is further supported by the fact that almost all bats visited at least one tree prior to visiting
an F. sycomorus after the manipulation, which implies that all bats postponed the exploration to some degree to first use more
reliable resources.

Alternatively, since bats were smeared with a large amount of fruit pulp, more than expected under natural conditions, this
could have prolonged the lifespan of the odour in the cave for several nights after the manipulation. In this case, some bats
may have delayed their response because they required additional insurance that the information was reliable. This could have


been achieved by repeatedly smelling the odour in the roost or spending more time identifying from whom it came. Indeed,
laboratory-based studies on this and similar species demonstrated that fruit bats evaluate the quality of the information before
choosing a novel food item [54], and exhibit consistent differences in the propensity to act as producers or scroungers when
feeding together [61].