change the impact of the content. However, this impact is ==>

(b) Directional goals to seek desirable (and avoid

undesirable) outcomes not straightforward. Sometimes perceivers engage more E
The second kind of motivational influence is directional and deeply with specific content when it is disfluent [95,115]. For = =
denotes the desirability or undesirability of specific outcomes example, noticing a seemingly incongruent lightbulb in ‘Guer- >
that a person wants to achieve or avoid, respectively. For nica’ may lead the viewer to discover its deeper meaning. Ss
instance, typically people want to be healthy rather than Also, sometimes greater fluency facilitates access to negative = =
sick, accepted by others rather than ostracized, admired for meaning [58,116]. For example, greater ease of recognizing = 5!
their achievements rather than met with contempt, or have the grieving mother in ‘Guernica’ may help the viewer to >
their ideas implemented rather than discarded. The epistemic better decipher the antiwar message. But it may also lead =
nature of these motivations lies in the fact that individuals the viewer to be more upset by the horror of the event. The = &
form beliefs that denote whether those outcomes were possibility that greater fluency can sometimes enhance negative =
achieved or could be achieved. Namely, they want to believe reactions was only peripherally mentioned in the original flu- =
that these outcomes occurred or could occur, and when ency theory. Yet, it is key for frameworks like the Fluency w
they arrive at such a desired conclusion, they experience Amplification Model, which proposes that fluency can &
positive affect. However, if the beliefs convey an undesirable enhance access to both positive and negative content [116]. S
truth about the outcome they would rather avoid, people Indeed, recent work has shown that greater ease in recognizing
experience negative affect. a pattern can lead to more negative ratings of that pattern, if the

This kind of motivational influence may seem initially pattern belongs to a negative category [58]. There is a debate as
less obvious in the context of art, which is often associated to whether this greater ease of access to negative content can
with the primary goal of aesthetic pleasure. However, note simultaneously coexist (and combine) with the positivity
there are many other specific goals that can be satisfied or fru- deriving from ease, or whether the positive and negative