delighting in discovering their superior driving skills). their prior belief was held with high (versus low) confidence. S
Future research should explore whether focusing perceivers For example, the prior reviews could be more or less unequi-
on their own metacognitive accuracy leads to negative affec- vocal and the quality of the first painting could be more or
tive consequences when they experience such discrepancies. less unmistakable.
But, as mentioned, this phenomenon is more likely related The EMM assumes, as does PPE, that the implied change
to one’s high-level, general epistemic goals—a topic we in prior beliefs, given new evidence, quantifies surprise
turn to in the next section. (informational gain) induced by new information [11,12]. Sur-
In concluding this section, we hope to have convinced prise indicates that something occurred that prior beliefs did
the reader that the fluency theory has much to benefit, both not predict. Surprise can happen when a person had no clear
conceptually and empirically, from the PPF. PPF offers impor- expectations (e.g. ‘I don’t know who the painter is’) and they
tant, empirically verified or verifiable insights about the role of updated their beliefs in any direction, or when their clear
internal models and expectations about stimulus processing as expectations were violated (e.g. ‘I thought it was Cezanne
well as expectations about fluency itself. Note, however, that but in fact the painter was Picasso’). It highlights the impor-
the standard PPF could be extended by including a broader tant role of prior expectations (e.g. expertise on the previous
consideration of goals [12]. This is because beyond building style of the artist, reputation of the gallery, reviews of the
accurate predictive models, people have other epistemic goals movie) in creating a sense of surprise. As we discussed ear-
that guide their cognitive activities and affective reactions. lier, these prior expectations will also change fluency—with
This brings us to the next set of challenges. expected events being more fluent.

However, according to EMM, the process of integrating
the prior hypothesis with new evidence does not in itself
result in affective reactions and positive or negative evalu-

5. Fluency and the role of epistemic goals ation, because active epistemic goals should be taken into
A big challenge to the original fluency theory is that people account. This idea stems from the assumption that people