that we altered by this one or more figures which were quite right according to the law of the horizontal
: curve, but which would form, after the adjustment, an unevenness in that curve. To make it disappear,
: we begin to smooth in the horizontal axis, but may thus produce new irregularities in other parts of the
vertical cnrves, and so on without end. Finally, after having smoothed repeatedly larger and larger
A sections as well of the longitudinal as of the latitudinal curves, we may readily arrive at a regular shape
, of the whole, at something like a globe. But one will perhaps argue, that in such a way we shaped
the facts according to our preconceived opinion, and that in such a state of things, the question might
: be asked : Why struggle at all with the observation of facts, if we can arrive much more easily at the
| desired regularity by simply constructing it according to our preconceived ideas ?
| There is no doubt that the frequency of the oscillations of the curves depends on the largeness of the
material, that is, on the number of age-combinations according to which it has been divided into
parts. The larger the population observed, or the fewer the number of age-combinations established,
the more regular the course of the curves. This is proved by the fact that the quinquennial recapitula-
tion, based on only 54 age-combinations, shows in both axes a nearly absolutely regular course of its
curves, It may thus be supposed that the 59 curves of the yearly age-combinations would also offer a


870 MR. J. KOROSI ON AN ESTIMATE OF THE DEGREES OF LEGITIMATE

regular march if the population observed embraced 14-2 millions of souls. But as I could observe
only half-a-milllion, the frequent oscillations must be accepted as an inevitable consequence of the
quantitative insufficiency of the material. Therefore, it seems to me‘not advisable to force on so small a _
material the regular course of all the 59 curves. I for my part should content myself with the adjust. —
ment of the two monogenous and the 17 quinquennial bigenous curves only.
