The locality of the sorus in this species can be very early recognised, in sections
which traverse it transversely, by means of the hairs which rise from its margin
(fig. 45). The cells which will give rise to the sorus, though not yet projecting
beyond the general surface, are deeper than those of the surrounding tissue ; they are
not constant either in number or form, nor in details of: segmentation, as will be seen
from figs. 45, 46, 47, 48; and this want of constancy of detail is a feature which is
maintained all through the development of the sorus, showing a marked contrast to
the regularity of the segmentations involved in the formation of the Leptosporangiate
sporangium. Very soon the central region of the sorus is left behind by the more
active growth on either side (figs. 46, 47, cells marked «), the sorus thus beginning
to assume its characteristic form. It might already be concluded, from fig. 46, that
there is no strict regularity of segmentation of the cells on either side of the median
line, as seen in transverse section of the sorus; but this fact is still more apparent in
a tangential section of the pinnule (fig. 47), in which the young sorus is seen in ground
plan. In the stage there represented it is impossible to recognise with certainty which
cells will ultimately give rise to the essential part of the sporangia, and which will
form the sterile septa; all appear alike as regards contents, and equally indefinite as
regards their segmentation. Similar results are obtained from a section longitudinaliy
through the region where the sporangia will arise (fig. 47, section along line b, b, shown
as fig. 48) ; here again it is impossible to distinguish the future septa from sporogenous
cells. In representing the development of the sporangium of Angiopteris, GorBEL
(‘ Bot. Zeit.,’ 1881, Plate 6, figs. 4 and 5) enumerates certain anticlinal walls, thereby
implying that there is in that genus a constancy in their number and appearance,
while he further points out that there is a constant relation of these to the origin of
the archesporial cell, which is described as the “hypodermal terminal cell of the central