sion has been found to be much more marked than in Dicksonia. The receptacle is
cylindrical and elongated, and traversed by tracheides for a considerable distance
(fig. 130); upon it the sporangia arise, as a rule, in strictly basipetal order. The
sporangia themselves undergo the usual segmentation ; when mature they have long
stalks composed of three rows of cells; the head is not bilaterally symmetrical, but
one side is more strongly convex than the other; and it will be seen from fig. 130
that the more convex side is the peripheral one. The annulus is not exactly vertical,
a but, running round the margin of the sporangium to the attachment of the stalk, it
Q is there slightly diverted to one side (fig. 131); usually the sequence of cells of the
+ annulus is not wholly interrupted by the insertion of the stalk, but its cells are more
‘g or less in contact with one another, and the annulus is in such cases actually con-
# tinuous at the base, as it is in those sporangia where it is more conspicuously oblique.
“” In fact the sporangium of D. apiifolia shows, though in a less obvious degree than in
S Dicksonia, the oblique annulus. The nearer side of the sporangium shown in fig. 131
8 is the less convex one; it is the “ central” face, and corresponds structurally to that
= shown in fig. 89 of Alsophila, or to that shown by Kny for Nephrodium,* the middle
% part of the wall being derived from segment IT., which takes no part in the formation
‘4 of the annulus. The more convex side is the peripheral face (fig. 130), and it is on
2 this side that the annulus may be seen to show the last traces of continuity at the
base. Thus D. apifolia has this interest: that with a typically basipetal sorus the
‘2 long-stalked sporangia show an almost vertical annulus, but it is still sufficiently
2 oblique to serve for comparison with those basipetal types in which the obliqueness is
= much more obvious.
S The orientation of the sporangia as described, is not always maintained in the
£ mature state; transverse sections of the mature sorus show some latitude in this