the sac must be effected with considerable rapidity. As a rule, in a cone bearing
40 or more ovules, the earlier stages shown in figs. 35, A, D, are to be found only in
two or three. The absence of similar stages from the material collected in 1904 is no
doubt to be accounted for by the long period which elapsed between its collection and
fixation.t A few cases of the last stages of fusion were figured ;{ these all occurred
near the normally fertile region of the sac and, being associated with the close
approximation of the female nuclei in the fertile compartments and the early condition
of the embryo-sac-tubes, were misinterpreted as stages in amitotie division from
which, it was erroneously suggested, the sexual nuclei resulted.§

Frequently the fusion-nucleus undergoes an immediate mitosis (figs. 33%, 350, 36).
Whether it occurs at once or is delayed for a time, the number of chromosomes
is very large and not the same in different nuclei—a fact which is no doubt due to
the unequal numbers of constituents taking part in the fusion. In this division the
new cell-wall is laid down in a cell plate in the usual manner (fig. 36). As a result
of these cell divisions, the lower part of the sac enlarges, passing through the stages
outlined in figs. 89, F-H. This primary growth, which occurs before fertilisation,
ceases at about the stage of 89H. A more considerable secondary growth commences
after fertilisation. The endosperm-tissue, both primary and secondary, is characterised
by a marked irregularity in the size of its cells. This seems to be due to the fact
that when division occurs the daughter-cells are smaller than those from which they
originated, and with successive divisions the difference becomes more marked.
Consequently throughout its life the endosperm consists of cells, large and small and
of intermediate sizes, irregularly intermingled (fig. 88).|| In cases in which fertili-
sation does not take place, the sterile tissue which fills the lower part of the sae