particularly concerned in the extension of the staminal tube of which it continues to
form the lateral shoulders. In all subsequent stages the six stamens continue to grow
at equal rates, their contact relations are normal ; posterior and anterior pairs of
members making the same contact with each other in the median line as they do
with the laterals (figs. 17 and 18: 8, 9, 10); and each differentiates normally, as in
Angiosperm floral development, into an anther-head to which later a filament region is
added (fig. 18: 10, 11). There is not the slightest evidence for regarding the
andreecium as represented by two members (the primordial cushions) producing three
sori; or, for example, for calling it two lateral members each throwing off three
pinnules which are antheriferous segments of a compound sporophyll. The simple
statement that a segmented andreecial region of the axis gives rise to one whorl of
identically equal and normally constructed stamens most clearly expresses all the
facts available. During the differentiation of the andreecium, the prophylls extend,
and soon nearly enclose the greater part of the bud: the posterior perianth-segment
overlaps the anterior at the margin and tip; the collar of the gyncecial cone extends,
and delimits a distinct stalked terminal ovule (fig. 17 : 8, bud 0°68 mm. high; 9, bud
0°76 mm. high). The integument growing up to touch the closely investing perianth,
and spreading out laterally in the free room left between the six stamens, soon
becomes definitely tangentially extended, nearly twice as broad as deep (figs. 16-18 :
11-12) and gives the appearance of two lips with a slit aperture between them.
In this way McNas (1872) initiated the idea of two carpels, taking the lips themselves
as indicative of primordia ; Lignrer and T1son (1912, p. 112) have assumed the same
idea, and “ predominance of the radial carpels” ; though it is not clear why the two
angles would not have done just as well for transverse carpels (as in the theory of
hypothetical transverse perianth members in the ovulate flower), but this would not