same as when the (dry) alveolar air contains only 5°0 per cent. of oxygen at normal
atmospheric pressure ; and it is known that marked symptoms of want of oxygen are
ordinarily produced under such conditions.

It is already known, however, that want of oxygen, whether produced by low
atmospheric pressure or by other means, causes an increase in the volume of air

* Ina recent paper (‘ Journ. of Physiol.,’ XLIL, p. 337, 1911) Livpuarp concludes, from experiments on
three persons, that (1) the sensibility of the respiratory centre to changes in the alveolar CO, pressure is
normally far less than HALDANE and Priestiey find ; and (2) that the excitability of the centre hy CO.
is governed by the alveolar oxygen pressure, in such a way that an increase or diminution of the normal
alveolar oxygen pressure makes the centre more, or less, excitable to a given increase above normal in
the alveolar CO, pressure. He regards HALDANE and PRIESTLEY’s results as probably due to the fact
that the oxygen percentage in the air which they inspired while making their experiments was somewhat
diminished owing to vitiation with expired air. The same line of reasoning and experiment has been
further developed in a still more recent paper by HAsseLpaLcu and Linpuarp (‘Skand. Archiv fiir
Physiol.,’ XXV., p. 361, 1912).

We wish to point out that although the oxygen percentage of the inspired air was diminished in
HALDANE and PriestLEy’s experiments the oxygen of the alveolar air (which is what matters) was not
diminished but slightly increased above normal. ‘The analyses are given in their paper. LiINDHARD’S
conclusions run directly contrary to numerous other experimental results previously obtained. The
method which he used for obtaining samples of the alveolar air seems to us a very doubtful one, and his
normal values for CO, are most suspiciously low. We are also doubtful as to whether he allowed sufficient
time to elapse before the samples were taken when mixtures containing CO. were breathed from a