have to be looked for here. It is from this region of the provisional axial sinus also
that the cavity entering the stalk arises (Plate 24, fig. 30). After the stalk is lost,
the adjacent portions of the internal oral sinus gradually become narrowed down to
their proper size. Probably this last process, which is not completed till well after
metamorphosis, obliterates the anterior coelomic constituents, leaving the whole
circular sinus a derivative of the J.m.c., like the hydroccele and axial sinus. The
point, however, is hardly capable of exact demonstration.

The loss of the sucker and stalk as above described has not been mentioned in any previous
account of the metamorphosis of a free swimming brachiolarian larva (AGassiz, 1; Goro, 33;
WILLEY, 92). Nor does a similar loss seem to occur in the case of the other attaching asterid larve, the
development of which has been described (Asterias muilleri, Sars, 81; Asterina, Lupwic, 52;
MAcBrink, 55; Cribrella, MASTERMAN, 60; Solaster, GeMMILL, 29). If these facts are compared with
the data given on pp. 234, 235, the probable conclusion will emerge that alike among the brachiate and
the abrachiate Asterid larve, there are some forms which lose nothing at metamorphosis, and others in
which particular parts are separated off.

Comparison with Antedon.—A comparison with the Antedon larva suggests itself all the more, since, as
was noted on p. 252 in Asterias the larval anus as well as the larval mouth is on the oral aspect of the
dise at the time when the brachiolarian notch closes up. MacBripr pointed out that though the stalk
projects in Asterina from the oral side of the completed hydroceele ring, and in the crinoid from the
middle of the aboral surface, nevertheless the two stalks are equivalent or homologous structures, both
being derived from a primitive preoral lobe which became modified for attaching purposes (55, p. 392).
We have just seen (pp. 252, 253) that in 4. rubens there is a left coelomic intermediary between stalk cavity
and axial sinus proper. If it were shown that in the development of Antedon, there was a corresponding