some forms the petiole bears four linear, lanceolate leaflets having a distinct midrib
and oblique, anastomosing lateral veins; in other forms are shorter and broader,
somewhat obcuneate leaflets without a midrib and traversed by spreading anastomosing
veins.” Some authors had previously made two species, Sagenopteris Phillipsi and
Sagenopteris cuneata, but Sewarp concluded with Bunsury} that it was reasonable
to suppose that both forms of leaf were borne by the same species. The examination
of the specimens which I have collected leads me also to the conclusion that it is impos-
sible to separate the forms of leaf from one another on the grounds of shape ; almost
every variety can be found in the shape of the leaflets. The midrib may be absent
or may be present at the base of the leaflets, or for a variable distance along them.
If the leaflet lies in the matrix with the lower side uppermost, the midrib will be clearly
seen, but if the upper side only is exposed the midrib may appear much less conspicuous.
Tn such circumstances, the fact that we have only recognised one form-species of leaf
does not rule out the possibility of its original connection with two genera.

But some further considerations have come to light. In the preparation of cuticles
of these leaves it is found that, while some specimens seem to have had a firm texture
and can easily be flaked off the rock (¢f. Pl. 15, fig. 53), other examples were much more
delicate and break up at once into smaller fragments. By the use of Canada Balsam
and a glass slide as a transfer support, as in Wauron’s method, it is possible to remove
these more delicate leaves from the matrix and obtain cuticle preparations from them.
It was found that such preparations showed an epidermal structure of a character
different from those of the stouter leaves. The epidermal cells, instead of showing a
distinct outline and straight walls, were scarcely visible, and on careful examination
are seen to have had sinuous outlines of a totally different character. It is possible