eantes of the lower lumbar nerves consist almost entirely of medullated nerves, and
I do not find any grey rami; most, at any rate, of these medullated fibres are
connected with nerve-cells in the sympathetic ganglia. Further, it will be remem-
bered that Brpper and VoLKMANN described the short ciliary nerves as being free
from interstitial tissue, z.e., from non-medullated fibres, so that the small medullated
nerve-fibres pass through the ciliary ganglion without losing their medulla—a fact
which has been confirmed by several observers, and recently by GASKELL.

Whilst speaking of the loss of medulla by a nerve, there is angther point it is, perhaps, worth while to
mention, It is very commonly assumed that sympathetic nerve-fibres, after being connected with nerve-
cells in any one sympathetic ganglion, pass on and are again connected with nerve cells in one or more
sympathetic ganglia, This view has been taken for various reasons, and, amongst others, because
ganglion cells are found in the course of non-medullated fibres. The real explanation of this fact is, I think,
that the nerves sometimes lose their medulla a considerable distance before they become connected with
nerve-cells. This explanation receives some confirmation from what I have said above as to the
variability in the medullation of the fibres of the grey rami. The experiments I have published upon
the connection of nerve-fibres with nerve-cells, based upon the action of nicotin, give, I think, strong
ground for concluding that any one sympathetic nerve-fibre passes into a nerve-cell in one sympathetic
ganglion only.

It is sometimes said that medullated fibres cease in the lower lumbar, or in the upper sacral region, I
do not find this to be so in either the Dog, Cat, or Rabbit. In the cases I have examined, a few
medullated fibres were found down to the last sympathetic ganglion ; in the Dog there are a considerable
number above the Ist. sacral ganglion. From the IInd. sacral ganglion downwards, there are but few
in all three animals, but fewest in the Rabbit. Thus, in one case, the sympathetic between the IInd.