increasing farther wp, as may be seen by the succeeding Photos. 38 and 39. Photo. 37
comes from just below No. 11, and shows the branch that comes off at this level,
while Photo. 39 is from the region just above No. 11. These photographs indicate that
the resin canals also become gradually grouped into two series, and that these are associated
with the two rings. In fact, the two series become so distinct, both in tangential and
radial position (Photo. 38), that one suspects that they have different causes. The inner
one is more traumatic in appearance and the reason is apparent a few sections farther on.
Photo. 39 shows a branch (No. 1) just above the region where the series was most dense
in Photo. 38. The pith of this branch does not extend any farther than is shown in Photo.
40, which is at a higher magnification to illustrate the details, i.¢., just to the level of the
inner series of canals, as the extent of its black pith indicates. It was broken off here,
and has been so completely covered by filling-in tissue that there is scarcely any evidence
of a disturbance of the tissues beyond this year. In fact, the filling-in tissue becomes
fairly normal in appearance in the later-formed wood of its own year. The condition
here may be contrasted with that in the normal branch shown in Photo. 37. Here, in
following the series of sections, which are in upward sequence, the pith of the branch
gets larger as it progresses farther and farther from that of the main stem, the figure
showing it about half-way out. As the broken branch (No. 1) has such a limited growth,
it must have been broken off when it was very young, possibly when it was not far advanced
from the bud stage. If the canals of this inner series are followed in their upward course
through the subsequent photographs of this and the next plate, it will be seen that they
become gradually scattered and reduced in number until finally there are only five of
them left. (Photo. 52.)

Photo. 38 or 39 (Plate 11) is a good starting point for a consideration of the outer series,