margin being subtruncate and slightly gaping. The siphons are short—almost sessile—
and the inhalant opening is much larger than the exhalant (see text-fig. 4, 7. and e.), both
being surrounded by a common ring of long, slightly tapering tentacles (text-figs. 3 and
4, d. and ¢.) consisting of an unpaired dorsal tentacle (text-fig. 4, d.) and seven pairs of
tentacles round the lateral and ventral margins of the inhalant siphon. The opening
of the inhalant siphon into the infra-septal cavity (V.) is guarded by a large muscular
valve (v.). The surface of the mantle is excessively thin as in the Cuspidariide, the ventral
margins (me.) alone are thick and are free from one another for the entire length of the
body from the anterior adductor (a.a.) to the siphons. The foot (f.) is long and thin and
possesses a byssus groove on the posterior surface (see text-fig. 7, b.). It has two retractor
muscles, an anterior (a.r.) and a posterior retractor (p.r.) which are attached to the shell
in the same relative positions as in Cuspidaria rostrata. The palps are broader and
larger than those of the Cuspidariide, a fact which has been noted by all observers, the
anterior pair (a.p.) being especially long and, unlike the anterior palps of the Cuspidariidee,
being free from the anterior adductor (see also text-fig. 7). The posterior pair (p.p.)
are united to one another in the middle line and do not extend back on either side of the
foot as in Cuspidaria. The degree to which the mouth (m.) is guarded and obscured by
the palps is seen best in text-fig. 7 which was drawn from life. The adductor muscles
(aa. and p.a.) oceupy the same relative positions as in Cuspidaria rostrata but are smaller,
and the posterior adductor is round and not oval in cross-section. The visceral mass
occupies the bulk of the supra-septal cavity (D.), the dorsally situated ovary (ov.) and
the more posterior and ventral testis (¢e.) being both well developed (like all the Septi-
branchs, Poromya is hermaphrodite). Lying above the cesophagus (0.) are the cerebral
ganglia (c.g.).
