in maintaining a circulation of water through the mantle cavity, being assisted in this
by the vestiges of the gill ciliation in the lateral cilia, on the filaments of the branchial
sieve in Poromya, and in the cilia around the pores in Cuspidaria. But it also, by its
sudden movements, draws in large masses of food, which the continuous, but slowly
moving, current created by the gill cilia could never do. The large food masses introduced
into the infra-septal cavity in this manner are pushed into the mouth by the small, but
very muscular, labial palps. The exceptionally highly developed ciliary mechanism
on the ridged palps of the other Lamellibranchs, which acts by rigorously sorting the
particles passed on to it from the gills, rejecting the larger particles and passing the
smaller ones into the mouth (for details see WALLENGREN (1905) and Yonex (1923,
19268) ), has been lost, the few remaining cilia being concerned exclusively with the
rejection of fine particles which might impede the working of the gut. That this ciliation
is of importance is shown by the fact that these ciliated tracts are retained, even though
the palps, as in the case of the posterior pair in C. obesa, have been lost. A similar
réle is played by the remaining cilia in the mantle cavity, on the foot and on the ventral
margins of the mantle. The survival of these cilia and no others is clearly correlated
with the danger which both the Septibranchs and the other Lamellibranchs face in
common, that of being silted up by fine particles of mud or sand. Mucous glands, as
universal as cilia in the other Lamellibranchs, are confined to the ciliated regions in the
Septibranchs.

The foregut of the Septibranchs is totally unlike that of the Lamellibranchs which feed
on fine particles. Although the cesophagus possesses cilia, these are clearly of little
importance, food being carried along by the peristaltic movements of the thick surround-
ing muscle, so conspicuously absent in the other Lamellibranchs. The stomach is even