chord in the posterior occipital region, where it forms the basis of the lig. apicis dentis,
is an important fact which I have not encountered in the literature.

Nucleus Pulposus.—The early work bearing upon the origin of the nucleus pulposus
is considerable, but also confusing. The evidence brought to light was most unsatis-
factory and it failed to give ground for any settled opinion. . It was thought that the
notochord played some part in the formation of this structure, although the controversy
entered into by LuscuKa, R. Vircnow, Kéniiker, Rosin, Dursy, Lowe and Lesoucg
was centred on the part played by the intervertebral disc, rather than that played by the
notochord. It was generally held that the nucleus pulposus arises by liquefaction of
the tissue of the disc and that the notochord may or may not contribute to its formation.
Gapow (1895) appreciated the confusion and maintained that either such liquefaction
occurs or that the notochordal expansion continues to grow, or that both these facts hold
good. WuU..LIAMs (1908) gave what is probably the most correct account and main-
tained that the notochord loses its cellular nature and becomes syncytial, vacuoles
filled with a mucin-like substance appearing in its cytoplasm. Later, the notochordal
tissue comes to resemble cartilage, and persists in the region of the intervertebral disc
as the nucleus pulposus. The diverse opinions on the question of the part played by
the notochord or the disc, or both these structures, in the formation of the nucleus
pulposus suggest that the mode of formation is not the same in all mammals. But it is
interesting to find that in Mus, the notochordal tissue is clearly distinct and separate
from the tissue of the intervertebral disc during all stages. The development of the
notochord closely follows that of the corresponding structure in the pig, as described by
Witiiams. The cytomorphosis of its cells occurs when chondrification is fairly well
advanced (9-0 mm. stage) and it is accompanied by an increased activity of the nuclei