there is no case in which an intrathalamic lesion localised to the pars posterior of the
lateral nucleus was produced. In one case (rat Th. 7), the element was involved by the
lesion, and the Marchi sections suggest that it is connected with the lower and anterior
part of the area striata and with a strip of cortex immediately below and in front of this
area. This conclusion accords with the appearance indicated in Weigert sections of
normal material. Horizontal sections of the brain of lower mammals show cortical
fibres leaving the medial aspect of the pars posterior of the lateral nucleus and passing
forwards immediately medial to the optic radiations which leave the lateral geniculate
body. Entering the internal capsule, they turn laterally in front of the optic radiations,
and appear to be distributed to the cortex just anterior to the area striata. The experi-
ments were not adequate for the determination of the corticifugal connections of the pars
posterior. The investigation of the connections of this element is rendered difficult by
the fact that it is traversed by fibres of passage—cortico-tectal fibres and optic tract
fibres. Marchi material of the rat’s brain after enucleation of one eye shows that while
many of the optic tract fibres of retinal origin penetrate the pars posterior on their way
to the anterior colliculus, none appear to terminate in it (CLARK, 1931).

Nucleus dorso-medialis—The dorso-medial nucleus is the equivalent of the “ medial
nucleus * of human descriptive anatomy, and of the nucleus medialis dorsalis of recent
authors. It has by many been regarded as a “ paleothalamic” centre and classed
among the “ medial” group of nuclei which are credited with a great phylogenetic age.
T have elsewhere (CLARK, 1932) pointed out that the dorso-medial nucleus is in reality
one of the more recently developed elements of the thalamus, that it belongs to the
upper functional levels of the thalamus, and that it reaches its most pronounced develop-
ment in Man. On these grounds, it is desirable that the nucleus should not be included