favourable, while the posterior end never did. The varying results obtained with
middle thirds would then depend solely on whether they extended far enough anteriorly
to include any of the presumptive medullary material. There is, however, another
factor to be considered. These grafts were prepared primarily for the purpose of testing
the inducing capacities of the grafted tissue, and in several cases, when the graft structures
could not be seen after a day’s cultivation, the culture was discarded and not sectioned.
In such cases it is very probable that the graft had formed mesoderm only, since neural
tissue is usually easily seen in inspection of the culture. While it is almost certain
that an examination of these cultures would not have altered the statistical fact that
the anterior end of the primitive streak forms neural tissue more often than the posterior
end, it might very well have made impossible the absolute statement that the anterior
end always forms such tissue. The possibility of the anterior end not developing neural
tissue is suggested by specimen 442 ; here there is no doubt as to the fact that no nervous
tissue is present, but there is the unusual circumstance that the graft was considerably
damaged during the operation. We must admit then, that while grafted pieces of
the anterior end of the primitive streak usually self-differentiate, giving some neural
tissue, this self-differentiating capacity may on occasion remain in abeyance. When
this is so, the graft may yield mesoderm which is fairly harmonious with the body of
the host (e.g., 442). We do not yet know, however, whether the host can force a grafted
piece to develop more or less harmoniously with itself, when the self-differentiating
capacity of the graft has not previously been checked by some such influence as the
damage which was done to 442. The enormous range of conditions found in grafts of
the middle parts of the primitive streak does, however, strongly suggest some influence
of the host on the graft. Some of the grafts show a considerable quantity of neural
material, and appear very like grafts of the anterior primitive streak. But in 518