photosynthesis is or is not likely to be relatively small, an approximate calculation may
be made as to the maximum thickness of diatom cells traversed by a light-ray in passing
through 10 m. of water. Measurements (1923) of the annual phosphate consumption
have shown that 30 mg. per m°, reckoned as pentoxide, is used up by the phytoplankton
annually and regenerated during winter. From counts made on a pure culture of
Nitzschia closterium it was ascertained that complete exhaustion of the 30 mg. per m*
produced 27 diatoms per cubic millimetre, or 27 x 10® per litre. Taking the average
length of the Nitzschia cell, excluding the horns, as 30y and the width as 8u, the area
exposed by the given number comes to 64-8 cm.* in the litre volume of the column
10 m. by 1 em? Obviously the area is covered 65 times over. Taking the thickness
of the cells as 4u, the total average thickness traversed by the beam is 0-25 mm. Since
on the average a ray passes through 65 cells in 10 metres, screening is bound to occur,
but this does not affect the above argument in any way. The fact that the path of the
ray is not vertical will, of course, increase the thickness traversed. Obviously the number
of cells taken, 27 million per litre, is a major limit. Ordinarily there might be only one-
tenth as many, though LonMaNnn has reported as many as 77-8 million per litre of
Skeletonema costatum found at Kiel, where probably the water was initially richer in
phosphate than in the English Channel. Marsuatt and Orr (1930) also report this
diatom as occurring in Loch Striven in quantities of from 5 x 108 chains per litre early
in the spring outburst, up to 25 x 10° at its height. Taking 10 cells per chain, and
average values for the diameter and thickness of the disc-shaped cells as 12u and 6,
respectively, the total area covered by the cells when at their maximum number comes
to 18 cm. when the filaments are viewed sideways. Thus, for this diatom the light
would have to traverse, on an average, 18 cells, the depth being the diameter, 12, so
the total thickness works out as 0-22 mm., which is probably a fortuitously close