eventually be far removed from the mouth is, of course, borne out by subsequent work,
although it occurs in a way he could scarcely suspect. Crapariipr, in September, 1859,
collected a Mitraria in Lamlash Bay, and briefly described it (1860). It was evidently
the since frequently observed autumnal form of the Clyde (see p. 322). He did not use
the term “ Mitraria,” and was apparently unaware of Minuer’s work. He, too,
thought it belonged to some Annelid. ScHNeErpER (1869), nine years later, obtained
at Nizza a Mitraria which metamorphosed ina dish while he searched vainly for another.
He thought the worm produced was a Gephyrean with a terminal anus: his figure of
it has some resemblance to an abnormally metamorphosed Owenia worm. He noticed
the cast-off provisional bristles, and some fragments of tissue which were probably
bits of the prototroch. His incorrect theory of the metamorphosis is really no more
remarkable than the actual truth. He had, however, been forestalled in his observation
of the metamorphosis by Kovatewsky, who in 1867 had established the fact that
Mitraria changes into a Polychete, but had unfortunately only communicated his
results verbally to Mrrscuntkorr. The latter refers to them in his paper published in
1871, a paper that has remained the most important account of the development of
Mitraria up to the present time. He described and figured two species obtained at
Spezia in May and June: both had needle-shaped bristles, and the first he considered
to be identical with Mitier’s Trieste larva. He got late stages of it, but none meta-
morphosed. The prototroch was not sinuous, as was the case with his second species.
The latter metamorphosed, and, judging from his description and figures, was very
probably Owenia fusiformis. His account is fairly accurate as far as it goes, and his
figures quite good, especially when it is considered that he lacked the optical refinements
and section-cutting methods of to-day. He saw the invagination of the trunk rudiment
between anus and mouth, although he goes a little astray in believing the trunk in the