in all cupular structures, for sometimes the specimen has probably shed its seeds before
preservation, while in others they may have aborted, but it seems clear that these
structures are all of the same type. The more complete specimens show a main axis
often bearing a pair of bracts near the base and giving off branches right and left in one
plane. These branches appear at first sight like the pinne of a sporophyll, but they are
generally seen to arise in the axils of bracts. They either fork at their apex into equal
halves, or bear a terminal cupule, in some species they bear a pair of bract-like
structures which will be termed bracteoles, and they often give rise to further branches
lying in the same plane, which are not subtended by bracts and which may have an
opposite or alternate arrangement. These ultimate divisions terminate in cupules.
The complete structure must then be described as an inflorescence, but it resembles
a sporophyll both in the restriction of the lateral branches and appendages to one
plane, and also in the fact that the epidermal cells of the axis, as indicated by the
cuticle preparations, often differ on the two sides. The exact structure of the cupules
is difficult to determine. Nearly all the specimens have been compressed and flattened
out in the plane of the branching and they appear to have been basin-shaped, cam-
panulate, or urceolate structures springing from the ultimate branches or pedicels
with their mouths or openings facing the base of the inflorescence. In some specimens
there are indications of one or two lateral clefts, obscured owing to the flattening,
but which probably divided the cupule into two valve-like parts. Each cupule
apparently contained one seed, whose mode of attachment is not known. When
young the micropyle projected from the opening of the cupule, it was bifid and
displayed a characteristic lateral curvature which no doubt facilitated pollination.
The mature seeds projected farther from the cupules, they were probably ovoid
or ellipsoidal structures generally about 5 mm. long. They were probably flattened