which the lower polar region of the blastocyst insinuates itself. The remainder of the
blastocyst gradually follows, the gap at the same time widening and so eventually it
disappears beneath the surface and becomes completely imbedded, the margins of the
gap through which it passed gradually closing in to complete the uterine epithelium
over it. During implantation, the blastocyst is growing in size and it simply makes
room for itself in the soft stroma tissue, no destruction of the latter taking place.

But there is one very obvious difference in the details of implantation in Man and
Cavia. Whereas in the latter the lower, or anti-embryonal pole, constitutes the implan-
tation pole and is the first part to enter the endometrium, it is a very interesting and
significant fact that, just as the first attachment of the Pithecoid blastocyst is effected
by the trophoblast over the embryonal pole, so in the human blastocyst (¢f. TEACHER,
*24) that pole is normally the first to enter, as is shown by the fact that in the great
majority of the early human blastocysts which have been examined, the embryo is
attached to the chorion of the deep wall of the vesicle, opposite or nearly opposite
the site of entry, as is seen very clearly in Pl. 20, fig. 112, which I owe to the kindness
of my colleague, Dr. J. Fuorian. The figure represents a section through the decidual
swelling in which lies imbedded an early blastocyst (Bi I, Furortan, ’28, b, fig. 1).
The embryonal primordium is attached to the chorion forming the deep wall or floor
of the exoceelomic blastocyst cavity, whilst at the surface of the swelling, almost
opposite the embryonal primordium, the point of entry of the blastocyst is marked by
a plug of syncytiotrophoblast (op.tr.), the so-called “ Verschluss- oder Ektoderm-
pfropf,” TmacHER’s operculum deciduae. The reason for this precise and almost
constant mode of entry is not far to seek, since as the result of it the embryo comes
to lie in immediate proximity to the site of formation of the definitive placenta and it