though in one section there is an indication of its extension upwards towards what
seems to be the posterior margin of the shield-ectoderm. What this blastocyst does
clearly demonstrate, however, is that the exoccelomic mesoderm is formed before
there is any definite indication of a primitive streak thickening in the shield-ectoderm.
It will probably be agreed that the most likely source of origin of that mesoderm is
from the said ectoderm, but whether it arises as a localised proliferation from its postero-
median margin as Husrecut inferred or as a more diffuse proliferation, must for the
time being remain undecided, though from what I have seen of the early development
of the mesoderm in the Pithecoids, I am inclined to believe that the former alternative
will turn out to be the correct one.

If we pass now to the slightly later blastocysts represented by Tarsius 86 and 235,
certain noteworthy facts are brought to light. Both blastocysts are of about the same
size (+ 0°5 mm. in diam., shield-ectoderm in 86, 0-2 mm. in diam.; in 235, 0-235 mm.
in diam.), blastocyst 86 being slightly the earlier of the two. An obliquely longitudinal
section of the embryonal area and the yolk-sac of blastocyst 86 is figured by HuBREcHT
(fig. 47, Taf. VIT of his ’02 paper and fig. 49, Pl. I of his ‘09 paper) and is reproduced here
as fig. 5a, Pl. 21. It is specially referred to as showing how the exoccelomic mesoderm
arises by proliferation from the extreme hinder margin of the shield-ectoderm, just at
its junction with the trophoblast. If fig. 5a be examined (¢f. our text-fig. 7 which
is based on it), it will be seen that the exoccelomic mesoderm is connected with the
posterior margin of the shield-ectoderm by what appears as a short stalk-like cord or
band of mesoderm (text-fig. 7, ¢.st.) and that the portion of the shield-ectoderm situated
immediately in front of its junction with the mesoderm is thickened and contains
numerous nuclei irregularly arranged and thus contrasts with the more extensive