pair of forceps were introduced into the cut to insure that the separation was complete. Next day,
twenty hours after operation, the animal was tested. It was sitting up, quite lively, and had apparently
perfectly recovered, with the exception of paralysis of the left limb. I was assisted in testing this
animal by Mr. L. E. Hitt, There was complete paralysis of the left limb. Immediately after
the operation it had been noticed that the left foot was swollen, red, and hotter to feel than the
right. This was still apparent, but not so markedly. The unequal action of the abdominal muscles
noticed immediately after the operation, was not so apparent. Sensation was tested in the following
ways. The animal’s head was turned aside, and its attention attracted by Mr. Hix1 while 1 touched the
plantar surface of the foot with a metal rod previously dipped in hot water. It was noticed that
the animal felt on both sides, On the right side (non-paralyzed) it responded to the test, and localized
the spot excited, putting the hand of the same side down and scratching the place. On the paralyzed
(left) side the animal remained unconscious of the stimulation longer, but when it did respond, seemed
to be more agitated. This may be explained by the fact that the longer duration of the stimulus
produced greater effect.

When the toes of the right foot were dipped into hot water they were quickly withdrawn; when the
toes of the left side were dipped into the same a struggle occurred, but on both sides the response of the
stimulus was delayed, ‘ested by pricking, the animal responded on both sides; the place excited was
localized on the non-paralyzed side by the animal scratching the part with its hand. Temperature, left
popliteal space, 96-2; right, 98; left plantar surface, 94; right ditto, 87°5.

3rd day.—Sensibility tested by electricity. Animal gave evidence of feeling on both sides. Knee
jerks well marked on both sides.

14th day.—During the interval sensation remained on both sides ; animal can now localize on the left