With regard to this question of hypereesthesia after hemisection of the spinal cord
in animals there is a great divergence of opinion. It has not been obtained by all
experimenters. Fopira was the first to observe this condition, but he did not
invariably find it present. Tirck and Brown-S&Quarp also found it, and the latter
considers it an invariable effect of hemisection. Werss does not describe this con-
dition, nor did Ferrier notice it in his experiment upon the Monkey. I have noticed
it twice. It is looked upon by BRown-Skquarp and his followers as a proof of the
sensory decussation in the cord, especially when taken in conjunction with the fact
that they state that there is anesthesia in the opposite side of the body behind the
lesion. Lupwic and WoroscuiLorr and Martinorrr explain the hypereesthesia by
the removal of influence of certain inhibitory fibres ; but Ferrer statest that the
hyperesthesia on the side of lesion is only a sign by contrast of the diminished
sensibility on the other side, and as a matter of fact ceases when the other lateral
column is similarly divided, and both legs are reduced to the same level of sensibility.

This, however, is not strictly true, because Martinorri made a bilateral injury of a

* [M. Vutrran has found the sensory troubles following hemisection different in different kinds of
animals. In the Dog, for example, he found a hyperesthesia in the posterior limb on the side of
the hemisection; he believes this to be due to a hyperexcitability produced in the elements of the
spinal cord behind the lesion, and only on the side corresponding to it. When it is unilateral,
M. Vutrian considers the diminution of sensibility on the opposite side as a sort of effect of the hyper-
wsthesia. The slight difference of sensibility that he has found from experiment, appears to him to
prove that the sensory impulses do not completely decussate in the spinal cord in Mammalia. M. Vupran
considers the grey matter of the spinal cord as the principal conductor of sensory impressions. He does