cusp. It is not connected to the cusp and it is not encapsulated. It is composed of a
mass of horny epithelial cells with many collections of keratin granules apparent. The
second nodule, “dx,” (fig. 68, Plate 41), is just lateral to and above the tip of the
postero-medial cusp, embedded deeply in the stellate reticulum. The core of horny
cells is encapsulated by an aggregation of cells of the reticulum. It is not connected
to the cusp at this stage, but its precursor was seen to be closely associated with the
cusp in H.J. The third nodule, “dx,” (fig. 64, Plate 41), seems to be an adventitious
epithelial body, since no similar structure has been seen in any other specimen in this
situation. It appears as a bud from the deep aspect of the mouth epithelium which
separates itself from the latter and forms a typical epithelial nodule between the
epithelium of the mouth and the surface of the enamel organ. There is a core of horny
cells more or less concentrically arranged and surrounded by a deeply staining capsule
of undifferentiated epithelial cells: a structure, in fact, remarkably like what one would
expect to find at a rather earlier stage in the formation of “‘dx,”. The nodule ‘‘dx,”’ is
peculiar, not only in having no relationship to the developing cusps, but also by being
considerably external to the whole enamel organ.

The lower tooth ‘“‘y” has a pointed antero-lateral cusp whose apex bends medially.
There is a constriction in the middle of the tooth, and a postero-lateral cusp is becoming
prominent though it is still rather short and rounded. The medial cingulum is un-
differentiated. Only the tip of the antero-lateral cusp is calcified. There is a single
epithelial body, ‘‘dy,’’, just medial to and above the antero-lateral cusp. It lies on the
deep aspect of the external enamel epithelium and bulges it outwards, thus contrasting
with the position it occupied in H.J. It is formed of a condensation of cells of the
stellate reticulum with some keratinized cells in the middle. A dark band of cells