cyanins may be partially or almost completely suppressed by the action of an inhibiting
factor. If the plants in Table I1c are regarded as analogues of Anchusa azurea, etc.,
then not only are the results reconcilable with one another, but at the same time they
cease to contradict the inference that scheme (C) is correct. It might be objected
that all the mixtures are similarly due to inhibition, but if this is so we are faced with
contradictory conclusions from Tables IIa and IIs and with the reductio ad absurdum
that certain of the mixtures in Table I are due to inhibited demethylation rather
than incomplete methylation.* Hence the only way in which the great majority of
the above results can be correlated is on a basis which leads to the conclusion that
cyanidin is the anthocyanidin whose synthesis requires the least number of steps.
In the light of this, it is significant that there is not a single case, which could be
legitimately included, where mixtures of anthocyanins based on pelargonidin and
delphinidin have been found, and this fact gives strong support to our arguments.
Only species and varieties of species have been included in the lists given in this
paper. Anything which is known to arise from species hybridization, or whose origin
is in doubt, has been omitted, since it is known that hybridization may give rise to
anomalous results. There are two cases in which malvidin-pelargonidin mixtures have
been found, namely, forms of Pelargonium zonale and Primula sinensis. The zonal pelar-
goniums Henry Jacoby and Madame de Monier are known to be hybrids, and all
Pelargonium spp. examined contain either pure malvidin or pelargonidin glycosides.
Primula sinensis, on the other hand, has never been artificially hybridized with any
other species, and many of its varieties contain pure anthocyanins. However, a recent
mutant known as Dazzler gives rise to mixtures of pelargonidin and malvidin 3-mono-
sides in certain of its progeny (Scott-Moncrieff 1936). This is easily explained, as
breeding results show that the Dazzler mutation produces pelargonidin quite inde-