of both cytoplasm and nucleus being increased many times, and the cell limits were clearly
distinct even in the stratum granulosum. This clarity of the cell limits resulted in the
abnormal prominence of the spiny cell connexions in the stratum spinosum. Mitotic
activity increased to a rate far in excess of the normal pro-oestrous maximum. In the old
wound edges of the epidermis it affected the stratum germinativum and, in a lesser degree,
the stratum spinosum, and in the new epidermis beneath the scab, once continuity was
established, it affected all the cells. Cell division was now also active in the underlying
dermis and hypodermis in which, as has been shown, it is normally rare. Mitoses were
commonly seen in the connective tissue cells and in the endothelial cells lining the newly
forming capillaries, and they were even present, although less frequently, in the striped
muscle of the panniculus carnosus, a region which, in this respect, is normally entirely
inert. In addition, an unusually high rate of cell division was present in any closely adjacent
hair follicles and sebaceous glands, and, in fact, with the apparent exception of the leuco-
cytes, all cell types lying within a radius of about 0-5 mm. of the wound were stimulated to
divide, the effect dying away very rapidly at greater distances.

After the fourth day, with healing almost complete, the scab began to peel off, and when
this had happened the line of the wound on the skin was rapidly obscured. In section,
however, it was seen that the epidermis was still about four or five times thicker than
normal, partly due to the cells remaining large in size and partly to their greatly increased
numbers following the abnormally high rate of division. Mitotic activity was now rapidly
waning, but occasionally cells in division were still to be found in the dermis and hypo-
dermis. This same general picture was seen after five, six, and seven days.

A detailed study was made, in relation to the oestrous cycle, of the mitotic activity