Unfortunately, it is at present difficult to gain any clear impression of their nature. If it
were not for the observations on growth in pathological conditions, especially those on
wound healing, it could be argued that the effects observed were merely due to some
exhaustion following cell division, so that the most active tissues were those which recovered
most rapidly after each wave of mitotic activity. However, in the proximity of wounds it
has been found, first, that cell inertia is eliminated even in such normally inactive tissues
as dermis and striped muscle, and secondly, that the unusually high rate of cell division
which ensues continues without the usual check from the mitosis depressor. It follows that
cells are capable of a considerably higher rate of cell division than they normally develop,
and also that they are capable of maintaining this great activity unchecked over long
periods. Indeed, in cancerous growths it appears that the highest rate of mitotic activity
may be continued indefinitely. Exhaustion, therefore, cannot be considered the basis of
regulation, and, in fact, it would appear peculiar if such a potentially dangerous process
as cell division was not subject to some rigid control of a more positive nature. It is possible
that mitosis regulation is achieved by the production of antihormone substances for it has
been suggested that every hormone may have a controlling inhibitor. Already, for instance,
antigonadotrophic, antithyrotrophic, and antithyroid hormones are known (see reviews
by Collip, Selye & Thomson 1940; Thompson 1941). It has been shown that continued
treatment with oestrogens inhibits growth in such organs as the skin (Hooker & Pfeiffer
1943), and even the mammary gland (Gardner 1941), as would be expected if an anti-
hormone had been produced in quantity, but it has so far proved impossible to isolate such
a substance. However, the greatest difficulty in accepting this view of the nature of the
normal mitosis regulating forces is that the various body tissues react to oestrogen stimula-
tion quite independently of each other, and it is difficult to believe that one antihormone
substance could be capable of producing such a complex effect. It is also important to