attachment of the British birds to their nesting sites and nesting localities is never broken.
The only time in the life of the British starling when the gonads regress sufficiently to allow
a breaking of this attachment appears to be in the first summer and autumn. A certain
amount of wandering by the young birds is then observed. It is, however, possible that,
after a bird’s reproductive life is over, the gonads may again regress sufficiently to allow
that bird to wander away from its nesting area. The regression of the gonads of the adult
Continental starlings after the breeding season appears normally to be carried so far that
the attachment to the nesting sites is broken, and the birds are released for the southward
migration. In late winter and spring, when the gonads grow once more, the birds are
induced to return to their nesting areas. Applied to birds in general, this theory, which is
certainly oversimplified, means that the basis of the autumn southward migration is
negative (the absence of a stimulus), and that of the spring northward migration is positive
(the renewal of the stimulus). This theory is able to explain several peculiar facts. It has
frequently been reported (see reviews by Rollin 1932 and Nice 1933) that in many species
of birds the adult males regularly winter to the north of the adult females which, in turn,
may winter to the north of the young birds. Much more evidence is needed on these points
before detailed statements can be made, but in the case of the chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs L.)
and the song thrush (Turdus philomelos Brehm) in Switzerland, and in that of the Mississippi
song sparrow (Melospiza melodia beata Bangs) and the Cabanis woodpecker (Dryobates
villosus hyloscopus Cabanis & Heine) in North America, it seems fairly certain that the
females normally travel farther south in autumn than do the males. It seems probable that
testes often do not regress relatively so far as ovaries, and that they also begin to grow earlier
and faster in the late winter months. There is evidence that in such a bird as the sparrow
(Passer domesticus L.) a much greater stimulation from the anterior pituitary gland is neces-
sary to activate the ovaries than is required to activate the testes (Kirschbaum, Pfeiffer,