This surprisingly inaccurate statement is in contrast to the really accurate transverse section of the
rostral valve which he figures, and of which I have already spoken. He calls a heart such, although,
as he states, it has no muscular walls and is contracted and expanded by movements of neighbouring
parts of the body. Worse still, his division of the heart into auricle and ventricle is not permissible
morphologically; such a division is unknown in the Arthropoda. His auricle is the mid-dorsal space
above the stomach wall, while the ventricle is the median rostral sinus. The valve between the
two is the thin median strand of tissue running from the stomach wall to the hinder margin of
the pleats (figure 12) together with the parenchymatous sheets that I mention later (p. 117 and
figure 13).

Nussbaum’s paper is very difficult to follow, but it seems that he considers a system of arteries as
radiating from his ventricle, that is, the rostral sinus, up the cirri. Actually there is no such connexion
and his cirrus vessels which he considers afferent are in fact efferent.

Nussbaum dealt with the musculature at great length. Unfortunately, it is usually impossible to
follow his detailed descriptions. None of his figures of the musculature dissected out are labelled as to
orientation, and as the muscles have been reflected on dissection, this is of critical importance.
However, he states clearly (p. 21) that a series of muscles runs from the rostrum to the body surface
which ‘connects the oral cone to the heart’. This surface I take to be the soft flexible body wall
between the oral cone and the adductor muscle. He states that these bring about the closure of the
shell, or ‘compress in various directions the loose tissue which lies between the oesophagus and the
adductor scutorum’. His first suggested function is clearly impossible, but the second is correct.
He did not, however, see the significance of these muscles, for they actually form the contractile part
of what I describe later as the blood pump (p. 117).
