will cause serious deterioration in the appreciation of fine detail. But it is well known that
the detailed perception of the human eye can only be adequately explained on the hypo-
thesis that each separate receptor is connected to its own nerve fibre; which seems to point
to the human fovea containing few, if any, dominators of the type found by Granit in
the cat.

The same idea is suggested by the results of experiments in which a small point source of
white light was caused to explore in detail a small area near the centre of the fovea. The
test source was moved in horizontal lines, each line being approximately 1 cone unit from
the last. An area of approximately 20 cone units each way was investigated, that is, about
400 in all. At no point in this area was any evidence obtained for the interconnexion of
retinal receptors, as might be indicated by the test source appearing to increase in size, or
by it appearing to remain stationary. Therefore, if in fact dominators composed of three or
more modulators are present in the retina, either they are excluded from the foveal centre
or in some way their presence is masked by some, at present unknown, factor. There is,
however, a further possibility, namely, that dominators do not consist of physiological units
produced by the linking of two red, one green and one blue modulator; but that they are
receptors which, under the action of the antichromatic responses, have been deprived of
colour vision, and are giving what has been called in earlier Parts of this paper, ‘colourless
foveal vision’. This view is substantiated by the experiment described above, in which a
small white test source was caused to move over the surface of the fovea. At no point
during this experiment was it seen to undergo a change of colour, such as might have been
expected if it had fallen on a modulator with a sharp spectral response. Moreover, two
such sources adjusted in position so that there was a clear space between their images,
apparently equal to the diameter of the images themselves, were found to be separated by