sistence of the scotoma, the observer looks at a test object with the affected eye he clearly
sees the scotoma lying close to the test object. If, under these conditions, his acuity be
measured it will be found to be a fraction only of his normal acuity, but that vision is quite
good enough for normal purposes. According to the cluster hypothesis, what has taken
place is that the cluster of cones, usually employed for fixation because of their high acuity,
having been temporarily put out of action by the arc light, a neighbouring cluster, not so
acute as the first, has taken on the function of fixation.

This argument raises an interesting point, namely, the nature of the attribute which
causes the selection of a particular retinal area to act as the fixation point. It would not be
unreasonable to expect that this point would lie on the optic axis of the lens system of the
eye because the definition here would probably be higher than it is elsewhere. But such an
expectation is contrary to the facts. The fixation point is usually situated to the temporal
side of the axial point, but varies greatly in position in different people. Tscherning (1904)
put the matter as follows: ‘Calling the imaginary line which joins the posterior nodal point
with the fixation point “the fixation axis” then this line makes with the optic axis the angle
alpha which varies usually from 4 to 7° horizontally, and from 2 to 3° vertically’ (see
Part VII). From these angles we can readily calculate the displacement of the fixation
point from the axial point. On the assumption, made previously, that the posterior nodal
distance of the eye is 16-81 mm., the fixation point is found to be from 1-13 to 1:99 mm.
outwards, and from 0:56 to 0:85 mm. downwards from the axial point. It is clear then that
the statement made above is correct, namely, that the fixation point varies in position in
different subjects. This raises the question as to the cause of one particular point being
selected for purposes of fixation rather than another point. There is little doubt that there
is a marked fall in acuity as soon as the fixation point is left, but there is no justification