
system. The presence of a large and distinctive apical cell in leptosporangiate ferns, for
example, must, in some way, be due to forces present in the growing point; and so, also, for
the layered apex in flowering plants. Such ideas are in accordance with the classical view
of de Bary that the plant or organ determines the tissue pattern; or, in the words of D’Arcy
Thompson (1942), the growing-point might be regarded as ‘a comprehensive field of force
...somehow shaping the whole organism independently of the number, magnitude and
form of the individual cells’, the formation of the apical cell being a particular and necessary
expression of this force in certain plants. Wilson (1925), too, has said that ‘the physiological
anatomy of the individual cell falls into the background. ..and the apparently composite
character which the multicellular organism may exhibit is owing to a secondary distribution
of its energies among local centres of action’. Earlier, both Hofmeister and Sachs had
maintained that organ growth in plants is the primary fact and cell formation only of
secondary significance, while Whitman (1893), supporting this view, pointed out that ‘for
the same purpose’, e.g. the formation of an organ, one, several, or many cells may be used.
The truth of this statement becomes apparent when the apices of different classes of vascular
plants are compared. But while it may be maintained that the apex functions as a whole,
the terminal apical meristem, with its initial cells or layer of cells, is indispensable to the
harmonious and orderly (i.e. the ‘normal’) development of the axis and its appendages.

The arguments outlined above suggest that the differences between the shoot apices in
seed plants and ferns may not be so great as is sometimes thought; there is, apparently,
a common pattern of growth. The histological differences may be attributed to those
genetical factors which affect cell size and growth and to physiological and other factors
which are evoked during development; but on those aspects of apical activity where genic