The reproductive cycle of Cetorhinus is undoubtedly correlated with the seasonal migra-
tions of the fish. Basking sharks appear in considerable numbers off the west coast of the
British Isles from the Scillies to the Orkneys during April, and remain among inshore
waters throughout the summer. They are most numerous during May and June, after
which their numbers decrease, although they are usually sufficiently numerous to make
commercial fishing profitable until September. They are said to be seen regularly off the
Norwegian coast in May and June, and also to be quite common in the Pacific off the coast
of British Columbia, where there is a similar spring inshore movement. Nothing is known
of where the sharks may go when they leave the coasts, nor whether their migration is
horizontal or vertical, or both. The fish appear at all points along the coast at about the
same time and there is not a shred of good evidence to indicate any migration from south
to north, or in the reverse direction later in the season, although such migrations are often
spoken of, for example, by Darling (1947), as though they were ascertained fact. The account
given by this author is based upon the results of the 1946 fishing season, when the weather
was very bad and unsuitable for hunting or basking, during most of July and August. In
the 1947 season the weather was better and hunting was successful throughout the summer.
Basking sharks are captured commercially by harpooning them as they swim at the surface
with the dorsal fin exposed; they are rarely caught in the fishing gear commonly employed
in European seas. It is therefore only when they are basking that their presence becomes
known, and since they bask only when the weather conditions are suitable it is possible for
large numbers to be present some depth below the surface and yet for them to be entirely
overlooked. A calm sea and bright sunny weather give the optimum conditions for seeing
the fish. Although large numbers of Cetorhinus are seen close inshore during the summer
they are by no means entirely absent in the winter; in fact, the earliest attempts at a
scientific description of the anatomy of this fish were made with sharks captured in the