Sedgwick further supposed that both these components represented endoderm; the large
vacuolated cells in P. capensis do in fact give endoderm, but not in P. balfouri where the
definitive endoderm does not arise until later (see p. 512). He accounted for the nuclei of his
‘endodermal’ cells by supposing that they arose de novo in the non-nucleated cytoplasmic
spheres, so giving the nucleated large vacuolated cells which he correctly observed forming ‘a
ring-like mass applied all round the edge of the ectodermal patch’ (1886). Although Sedg-
wick gives a long description and discussion of the development of ‘endoderm’ from the
cytoplasmic spheres, he says (1887) of segmentation that, apart from the superficial blasto-
meres, ‘the breaking up of the rest of the ovum into irregular masses cannot be regarded as
a process in any way related to cleavage, inasmuch as the nucleus takes no part in it’, and
in a footnote, ‘This process is probably identical with the formation of the non-nucleate
yolk spheres found in many arthropoda.’ The former conclusion is correct, but applies
more forcibly to the facts of development here described than to the version arrived at by
Sedgwick. Whether the cytoplasmic spheres represent yolk spheres is uncertain. They are
clearly depleted of food material, and it has been suggested above (p. 529) that they may be
homologous with the ‘pseudo-blastomeres’ of yolky forms such as Nebalia.

Sedgwick recognized the gastrula of P. capensis, although his methods did not show him
the archenteron in early stages which arises in a typical manner (p. 501). He states that
‘the gut of the gastrula arises from an enlargement and confluence of the vacuoles in the
centre’. ..‘of a much vacuolated mass of protoplasm’, a conclusion which resulted from
his technique. It has been shown that the open blastopore in P. capensis does not directly
become the mouth-anus opening as Sedgwick supposed, although the latter may yet be
found to arise on the site of the closed blastopore when embryos of exactly the appropriate
age are examined. The mouth-anus arises after endoderm formation is completed.