
This provisional conclusion, together with some other facts to be mentioned below
concerning the present experiments, and also some evidence from other experiments to be
reported in a later paper, have led the writer to consider the following possibility with
regard to the relationship between phyllotaxis and leaf asymmetry in this species, both in
normal plants and in the experiments. It may be that those conditions which inhibit the
formation of a new leaf centre promote the extension of the flanks of a leaf round the apex.
A new leaf centre would then in general arise on the same side of the apex as the shorter
half of the previous leaf, as is found to be the rule in a normal apex. In terms of the
inhibition theory it must be supposed that the influence exerted by the leaf centres on the
subsequent leaves is such as to inhibit the formation of new leaf centres but to promote
the extension of their flanks round the apex. This hypothesis seems at first rather arbitrary
and improbable, but it agrees well with the facts concerning the normal plant and con-
cerning J, and J, in the experiments. Thus in the experiments nos. 1 to 8 which form group I
the removal of the centre of P, reduced the promoting effect normally received by the
kathodic flank of J,, so that the anodic flank, as described above, was able to extend
farther before meeting the kathodic flank.

There remains to be considered experiment no. 3, figure 4, which was an exception to
the relationship shown by the graph, figure 10, in that the arc of the anodic half of J was
considerably smaller in relation to the angle J,|-/, than in any other experiment of group I.
This arc was indeed only 170°, which is only 3°-5 greater than the normal arc, whereas the
angle [,—J, was over 180°. Now in this experiment, though the angle /,—/, is large, J, is only
slightly displaced towards P,, as was pointed out on p. 148, where both these facts were inter-
preted as resulting from an incomplete removal of the centre of P,. The same explanation may