Internal waves in a three-layered basin 375 OscILLATIONS IN A THREE-LAYERED STRATI-
The response of a three-layered basin to FIED BASIN 399
wind stress 376 REFERENCES 402

The first part of this paper is taken up with an historical survey of the relatively few observations,
some detailed and some less so, of internal seiches (internal standing waves) in lakes. After a descrip-
tion of the thermo-electric thermometer employed, there follow details and illustrations of the
evidence, from temperature observations, for such internal waves in the northern basin of Winder-
mere. Two main phases could be distinguished: (i) motion under wind stress leading to quasi-steady
states with some or all of the isotherms tilted; (ii) internal seiche motion which developed after the
wind had dropped. These observations confirm the findings of Wedderburn and his collaborators
on the Scottish Lochs (1907-15). The results from Windermere are presented, not because any
such confirmation is necessary, but in order to secure belated recognition of the fact that Wedder-
burn’s ‘temperature seiche’ is not an isolated phenomenon, but is an everyday feature of movement
in stratified lakes subject to wind action. As this movement is an important and largely unrecognized
factor in lake environment, this paper is addressed mainly to limnologists. In its latter part, results
of theoretical analyses of a detailed series of observations are presented in non-mathematical form.
The applicability of a theory of oscillations in a basin with three layers of differing density (set out
in an appendix by M. S. Longuet-Higgins) is tested by comparing theoretical and observed de-
flexions of selected isotherms from their equilibrium levels, resulting from internal waves after a gale.
This theory also enables horizontal components of velocity and displacement to be calculated for
each layer. Complicating factors in natural lakes are enumerated, and the influence of internal
waves on lake biology and sedimentation is discussed.

VoL. 236. B. 635. (Price 11s. 6d.) 45 [Published 6 May 1952