was supposed to be initially in a stable homogeneous condition, but disturbed slightly from
this state by some influences unspecified, such as Brownian movement or the effects of
neighbouring structures or slight irregularities of form. It was supposed also that slow
changes are taking place in the reaction rates (or, possibly, the diffusibilities) of the two or
three morphogens under consideration. These might, for instance, be due to changes of
concentration of other morphogens acting in the role of catalyst or of fuel supply, or to a
concurrent growth of the cells, or a change of temperature. Such changes are supposed
ultimately to bring the system out of the stable state. The phenomena when the system is just
unstable were the particular subject of the inquiry. In order to make the problem mathe-
matically tractable it was necessary to assume that the system never deviated very far from
the original homogeneous condition. This assumption was called the ‘linearity assumption’
because it permitted the replacement of the general reaction rate functions by linear ones.
This linearity assumption is a serious one. Its justification lies in the fact that the patterns
produced in the early stages when it is valid may be expected to have strong qualitative
similarity to those prevailing in the later stages when it is not. Other, less important, assump-
tions were also made at the beginning of the mathematical theory, but the detailed effects
of these were mostly considered in § 9, and were qualitatively unimportant.

The conclusions reached were as follows. After the lapse of a certain period of time from
the beginning of instability, a pattern of morphogen concentrations appears which can best
be described in terms of ‘waves’. There are six types of possibility which may arise.

(a) The equilibrium concentrations and reaction rates may become such that there would
be instability for an isolated cell with the same content as any one of the cells of the ring. If
that cell drifts away from the equilibrium position, like an upright stick falling over, then,