lating two quite different kinds of changes in the insect’s relations to the air: both the changes
due to its own aberrations, of pitching, rolling and yawing (that is, for flight stabilization) ;
and, at the same time, the changes due to aberrations in the air’s movement, independent of
what the insect is doing, such as gusts (that is, for wind orientation, etc.). On the other
hand, it would seem an economical employment of the means at its disposal if the insect
used its aerodynamic sense organs, which are essentially directional accelerometers, for flight
stabilization, and used other sense organs, such as the eyes, which can act as directional
speedometers, for wind responses.

It remains to consider the effects of the wind as a direct stimulus acting on settled locusts.
When the locust is resting on the ground it has a fixed standard of reference and is therefore
in a position to sense and respond to the direct mechanical pressure of the air even when the
wind is quite smooth. This may well account for the fact that locusts taking off in any
appreciable wind are nearly always observed to be oriented into it.

It was observed that a sudden lull after a period of strong wind led to mass taking-off by
settled locusts (pp. 178-181). Since locusts have a powerful tendency to fly spontaneously,
the mass taking-off observed as soon as the suppressing influence of strong wind is removed
doubtless represents the release of their spontaneous flight activity. A drop in wind was
followed by mass taking-off over a considerable range of wind speeds, so that the decrease
in wind itself rather than a decrease to a certain threshold wind speed was apparently what
led to taking-off. It seems likely, therefore, that the ‘damming-up’ of spontaneous flying by
wind leads to a situation in which a slight lull, to a wind speed which would previously have
been quite effective in suppressing flight, releases flying with unusual unanimity. This may
be the real significance of Zimin’s (1934) observation that gusty winds were particularly