and deflecting effect on the hopper as had the decrease of forward illumination experienced
upon coming up against a dark, upstanding obstacle. The reaction is to some gross change
in the anterior field of view, not to illumination as such. Thus the responses concerned in
obstacle-circumvention and, equally, those concerned in rectilinear movement along
rectilinear features of the visible environment, constitute yet another type of visual com-
pensatory reaction, in this case to changes in the anterior field of view. The reaction is
another special case of the general tendency of migrating locusts to ‘keep their visible
environment as constant as is compatible with their own continued movement’ (Kennedy
1945). Greater or smaller changes in the lateral field of view are an inevitable accompani-
ment of continued movement. They are produced by objects which are not in the direct
path of the insect and so not incompatible with its continued movement. But objects in the
direct path of the insect are often physically incompatible with its continued movement and,
physically or merely sensorily incompatible, they do in fact provoke active compensatory
responses having the effect of restoring to the anterior field of view the general character to
which the moving insect has become accustomed. If this be true of hoppers, then we should
expect to find adult migrants behaving with relation to a ‘wall’ on land much as do hoppers,
although on a larger scale. Such behaviour is in fact well known: the tendency of swarms to
move along valleys. This was observed generally in mountainous Iran apart from the
particular instances given above, and has been mentioned by other authors (Predtechensky
19354; Zolotarevsky 1930; Vosseler 1905). Other factors are probably involved, wind and
temperature especially, but this tendency is at least consistent with the principle of ‘move-
ment in the direction of maximum constancy of the visual field’ (Kennedy 1945). Again,
more experimental work is needed on adults.

Altraction to conspicuous objects. Previous work has shown that both hoppers and adults are