terraces 3 and 4. During the period of terrace 2 the meander was short-circuited somewhat
south of the present river’s course, but the old loop was probably also still in use, for as late
as terrace 1) it received extensive deposits of gravel. Not until 1a time does the shortened
course appear to have become firmly established to the exclusion of the old loop.

The spread of 14 gravels which leaves the Leam up the small stream towards Prince-
thorpe is not another old meander, for levels to the east forbid this, but rather the deposit
of the small stream itself. The terrace deposits along this tributary valley are astonishing,
particularly at Stretton-on-Dunsmore where wide relics of No, 4 are preserved 45 ft. above
the stream. They lie in actual height above the level of the same terrace on the Leam or
the Avon and are separated from the second river by the unbroken Dunsmore ridge, so
that they cannot be explained by any theory involving an ancient course of either main
river. They are, in fact, what they appear to be, the deposits of the tributary which has
its source just west of the Blue Boar, the centre of the radiating drainage of the Dunsmore
plateau. The terrace gravels must therefore be derived from Dunsmore gravels of the
immediate neighbourhood. It is amazing that at a distance of only 2 miles from the source
of the stream the gravel plain of No. 4 times must have had a width of 900 yards.

Returning to the Leam it is joined at Marton by the Itchen, and here there is evidence
of considerable drainage modification. It has already been pointed out that No. 4 terrace
has not been traced up the Leam beyond Marton, but turns south along the Itchen, though
it would perhaps be premature to suggest that no upper Leam then existed. This change
occurs just in front of the escarpment of the White Lias, which may have been the con-
trolling factor. Actually the terrace patches of No. 4 lie about 14 miles east of the Itchen
and are on the continuation of the upper stretch of that river before it makes a big bend