
sumptions in biology is that structure and function are everywhere closely linked. This
assumption reproduces itself in studies aimed at every level of the nervous s
conformation of membrane proteins sumed to be a key determinant in their functions in the cell’s electro-
dynamics; at a larger scale, the morphology of dendrites and distribution of channels are intimately related to
the biophysical function of the neuron; and at a still more molar level, computation by local cortical circuits is
assumed to be a function of the pattern and properties of local and distant synapses. At the level of whole
neural systems, too, it is widely assumed that information processing is closely determined by the inputs,
internal connectivity and outputs of the network of areas and nuclei that make up the brain.

Some assumptions about neural structure—function relationships are better substantiated than others, and
at many levels of organization the relationships have remained opaque and elusive. Part of the difficulty ar
from the fact that both structure and function are often very complex, so that demonstrating a compelling
relationship between them requires that both structure and function are characterized in considerable detail.
There is, for example, a well-known mismatch between the anatomical complexity and extent of cortical
neurons and the localized physiological properties reported by neurophysiologists (Douglas & Martin 1991)
that is only now starting to give way through very detailed anatomical and physiological study (e.g. Douglas
et al. 1996). Similarly, at the systems level, the extent and complexity of corticocortical and thalamo-cortical
networks has proven difficult to relate clearly to the functional properties of the network or of its constituent
structures (Young 1995). Given the startling complexity in the pattern of connections between different brain
areas, and the complexity in the response properties of single neurons, it is encouraging that this latter
difficulty has also begun to give way. Collations and analyses
networks revealed by neuroanatomists’ experiments have recently predicted successfully the location of cells
with specific physiological properties (e.g. Scannell e¢ al. 1996, 1997; cf. Merabet e¢ al. 1998). The same analyses
have also started to account for the distribution of particular kinds of selectivity by reference to the structure