T. H. Lilley. But you just have to use the Kirkwood J. S. Dordick (Department of Chemical Engineering,
equation—the one that you showed in your talk. The free Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, USA). Let me
energy changes are enormous. answer the question over there about whether a protein

D. S. Clark. But that does not necessarily preclude can fold in a non-aqueous environment. Doug Clark and
function. T have actually demonstrated that under certain conditions

T. H. Lilley. Not necessarily, but one would imagine an enzyme that is partly unfolded can refold to its native
that if you have a significant structural change, that might state in a nearly anhydrous organic solvent. The water

well preclude function. I do not think one can com- content of the solvent is practically immeasurable.
pletely generalize. But I want to get to a more general point here, which
D. S. Clark. Right. I do not think one can. is that we are clouded by the fact that we have grown up

P. Ball (Nature, London, UR). I am wondering whether knowing that water is important. I think the question that
we might at least be able to rule out some of the supposed needs to be asked is not whether water makes it better—
essential characteristics of water in its role in life. I came in fact, we know that life exists better with water—but can
to this meeting with the kind of vague view that the three- life exist at all in any form without it?
dimensional hydrogen-bonded network must be We can begin to look at our experiences and say that
important, must be essential somehow. I find I still have life has not evolved on this planet in the absence of water.
that gut feeling, but I have heard nothing that convinces But why not, given the selective pressures to do so? For
me that this is an essential aspect of water. I just wondered example, when we look at enzyme catalysis in non-aque-
whether anyone wanted to defend the importance of the ous media, were we really surprised that the enzymatic
three-dimensional network. activity was so low? And low activity because we used
