with in the biomedical sciences, but has not reached tax- describe a more radical transformation of taxonomy that
onomy in any serious way. The picture is complicated by will then be criticized by his co-author (S.K.).

tremendous inertia in the system. Money currently The taxonomy of a group currently consists of the sum
invested in journal purchase is not easily re-routed to pay- of the species descriptions and revisions in the paper

as-you-go publication, and the prestige and reward system literature, possibly supplemented in the future by the same
throughout the sciences emphasizes publication in a rather material in electronic format, backed up by type and other
narrow suite of established journals rather than in new material in museums and herbaria. The taxonomy is thus
journals or innovative media. It is ironic that for scientists distributed across several sources, and not concentrated
one of the most valuable products of the new information in any one location. The taxonomist will know intimately
age is the publication and citation database maintained by the contours of this information landscape for his or her
the Institute of Scientific Information, but that the journal particular group, and in fact this is as much a part of
impact factors calculated from this resource are a major ‘knowing’ a group as being able to identify specimens. But
disincentive to publish in new places. Taxonomic papers this distributed taxonomy is of only limited use to the
are long, require many illustrations, and typically have a more general biologist, to the end-users of taxonomy.
very specialized audience that lasts for many years—the What they require is the information in a more digested
half-life of a taxonomic monograph can be calculated in form that is suitable for their particular uses, for example,

decades or even centuries rather than years or months. species identifications and relationships, series of images
Taxonomy is clearly one of the fields that will gain most of organisms or natural history information on different
from a changing culture in scientific publishing. groups.

There are also intrinsic factors within taxonomy that act Currently user needs are met (where they are met) by
as a break to Web publication. At present the Zoological monographs, floras, field guides and handbooks, all