
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2006)


Speciation in Salmonella D. Falush and others 2051

4. IS SPECIATION OCCURRING WITHIN sample in comparison to both the genome and the time
ENTERICA? A CAUTIONARY TALE depth of evolution within enterica, this observation is of
Since enterica is the most diverse of the subspecies, we limited informativeness about how Typhi might differ
might ask whether it is itself speciating, and if so which from other lineages. STRUCTURE assumes that each of the
lineages constitute the incipient species. Initial analysis isolates is unrelated in the sense that they have acquired
of data using both a neighbour-joining tree of — their genomes independently from a number of distinct
concatenated sequences and the program STRUCTURE, ancestral sources. In fact, the four Typhi STs in the
using naive clustering, suggested three different popu- sample are closely related to each other by recent
lations, putatively corresponding to partially reproduc- common descent. This clonal relatedness, plus the
tively isolated gene pools. The first of these consists of a outlier sequence, which includes many fixed differences
single lineage, containing the human pathogen Typhi, between Typhi and the other strains, causes STRUCTURE
whose strains all share a recent common ancestor to infer that Typhi represents a distinct, recombining
(Kidgell et al. 2002). Typhi is clearly separated from the population, when in fact it is just a clone.
other strains on the neighbour-joining tree, with a Given that each of these analysis methods has led us
pairwise genetic distance of 2%. According to the to misleading results about Typhi, it follows that we
STRUCTURE analysis, Typhi is largely reproductively need to be very careful in reaching conclusions about
isolated from the other two. All the nucleotides in the status of the subdivision between clades A and B.
Typhi derive from a single gene pool (blue in figure 36), There are a number of possibilities. Clade B could
which contributes only 7% on average to the ancestry of represent an expanding or disproportionately sampled