substantially more diversity within the S. mitis and continue to diverge from each other, from those that
S. oralis clusters (average sequence diversity of 5.1 are best considered as different lineages of a single
and 6.2%, respectively) than those of S. pneumoniae species. General criteria for recognizing the nature of
and S. pseudopneumoniae (average diversity of 1.1 and clusters (e.g. the sharing or non-sharing of alleles, or the
3.0%). Furthermore, the average sequence divergence presence of fixed polymorphisms in different clusters)
between the S. mitis and S. pneumoniae clusters was are probably not achievable for bacteria in which
5.8%, only slightly greater than that within the S. mitis recombination may be very frequent or very rare. In
cluster. It should be noted that this is not necessarily the former case, allele sharing may still occur in clearly
evident in the tree shown in figure 4 as a result of the distinct species due to interspecies recombination,
best-fitting model of nucleotide substitution whereas if recombination is absent, allele sharing
implemented across the tree. However, the diversity between distinct species or divergent lineages within a
within the S. mitis and S. oralis clusters is further shown species is unlikely, raising questions of whether each
by the fact that each isolate examined had a different clonal lineage should be considered genotypically to
multilocus genotype. As in the Neisseria example, form its own species. These difficulties are not inherent
the individual gene trees completely fail to resolve the weaknesses of the MLSA approach, but rather inherent
streptococcal species clusters identified using the problems in finding universal principles of species
concatenated sequences (figure 5). definition in the bacteria. The advantage of the MLSA
approach is that it is pragmatic, rather than based on
strict rules, and allows clusters to be identified and used
7. CLUSTERS: LINEAGES OR SPECIES? as the basis for informed judgements on nomenclature,
In the two examples discussed in the previous section, taking account of whatever additional data are available.
MLSA resolves clusters that have a clear relationship to
named species, even though recombination between
the strains in different clusters is very apparent from the 8. SPECIES ASSIGNMENT ON THE INTERNET:
inspection of the trees obtained from the sequences of |. ELECTRONIC TAXONOMY