
yer y such as population or sex differences, to provide ideas
An individual-based approach to ecological endo- about variables that might be important in explaining
crinology will probably require new ways of thinking — continuous individual variation. They conclude that
about, analysing and interpreting variability and this approach along with the use of newly developed
methodological issues. For example, many studies molecular genetics tools represents a promising avenue
report highly significant relationships between two for avian ecophysiologists to pursue.
variables based on regression analysis, but where the The paper by Kempenaers et al. (2008) provides a
explanatory variable (x) only explains approximately detailed empirical example of both the magnitude and
10% of the variation in the dependent variable (y). In the patterns of inter-individual variation in plasma
cases like this, should we be satisfied with the statistically testosterone levels in a well-studied, free-living passer-
significant regression or should we focus more on  jne, the blue tit (Cyanistes caeruleus), in ecologically
explaining the huge variability in the y-variable for any realistic conditions. They highlight the fact that the
particular value of the x-variable (i.e. what explains the sources and the implications of the large variability in
‘other’ 90% of the variation)? As a further example, individual testosterone levels within the seasonal cycle
many ‘adaptive’ hypotheses for hormone variationimply _ surprisingly are not well understood, but that such an
that relatively small differences in average hormone level _ understanding is critically important for behavioural
(5-10%) can have significant effects on phenotypic trait and evolutionary ecologists (e.g. in relation to tes-
values, but fail to explain why even greater inter- tosterone’s role in ‘honest sexual signalling’ theory, as a
individual variation (100%) does not have even larger, hypothesized key mediator of life-history trade-offs).
overriding effects on phenotype. Three contributions Kempenaers et al. discuss whether individual variability
from the ‘individual variation’ workshop in this special mainly reflects differences in the underlying individual

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2008)
