demands of particular ecological niches and may architecture revolve around the issue of action selection.
deliver a predictably suboptimal behaviour when Because it is a fundamental property of neurons to be
operating outside these niches (Gigerenzer et al. selective with regard to the patterns of input activity to
1999). In line with ecological rationality, Seth (2007) which they respond, claims that particular brain sub-
shows that simple decision rules, which lead to optimal systems are specifically or preferentially involved in the
foraging in competitive environments with multiple selection of action, as distinct to other aspects of control,
foragers, also lead individual foragers to obey the must meet more stringent requirements (see below). It
matching law. is also by no means inevitable that the functional
As Houston et al. (2007) discuss, a further possible decomposition of the brain will contain specialist
explanation of apparent irrationality is that we were action-selection mechanisms (Seth 2007). Appropriate
wrong about what is being optimized. As an example, behavioural switching could be a global property of the
they consider violations of transitivity, showing that functioning of the nervous system, and of its embedding
such violations can, in fact, be optimal when decisions ina body and environment, which cannot be attributed to
are state-dependent and when choice options persist specific sub-components of brain architecture. In other
into the future. Another axiom of standard rationality is words, it is plausible that an animal may ‘flip’ from one
independence from irrelevant alternatives, the notion integrated pattern of behavioural output to another

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2007)


Introduction. Modelling natural action selection T.J. Prescott et al. 1523

without some identifiable internal ‘switch’ being thrown. balance of basal ganglia output to both winning and
On the other hand, theoretical arguments can be losing channels. While the differences between these
presented, based, for instance, on the benefits that accrue alternative accounts can seem relatively subtle, the fact