tally different from the representation at lower levels, in and demonstrates how it can account for the relation-
that stimulus features other than the distribution of ship between vocal-tract properties and formant
energy across frequency are analysed. patterns. He points out that certain types of speech

The paper by Moore (2008) reviews basic aspects of sounds (e.g. the resonance patterns or ‘formant’
auditory processing that play a role in the perception of | frequencies of specific vowel sounds) occur commonly

speech. Here, the data are mainly derived from in the languages of the world, while others occur much
perceptual experiments using human listeners. The more rarely. He presents two theories that have been
frequency selectivity of the auditory system refers to the proposed to account for the structure of these
ability to resolve the sinusoidal components in complex ‘preferred sound inventories’: quantal theory and
sounds, and is closely related to the tonotopic dispersion theory.
representation described by Young. Moore describes Quantal theory (Stevens 1989) is based on the fact
how frequency selectivity can be quantified using that nonlinearities exist in the mapping between
masking experiments. The ‘auditory filters’ inferred articulatory (i.e. vocal-tract) configurations of talkers
from the results can be used to calculate the internal and acoustic outputs. For certain regions of articu-
representation of the spectrum of speech sounds in the latory ‘space’, perturbations in the articulatory par-
peripheral auditory system. This representation is ameters result in small changes in the acoustic output,
called the excitation pattern. The perception of timbre whereas in other regions perturbations of similar size
and distinctions in quality between vowels are related to yield large acoustic changes. Given these regions of
both static and dynamic aspects of the spectra of acoustic stability and instability, quantal theory is based
sounds, as represented in the excitation pattern. The on the idea that preferred sound categories are selected
pitch of speech sounds is related to their fundamental to occupy the stable regions and to be separated by
frequency, which is in turn related to the rate of | unstable regions. Dispersion theory (Liljencrants &
vibration of the vocal folds. Moore describes the Lindblom 1972), like quantal theory, is based on the