predict activity elsewhere in the brain. The resulting

functional connectivity analyses reveal distinct patterns Figure 8. LH connectivity effects for regular inflection and for
of fronto-temporal connectivity for the two types of syntax. Results of connectivity analysis for syntactic dom-
linguistic computation. For semantic processing (as inance (red), from figure 76, contrasted with parallel results
shown in figure 7a), activity in the LIFG positively for real regulars versus real irregulars (blue), from figure 4a,
predicts activation in the L temporal pole (BA 38), both for young controls (p= 0.05). Predictor time series for
suggesting that this region and the LIFG co-modulate both analyses were located in the LIFG.

each other’s activity during semantic processing.

The syntactic functional connectivity analysis when compared with irregular inflected words (figure 8).
(figure 7b) showed the same co-modulation between The fact that activity in the LIFG during semantic
LIFG and L temporal pole as for semantic processing, processing is not correlated with activity in these more
which is not surprising given that all sentences involved | posterior temporal regions, whereas syntactic and
semantic analysis. However, in the syntactic analysis, _ morpho-phonological processing does seem to be, invites
this anterior STG activity was bilateral. Moreover, for the inference that these adjacent regions of left posterior
the syntactic analysis only, the LIFG also predicts temporal cortex play related but different roles in
activity in LH posterior regions which included the L mediating combinatorial linguistic processes.
posterior MTG, L inferior parietal, angular gyrus and Overall, these functional connectivity results suggest
supramarginal gyrus (figure 7b). These results suggest that successful syntactic processing requires the joint
that syntactic combinatorial processes, revealed most _ activity of an intact network of LH regions including
strongly when the process is disrupted, involve the the LIFC and regions of posterior temporal and
co-modulation of LIFG, bilateral anterior STG and left parietal cortex. In contrast, semantic processing,
posterior temporal-—parietal sites. while also involving the LIFC, engages a more anterior