L

processing, which is associated with an abnormal Comparing the FA values in the arcuate and inferior
behavioural profile. In contrast, semantic processing longitudinal fasciculi in the two hemispheres confirmed
is normal, in terms of both functional connectivity and this pattern for the patient. The mean FA for the patient
behaviour. We can unpack these contrasts still further, in the LH was 0.235, whereas it averaged 0.349 in the
using recent developments in neuroimaging tech- RH. In contrast, for the age-matched healthy control,
niques, to ask whether the patient’s syntactic deficit there was no difference across the hemispheres, with FA
was due solely to grey matter damage in left posterior averaging 0.377 in the LH and 0.367 in the RH.
temporal cortex or whether white matter tracts | Moreover, when compared with the control subject, the
connecting this region to other regions within the patient showed a greater reduction in FA in the arcuate
neural language system were also compromised. This is fasciculus than in the inferior longitudinal fasciculus. In
an important issue because patients with damage to _ fact, as figure 12 shows (indicated by the white arrow),
posterior temporal cortex differ in the nature of their there is an apparent discontinuity in the left arcuate
language deficits, with some showing evidence of a fasciculus which is neither present in the patient’s RH nor
syntactic deficit and others not (Zurif et al. 1993; in the healthy control.
Wilson & Saygin 2004). One possible explanation for This is an important observation for several reasons.
variation in the effect of left posterior temporal lesions First, it invites the inference that the disruption of this
may lie in the extent to which damage compromises the route between frontal and posterior temporal regions is
white matter connections between the lesion site and a critical factor in the syntactic deficit shown by this
other anatomically distributed regions of the language patient. Second, it reinforces the significant theoretical
system. Given that syntactic processing involves both and clinical point that the functional deficits associated
posterior temporal and inferior frontal regions, syntac- with damage in particular locations needs to take into
tic deficits may be restricted to those patients whose | 2CCount white matter as well as grey matter damage.
damage includes the white matter tracts connecting Finally, it underscores the critical role of connectivity