Figure 1. Fore initiate, 1961. Accompanied by his father he Faced with a demographic emergency, the dimen-
visits relatives to exhibit his new status. sions of which they grasped clearly, the South Fore
had recourse to a series of desperate remedies
to adult women, children of both sexes and a few adult (Lindenbaum 1979, pp. 89-116). During 1961 and
men, a pattern that matched the epidemiology of kuru 1962 the Fore expended much time, material wealth
in the early 1960s. and emotional energy in an attempt to locate the
Our anthropological findings received little, often sorcerers they believed to be responsible for the
sceptical attention, until the anthropological and calamity. They also consulted a variety of curers in
medical stories came together in 1966, when chimpan- _— distant locations, taking ambulant victims of the
zees injected with brain material from victims of the disease on healing pilgrimages, the most spectacular
disease exhibited a clinical syndrome akin to kuru of which took place among the neighbouring Gimi
(Gajdusek er al. 1966). This gave credence to the people. Between April and August 1961, more than
cannibalism hypothesis, as did the fact that following a 70 patients consulted a Gimi curer whose therapy
change in this mortuary custom, kuru disappeared consisted of bloodletting, the ingestion of medicinal
among children, while the age of those afflicted with the barks and leaves, and the identification of the location
disease also rose (Alpers 1968). where the guilty sorcerer might be found. Back at
Although we had no satisfactory medical model for —_ home, the sick women sometimes revealed the identity
explaining how the disease might be transmitted, we of their aggressor, said to have come to them in a
often spoke about kuru and cannibalism to those who dream. With the women present, men also conducted
visited us in the field, including Richard Hornabrook, _ divination tests to reveal the sorcerers’ identities, which
who visited in May 1963, and later that month often led to new tensions when the tests suggested that
Norma McArthur, Jon Hancock, Michael Alpers and the sorcerers might be close neighbours and relatives.
MacFarlane Burnet. Burnet later recorded an account To the often expressed fear of extinction from the loss
of his visit, his initial reservations, and a subsequent of women’s reproductive power was now added a
shift to at least an open mind on the matter; this matter fear of internal disruption so great that their future was