provided the counterpoint for all public discussions. the past. By then kuru was becoming rare, the political
Adoption of the word sickness did not mean that the and social order had changed (Papua New Guinea had
Fore shared western medical concepts of biologically been an independent nation for more than 15 years)
caused ailments based on germ theory. In this context and discussions began to absorb new information, new
sickness referred to illnesses not caused by the experiences and to present additional views about the
aggressive acts of men. (Non-sorcery-caused ailments cause of kuru and its demise. As the great debates of the
were often said to be caused by encroachments against 1960s and the more informal discussions in the 1990s
nature spirits, ghosts of the recently dead or angry show, the Fore quest for truth is at the heart of sorcery
neighbours, all of whom could be given compensation beliefs, which seek to assign cause for severe illness,
payments in order to find relief.) Wrestling with misfortune and death by identifying the persons
conflicting explanations, the Fore drew on their under- responsible. This socio-medical analysis of the epi-
standing of the nature of social relationships, of losses demic does not rest on germ theory. Nevertheless, it
that required retaliation in a society based on reciprocal should not be viewed as a mere metaphor or fiction.
exchange, where wealth is transacted not for profit, but Fore narratives about the history of kuru are told in
to meet the mutual obligations of kinship and two forms: one as a story about the sequential purchase
co-residence. Aware that the government held different of sorcery knowledge and technology from Uwami in
views about the cause of the disease, they examined the north to Purosa in the south, and the other as a
their own ways of thinking about the world, but an story we would identify more readily as history. In the
alternative was literally ‘unthinkable’. The epidemic latter, the Fore spoke of their first encounters with
provided sorry evidence that the cultural restraints on the new disease and provided the names of the victims.
killing by sorcery, like the limits placed on killing The first could be said to be indigenous social
enemies in warfare, had been disregarded. The days epidemiology, providing the rationale for the second.
passed and speakers had faced the problem from every Together, they tell the same history.

direction. Angry men should kill just one man, destroy As the kuru epidemic draws to a close, kuru