(Alpers 1999, 2005) for describing the mortuary periods of BSE infection of humans causing vCJD
practice of consumption by family members of their requires superimposition of the effect of a transmission
dead, as practised by the people of the kuru region to barrier onto the findings of natural incubation periods
incorporate the body of their loved one into the bodies in human prion disease exemplified by kuru.

of the living and help to free the newly disembodied The mean incubation period for kuru has been
spirit. This practice ceased abruptly when the people estimated to be approximately 12 years (Collinge 1999)
first came under Australian administrative control. and a similar estimate has been made in iatrogenic CJD

While isolated events may have occurred for a few years associated with the use of human cadaver-derived
after this prohibition, new exposures of individuals to pituitary growth hormone (Brown et al. 2000). As
kuru at mortuary feasts would not have occurred after evidenced here, in kuru, maximum incubation periods
1960. In fact, no patients with kuru have been recorded can exceed 50 years. The cattle BSE-to-human
who were born after 1959 (and only nine were recorded transmission barrier is unknown and cannot be directly
in those born between 1956 and 1959); indeed, all of determined. However, the cattle-to-mouse barrier for
the 11 recently recorded cases of kuru, reported here, the BSE strain has been well characterized experimen-
were born before 1950. Were there any remaining tally by comparative endpoint titration. BSE prions
source of infection, whether from surreptitious canni- transmit readily to laboratory mice (Fraser et al. 1992a),
balism or possible ground contamination (Brown & including following oral dosing (Barlow & Middleton
Gajdusek 1991), we would have expected to have had 1990). The murine LDs 9 (assayed in C57B1/6 mice) is
kuru patients born after this period—particularly, as approximately 500-fold higher than that in cattle
children are thought to have had shorter incubation (Wells et al. 1998); this barrier also results in a three-
periods—but this has not been observed. In addition, to fourfold increase in mean incubation period (Collinge
no clusters of cases, as shown to have been the outcome 1999; Lloyd et al. 2002). Mean incubation periods of
of the last family mortuary feasts celebrated in the area human BSE infection of 30 years or more should