the altered retinal representation is a direct result of these experience-dependent changes to cortical function
actions and not a change in the structure of the object during development may display important common-
itself. In the fourth paper in this issue (Hoffman & alities with those that drive sensory learning later in life.
Logothetis 2009), the authors investigate how we learn to At present, we do not know if this is the case. The three
identify new objects and object categories and reveal the papers that comprise the next section of this issue
brain areas that are critical to the learning process. examine the anatomical pathways and cellular and

It is certainly true to say that learning about objects molecular mechanisms responsible for precipitating
often involves more than a single sense. This is readily experience-dependent changes in the sensory cortex.
evident when a young child explores a new object for The authors present information gathered from visual
the first time. Repeated viewing of the object from (Smith et al. 2009; Tropea et al. 2008) and somatosen-
different angles is combined with coordinated tactile sory (Fox 2009) cortex.
exploration using the hands (and often the mouth). In The fact that the cortical circuitry of the brain can be
this example, experience is being used to build up altered by sensory experience has been known for quite
congruent associations between visual and tactile some time. The term ‘plasticity’ is used to describe this
stimulation. Similarly, when we are required to localize process and was originally applied to the enduring
an object in external space, associated visual, auditory alterations in connection weights that occur when activity
and tactile cues need to be combined in order to form in an input element is correlated with the rise in activity of
coherent spatial maps. Although each system is capable a receptor element (Konorski 1948). This system of
of providing an estimate of object location, the superior strengthening synaptic connections (known as poten-
sensitivity of the visual system for judgements of this tiation) based on sensory experience offered a new
type means that, during development, auditory and framework for understanding the behavioural changes
tactile spatial maps are calibrated relative to visual associated with learning (Hebb 1949). However, the
input. However, new evidence suggests that the theoretical and computational limitations of early
strategy the brain uses to flexibly integrate multisensory Hebbian learning have hastened the development of