In the following two articles, we are first offered a Daisley et al. (2009) focus on the domestic chick as a
general overview about the relative weight of genes and model system for the study of hemispheric lateraliza-
the environment on the development of brain and tion of social cognition, echoing some of the phenom-
behavioural asymmetries in humans and other animals, ena described in the preceding article on human social
and then a detailed analysis of a specific environmental perception (Brancucci er al. 2009). Both in reviewing
factor, namely the effect of prenatal exposure to the literature and in describing their own research work
testosterone on the development of asymmetries. (that take advantage of the monocular occlusion
Schaafsma et al. (2009) clearly show that pre-, peri- technique), the authors present solid evidence of
and post-natal environmental factors, such as light right-hemispheric asymmetry of social representations
exposure, body posture, or the side preferentially taken in chicks, modulated by perinatal environmental effects
by parents while cradling infants, are important in such as light exposure, and social rearing, as already
influencing the development of the degree of lateraliza- shown in the article by Schaafsma er al. (2009).
tion, despite the fact their exact mechanisms have not A pivotal role is assumed by the article of Andrew
been fully understood. Data obtained in domestic et al. (2009), for it links the articles based on avian
chicks (Gallus gallus) are presented to convey the idea models dealing with visual perception and cognition,
that social rearing can be considered another environ- to those dealing with the genetics and embryology of
mental factor modulating lateralization. Pfannkuche brain and behavioural asymmetries of other increas-
et al. (2009) carry out a meta-analysis concerning the ingly important model systems: fishes. Indeed,
effects of prenatal exposure to testosterone on the the research presented in Andrew et al.’s article shows
degree and direction of lateralization in mammals and that environmental manipulation (i.e. exposure of the
birds, testing four hypotheses and demonstrating a eggs to light or dark) during the pre-hatching
partial relationship between prenatal testosterone levels development of chicks and zebrafish (Brachydanio
and asymmetry, emphasizing a higher correlation with rerio), determines strong similarities in lateralized visual
the extent of the asymmetry rather than the direction behaviour and in ‘personality traits’ of the two species,
of its expression. as assessed by the timing and dynamics at which tasks