urogenital canal posteriorly to the partition which separates the canal from the vaginal
cavity. In the course of development the relations of the parts in this region normally
become altered, but if development proceeded no farther than the piercing of the partition
shown in figure 4, then the urethral orifice would continue to be posterior to that of the
vagina, and a condition like that described by Neuville would result.

Mayer’s (1847) account led Watson (1878) to suppose the vagina to be only slightly
demarcated from the uterus in the female Indian elephant, and he compared this species
with the hyena in this respect. Miall & Greenwood’s paper was published in 1878
and that of Forbes in the following year, and these authors described a well-defined
vagina, the former in the Indian and the latter in the African elephant. Watson then
dissected a female Indian elephant, which he described in 1881, and found a condition
differing from all previous accounts (see p. 115). In fact, the structure he found has not
been reported in any other specimen. Assuming this specimen to be normal, he wrote:
‘There are few (mammals) in which the vagina, in respect of anatomical structure,
presents so close a resemblance to the uterus as does that of the elephant.’ In a second
specimen, however, which was of normal configuration, Watson (1883) found the vagina
quite clearly distinguishable. In the present investigation it was always found possible to
insert the hand from the cavity of the vagina, when that organ was cut across in sztu, into
that of the urogenital canal. There is therefore no reason to suppose that the vagina is not
normally used in copulation in the elephant. As for the comparison with the hyena in this
particular respect, which was taken up by Neuville, a later paper by Matthews (1939) has
made it clear that the vagina of the hyena is in fact distinguishable from the uterus, both
morphologically and histologically, and that here again there is no reason to suppose it is
not functional in coitus.