The present account will be limited to the description of the histological characteristics
of the several regions of the reproductive tract in the non-pregnant female. Changes
associated with pregnancy will be described in relation to placentation in a further account,
and the material includes only three adult animals which were not either pregnant or in
lactation anoestrus, and none which demonstrates the changes which may be expected to occur
at oestrus. Little difference was observed between the reproductive organs of young nulli-
parous animals, adults in lactation anoestrus, and the three specimens which, while lactating,
were diagnosed as undergoing a succession of infertile cycles prior to a further pregnancy.

The opening of the Fallopian tube is easily located but is not very sharply defined. The
fimbrial folds and grooves extend from the ‘funnel’ into the tube itself and continue for
a considerable part of its length. The lumen grows progressively narrower, and the sur-
rounding muscle layer becomes stronger. Apart from the fact that the Fallopian tube in
the elephant is not suspended by a mesosalpinx but lies beneath the peritoneum, as already
described, it resembles that of such animals as the pig, a strongly fimbriated and ciliated
segment gradually giving way, as one proceeds towards the uterine horn, to a strongly
muscular and non-ciliated segment.

The uterus may conveniently be divided into three regions, that of distinct right and
left uterine horns, that in which the cornua fuse but the lumina remain distinct, and that
with a single uterine lumen. The first two are histologically distinguished from the third
by the fact that the uterine wall is glandular in the first two segments, while in the third it
is not. This portion of the uterus, in fact, which is about one-third of the ‘body’ of the
uterus as seen at dissection, resembles the vagina as regards the inner lining of the lumen.
In the quiescent state the lining of both consists of a single layer of cuboidal epithelium