6 of Setou et al. (2006).

DNA (figure 5, arrowhead) are consistently observed prerequisite for studying intact eukaryotic or mamma-
radiating from the holes where a polyphosphate body lian cells by HDC-TEM is their ability to remain
was probably situated. relatively flat on an electron microscope grid. The rat
In addition to permitting visualization of intact kangaroo cell line PtK2 meets this criterion, and we
ultrastructures, HDC-TEM allows the identification of therefore chose it for imaging with HDC cryo-TEM.
cell constituents in their im vivo states. As such, we Figure 6a shows a micrograph of a PtK2 whole cell
attempted to visualize DNA by the incorporation of | by HDC cryo-TEM. Various membranous organelles
BrdU (bromodeoxyuridine) into newly synthesized are apparent, as are long filaments extending down-
DNA, a technique widely used to investigate DNA wards from the cell periphery. The filaments have a
synthesis i vivo in cell biological research. However, | width of 25 nm and are several micrometres long, the
instead of labelling BrdU using fluorescent probes, a | approximate size of microtubules. The fact that the
routinely used procedure, we initially attempted to take filaments were eliminated by treatment with nocoda-
advantage of the elevated electron density of Br and zole further confirms their identity as microtubules
visualize it directly. Rapidly growing cyanobacterial (data not shown). Figure 66 shows a closer examination
cells were cultured for 24 hours in liquid media of the purified microtubules using HDC-TEM.
containing BrdU, and the cells were then collected, Individual protofilaments can be discerned in this

rinsed thoroughly and frozen rapidly in liquid ethane. image, as can shadows of the depolymerized tubulin
HDC-TEM images of the BrdU-treated cells exhibit monomers.
electron-dense areas (figure 5c, arrowhead) other than As noted above, figure 6a reveals several membra-

polyphosphate bodies. Electron-dense strands that nous structures, and we identified some of them as
extend from the polyphosphate bodies are also visible mitochondria based on the unique appearance of their