surrounding insular region are essential for recogniz- ACC’s role in pain experience. Importantly, Hutchi-

ing emotions from visually presented facial expressions son et al. (1999) also demonstrated the existence of
(Adolphs ez al. 2000). In addition, the AI is implicated single neurons in the ACC which are active during
in disorders associated with an impaired ability to both the sensation and perception of pain. This
recognize disgust such as _ obsessive-compulsive suggests that, similar to touch and disgust, pain is a
disorder (Breiter et al. 1996; Sprengelmeyer et al. feeling that we simulate.
1997; Calder et al. 2001), Wilson’s disease (Wang In a seminal study, Singer er al. (2004) tested
et al. 2003) and Huntington’s disease (Sprengelmeyer romantic couples in a situation where one was lying
et al. 1996; Gray et al. 1997; Wang et al. 2003; in the scanner and was informed by a symbol on the
Hennenlotter et al. 2004). computer screen when her lover was receiving a pain-
The role of the IFO goes beyond the perception ful stimulation. Knowing that her lover was in pain
and experience of disgust. The fact that electrical activated parts of the pain matrix that were also
stimulation of the anterior sector of the insula evokes active when a noxious stimulus was applied to the
nausea and visceromotor activity (Penfield & Faulk subject herself: the AI and ACC. Numerous other
1955; Calder et al. 20006) demonstrates its role in studies (reviewed in Singer & Lamm 2009) found acti-
controlling visceral sensations and related autonomic vation of the insula and the ACC associated with the

responses. The IFO not only instantiates the repre- observation of stimuli depicting pain-inducing events.
sentation of bodily states, but it also makes these For instance, static images of a knife cutting a hand,
representations consciously available as subjective feel- or a foot stuck in the door (Jackson et al. 2005), and

ing states. More activity and grey matter in the insula videos of needles being inserted into human body
for instance predicts that people are better at judging parts (Cheng et al. 2007) all activate these areas.
their visceral bodily states (Critchley et al. 2004). Even in the absence of a direct pain-inducing event,