
pened very early, before the split of cnidarians and combination of photokinesis and an orientation to
bilaterians. If present day cnidarians use c-opsins in gravity (passive or through geotaxis; Hader er al.
their eyes, as suggested by Kozmik er al. (2008), the 2005; Roberts 2006; Richter er al. 2007). Light is an
cnidops clade would be expected to contain photoi- equally important cue for epibenthic or partly burrow-
somerases that work together with the c-opsins. The ing animals, and light-entrained circadian clocks and
observation that jellyfish opsins display bleaching optical depth gauges would have offered selective
(O’Connor et al. 2009) leads to the hypothesis that advantages to urmetazoan or urbilaterian ancestors
cnidarian photoreception is based on separate receptor irrespective of whether they were swimming or
and enzyme proteins. crawling.

A related question is why opsins have become the Using light as a measure of depth in water is com-
only type of visual photopigment, whereas animals plicated by the fact that the luminance is determined
use both opsins and cryptochromes for non-visual both by the time of day and by the depth. Unless an
photoreception. This is remarkable because organism strictly follows isolumes, it is necessary to
cryptochromes were inherited from the unicellular separate the causes of any luminance changes, such
predecessors of animals (Rubin et al. 2006), but type that time of day and depth in the water can be disen-
II opsins are unique to animals (Larusso er al. 2008) tangled. There are two obvious ways for vertically
and must thus have evolved in an ancestor that already migrating plankton to solve the luminance ambiguity.
possessed cryptochromes. Spontaneous regeneration First, a circadian rhythm can anticipate the time of
of cryptochromes occurs at a reasonable rate (Kennis day, and setting of the clock can be done over many
et al. 2004; Bouly et al. 2007; Losi 2007; Kao et al. light cycles, such that the impact of depth variations
2008), and in this sense, cryptochromes would have can be minimized. The other possibility is to use the
been superior to the ancient bleachable opsin. There fact that the spectral composition of light varies in
are thus likely to be other reasons that made opsins a different ways depending on time and depth (Lythgoe