on the uncertain prospect of a larger monetary out- Gambling is associated with physiological arousal that is
come. As a form of recreation, gambling has been manifested in heart rate increases and elevated cortisol
widespread for several centuries, and across many levels (Anderson & Brown 1984; Meyer et al. 2004).
cultures (Raylu & Oei 20046). The 2007 British Environmental cues (e.g. flashing lights, the chime of
Gambling Prevalence Survey found that 68 per cent coins) that are associated with this arousal become con-
of respondents reported gambling at least once in the ditioned stimuli via Pavlovian processes. Gambling may
past year, and 48 per cent reported gambling on also serve to alleviate unpleasant states of boredom,
games other than the state lottery (Wardle et al. anxiety or low mood (i.e. negative reinforcement).
2007). To economists and psychologists, the popular- These emotional learning mechanisms will play a key
ity of gambling represents an enduring paradox, as the role in shaping gambling behaviour (Blaszczynski &
vast majority of gamblers are well aware of the popular Nower 2002).

saying ‘the house always wins’. This refers to the fact Gambling is also a behaviour that can spiral out of
that gambling odds are carefully arranged to ensure a control in some individuals. As gambling becomes
steady profit for the bookmaker, casino or slot machine; excessive, there are observable harms including debt,
something that can only be achieved at the expense of the illegal activity and interpersonal conflict. In its most

gambler. In economic terms, the expected value of gam- extreme form, pathological gambling is a recognized
bling is negative, such that an accumulating debt is psychiatric diagnosis in the Diagnostic and statistical
inevitable over a large number of trials. Thus, the wide- manual, version 4 (text revision) (DSM-IV-TR;

spread tendency to accept such gambles may provide American Psychiatric Association 2000), with a preva-
some useful insights into the mechanisms of human lence of around 1 per cent (Petry ez al. 2005). The
irrationality. However, in addition to the financial severity of gambling involvement is thought to lie on
considerations, it is probable that gambling is also a continuum, and the label of ‘problem gambling’