of normal controls (as also reflected by the normal this AR allele are bred to males of an AMH-Cre
weight of male accessory sex tissues) and although mouse strain (different from the one described
LH levels are not significantly increased, SCARKO above), inversion of exon 1 is observed with selective
mice display a clear disturbance in Leydig cell develop- ablation of the AR in SC. Surprisingly, however, the
ment (De Gendt et al. 2005). From day 20 onwards reduction in testis weight is less pronounced than in
the number of Leydig cells is reduced by approxi- the SCARKO or S-AR ’ (60% of the control versus
mately 40 per cent. The remaining Leydig cells 28% and 29%), the block in spermatogenesis is
display an increase in size that probably contributes observed at the level of the transition of RST into
to the ultimately normal levels of androgens. The EST, and the reduction in Rhox5 expression is less
mechanism(s) by which AR ablation in SC affect(s) pronounced than in the SCARKO. Taken together,
Leydig cell development remain(s) elusive. Known these data suggest that in this model the knockout of
SC-derived growth factors such as platelet-derived the AR in SC is less complete, conceivably owing to
growth factor alpha (PDGF-A) (decreased production the fact that Cre-mediated inversion is in principle
in SCARKO) as well as unknown factors probably reversible.
contribute (Tan er al. 2005).

Two other models with an SC-selective ablation of the
AR have been described. The first one (the S-AR” (c) Selective ablation of the AR in germ cells,
mouse) strongly resembles the SCARKO model peritubular myoid or Leydig cells
(Chang et al. 2004). Here too, exon 2 is targeted for Conditional knockouts ablating the AR in testicular
excision and SC-selective Cre expression is obtained cells other than SC have also been generated. A
using the same AMH-Cre strain described above. germ-cell-selective knockout (G-AR ”) was produced
Only slight differences in phenotype are observed. using a mouse strain expressing Cre under the control
The S-AR~’” shows hypotestosteronaemia and a of the synaptonemal complex protein 1 (Sycp1) gene
4.5-fold increase in LH levels suggesting a more promoter (Tsai et al. 2006). This promoter becomes