Figure 2. Effects of plant species richness (a) on annual above-ground plant biomass production in the BIODEPTH experi-
ment and (6) on annual total plant biomass production in the Cedar Creek experiment. Average biomass production increased
with plant diversity across the eight sites in the BIODEPTH experiment, an effect that became stronger through time in the
Cedar Creek experiment. In (a) lines are regression slopes and symbols (staggered for clarity) are richness level means and
standard errors: filled squares = Germany, line 1; filled circles = Portugal, line 2; filled triangles = Switzerland, line 3; filled
diamonds = Greece, line 4; open squares = Ireland, line 5; open circles = Sweden, line 6; open diamonds = Sheffield
(UR), line 7 and Silwood Park (UR), line 8. Modified from Hector et al. (2002) and Tilman et al. (2001).

These experimental results, however, generated a hypotheses. This one was no exception and combined
vigorous debate within the scientific community. all three problems. Therefore, the first step in its reso-
Although they were consistent with expectations from lution was a theoretical advance in the conceptual
niche theory, other theories suggested that overyielding framework in which the experiments were being
(i.e. the fact that mixtures of several species yield more conceived and interpreted. New theoretical work
than expected based on the yield of these species in identified two main classes of mechanisms by which
monoculture) and niche differentiation might not be biodiversity influences productivity or other ecosystem
the rule in plant communities. This prompted other processes, leading to two types of biodiversity effects:
hypotheses about the mechanisms that could generate (i) functional complementarity—the complementarity
the effects observed in the experiments. In particular, effect, and (ii) selection of particular functional traits
the ‘sampling effect’ hypothesis proposes that mean that affect species’ competitive abilities—the selection
biomass production increases with plant species rich- effect (Loreau 2000). This apparently straightforward
ness in experiments simply because of the increased clarification was instrumental in resolving the debate
probability of including a highly productive species in over biodiversity experiments in several ways. First, it
high-diversity plots (Huston 1997). Though sometimes became clear that biodiversity matters only for ecosys-
heated, this debate ultimately revealed two of the main tem functioning to the extent that it provides
strengths of the new biodiversity and ecosystem func- phenotypic trait variation, or functional diversity,