So, while the evidence strongly points to the chloro- Another valuable service Elde et al. (2007) perform
plasts being derived from the cyanobacteria, and is to warn us against the uncritical reliance of assuming
most probably those with heterocysts (Deusch et al. that similar structures are necessarily so because of
2008), various workers have stressed that the sampling common descent. This may be the appropriate default
of extant cyanobacterial genomes is by no means com- position, but one major contribution of the molecular

plete and that extrapolation to ancestral forms living revolution is to show repeatedly that similarity does
perhaps 2 billion years ago is not straightforward not automatically equate with homology. Very many
(Larkum et al. 2007). Combine this with the ever pre- examples could be given (Conway Morris 2003), but
sent difficulties of phylogenetic reconstruction, not among the most startling concerns the recognition
least long-branch attraction, then the monophyly of that in the insects the olfactory transduction proteins
chloroplasts (and mitochondria) may well be only a (e.g. Benton 2006) follow the classic seven-helices
default position. In fact, this is only one example of a transmembrane arrangement exemplified by the
general problem in evolution, which in a nutshell has opsins, but the former clearly have a completely separ-
to decide if the obvious differences are the result of ate origin (Sato et al. 2008; Wicher et al. 2008). Given
(unremarkable) divergence as against an over-looked these proteins are the cheek-by-jowl (or the nearest
polyphyly. As Howe et al. (2008) stressed, the wielding arthropodan equivalent) to the visual opsins, and
of Ockham’s razor effectively pre-disposes the given also that in other animals all the transduction

conclusion to monophyly. proteins (including opsins) appear to belong to a
In the case of the chloroplasts, a further reason for single large family (G-protein coupled receptors), it
caution are the various instances of algal endosymbio- is curious that in the case of the insects they have re-

sis, of which one of the most striking is the invented the molecular wheel (and, of course, the
incorporation of a cyanobacterium (quite separate overall configuration of the olfactory process is itself