of the key roles for sleep is the integration of hippocam- existing competitors until they have been incorporated
pal memories. Therefore, we can expect changes in into the neocortical route. It might also suggest that
neural representation of novel words following sleep, the hippocampal route would have to operate more
with shifts in the balance between hippocampal and slowly than a purely neocortical recognition process
neocortical representations. These changes may be and consequently that consolidation should serve to
associated with facilitated recognition of the novel speed-up recognition of recently learned words.
words or access to their meanings, and by increases
in the extent to which novel words influence the
recognition of existing words. 3. BEHAVIOURAL EVIDENCE FOR

Although hippocampal learning means that new COMPLEMENTARY PROCESSES
form—meaning mappings can be acquired swiftly, IN WORD LEARNING
there may be computational consequences of the fact As we have seen in the previous section, the CLS
that the new mapping is kept separate from the existing account makes specific predictions concerning the
mappings. In particular, there may be time-course neuroanatomical substrates of word learning and the
differences in terms of the speed of access of newly functional characteristics of these processes. In par-
learned and existing words, depending on how quickly ticular, the CLS account predicts changes in the
the two routes operate. Gaskell & Marslen-Wilson time-course of recognition of both novel and pre-
(1999, 2001) argued that one advantage of a PDP- existing words as a consequence of new learning and
style architecture for spoken-word recognition was offline consolidation. It is only once consolidated
that the state of the output units of the network into neocortical representations that newly learned
directly reflects the likelihoods of the lexical candi- words (e.g. captick) should be recognized quickly and
dates. For example, given the partial speech input efficiently, and be able to compete with existing
/keeptI/, the network output would be a ‘blend’ of the words like captain. In this section we will review the
distributed representations of the two matching existing literature on the time-course of identification