between lexicality and stimulus repetition with to overnight consolidation), another group of items
responses in left posterior STG and right peri-auditory was familiarized around 4h before scanning (learned
areas, i.e. a reduced response for second presentations but not consolidated) and a third group presented
of words, and an enhanced response for second pre- only in the scanner (untrained controls). This exper-
sentations of pseudowords. Thus, in the absence of a imental design allows a test of interactions that
task-based explanation of response changes, repetition reflect the impact of initial learning alone and the
effects can differentiate words and pseudowords. additional effect of an overnight delay between training
Gagnepain and colleagues suggest that response and testing on response differences between words and
increases for pseudowords reflect long-term encoding pseudowords. The design does not allow any effects
of previously unfamiliar items. However, these increases found to be necessarily associated with sleep as
were observed in regions close to auditory cortex that opposed to an extended period of consolidation
showed an elevated response to pseudowords in our awake. However, given the behavioural data reviewed
meta-analysis. This interaction serves to increase the previously (Dumay & Gaskell 2007) and the fact that
neural response difference between pre-existing words the same-day training also included ample time for
and pseudowords, rather than decreasing this effect as awake consolidation (4 h), sleep is likely to be the prin-
predicted by figure 3d. Thus, the reactivation of cipal driver of neocortical changes observed in the
recently acquired pseudoword representations has comparison of items learnt on the same or previous
the opposite effect on measured neural activity to the day to scanning. Comparison of untrained words and
difference between familiar words and unfamiliar pseu- pseudowords also permitted an assessment of simple
dowords. This interaction profile is reminiscent of that lexicality effects as shown in the meta-analysis. How-
observed in occipital and posterior fusiform regions in ever, perhaps because the tasks used depend on
studies of neural repetition for written words (Fiebach processing the surface form of speech, elevated
et al. 2005) and faces (Henson er al. 2000, 2002), responses were observed for pseudowords compared
which similarly differentiate familiar and unfamiliar with words and not vice versa. We will discuss in the
items. In each of these studies, repetition effects for concluding section the implications of the lack of an