The CLS model (McClelland et al. 1995; are directed to the relevant system according to their
O’Reilly & Rudy 2000; Norman & O’Reilly 2003) type. Thus, new declarative knowledge should be pro-
provides a potential solution to this stability—plasticity cessed by the neocortical route as well as the
dilemma (Carpenter & Grossberg 1988). McClelland hippocampal route even though the effect of the neo-
et al. described a dual-memory system model in cortical exposure may be limited, given the gradual
which the main (neocortical) memory system operates nature of learning in that system.
using a learning algorithm producing distributed rep- Bayley et al. (2008) tested the prediction that some
resentations, as described above. This network has limited knowledge can be supported solely through
the ability to retain stable memories for long periods, neo-cortical learning in two amnesics with near com-
despite changes in the form of the input (i.e. to gener- plete damage to the hippocampus and associated
alize), and the structure of the network (i.e. robustness medial temporal lobe structures. Previous research
to damage). A second, hippocampal, system provides had suggested that these amnesics showed no
plasticity and can acquire new episodes without inter- memory of post-onset facts and faces in conventional
ference from previously or subsequently learned tests of recognition or recall (Bayley & Squire 2005).
knowledge. This network is distinguished by its use of | However, in tests which permit participants to base
more sparse or near-localist representations, allowing their responses on feelings of familiarity (e.g. picking
representational independence and a means for swift a famous face from non-famous foils), both amnesics
learning of new patterns without overwriting existing showed evidence of some declarative knowledge
knowledge. These rapidly learned representations in acquired post-lesion although both were well below
the hippocampal system can then be used to support control performance. This result fits with the idea
slower, interleaved learning within the cortical system. that the neocortex can incorporate new declarative
The CLS model has been applied to a broad range information to some extent, even when interactions
of memory phenomena such as the recollection/ with the hippocampal system are _ unavailable
familiarity distinction in human recognition memory (see also Duff et al. 2006). We will return to this
(e.g. Norman & O’Reilly 2003) and discrimination question in §4 where we consider the impact of