
[2)
|

B

Figure 2. Contrasts between paraphyletic (ancestral) and polyphyletic groups. (a) The special case used by Hennig (1974) to
claim that there is no cladistic difference between them because both have the same common ancestor (A) and an identical
ancestral branching pattern. (6) A more realistic case where the three black-circle taxa do not have the same last common
ancestor as the white-circle group, but have a different last common ancestor (B) which also has a different phenotype (black
square) from A and from themselves. Case (6) shows that Hennig’s claim for cladistic equivalence between paraphyletic and
polyphyletic taxa lacks generality and rested on a cunningly chosen exceptional example. A paraphyletic group includes its
last common ancestor and a polyphyletic one does not, a key fact partially concealed by Hennig misleadingly putting the
same-sized box around both groups; to have correctly represented paraphyly the lower box should have included A, as it
does in (6), where the obvious monophyly (single origin) of the paraphyletic white-circle taxon is much clearer than in
Hennig’s tendentious figure. The figure on the right also more strongly makes the point that the difference between poly-
phyly and paraphyly lies in the shared defining character (white circle) of the paraphyletic group having had a single origin,
whereas the shared defining character of the polyphyletic group had three separate origins, i.e. a strongly contrasting phy-
logenetic history. Moreover, in (b) taxa 1 and 2 evolved black circleness in parallel from separate but phenotypically similar
white-circle ancestors, whereas taxon 3 evolved it convergently from a cladistically and phenotypically more distinct black-
square ancestor. It should be obvious that classifying white-circle taxa together is phylogenetically sound, i.e. they have a
shared white-circle history, whereas classifying the black-circle ones together is unsound—being strongly contradicted by
the lack of shared black-circle history. Unlike (a), (6) is a proper phylogeny with all ancestors and phenotypes shown; ignor-
ing ancestral phenotypes makes nonsense of phylogeny. Cladistic aversion to paraphyletic groups, and lumping of paraphyly
and polyphyly as ‘non-monophyly’, are logically flawed and anti-evolutionary (see also Cavalier-Smith (1998) which explains