sugar phosphates across a particular membrane of which 1s the terminal enzyme in the DOXP pathway
the apicoplast. On the other hand, it remains to be catalysing the simultaneous production of IPP and
established if the pPTs in Plasmodium spp., Toxoplasma | DMAPP (Rohrich et al. 2005). There is thus a sub-
and Theileria do indeed span over multiple membranes _Stantial requirement to generate reduced Fd, so
as has been argued for T: gondii or whether other, as yet where does the NADPH that delivers the electrons
unidentified proteins like OEP21 on the outer envel- Fd come from?
ope of chloroplast (Bolter et al. 1999), which In plants the pentose phosphate pathway can gener-
transports anions, exist in the parasites to facilitate  t® NADPH, but no pentose phosphate pathway is
the transport of charged substrates like sugar  @PParent in the apicoplast of P falciparum (Ralph
phosphates across the membranes of the apicoplast. er al. 2004). Another source of NADPH in plant plas-
Intriguingly, genome mining also detected distant tids is part of a plastid glycolytic pathway for
pPT homologues in Cryptosporidium spp. despite the the conversion of GA3P to 1,3-diphosphoglycerate
fact that the apicoplast has been lost in this family of (1,3-DPGA) by GAPDH but again this option
apicomplexan parasites (Zhu et al. 2000). pPTs are | 2PPears to be lacking in apicoplasts (Ralph er al.
part of a large family of drug metabolite transporters 2004). At this stage, our best guess for a source of
that have varied roles in eukaryotic cells and localize reduced cofactor in the apicoplast is to invoke a reverse
to several different membranes (Martin & Herrmann direction of the classic redox shuttle that exports redu-
1998; Weber er al. 2006). Further experimental work cing power from photosynthetic plastids (Fleige er al.

will hopefully clarify the origins and current functions 2997). A reverse triose phosphate/3-phosphoglycerate
of pPTs in apicoplasts. (3-PGA) shuttle has been proposed to transfer triose

phosphates from the cytosol to the apicoplast in

exchange for 3-PGA, which effectively results in the