gous mutations are modulated by their dominance h. vide more precise statements on the DME of

The correlation between / and s is typically strongly advantageous mutations.
negative, which suggests that the properties of under-
lying biochemical reaction networks are usually
pivotal for determining dominance (Charlesworth 3. THEORIES ON THE POPULATION GENETICS
1979; Kacser & Burns 1981; Phadnis & Fry 2005). OF MUTATIONS

Of course not all mutations are harmful, and the Important questions to be addressed include (i) pre-
occasional fitness increasing mutations drive adaptive _ diicting the fate of individual mutations such as their
evolution. In this issue Orr (2010) points out how fixation probability Pax and times to loss Tigss or fix-
some intriguing statements can be made about advan- ation Tgx in a population, (ii) how a given flux of
tageous mutations beyond the fact that they are usually | ™utations will impact properties of a population
rare and difficult to observe. They include (i) back Such as nucleotide diversity (7a, ms), divergence
mutations that occur if a large enough number of (Ka, Ks), survival or the rate of evolution of quantitat-
slightly deleterious mutations was previously fixed, ive traits, (iii) how the fates of different mutations will
possibly at a time when the effective population size affect each other, (iv) how quantitative genetic vari-
was smaller (Charlesworth & Eyre-Walker 2007), ation is maintained, and (v) the estimation of
(ii) compensatory mutations that at least partially evolutionary parameters of populations and species
repair some harmful effects at the molecular level from DNA sequence patterns (e.g. recombination
(e.g. Burch & Chao 1999; Innan & Stephan 2001; tate Ne, etc.).
Kern & Kondrashov 2004), (iii) quantitative trait Theories to investigate some of these questions can
mutations that can either increase or decrease the value be categorized by the complexity of the models
of a trait with an impact on fitness (e.g. Keightley & | a8sumed and by their general approach: those
Halligan 2009), (iv) resistance mutations that are part restricted to single sites, in which all mutations are