and stabilizing selection together with a demographic where U, is the effective mutation rate depending on
model of within-host dynamics (jointly modelling the mutation model and U, =1,/K (equation (3.5))
viral and host cell dynamics). In contrast to previous _ jg the critical mutation rate for extinction (where the
studies (Gerrish & Garcia-Lerma 2003; Bull ev al. constant K is given in equation (3.3)). This critical
2007; Bull & Wilke 2008), the present model rate U, only depends on the fitness effects of non-
assumes that single mutations have variable (gamma lethal mutations (a,5), and proportion of lethal
distributed) effects on Malthusian fitness (growth mutations (p,), and on the maximal growth rate of
rate), in agreement with empirical data (Sanjuan the optimal genotype (r,). When the effective mutation
et al. 2004; Carrasco et al. 2007; Domingo-Calap rate is high enough (U,> Uz. equation (3.5)), the
et al. 2009). To do So, we use a fitness landscape equilibrium cell density becomes so small that extinc-
model of stabilizing selection . for an arbitrary tion is effectively certain within a short time. With
(unknown) set of underlying traits. We then make finite populations, full extinction at U > U, may not
use of the fact that, at the high mutation rate induced always happen instantaneously, but a very sharp
by mutagens, classical models of mutation—selection decrease in population density is observed, at U
balance, based on a Gaussian distribution for the values slightly below our theoretical U., owing to
phenotype at equilibrium (Lande 1980), are accurate stochastic effects (figures 2 and 3).

(Turelli 1984). These models thus provide a relevant These results were confirmed, for both infection-
and well-developed framework to study RNA virus dependent mutation or constant mutation models, by
fitness and phenotypes under the joint action of  jndividual-based simulations that accounted for the
selection and mutation. For more realism, we also stochasticity that was neglected in the model (figures 2
add a class of lethal mutations (not described in ang 3). The mean transmission rate decreases pro-

the former landscape models), in a way akin to  portionately to 1/U. which was also confirmed by
sequence space models. In our model the population simulations (not shown).