maintenance of an undifferentiated state (Filipponi the most restricted expression (limited to singles,
et al. 2007), similar to the role suggested for Plzf in pairs and chains of four), while PLZF and SALL4

haematopoietic precursor cells (Reid et al. 1995). are also expressed by larger chains of 8 and 16 Aq
Similar knock-out and over-expression studies spermatogonia.
implicate glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor Similar observations of molecular heterogeneity

(GDNF) and its receptor GFRal in stem cell self- among undifferentiated A,, Ap, and A, spermatogonia
renewal (Meng et al. 2000). GDNF signalling has have been reported in several recent studies (Tokuda
since been shown to be required for im vitro expansion et al. 2007; Grisanti et al. 2009; Sada et al. 2009;
of SSCs, and it has been demonstrated that a combi- Suzuki et al. 2009; Zheng er al. 2009). The functional
nation of GDNF and soluble GFRal is most significance of this heterogeneity remains to be deter-
favourable for the self-renewal of SSCs in vitro mined. Through the combination of FACS and
(Kubota et al. 2004a,b; see below). Finally, knock-out MACS analyses, transplantation, genetic models and
studies implicate Sox3 in the differentiation of the ear- histochemical approaches, the phenotype of rodent
liest germ cells (Raverot et al. 2005). The latter study SSCs is beginning to emerge. A list of putative SSC
indicated that Ngn3 expression is dependent on SOX3 and undifferentiated spermatogonia markers is pro-
and suggested that SOX3 may act directly or indirectly vided in table 1 along with the experimental evidence
through Ngn3 to regulate spermatogonial differentiation used to characterize each marker.
(Raverot et al. 2005).

In addition to data derived from flow cytometry,
genetic models and transplantation, immunohisto- 8. THE SPERMATOGONIAL STEM CELL NICHE
chemistry in tissue sections or intact seminiferous SSCs reside within a specialized microenvironment
tubules (whole mount) has been widely used to inves- called ‘niche’ that regulates testicular homeostasis by