larly depression [42], and is also associated with While individuals are born with varying disgust sensi-
impaired physical health, presumably through chronic tivity traits (which may or may not be adaptive in
activation of stress mechanisms [43]. However, the current environments), there are also adaptive advan-

reason for the persistence of such an apparently mala- tages to being able to modify one’s disgust sensitivity
daptive personality trait may be that it helped to according to one’s current physiological state. There
reduce the risk of predation and accidents in danger- are times when one may be more vulnerable to patho-

ous ancestral environments [44]. Given that there is gens; upregulating disgust sensitivity and hence
covariance between neuroticism and disgust sensitivity concern for hygiene may thus be adaptive. Equally,
scores [45] and that parasites were one of the biggest there may be states in which it is advantageous to
dangers in ancestral environments, it is probable that lower one’s disgust sensitivity—when hungry or short
disgust sensitivity is, in fact, a component of the of suitable mates, for example.
neuroticism trait. Indeed many animals display stable When physiological immunity is compromised, the
‘personality’ traits [46,47]. For example, it has probable costs of infection are greater and disgust sen-
been shown that shy sunfish (Lepomis gibbosus) carry sitivity should increase. This interaction between
different types of parasite from bold sunfish, presum- physiological immunity and the behavioural immune
ably because the differences in their behaviour mean system has been termed the ‘compensatory prophy-
that they are exposed to different levels of parasite laxis hypothesis’ by Fessler & Navarrete [51]. In one
risk [47]. recent study, participants who reported more frequent
Malfunctions of the disgust system can be seen as infections had both higher disgust sensitivity and more
extreme trait variation. For example, some forms of | ruminations about contamination and disease [52].
obsessive compulsive disorder are thought to be related Women undergo adaptive immunosuppression after
to excessive disgust sensitivity [48], while those with a ovulation and during the first trimester of pregnancy
genetic predisposition to Huntingdon’s disease have in order for the maternal immune system to be able