been found to be stronger among people who feel per- years ago finally allowed us to ‘see’ pathogens. Pasteur
sonally vulnerable to germs and disease (as measured & Koch popularized the idea that invisible germs
by the PVD scale) [102]. More particularly, results caused disease, and the idea has now caught on
showed that higher levels of PVD predicted stronger globally, perhaps because the notion of an invading

anti-immigrant attitudes towards those from subjec- parasitic life form is so exquisitely disgusting [13].
tively foreign locations. There was no such effect on The scientific method has also allowed us to determine
attitudes towards culturally familiar immigrant popu- the most effective and cost-effective methods of

lations. It thus seems probable that the intervening disease prevention, so as to inform health policy inter-
variable that can explain the observed relationship nationally [105]. We have thus moved from the
between pathogens and cultural characteristics is, instinctive practice of safe hygiene, to more educated
in fact, disgust. A similar effect was observed in approaches. However, the ancient emotion of disgust
World of Warcraft (a web-based multi-player retains its power; a recent hygiene promotion campaign
game). When a plague of ‘Corrupt blood’ began to in Ghana successfully elicited disgust to increase rates
kill up to half of the players, they began to avoid big of handwashing nationally [106]. We now plan to test
cities [103]. whether promoting hygiene as good manners is an

A final possibility is that selection is operating on effective disease control strategy.
social groups. Those groups with the strongest collec-
tive anti-pathogen defences, such as strong norms
about manners or avoiding strangers, outcompete 9. CONCLUSIONS
those groups without. Using a model which carefully We have seen that disgust, hygiene behaviour and cul-
spells out the links in this adaptive system thus helps ture form an interlinked adaptive system, which has
reasoning about the ways in which a complex set of | long served to reduce the dangers of disease. We