the Special Report on Emissions Scenarios (SRES) in the Foresight Project. We present the results for
(Nakicenovic et al. 2000) that underlie the global emis- the specified regions and countries in tabular and
sion scenarios used by the Intergovernmental Panel for graphical form.

Climate Change (IPCC). This was followed by three

rounds of probabilistic projections at the level of 13

regions (which were all published in the pages of 2. DIMENSIONS CONSIDERED IN POPULATION
Nature: Lutz et al. 1997, 2001, 20086). The IIASA PROJECTIONS

projections come from a distinctly scientific back- For many users the most important piece of infor-
ground, which is illustrated by the fact that in its mation expected from population projections is the
publication (e.g. Lutz et al. 2004a) much more space __ future total size of the population; for many policy
is used for justifying and discussing methods and and research questions other dimensions of the com-
assumptions than for presenting results. Recently, position of the population are also of interest. The
IIASA developed (in collaboration with Eurostat and dimensions that will be explicitly discussed here are
the UK Office of National Statistics) a new approach age, sex, rural/urban place of residence, educational
for evaluating substantive arguments about alternative  @ttainment, labour force participation, parity status,
assumptions on possible future trends based on large household status and health status. All these dimen-
numbers of questionnaires ascertaining the evaluation | sions have in common that they are properties of
of alternative arguments by experts. This is currently ach individual member of the population which are,
being translated (together with Oxford University) at least in theory, observable and measurable. They
into a new set of science-based population projections can hence be called observable sources of population
for all countries in the world by age, sex and level of heterogeneity. These dimensions are not only interest-