size and structure as well as the levels of fertility and stabilize or even decline in size after a peak during
mortality in a given country in the starting year of the second half of the twenty-first century. This discus-

the projections. While this tends to be well documen- sion was, in part, triggered by an article published in
ted in industrialized countries, there are major gaps of | Nature in 2001 entitled The end of world population
information, in particular, in Africa and parts of Asia. growth (Lutz et al. 2001), which indicated that there

For many countries the information is only based on was an 80-90% chance that the world population
sample surveys and for some countries even such would reach a peak before 2100 and start to decline
information is not available. While the UN Population thereafter. Whether or not such a peak will actually
Division makes heroic efforts to come up with popu- occur and at what level and how steep the following
lation estimates for all countries in the world, the decline will be is primarily a function of the assump-
fact that many numbers referring to the recent past tions made about long-term fertility levels in
have to be adjusted in every new assessment round different parts of the world.

as new information becomes available shows how dif- When it comes to global population projections
ficult this task is. But demographers have become so beyond 2050, there are only the occasionally published
used to having a precise point estimate for any demo- UN long-term projections as well as the HASA world

graphic indicator, even in countries with very population projections for comparison. In 2004, the
fragmentary empirical information, that they often UN Population Division published a study entitled
forget about the uncertainty of those indicators refer- World population to 2300 (United Nations 2004) in
ring to the starting conditions when making which different long-term scenarios were presented
projections. A recent study on past projections in five for all countries in the world by extending their usual
southeast Asian countries (Khan & Lutz 2008) projections to 2050 by another 250 years. While life-