percentage of gains in total production will need to livestock production will occur in developing countries
be found from crop area expansion than has histori- (Bouwman et al. 2005). For grazing systems, this means
cally been the case (as indicated in MEA 2005). that some intensification is likely to occur. Considerable
Even in the two scenarios with little global expansion intensification is likely in mixed systems, with further
of cropland, a considerable expansion of arable land integration of crop and livestock in many places. Strong
still occurs in Africa, Latin America and partly in growth is implied for confined livestock production sys-
Asia, but this is compensated for by a decrease in tems. In the FAO scenario, for instance, at least 75 per
arable area in temperate zones. Across the assess- cent of the total growth is in confined systems, although
ments, the area in crop production increases from there are likely to be strong regional differences (e.g. less
1.4 billion ha (or 10% of Earth’s land surface) to up growth of these systems in Africa; Bruinsma 2003).
to 2.3 billion ha. As indicated by FAO, this expansion This is a continuation of historic trends. The major
is within the scope of total land available for crop pro- expansion in industrial systems has been in the pro-
duction (Bruinsma 2003). The fact that the duction of pigs and poultry, as they have short
assessments considered here agree on a rather flexible reproductive cycles and are more efficient than ruminants
continuous response of the agricultural system to in converting feed concentrates (cereals) into meat.
demand increases is interesting, as more sceptical Industrial enterprises now account for 74 per cent of the
views have also been expressed. An important world’s total poultry production, 50 per cent of pig

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)


2950 P. Smith et al. Review. Competition for land

Table 6. Descriptions of all scenarios considered in this review, not included already in table 5.
