growing urban population, including food that is more energy-, land-, water- and greenhouse gas
emission-intensive. But hundreds of millions of urban dwellers suffer under-nutrition. So the key
issues with regard to agriculture and urbanization are whether the growing and changing demands
for agricultural products from growing urban populations can be sustained while at the same time
underpinning agricultural prosperity and reducing rural and urban poverty. To this are added the
need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to build resilience in agriculture and urban develop-
ment to climate change impacts. The paper gives particular attention to low- and middle-income
nations since these have more than three-quarters of the world’s urban population and most of
its largest cities and these include nations where issues of food security are most pressing.

Keywords: urbanization; migration; food; farming; hunger

1. INTRODUCTION Much is made of the fact that in 2008, the world’s
(a) Key global changes urban population exceeded its rural population for
In 1900, worldwide, there were 6.7 rural dwellers to the first time. Less attention has been given to two
each urban dweller; now there is less than one and pro- other transitions: around 1980, the economically

jections suggest close to three urban dwellers to two active population employed in industry and services
rural dwellers by 2025. This has been underpinned exceeded that employed in the primary sector (agricul-
by the rapid growth in the world economy and in the ture, forestry, mining and fishing); and around 1940,
proportion of gross world product and of the economic- the economic value generated by industry and services
ally active population working in industry and exceeded that generated by the primary sector
services (since most industrial and service enterprises (Satterthwaite 2007). Today, agriculture provides the
are in urban areas). Globally, agricultural production livelihoods for around one-third of the world’s labour
has managed to meet the demands from a rapid force and generates 2—3% of global value added—