gate how this phenological effect on ecosystem time (Hendry & Day 2005; Devaux & Lande 2008).
productivity varies across temperate forest types and In contrast, the evolutionary lability of phenology

between spring and autumn seasons, showing that an can be limited because life-history traits are subject
extended growing season can increase net productivity to certain unavoidable constraints. The evidence for

despite increased carbon loss at high temperatures. genetic correlations limiting the short-term rate of
Thus, forecasting growing season length under adaptive change is so far surprisingly mixed (Agrawal &
future climate change in various ecosystems is immen- Stinchcombe 2009); but basic life-history trade-offs

sely important. However, forecasts of community-level are inescapable, and constraints on the evolution of
changes in phenology are problematic, given both the phenological traits may be relatively widespread (cf.
rarity of comprehensive long-term datasets and the Diggle 1999). In fact, this might explain observations
variability in phenological responses among different of apparent ‘maladaptation’ in populations that seem
species and sites. Ibanez et al. (2010) outline a hier- to be frequently mistimed to the phenology of their
archical Bayesian approach to this problem that food sources or mutualists (e.g. Zimmerman er al.
circumvents some of the limitations of more 1989). As Singer & Parmesan (2010) discuss, such
conventional statistical techniques. persistent asynchrony may be the result of trade-offs

As for the consequences of future changes in grow- with other, perhaps unmeasured, life-history com-
ing season length, Richardson et al. (2010) point out ponents (see also Ejsmond et al. 2010). Clearly,
that both spatial proxies and historical conditions are recognizing the existence of trade-offs and develop-
imperfect predictors: changes in species’ distributions mental constraints is essential for determining
will interact with phenological changes to affect eco- whether current asynchrony in fact represents a
system processes (cf. Cleland et al. 2007). Indirect negative impact of current climate change—as well as