somatic maintenance, it is also of importance to ener- standard DEB model is that individuals only interact

getics. This DEB module on isotope dynamics will via competition for resources. The standard bookkeep-
allow for the correct interpretation of the increasing ing technique to follow the performance of
amount of data becoming available on isotope ratios populations as collections of individuals is (hyperbolic)
contributing to the identification of trophic web struc- partial differential equations (PDEs). Diekmann &
tures, the reconstruction of individual life histories, Metz (2010) present a wider mathematical framework
and the tracking of the flow of elements through that removes some of the shortcomings of PDEs in
ecosystems. this context. The standard DEB model has some fea-
van Leeuwen et al. (2010) review the DEB-based tures, however, that still cause mathematical
approaches to ageing and link them to current research problems including the existence of metabolic events
at the molecular/cellular level. The authors link (birth, puberty) that lead to singularities in the
alternative ageing DEB-based modelling approaches equations, the fact that eggs are not infinitesimally
with different cellular senescence processes. This is a small and last but not least, DEB is deterministic
first step towards a fundamental understanding of (apart from the survival module). Some of these pro-
the link between mechanisms of cellular senescence blems can be removed. For example, SU-dynamics
and ageing, at the individual level. (which is used to specify feeding) is stochastic by
nature and differences between individuals can be
implemented using different parameter values.

(b) The individual level Other problems, however, are rather fundamental
The mass, energy and entropy description of all fluxes, and call for individual-based approaches or a fully sto-
provided by DEB theory, are most useful to study the chastic framework. For example, when feeding on a
internal concentration of specific compounds such as single resource in homogeneous space, the DEB
isotopes (Pecquerie et al. 2010), reactive oxygen rules imply that small (young) individuals can rather