lement daf-23(—) mutants. Ergo, they were the same mined in 1997. In August, the Ruvkun laboratory
gene. I was disappointed that we were not able to reported in Nature that daf-2 encoded the C. elegans
show this ourselves, but at the same time glad that homologue of the human insulin and IGF-1 receptors
Jim had moved the field forward so quickly. The (Kimura er al. 1997) [46]. This was a stunning finding:
Thomas laboratory thanked us for ‘communicating hormones, evolutionarily conserved hormones, con-
unpublished results that motivated us to study the trolled ageing. The sequence of daf-2 made sense from
Daf-c phenotype of age-1’ (Malone et al. 1996) [33]. the point of view of dauer formation, as IGF-1 and insu-
The Ruvkun group also showed that age-1 and daf- lin signalling were known to regulate growth and the
23 were the same gene (Morris et al. 1996) [34]. body’s response to nutrients, both of which were integral
What kinds of proteins did daf-2, daf-23/age-1 and to the process of dauer formation. However, the idea that
daf-16 encode? During the early 1990s, there was a inhibiting these essential signalling pathways, which are
frenzy of dauer-gene cloning going on in several lab- known for causing diabetes when dysfunctional, could
oratories (see Riddle & Albert 1997 [25]). In fact, slow ageing and extend lifespan was jarring to some. I
the Ruvkun laboratory was already in the process of | remember giving a talk about daf-2 at a major diabetes
cloning daf-2, daf-23 and daf-16 when we discovered meeting, and being told by a rather forceful member of
that daf-2 and daf-16 affected ageing. We were of — the audience that such mutations would never extend
course very interested in learning more about the mol- the lifespan of a mammal. They would just cause dia-
ecular roles of these genes in ageing. When I first told betes. This was Morris White, a world expert in
Gary at a meeting that daf-2 mutants were long lived, he insulin signalling, who later became my friend and
(like most members of the worm field) did not seem to went on to report that mouse mutations disrupting the
be interested in ageing. ‘Ageing? You mean, you look at insulin and IGF-1-pathway gene IRS2 extended lifespan
old worms?’ he said. However, being a curious person (Taguchi et al. 2007) [47]. (Interestingly, these
and fantastic scientist, he soon seemed to have a mutations also increased blood glucose levels. Reducing
change of heart. A few weeks later, when we asked insulin/IGF-1 signalling is now thought to extend life-
him whether he would share sequence information span, at least in part, by generating a ‘danger signal’