potential role of allocentric and spatiotopic reference what we call spatiotopy actually be a case of ‘object-
frames in supporting visual integration and visual otopy’ or, more generally, of event perception
memory updating [8,35,36]. Second, non-oculocentric [43,48]? For example, consider a simple event such

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2011)


Introduction. Visual stability D. Melcher 471

as a two-frame motion stimulus, in which a stimulus when making a cup of tea seems to depend on a
changes its location or shape in the second frame. representation of the scene that allows us to quickly
This apparent motion event is perceived, across the locate and grasp the teacup that we had seen several
saccade, in external spatiotopic coordinates rather seconds earlier. In fact, we are remarkably efficient in
than in retinal coordinates [49-51]. In this motion the use of eye and body movements in natural tasks.
task, as in real life, the challenge for the brain is not This ability to keep track of the task-relevant items in
to remap all of space but simply to keep track of a the scene, which requires updating of transsaccadic
single object which is undergoing a transformation as memory, would seem to be an important component
part of a temporal event. This capacity to perceive of our subjective experience of visual stability.
events across saccades has received much less Moreover, the ‘gist’ of a scene, both in terms of its
attention than studies of single stimuli which appear semantic meaning and the global statistics of the
or disappear around the time of saccades. In recent environment [62] may play a role in visual stability,
years, however, a number of studies have begun to since the gist is highly robust to eye and body move-
consider the perception of multi-stimulus events ments. Thus, both the details (object identities and
across a saccade, and have shown that perception of — location) and the ‘non-details’ (the gist) of the scene
the post-saccadic stimulus can be influenced by the provide reassurance that our environment is stable