a major challenge is assessing the extent of short-term Ecological Network (www.lternet.edu) and the National
and often local changes in ecological communities Ecological Observatory Network (www.neoninc.org).
relative to the underlying or baseline change that all Researchers often use spatial patterns as a surrogate
communities experience. This is essential because for temporal ones—but these are not necessarily equiv-
the human population, through its resource use and alent. There is an urgent need to develop a fuller
technology, can cause rapid changes in ecosystems. understanding of temporal patterns of diversity and to
Additionally, conservationists working over short devise improved methods of assessing these. This is
time scales need to know whether the practices they the subject matter of the introductory group of papers.
have implemented have made a difference. There is Ever since R. A. Fisher, who proposed the first
no question that large-magnitude events such as gla- ‘index of diversity’ (Fisher et al. 1943), researchers
ciations, vulcanism and sea-level rise profoundly have been developing metrics that can be used to sum-
affect the organisms involved, but less appreciation of | marize the biological diversity of an assemblage or
the fact that ecological communities naturally vary sample. Traditional measures focus on species richness
through time. Darwin, in the quote above, considered and the relative abundance of species, but these
the species rearrangements that might occur as a result approaches make no distinctions among the species
of ‘any slight change of climate’, while MacArthur & involved. Many investigators and conservation man-
Wilson’s (1967) influential ‘theory of island biogeogra- agers would like to use an index that takes the
phy’ is underpinned by the observation that taxonomic status, or phylogenetic relatedness, of
immigration and local extinction are not just universal, species into account and a growing number of
but also play a major role in structuring communities. measures are being developed to meet this need. Our
Both environmental variability and the continuous issue begins with a paper by Anne Chao and co-
colonization and extinction of communities create authors (Chao et al. 2010) who introduce a new

natural variability of biodiversity in space and time. class of phylogenetic diversity measures sensitive to
Despite this, there is a pervasive view that habitats species abundances and phylogenetic distance, and