effect of the reprogramming factors that precedes tran- depending upon the stage of development from which
scriptional activation of ES cell-specific genes. the cell was obtained. ChIP assays revealed an increase
High-resolution, time-lapse imaging technology has in histone H3 lysine 4 dimethylation (H3K4me2) in the
also been used to identify retrospectively those cells regulatory and coding regions of pluripotency genes in
from which iPS cell colonies were derived following the reprogrammed nuclei. Interestingly, the extent of histone
treatment of secondary somatic cells carrying doxycycline H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) varied and was
inducible vectors described above [84]. Strikingly, all iPS concluded to be a function of the timing of reprogram-
cell colonies arose from small, fast-dividing cells that first ming. H3K4me3 was not at all seen on genes such as
became apparent soon after induction. These cells had a B-globin that are not transcribed, but was present on plur-
cell cycle length of 12.2 + 2.8h after the first division, ipotency genes in some nuclei [89].
which was strikingly shorter than that of published figures There is some evidence that axolotl oocyte cytoplasm
for embryonic fibroblasts (18—22 h), but very similar to has a greater ability than that of Xenopus to remodel
that of murine ES cells (11—16h). The fact that all of | mammalian chromatin [92]. There were dramatic
the iPS cells were derived from the small cells emphasizes changes in gene expression within 6h of treatment in
the importance of this early change and arguesinfavourof breast cancer cells permeabilized before immersion in
there being a single important step at this stage. It will be extract, including the expression of some genes that
interesting to see how this can be resolved with the model were silenced in the cell line. This expression occurred
which is often accepted of an unpredictable, inefficient without DNA replication, and was associated with
progress through several independent steps—the stochas- demethylation of DNA and removal of repressive his-
tic model of iPS cell production. tone marks at the promoters of tumour suppressor
genes. This remodelling activity was found only in pro-
phase oocytes and not in extracts from ovulated eggs.
6. MOLECULAR MECHANISMS OF Furthermore, a similar activity was present in only
REPROGRAMMING IN OTHER MODEL SYSTEMS limited amounts in mouse ES cell extracts [92,93].
In addition to direct observations during iPS cell These studies in amphibians provide opportunities for