volume (at ~1g cm? this= ~6.4 x 10°°m? = 2 x build a foundation for comparing quiescence in
101? AU? = 6 x 10°? cubic light years) larger than the different systems, I begin with considerations of
solar system (~2.7 x 10° AU, assuming a sphere the conditions and signals that induce quiescence
enclosing the planetary disc), with boundaries expand- in metazoans.
ing through the universe at a greater speed than the
speed of light. This somewhat silly mathematical exercise
illustrates the awesome potential of exponential growth. 4. SIZE CONTROL AND COUPLING TO
Clearly, it is unsustainable, and the implications are gen- | QUIESCENCE
eral. Although a 20 min doubling time is exceptionally Animals vary enormously in size [7]. Just among mam-
fast, the 3 days encompassed by this calculation are a mals, the range is about 10’-fold from a 15 g mouse to
small part of the approximately 3.6 Gyr of life on the a 150 tonnes blue whale. But increasing scale requires
Earth. Thus, the available resources, as Malthus pointed a change in the body structure to accommodate the
out, will eventually limit the growth of even slowly grow- fact that attributes such as weight and limb strength
ing organisms. Micro-organisms benefit from an ability do not maintain the same proportion as _ size
to survive periods of limitation in quiescence if they increases—weight increases in proportion to the cube
then can emerge from this quiescence and flourish of linear dimensions, whereas limb strength increases
when conditions are again favourable. This advantage in proportion to the square of linear dimensions.
creates a powerful evolutionary drive for effective forms Thus, each body plan functions optimally only within
of quiescence. a limited range of sizes. Although the mammalian
If quiescence appeared early in evolution, then this embryo can grow many orders of magnitude in utero
capability might have been passed on and so spread during foetal growth, mammals in every size range
widely in phylogeny. Consistent with this, we find well- grow roughly 20-fold from birth to maturity, at which
developed nutritional control of growth and proliferation time growth ceases [7]. From this, it appears that
in diverse organisms. Although spread of a primordial physical constraints dictate a widespread developmental
regulatory scheme could result in a common regulatory pattern that limits body size to a narrow range compati-