organisms, even when we have sparse information rate predictions of the patterns of biomass dynamics
about their biology. Including evolution may make and community composition over a region of northeast-
modelling with limited data more straightforward. ern North America spanning about 15° of longitude
This is particularly important given the recognition and 10° of latitude [35]. This region spans ecosystems
that individuals experience different environments, that range from almost entirely deciduous forests in
make different life-history decisions, and therefore the south to conifer-dominated forests in the north
vary in their demographic traits, with this inter- and varies hugely in climate forcing and land-use
individual variance being important for population history. The heterogeneity of the output across the
and evolutionary dynamics. Further embedding region is driven by the differential responses of
evolution in ecological thinking would allow greater the five plant functional types within the model. An
appreciation of the relationship between biological interesting observation is that ED2’s predictions for cer-
processes at the individual level and the population, tain parameters begins to drop off in the highest
community or ecosystem results of these processes. If latitudes, probably because of the fact that the domi-
novel environmental change imposes selection pressures nant late-successional tree in this region is not found
that cause the components of an ecological system to in the site used for parametrization, raising the possi-
evolve and if this evolutionary process affects the way bility that additional functional types may be need to
that system functions, then evolution cannot be ignored. be added to the model the further it is extended away

Despite the desirability of including evolution in from the area from which its parameters are derived.
ecological models, the most successful group of | ED2 uses size- and age-structured partial differential
process-based models in ecology—the terrestrial bio- equations to approximate the first moment behaviour
sphere models do not do so [27-31]. This may be of a stochastic individual-based model [27,36]. The
due to the fact that their raison d’étre is to predict process of using such an approximation makes
changes in the forest community and so even though the model more computationally tractable but means
they have long simulated run times—typically 1000 that information is lost about individual heterogeneities.