and services emerge from ecosystem processes at logical change [40,41]. However, socio-ecological
various levels [17]. modellers already use ABMs that are well adapted to

It would be a travesty of the process-based approach integration with process-based ecological models. In
advocated here to suggest that it meant that every order to help with the endeavour of creating a
individual organism in an ecosystem needed to be modern systems ecology, there are techniques and
included in a model of that ecosystem in order to approaches that already exist in other fields and
make useful predictions about it. Not only would which can be applied to ecological systems [46]. If
such a naive exercise be extremely difficult to construct we wish to consider the creation of an ecological par-

and parametrize, but also it would be almost imposs- allel to bioinformatics, then we will need to create
ible to comprehend and would probably exceed the new tools and approaches to allow us to cope with
ability of even modern computers to run the compu- the fact that ecology has different constraints and

tations [10]. One challenge for a modern formulation advantages to molecular systems biology [48]. Further
of systems ecology will be to create models of the developing systems ecology to a point where it can
‘appropriate’ complexity. The appropriate heuristic is make useful predictions about the ecological impact
‘Einstein’s razor’: ‘everything should be as simple as of environmental change, equivalent to those regularly
possible, but no simpler’ [52]. Global circulation made by climatologists using GCMs about the future
models (GCMs) are good examples of predictive mod- state of the climate, will be demanding. Nevertheless,
elling and have developed both great explanatory and the need from society to maintain and improve its eco-
persuasive power. GCMs are process-based in the system services, all of which derive from ecological
sense that climate is an emergent property of the pro- systems, should provide sufficient imperative to over-
cesses internal to the system, yet many of those come these complexities [17]. Reaching this point
internal processes remain as black boxes and many would bring significant benefits; not only will it