strongly suggests that there is a general mechanism measurements, but was also recently demonstrated
for the secretion of all B-barrel proteins, including all for the usher B-barrel protein FimD, which, when

autotransporter classes. co-crystallized with its transport substrate, had a
The difference is the autotransport itself, an event significantly wider pore size compared with the
that we strongly believe starts after, or at most syn- apo-structure [121]. It is thus also possible that

chronously, with OM insertion, and thus represents autotransporter B-barrels are capable of such tempor-
an addition to the general OM insertion mechanism ary expansions during transport, even though such
mediated by the Bam complex. It has been suggested fluctuations were not observed in molecular dynamics
that folded or semi-folded periplasmic intermediates simulations of NalP [122]. This is probably due to the
of autotransporters exist. The experiments that lead short timescale of the simulations (10 ns), and due to
to this conclusion [32,35,119] are not necessarily a the fact that the final structure, and not a model of a
contradiction to our view, but probably demon- transport intermediate, was used.

strate a synchronization of membrane insertion and We conclude from the literature compiled in this
autotransport initiation. In detail, Ieva et al. [119] review that there is a general mechanism for autotrans-
demonstrate that in a mutant stalled in autotransport, port, where the different types of autotransporters
a protease-insensitive intermediate exists that can be follow the general route for B-barrel protein insertion
extracted using urea. Thus, it cannot be fully inserted into the OM. An extended signal peptide in many

in the membrane at this stage. But a fully folded trans- cases ensures slow processing by the Sec machinery,
port domain as well as the notion of other pre-folded to gain time for proper OM insertion before the pas-
G-barrel proteins [120] in the periplasm before mem- senger domain is released. Moreover, premature
brane insertion is unlikely. There is no system to folding in the periplasm is inhibited by the known