erty of the organization of motor commands [23,24], [44]). The influence of motor processes can also be
an argument developed by Kelso [25]. more easily controlled in audition, as eye movements are

The main rationale for this special issue is that less likely to produce confounding effects. Thirdly, and
detailed comparisons of the phenomenology of multi- perhaps most importantly, the extension from vision to

stability across modalities are now emerging, mostly other modalities strengthens the hypothesis that multi-
between vision and audition. Auditory streaming was stability is a general property of perceptual systems.
studied independently by several groups for this pur- Therefore, current research using miultistability to
pose [26-28]. For all studies, it was found that the probe cognitive processes such as attention, decision-
distributions of the random durations of switches in making and consciousness in the visual modality gains
perceptual organization were very similar to those further relevance for other modalities.
observed for visual multistability. In fact, when
measured using the same observers, the dynamics of
auditory and visual switching revealed almost identical (b) Binding stimulus information within
patterns [26]. Interestingly, bistability for streaming modalities
seemed to be the rule rather than the exception, as it Among the great variety of stimuli that evoke multi-
could be observed over a surprisingly broad range of _ stable perception, it is striking that most are based
stimulus parameters [27,28]. Similar dynamic proper- on competition in selecting and binding stimulus
ties have been observed for the verbal transformation information. An obvious case is provided by binocular
effect [29,30]. Auditory multistability has also been rivalry [45]. In this case, multistability involves a per-
reported with very different stimuli, using rhythmic ceptual selection between subsets of information from
cues [31]. two incompatible sources, one for each eye. The
Leopold & Logothetis [2] proposed that similar mech- resulting perceived image is sometimes made out of
anisms underlie binocular rivalry and ambiguous figures local patches from each of the two eyes, a phenomenon