[18-22], but we did not observe a significantly greater exchange value, and a higher upper limit would not
activation to bid versus optout items in these regions have made a significant difference in items that were
during the passive phase. not auctioned.

The auction mechanism was a unique aspect of our Our experiment dovetails with a large literature on
experiment and suggests a new way to quantify sacred the neural correlates of moral judgement [12-17].
values that is not solely dependent on self-report, but However, it differs in that it initially measured the natur-
there are assumptions behind its use. First, we al mode of processing sacred values in a way that
assume that individuals take the auction seriously. As was relatively unconstrained by a choice framework.
noted above, signing a document does not bind one This is particularly important for the scientific study
to the action that one is signing. It is therefore some- of sacred values, because one cannot ethically place
what surprising that most people did not sell all of | volunteers in real situations that would test such
their choices. The fact that participants took money values. However, recent findings in neuroeconomics
for some items and not others suggests that they have demonstrated that ‘choiceless’ brain responses
were adequately motivated to express their preferences are predictive of future actions [38,39]. Here, we find
through their choices. The upper limit of $100, how- tantalizing evidence of this for sacred values too. We
ever, placed a boundary constraint on the auction, also found that the difference in VLPFC activation
which when averaged over all items, yielded a low between optout and bid items correlated with the

value per item in expectation (the framing of the auc- individual’s level of involvement in organizations
tion explicitly instructed participants to value each (figure 4). This suggests that neural markers for sacred-
item in the $1—100 range, and all participants’ ques- ness extend to real-world decisions of group
tions about the auction pertained to how to earn the membership. Moreover, when sacred values were con-
most money). Although $100 may have been insuffi- tradicted by their opposites, we observed a significant
