demands this action makes for precision in movement skilled action execution in the stone-flaking task requires
timing; Calvin also noted that skilful hammering (as in us to focus not on particular cortical areas in isolation,
nut-cracking) requires similar patterns of brachioman- but rather on the coordinated evolution of different
ual coordination. In a case of social tool use (captive components of cortico-cerebellar systems. In particular,
apes throwing faeces or wet chow at human visitors as the marked expansion of the frontal cortico-cerebellar
they pass by the enclosure, with the projectile acting system in chimpanzees and humans appears to be con-
as a tool to elicit a desired reaction from the visitors), sistent with their increased social learning capacities,
Hopkins er al. [40] report findings of associations in exemplified in their similar learning strategies of fine
chimpanzees between aimed throwing ability and com- motor skills such as tool use.
municative ability. More interestingly, they examined Stout & Chaminade [48] meanwhile use functional
whether specific brain structures could somehow brain imaging to contrast cortical aspects of action
relate to such behavioural skills. The findings have organization in a similar Oldowan stone-flaking task
been quite surprising. In fact, they found a correlation with that involved in production of a later Lower
between aimed throwing ability and white-to-grey Palaeolithic tool type, the Late Acheulean handaxe.
matter ratios in the homologue of Broca’s area and in Whereas the Oldowan task activates cortical areas
the motor-hand area of the precentral gyrus (with the involved in visuo-motor grasp coordination (including
effects more pronounced in the hemisphere contra- anterior inferior parietal lobe and ventral premotor
lateral to the preferred throwing hand). The same cortex), but not the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), the
workers have also found that in captive chimpanzees, Late Acheulean task also activates the dorsal right
aimed throwing ability is associated with greater size of | IFG (pars triangularis), an area associated with more
the posterior cerebellum [41]. abstract action representation and greater hierarchical
No study has yet been conducted on the extent of task complexity and with possible involvement of later-
any brain morphological correlates of chimpanzee alized visuospatial working memory. This seems to
individual ability with a non-social tool in a nut- reflect the relatively complex goal hierarchy of the
cracking task, which has been described as ‘probably Late Acheulean task, which involves both a greater