mostly linked to water availability, food security and change-induced biodiversity losses, as biodiversity is
socio-political conflicts in developing regions, as well crucial for maintaining ecosystem services in drylands
to reductions and/or alterations in other ecosystem [19,131]. Climate-induced migrations and land-use
services important for human development and changes are also expected to negatively impact on
well-being. The intrinsic variability in precipitation important cultural services, such as social identity
characterizing drylands, which is inversely proportional and diversity, tourism and recreation [120,132,133].
to the total amount received [115], together with recur- To summarize, the contrasting effects of various
rent droughts promoted by phenomena such as El Nifio, global change drivers, and the complexity of the
have a direct impact on millions of people who practise responses to such drivers, challenge the elaboration
subsistence farming in drylands and whose crop yields of accurate projections on their consequences for dry-

are largely dependent on precipitation [116,117]. land ecosystems. However, the evidence accumulated
Most climatic projections agree with the fact that so far clearly indicates that global change will increase
many drylands, such as the Mediterranean Basin, wes- the degree of abiotic stress experience by multiple
tern USA, southern Africa and northeastern Brazil, organisms living in drylands, will promote important
will suffer a decrease of water resources with ongoing cli- changes in ecosystem structure and functioning and

mate change because of increases in the variability of will negatively affect the food security, health and wel-
rainfall and in the frequency and duration of droughts fare of dryland human populations. While some of
[10,30]. These climatic changes will exacerbate food these changes may not necessarily be perceived as
production and security issues. Moreover, they are negative from the ecological point of view (e.g.
likely to worsen already existing socio-political conflicts increase in WUE of dryland vegetation and positive
and limit the development of agricultural programmes, effects of shrub encroachment on carbon storage),
particularly in regions where water conflicts are already the plethora of effects expected on both biotic and
arising (e.g. Egypt, Sudan and Israel [118,119]). abiotic components, and the synergies that can be