that genetic information plays a special role. Granted, argues that the innateness concept should be replaced
environmental factors give essential causal support to by the concept of genetic representation, and its gener-
the development of an adaptive trait, just as they did alization to epigenetic and cultural inheritance systems:
when it was selected, but the information that allows inherited representation. Inherited representation is
it to be adaptive derives from the genes, not from not a direct substitute for innateness, but allows us to
the environment. That is the proposal offered by articulate the way in which selection and adaptation
Konrad Lorenz in response to critiques of the concept are central to the New Thinking. It is suited to explain-
of innateness [21]. His proposed theoretical recon- ing aspects of phenotypic development that the
struction of the innateness concept is that innate abandonment of the concept of innateness would
traits are those whose development depends on genetic leave unexplained. Section 3 makes that case, and §2
information. That line is challenged by the second lays the foundations by setting out an account of the
feature of the New Thinking identified earlier: the semantic information carried by inheritance systems
fact that much adaptively-significant information is as it applies in other biological domains.
culturally transmitted.

Although some forms of cultural evolution remain
controversial, there are a variety of ways that broadly 2 GENETIC REPRESENTATION
cultural processes accumulate adaptively-relevant (a) Information generated by natural selection
information that is relied on for the development of | om genes
adaptive phenotypes [22]. It has been argued that in The first step is to see how genetic representation
humans gene-—culture coevolution accelerated this explains what is going on with innateness claims in
process through positive feedback [6], both increasing other cases, outside human cognition. Then §3
the number of phenotypes that depend in part on argues that the concept goes particularly badly awry
gene-based adaptation, and magnifying the extent to when applied to the results of recent human evolution.
