that must be performed repeatedly is likely to be present at birth (in the zygote) and unlearnt. When

observed by those in the same social group. A restric- the developing individual absorbs a culturally trans-
tion to vertical transmission of behavioural phenotypes mitted practice, or is steered by some culturally
would also help. If parents are only inclined to demon- transmitted factor towards an adaptive phenotype,

strate useful behaviours to offspring and close kin, those are clearly cases of getting information from the
then they derive a direct fitness benefit from sharing environment. The information carried by these kinds
useful information. Interestingly, there is evidence of inherited representations is not information about
that overimitation is more common in ‘natural pedago- which a poverty of the stimulus argument would suc-
gical’ contexts [59,60]. So far natural pedagogy has ceed. It comes from (social) stimuli. The rough
mostly been studied as a modifier of when children clustering of the i-properties in other species was
are disposed to learn. If it also restricts when adults underpinned by the fact that, if an individual did not
are inclined to teach, then it could, in the evolutionary learn the adaptively-relevant information for them-
past, have constituted a system whereby lineages of be- selves, the information embodied in the adaptive
havioural phenotypes transmitted by overimitation match between a developmental outcome and the
roughly aligned with parent—offspring lineages, and environment is very likely to have been generated by

hence with biological fitness. natural selection on genes, and to have been trans-
A restriction to roughly vertical transmission will mitted to this individual genetically, in factors that
not cover anything like all of the cases. A more impor- are present in the zygote and act so as to bias the com-

tant part of the answer may lie in group selection (in plex interactive pathways of development towards the
the specific sense that between-group relative fitness adaptive phenotype. Even that rough clustering will
