more general-purpose evolved human faculties like the ecological niches [6]. These developmentally plastic

capacity for fine-grained visuomotor control, an evol- innovations depend for their development on rich
utionary approach to human cognition is usually allied support from the environment: information about
with a commitment to innate capacities. particular variable features of the developmental

A strong theme emerging from the papers in this environment, including resources and information
volume puts pressure on the idea that there are derived from the ecological niche, from parents and
innate psychological capacities at all. These are not from the wider culture [7].
blank slate empiricists or cultural determinists who The second change is a much greater reliance on
deny the importance of evolution for explaining why culturally transmitted information. Among the
we are as we are. If the New Thinking is on the right adaptively-significant information on which develop-
track, however, then innateness is not a useful concept ment depends, some concerns facts that individuals

for theorizing about recent human cognition. could not learn for themselves in their own lifetime.
Many papers in the volume emphasize domain- In these circumstances individuals do not test and con-
general adaptations: improved physical/causal under- firm for themselves that the developmental path they

standing, increased visuomotor skill, and an extended are adopting is adaptive; they rely on the information
childhood coupled with increased parental investment in their culture being a reasonably reliable guide to
[2,3]. At a recent conference on the new thinking, Eva adaptive outcomes. So human behavioural develop-

Jablonka argued that the hand is a much better meta- ment is extremely plastic, and some of that plasticity
phor than the Swiss-army knife for the special features involves sensitivity to culturally transmitted infor-
of recent human cognition [4,5]. The hand is exqui- mation [7,8]. More strongly still, it is plausible that