
types for which they were selected. Development kind). Most importantly for our purposes, human
makes use of the correlation between genes and the evolution seems to have depended in part on one or
environments in which they were selected as being a more cultural inheritance systems. In that case, some
reasonably reliable indicator that the current environ- of the information on which human phenotypic adap-
ment is conducive to the phenotypes that result. tations depend for their development derives neither
If the environment has changed in relevant ways from the genome, nor from the individual detecting
since the time of selection, that condition will no correlational information available within its own indi-
longer be in place, so the content carried by the gen- vidual experience, but from the developing individual
etic representation will be false. For example, if the reacting to information in its culture. Cultural pro-
selected phenotype depended upon the environment cesses of selection and transmission account for the
being warm, and it has since become cold, then the con- way such cultural variants carry correlational infor-
dition that the selected gene is representing—a warm mation about adaptively-significant facts.
environment—is absent. The genetic material then
continues to represent (falsely) that the environment
is warm and DNA expression and development, in (c) Genetic representation underpins some
accordance with its meta-function, faithfully produces connections between i-properties
a warm-appropriate phenotype as result. That pheno- Genetic representation explains why the properties
type is no longer good for the organism. This failure associated with the concept of innateness cluster
is explained by the fact that the content represented together in some cases. In organisms with little or no
by the zygotic DNA is now false. culture there are two main sources of adaptively-
This account of genetic representation has been relevant information. First, there is information that
developed in detail elsewhere [31-34]. It is not individuals can detect in their developmental environ-
simply a philosophers’ gloss on well-known facts ment in their lifetime. Second, there is the information
about natural selection. It has various explanatory conveyed by genetic representations (and, if they turn