emerge either by the evolution of novel variants or the
spread of pre-existing meningococci with these characteristics;
however, ten years after MCC vaccine introduction, no such

events have occurred. Virulent capsule variants of the ST-11 7.$ erogroup A vaccines for Africa

clonal complex exist, but they have not replaced the serogroup The successful introduction of the MCC vaccines stimulated
C ST-11 complex meningococci in epidemic disease. Even the interest in vaccination against the greatest burden of meningo-
introduction of serogroup W ST-11 complex meningococci coccal disease internationally: the periodic, large epidemics
into the UK, as a consequence of the Hajj outbreaks in early occurring in the ‘meningitis belt’ of sub-Saharan Africa.
2001, resulted in only a limited amount of disease [93]. The These seasonal outbreaks, first reported in 1905 and systemati-
virulent nature of the serogroup W ST-11 complex meningo- cally described by Lapeyssonnie in the mid-twentieth century
cocci is underlined by the fact that they caused about 5 per [97], are typically caused by serogroup A meningococci and
cent of all meningococcal disease in the UK in 2010/2011 [94] occur with a periodicity of 7-10 years. They frequently involve
(figure 2), although these numbers are small compared with hundreds of thousands of cases and thousands of deaths. In
the height of the serogroup C ST-11 complex epidemic. addition to this large burden of morbidity and mortality, prin-
There are a number of explanations for the lack of replace- cipally in children, the intensity of the outbreaks, which
ment of the serogroup C ST-11 complex strain. It is possible usually last a few weeks, increases their disruptive impact on
that the factors that made the epidemic clone hyperinvasive, health systems in low-income settings [98]. Attempts to control
particularly the expression of serogroup C polysaccharide cap- these outbreaks with plain polysaccharide vaccines were only
sule, were also responsible for the successful transmission of partially successful as the vaccines had to be administered
the organism and that variants with different capsules were once an outbreak had been detected, requiring the mainten-
ineffective in exploiting the niche vacated by the epidemic ance and mobilization of large stockpiles of vaccines at short
strain. Another possibility is that the spread of the serogroup notice [98].
CST-11 complex clone within the UK generated natural popu- The Meningitis Vaccine Project (MVP), a partnership of the