rate and scale, both are caused by certain clonal complexes in the vaccine [4], their impact has been constrained by the
that are associated with a particular capsule, the expression number of capsular types of these organisms and the emer-
of which appears to be important for transmission, asymp- gence of escape variants [117]. More than 90 capsular types
tomatic carriage and disease [107]. The continued success of have been described for the pneumococcus, about ten times
vaccination against these organisms depends on the continued the number seen in meningococci and H. influenzae, and
association of these characteristics. It is, unfortunately, not fully many of these are associated with invasive disease. It has,
understood why these associations are so strongly maintained, therefore, been necessary to produce multivalent vaccines
even in the face of high levels of immunization and the poten- that now cover up to 13 different serogroups [10]. As the dis-
tial for lateral gene transfer [108]. It is possible, and perhaps tribution of serotypes of pneumococci is different in different
likely, that over time these particular meningococcal strains parts of the world [118], the implementation of these vaccines
will be replaced in carrier populations with other hyper- is complicated, as a particular combination may be required
invasive meningococci, perhaps associated with different in one region but not be useful in another. More of a threat
serogroups, leading to renewed outbreaks of disease, and con- to these campaigns, however, is the fact that the association
tinued disease surveillance is required to assess this. In this of serotype with genetic type is not as marked as has been
respect, the lack of a comprehensive meningococcal vaccine seen with the serogroup C and A meningococci, and with
remains a concern [109]. H. influenzae type b. Consequently, there has been evidence
In summary, the introduction of the meningococcal conju- of the spread of invasive pneumococcal genotypes with
gate polysaccharide vaccines is a continuing success in different serotypes, which can be linked to vaccine introduc-
combating invasive meningococcal disease [73,102] as a con- tion followed by a particular invasive genotype becoming
sequence of their effectiveness in inducing herd immunity associated with a different capsular type [25]. It is not
and not, at least up to the time of writing, leading to vaccine known at the time of writing why the biology of the pneumo-
escape either by capsule switching (the acquisition of a coccus is so different from that of the meningococcus and
novel capsule by the original pathogen strain) or replacement H. influenzae in this respect.

(the replacement of the original epidemic strain with a geneti-