human natural language and signal-generating systems and evolution of language.
such as music or birdsong, which can also generate
highly complex signals, is that linguistic signals are
used to transmit equally complex thoughts from one 3. THE ROLE OF INFINITY IN FORMAL
mind to another. Although music certainly communi- | LANGUAGE THEORY
cates (e.g. mood or emotion, energy and many other Before we turn to experimental work grounded in

powerful and subtle ‘messages’), there is no direct corre- FLT, we will briefly discuss the controversial issue of
spondence between the units of music (notes, phrases, ‘infinity’ in discussions of language. This is an old
etc.) and the structure of thought. For all its power issue, nicely encapsulated in Wilhelm von Humboldt’s
and greatness, music simply cannot communicate ple- suggestions that human language makes ‘infinite use of

bian facts such as ‘the lion is in the third cave from the finite means’ [47]. Clearly, every individual human has
right’ or ‘you need to soak that nut in water and ashes a finite memory, a finite lifespan and a finite (though
for two days before you eat it’, nor can you use a musical astronomical) number of neurons and synapses. This
phrase to represent those thoughts to yourself. Indeed, if has always been accepted [3,6,48]. Nonetheless,
(as in a few isolated cases) we use musical means such as most linguists or computer scientists happily accept
drums or whistles to communicate thoughts, it ceases to that any natural language such as English or Chinese
be music and becomes language (‘drum talk’ or ‘whistle is infinite (in the sense of ‘unbounded?’), in precisely
languages’). Thus, an intimate correspondence between the same way that the set of the integers is infinite.
signal and meaning is the raison d’etre of language, and One argument for this parallels the argument for num-
the key factor differentiating it from music, and, as far bers: if someone claims to have identified the largest
as we know, the diverse signalling systems of every possible integer, you can easily prove them wrong by
other species on our planet. simply adding one to their proposed number. In the
