eg FITTTTrT rrr rr rrr rr rrr rr rrr rrr rt
3 1980 1990 2000 2010
year
Figure 1. For 30 countries where data were available, data on imported malaria and any locally acquired malaria case were analysed to estimate the reproductive
numbers for malaria, Rc, under post-elimination levels of control in each year. The results are shown as the colour of the square. The average for all years is shown
on the left, by the name of the country. The size of the square scales with the logarithm of the number of cases imported.

stable due to some changes in the vector populations, such as to explain the post-elimination reductions in Ro [30]. Changes
local elimination. Fourth, successfully eliminating countries in rainfall and its seasonal patterns could also cause some of
may not have been unusual either before or after elimination, these changes [45,46], but there is as yet no evidence that
but importation from abroad may be far less effective at rekind- these changes are responsible for large declines in trans-
ling transmission than transmission from residual foci in mission across the geographical range of malaria. The
unsuccessful countries. In the following sections, we explore apparent stability of elimination may also reflect the fact
these hypotheses, expand the discussion of the theory of trans- that only richer [47], more urbanized [48,49] countries
mission and, within that theory, examine several mechanisms achieved elimination in the first place. The GMEP also
in order to help explain the bifurcating paths. coincided with a period of rapid economic growth and devel-

opment in many countries. If growth or urbanization caused
certain countries to eliminate, it may have also helped those

3. Is elimination stable because successful countries maintain elimination.
. ? The mechanism through which wealth and urbanization
countries are unusual! influence transmission is not entirely clear and probably

Elimination may simply appear stable because the countries varies from place to place. One hypothesis is that malaria