clinical immunity has waned, malaria (at least, where Ro is systems improved and social norms changed, a much higher
below B,) is like other diseases that are highly amenable to fraction of incident malaria infections could be seen and treated
outbreak control [91]. promptly and properly, assuming sufficient health system

The value of B,, the level at which malaria can be con- capacity. Thus, changes in health-seeking behavioural norms
trolled only with drugs, will depend on many additional for malaria could help explain why malaria is difficult to get
aspects of the vector biology, parasite infections, human be- rid of in the first place, but much easier to keep it out once it
haviour, health systems, access to healthcare, seasonality is gone.
and immunity that cannot be evaluated with these simple, An open question is whether ‘stickiness’ is a robust prop-
heuristic models. Importantly, this breakpoint is made appar- erty of more realistic malaria transmission models, whether it
ent by elimination. In areas where malaria remains endemic, could be a realistic explanation for the observed stability
the relevant policy question is the value of B,, the highest of elimination, and where stickiness could be realistically
value of Ro at which malaria would remain stable following applied elsewhere. Stickiness in this model is, in fact,
elimination because of factors related only to the health highly sensitive to the fraction of incident malaria infections
system. This is of great importance for strategic planning that present with clinical symptoms, and it would almost cer-
for elimination because it tells countries how much (or alter- tainly be important in other models. More realistic models
natively where) they can relax vector control (thereby saving can, however, include spatial dynamics and heterogeneous
money) following elimination without incurring a major risk biting, various manifestations of immunity all with poten-

of resurgence. The higher Ro, the higher the fraction of cases tially different rates of waxing and waning, and most of all,


suites of interventions and protocols that reflect country pol- transmission. Notably, resistance to the dominant drug was

icies. Some preliminary simulations suggest that stickiness is another possible factor in the resurgence. A shift back to