reconcile the absence of reactivity by HI between non-adjacent ble regions of HA than humans upon natural infection.
time-points with the antigenic thrift model. The first is that HI HI assays are typically performed on post-infection antisera
assays selectively provide information on the unique strain- raised in ferrets and there is evidence suggesting that the
specific epitopes rather than the shared epitopes of limited cross-reactivities can be different to that of sera to the same
diversity: in other words that the antibodies that prevent isolate raised in mice and rabbits [14,15]. To our knowledge,
haemagglutination are directed only at the highly variable no comparative study has been performed on post-infection
epitopes putatively clustering around the receptor-binding sera taken from ferrets and humans or ducks and chickens,
pocket as shown in figure 1. Figure 6a shows the antigenic or indeed for many of the pairs of animals, where post-
relationships between strains within a {2,3,25} system as infection sera from the former are used to infer antigenic
revealed by an assay that focuses solely on the third, highly relationships in the latter.
variable, epitope region. A strong diagonal signature is Antigenic relationships between influenza strains can also
observed, offering the impression of linear movement through be interrogated using microneutralization (MN) assays, where
antigenic space when in fact the population is actually zig- the virus is mixed with varying dilutions of serum and then
zagging within it in a manner analogous to that shown in inoculated into culture, and the presence of virus-specific anti-
figure 4b. Assuming instead that the magnitude of the HI bodies in the serum is indicated by impaired or absent viral
titre depends on the precise number of shared epitopes replication. HI titres correlate well with the results of MN
(figure 6b), we can again find a strong diagonal signature, assays [16], suggesting that both are detecting antibodies
but with more evidence of clustering of similar antigenic var- against highly variable epitopes putatively clustering around
iants in time, as seen in human HI data and by genetic the receptor-binding pocket. However, discrepancies between
analysis of influenza virus sequence evolution [13]. This the two assays—such as antisera with high neutralization titre
emerges as a natural property of this model, owing to the but low or even absent HI titre or vice versa—have been
time-scales at which epitope-specific immunity declines. In reported for avian [17,18] and swine [19] influenza, and
effect, as older hosts die, population-level immunity against there are monoclonal antibodies that neutralize but do not
the strains that they have specifically experienced wanes, inhibit haemagglutination and vice versa [20,21], suggesting
thus creating gaps in the network of herd immunity that that they do have different (although possibly overlapping)