seasonal variations with the highest standard deviation of greenness was highly seasonal and strongly correlated with s
EVI values. Savannas included in dense forest showed the rainfall and to a lesser extent to light seasonality. The EVI a
lowest mean EVI values, whereas the open degraded forests seasonal profiles of all vegetation types identified (including = 2
(class 14) had the highest mean EVI values. The EVI profiles swamp forests) were nearly the mirror image of the seasonal Ss
of all forest classes showed two peaks corresponding to the patterns of rainfall and light availability. These findings of =
two rainy seasons of March—May (short rainy season) and strong rainfall and light control on EVI profiles in Central =
September—November (long rainy season), alternating with Africa contrast with that of Myneni [15], who showed a sea- | ‘S
two periods of lower EVI values, in December—February sonal increase in the leaf area of the Amazon forest during ©
(long dry season) and in June-August (short dry season). the dry season when irradiance is maximal and rainfall is 2
The three stations showed similar temporal profiles minimal. In Central Africa, the movement of the ITCZ gen- | =
between EVI and light intensity with little time lag between erates two rainy and sunny seasons and two contrasting  &
respective maximum and minimum values (see the electronic dry seasons. The unexpected light intensity during the =
supplementary material, figure S4). rainy seasons, results from the fact that the sky is clearin § =
the morning. The induced surface warming later in the day &
promotes atmospheric instability and convection. Convective . 55
clouds develop during the afternoon, leading to thunder- © 8
. . storms that do not occur until late afternoon or at night. 8
4. Discussion The association between high rainfall, high light intensity 3
In this study, we aimed to identify spatial patterns of vegetation and high EVI level suggested that these periods were opti-
structure and greenness in Central Africa. Specifically, we ident- mal for photosynthetic activity. Seasonal changes in light
ified a wide spectrum of tropical vegetation types (savannas, intensity have also been shown to strongly drive tree phenol-
forest and swamps) and strong spatial variations in stand struc- ogy in Central and Southern America [39,40]. However, the
ture and deciduousness across forest types. All vegetation types role of light availability on tree phenology and forest func-
were described with more than 90% of good quality acquisition, tioning in Africa remains to be examined, since light intensity
except for the westernmost classes that were affected by clouds data were only available for three sites and the date ranges