preferred for oviposition by stemborer moths relative to unin- order to maintain yields, which is not an option for the majority
fested plants [15]. Infestation by striga causes up to 100% of the resource-poor smallholder farmers in the region. There is
yield loss and over SSA annual losses estimated at $40.8 million therefore a need for measures to check land degradation
[16]. These effects are more serious under conditions of poor and bring the degraded lands back to productivity through
soil fertility [17], with nitrogen and phosphorus deficiency adoption of appropriate farming systems.
being the most serious in accentuating the severity of
damage to the host plants [18]. Unfortunately, the problem of
striga is continuing to extend to new areas in SSA as farmers .
abandon heavily infested fields for new ones [19,9]. 4. Climate change

In spite of the serious crop losses associated with striga The food security situation in most of SSA is further threate-
infestation, effective control of the weed has been elusive. ned by climate change which is expected to have far reaching
Reasons for this range from the fact that striga is highly prolific, effects on cereal production. Indeed, projections indicate that
with an individual plant producing thousands of tiny dust-like unless drastic steps are taken, SSA will have more than

seeds that can remain viable in the soil for over 10 years [20,21]. 500 million food insecure people by 2020 [29]. Climate


change is anticipated to have far reaching effects on cereal pro- as the putative trap crop (pull) as it attracted considerably

duction in SSA, consequently posing a threat to its ability to more oviposition by stemborer moths than maize [38,39]. How-
attain the millennium development goals (MDGs). The magni- ever, emerging young larvae of the stemborers did not
tude and speed of climate change over major crop areas in the appreciably survive on the grass, with over 80% mortality
region has been predicted by calculating the percentage over- occurring within the first 15 days of larval feeding [39,40].
lap between historical (1960-2002) crop growing season This is because the grass produces a gummy substance that