renal, intestinal and cardiovascular disorders. In his physiological functions, but also for the promising
article, he also describes potential strategies for therapeutic potentials of drugs modulating the activity
improving the efficacy and/or benefit-to-risk ratio of | ofcannabinoid receptors—especially within the nervous
these agonists in the clinic. These involve: (i) targeting system. The brain is considered by many as the last great

cannabinoid receptors located outside the blood- frontier of science. Indeed, the brain is the ‘commander-
brain barrier; (ii) targeting cannabinoid receptors in-chief’ for the entire body, a fascinating and extremely
expressed by a particular tissue; (iii) targeting upregu- complicated organ in its own right. Disorders of the

lated cannabinoid receptors; (iv) selectively targeting nervous system as a whole, account for more hospitaliz-
cannabinoid CB2 receptors; and/or (v) adjunctive ations, more long-term care and more chronic suffering
‘multi-targeting’. Minimizing the adverse effects of | than nearly all other disorders combined. What still
cannabinoid receptor agonists in the clinic requires remains a fact is that previous years have shown a
careful consideration of the likely strengths and weak- marked improvement in the treatment of various neuro-
nesses for improving the therapeutic efficacy and/or logical conditions thanks to the vast advancements in
limiting the adverse effects. Indeed, for many their structural and functional neuro-imaging. The answer
strengths outweigh identified weaknesses. As the bulk to all diseases lies at the molecular level and why
of this information derived mainly from preclinical should the brain be any different? Given the broad
research, there is a clear need for phase I clinical involvement of the ECS in nervous system develop-
trials with healthy human subjects and phase II trials ment, homeostasis, dysfunction and energy balance,
with patients. It will also be important to select the the more we know of the ECS the better are the pro-
strategy that would be the one most likely to produce spects for capitalizing on endocannabinoid-based
the greatest benefit-to-risk ratio in patients [47]. therapies in each disease context.

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2012)