taxa as well [113]. However, it fails to provide complete stantially from each other because of their divergent genetic
explanations for many social phenomena among primates make-up. While these genetic differences generate a number
and other mammals [114], partly because of a strong focus of ‘trivial’ constraints on behaviour, such as the inability of
on ecological factors alone. elephants to fly or that of insects to lactate, the genetic underpin-
Kin selection theory provides a framework for studying nings of successful species-specific behavioural solutions to
patterns of cooperative behaviour especially among females, recurrent, predictable challenges to survival and reproduction
because most mammals are characterized by female philo- will automatically eliminate many other potential behavioural
patry and relatives live together, or at least in close vicinity solutions to the same adaptive problems, thereby explaining

[17,115]. Mutualism and manipulation can also explain some species differences in behaviour.


For example, genetically determined, species-specific pat- early development [138,139], highlighting the fact that genetic

terns of oxytocin and vasopressin receptor distributions in and developmental mechanisms are inseparable and may
the forebrain in closely related species of voles (Microtus often be closely linked to social and ecological ones.
spp.) are linked either to a monogamous or promiscuous This point is forcefully illustrated by Sachser et al. [140],
mating system with their attendant behavioural consequences who summarize the neuroendocrine processes affecting
[132], reflecting constraints on development in existing species. behavioural outcomes in rodents that operate throughout
Similarly, van Schaik [131] argues that species differences in ontogeny, including the prenatal phase. The contribution by
brain size in orangutans are responsible for concomitant differ- Faulkes & Bennett [141] further illustrates how group-level
ences in behavioural flexibility. The contribution by Holekamp variation and species differences in social behaviour
et al. [133] suggests instead the existence of ultimately genetic (among mole rats) are constrained by particular patterns of
constraints on the course of evolution based on their analysis neurotransmitter expression and physiological control of
of adaptations in limb and skull morphology in carnivores reproduction. As emphasized by Schradin [130], physio-