important soya bean pest, the velvet bean caterpillar moth actors, production scenarios and land use pathways [5].
Anticarsia gemmatalis, there are 723 species of moths in the Here, we present three case studies to illustrate patterns of pes-
cerrados [17]) but also many pesticides act upon basal physio- ticide use in the Amazonian agricultural frontier. The first case
logical processes (e.g. mitotic spindle formation, membrane ion study reports on pesticide use in small scale, fruit and veg-
channel transport, mitochondrial electron transport, neuro- etable-producing farms in the fertile floodplains of the
transmitter and ATP formation [16]), which are common Solim6es and Amazonas Rivers in Central Amazon. Between
to a wide array of largely unrelated, non-target organisms. 1986 and 1996, these small farms expanded in number from
Therefore, pesticides have the potential, often realized, to det- 1.3- to 16-fold in several municipalities surrounding the state
rimentally affect biodiversity and ecosystem structure and capital Manaus. This expansion was driven by demand for
function [18]. local food production by a growing urban population, as
By focusing on pesticides, we do not imply that pesticide Manaus grew from 0.3 to 1 million inhabitants between 1960
contamination is necessarily the most important driver of bio- and 1990, and to 1.8 million in 2010 [27,28]. Data for this
diversity loss in frontier regions. In fact, native habitat loss case study are based on interviews conducted in 2005 by one
owing to land conversion itself is of paramount importance of us (A.V.W.) with 220 smallholder farmers from 26 flood-
[2]. However, pesticide contamination ranks among the most plain villages in Iranduba, Careiro da Varzea, Manacapuru
important threats to biodiversity in agricultural landscapes in and Manaus (a reanalysis of [29]). The second case study
general [19] and, if we aim to reconcile agricultural production reports on pesticide use in a pilot, 4000 ha sugarcane planta-
with biodiversity conservation, better land management prac- tion implemented in converted floodplain forest near the
tices, including sustainable pesticide use, have to be devised Reserves of Apauzinho and the National Park of Anavilhanas
and implemented. In addition, pesticide application profiles in Central Amazon. These plantations were established in a 60
provide an excellent indicator of the degree of agricultural 000 ha farm as part of the general trend of expansion of biofuel
intensification, as well as a prime example of a hazardous crops in Brazil [30]. Data from pesticide use from the 2009/
land management practice in which risk mitigation requires 2010 season were provided by landowners. The third study
responsibility-sharing by, and involvement of, a wide diversity case documents a process of land use intensification by a
of stakeholders. high-profile, large-scale soya bean-producing farm in the ‘arc