
gazed-upon aspects of the scene in their speech. Griffin and
Bock [7] were the first to use this methodology to study sen-

Extensive research using this book to elicit narratives tence generation in skilled adult speakers. They asked
from children and adults across a range of language commu- speakers to describe simple cartoons depicting transitive
nities has shown that the vast majority of speakers begin their events (‘the woman is shooting the man’) and demonstrated
story with reference to the boy and one or both of the animals a highly consistent pattern of visual scanning, temporally
[9]. However, a study of narrative production in children linked to verbal output. Specifically, speakers initially surveyed
with developmental disorders [10] produced some more key aspects of the scene for approximately 300 ms, after which
unusual opening gambits, the most memorable one from a gazes to the agent and patient characters began to diverge.
nine-year-old boy with ASD who started his story with, In general, looks to the agent increased and this was invariably
‘There is a moon’. While grammatically and factually correct, the first character to be mentioned in verbal output. As the

such a statement violates the social expectation that the story name for the agent was articulated, gaze shifted to the patient.


By contrast, when speakers were asked to simply identify the prior to articulation may contribute to more fluent utterances. | 3 |

recipient of the action, looks focused almost exclusively on Furthermore, we can also determine whether individual differ-

the patient. Griffin and Bock [7] argued that the pattern of ences in visual attention affect output, and whether this can be a
eye-movements supported at least two distinct phases of sen- externally modified, by cueing participants to relevant scenes. s
tence production: a rapid period of event apprehension, Thus, eye-movement paradigms provide a unique opportunity a
during which speakers comprehend the event, and a longer to explore why and when language production breaks down, = 2: