
system system
times were modelled by the output of the hippocampal com-
ponent: the more different the output was from the input, the
input longer the looking time at the stimulus [67]. Developing cor-
Figure 1. Schema of the dual-memory model. tical representations were modelled by the activation patterns
in the hidden layer of the cortical system.
The model was able to account for a range of results from
infant category learning: in its cortical component, it learned
We [62] presented a connectionist neural network model of perceptual categories that became progressively differentiated
infant categorization that aimed to integrate the different with increased exposure to exemplars, showing the global-
results from looking-time and sequential-touching/general- to-basic shift that is also found in infant categories. The model
ized-imitation-type studies. The model was based on the could further account for the fact that background experience
idea that a coherent account of this body of work could be affects infants’ looking behaviour in an experimental setting
provided by considering the unfolding interactions between [71]. This was because previously learned representations in
two developing memory systems in the brain. In the adult the cortical system facilitated online category learning of related
literature, the view that memory formation and consolidation items in the hippocampal component through feedback connec-
depend on multiple interacting neural systems is widely tions. More recently, we used the output of the cortical system
accepted [63,64]. One influential idea [64] is that whereas to model infant event-related potential (ERP) data in early
the hippocampus is responsible for rapidly acquiring new object categorization [72].
memories, cortical networks learn slowly and extract regu- In sum, the model covered a range of phenomena from
larities from the environment. Our model was inspired by early, prelinguistic object categorization, accounting for
this distinction between hippocampal and cortical processing. data from different experimental paradigms and data from be-
Furthermore, it was based on the developmental literature havioural and neurophysiological studies. Here, we want to
which suggests that novelty preferences observed in infant extend this model to simulate the shift from prelinguistic