depend on multiple interacting neural systems is widely tions. More recently, we used the output of the cortical system
accepted [63,64]. One influential idea [64] is that whereas to model infant event-related potential (ERP) data in early
the hippocampus is responsible for rapidly acquiring new object categorization [72].
memories, cortical networks learn slowly and extract regu- In sum, the model covered a range of phenomena from
larities from the environment. Our model was inspired by early, prelinguistic object categorization, accounting for
this distinction between hippocampal and cortical processing. data from different experimental paradigms and data from be-
Furthermore, it was based on the developmental literature havioural and neurophysiological studies. Here, we want to
which suggests that novelty preferences observed in infant extend this model to simulate the shift from prelinguistic
looking-time studies are driven by the hippocampal memory to language-mediated categorization.
system [65,66], whereas categorization behaviour displa- The extended model had the same architecture as the
yed in imitation and object examination studies depends on original one, but in order to model the transition from pre-
a later-maturing memory network that involves inferior linguistic perceptual categorization to language-mediated
temporal regions [65]. The fact that different experimental categorization we extended the model with task/label units
methods tap into different memory representations can linked to the hidden layer of the cortical memory system
explain why the results in infant categorization depend on (figure 1). The idea here was that these units could potentially
the methodology used. encode a variety of functions and object properties that go
Consequently, the model consisted of two interacting beyond perceptual feature information, such as representing
components (figure 1): a fast-learning hippocampal /striatal affordances and specific ways of interacting with an object
system and a slower learning cortical system. Each component or knowledge of an object’s hidden properties. Because we
consisted of an auto-encoder neural network: a three-layer aimed to model the role of first words in object categorization
network that receives the representation of an object as input here these units were used to encode object labels both at the
and that learns to recreate the input on the output side. Because basic and global levels of categorization.

the hidden layer is smaller than input and output layers this
creates a bottleneck, forcing the network to extract regularities