
How is such genetic variation expressed at different den- persisted in the long term after climate warming. In these | 4 |

sities? How can we experimentally discriminate between cases, environmental change in one dimension of the niche
these situations? The theoretical study by Martin et al. [21] (e.g. climate) results in the shrinkage of another dimension a
also shows that genetic variation affecting birth rates, mor- of the niche (local adaptation to some soil conditions is s
tality or variance in reproduction could potentially have lost). More generally, this study illustrates the need to take a
distinct effects on ER. Thus, a detailed understanding of into account the multivariate nature of adaptation: while © 2
life-history variation seems to be necessary to quantitatively other studies have shown that genetic correlations between Ss
predict the probability of rescue. traits can both accelerate or impede the evolutionary § =
Climate change imposes new adaptive challenges on response to environmental change [38], the study by Shiffers =
natural populations. The process of adaptation and ER in et al. shows that evolution of genetically independent pheno- ‘‘S
this case is complicated by the fact that selection on genetic typic traits can also interact through their effects on ©
variation varies both in time, through yearly variation in cli- demography (here through their effect on gene flow). 2
mate and longer-term warming trends, and in space along An important theme in this special issue is the role pheno- | =
latitudinal or altitudinal gradients. Climate change is in typic plasticity plays in modifying the likelihood of ER (see also Ey
particular often modelled by imagining a shifting spatial [40]). Kovach-Orr & Fussman [42] investigated the potential © =
gradient of selection [36-38]. Kirkpatrick & Peischl [39] effectiveness of genetic diversity and phenotypic plasticity in = =
address the question: ‘When and where do mutations occur an inducible defence trait to allow ER within the context ofa — &
that allow adaptation to environments that change in space simple plankton food web. ER may occur at different trophic &
and time?’ Specifically, they extend population genetics levels in this community context, and where it occurs may © 8
theory to mathematically study the probability of fixation of have different effects on dynamical stability and food web per- 8
new beneficial mutations in changing environments. They sistence. Their system is complex because it models direct and Ss
remind us that population genetic models have provided indirect trophic interactions and the two major sources of
key insights into this issue, but that there is lack of analytical intraspecific variation mentioned above. Because of this a