orders of language. Ideas discussed in this special issue suggest generativity, inhibition, set-shifting, working memory and
at least three ways in which work in this area can benefit from attentional control. These are all functions that can be impaired
insights gained from different perspectives. One, as discussed by frontal lobe lesions, but they can be dissociated in adults
by Nation [25], is the growing literature exploring learning and [62,63]. Some definitions of EF extend to consider traditional
lexical acquisition in adults (e.g. [55,56]). These experiments IQ measures such as Raven’s matrices. Thus, when we consi-
demonstrate the continuous and dynamic nature of learning der how EF relates to language impairment, we need to take
and provide a potentially powerful methodology to consider into account the specific function that is measured, as they
individual differences in learning. The second stems from com- are not interchangeable.
putational models, which may throw light on mechanisms and Figure 4 shows three possible models that can account for
consequences of implicit and statistical learning, as discussed an association between EF and language impairment: (A) EF
by a number of authors. For example, Dell & Chang [43] affects language functioning; (B) language functioning affects
offer a model of speech production that demonstrates how EF and (C) a third factor, X, influences both EF and language.
each encounter with a word provides a learning opportunity. Model A, in fact, can be taken in two ways: the superficial
Language experience provides the basis for the language user and the deep. At the superficial level, we may designate a task
to make predictions about an upcoming word, this in turn as a language task when in fact it depends heavily on executive
leads to prediction error and to priming, a form of implicit skills. In effect, EF may act as a confound. Ramus & Szenkovitz
learning which results in changes to the knowledge base that [5], for instance, noted that dyslexia is often characterized
then influences the processing of a word in subsequent encoun- in terms of impaired phonological representations. They
ters. Third, connectionist architectures provide an opportunity showed, however, that phonological deficits are seen only in
to simulate learning in development (e.g. [37,41]). Compu- certain tasks, and may be unimpaired when a task does not
tational models can be modified to simulate different kinds tax speed or short-term memory or involve conscious judge-
of learning deficit and also re-learning in adults, for example, ments. In a similar vein, Protopapas [64] notes that a child
post-stroke [57]. This approach opens up the possibility for may fail the so-called phonological tests for reasons other
accounting for variation in different types of disorder: our than poor phonology, such as problems with EFs of attention
simulations might predict different patterns of impairment in and inhibition. These authors emphasize the importance of