

anvil (figure 1). The effect of location is evident even when others among the communities studied has been reported in terms

are not currently cracking within the same minute. Linear of the species of nut targeted, the objects chosen as tools and
regression analyses reveal a significant effect (p < 0.001) for the precise techniques applied in hammering [62]. At Bossou,
location (near an anvil or away from an anvil) for all actions chimpanzees crack the oil-palm nut (Elaeis guineensis), the
with a nut (8 = 0.723), all direct percussion (@ = 0.562) and strik- only naturally available nut species in the community’s habitat.
ing a nut with a stone (8 = 0.692). All three variables also Chimpanzees typically nut-crack in the sitting position, placing
showed a significant increase with age, with 8 ranging from nuts on the anvil one at a time and cracking them in a few
0.441 to 0.447 and all p-values < 0.001.The effect of concurrent strikes. Oil-palm nuts are locally abundant in the area near a
activity by others, in contrast, was not significant for any of fruiting tree, so many individuals can crack nuts concurrently
these variables (p = 0.098, all contact with a nut; 0.780, direct if multiple hammers and anvils are present. Of note is the fact
percussion and 0.884, striking a nut with a stone). that Bossou is the only site at which chimpanzees use two sep-
Given that nuts and nut shells are easily portable even arate, movable stones as hammer and anvil [63], rather than
for the youngest monkeys, that hard surfaces on which objects using anvils embedded in the ground as at all other sites
can be percussed are abundant throughout the monkeys’ habi- studied (e.g. the Tai National Park; [64]). As a consequence,
tat [47,57], and that stones can be used to percuss objects other and unlike in the case of capuchin monkeys at FBV, both
than nuts, the above results suggest that the sites and the arte- anvil and hammer stones can be re-used by another in another
facts present at these sites specifically promote activity relevant location or at the same location. Hammer stones at Bossou
to cracking nuts. Thus, the activity of others cracking nuts and weigh on average 0.7 kg, and anvil stones 2.1 kg [65]. Even
access to artefacts can synergistically promote strong and very young chimpanzees can pick up the hammer stones
enduring interest in places and materials related to nut-cracking used by adults (although they cannot yet apply these with
and support appropriate activities with these materials. It is dif- enough force to crack nuts)—in this respect, chimpanzees
ficult to specify exactly what youngsters learn about nut- face a different challenge than do capuchins in learning how