

These calculations do not take into account the effects to-trial variability of the latency (computed as the standard 5 |

of correlated noise, because they are based on a pseudo- deviation of the latency across all trials to each stimulus, and
simultaneous response array. To test for the effect of correlated then averaged across stimuli). This revealed a clear dichotomy a
variability, we generated simulated correlated spike trains that within the population: some neurons achieved very low s
matched exactly the true population-averaged time-dependent latency variability, while most others attained much higher a
firing rate of the neurons (sampled with 1-ms bins) and the true levels of variability. For analysis, we partitioned the population = 2
pairwise cross-correlations of neuronal pairs within the same into two subpopulations using a single criterion: a threshold Ss
column in each bin [39,40]. When the simulated population applied to the latency variability (figure 3b). The subpopu- Ss
of 100 cells per column with realistic correlation values was lation of neurons with low latency variability was termed =
tested, performance of the columnar latency difference decoder ‘stereotyped’ neurons to reflect the fact that they all had similar ‘5
was unchanged [40], suggesting that the results presented here onset latencies across stimuli. These made up 24% of the ©
would only be mildly affected by correlated noise. total population. The neurons classified as those with larger
Here, we presented results on the robustness of the codes latency variability were termed ‘modulated’ neurons. © =
to ‘backwards’ errors in knowledge of stimulus time that led This grouping revealed further key differences: stereotyped yy
to including in the analysis periods of prestimulus activity. neurons responded to all tested sounds, whereas modula- 2
This was because we were interested in the robustness of ted neurons responded only to some sounds, and stereotyped &
first-spike detection to spontaneous activity. However, it is neurons responded with very short latencies. The mean a
important to bear in mind that ‘forward’ errors in the stimu- latencies of stereotyped neurons (21.7 + 0.8 ms) were much Ps
lus time (i.e. when stimulus time is estimated to happen later shorter than those of modulated neurons (72.0 + 4.6 ms; two- |
than it really does) can also be profoundly detrimental for sample f-test p < 10’). Example responses of one stereotyped = &
reading out the information. For example, for transient and one modulated neuron are shown in figure 3b. 3
responses as those of the barrel cortex neurons analysed The stereotyped neurons stand out because of their rapid, Si