
RD 114 SRNOMNNN//550

Figure 3. Recombination series involving a gamma-type env. Class | viruses are depicted in green; class Il viruses, in orange; the ‘promiscuous’ gamma-type env is
marked with a green diagonal pattern. See text for explanation of question marks and arrows.

all of the features of the gamma-type. Similarly, members of the While it is true that the content of the databases is heavily
Alpharetrovirus genus, consisting of avian leukosis virus biased toward mammals, gamma-type TM sequences, but
(ALV) and its ‘onco-twin’, Rous sarcoma virus, as well as a not a single beta-type TM sequence, were found in at least
few closely related viruses of chickens, display incongruence 26 non-mammalian species. Furthermore, within mammals,
between RT and TM on trees—RT is typical of class II retro- the beta-type sequence appeared in 50/52 species in which
virus, whereas env is the avian gamma-type, suggesting a the gamma-type also appeared. Thus, the findings do not
recombinant origin of the Alpharetrovirus genus [16]. appear to be the result of database bias [26]. The fact that the

In the above cases, we see several instances of the same, or search was homology based, however, allows for the possi-
highly similar, gamma-type env associated with retroviruses bility that any beta-type TM sequences outside mammals
of both class I (PcEV, FcEV and BaEV) and class II (MPMV, may be so diverged as to elude the query sequences. Although
SMRV and IAPE), suggesting recombination events. While this is possible, we think it unlikely given the range of beta-type
the examples given above are limited to mammalian species, query sequences used, and the ability of the BLAST algorithm
examples suggesting recombination events involving cross- [51] to detect distantly related sequences.

species transmissions across large genetic distances have
also been found. Before describing these, however, it will be
helpful to examine the species distributions of env, based on
the distribution of the corresponding TM types. 6. Env-swapping ll