acquisition of a gamma-type env, was able to infect several only one class (mammals) and one genus (betaretroviruses)
avian species. At some point subsequent to the initial infec- has an average pairwise identity of 26%. In stark contrast,
tion, the gamma-type env would have been replaced by the within the gammaretroviral genus, a group of 10 TM
avian gamma-type variant. sequences representing both exogenous and endogenous
The avian gamma-type env, such as the gamma-type env, has members from two vertebrate classes has an average pairwise
itself been the target of capture; the ALV-] subgroup of ALV has identity of 51%—nearly twice that of the betaretrovirus
an env that differs significantly from those of the remaining sub- genus. Adding TM sequences from four type-D betaretro-
groups (A, B, D and E) and was acquired by recombination with viruses gives an average of 50%, in keeping with their
an endogenous provirus [69]. As more avian genomic sequences having acquired a gammaretroviral env. Note that this collec-
are added to the databases, more such cases will likely emerge. tion represents three vertebrate classes and two retroviral
Remarkably, the avian gamma-type TM is strikingly simi- genera, yet exhibits far less diversity than either the betaretro-
lar in structure and features to fusion glycoproteins found in viral genus or the lentiviral genus.
two other virus families, the filoviruses and the arenaviruses In fact, even including TM sequences from two additional
[16,50,70]. The ALV TM sequence (excluding the CT) is 27% genera—the delta- and the alpharetrovirus genera, thus span-
identical and 42% similar at the amino acid level to both Mar- ning four retroviral genera and three vertebrate classes—the
burg virus and Ebola virus. Furthermore, the two filoviruses average pairwise identity of this group (39%) still well exceeds
share with alpharetroviruses a conserved CX,CC motif, a that of either of the genera possessing the beta-type TM.
recognizable ISD region, a fusion peptide that is flanked by Although the high degree of variability in the SU region of
a pair of cysteines, and a highly conserved predicted N- env makes it difficult to carry out a comparison of divergence
glycan site at the start of the first heptad repeat (hr1). similar to that carried out for TM, a couple of observations are
While it is possible that filoviruses originated in mammals, worthy of comment. Among alpharetroviruses and the murine
it is noteworthy that the cysteine-flanked fusion peptide gammaretroviruses, a pattern is seen in SU amino acid sequences
specific to the avian gamma-type TM has not yet been seen wherein a few discrete variable regions are flanked by regions
in any retroviral TM outside the avian class, raising the intri- of relatively high conservation [71,72]. In many cases, such as
guing possibility that Ebola virus and Marburg virus with ALV-A and -B variants, the two variants have only a few