placental mammals have co-opted three crucial malignant gen-producing cells, or cells producing similar antigens
attributes as a cost for well-protected offspring delivery: (molecular mimicry) [151], or that truncated env genes act
immune-tolerance of alloantigens, tissue penetration and as superantigens that trigger a non-specific autoimmune
vascular remodelling. response [152]. While each of these hypotheses could be

Heidmann and co-workers [104] have shown that it is valid, the difficulty in proving such a mechanism is substan-
possible to transplant allogeneic cancerous cell-lines in immu- tial. A significant correlation between the immune response
nocompetent mice by engineering cancerous cells to express against ERV antigens and autoimmune disease has been
retroviral Env proteins. As discussed above, these genes are documented, although not always consistently found [153],
known to have been co-opted independently multiple times but this correlation does not prove that ERV antigens were
within the placental mammal lineage, where they are the trigger for disease onset. It might simply result from a
expressed in the placenta and play a crucial role for the general disruption of immune tolerance. The problem is
normal formation of the syncytiotrophoblast  [23,135, further complicated by the fact that even for well-established
139-141]. While not all retroviral env genes have been co- auto-antibodies, the specificity remains low in the vast
opted for their immunosuppressive features (the most striking majority of diseases [154]. For example, there are a wide var-
property of which is the promotion of cell fusion; hence they iety of auto-antibodies (e.g. anti-nuclear, anti-dsDNA)
are called syncytins), their contribution to the immune-stealth produced in inflammatory diseases, some of which are
cloak of the trophoblast is considered crucial for gestational more commonly detected in older people with no clinical
immune tolerance [126]. It is thus reasonable to hypothesize autoimmunity [155]. Thus, distinguishing cause from effect
that ectopic upregulation of immunosuppressive syncytin with respect to the role of HERVs and autoimmune diseases
might contribute to the immune escape of human cancers remains an open challenge.
(other than GTD). On the other hand, HERVs could be involved in auto-

Apart from showing the contribution of syncytins to the syn- immune disorders as a last resort for immune regulation if
cytiotrophoblast and thus possibly to allogeneic cancers in cells exploit immunosuppressive env antigens, such as