studies of layer 2 stellate neurons, which show almost no
mutual excitatory connections and which are coupled by

(e) Propagation of activity during spatial navigation strong disynaptic inhibition [28,30]. Morphological studies
The propagation of activity through a grid patch is what [31] have demonstrated that both stellate and pyramidal
leads to grid cell firing, but several aspects of this process cells have axon collaterals terminating in layer 2. Uncaging
are not yet understood. Figure 2c illustrates how head direc- studies [32,33] have revealed evidence for massive excitatory
tion information drives the propagation of activity through inputs from layer 2 onto both layer 2 pyramidal and stellate
the patch. We assume that the grid cell activity rests statically neurons, which may originate from layer 2 pyramidal cells
at a low level that is exactly self-sustaining in the absence of since stellate neurons do not seem to form such connections,
head direction input. While it seems fairly clear that head at least according to the evidence cited above [28,30].

direction inputs control the direction of propagation activity, The fact that even same-sized grids can have deviations,
how this exactly occurs is not predicted by the theory. To give such as slightly different tilts in their main axes [5], poses
the reader a better idea how this may occur, we specify one challenges for the connectivity scheme proposed here. In
possible implementation of head direction input to grid such cases, the proposed isoposition connectivity will not
patches in figure 2c,d, but we emphasize that this scheme is be optimal. We suggest that in such cases a slightly modified
not essential to our theory. As shown in figure 2c, directionally connectivity (such as mapping the horizontal axis of one

delayed inhibition activated by head direction inputs can be patch to an oblique axis of another patch) will be better


1. reciprocal excitatory connections 4. converging dorsal to 5. diverging ventral to
ventral connections dorsal connections
+ +