fate in experiment 2 and fraction of fixations on target in experiment 1. Filled circles: animals; open circles: vehicles. (d) Data of (6) split by modification level, top
tow: ‘opposite’ modification, bottom row: ‘same’ modification. Neutral panel included in both rows. Note that (a,b) normalize data relative to the neutral image for
visualization, whereas (c,d) use the raw fixation proportions and hit rates, which are also used for all statistical analysis.

positive effect for negative contrast modifications on the (e) Effect of contrast as such (experiment 3)

object (figure 32, left), as for the ‘opposite’ modifications, a Unlike earlier studies [35,39], we here modify an object’s lumi-
negative change to the object implies a positive change to nance contrast rather than a random location. This combines
the background. Such a positive change would draw atten- two effects: the effect of contrast as such and a ‘highlighting’
tion to the target stimulus, which, in turn, makes detection of the object. In other words, the modification of the object’s
of the target object easier. appearance coincides with a change in low-level features
within the object’s shape. In experiment 3, we test whether
the fact that we do not see an attractive effect of negative modi-
fications is a result of these two effects adding up and thus

(d) Direct comparison of detection and fixation

probability cancelling out for negative modifications. When modifications
To directly compare the relation between hit rate and fixation take the shape of an object from a different scene (figure 4a), we
probability for each modification level, we correlate the two indeed observe the V-shaped effect of luminance contrast
measures per image. The two measures are significantly cor- described earlier (figure 4b). There is a main effect of the modi-
related when all data are aggregated (rgog = 0.294, p < 0.001, fication level (F423 = 75.94, p < 0.001), a main effect of whether
figure 3c), and for animals (r493 = 0.364, p< 0.001) and the object shape is applied to an image containing an object or
vehicles (1493 = 0.390, p < 0.001) separately. For 7/9 modifi- merely foliage (Fj,7= 10.16, p=0.015), and an interaction
cation levels, the correlations are significant (figure 3d), and between these two factors (F42g = 12.9, p < 0.001). This con-