
within the visual mind and brain of human and non-
human primates. The first form for representing an external ; ; .
visual object refers to visual features/visual categories that (c) Visual selection with eye movements: ‘where to

are segmented into elementary visual object representations ou . . ‘ ‘
[16,19]. Here, these early object representations that are not look next?" and its coupling to visual attention

accessible for goal-directed actions are called proto-objects. for perception
The following characteristics are ascribed to these proto- Natural vision proceeds as a succession of fixations and inter-
objects. First, following Wischnewski et al. [25,26], proto- vening saccades. The primate retina with its inhomogeneous
objects can be broken into two parts. The first part of a structure has a much higher resolution in the centre, the
proto-object refers to its visual features/categories within fovea, than in the periphery [25]. This anatomical fact can be
the ventral and dorsal stream (e.g. maps of V1, V2, V4, MT, seen as one reason for the high occurrence of saccadic eye
etc.). The second part of a proto-object is represented movements (three to four times per second) to potential infor-
within a priority map [7]) and refers to an early spatially mative retinal locations (e.g. informative for the current task;
extended representation of a tentative external object—here [37]). Given a biased competition framework, the question
called a priority map region. Each priority map region is tem- emerges of how the next saccade goal (‘where to look next?’)
porarily connected to the visual features in cortical maps. might be selected. Currently available data of numerous
Besides retinal location within the priority map, the region studies of the past two decades deliver a converging answer,
has a rough shape [25,26] and, importantly, an attentional namely that a goal-directed, task-driven saccade to a location
weight [19]. Following TVA, the weight of a proto-object in space has to be preceded by the allocation of covert visual
region within a priority map modulates, in turn, the race of attention to this location (for an non-attentional perspective
its temporarily linked visual features in cortical maps towards to saccade control, see [38,39]). Deubel & Schneider per-
VSIM, that is, it influences the competition of visual features formed—inspired by the visual attention model (VAM;