of-war model and Frank’s [40] model of policing. In Reeve destruction of competitive ‘units’ per se. However, destruction
et al.’s model, player 1’s relative success is given by the competition may apply well to strategies of intersexual con-
ratio x/(x + by), where b (<1) allows for an asymmetry flict such as mate guarding, harassment or the production
between players 1 and 2 in ‘strength’ or the efficiency with of seminal toxins [42,63,64].
which effort invested in conflict converts into reproductive How can we model destruction competition? Conveniently,
success. In Frank’s [40] N-player model, the relative success we can capture the main characteristics of destruction compe-
of player i is x;/X, ie. the success of player i depends on tition using a simple alternative form for the contest success
their effort relative to the mean effort of all players. function, in which relative success depends on the difference
One of the most important features of ratio form models between the players’ conflict efforts, rather than the ratio of
is that no evolutionarily stable (ES) equilibrium exists where their efforts. In a difference form model, zero investment in con-
both players invest zero effort. In other words, ‘peaceful’ out- flict does not necessarily bring zero payoff, the distinctive
comes of evolutionary conflict are not predicted in this type feature of destruction competition that we want our model to
of model. To see why, imagine a two-player ratio form model possess. In fact, the economist Skaperdas [58] has shown that
in which both players invest zero effort. This cannot be an the ratio and difference forms are the only two functional
ES equilibrium because any mutant player who invested an forms which possess all of the appropriate properties that
infinitesimally small level of effort would win all the resource. we want in a contest success function (for example, that F; is
The marginal gains of investment at x = 0, y = 0 are infinite, an increasing function of the effort of player i; and that F, +
and so a situation of mutual peace is unstable. A situation F,=1). Thus, in mathematical as well as biological terms,
of one-sided peace, where one player invests zero and the contest success functions divide naturally into these two forms.
other invests positive effort, is also not a stable equilibrium Cant [42] analysed a model based on fitness expression
outcome in ratio form models [42]. The conclusion from ratio (3.1) but using the following difference form contest success
form models is that players get zero payoff if they do not function, adapted from Hirshleifer [56]:
invest in conflict, and so any disparity in the optima of compe- 1
titors is always manifested as actual conflict, for example, via Fy(x,y) = To elt (3.2)
