important factor driving the adoption of different livelihoods agricultural production and improve the livelihoods of © 2
strategies and adaptation measures [29,41,42]. Malagasy farmers. These range from high-level transform- Ss
Interestingly, while most Malagasy farmers already per- ations (such as changes in agricultural policies, economic S
ceive the impacts of climate change, as in other parts of development policies, poverty reduction strategies, public =
Africa [29], only a subset (21%) have changed their farming safety nets, market reforms, institutional arrangements and ‘5
systems in response to these changes. The limited uptake of governance structures; [5,8,12,14,18,27]) to more local-level rc
adaptation strategies by farmers is probably due to the high actions, which aim to directly improve farmer productivity. —
levels of household food insecurity, which make it risky for While systematic and transformational changes in policies © =
farmers to adopt new strategies that may affect their agri- and governance are urgently needed to address Madagascar’s yy
cultural production and food availability. In addition, most high poverty and chronic food insecurity, these changes are 2
farmers in our region simply lack the resources needed to extremely difficult to achieve and fall beyond the scope of &
implement adaptation measures, as has been found in other our paper. Our focus here, instead, is on specific technical a
regions [29,43]. The fact that the use of adaptation measures options, which we believe hold promise as low-cost, feasible w
was positively correlated with farmer education level, use of and relatively fast opportunities for improving agricultural |
diversified agricultural practices, diversified cropping systems productivity on farms, which can be pursued even in the | &
and livestock ownership indicate that farmers who are better context of unfavourable policies and institutional arrangements. 3s
educated and already have more diversified systems are Options that have been shown to be effective in increasing S
more likely to be willing to adopt new strategies. Other studies agricultural productivity elsewhere in Africa include facilitat-
have similarly highlighted the importance of educational ing access to improved seed varieties, fertilizers, irrigation
level, wealth, access to credit and information, extension ser- and other inputs [31], improving road infrastructure and
vices, safety nets, resources and adequate agricultural inputs access to markets [28,38], providing greater technical support
and technologies in increasing the probability of uptake of and extension services to farmers [29,43], and facilitating
adaptation measures by smallholder farmers [29,43,44]. access to timely climate information, which could be used to

inform the choice of crops, planting dates and management