proponents included the US delegation (technical advisors post-elimination issues? =
being primarily CDC staff), de Quadros, Albert Sabin, the The oral polio vaccine (OPV) has several characteristics that 3
creator of the oral polio vaccine, Rotary International that were not recognized until many years after licensure. How- =
had committed financial support for vaccine purchase, and ever, from the time of licensing of OPV more than 50 years = =
James Grant, the Director of UNICEF. ago it was clear that the vaccine strains are somewhat ©
Concern about polio was entirely that of the industrial- unstable genetically and could occasionally revert to virulent  &
ized countries with the US playing a predominant role. form. One case of paralytic disease in a vaccinee or close con- | 8
During the 1940s and 1950s, many infectious diseases faded tact occurred in every one to three million vaccinees [23]. This 2
in importance in the industrialized world. Antibiotics did not deter the use of the vaccine because the benefits of | =
became available, housing, sanitary and nutritional standards immunity from vaccination considerably exceeded the risk
improved and DTP vaccine came into use. Many infectious of acquiring the disease. As the number of cases diminished,
diseases declined to the point of being minor problems. this complication became of increasing concern.
Meanwhile, the incidence of polio increased, as did survivors Wholly unrecognized at the time of licensure was the fact
who were left with visible and handicapping paralyses. Con- that the poliovirus could combine with certain strains of
cern about polio increased sharply. With the support of another virus (Coxsackie) and exhibit other characteristics
President Franklin Roosevelt, himself a partly paralysed sur- of persistent growth and spread [24]. The vaccines are
vivor, a special foundation called the National Foundation for referred to as recombinant strains or vaccine-derived polio-
Infantile Paralysis was created to raise funds for treatment viruses (VDPVs). These have been shown to be excreted
and research. It was remarkably successful and it was respon- long-term by immunocompromised persons [25] and even
sible for funding the research laboratories that created polio healthy individuals [26], and can lead to outbreaks of polio
vaccine. A vaccine comprised of inactivated polioviruses [23]. While vaccine-derived type 1 and type 3 polioviruses
was perfected by a virologist, Jonas Salk, and began to be only rarely cause small outbreaks and seem to die out in
widely used beginning in 1955 [19]. It was given by injection. the environment [27,28], type 2 poliovirus is puzzling. A
A second vaccine, comprised of living polioviruses that could case of the wild type 2 strain has not been seen since 1998.
be given by mouth, was developed by Albert Sabin. It However, the recombinant type 2 vaccine strain has caused