almost immediately following the second HFS stimulus [62,63]. To avoid any confusion, therefore, we refer to these
(figure 3c,e). For this reason, we do not consider that the components in the present article as LTPb and LTPc, respect-
terms early (i.e. e-LTP) and late (i.e. I-LTP) are appropriate ively (reserving LTPa for STP). By this definition, compressed

descriptors of these temporally similar processes. Previously, HFS (including a single HFS episode) will induce LTPb


whereas a spaced HFS will induce a combination of LTPb directly compared LTPe with LTPb. Using both compressed | 8 |

and LTPc. HFS and spaced HFS protocols (to induce either LTPb or
LTPb and LTPc, respectively), we observed a decrease in PPF a
during the STP phase (LTPa) but no alteration in PPF thereafter s
8. The locus and mechanisms of expression of (figure 4). The fact that we could detect changes during the &
experiment gives us confidence that the lack of change in PPF = 2
LTPb and LTPc during LTPb and/or LTPc is not a technical issue, but rather Ss
There has been considerable debate as to locus and mechan- that it argues against an increase in P(r) during both these S
isms involved in the expression of LTP [11]. Even when one forms of potentiation. In apparent contradiction to these find- =
removes the complication of an overlapping STP (as in typical ings, a PKA-dependent, presynaptic component of LTP has = ‘$
pairing experiments), the situation is far from straightfor- been described using synaptopHluorin [46]. This component ©
ward. It seems to us to be probable that the existence of is, however, largely independent of the activation of NMDARs = =>
two forms of LTP that overlap in time may go some way to and so may constitute a different form of synaptic plasticity. In = =
addressing some of the controversies. In terms of induction, other recent work, an NMDAR and protein synthesis-dependent yy
it is established that both PKA and protein synthesis are form of LTP has been shown to involve an increase in P(r), based 2
required for LTPe but not for LTPb. Although neither on the use of FM dyes [69]. Thus, both pre and postsynaptic &
KT5720 nor anisomycin are specific for their targets, the find- mechanisms may contribute to LTP(c). a