eventually learned the discrimination task, the results suggest ommend them as a cellular memory mechanism, as had
that NMDA-dependent plasticity in the dentate contributes to been discussed previously [34]. The results discussed above
the ability of animals to pattern discriminate. This is consistent could simply mean that NMDA-dependent LTP is not used
with a previously postulated role for the dentate based on the in the hippocampus, in rodents, for the tasks investigated.
connectivity properties of the hippocampal circuit [29]. The hippocampus could still hold complex representations
The CA3 neurons have a dense network of recurrent col- associated with declarative memory but with the critical
laterals and it has been hypothesized that this type of circuit sites of plasticity located in some upstream processing
structure could readily perform pattern completion with region. Alternately, there are other forms of synaptic and cel-
incomplete input information [29]. This idea was examined lular plasticity that are independent of NMDA receptor
by deleting NMDA receptors specifically from CA3 neurons function that could support hippocampal circuit modification
in mice [30]. The animals were tested for spatial learning in with memory [35-39]. Finally, it is possible that NMDA-
the water maze task and were indistinguishable from control dependent forms of plasticity in the hippocampus do in
mice in their acquisition and retrieval in the standard refer- fact contribute to the formation of memory, but because of
ence memory version. However, when some of the distal the distributed nature of memory representations, eliminat-
visual cues were removed, the NMDA receptor knockout ing this component of the trace is insufficient to severely
mice showed impaired spatial memory retrieval consistent disrupt behavioural recall. As this brief discussion illustrates,
with a difficulty in pattern completion. Interestingly, the it is not an easy task to pick the right neurons, the right be-
place fields of neurons recorded in area CA1 from the CA3 haviour and the right molecular mechanism to provide a
NMDA receptor knockout animals showed a reduction in definitive test of any particular cellular memory mechanism.

robustness (reduced firing rate, increased size of area rep-
resented) compared with controls, and this alteration was

specific to the partial cue environment. 4. Finding the engram criteria 3 and 4:
While the loss of NMDA receptors in CA3 and dentate so