Figure 2. Simulated grid cell firing patterns in differently shaped environments. Typical examples of simulated grid cell firing patterns in (a) circular, (b,c) square
and (d) trapezoidal enclosures. Firing-rate maps (top row), spatial autocorrelograms (second row) with a gridness score specified on the top left corner, and two-
dimensional Fourier spectrograms (bottom row). Two distinct grid cell populations are generated in a square environment: one aligned to a horizontal wall (b) and
another aligned to a vertical wall (c). The overall distribution of simulated gridness scores in a circle (e), square (f) and trapezoid (g). All grid firing patterns were
generated using the same field—boundary interaction parameters. (Online version in colour.)

regular and over time converge to hexagonally symmetrical grid cells with scales much larger than the boundary size
patterns as the animal gains experience in this environment. should not be affected very much. The strongest effect

(3) In novel environments of identical geometry, grid cells should be observed on grid cells with scales close to the
should have different offsets. This follows from the size of the boundary.

fact that the offset depends on the initial condition
and these will differ in novel environment but not in

familiar environments, 6. A possible physiological implementation

(4) Because of the inhibitory ‘force’ coming from the bound- A possible physiological mechanism underlying the field—
ary, we predict some inhibitory neurons firing only at the boundary interaction model is outlined in figure 4. Here,
border (inhibitory border cells) and projecting to CA1 the field-like inputs are received from competing place cell net-
place cells. These projections could come either from works which are all connected to each other via inhibitory
mEC [23] or from subiculum [24]. interneurons. Afferent place cells with adjacent fields compete

(5) Grid cells with different scales should respond differently with each other till only the ones firing at distance approxi-
to the geometry of the environment. This is owing to the mately rscale remain active. Additionally, boundary cells from