
mirrors play in typical development.
Re-afference need however not be visual. Because babies hear

themselves cry and laugh, auditory mirror neurons for these (c) From re-afference to mirror properties
emotional sounds could emerge robustly even when deprived If such matching connections have been trained and the indi-
of visual parental imitation. During babbling, baby also creates vidual hears someone perform a similar action, the sound of
contingencies in the firing of premotor neurons triggering the the action, by resemblance to the re-afferent sounds that were
pseudo-speech and neurons in the temporal lobe responding to associated with the listener’s past actions, would activate STS
such speech. Once the synaptic connections have been trained neurons, which would trigger, through the potentiated
by its own babbling, hearing a parent speak could trigger the synapses, PM neurons triggering the execution of actions
motor programmes to replicate the words [6]. This process generating similar sounds. The PM neurons would become
would be assisted by the fact that parents change the tone of mirror neurons. The activity of the PM neurons while listen-
their own speech to be more similar to that of the baby (mother- ing to the actions of others would essentially be a recollection
ese [38]). Here, the cross-cultural tendency of parents to of past procedural memories of what motor state occurred
motherese and the tendency of babies to babble would canalize together with these sensory events, but a recollection that is
the emergence of appropriate articulatory mirror neurons. activated through an external social stimulus. This places
By contrast, many other stimuli that do not match our motor mirror neurons in a wider family of reactivation phenomena,
programmes occasionally occur while we perform an action also including memory and imagination.
(imagine a baby grasping at a daycare full of other babies crawl- The case of vision is more complex: one’s own actions are
ing around and throwing things), but these sensory inputs will seen from an egocentric perspective, those of others from a
not have the same contingency or tight temporal precedence to different, allocentric perspective. So how would the sight of
the activation of specific motor programmes, and should hence the actions of others trigger STS neurons responding to the
average out like noise. Certain special cases, however, could sight of our own actions? First, some STS neurons respond
create close temporal precedence and non-matching contingen- to the sight of an action seen from a number of different per-