would be sent from STS — PM. Because PM neurons (and ent of prior probabilities in Bayesian terms), that are sent from =
the posterior parietal neurons [58]) are organized in action higher to lower brain regions in the hierarchy and are sub- |S
chains within the premotor cortex, the representation of tracted from the actual sensory input. The sensory input that  S
action x3 would then trigger activation of those actions that is sent from lower to higher regions after the subtraction of = &
normally follow action x3 during execution, actively generating predictions is then a prediction error that serves to update pre-
a whole stream of action representations of PM neurons with- dictions, rather than directly driving perception. This very
out the need for any further sensory drive, and these further general framework has been very successfully used to under-
predictions would keep inhibiting future STS input. If action stand neural activity in the early stages of the visual cortex
X2 were to follow action A, the inhibition would be weaker [59,60] but has also recently been used to conceptualize the
and more of the sensory representation of x2 would leak mirror neuron system [50] and even mentalizing [61].
through to PM. This would represent a ‘prediction error’, Evidence for predictive coding in the mirror neuron system
which will change the pattern of PM activity to better match is still rare but starts to emerge. The predictive nature of the
the input, away from the prior expectations. If action x; were PM response is evident from the fact that images of reaching
to follow action A, no cancellation would be in place in the increase the excitability of muscles involved in the most
STS, and the strongest activity would be sent from STS — likely following action phase, grasping [62]. The possibility
PM, rerouting PM activity onto a stream of actions that nor- that PM activity can be driven by internal predictions in the
mally follows x;, rather than x3, as initially hypothesized. absence of explicit visual input comes from the observation

At this temporal resolution, during action observation/ that mirror neurons that respond during the execution of
listening, the pattern of activity across nodes in PM is no grasping respond to the sight of reaching behind an opaque
longer a simple mirror of what happens in STS, but an screen [20] and that auditory mirror neurons that respond to
actively predicted probability distribution for what the obser- the cracking sound of a peanut being shelled start firing
ver should perceive the observed individual to do next. By ahead of this phase when viewing the hands grasping the
virtue of Hebbian learning, the entire STS-PM loop becomes peanut [3]. Evidence that predictions from PM — STS cancel
a dynamic system that performs predictive coding. When the out predicted actions and thereby silence the STS — PM infor-