inactive during conditions in which rivalry is mimicked by

turning the left- and right-eye patterns on and off alternately

over time (figure 1b). These differences in cortical activity 3. Concern 2: distinguishing abolished awareness
during genuine and mimicked rivalry were taken as evidence . .

that endogenous alternations in perception during rivalry from inattention

were controlled by those fronto-parietal networks. It is intuitively clear that there is a tight link between
However, a different slant on this result was offered by directing attention to an item and being aware of that item,
Knapen et al. [41], who opined that the rivalry mimic condition, prompting the question whether attention and awareness
in fact, does not adequately recreate the potentially confusing can, in fact, be studied as separate entities. The answer to
perceptual judgement confronting observers during transitions this question remains a point of contention within the cogni-
in dominance from one rival stimulus to the other. Rather than tive neuroscience literature (for reviews, see [48,49]). Side-
dominance switching abruptly from one stimulus to the other, stepping that debate, we want to discuss a more specific
transitions in dominance are often dynamic and unpredictable: question: is it possible to distinguish a concomitant of stimu-
during a transition, one can experience mixed dominance lus invisibility during rivalry from inattention to that
where bits and pieces of both stimuli are simultaneously visible stimulus? When, for example, rivalry suppression reduces
either superimposed or within different portions of the visual the effectiveness of an adaptation stimulus, is that reduction
field, and the transition itself can resemble a wave whereby one attributable to intermittent awareness of the stimulus or to
image appears to be swept from awareness by the other (figure intermittent withdrawal of attention from the stimulus? Or
1a). Consequently, an observer instructed to track switches in when the fMRI responses vary in strength over time in syn-
dominance (e.g. by pressing buttons) faces uncertainty about chrony with alternations in perceptual dominance of a rival
when or if to make a perceptual report (i.e. button press). The stimulus, is that variation in cortical activity attributable to