

to realize how a function may demonstrate a post-traumatic pattern of interconnections between these elementary func-

functional recovery (although some such models are less categ- tions, computationally constituting a significantly higher
orical and remain open to at least a certain degree of sparing/ level of information processing than that which is achieved
recovery, e.g. [49]). On the other hand, the connectionist frame- by an individual elementary function. Algorithmic modules,
work makes it relatively easier to conceptualize the dynamic however, differ from algorithmic strategies by not being able
network reorganizations seen in post-traumatic cognitive rehab- in themselves to mediate a task solution. The information pro-
ilitation—but can rarely account for the degree and specificity of cessing of an algorithmic module constitutes a computational
initial trauma-associated impairments (e.g. [34,35]). ‘subroutine’, which contributes to a number of algorithmic
Perhaps less theoretically challenging, but important, are strategies. The major distinction between an algorithmic
some of the issues mentioned in §3: the fact that the presence module and an algorithmic strategy is that the information pro-
and nature of brain injury-associated symptoms appear to be cessing of an algorithmic module is, in itself, insufficient to
dependent on details of the method of testing (in such a way mediate a task solution. The distinction between an algorithmic
that apparently cognitively similar variants of a given test may module and an elementary function is that the information pro-
nevertheless provide completely contradictory results [14,15]); cessing of an algorithmic module is more extensive and
and the fact that even for identical injury to the same neural struc- cognitively more specialized than that which is the case for
ture, the post-traumatic neural and cognitive reorganizations will an elementary function.
depend on the task facing the individual [34,35]. A given behavioural pattern or task solution may be
Attempting to establish a comprehensive framework of achieved via different algorithmic strategies. Focal brain
the neural and cognitive mechanisms of post-traumatic injury will deprive the individual of a substantial number
functional recovery within problem solving, the reorganization of elementary functions and thereby all algorithmic strategies
of elementary functions (REF) framework was constructed that depend upon those elementary functions. Thus, injury
[34-36,54,55]. The REF framework essentially describes a will lead to behavioural impairments of tasks previous-