opossums [33] have also found that repatterning is prevalent and a placental (Cryptotis parva, a shrew) [33], as well as
during ontogeny. Some studies of Mus musculus have found late-state ontogeny in Macaca fuscata, a primate [46], confirm-
relative stability of integration during ontogeny [92], but ing that significant repatterning occurs through ontogeny.

the samples represented later stages of ontogeny, in which Interestingly, there was no significant change in cranial


variance through ontogeny in Monodelphis (although variance life history, ecology and morphological evolution, thereby estab- 5 |

was lowest in the youngest stage), while Cryptotis showed a lishing its utility and significance as a concept in evolutionary
significant decrease in variance through ontogeny. This biology. These empirical analyses are crucial because they may a
decline in variance through ontogeny has been observed in reveal patterns that contradict expectations. However, sampling s
previous studies of rodents [93] and suggests that placentals issues with existing datasets, as well as the fact that much of poss- a
and marsupials may be characterized by different trajectories ible organismal variation cannot be sampled because it is extinct © 2
of ontogenetic variance. and not preserved in sufficiently complete states to include Ss
As discussed above, there are significant functional press- in most analyses, means that empirical studies may fall short S
ures on the face and forelimb early in marsupial ontogeny. of providing a full understanding of the evolutionary and =
We suggest that the interaction of strong selection pressure developmental significance of phenotypic integration. 2
in early ontogeny, when cranial integration is also strongest, Ss
may drive low variance during early ontogeny in marsupials. ~

Placental mammals, with their lengthy gestations and lack of 3. Phenotypic integration mediates evolutionary =

continuous suckling in the postnatal, pre-weaning period, are . 5
not subject to these constraints and show much higher var- responses to selection 2