tic action. More than half of the marine regime shifts we cading effects [56,57] or domino effect [58-60]. Further research Ss
analysed (seven to nine) share the drivers global warming, is needed to assess potential domino effects and their likelihood. = &
nutrient inputs, urbanization, fishing, agriculture, demand Given the high co-occurrence of drivers and potential simi-
for food and fibre, and deforestation, which suggests that larities in terms of feedbacks, marine regime shifts seems
better managing these widely shared drivers could decrease highly susceptible to such cascading effects.
the risk of most types of marine regime shifts. Our findings Network analysis was a useful, moderately complex
further show that the scale of management of regime shift method for comparing regime shifts. It allowed us to identify
drivers varies from local to international and suggests that co-occurrence patterns, which would not have been possible if
avoiding marine regime shifts requires coordinated manage- we had relied only on literature review. Network analysis
ment actions across multiple scales. However, this scale allowed us to detect emergent patterns that have not been pre-
diversity means that even when international management viously reported. For example, fishing and nutrient inputs are
fails to occur, such as for climate change, reducing drivers common drivers but they are not often reported together despite
locally has the potential to at least partially compensate for the fact that they co-occur strongly. Similarly impacts on cultural
global drivers of regime shifts. For example, local manage- services appear to be common across a wide range of regime
ment of fisheries and watersheds has been found to delay shifts. Many published analyses of regime shifts rely strongly
coral reef collapse by up to a decade in the Caribbean [44]. on statistical methods whose assumptions avoid colinearity.
The occurrence of marine regime shifts appears to be highly This might constrain managerial advice to factors with strong
determined by local ecosystem conditions such as trait diver- statistical signals and leave aside other potential pathways
sity [20], the latitudinal location of the sea, how enclosed it is that can also cause the regime shift. Using network analysis
[45], structure of food web [46], as well as the heterogeneity of allowed us to include less-studied variables, potentially
drivers changing from place to place [47-49]. The significant colinear, that give us a more holistic perspective regarding
impact of global drivers indicated by our analysis emphasizes drivers, impacts and potential management opportunities.

the importance of regional transboundary management and
international efforts, because most drivers, for instance