gated further below). The mean error in the geometric the combinatorial power of the grid code can be exploited.
system lies at the 15.4th percentile of the distribution of As noted in §1, the spatial firing patterns of the grid cells
random scales, showing that on average a geometric series within the same module appear to be coherent [18], and we
performs somewhat better than a random series with a simi- have seen that increasing the number of grid cells within each
lar range of scales but that this advantage is slight and all module mitigates the effects of noisy firing (§3a). Thus, the
systems exhibit only precision errors. The five randomly gen- encoding of location within each module appears to be
erated grid systems that gave the lowest decoding errors robust. However, the spatial representations of each module
(rank first to fifth) as well as the five yielding the highest can shift relative to each other [3]. This decoupling implies
errors (rank 996th to 1000th) are shown in figure 3h. The that each module performs its own independent estimation of
best performing random systems include more small-scale location (e.g. each receiving independent movement and/or
grid modules than the poorly performing systems, which location-related signals). This type of spatial noise or uncer-
are dominated by larger scale grids, and so somewhat tainty will cause shifts in the relative locations represented by
resemble the geometric series of scales. This reflects the fact different modules, with potentially strong implications for
that, on the 18 m track with 100 grids per module, ambiguity ambiguity errors. Following the experimental observation of
errors are unlikely to occur, and so the maximum decoding grid scale expansion in novel environments [13], we examined
accuracy is obtained by minimizing precision errors—hence whether a uniform expansion of all grid scales might be an opti-
small grid scales are favoured. mal response to spatial uncertainty in terms of reducing the
Figure 3i provides an indication of the actual capacity of the decoding error.
grid system and how this compares to the 18 m track used in the Spatial uncertainty was simulated by adding random off-
previous simulations. Specifically, decoding error of a geo- sets in the locations represented by different grid modules,
metric system with scale ratio 1.4 and 100 grids per module is and all grid scales were multiplied by a single expansion
examined on tracks of increasing length. In all cases, the decod- factor. The offsets were taken from Gaussian distributions
ing errors are small, consisting mainly of precision errors even with zero mean, increasing the standard deviation to

on the largest track (500 m), suggesting that the maximum simulate increasing uncertainty (see §2d for details).