how infant communication works, the corresponding age ence for one object, had not yet seen one object or had just lost
range falls somewhere between the onset of intentional com- an object [19-22].
munication at around 10-12 months of age [9] and the onset Perhaps most interesting in this respect are pointing ges-
of two-word combinations towards the end of the second tures, because pointing itself only directs attention to a region
year, when infants begin to rely on language more so than ges- in space, but leaves open the question to what the pointer
ture [10] and develop symbolic understanding more fully [11]. refers (the referential intention) and why he refers to it (the
The findings also raise developmental questions about the ori- motive or social intention) [23]. In one study [24], an exper-
gins of these skills. But the evidence is still scarce, and I imenter pointed to one of two boxes, each containing a
therefore limit myself to briefly discussing at the end of each hidden toy, to request it from infants. Seventeen-month-
section possibilities that derive from the current approach olds had no problem inferring that the point to the opaque
and findings. As already alluded to, there is much more to box referred to the object inside (and not to the box itself;
say about developmental relations to language acquisition, for similar results with 12-month-olds, see [25]). However,
and the current approach, in fact, builds on theories that when the objects were swapped unbeknownst to the exper-
treat social cognition and interaction as a necessary foundation imenter, and she then pointed to a box, infants apparently
for language acquisition, and on numerous findings that inferred the object she had in mind, namely the one that
reveal developmental relations between infants’ communica- was now in the other box, and offered that object. The
tive behaviours and language acquisition. To name a few, reviewed findings thus reveal infants’ flexible understanding

infants’ gestures and shared activities are longitudinally of reference. However, infants also interpret flexibly why


someone points to an otherwise identifiable referent. For the second year, with some of the reviewed studies suggesting | 3 |

example, 18-month-olds may interpret a point to a puzzle more competence in 18- compared with 12-month-olds. How-
piece as a directive to complete the puzzle; or as a directive ever, one should note that task demands vary substantially a