word or the gesture was semantically anomalous with respect taken into account, providing evidence against independent
to the previous sentence context. Both the semantically anom- processing of the two channels (figure 1b). Furthermore and
alous gestures and anomalous words to previous sentence crucially, this effect was bidirectional and was found to be
context elicited identical N400 effects, in terms of the latency similar when either speech or gesture targets matched or
and the amplitude. mismatched the action primes. That is, gesture influenced pro-

Using an functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) cessing of speech processing and speech influenced processing
method, Straube et al. [34] have attempted to isolate the of gesture.
brain’s activation in response to iconic gestures to see Gestures’ influence on accompanying speech was also
whether it overlaps with areas involved in processing detected in online measures of comprehending speech.
verbal semantics. fMRI measures brain activity by detecting Kelly et al. [37] found that ERPs to spoken words (targets)
associated changes in blood flow (i.e. blood-oxygen-level- were modulated when these words were accompanied by
dependent (BOLD) response), relying on the fact that blood gestures (primes) that contained information about the size
flow and neural activation are coupled. In this study, they and shape of objects that the target words referred to (e.g.
compared the brain’s activation triggered by meaningful tall, wide, etc.). Compared to matching target words, mis-
spoken sentences (S+) with sentences from an unknown matching words evoked an early P1/N2 effect, followed by
language (S—), and they also compared activation for co- an N400 effect, suggesting an influence of gesture on
speech gestures presented without their accompanying spoken words, first at the level of ‘sensory/phonological’

speech (G+), and meaningless gestures also without speech processing and later at the level of semantic processing.


(a)

action prime