
I end by asking what it might mean to widen the lens on However, gesture does not appear to pave the way for
language in the manual modality, that is, to look at gesture pro- early verbs—although we might have expected iconic ges-
duced along with sign language. Signers do gesture when they tures that depict actions to precede, and predict, the onset
sign [8]. Like the gestures that accompany speech, the gestures of verbs, they do not. Ozcaliskan et al. [11] observed spon-
that accompany sign are analogue in form, and thus comp- taneous speech and gestures in 40 English-learning children
lement the discrete, segmented categories found in sign (and from ages 14 to 34 months and found that the children pro-
speech). But, unlike gesture and speech, gesture and sign are pro- duced their first iconic gestures for actions six months later
duced in the same (manual) modality. The question I ask is than their first verbs. The onset of iconic gestures conveying
whether the gestures that accompany sign play the same role action meanings thus followed, rather than preceded, chil-
in learning as the gestures that accompany speech. Addressing dren’s first verbs.! But iconic gestures did increase in
this question allows us to determine whether gesture’s impor- frequency at the same time that verbs did and, at that time,
tance in learning stems from the fact that it is produced in a children used these action gestures to convey specific verb
different modality from speech or from the fact that it represents meanings that they were not yet expressing in speech. Chil-
information in a qualitatively different format from speech. dren thus do use gesture to expand their repertoire of verb

What I hope to show is that widening the lens on language meanings, but only after they have begun to acquire the
to include the manual modality gives us deeper insight into the verb system underlying their language.

nature and the time course of language learning and learning
in general, and can also give us insight into the relationship

between language and cognition. In addition, by investigat- (ii) Sentences

ing how the manual modality can be used to create language Even though they treat gestures like words in some respects,