
the affricate manner of articulation (e.g. the palato-alveolar
affricate [t{]) was associated with light motions in Japanese,
but with heavy motions in English. These disagreements

4, Development of language-specific versus may be explained by the cross-linguistic differences in the
. : phonological status of these sounds. For example, in Japa-
universal sound symbolism nese, the phone [t§] often appears secondarily, as a result of
There has been an assumption in the literature that sound the palatalization process (in a context such as /ty/), whereas
symbolism is universal; if a certain sound—meaning correspon- this is not the case in English. In any case, this result implies
dence is identified by speakers of one language, this should be that language-specific sound symbolism exists and that cross-
generalizable to speakers of any other languages. This assump- linguistically shared and language-specific parts of sound
tion has been supported by the fact that speakers of many symbolism are intricately intertwined within each language.
different languages sense Kohler’s shape sound symbolism How, then, does the sensitivity to language-specific and
[26] in the same way, as reviewed earlier (for English [32], universal sound symbolism develop in children? One possi-
Japanese [68,69], Himba [27], Kitwonge-Swahili bilinguals bility is that young children first detect only sound
[70]). Furthermore, some aspects of sound symbolism in words symbolism that is shared universally, and later learn
in a given language can successfully be decoded by speakers of language-specific sound symbolism through learning of their
another language (Japanese sound symbolic words for laugh- native language. An alternative possibility, however, is that
ing/smiling and for pain by English speaker [71,72]; see also young children are sensitive to all possible sound symbolic
Imai et al.’s result [63] for motion sound symbolism). The finding correspondences that could appear in any language of the
that people can correctly match a pair of antonyms in a foreign world, but only a subset of these correspondences are compa-
language to the corresponding pair of words in their native tible with the phonological inventory and the existing words in
language [73-75] also endorses this view. the language the children are learning. As they grow up, the
However, some sound symbolic words in a given sensitivity to the incompatible correspondences wanes, and