and use of multiple channels (vocal and visual) and formats sophisticated linguistic system. Of course, this must also be
(iconic and arbitrary) of expression [6,115,116]. the case to some extent. As adult language users, our mastery
Thus, we would reject the notion that our approach of sophisticated and highly abstract linguistic systems is
focuses on aspects of communication that are not central to notable, and as children (especially learning Indo-European
language because they cannot be readily formalized in terms languages), we learn substantial vocabularies that conform

of linguistic structure. Rather, our approach represents a more to the standard tenet of arbitrariness.


There are two critical points to make, however. First, if idea that the structure of language reflects the structure of

iconicity plays a pivotal role in establishing displacement experience. For example, the principle of ‘iconicity of sequence’
in evolution, this fact already makes iconicity more than (or ‘sequential order’) holds that the sequence of forms
just a marginal phenomenon. Second, and more crucially, conforms to the sequence of experience, as in the famous collo-
we would not expect effects of iconicity in language proces- cation veni, vidi, vici. The principle of ‘iconicity of contiguity’ (or
sing and acquisition if the role of iconicity were limited to ‘linguistic proximity’) assumes that forms that belong together
jump-starting referentiality in evolution; however, we do conceptually and semantically will occur closer together
find such effects of iconicity. As we have discussed, there is morphosyntactically than forms that are conceptually and
a growing body of evidence showing effects of iconicity in semantically unrelated (cf. Bybee’s [128] analysis of the proxi-
processing and acquisition. mity relation between verb stem and inflectional categories

Finally, there is still a different way in which iconicity may according to conceptual relevance). For sign languages, the
be argued not to reflect general properties of language. There opposite may be true: iconicity in the lexicon has always been
is clearly a disproportionate amount of iconicity in sign acknowledged, whereas descriptions of grammatical aspects
languages in comparison to spoken languages. This may be of sign language structure included iconicity much later by