promotes objectivity. Interestingly, the analogy between system in cellular life is to try to come up with pre-Darwinian w
human and cellular symbol use was used by the first molecular reasons for how such an intentional system might have arisen | ©
biologists to reason about cells, not the other way around [13,17]. out of prebiotic situations lacking intentionality. 8
B
SI

2. Origin versus evolution 3. A second origin
In discussions about how life came into existence, it is common In thinking about the origin of the higher-level symbol-using
to distinguish the origin of life from the Darwinian evolution of system in human language and culture, the situation is quite
life [18]. The core of every living cell is a system for converting a bit more complex as human language was built upon a pre-
genes into proteins—that is, DNA symbol sequences into existing cellular genetic system that was already capable of
amino acid meaning chains that spontaneously fold into the Darwinian evolution. Despite huge differences in scale, it is
three-dimensional molecular machinery of the cell, which a remarkable fact that the fundamental rate of meaning
includes enzymes, receptors, fantastical diffusion-driven mem- assembly in these two very differently scaled systems
brane rotors for generating ATP [19], force-producing strands is almost the same—a handful of amino acids per second, a
that use ATP and so on. Though this is confusingly called handful of word meanings per second. Despite this simi-
‘protein translation’ for historical reasons (based on the orig- larity, language-based cultural evolution is much faster
inal molecular biologists’ casual and faulty analogy with than biological evolution; lately, it has gotten so fast that bio-
Morse code!), it is now understood by molecular biologists logical evolution is effectively stationary by comparison
as the process by which DNA symbol strings are turned into (there is precious little ‘nature untouched by humans’ left).
phenotypic protein meanings. The faster speed of cultural, language-based evolution is lar-

The problem of the origin of such a system, however, is not gely attributable to the fact that cellular symbols strings
really an evolutionary problem in the usual Darwinian sense of (DNA and RNA) are comprehended (turned into protein
the word. If we shrink ourselves down to molecular size and meanings) but never produced from meanings; cells instead