patterns from their peers, still come to produce their species- to convey specific content. Nor do birds appear to produce
specific sound repertoire when deafened at birth [52]. In anything like ‘words’ by recombining their ‘syllables’ in
many respects, it might be more accurate to call it ‘birdspeech’, order to signify concepts. Despite having motor, vocaliza-
because birdsong differs from human singing and musical per- tion and auditory equipment ideally suited to support the
formance in many ways; for example, birdsong lacks a regular re-combinable speech-symbol half of a language-like
metre, musical tonality and harmony (though see European meaning-conveying system, birdsong seems to communicate
starlings on ‘harmony’ in §13). only very general meanings. Songs serve to mark territories,
The parallel evolution of fine-grained vocal control in singing identify the singer’s species, attract mates and cause ovula-

birds affords a crucial comparative perspective on the anatomical tion, often all at once. The messages communicated by


birdsong are, in fact, less content-filled than the messages com- speech-like vocal learning system can evolve without a 6 |

municated by, for example, vervet monkey calls—which have ‘semantic urge’ [65]. Humpback whales learn to precisely
been shown to signify rather elaborate distinctions among reproduce long sequences of sounds and culturally transmit a
predators and conspecifics [44], despite the fact that these them to animals that are genetically unrelated. The main s
unlearned, unitary calls are drastically simpler than birdsong. difference is that whale songs are lower in pitch, and individ- © =
oS
This difference in referential content is particularly obvious ual songs unfold over a minute instead of several seconds. © 2
when we consider the ‘meaning’ of a handful of syllables of a The underwater acoustic environment of the ocean is quite Ss
songbird’s song; though emotion is keenly involved in motivat- reverberant, due to the faster and more efficient propagation S
ing the bird to begin singing, the identity and order of syllables of sound in water and as a result of reflections from the | 2°
carry no additional specific emotional baggage. air—water boundary. This may be one reason for whales’ ‘5
Attempts to find particular ordering patterns in bird song more leisurely tempi. As with birdsong, whale song has ©