may propagate in diverse ways, exploiting whenever possible nation, in social bonding and in the propagation of some
all the dispositions and susceptibilities of the host population. cultural traits, such as linguistic accent and culture-specific
However, a pervasive idealization in the study of cultural evol- bodily postures [21]. All this makes it possible to state with con-
ution has been that culture is transmitted only or largely fidence that cultural propagation operates not through one, but
through imitation-based copying. No doubt this occurs, but through many basic mechanisms of cognition (in particular
just as it would be very surprising to find an animal population memory) and transmission (in particular various forms of imi-
with only viral diseases, it would be very surprising to discover tation, communication and teaching). Indeed, the acquisition of
that human culture is made up entirely of items that propagate cultural items may be one of the proper functions of some
through imitation, when humans have so many other ways to of these mechanisms [22].
share information that might also lead to its population-scale There is a second and worse problem with the above argu-
propagation. The mechanisms of cultural propagation are ment. While some cultural items may indeed be propagated by
instead many and varied, and often involve re-production, or imitation and other forms of copying, it is clear that a large
recurrence, rather than just reproduction. This fact, and the epi- number are not. In particular, many are also (re-)constructed.
demiological character of cultural propagation more generally, For example, a student taking notes in a lecture does not
has, we shall now argue, important consequences for how we simply copy any spelling error that the lecturer happens to
understand the dynamics of cultural evolution. write down, but will in fact, in her own notes, correct the

error and in doing so re-construct the correct spelling. As

such, cultural propagation is partly preservative, but also

3. Preservative and constructive aspects partly (re-)constructive, to different degrees in each particular

ss case. As such, it is not only a matter of inheritance, as is gener-
