of utterances of the word ‘data’ being pronounced date, and of RNA retroviruses that propagate through reverse transcrip- 3
86% date. tion into DNA). Table 4 represents in a much simplified way ©
We now illustrate how ECMs relate to existing models, the causal relations between mental representations (MR) and
beginning with the basic case of Darwinian selection. Con- public telling (PT) of a folktale.
sider the Ixx cells on the upper left/lower right diagonal in Note that the folktale case so described can also be accom-
an ECM. They represent the impact that items of type X at modated within a selectional framework by approaching it in
t have on the frequency of the same type X at t+1 (a a more coarse-grained way. For this, one should pick, even if
causal effect we may call homo-impact, distinguishing it at the cost of some arbitrariness, either the mental or the
from relationships of hetero-impact among items of different public versions of the tale as the ‘real’ cultural items and con-
types). If practically all the impacts on items in P are homo- sider the alternation in the propagation process of mental and
impacts, as in table 3, then the values in the diagonal can public version as an aspect of the mechanism of propagation
be interpreted as reproduction rate, and determine the evol- that can be ignored in the evolutionary model. To go this
ution of the system in the standard selectional way. way, one has to idealize away the facts that (i) tellings of a
Negligible values in the cells that are not on the diagonal tale are not identical to one another, (ii) mental versions are
can be interpreted as a mutation rate. Note that in such constructive syntheses of the interpretation of several tellings
cases equation (4.1) reduces to the discrete replicator rather than mere registrations and (iii) tellings are not public
dynamics, F(t +1) = Fa()lAa/ Diep Filtlii- production of an internally memorized text but construction
Quite generally, previous models of cultural evolution of a new public version on the basis of memorized infor-
have made the simplifying assumption that cultural items mation that is not in text form. For the reasons already
reproduce with rates of mutation that, although higher than argued in this paper, we think that interesting and important
those found in gene replication, are still low enough, given aspects not just of the mechanics of the propagation of folk-
selection pressures, to secure the dynamics of Darwinian tales but also of their evolutionary dynamics are missed
selection. We have argued that this assumption is not based when these facts are idealized away.
on empirical evidence that cultural items in general propagate Two other interesting cases are provided by pairs of items
through copying, as opposed to other forms of transmission that have exactly the same impact on themselves and on each