K-Pg boundary, but fail to explain their long-term success through rewiring of their interaction network in combination 2
in terms of speciation and biological novelty. For all examples with neo- and subfunctionalization, acquired roles in several &
we considered, it was apparent that the duplication of the major plant developmental processes [8,146]. a
whole genome provided an increase in raw genetic material w
on which evolution could work. In accordance with Ohno’s 2
classical models [130,131], the newly created gene copies ; 8
could undergo neofunctionalization (the creation of a new 6. Conclusion 3
function), subfunctionalization (the division of an ancestral Advances in plant genomics, molecular sequence divergence | &
function or functions over the daughter copies), or be kept estimation and high-performance computational solutions
for dosage amplification (the production of more of a allow us to address questions about the role of genome dupli-
beneficial gene product) or any combination thereof as cation that were previously impossible to investigate. It
explained by more complex population genetic models should be emphasized that the fate of most newly formed
[132]. Although the fate of most duplicated genes is in fact polyploids appears an evolutionary dead end through
loss through pseudogenization [1], WGDs provide a massive outcompetition by their diploid specialized progenitors
number of contemporarily created gene duplicates, of which [147-149] because of a whole range of associated negative
only a small fraction seems to have contributed to some major effects such as minority cytotype exclusion [90], severe meio-
biological innovations and/or elaborations. tic and mitotic abnormalities [150] and ploidy-associated

It has become increasingly clear that rather than just the genomic instability [79]. Nevertheless, it appears that there
functional divergence of the coding regions and/or regulat- exists a strong link between environmental stress and/or fluc-
ory sequences of individual genes, the rewiring of the tuation and genome duplication, as currently supported by
regulatory network containing these individual components both present-day polyploids and palaeopolyploids at the
following WGD is of major importance [133,134]. A body K-Pg boundary. Could unreduced plant gamete production
of literature exists demonstrating that regulatory and devel- have increased polyploid formation at the K-Pg boundary?
opmental genes in particular are retained in excess after Alternatively, can the apparent prevalence of polyploids at