indication of the ‘sampling rate’ of a given neural network, the frequency range of pitch [1,103,107].
i.e. not only the latency to process a single input but also the Stability, tolerance and invariance in periodicity perception
timing necessary between successive inputs to be processed. might result from nonlinear transformations of the sound’s
This concept was used in Nozaradan et al. [39] to reveal the res- spectral content at various levels of the auditory pathway
onance frequencies thought to shape musical beat and meter [104,107]. This is illustrated for example by the missing funda-
perception. By showing that the selective enhancement of the mental phenomenon, in which a pitch can be induced at a
neural response at frequencies corresponding to the perceived given frequency although this frequency is not conveyed in
beat and meter occurs within a specific frequency range, the the sound input in reality. Similarly, a beat percept can be
results of this study suggest that beat and meter perception is induced by a rhythmic pattern at a frequency that is not present
supported by entrainment and resonance phenomena within in the sound envelope, as illustrated in highly syncopated
the responding neural network [16]. thythms [108,109].

In addition to the frequency tuning function, another tem- In fact, one may speculate that meter and pitch emerge
poral aspect crucial to beat perception is the phase selected for from similar physiological properties of the auditory neur-
the beat within a given rhythmic pattern. To this end, the high ons, but occurring at different frequency ranges (between
signal-to-noise ratio obtained by the frequency-tagging method 30 and 20000 Hz for the pitch, and between 0.5 and 5 Hz
may help to recover phase information [31], although this for the meter). For instance, it could be hypothesized that
possibility has not been exploited in the studies reviewed here. the processing of periodicities (detection and reconstruction)

within the frequency range specific to beat and meter could

be supported by brain areas specifically devoted to this pro-
(c) Sound envelope and beat induction cessing and functionally organized as an array of band-pass
In our experiments, the stimuli have been designed such as to filters (i.e. a model similar to models proposed for pitch)
induce the beat and meter exclusively based on the dynamics [103]. Interestingly, the neural responses corresponding to