between conditions (synchronous and asynchronous), for inherent in interpersonal synchrony specifically encourages — >
both researchers, the raters showed no evidence that the prosocial behaviours that rely on the perception of joint © =
researcher preferred the infants in either the synchronous or action, as would be expected in instrumental helping beha- yy
asynchronous condition, t7 = 0.11, p= 0.91 for Researcher A viours. In addition, this sharing measure may have been 2
and ty = —1.80, p = 0.11 for Researcher B. inappropriate for the age group in question. In the first year &
after birth, infants tend to share resources indiscriminately. a
By 2 years of age, children become more selective about w
. . whom they share with and start sharing at a cost to them- | ©
4. Discussion selves [53]. It is possible that our ceiling effect represents &
The results support the hypothesis that interpersonal rhyth- this indiscriminate sharing behaviour that is typical of this 3
mic synchrony acts as a social cue, as opposed to a social younger age group [54]. The differential effects of synchrony = S
prime. Infants who were bounced synchronously with the on sharing and instrumental helping measures in this study
experimenter were more likely to help that experimenter highlight the fact that the way prosociality is measured
than a neutral stranger with whom they did not experience must be clearly defined in studies of interpersonal synchrony.
synchronous movement. Furthermore, infants in the synchro- It is interesting to note that the movement experience by the
nous bouncing condition were significantly more likely to infants was passively generated. The infants were not moving
help the experimenter than infants in the asynchronous boun- to the music on their own; rather, the assistant was passively
cing condition, but this was not the case for helping directed bouncing them. In older age groups, the effect of synchrony
toward the neutral stranger. Interestingly, socially relevant on prosociality has been measured when participants engage
personality measures from the parent report IBQ (smiling in self-generated active movements that align temporally
and approach) correlated significantly with helping directed with the movement of others [7-12]. In the present experiment
at the neutral stranger but not helping directed at the exper- and in our previous investigation [13], the effect was measured
imenter, which was driven instead by the experimental in 14-month-olds who experienced passive movement while
manipulation. This suggests that experiencing synchrony being held in a carrier and bounced by an adult. Passive move-
with an adult overrides infants’ intrinsic tendencies to be ments have been shown to influence beat and meter perception