trols from speakers with dysarthria, as well as different metric to produce reliable and valid results. Yet, the articula-
types of dysarthria from each other. They found that variants tory deviations associated with disordered speech might
of the PVI and Varco metrics were particularly successful in affect this level of analysis. For examples, many speakers
discriminating speakers from each other, but that the focus of with MSD show a certain level of hypernasality, which can
the comparison determined which of the measures was opti- blur the boundaries between nasal consonants and vowels.
mal, ie. a metric might be better suited to identify speakers Similarly, poor laryngeal control can result in the devoicing
with PD than those with ataxia, and in some cases, a combination of vowels, potentially leading researchers to inappropriately
of predictor variables was most effective to differentiate speaker attribute parts of the waveform to consonant duration
groups. It is noteworthy that in a subsequent study by Kim et al. rather than the vowel interval. No study to date has
[27], the PVI was not successful in distinguishing different types addressed the impact of articulatory deviations in disordered
of dysarthric speakers from each other (no results are reported in speech on the results of rhythm metrics, again raising the
relation to healthy controls). The authors state that this might question whether the observed differences in speech timing
have been partly due to the use of the non-normalized version can in fact be equated with perceivable rhythm problems or
of the PVI, as opposed to the rate-normalized nPVI-V from the might be artefacts of other articulatory symptoms.
Liss et al. [20] study. However, it could also have been the case Finally, existing studies can be criticized in relation to their
that the PVI was unable to capture the particular characteristic lack of variety of elicitation measures. It is by now well
that differentiated their speaker groups, similar to Liss et al.’s accepted that the phonotactic nature of the speech material
[20] findings that the best distinguishing metric depended on can have substantial effects on rhythm in healthy speakers
the type of disorder under investigation. [29-31]. These effects can be exacerbated in clinical research,
Kim et al.’s [27] results aside, there are thus a small number ie. not only do disordered speakers vary in their rhythmic per-
of clinical research reports based on group data which confirm formance across tasks, the extent of difference to typical
the suitability of cross-linguistic metrics for the quantifica- populations can also change. This is clearly highlighted by
tion of type and severity of disordered rhythm. However, Henrich et al. [28], whose speakers with ataxic dysarthria per-
before these measures can be fully accepted as valid tools, we formed within normal limits while reading a passage or a
need to take a step back and consider whether they can limerick, but differed significantly in their PVI values for spon-