the type of disorder under investigation. [29-31]. These effects can be exacerbated in clinical research,
Kim et al.’s [27] results aside, there are thus a small number ie. not only do disordered speakers vary in their rhythmic per-
of clinical research reports based on group data which confirm formance across tasks, the extent of difference to typical
the suitability of cross-linguistic metrics for the quantifica- populations can also change. This is clearly highlighted by
tion of type and severity of disordered rhythm. However, Henrich et al. [28], whose speakers with ataxic dysarthria per-
before these measures can be fully accepted as valid tools, we formed within normal limits while reading a passage or a
need to take a step back and consider whether they can limerick, but differed significantly in their PVI values for spon-
indeed capture the intricacies of rhythmic performance ina dis- taneous speech. While it is not feasible for investigations to
ordered population in a clinically useful way. In order for these include a variety of dysarthria types, rhythm measures and eli-
measures to function as effective diagnostic markers, they need citation tasks, it is clear that the latter needs to be carefully
to be able to not only indicate the presence of speech timing controlled and ideally more research should focus on the dif-
changes, but also to characterize their nature. The most signifi- ferences across tasks in order to establish the optimum
cant shortcoming of the research cited above is the fact that assessment task for a disordered speaker and establish the
none of these studies validated their acoustic results with per- extent of variability that can be expected across different tasks.
ceptual measures. While each of the disorders investigated to This paper aims to address two of the above concerns
date (ataxic, hypokinetic, hyperkinetic as well as mixed spas- and investigates in detail how individual speech production
tic-flaccid dysarthria) no doubt showed differences in speech characteristics relate to acoustic-based metrics of speech timing
timing compared with typical speakers as reflected by the in order to establish (i) to what degree they can act as valid diag-
rhythm metrics employed, the question arises to what degree nostic markers for rhythmic disorder and (ii) whether any
these deviations actually corresponded to the perceptual methodological issues might have to be taken into account in
notion of distorted rhythm. This issue is underlined by the applying such methods to a clinical population. While the

fact that traditionally, only ataxic dysarthria has been issue of elicitation method is not directly addressed in this

