Apart from centrioles, another main character in the plot is trosome is not present in all multicellular organisms, nor in
the pericentriolar material (PCM), also known as the centro- all cells of a given organism, one must ask what this organelle
somal matrix, an electron-dense region that surrounds the adds to the cell economy that explains its presence as well as
centriolar cylinders, particularly their proximal part, and its specialization in different biological systems. It is now well
together with them constitutes the centrosome (figure 1a). It recognized that the centrosome evolved from an ancestral
is now clear that centrioles and PCM are intimately linked to basal body/ flagellum [13]. Whatever the actual scenario for
fulfil the numerous functions of the centrosome. However, the origin of the centrosome organelle in the Amorphea line-
when the centrosome was equated to an MTOC—when micro- age (see chapter by Juliette Azimzadeh) [14], it is interesting
tubule nucleation was the main function envisaged for the to consider what consequences the many variations in centro-
entire organelle—the dominant view was that centrioles were some structure and composition observed in extant
not important for centrosome function. That centrioles are eukaryotes may have on centrosome function. For instance,
instrumental in maintaining centrosome integrity was demon- what are the functional consequences associated with the
strated in human cells by injection of monoclonal antibodies fact that many of the genes encoding centrosomal com-
against polyglutamylated tubulin, a post-translational modifi- ponents present in unicellular organisms and in vertebrate
cation of a- and B-tubulin particularly prevalent in centrioles species are missing in Drosophila or in C. elegans?

[8]; see §5). This led to centriole loss and subsequent dissol-
ution of the entire centrosome. In Caenorhabditis elegans,
partial depletion of centriolar components by RNAi results in
smaller centrioles that recruit less PCM than in the wild-type,

5. On centriolar microtubules

further indicating that PCM-size scales with centriolar mate- The microtubules that make up the walls of centrioles have a
rial [9,10] . Therefore, centrioles play a fundamental role in unique organization, unlike that of any other microtubule in