450 nm long and have several layers of stacks in the proximal discuss later, it seems possible that the cartwheel stack may
approximately 100 nm of the organelle (figures 1 and 2a). How- first assemble without pinheads and polarity, and pinheads
ever, an exceptionally long (approx. 4 zm) centriole is present in and microtubules assemble on the cartwheel afterwards.
Trichonympha [1] and is shown to contain hundreds of cartwheel The cartwheel observed by conventional electron microscopy
layers that fill approximately 90% of the lumen (figure 2d). in an aquatic fungus, Phlyctochytrium, shows a thin filament at
A stage-dependent variation is found in Chlamydomonas and approximately 20 nm from the hub, the position where the two
Spermatozopsis centrioles; centrioles in developing stages con- spokes in adjacent layers merge in the Trichonympha cartwheel
tain 7-10 layers of cartwheels, while those in the mature stage [5]. This filament possibly functions as a cross-link between
contain two to four layers (figure 2a,b) [16-18]. In mammalian the spokes. In the Chlamydomonas cartwheel, similar but more
centrosomes, cartwheels are present in the procentriole but irregular filaments are observed near the pinhead [26,27]. It is
disappear during mitosis (figure 2c) [8,19]. tempting to speculate that these filaments function to stabilize

Cryo-electron tomography determined the cartwheel struc- the radial arrangement of the nine spokes. In fact, the radial
ture of Trichonympha at a resolution of 38-42 A (figure 3) arrangement of spokes appears to be stable even without sur-
[20,21]. This high resolution was achieved by averaging the rounding microtubules [6,28]. Whether these putative linking
images of a large number of stacked cartwheels. The reconsti- filaments are generally present in cartwheels of all species
tuted three-dimensional structure shows cartwheels occurring awaits further studies.

as stacked layers as previously thought, although there was a
proposal that the extensive cartwheel stack might be produced

by helical assembly of the components [22]. The central hub is a 3. Functions of the cartwheel
ring with a diameter of approximately 22 nm stacked with an
8.5 nm periodicity (figure 3a,b). The spoke is approximately (a) A brief history
50 nm long between the ring and the pinhead. Interestingly, Since first described in 1960, the cartwheel has been found in