interact with each other through a hydrophobic interaction SAS-6. The interaction is mostly between hydrophobic residues in the head
between the head domains (figure 6b). In the latter interaction, domain. The hydrophobic Phe131 residue of one head is inserted into a hydro-
an Ile (C. elegans) or a Phe (Chlamydomonas and zebrafish) phobic pocket in the other head. Some of the residues that form the
residue within a loop in one head is inserted into a hydro- hydrophobic pocket are indicated. (c) SAS-6 ring model predicted by the struc-
phobic pocket in the other head. Although this hydrophobic ture. Nine SAS-6 dimers assemble into a ring with nine radiating filaments. This
interaction is weak (Ky for C. elegans, zebrafish and human structure constitutes the central part of the cartwheel. (d) Localization of the
SAS-6s are approx. 110, approx. 90 and approx. 50 1M, respect- cartwheel components. SAS-6/Bld12p constitutes the cartwheel hub and
ively), mutational analyses demonstrated that it is essential for the central part of the spoke. Cep135/Bld10p constitutes the pinhead and a
centriole assembly. These results led to a model in which nine distal part of the spoke shaft and connects the cartwheel to the microtubules.
dimers assemble into a ring through the head-to-head inter- Localizations of these proteins partially overlap. SAS-5/Ana2 may cross-link two
action, and the head ring and the coiled-coil tails constitute cartwheel spokes at a site approximately 20 nm apart from the hub ring (see
the hub and the spokes of the native cartwheel (figure 6c). In text). SAS-4/CPAP is localized around the microtubule. Localization of STIL,
fact, SAS-6 dimers in solution form oligomers, including non- which binds to CPAP, is not established. (Online version in colour.)

amers [24], and a ring structure having a diameter close to
that of the cartwheel hub [23]. The model predicts that the

C-terminus of the SAS-6 molecule should be localized distal tube is composed of SAS-6 (ceSAS-6), which shares a common
to the hub. Immunoelectron microscopy of Chlamydomonas domain structure with other SAS-6 family members. Because
cells expressing Bld12p tagged with HA at the C-terminus the tube looks very different from the cartwheel—it is rather an
confirms the predicted orientation [24,51]. Considering the amorphous tube with a diameter about half as large as that of
cartwheel function in centriole assembly, all these findings the cartwheel—it is puzzling how it functions in the establish-
collectively indicate that the oligomerization properties of ment of the ninefold symmetry of the centriole. However, a
SAS-6/Bld12p are crucial for stabilization of the ninefold recent study proposed a model that can explain the mechanism
symmetry of the centriole. [52]. In contrast to zebrafish SAS-6 or Chlamydomonas Bld12p