confirms the predicted orientation [24,51]. Considering the amorphous tube with a diameter about half as large as that of
cartwheel function in centriole assembly, all these findings the cartwheel—it is puzzling how it functions in the establish-
collectively indicate that the oligomerization properties of ment of the ninefold symmetry of the centriole. However, a
SAS-6/Bld12p are crucial for stabilization of the ninefold recent study proposed a model that can explain the mechanism
symmetry of the centriole. [52]. In contrast to zebrafish SAS-6 or Chlamydomonas Bld12p

Centriole assembly in C. elegans does not conform to the cart- forming dimers that self-assemble into a ring, X-ray crystallogra-
wheel-centred pathway; as mentioned before, microtubules phy of ceSAS-6 predicts that it forms dimers that will assemble

assemble around the central tube, instead of the cartwheel. The into a right-handed helical filament with spokes projecting


outwards. In fact, a ceSAS-6 variant, which is designed to dis- and the C-terminal portion of SAS-6 overlap [24,26]. Further-

play stronger inter-dimer association, assembles in vitro into a more, a human Cep135 fragment (spanning the C-terminal

helical filament with approximately 31 nm pitch as predicted 64%; residues 416-1140), expressed in cultured cells, directly a
by the model, as well as a double-stranded filament with binds to an SAS-6 fragment that includes the C-terminal portion s
two tightly inter-wound helical filaments. Because the single- of its coiled-coil domain and the non-conserved domain [56]. a
stranded helix has nine dimers every two turns, the single- or Hence it is conceivable that Bld10p extends the spoke bya = 2-
double-stranded helices display the ninefold radial symmetry direct association with the tail of the SAS-6 dimer, or possibly 3
every 62 or 31 nm. Thus, the single- or double-stranded helical with an associated pair of tails [20,21], and helps connect S
filament could serve as the scaffold for the assembly of nine the spoke to the microtubule (figure 6d). More details of the =
microtubules. In addition, the diameter and length of the central Bld10p folding at the spoke tip will certainly be clarified $
tube in the C. elegans centriole closely correspond to four turns of by cryo-electron tomographic analysis of cartwheels containing . ‘©