So far we have detailed how associations between stimuli, PFC neurons represent the current context, as well as the ‘rules’ ee
responses and outcomes can be learned in coordination that govern behaviour in that context [54,55]. Recent work |
between PFC and the BG. We then outlined how these comp- suggests that such contexts are not only represented in single |S
lementary systems may explain different aspects of behaviour. neurons, but in dynamic ‘ensembles’ of neurons that are defined 3
Furthermore, we have proposed that recurrent interactions by synchrony [56]. Such activity-dependent coupling would © =
between these systems may provide unique computational be highly dynamic, facilitating rapid association between
advantages, including producing increasingly complex and neurons representing stimuli and responses. The speed of
rich behaviours. However, it is important to note that these rep- these associations, coupled with the ease to re-form new associ-
resentations are learned in service of behaviour: to allow an ations, makes synchrony an ideal candidate mechanism of
organism to reliably acquire its goals. Using internalized infor- cognitive flexibility.
mation such as this to guide behaviour is often referred to as As detailed above, neurons in PFC and BG are also able to
‘top-down’ control. Here, we detail the anatomical and physio- acquire such task-relevant information quickly [55,57—59].
logical characteristics of PFC and BG that allow them to provide This may reflect the fact that PFC neurons are selective for
such top-down control. highly complex representations. A recent computational
First, both regions are anatomically well-positioned to model argued that PFC neurons have ‘mixed’ selectivity
influence neural activity throughout the brain. For example, that ‘randomly’ combine external and internal informations
PFC is closely integrated with a diverse set of brain regions, [60]. This results in high-dimensional, sparse, representations
sending and receiving projections from most of the cerebral throughout PFC. The computational advantage of such a
cortex. In addition to interacting with other cortical regions, representation is it provides the ability to learn a large
PFC receives and sends projections to several subcortical number of new associations (perhaps nearly unlimited),
regions, including the hippocampus, amygdala, cerebellum, including those that were not predicted by the previous
and most importantly for our model, the BG [35-40]. Different structure of the world. Indeed, such mixed selectivity is often
PFC subdivisions have distinct patterns of interconnections observed in PFC (e.g. [51]). Furthermore, coupling such high-
with other brain systems (e.g. lateral—sensory and motor dimensionality of representations in PFC [61] with the
cortex; orbital—limbic), however, all of these sub-regions are sustained response of PFC neurons results in an ‘evolution’