(figure 1, inset). The system thus operates in an exploration behavioural switches [24]. Moreover, monkey electrophysio-
mode that promotes actor learning by preventing switching logical and human neuroimaging studies indicate that the
again, while the actor remains unreliable. When the actor ACC is involved in monitoring when to switch from exploita-
becomes reliable, the system returns to the exploitation tion to exploration behaviours [35,36], whereas adjacent medial
mode, whereby switching away from the actor strategy (pre)supplementary motor regions are involved in inhibiting
(when it again becomes unreliable) and creating a new one established behavioural responses [37] and promoting explora-
may occur again. Note that the lower the initial actor tory responses [38]. More generally, the ACC is involved in
reliability is, the longer exploration will last: initially, the responding to surprising outcomes triggering behavioural
new actor less likely matches the new situation and, consist- switches [39] and in starting the execution of new tasks [40].
ently, more trials are required for the new actor to learn the Empirical data (review in [41]) further suggest that pre-
new external contingencies. frontal—striatal loop circuits involving the ACC and OFC
Under its intrinsic computational constraints (forward, [42] may subserve actor creation. The ACC may prevent the
factual and reactive inferences only), this model is an optimal striatum from filtering out non-actor strategies and allow
adaptive system in environments featuring both new and stored strategies to mix for forming new actors: the ventral
recurrent situations. The model especially exhibits three key striatum, which for every stored strategy then receives the
functional properties, which are consistent with empirical outcome-likelihood from the OFC, may return these likeli-
data. First, the model shows abrupt rather than gradual be- hoods to both the ACC and OFC; assuming that the ACC

havioural changes, when following variations in external further conveys these pieces of information to the premotor


(a)

Ty~ZT!- Tsp)
Py~ 2P!- Ti(sy)