conveying outcome likelihoods. Finally, the new actor selec- becomes the actor, and the latter is rejected from the buffer
tive model requires mixing of selective models, which and disbanded. Or the newly created actor becomes reliable,
may occur in the premotor cortex through LPC-to-premotor whereas the counterfactual strategies remain unreliable. The
projections conveying both outcome and cue likelihoods. former is then confirmed and stored in long-term memory

along with others. Exploration periods thus correspond to
hypothesis testing on strategy creation. Accordingly, counterfac-

4. Counterfactual inferences, hypothesis testing tual strategies are the former actors that have been reliably
assigned to an external situation that previously occurred.
and the frontopolar cortex When newly created actors are confirmed, however, the
In the above-described inferential system, the critical limit- number of strategies monitored in the buffer increases and
ation is that inferences remain factual: the decision to adjust possibly reaches its capacity limit. In that event, the theory
versus change the ongoing behavioural strategy, i.e. the assumes that the strategy used the least recently as actor is dis-
actor, bears upon the actor reliability only. Accordingly, the carded from the buffer. The rationale is that older situations are
theory assumes that the development of the frontopolar less frequent and less likely to reoccur in the short-run. The
cortex (IFPC) in humans implements a third inferential step buffer therefore keeps monitoring counterfactual strategies
overcoming this limitation: namely, inferring when to change which will more likely match the next external situation.
the current actor strategy from concurrently monitoring the The computations implementing this counterfactual infer-
reliability of multiple behavioural strategies. The human execu- ential system are essentially the same as those described
tive system thus develops counterfactual inferences bearing above. Reactive and proactive inferences are simply extended
upon alternative behavioural strategies that are not guiding to counterfactual strategies. The differences are as follows
ongoing behaviour. These counterfactual inferences enable the (figure 3, inset): first, absolute reliability is inferred for the
inference online not only of when to change the actor strategy, actor and counterfactual strategies, so that the default outcome-
but also which strategy may replace it. Ideally, counterfactual likelihood is now better estimated as the equiprobability of