too broad. Interesting social interactions often have multiple (D,D). Now (C,C) is better still, but the problem is that it is
Nash equilibria and require additional constraints for selecting unenforceable. Assuming no altruism or similar, each player
one equilibrium above the others. Virtual bargaining provides knows that, if they go through with their side of the bargain,
one way to do this, among many others (e.g. trembling hand the co-player may exploit them by Defecting—that is, the
and subgame perfect Nash equilibrium [12], pay-off and risk other player will be able to profit at their expense. But no
dominance [13], ‘proper equilibria’ [14], Mertens-stable equili- such exploitation is possible for (B,B). Each player knows that
brium [15], perfect Bayesian equilibrium [16] and sequential if they go through with their side of the bargain, playing B,
equilibria [17]). then no exploitation is possible; if the other plays D, then this

But as a theory of goal-directed social interaction, the Nash will be mutually damaging. If the other plays B or C, then
equilibrium has a second drawback: many social interactions the first player obtains a good pay-off in either case.
may not be Nash equilibria at all. There has been more than So, there is a possible, non-exploitable bargain that has better
a half-century discussion of the fact that people frequently pay-offs for both players than the Nash equilibrium. By playing
cooperate in PD [18-21]. This raises the possibility that B, a player deters the other from playing D. And hence the social
people are, for example, concerned not only about their own interaction works to the benefit of both players. As both players
pay-offs, but about the pay-off of the other player, and might know that this bargain is mutually advantageous, they can play
be guided by feelings of altruism or norms of fairness, although it without having to explicitly bargain.
there are also many other possible explanations [22-27]. Here, then, the virtual bargaining account diverges

Rather than add to this discussion here, though, we sharply from most accounts which assume the Nash equili-

focus on a different source of additional possible ‘virtual brium as a starting point; in this game, a good virtual


bargaining solution may not be a Nash equilibrium at all. (ii) The goodness of a feasible bargain is, following Nash’s | 4 |