exists [32]. Cargo transfer of endosome-derived vesicles and Developing hippocampal neurons were demonstrated to form
membrane-anchored proteins takes place. The mechanism transient nanotubes with distant astrocytes [107,111]. TNTs
involves a unidirectional vesicle transfer which is based on were found to mediate both transient calcium signals and
actin action [101]. It seems possible that membrane receptors depolarization from distant astrocytes to neurons within a
can move via TNTs from the plasma membrane of one cell to limited maturation period. This was associated with high
the plasma membrane of another cell [53]. Through such a expression of neuronal connexin 43. The TNTs may offer an
mechanism, one cell can acquire for a transient time period interesting mechanism for how astrocytes may give instruc-
the capability to recognize and transduce signals which tions for neuronal migration. It is of interest that calcium
otherwise would not be recognized. signalling in the developing neurons was absent when they
Thus, TNTs likely represent an interesting and significant were not electrically coupled with astrocytes. A model of cal-
type of WT in the CNS. Strong support exists for the view cium diffusion alone through TNTs was therefore not
that this WT mode of communication is indeed used by neur- supported. Instead, the findings indicated a local influx of cal-
ons and/or by the other cell types in the CNS [3,13]. In fact, cium ions into neurons through activated low-voltage calcium
blockade of TNTs by cytochalasin B, which inhibits both the channels which open at low depolarization thresholds [111]. It
rate of actin polymerization and the interaction of actin fila- may be that VT via ATP and glutamate released from astro-
ments in solution, inhibits intercellular transfer between cytes in development is not as effective in producing
neuronal cells [105]. However, studies are required to better depolarization and increasing neuronal calcium signalling
characterize not only the cell types that in vivo can use this via purinoceptors and NMDA receptors, respectively.

possible mode of WT but also the triggering mechanisms
for the formation of TNTs from the initiating cells and the sig-
nals allowing the TNT connection with the proper target cell.
Significant in vivo data, however, do exist. The first in vivo
experimental evidence of TNTs was found in bone-marrow-
derived MHC class II+ cells in the corneal stroma of green