
both in ESCs and neurons [32]. Second, gene bodies in the 5-hmC was first confirmed in ESCs and cerebellar Purkinje


neurons, the amount of 5-hmC in the brain is much higher in genome. Ramsahoye et al. [59] found that although the enzy- | 6 |

the hypothalamus, cerebral cortex and hippocampus [51]. matic activity of Dnmt3a is mostly biased towards CpG
The amount of 5-hmC in these brain regions is up to 0.7% methylation, Dnmt3a also has weak methylation activity a
of all cytosines, whereas 5-mC is 4% of all cytosines. Since towards the non-CpG context. Thus, it is likely that Dnmt3a s
5-hmC appears to be methylcytosine in bisulfite sequencing, generates non-CpG methylation, but it is still completely a
it is important to remember that one-sixth of ‘methylated unknown why neurons and ESCs have such a high amount = 2-
cytosines’ in the WGBS in previous studies of the mammalian of non-CpG methylation compared with other tissues. The 3
brain is in fact 5-hmC rather than 5-mC. Promoters with CpG function of non-CpG methylation is suggested to be repressive. Ss
islands are devoid of 5-hmC as well as 5-mC. Enhancers are It has also been suggested that inactive enhancers have higher =
the genomic annotation that have the highest amount of amounts of non-CpG methylation than other genomic regions. ‘S
5-hmC, regardless of their activity [52]. Indeed, Lomvardas et al. [60] also observed that inactive enhan- es
Recent studies showed that 5-hmC is the first step of the cers are enriched with non-CpG methylation, suggesting that —
Tet-TDG-mediated DNA demethylation pathway, which is non-CpG methylation in enhancers might also be important | =
followed by further oxidation to 5-fC and 5-caC and DNA in mammalian neurons. Guo et al. [61] showed that non-CpG yy
repair back to C. It is, however, still under debate why methylation can help nearby CpG methylation recruit 2
5-hmC levels are orders of magnitude higher than its oxidation methy]-binding proteins and suppress transcriptional activities &
products 5-fC and 5-caC, if 5-hmC is an intermediate to 5-fC in vivo. They showed that non-CpG methylation is blocked in a
and 5-caC. Moreover, 5-hmC distributions are tissue specific, the absence of Dnmt3a during early development, and thus w
and gene body 5-hmC shows a positive correlation with tran- certain genes become de-suppressed. Nd
scriptional activity in brain, which suggests a biological role =