function of CBP/p300 at enhancers may be to recruit NSCs expand their population during mid-to-late embry-
RNAPII together with p53, as activity-regulated RNAPII ogenesis by dividing symmetrically, while also increasing
binding to thousands of enhancers has been observed [50]. their cell-cycle length [90], raising the possibility that the
These facts taken together reinforce the idea that ncRNA is timing of the decision for neural differentiation depends not
involved in the formation of ternary structures between only on cell-intrinsic epigenetic mechanisms but also on the

enhancer and promoter sequences as described in figure 2. phase of the cell cycle. Recently, it has been shown that


human ESCs in early G1 phase can only initiate differentiation conversion of post-mitotic callosal neurons into corticofugal

into endoderm, whereas the ESCs in late G1 are restricted to neurons [101]. Nonetheless, there are no reports in which neur-
neuroectoderm differentiation [75]. This is supported by ons have been converted to glial cells. Collectively, these facts
cyclin D overexpression experiments showing that, in ESCs, support the notion that the robust epigenetic profile of neurons
neuroectoderm differentiation is specifically induced. Func- may underlie their extremely low capacity for cellular repro-
tional experiments reveal that the activity of Activin/Nodal gramming. What molecular mechanisms contribute to the
signalling during cell-cycle progression is controlled by cyclin robustness of the differentiated state, or the low differentiation
D proteins that activate CDK4/6 and lead to the phosphoryl- plasticity of neurons? One important clue is the fact that
ation of SMAD2 and SMAD3 in their linker region. This p93 inhibition efficiently reprogrammes neurons to iPSCs as
mechanism blocks SMAD2/3 translocation into the nucleus in described above [91]. Also in fibroblasts, an increase in the
late G1, thereby preventing endoderm specification and allow- cell proliferation rate by either inhibition of the p53/p21 path-
ing neuroectoderm specification. Together with epigenetic way or overexpression of LIN28 could accelerate conversion
regulation, intrinsic mechanisms for cell-cycle progression can to iPSCs [102]. Considering that knockdown of p53 helps re-
thus be used for the stochastic neural cell fate choices directed entry of post-mitotic neurons into the cell cycle during
by extracellular differentiation signals according to the timing the reprogramming to iPSCs [91], it is conceivable that the