neurodegeneration [128-130] potentially via several mechan- model wherein miRNAs arise randomly (and frequently) S
isms, including binding cellular proteins needed for health, within genomes: all that is needed is some minimal level of =
competing for dicer-dependent processing of miRNAs and transcription, and a stem-loop secondary structure that can ‘5
activating Toll receptors. be processed by drosha, dicer or other enzymes [137]. Such = ©
However, particularly in a post-mitotic cell type such as nascent miRNAs would be expected to be driven hapha- >
the mammalian neuron, which does not appear to support zardly by nearby transcriptional control elements and = =
transposition, TE transcripts could potentially acquire would tend to show expression at low levels and perhaps yy
benign regulatory functions of their own within the cyto- only in a few tissues. Nascent miRNAs that do not acquire 2
plasm. TE sequences are embedded in both introns and positive functions exhibit random sequence drift and are &
3’-UTRs of many mRNAs, where they serve as targets for cer- quickly lost in evolutionary time [137]. a
tain miRNAs [122,131], piRNAs and endo-siRNAs, and However, much of the data are compatible with the w
might also be targeted by TE-related transcripts. Li et al. opposite scenario: that certain ncRNAs show accelerated posi- |
[132] have recently reported that a broad sampling of tran- tive evolution, and in fact, may change so quickly that their = S
scripts from many TE families (including Alu and other relation to homologues in other species becomes obscured. 3
SINEs, LINEs and LTRs) are expressed in normal human Among protein-coding genes, this effect is best documented  &
brain and are tightly associated with TDP-43. This is compat- for genes involved in brain growth and synaptic function,
ible with a physiological role for these transcripts, and might and among ncRNAs, this is best documented for piRNAs
provide a mechanism for their transport to dendrites. [138]. Species-specific differences in piRNAs and other
To my knowledge, no one has examined whether any cyto- ncRNAs appear to contribute to the setting up of species
plasmic TE transcripts are induced following physiological barriers to reproduction [138]. Conversely, a mouse species-
levels of neuronal activity, or whether they show preferential specific dicer isoform has acquired regulatory activities in
transport to dendrites. However, in view of the Alu-related oocytes that are actually essential for reproduction [139].
family of transcripts already discussed, and in view of theoreti- The ncRNAs are quite diverse (miRNAs, repeat-derived
cal considerations (discussed in §11), it is worth examining L1, miRNAs and transcripts, hairpin endo-siRNAs, antisense
L2 and other families of TE-related transcripts to learn whether RNAs and piRNAs), yet they all demonstrate a general prin-