+c) sequences (residing within the precursor or host gene in cis,
conserved across species: or within other transcripts in trans) [140]. Often the com-
The basic protein machinery of synaptic transmission is plementarity remains functional in the face of a few base
highly conserved throughout evolution, with many synaptic mismatches. Often the sense and antisense sequences arise
genes being found even in sponges [133]. Processes of synap- from the same chromosomal locus (or from the same TE
tic development and neurotransmission are remarkably inserted into multiple loci) so that genetic changes in primary
similar from C. elegans and Drosophila to mouse and man. gene sequence that occur will affect both sense and antisense
By contrast, the individual ncRNAs associated with synapses sequences in parallel, thus preserving the complementarity.
tend to be non-conserved across species. In the case of These features may explain, in large part, why ncRNAs
miRNAs, we previously pointed out that the subset of differ so dramatically from protein-coding genes, both in
mouse hippocampus miRNAs that are significantly enriched terms of the usual indicators of functionality and in terms
in synaptic fractions tend to be evolutionarily new, with of evolutionary constraints.
many found only in mammals or only in rodents [30], in con- In fact, it can be argued that a complementarity-based
trast to non-enriched miRNAs that tend to be more broadly system works best when the sequences involved are other-
conserved and expressed in many tissues. How can we recon- wise totally arbitrary and self-contained, for then they will
cile this with the notion that they play essential roles in minimize off-target effects! This is one reason that I find it
synaptic plasticity? attractive to consider that TE transcripts and TE-derived
The species specificity of ncRNAs is not limited to small RNAs may comprise a primordial system of compu-
miRNAs, but affects the entire world of ncRNAs. For example, tational elements, of which miRNAs, endo-siRNAs and
none of the hairpin endo-siRNAs encoded within introns of piRNAs represent specializations. Using the term ‘compu-
synaptic genes were conserved between mouse and man [76] tational elements’ emphasizes not only that ncRNAs have
and, in general, intronic hairpins tend to be species specific biological functions, but that they respond to contextual, non-
[134]. Sense—antisense gene pairs show relatively little conser- linear and interactive influences that make the output more
vation between mouse and man [135]. Repeat-derived than a simple function of the input. To give just one example,
transcripts such as BC1, BC200, G22 and Alu-related repeats a given miRNA may be inhibitory, ineffective or actually