some additional effector(s) were involved. Given the striking While additional experiments will be necessary to prove that — 2
change in synaptic FasIII accumulation in miR-8 mutants miR-8 function at the m6/m7 NMJ can be fully accounted for 3
(figure 4d), we wondered whether the combined influence of by Nrg and FaslII, the nature of this early phenotype suggests S
Nrg and FaslII might explain the higher penetrance of the that miR-8 contributes to the accuracy or robustness of motor =
miR-8 mutant phenotype, even though elimination of FaslIII connectivity, consistent with the roles of many miRNAs in ‘S
alone is not sufficient to induce the defect. To test this possibility, fine-tuning of genetic circuits [64]. s
we genetically removed both FasIII and Nrg at the same time It is thought that a set of neuronal and muscle transcrip- >
and then quantified the m6/m7 innervation using anti-FasII tion factors determines the deployment of genes required to | =
staining. Interestingly, introduction of a FasIII null allele (fas- achieve accurate connectivity in the neuromuscular system [65], yy
1", which has no ISNb phenotype alone) into an nrg'/ although the precise relationship between the targeting receptors 2
nrg'* mutant background more than doubled the frequency of and the upstream factors that control their expression is just &
m6/m/7 innervation defects, as compared to embryos singly beginning to emerge. For example, the transcription factor Tey = ©
mutant for rg (figure 5e). The fact that the m6/m7 innervation has been proposed as a targeting factor in m12 via repression ee
phenotype in nrg™/nrg" fasiII“' fas“? —double-mutant of the repellent cell-surface protein Toll [66]. Because neither |
embryos matches the strength and penetrance of the defects the Nrg nor FasIII gene contains sites with homology to the |S
found in miR-8 homozygous nulls is consistent with a model miR-8 seed sequence complement, and because the levels of 3
where a combination of pre- and postsynaptic IgCAMs are these synaptic IgCAMs are decreased in miR-8 mutants, we 9
key downstream effectors of miR-8 for NMJ formation. believe that miR-8 controls Nrg and FaslII via some intermediate

regulatory component(s). While the transcription factors
upstream of FaslII have yet to be defined, genetic studies suggest
that neuronal Nrg expression falls under the negative regulation

4, D ISCussion of the homeobox protein Engrailed (En, [67]). When En is overex-
