our understanding of brain organization at the network level relevant hypothesis, should be taken into account. In addition,
is still in its infancy. This is in part due to the fast and wide translating theoretical concepts into practice is not always
methodological development of new analytical tools and the straightforward. Particularly in neuroscience, a wide-ranging
inevitably slower rate of absorption by the neuroscience com- knowledge and experience across several scientific areas is
munity, which needs to validate their physiological relevance required to perform proper data analysis and extract informa-
and practical reliability. Another limitation is that researchers tive graph-based neuromarkers that can be used to predict

developing methods (e.g. mathematicians, physicists and behaviour and/or disease [13]. Last, but not least, the


neurophysiological interpretation of the obtained results can tomography, define nodes in the measurement space (after | 3 |

present difficulties due to the fact that different methods, image reconstruction), whereas sensor-based modalities, such
with increasing level of conceptual abstraction, are applied as EEG, MEG or functional near infrared spectroscopy a
sequentially to the recorded brain signals and make direct (fNIRS), offer a choice between assigning nodes directly to s
explanation of the underlying neural phenomenon non-trivial. sensors or to reconstructed sources. a
In this scenario, we aim to provide a critical review on In voxel-based modalities, there are several approaches to = 2:
graph analysis of functional brain networks. Differently define brain nodes [18,19]; here, we only provide a brief over- 3
from previous reviews in the field, we extend our survey to view. The main choices facing the researcher are the spatial S
all the steps of the processing pipeline taking as input the scale most relevant for the analysis (single voxels versus =
acquired brain signals and giving as output the statistical voxel aggregates), and in the case of voxel aggregates the 2
description of the brain network (re)organization (figure 1). choice of how to combine voxels (parcellation based on |‘
At the same time we focus our review to functional brain net- prior anatomical knowledge, a data-driven approach or a >
works, being more susceptible to dynamic reorganization hybrid technique [20]). Using single voxels directly as brain | =
underlying cognitive/motor tasks or diseases, as compared nodes was the earliest approach for graph analysis [21,22]. yy