Interestingly, BLIMP1, PRDM14 and AP2y have distinct origin-specific manner [71]. Furthermore, methylation-
binding patterns relative to promoters. BLIMP1 is mainly dependent genes that are expressed specifically in the germ-
enriched at transcriptional start sites, whereas PRDM14 is line, such as Dazl, Ddx4 and Rhox genes, become activated
predominantly bound to enhancers (figure 4) [28,66]. These [72-74]. It is tempting to speculate that global DNA demethy-
two factors are thus likely to collaborate on the regulation lation in PGCs contributes to a switch in the enhancer usage to
of gene expression through distinct mechanisms. AP2y, on establish the germline-specific gene expression programme.
the other hand, appears to bridge this relationship by show- Several studies suggest a functional relationship of enhancers
ing bimodal enrichment, both on distal regulatory elements and DNA methylation, as enhancer activity inversely correlates
as well as on promoters. This binding pattern exhibited by with DNA methylation. Differentially methylated regions
these three essential factors underscores the importance of identified via the generation of DNA methylation maps using
regulating gene expression both at the level of enhancers as a number of adult mouse tissues were predominantly located
well as promoters when driving cellular commitment. In at putative enhancer elements [75]. Furthermore, active
fact, BLIMP! is mainly responsible for direct gene repression, enhancers marked with H3K4mel and H3K27ac in ES cells
with some notable exceptions, and collaborates in repressing show enrichment of 5-hydroxymethylation (5-hydroxy-
somatic genes with the other two factors. It thus seems likely methylcytosine; ShmC [76-78], an intermediate in the DNA
that the most efficient way of repressing gene expression is by demethylation pathway). Intriguingly, global DNA demethyla-
directly repressing promoter activity, whereas the activation tion in PGCs is driven in part by TET1 and TET2, which catalyse
of robust gene expression de novo is likely to require enhancer the conversion of 5mC to S5hmC, which is then removed via
engagement and activation. DNA replication-coupled dilution [14]. Thus, the erasure of
Interestingly, OCT4 along with SOX2 and KLF4 has been DNA methylation could potentially open up the opportunity
shown to exhibit pioneer factor function during somatic cell to activate a new set of enhancers.
reprogramming, where they co-bind a large set of DNAse-I Of note, at the time of global DNA demethylation,
inaccessible sites that are devoid of histone modifications PRMT5, an arginine methyltransferase, translocates from
[67]. Pioneer transcription factors have the ability to bind to the cytoplasm to the nucleus specifically in PGCs [79].
DNA sequences recruiting cofactors, causing chromatin PRMTS5 catalyses the methylation of H2A/H4R3mez2, but its