early EpiSCs in all culture conditions. For Mixl1-intermediate days of culture. Compared to the Mixl1-early EpiSCs, only a
EpiSCs, Foxa2*;Sox17* cells could be detected in EBs differen- few foregut endoderm markers could be detected in the
tiated under most combinations of Activin A and PI3K Mixl1-late EpiSC culture. Both Mixl1-intermediate and Mixl1-
inhibitor but not in Nodal-supplemented culture. For Mixl1- late EpiSCs responded poorly to Nodal in expressing foregut
late EBs, Foxa2‘;Sox17* cells were present in Activin A, endoderm markers.
Activin A + Ly (without BMP4) and Nodal-treated conditions. To test the differentiation potential of cells with DE and
Endoderm-like cells were, therefore, induced by Activin A in foregut endoderm characteristics, we developed a protocol
EpiSCs of all three categories but only in Mixl1-early cells in which EpiSCs were subjected to extended differentiation
and, at a much lower abundance, in Mix!1-late cells following culture for a further 2 days in media supplemented with var-
Nodal induction. To assess the efficiency of Activin A and ious combinations of FGF10, BMP4, retinoic acid (RA) and
Nodal induction of DE versus visceral endoderm-like cells, an inhibitor of Hedgehog signalling (cyclopamine, cyc),
the enrichment of the CXCR4-positive population [39,40] in following 4 days with Activin A and Ly (electronic sup-
the EBs was quantified by FACS analysis (figure 2a, electronic plementary material, figure S5a). Cells were grown as EBs
supplementary material, figure S2). CXCR4 is expressed in for the first 2 days, dissociated and subsequently grown in
embryonic germ layers, but not extraembryonic visceral endo- an adherent culture for the next 4 days. As an example, in
derm. Mixl1-early EpiSCs showed the greatest enrichment of the presence of FGF10 and cyc, Mixll-intermediate EpiSCs
CXCR4-positive cells, whereas the Mixll-intermediate and expressed foregut markers (Tbx1, Pyy, Hnflb, Hnf4a) and the
Mixl1-late EpiSCs responded modestly to induction by Activin lung and thyroid marker Nkx2.1, weakly expressed the
and Activin + Ly, and weakly to Nodal (figure 2a). intestine marker Cdx2 and downregulated the foregut pro-
The expression of other lineage markers in response to genitor marker Sox2 (electronic supplementary material,
the various growth factors was also examined (electronic figure S5b). Further extending the culture (day 6-9, electronic
supplementary material, figure S3). Mixl1-late and Mixl1- supplementary material, figure S5a) in medium containing
intermediate lines showed high levels of Sox1 expression in FGF10, RA and cyclopamine enhanced the expression of pan-
response to Activin A treatments, indicative of the presence creatic endoderm and endocrine precursors markers Pdx1,
of neuroectoderm progenitors in EBs derived from these Prox1 and Ngn3 (electronic supplementary material, figure