
Using modern analytical techniques pioneered by some of these figures varied between sites, fish species and also indi-

the authors featured in this Theme Issue, a range of pharma- viduals within species [45]. Such studies illustrate the
ceuticals, including synthetic hormones, anti-inflammatories uncertainties associated with predicting exposure and uptake
and antidepressants have recently been detected in soils, in ‘the real world’.

surface waters, sediments, groundwaters and in marine eco- In the terrestrial environment, pharmaceuticals can also be
systems [12,22,32]. A number of pharmaceuticals have been taken up into plants [36,46] or remain bound to the external sur-
shown to be persistent in the environment [22,35]. The faces of leaves following biosolids or waste water application,
anticonvulsant drug carbamazepine, for example, can persist thus potentially exposing herbivores to associated contami-
in soil unchanged for at least 40 days and be taken up into nants [47]. Predicting bioavailability of drugs in soils and also
crop plants, accumulating particularly into leaves [36]. Simi- sediments is complicated by the fact that many compounds
larly, the antidepressant fluoxetine (the active ingredient in are ionizable and those that form cations may become bound
Prozac) excreted by humans is only partially metabolized, to negatively charged clay particles [35,36]. Nevertheless,
incompletely removed by current wastewater treatment some pharmaceuticals might still be available to soil- or
plant (WWTP) processes, and exhibits minimal degradation sediment-ingesting organisms and could potentially accumu-
or transformation in sewage or soil over many months late in terrestrial and benthic food webs (reviewed by Shore
[35,37]. While such compounds truly are persistent, most et al. [14]). Consequently, wildlife across diverse ecosystems
human- and veterinary-use pharmaceuticals released to sur- are likely to be exposed to pharmaceuticals in the environment
face waters are regarded as ‘pseudo-persistent’ in that they either directly or indirectly. However, the extent of exposure
are used continuously and released to the environment, result- remains unknown for most taxa and ecosystems.

ing in constant exposures of organisms, even to relatively Following their uptake, many medical compounds are
degradable compounds [22]. metabolized to Phase I metabolites that can sometimes be