bioaccumulation or bioconcentration and resultant elevated where [4,13,21,22,24,25], nor do we review laboratory-based
exposure in higher wildlife is not well characterized, particu- exposures aimed at detecting specific compound-species
larly for terrestrial systems [11,12]. Risk assessments also focus effects. Instead, we focus on environmentally relevant field
on single pharmaceuticals, whereas wildlife will typically be exposure situations, primarily for birds and mammals, in
exposed to complex mixtures, and our understanding of how freshwater and particularly terrestrial habitats worldwide.

pharmaceuticals interact with each other and affect toxicity is

limited [13,14]. Finally, regulatory frameworks that monitor
and restrict pharmaceutical emissions to the environment are 2. Key exposure Sources and pathways

often absent or ineffectual in many developing countries [15] Concern over the release of pharmaceuticals to the environment
and, even when in place, there may be a need to upgrade treat- has, until recently, focused on freshwaters, reflecting the fact that
ment processes (at sewage treatment plants (STPs) for example) human medicines almost invariably end up in aquatic systems
to adequately curtail emissions of pharmaceuticals to the because of urinary and faecal excretion of prescription and rec-
environment [16,17]. reational drugs, and improper disposal of old medication [26].
Significant adverse effects in terrestrial and aquatic Pharmaceuticals can enter freshwater systems through a
organisms caused by pharmaceuticals have demonstrated number of pathways (figure 1), the principal routes being the
inadequacies in current risk assessment and regulatory pro- discharge of liquid waste (domestic sewage, hospital or indus-
cesses. Two of the most notable cases that have caused trial effluent) into aquatic habitats [16,27]. Research has tended
global concern are (i) the near extirpation of Gyps vulture to centre on municipal STPs [16,28,29], principally in Europe
populations in large parts of Asia following exposure to and North America, on hospitals [28,30] and on drug manufac-
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) [18-20] turing facilities [15,29,31] which emit less volume but more
and (ii) the feminization of wild male fish from exposure to concentrated effluent. Aquaculture has also attracted attention
synthetic oestrogen 17a-ethynyloestradiol (EE2), a common as a source of pharmaceutical inputs to freshwaters [32,33].