to less than 1% of the biomass in the previous 4 years. Fathead in size structure can follow reductions of planktivorous fish S
minnow showed elevated expression of vitellogenin, intersex (e.g. [28]). In addition, Chaoborus and zooplankton are =
and disruption of gonadal development, which ultimately important components of the diets of both fathead minnow ‘S
led to reproductive failure and loss of the 2002-2005 year and pearl dace in these and other systems [53,54]. While aver- - ‘S
classes [11]. The delayed decline in adult biomass (2004) is age rotifer biomass also increased starting in 2003, rotifers do 2
probably because the lifespan of fathead minnow is typically not constitute a major part of the diet of the fish species that © =
2 years [51]. Pearl dace from Lake 260 also displayed elevated decreased in Lake 260. Intraguild competition and predation yy
vitellogenin and disruption of testicular and ovarian develop- among omnivorous zooplankton predators including minnows, 2
ment, including intersex [12,13]. In association with these Chaoborus and cyclopoid copepods may lead to complex inter- &
changes, pearl dace biomass declined steadily through to actions. For example, the effect of decreased fish predation a
2004, when the biomass was only 24% of that observed in may have been partially offset by increases in Chaoborus preda- w
1999. However, interpretation of the cause of this decline is tion on other invertebrates. Declines in Tropocyclops, which feed |
complicated by the fact that pearl dace biomass also declined on rotifers [55,56], or changes in the behaviour of other invert-  S
in reference Lake 442. The relative abundance of slimy sculpin ebrate predators may also have affected rotifers and other small 3
in Lake 260 also declined sharply in 2002, and remained low taxa. However, these explanations remain speculative at this ©
until 2004, a trend that was not observed in the reference time. Because zooplankton and nutrient availability did not
system. While sculpin were not examined for vitellogenin or change substantially during the experiment, the absence of
gonadal effects, the timing of the decline was coincident responses in the phytoplankton and bacterial communities is
with that of YOY fathead minnow and suggests that it may not surprising. Manipulations of ELA lakes resulting in
also be a direct response to EE2 exposure. major changes in fish abundance and/or community compo-
There was also some evidence of direct effects of EE2 on sition have often not resulted in strong trophic cascades and
individuals of the larger bodied fishes in Lake 260, but not responses of lower trophic levels were often delayed for several
on their populations. Condition of male lake trout and of years (e.g. [33,57]).
male and female white sucker declined during EE2 additions, Several of the fishes in Lake 260 are known to feed on
and the timing was concurrent with increases in plasma con- littoral invertebrates, and declines in fish abundance may