not only for the authorization of pharmaceuticals but also for
several other areas of environmental risk management (e.g.
water pollution control). Better quality data on the fate and
effects of pharmaceutical substances have been collected for

5. Conclusion and outlook

both human and veterinary pharmaceuticals since the ERA The occurrence in and potential effects on aquatic and terres-
guidelines came into force; however, these datasets are, in gen- trial organisms of human and veterinary pharmaceuticals are
eral, not publicly available. Thus, ERA data submitted in a relatively new issues. Nevertheless, quite a number of studies
dossier can only be used by the EU agencies during the have been published during the past few decades that indi-
review of the ERAs for the specific pharmaceutical product. cate numerous effects on organisms and the presence of
This fact, among others, leads to a repetitive testing of pharma- pharmaceuticals in several environmental compartments on
ceutical substances for different pharmaceutical products. This a global scale. It has now been recognized that pharmaceuti-
approach is expensive and very time consuming, and is not cals in the environment is a topic of global relevance, and not
environmentally friendly. During the past few years, an just an issue for industrialized countries. The majority of
increasing number of authorities (including the UBA) and people, regardless of their background, i.e. general public,
scientists have requested that the ERA data be made publicly industrial, research or regulatory, do not want to have bio-
available. The EMA has started to publish the fate and effects logically active pharmaceuticals in the environment and
endpoints of human and veterinary pharmaceuticals in thus potentially in their drinking water. Therefore the quan-
Environmental Public Assessment Reports (EPARs/PARs) of tity of pharmaceuticals in the environment has to be
products, but the quality and quantity of environmental data minimized by all strategies available. Prospective approaches
within the EPARs still need to be improved. Because long- such as ERAs play an important role in minimizing prob-

term ERA data are not yet accessible to scientists or water lems before pharmaceuticals enter the environment. These