IA is mathematically expressed as screen. Finally, even investigations in multi-species tests
1” show a similar pattern: in tests with sewage sludge bacteria,
E(Cmix) = 1 — Il [1 — E(ci)], (2.2) the toxicity of a binary mixture of the two quinolone antibiotics
isl oxolinic acid and flumequine followed the predictions made by
where E(Cmix) denotes the mixture effect at a concentration CA [45], and the effects of a five-compound mixture of the
Cmix = 2.1 ¢i. E(c;) describes the effects that the individual protein-biosynthesis-inhibiting antibiotics chlortetracycline,
components would cause if applied singly at the concentration rifampicin, fusidic acid, chloramphenicol and streptomycin fol-
at which they are present in the mixture. lowed the CA prediction in studies with natural planktonic
Both concepts share a number of important assumptions bacterial communities [46].
[36,37]. First and foremost, both are using information on Fewer studies with mixtures of dissimilar pharmaceuti-
the individual components and are hence only applicable cals that explored the usefulness of IA have been published.
to mixtures whose composition is known. Both concepts The results from a 14-compound mixture demonstrated that
assume that each individual component is toxic if applied IA, in fact, provided a good prediction of the experimentally
singly, although perhaps only at higher concentrations. That observed toxicity, whereas CA slightly overestimated the
is, inert compounds do not add to the toxicity of a mixture. observed mixture toxicity [40]. An algal toxicity study wit!
Furthermore, both concepts predict that the mixture toxicity the five dissimilar pharmaceuticals propranolol, sulfamethox-
is higher than the toxicity of the individual pharmaceuticals. azole, ethinyloestradiol (EE2), diclofenac and ibuprofen, and
Qualitatively, new effects of the mixture are not considered the herbicide diuron resulted in a mixture toxicity that fol-
by either concept. Finally, CA as well as IA build on the lowed IA expectations in the lower tested concentration
notion that the components of a mixture do not interact, range and CA in the region of higher concentrations [47].
neither chemically nor during their toxicokinetic and This was explained by the fact that four of the components
toxicodynamic phases. (sulfamethoxazole, EE2, diclofenac, ibuprofen) were classi-
Although the notion that the total effect of a mixture simply fied as acting primarily as baseline toxicants in algae and
equals the arithmetic sum of the effects of its components is hence sharing an identical mode of action in this organ-
intuitively appealing and is used even in modern publications ism—although they belong to different chemical groups