Generally, wastewater undergoes some level of treatment the size of the human population of a country and the acces-
which can be variably effective in removing APIs. However, sibility to healthcare. Some of the world’s most populous
discharges of high concentrations of APIs in the environment countries are located in growing economies in the continents
may occur due to lack or inefficiency of treatment facilities of Asia, Africa and South America (electronic supplementary
or inappropriate disposal practices. A range of APIs have material, table S1). Here, the contrast is the greatest between
been detected in different environmental compartments over low- to middle- and high-income nations. Nearly 78% of the
the years [19-22]. Some of these compounds (e.g. carbamaze- total global population is located in Asia and Africa, whereas
pine, fluoxetine, fluroquinolones and tetracycline antibiotics) only about 16% is present in Europe and North America.
may persist in the environment [23]. Consequently, increasing Indeed, nearly 40% of the global population lives in
attention is being placed globally on the impacts of APIs that three Asian countries, namely China, India and Indonesia
are present in the environment. (electronic supplementary material, table S1).

Despite the fact that a vast majority of the human popu- On the basis of concentration of human population, one
lation live in Asia and Africa, the majority of research would assume that the overall demand for APIs would be
(75%) and most of the regulatory developments on APIs higher in Asia and consequently expect a greater environ-
in the environment have focused on the North American mental risk from a greater presence of APIs. The population
and European situations [20]. A significant amount of work pressure (or lack of it) does not, however, directly translate
has also been done in some Asian countries (e.g. China, into environmental impact as there are other factors that
Japan and South Korea). However, much less information is can moderate it. For example, the population density of Aus-
available for other regions of the world such as Oceania, tralia is low but most of the population is congregated in
Africa, South America and parts of Asia. In addition to the cities, leading to the concentration of waste streams. Simi-
huge population pressure in these regions, there has been a larly, 13 of the 100 most populated urban agglomerations in
gradual shift in the global API manufacturing sector over the world are located in South America (eight in Brazil)
recent years due to outsourcing of drug manufacturing to with more than 3.5 million people in each of these. The
lower income countries [24]. degree of urbanization (electronic supplementary material,