action of astrocytes was observed in the hippocampus [89]. All interneurons, astrocytes modulate the excitability of these
in all, these results raise a number of questions on the ultimate hippocampal interneurons [100]. A Ca*'-dependent release
effects of astrocytic signalling in local networks. Do glutama- of glutamate has also been reported to activate presynaptic
tergic SICs and GABAergic SOCs derive from the same kainate receptors at GABAergic synapses onto inhibitory inter-
activated astrocytes or do they come from different ones? As neurons, ultimately decreasing inhibitory transmission in the
to the GABA and glutamate release, Le Meur et al. [89] suggest hippocampus [101]. An opposing effect was described for
that different astrocytes were probably involved because sim- another gliotransmitter, such as ATP, that increased inhibitory
ultaneous SICs and SOCs were extremely rare. It is possible, synaptic transmission in the hippocampus through activation
however, that the same astrocyte may release both GABA of P2Y1 receptors in interneurons [102].

and glutamate, but from distinct releasing sites in contact Although our understanding of how GABAergic inter-
with different synapses. The mechanism of astrocytic GABA neurons and astrocytes communicate in the neuronal network
release is unclear. The fact that both in ventro-basal thalamus is largely undefined, these few studies hint at a richness of differ-
and hippocampal slices SOCs were increased in number upon ent mechanisms by which astrocytes can modulate GABAergic
hypo-osmotic challenge suggests a release mechanism sensitive inhibition in local circuits (figure 2).

to cell volume [88,89].
A different form of GABA release has been described in
astrocytes from cerebellar slices [94,95]. In this region, GABA

appears to be released by astrocytes through the bestrophin-1 5. Open questions and conclusion
channel, a large channel that may also allow glutamate efflux A large variety of neuronal signals, including the neurotrans-
[96,97]. This astrocytic GABA release may contribute to mitter GABA, are now recognized to trigger intracellular

GABA tonic inhibition of neurons that is particularly relevant Ca’** transients in astrocytes. Astrocytes are proposed to act