strated recently that D-serine is the endogenous co-agonist of match the domains defined by glutamate spillover (see
synaptic NMDARs, but that glycine gates the extrasynaptic section ‘Defining the extrasynaptic space’).
NMDARs that mediate the tonic current and contribute to Even more unclear is the origin of glycine available to
the response induced by exogenous application of NMDA extrasynaptic NMDARs. In structures where glycinergic
[19]. SICs were not investigated in this study and whether innervation is abundant, such as in the retina and the
NMDARs that mediate SICs are also gated by glycine, or spinal cord, glycine that serves as an endogenous co-agonist
by p-serine, is still unknown. This is potentially of great at NMDARs originates from glycinergic terminals [70,71].
interest, because there is no actual demonstration that SICs In those preparations, it was demonstrated that glycine
are caused by the release of glutamate. Instead, SICs could released at inhibitory synapses spills over and diffuses to
be generated by the release of D-serine or glycine by astro- bind to remote NMDARs. However, in the adult hippo-
cytes, on NMDARs that face suprathreshold levels of campus, even though the existence of extrasynaptic glycine
ambient glutamate. This hypothesis, which has never been receptors (GlyRs) has been documented [72,73], the presence
considered, fits with the body of data already available on of glycinergic terminals has never been established. In fact,
SICs (but see below considerations about glycine concen- the inhibitory transmission is entirely abolished by GABA
trations in the extracellular space) and would explain why receptor antagonists in that structure [74], and the expression
blocking glutamate transporters does not necessarily increase of functional GlyRs is thought to stop after birth [74—76]. Yet,
SIC amplitude or frequency, as if SIC-mediating NMDARs microdialysis has revealed that the amounts of free glycine in
were already facing saturating levels of glutamate [50]. vivo are as high as 10 »M in the hippocampus [77,78]. In vivo,
Interestingly, the difference in the co-agonist used by a major source of extracellular glycine in the CNS could be
NMDARs at synaptic and extrasynaptic sites appears primar- the blood flow. Indeed, blood contains approximately
ily to be based on the fact that p-serine is released at synapses 200 4M of glycine [79] and glycine is able to cross the endo-
and that the activity of glial glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) pre- thelial wall of capillaries by mean of glycine transporters

vents glycine from accessing the synaptic cleft [19]. Thus, the [80,81]. In slices, however, blood vessels are mostly emptied
