reefs. For example, in southwest Western Australia, loss of ‘dead clade walking’ scenario [104]. Whether preserving suc w
‘complex’ Acropora and Turbinaria species (figure 4c) with lineages are effective from a functional and evolutionary stand- 2
branching and laminar morphologies could reduce the com- point is an open question. Finally, metrics such as PSV, whicl Ss
plex three-dimensional architecture of reefs. This has negative emphasize phylogenetic disparity among species, may be 8
consequences for the abundance, richness and functional useful predictors of the future structural and functional diver-  S
diversity of reef inhabitants, including fish [88—90] and invert- sity of coral reefs, although this needs to be further tested witl
ebrates [91-93]. Conversely, the preferential loss of ‘robust’ appropriate trait data.
corals as projected for Pacific Costa Rica and Panama In summary, using two different metrics and comparing
(figure 4a) may result in surviving assemblages dominated projected and random extinctions, we have identified key
by Acropora valida, Gardineroseris planulata, Pavona and Porites ecoregions where the ED of corals may be most at ris
spp., which are more susceptible to outbreaks of bleaching, dis- from anthropogenic impacts. Regardless of the metric
ease and the crown-of-thorns seastar [20,34,36,94,95]. These used, our results suggest that these areas are not necessarily
results suggest that extinction risk examined in the context of ecoregions with the highest species richness. In fact, the
phylogenetic disparity and associated changes in shape projected loss of ED in the Coral Triangle, a well-known
of the coral phylogeny can provide useful clues to the future marine biodiversity hotspot, is lower than that of most
ecological functioning of reefs. other regions. While much remains to be done to better
The putative connection between changes in PSV and func- understand how phylogenetic metrics like those used here
tional attributes of the reef system suggests the potential for an relate to ecological and functional diversity of corals, our
extinction debt scenario [96] in areas with high excess loss of results clearly indicate that many species-poor areas are of
PSV even where PD declines are expected to be low (table 2). potential conservation interest. We remain optimistic that
In these areas, the initial loss of species could lead to substantial regional analyses such as these will help better allocate con-
changes in habitat complexity and ecosystem function, which servation resources that are needed to safeguard the future
in turn could affect the long-term viability of the survivors. of coral reefs.

This hypothesis cannot currently be tested since we lack the