(270 ml min“! kg~* newborn weight) is required [20]. is due to increasing fetal size given that the absolute flows
and the fraction of total cardiac output directed to the utero-
placental circulation continue to rise [13]. Third, the principal

(0) Importance of uterine artery blood flow factors responsible for raising UtA blood flow differ in early
Prior to the advent of Doppler Ultrasound technology, the versus late gestation, with a linear increase in diameter being
anatomical complexity of the uterine circulation and ethical more important early and a rising flow velocity prevailing
considerations limited the ability to measure human UtA thereafter [24,25]. This together with the early onset of maternal
blood flow. Table 1 summarizes the still comparatively few vascular responses to pregnancy suggests that vasodilatory
such studies. All measured UtA blood flow as the product and/or angiogenic effects of pregnancy hormones are likely
of vessel cross-sectional area (ar*, where r is the UtA responsible for increasing UtA diameter and that trophoblast-
radius) and time-averaged flow velocity throughout the car- mediated changes in downstream vascular resistance play a
diac cycle. Such measurements are aided by the fact that major role in the progressive rise in flow velocity.
when imaged transabdominally, the UtA appears to cross Variation in UtA blood flow has been related to fetal growth
over the external iliac vessels prior to branching into uterine in studies at low altitude. In serial studies, Konje showed that
and cervical segments, thus providing a means for localizing women delivering IUGR babies had 12% and 37% lower UtA
the same portion in each study. Also the UtA is pulled blood flows at weeks 20 and 38, respectively, and that lower
upwards as the uterus expands and therefore velocity can flows were due primarily to smaller UtA diameters from
be assessed at the requisite low angle of insonation. However, week 20 onward [29]. Jeffreys observed strong correlations
as is apparent in table 1, there is considerable variability between third trimester UtA blood flow and birth or placental
among studies, which is due primarily to variation in flow weights that were also primarily due to relationships with
velocity rather than diameter (coefficients of variation = UtA diameter [30]. UtA Doppler indices indicative of increased
0.32 and 0.19, respectively, for the four studies with week- uteroplacental vascular resistance have led to the widespread
36 data).? Variation among studies is likely due to differences assertion that uteroplacental blood flow is low and a contributor
in study design and technique. For example, transvaginal to the IUGR frequently observed in PE/GH pregnancies, but to