The ROI for antibacterials is below that of many other vate value’ (i.e. the value returned to the drug developer), which
therapy areas while the risks, both scientific and commercial, ranged from negative, — $4.5 million (—£2.8 million) for HABP/
are higher. The R&D challenges have been described earlier VABP (which means the company loses money) to positive,
in this paper. However, many therapy areas have scientifi- +$37.4 million (+£23.4 million) for CABP. In essence, the devel-
cally challenging and expensive R&D programmes, so why oper is getting a negative or very low return for the delivered
are antibacterials different? benefit to society. The models also demonstrated a wide range
The business model for antibacterials is broken: the for the estimates, largely due to unpredictable rates of resistance,
increasingly expensive challenges of discovery and develop- unpredictable success in development and the variable time it
ment are not balanced by the opportunity to make takes to progress from discovery to a launched product; these
attractive returns (figure 2b). In addition, there is little incen- uncertainties further reduce the attractiveness for investors.
tive to invest in the development of new antibacterials to Why are the returns low? Firstly (and rightly), new anti-
address future potential unmet needs that would increase bacterial medicines are reserved so as to preserve their
our preparedness to address AMR (figure 2c). These facts effectiveness in infections caused by resistant pathogens,
are increasingly recognized by stakeholders, including those thus limiting the volume of use. Secondly, the cost of antibac-
in government, public health and academia as well as the terials, even those for serious hospital infections, is low
industry. As stated in the recent report prepared by Eastern compared with many new medicines in other therapy areas.
Research Group, Inc. (ERG), under contract to the Assistant The market for antibacterials is dominated by low price gener-
Secretary for Planning and Evaluation which is part of the ics, which remain effective for many patients. For example, the
US Health and Human Services [25, p. vii]: most commonly used hospital anti-MRSA intravenous antibac-

terial is vancomycin, widely priced at under £35 a day in the
” . . 7 . . UK. Prices of new antibacterials are often benchmarked against
social burden associated with resistant infections, some of the . . .
| . a P . these older generic antibacterials, even when the new agents
large companies have been exiting the markets for antibacterial