
lasting quality’. In particular, the authors state that, ‘art human societies, and to what extent we can identify mechan- a
which caters to the masses... is of little aesthetic value and isms underlying those functions in non-human animals. This s
will not be considered’. [50, p. 1]. But if we ever hope to under- approach leads us to recognize at least four subcomponents a
stand the shared biological basis of music, it is precisely popular of music, as described below. 2.
music style (e.g. dance music) that will be most relevant, along 3
with behaviours such as a mother singing lullabies in order to =
soothe her infant: one of the functions of song for which the (a) Song: CO plex, learned vocalizations =
empirical data is most convincing [51,52]. An elitist attitude Let us start with song, one of the few aspects of human musi- “2
can thus lead us to overlook aspects of musicality that are cen- cality that virtually all commentators agree is universally ©
trally relevant biologically. found in all human cultures [2,60-62]. Perhaps the most = -5

Equally important are the cognitive abilities of self-avowed obvious fact about human song is that it varies considerably =
‘non-musicians’. One of the most fundamental findings in between cultures, and much less so within cultures (e.g. [3]). =
the last two decades of music cognition research is that That is, each culture has both a shared, open-ended repertoire -
untrained listeners, including those who claim they know of specific songs, and culturally specific styles or idioms that 2
nothing about music, exhibit sophisticated perceptual and encompass multiple songs. This situation is only possible S
cognitive abilities implying rich implicit understanding of when songs can be learned—so a child or newcomer can w
musical principles (cf. [53—55]). In many cases such capabil- absorb the song repertoire of its community—and new = &
ities are already present in infants and children as well songs can be generated within the style. This aspect of ©
[12,13,56]. Any scientific exploration of the biological basis of human song therefore entails the capacity for complex vocal s
human musicality should therefore take a broad view of musi- learning, where novel sounds can be internalized and repro- = =
cality, across ages and over multiple levels of skill or training. duced (cf. Merker et al. [33]). Having identified this particular
This is not to say that musical expertise should be ignored as ‘design feature’ of human singing, we can now ask which
an explanatory factor: contrasts between highly skilled musi- non-human species share this feature (cf. [26]). As already