recently within the primate lineage. The question, then, is humans is seen early in infancy. For example, mothers sing
whether beat-based timing was a music-specific adaptation lullabies to soothe infants and play songs to arouse them
or whether it emerged for other reasons. A comparison of and interact playfully [16], and these have differential conse-
tonal pitch space with beat-based timing and entrainment in quences for infants [151]. Emotional responses to music may

this regard might be useful in addressing this question. be specific to humans and appear to be mediated by


specialized physiological mechanisms. In humans, emotional and production of music became more and more elaborate | 10 |

responses to music are mediated by the dopamine system, through competition as a display of the highest fitness. This
such that music modulates activation in reward centres in view is not without challenges. A full discussion is beyond a
the brain [146]. More physiological research is needed, but the scope of this paper, but the fact that both men and s
the apparent indifference of other primates to music [33] women produce music contrasts with the vast majority of a
and very early responses in human infants suggest basic such displays in other species, many of which are specific to .
genetically driven differences in the physiology of neural males [162]. It is possible, however, that music is an outlier
pathways underlying the human emotional response to on this dimension, and both male and female humans
music and that of other primates. However, this question engage in mate selection. Perhaps a more serious challenge is 2.
needs to be informed by more data across species. to explain why music is used across a range of situations that “2
With respect to social affiliation, after people move together seemingly have little to do with mating, such as work songs, ©
in synchrony, they rate each other as more likeable, and they are parental songs for infants and children’s play songs. ~
more likely to cooperate than after moving asynchronously Another proposal is that participating in joint music =
[152-156]. Because of its predictable beat, music provides an making increased group cohesion, cooperation and, there- =
excellent scaffold for synchronized movement with others. fore, the survival of individuals who were able to engage in -
Indeed, music and dance are intimately connected, and music (e.g. [8,14,17,42]). Consistent with this view is evidence 2