There is currently no good account of how humans evolved inevitable local perturbations and drift requires mechanisms — -s
the capacity for vocal production learning. As Nottebohm of phase correction as well as period adjustment [65]. Both =
noted many years ago: ‘you might find it much harder to are well documented for human sensorimotor synchrony =
explain this first step, vocal learning, than the latter acquisition [67]. A mechanism equipped with these features latches on -
of language’ [63, p. 645]. Nottebohm’s warning, we submit, to the regular beat and stays on it as long as that beat stays 2
applies to music no less than to language. One possibility in reasonably steady and lies within the operational tempo S
this regard is that we acquired vocal learning, like some of range of the entrainment mechanism. In humans that range w
the songbirds, as a means to sustain cultural traditions of centres on 2 Hz, which is also the human locomotor tempo =
learned song (see ‘Constraint no. 1’). Another might be that [70,73]. Entrainment precision is dependent on predictability,  &
vocal learning built upon comparable abilities for manual so variance in period length has to be small, typically exhibit- &
imitative learning and variation that were already developed, ing a standard deviation of a few (2-5) percentage points in = &
or developing. However conceived, our possession of vocal human tapping performance [66,67].
production learning is a fact, and one that any theory of the ori- Entrainment between two or more motoric time series
gins of music leaves unaccounted for at its peril. by such a mechanism establishes an unequivocal, unique

and rather precise correspondence between the individual
events making up the simultaneously unfolding sequences.
That correspondence is either one to one or related by small
whole integer ratios for harmonically related tempos [74]. It

5. Constraint no. 4: entrainment

The constraints considered so far apply both to human music is from this unique correspondence between the individual
(song) and to language (speech), and therefore cannot help us events of separate time series that asynchronies and their
home in on evolutionary factors unique to music as such. variability are calculated as a measure of synchronization