consecutive chain of neural events. (c) A duration/serial-order tuning curve for a cell that is part of the dynamically activated ensemble on top. Dotted horizontal

line links the tuning curve of the cell with the neural chain of events in (6). (Adapted from Merchant et al. [92,108-110].)

spiking activity and LFPs is not always obvious across the cen- features [115], which include the duration of the intervals
tral nervous system, because the latter is a complex signal that and the serial order of movements produced rhythmically.
depends on the following factors: the input activity of an area These signals must be integrated as a population code, where
in terms of population excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic the cells can vote in favour of their preferred interval/serial
potentials; the regional processing of the microcircuit sur- order to generate a neural ‘tag’. Hence, the temporal and
rounding the recording electrode; the cytoarchitecture of the sequential information is multiplexed in a cell population
studied area; and the temporally synchronous fluctuations of signal across the mCBGT that works as the notes of a musical
the membrane potential in large neuronal aggregates [97]. Con- score in order to define the duration of the produced interval
sequently, the fact that interval tuning is ubiquitous across and its position in the learned SCT sequence [111].
areas and neural signals during the SCT underlines the role Interestingly, the multiplexed signal for duration and serial
of this population signal in encoding tempo during beat order is quite dynamic. Using encoding and decoding algor-
synchronization and probably during beat perception too. ithms in a time-varying fashion, it was found that SMA
Beat perception and synchronization not only have a cell populations represent the temporal and sequential struc-
predictive timing component, but also are immersed in ture of periodic movements by activating small ensembles of
a sequence of sensory and motor events. In fact, the regular interconnected neurons that encode information in rapid suc-
and repeated cycles of sound and movement during beat cession, so that the pattern of active tuned neurons changes
synchronization can be fully described by their sequential dramatically within each interval (figure 3b, top) [110].
and temporal information. The neurophysiological recordings The progressive activation of different ensembles generates a
in SMA underscored the importance of sequential encoding neural ‘wave’ that represents the complete sequence and dur-
during the SCT. A large population of cells in this area ation of produced intervals during an isochronic tapping task
showed response selectivity to the sequential organization of such as the SCT [110]. This potential anatomofunctional