prefrontal cortical function, a region heavily implicated in suicidal ideation and depression. Other studies have shown
executive control [10]. that the effect of loneliness in middle childhood on suicidality
Although health is generally robust in late childhood and in adolescence is explained, in part, by depression [99], once
early adolescence, perceived health is nevertheless poorer in again suggesting that the effects of loneliness accrue and
lonely than non-lonely children of this age. Harris et al. [27] that indirect effects (e.g. through depression) represent mech-
found that the high but reducing loneliness group reported anisms for the health and fitness impact of social inclusion
poorer general health at age 11 than the consistently low and acceptance.
loneliness group. In a cross-sectional study of loneliness Evidence that executive functioning is affected by
and victimization (e.g. bullying) in 419 Norwegian children social factors in this age group is provided by a study of
in grades 1-10 (aged 7-16 years), more frequent loneliness eating behaviour [47]. In a study of 59 adolescent males
was significantly associated with somatic symptoms (e.g. and females aged 12-14 years, an experimental manipulation
stomach ache, headache), sadness and anxiety [28], even (i.e. Cyberball) was used to simulate either social ostracism or
after adjusting for victimization experiences. In fact, victimi- inclusion, after which individuals completed a computer task
zation was associated with symptoms only if accompanied that offered points exchangeable for (unhealthy) snack food
by the experience of loneliness, suggesting that social cogni- or conversation/social time with a same-sex peer confederate.

tions, including a perceived threat of social isolation, are The number of times participants had to press the mouse to


earn points increased over the course of the task, and the num-
bers of presses were used to assess participants’ motivation for
eating or socializing. Participants were then given an opportu-
nity to eat snack food. Overweight participants in the ostracism
condition were more motivated to eat (more mouse button
presses for food) and ate a greater quantity of food than over-