The different solid angles involved in equation (2.2) are
illustrated in figure 1b.

The scattering processes toward the observer and the extinc-
tion by aerosols (scattering and absorption) and molecules


(a)

Figure 1. Modelling geometry and most important contributions to the flux perceived by an observer. MRR, maximum reflection radius which is equivalent to the
average distance between obstacles; MSR, maximum radius for second order of scattering computation.

The case of the propagation of light pollution is, in fact, very and constant lamp properties is considered. Ground reflectance
different from the well-studied propagation of sunlight because was made uniform over the modelling domain. The ground
the sources of light pollution are spread on a large surface in elevation was set to zero for most of the grid points, except for a
comparison with the distance from the observer. The importance 2000m high three-dimensional Gaussian-shaped mountain
of the second order of scattering in that case may be understood located 30 km eastward from the city centre. The full width half
by the fact that the first scattering dome of light acts as an maximum used for the Gaussian function was 10 km. The city
extended source for the second scattering process, and thus its has a small slope. The westernmost pixel of the city is elevated
reduction as a function of the distance is less steep when com- by only 1m, while the elevation is gradually increasing to a
pared with point-like sources. In addition to the explicit height of 164 m at the easternmost pixel. This elevation change
treatment of the second order of scattering, the main advantage occurs over a distance of 20 km (equivalent to a mean slope of
of Illumina is its gridded based concept, allowing for change to approx. 0.8%). The spatial resolution used for this study is 1 km
the light flux power, the spectrum, the LOP, the lamp height, per pixel, and the domain covers a surface of 301 x 301 km, centred
the ground reflectance and the topography for each pixel inde- on the city. Light flux inside the city is set to 1000 W per pixel for