ject. Given that the automated identification system does not duration)), and transect identity was specified as a random effect =
distinguish bat passes (as conventionally defined as a continuous to allow for non-independence of sections within transects. The = “S_
run of pulses not separated by a time gap of more than 1 s [87]), amount of activity was investigated similarly but used a Poisson 3
we here consider a file to be the equivalent of a pass. Our previous error structure and a log-link, and the standard errors were cor- 3
work indicates that multiple passes of the same species in relatively rected to account for over-dispersion by adding a random =
low activity areas (away from roosts and swarming areas) occurs in variable with a distinct level for each observation in the dataset [89]. x
approximately 4% of files and that the nightly estimates of bat Prior to fitting the models, we explored the correlations between S
activity obtained from ‘files’ and ‘bat passes’ are not significantly potential predictor variables. The variables ‘urban’ and ‘habitat’ e
different. The main constraint of using automated identification were highly correlated—both included a measure of built environ-  “°
is that where two bats of different species are present in the same ment (Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient p= —0.831). =
file, only a single classification is given. Some under-recording of ‘Urban’ was therefore selected for inclusion in subsequent models =
species diversity is therefore possible. However, given the exten- as this variable had the greatest influence on the Akaike information =
sive sampling frame used in the project, together with the fact criterion (AIC) value. In addition, because of the relatively high a
that the finding of multiple species within a file was rare among number of potential predictors with multiple levels in relation to =
the pipistrelle data checked manually, it is unlikely that such the numbers of degrees of freedom, we conducted an initial screen- 3
under-recording will have materially altered the results. All files ing and included only those variables that showed some association cs)
containing Nyctalus spp., E. serotinus and P. nathusii calls, together with the outcomes (using a relaxed inclusion criterion of p < 0.1). x
with all those that were not allocated a species identification, were Road type was therefore excluded. Model selection then used a SS
manually checked following the procedures previously described backwards manual process until the minimum adequate model =
for the other acoustic analyses. was obtained (the random effects were retained in all models as Ss

they were part of the study design). First-order interactions between &
lighting and other fixed effects were considered, but other inter-
actions were not used due to sample size constraints. Model
comparisons were based on inspection of AIC values, and tests of