

addition, there may be impacts on navigation. The afterglow a magnetic compass which was subsequently used for orien- | 10 |

from sunset is used for orientation after roost emergence in tation during a homing experiment [109]. Given the recent
E. fuscus [96], and sky glow reduces the visibility of sunset. increases in polarized light pollution, due to reflectance from a
Good lighting design can help to reduce sky glow, by shiny surfaces such as glass and solar panels, this area s
restricting the upward spillage of light (though some should be a priority for research. a
bounce from reflective surfaces such as roads and waterbo- The potential implications of light pollution for the conser- 2
dies is inevitable). However, even with downward-facing vation of bats are considerable, particularly for many of our = S
lights, the glare from street lights, and even from car head- rarer, specialist bats. Our own research shows that even =
lights, is visible in the horizontal plane over a distance of common species formerly considered to use street lighting =
many kilometres. This issue is exacerbated where the lights may in fact show unexpected avoidance, depending on the ‘=
are in elevated positions such as hillsides. At least two conse- extent of vegetation cover. For bats such as N. leisleri, which
quences are possible. First, the lights may signal the general in this study demonstrated a preference for lit areas of roadside, — -s
unsuitability of an area to bats (or possibly act as an attractant it is important to assess the risk of retinal damage through sus- =
for large fast-flying species such as N. leisleri), leading to tained exposure to short-wavelength light. The cumulative =
altered habitat use over a large spatial scale. Second, the effects of lighting must therefore be considered alongside -
high contrast between lights and the surrounding dark land- those of other current threats such as habitat loss, mortality 2
scape might make it difficult or impossible for animals to see at wind farms and agricultural intensification, and mitigated S
adjacent features used for foraging or roosting such as hedge- for appropriately. Lighting technology is evolving rapidly, w
rows, woodlands, buildings or lakes. The rod cells in the and as well as presenting threats—in the form of more intense ©
mammalian eye operate best at low light intensities, and and cheaper lighting—it also offers opportunities. These range ©
over-stimulation, caused by viewing a bright light, results from reducing the absolute amount of light released into the ©
in the rods becoming unresponsive for periods of more environment, through ‘smart’ lighting controls, to altering