extensively [44-46] and is most likely related to perceived white—do attract moths [30,32]. The attraction may have
predation risk [44,47]. It is widely known that activity of noc- severe fitness consequences: moths attracted into the vicinity
turnal rodents is suppressed by light [48,49], but the of lights may be predated by bats hunting around the
information on how mice react to (experimental) artificial lampposts, or may not be able to deposit eggs on the local
light in the field is limited. De Molenaar et al. [50] did not vegetation, or be affected in other life-history stages [58].
find any effect of experimental light at night on mice, but The Heath traps used attract moths only from a very close
Bird et al. [51] found clear effects at close range of two differ- range [41,42], so we do not expect that moths attracted
ent spectra on foraging activity of beach mice in an from further away level out differences in catches between
experimental set-up for two different light types. Suppression dark control transects and transects exposed to experimental
of activity at night by light pulses has been shown in outdoor light. An explanation could be that although the experimental
enclosures [52,53]. A possible attenuated response of wood light affects individual moths, the effect of light at the popu-
mice to red light compared with white and green may be lation level is very limited and possibly only emerges after
attributable to the fact that mouse eyes are less sensitive to several years.

long wavelengths [54,55], and the mice thus may experience
red light as less intense and therefore evade the red-coloured
light to a lesser extent than green and white. At present, it is
unclear whether the reduction in activity is caused by a direct
behavioural response to light, or whether there is a density
effect, with a reduced abundance underneath the lampposts.

(e) Summary

In summary, we do observe direct effects on a number of
species, and see emerging long-term effects. These vary