terms of energy generation. One of the surprising obser-

5. Relating systems to cells vations made with PET was that blood flow increases much
At the cellular level, spontaneous activity is often discussed in more than oxygen consumption during task-induced
terms of variations in neuronal excitability (e.g. [72,75,82,83]) increases in brain activity [104,105]. The practical significance
mediated by spontaneous variations in membrane voltage of this observation paved the way for fMRI [32]. However,
known as up and down states (UDS). The question is whether overlooked by many in discussions of BOLD signal biology
a similar mechanism underlies the spontaneous fluctuations have been the task-induced increases in aerobic glycolysis
in the fMRI BOLD signal that gives us resting state maps of (ie. glucose metabolized by the brain in excess of that
functional connectivity (figure 1). needed for oxidative phosphorylation despite the presence
On the basis of this information, we originally thought it of adequate oxygen; figure 3) that accompany changes in
reasonable to ask whether spontaneous fluctuations in the blood flow. These unexpected task-induced increases in
fMRI BOLD signal were, in fact, related to UDS (see Sup- aerobic glycolysis actually reflect an increase rather than a
plementary Note 3 in [100]). We concluded at the time that de novo appearance of aerobic glycolysis.
it was unlikely to be the case for two reasons. First, the fre- Indeed, aerobic glycolysis is present in the normal adult
quency content of the BOLD signal demonstrates a power human brain at rest, accounting for 12-15% of the glucose
spectrum that exhibits power law scaling (for a review, see metabolized [109,110]. Hence it constitutes an important com-
[101]), whereas UDS have a narrow frequency range that ponent of intrinsic activity metabolism [106]. Furthermore,
centres around 0.8 Hz. And, second, UDS and their associ- aerobic glycolysis is not distributed uniformly (figure 3a).
ated LFPs travel across the cortex with latencies of a second Rather, it exhibits elevated levels in the DMN and adjacent
or less (figure 2b, [84]), whereas {MRI BOLD resting state net- areas of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and low levels in
works appear spatially stationary. Recent advances in our the cerebellum and the medial temporal lobes [106].
analysis of spontaneous fluctuations in the fMRI BOLD Taking advantage of the non-uniform distribution of aerobic
signal [85], however, suggest a rethinking of that view. glycolysis, we compared the regional variance in the resting
We find that the resting state fMRI BOLD signal contains state fMRI BOLD signal (figure 1b) with the regional levels of