et al. [49] that human cells display reduced apoptotic function [53]. As seen in other articles in this issue, mathematical mod-
relative to chimpanzee cells; although apoptosis was investi- elling around the evolutionary concepts of Peto’s paradox is
gated in relationship to neuronal development, the same important to consider in the field of comparative oncology
authors hypothesized in an earlier publication [50] that the when devising hypotheses to test in the laboratory.
selection of decreased programmed cell death in human Perhaps one of the best examples of the promise of com-
brains may have led to increased cognition over chimpanzees parative oncology for improving health is described by
with a trade-off of increased cancer risk due to decreased Schiffman & Breen [16] in their comprehensive review of
apoptosis of mutated cells. canine cancer. On average, and driven by purebred dogs,
More insight into human cancer development can be found the rate of cancer development is estimated to be over 10
in the California sea lion (Zalophus californianus), as described by times higher in dogs than in humans. As Schiffman &
Browning ef al. [51]. Naturally occurring cancers in mammals in Breen discuss, much of this increase in cancer susceptibility
the wild, such as the California sea lion, more closely resemble is due to the numerous genetic bottlenecks created during
human tumours than laboratory-induced tumours owing to a the phenotypic selection of purebred traits. In fact, specific
more similar overlap of genetic and environmental interactions. breeds remain at extraordinarily high rates for development
Browning et al. [51] report on the very high prevalence of uro- of specific cancer subtypes (e.g. Bernese mountain dogs and
genital carcinoma in the California sea lion population, histiocytic sarcoma, golden retrievers and lymphomas, Scot-
including aetiology related to genotype, persistent organic pol- tish terriers and urothelial carcinoma, and boxers and
lutants, and even a cancer-associated herpesvirus. As discussed, glioblastomas). Owing to the overlap between regions in
the California sea lions are a useful organism for understand- the canine and human genomes, the study of germline

ing the origins of similar anatomical human cancers that result cancer risk and subsequent somatic tumour genomics in


dogs proves to be an unparalleled resource for understanding
universal concepts of cancer development. Schiffman & Breen