occurred at pressures as low as 5 MPa. In addition, the ampli- studied at several tens of megapascal in living matter. Only
tude of the excitatory postsynaptic potential in ganglia of this kind of pressure application allows a calculation of acti-
Aplysia californica was reduced to one-half at 10 MPa. These vation volumes, although these volumes are apparent and
results clearly point to a very pressure-sensitive presynaptic have to be considered as molecular rearrangements.
event involved in vesicle fusion. The patch-clamp technique [22] makes it possible to
The strong dependence of Cay1.2 currents on pressure, record capacitance changes accompanying fusion of single
together with the effects described above for other ion currents, vesicles with the cell membrane. This is attained by measur-
cannot explain the various severe physiological effects ing the time course of the total impedance of the cell, which
observed in whole organisms under pressure. One possible includes the imaginary part. Towards this aim, the complex
explanation is that other voltage-gated Ca** channels in the impedance is measured by imposing a small sinusoidal vol-
presynaptic terminal, particularly those directly involved in tage to the cell while measuring the elicited current. Using
presynaptic Ca”* entry (P/Q, N or R type), are affected differ- a lock-in amplifier, very small changes in phase and ampli-
ently. In fact, the opposite behaviour with pressure observed in tude between the voltage excitation and the current
Cay1.2 and Cay3.2 indicate that different calcium channel response can be detected at low noise levels [11]. Changes
types react very differently to pressure. Therefore, the release in the real part of the impedance correspond to changes in
processes of extra-somatic and somatic vesicle fusion are differ- the equivalent resistance and shifts in phase correspond to
ent in terms of activation volumes. Additionally, binding of changes in capacitance. By designing a special high-pressure

Ca** to molecules regulating the vesicle-release and the recording chamber (figure 2), patch-clamp experiments have


been performed at pressures up to 60 MPa, which corre-
sponds to 592 times normal atmospheric pressure or to the
pressure experienced at ~5900m under the surface of the
ocean. The high-pressure chamber consists of a patch-pipette