microelectrode in patients undergoing implantation of deep compared with L-DOPA-treated patients not compulsively
brain stimulation electrodes in the subthalamic nucleus and taking dopaminergic drugs [89]. The sensitized ventral striatal
internal globus pallidus. According to studies in experimental DA neurotransmission induced by L-DOPA in these patients
models, synapses of internal pallidus and substantia nigra correlates with self-reported compulsive drug ‘wanting’ but
pars reticolata in patients with less severe LIDs underwent not ‘liking’ and is coupled with an increased psychomotor acti-
greater depotentiation following low-frequency stimulation vation. This clinical finding clearly links sensitization of ventral
than in patients with more severe dyskinesia. This demon- striatum to compulsive drug use in PD patients.
stration of impaired depotentiation in basal ganglia output Although the synaptic and/or neuronal mechanism
nuclei in PD patients with dyskinesia is an important validation mediating reversal learning and compulsive drug use in the
of the animal models of LIDs. ventral striatum has not been fully investigated, we can hypoth-

esize that changes in synaptic plasticity might account for this
behavioural process. In fact, medium spiny neurons of the ven-
tral striatum express both LTD and LTP with some similarities
with the features of these forms of synaptic plasticity in the

5. Ventral striatum

A brain area to be investigated to understand the cognitive dorsal striatum [90]. Moreover, it has been reported that
effects of L-DOPA in PD patients is the ventral striatum drugs of abuse such as cocaine might induce long-lasting
(nucleus accumbens). This structure plays an important role changes at excitatory synapses in the nucleus accumbens and
in the cognitive processing of motivation, pleasure, reward, ventral tegmental area owing to activation of the mechanisms
and reinforcement learning in physiological conditions [82]. that underlie LTP and LTD in these structures [91,92]. Thus, it
The ventral striatum is also extensively involved in the is possible that also L-DOPA, acting in this brain area, might
neural mechanisms of conditions [83]. Moreover, it has affect motivated behaviour with mechanisms similar to those