10s
Figure 5. Stimulation of a Retzius neuron synchronizes the electrical activity of multiple neurons. (a) Intracellular stimulation with 20 Hz trains was carried out

through an intracellular electrode (yellow) inserted into one of the Retzius neurons. Multiunit electrical activity was collected through suction electrodes from one
connective nerve (green) and two nerve roots (red and blue). (b) Before one of the Retzius neurons was stimulated the electrical recordings contained non-correlated
spikes produced by different neurons, as inferred from the varying unit sizes. (c) Twenty-five minutes after stimulation of the Retzius neuron with 20 Hz trains the
electrical activity displayed a bursting pattern with multiunit synchronization.

exo/endocytosis cycle can be followed for hours in living swimming in leeches that have been deprived of endogenous
neurons during their trip back to the perikarion. Electron micro- serotonin upon injection of 5, 7-dihydroxitriptamine [59].
graphs also show that the contents of multivesicular bodies Moreover, intracellular stimulation of Retzius neurons with
become degraded. The multivesicular bodies release their con- long trains of impulses increases the concentration of seroto-
tents upon arrival at the perikarion. This material is apparently nin in the blood stream and produces fictive swimming [60].
re-used for the formation of new electrodense vesicles [2]. In the experiments presented here, stimulation of Retzius

neurons with trains of impulses at 20 Hz produced a delayed
. . and long-lasting synchronization of the electrical activity of
10. Where does serotonin go after being multiple neurons, a8 recorded with extracellular viecticches
released? from the nerve roots and connective nerves (figure 5). In five
ganglia tested, this synchronization was not locked to the
stimulation trains, but appeared gradually over the 20-30
min that followed stimulation. The bursting activity appeared
with an average frequency of 9.3+ 1.2 cycles per second,
being consistent with the crawling pattern obtained in semi-
intact preparations [61]. This synchronization continued 2h