and ‘real world performance’ in retinal implant users have photoswitches [7] and, as described above, any increase in
relied on discrete white objects on a black background (e.g. kinetics is likely to come at a cost to sensitivity.
[8,17,53]) (figure 4). Slow dynamics do not simply reduce the ability to pro-
One way of reducing the perceptual consequences of cess rapidly moving objects. Rather, they have the potential
comet trails might be to carry out initial image processing to lead to motion streaks (similar to the blur seen in a
to enhance contrast and edges (e.g. ‘zero-crossing’ algor- moving cursor using a sluggish monitor) and can also
ithms), to minimize the number of stimulated electrodes. reduce the contrast of moving objects [4]. This streaking is
Alternatively, it is possible that these perceptual effects can induced by all forms of retinal motion, including those
be reduced by incorporating them into the encoding model, induced by eye (or camera) movements. Figure 5 shows a
such that the visual region encoded by an electrode is rep- simulation of the expected perceptual effects of sluggish
resented by its ‘comet’ rather than by the region of visual photokinetics, using the dynamics of the small molecule
space corresponding to position of the electrode on the retinal photoswitch LiGluR as an example [7]. The image of figure
surface. However, even if the phosphenes elicited by each 5b (identical to figure 1a) was in fact taken from a movie. In
electrode were accurately represented, creating small discrete figure 5c, we show that same image frame after filtering the
phosphenes (such as spots or lines) would remain impossible, movie using the temporal dynamics of LiGluR-MAG0460.
even with a very high-resolution array. For example, in Stationary objects in the scene are almost unaffected. How-
figure 2c,e, it is highly ambiguous which and how many ever, the sluggish temporal dynamics causes the scooting
electrodes along the fibre pathway are being stimulated. child to, rather dramatically, almost completely disappear.
A third possibility is developing more complex encoding (As can be seen in the original image, the tipped-over scooter
models that include anodic (suppressive) stimulation on elec- on the doorway is actually a different scooter from the one
trodes on the same axon pathway but distal to the optic the child is riding.) Original and filtered movies are included
nerve. Thus, to create a punctate phosphene under the elec- in the electronic supplementary material.
trode of figure 2a, one would anodically stimulate electrodes In contrast to the ‘axon-comets’ described above, which
lying above the ganglion cells represented by red circles. This have a fixed location on the retina, the direction and extent
technique differs from ‘current shaping’, in which a combi- of motion streaks due to sluggish dynamics depend on the