(c)

0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Pp (correct)

Figure 2. (a) Somatotopic organization of primary somatosensory cortex with the hand region highlighted (adapted from [9]). (b) Combination of skin locations at
which pokes were delivered as well as receptive fields of electrodes through which stimulation was delivered. The dotted lines link conditions that were paired in a
trial. As can be seen, each electrode replaced a poke; that is, the receptive field of each stimulated electrode corresponded to one of the poke locations. (c) Per-
formance on mechanical and hybrid trials. Each dot represents a condition, bars represent the mean performance (adapted from [10]).

anthropomorphic robotic limbs that reproduce much of the brain—-machine interfaces—i.e. neuroprostheses that are
function of a native human arm [1]. The second is the devel- under brain control and provide sensory feedback [20]. In
opment and refinement of algorithms that decode intended fact, not only could animals discriminate ICMS pulse trains
movements from the neuronal activity measured in motor that varied in frequency, but they could also distinguish
areas of the brain. Together, these innovations make it poss- ICMS that was delivered to different neuronal populations
ible for a human patient to move a robotic arm by thought [21]. An important commonality between the studies men-
alone [2,3]. Because these bionic arms can move in most of tioned above is that the ICMS was not designed to evoke
the ways that a biological one can, to control the bionic naturalistic patterns of neuronal activation. Rather, the idea
arms requires somatosensation for the same reasons that con- was to create a systematic mapping between sensory events
trolling a native one does: visual feedback is a poor substitute and ICMS such that the animal learned to use them to guide
for its somatosensory counterpart when it comes to using its behaviour.
hands to manipulate objects. Furthermore, somatosensation Another approach to eliciting artificial percepts, and the
is required for embodiment and allows for affective com- one that we will be exploring in depth here, consists in
munication. The importance of touch in everyday life leveraging what is known about how the brain encodes
spurred efforts to develop ways to restore it artificially. somatosensory information, and attempting to reproduce the