somatotopic organization: the population of neurons that following trial (a so-called hybrid trial), we might poke the
respond to the little finger is always medial and posterior middle fingertip then electrically stimulate through an
to the population of neurons that respond to the ring index fingertip electrode; we hoped that the second stimulus
finger, which in turn is medial and posterior to the popu- would be experienced as a virtual poke on the index finger-
lation of neurons that respond to the middle finger, etc. tip. On that trial, then, the correct answer was ‘right’.
(figure 2a). This organization is consistent across four com- Importantly, mechanical trials were interleaved with hybrid
plete body maps in S1, one in each of its modules (areas 3a, trials, and a variety of skin locations and electrodes were
3b, 1 and 2). Thus, when the index fingertip comes into con- used in each experimental block. Thus, the animal could
tact with an object, a specific population of neurons becomes not learn to associate sensations with responses. It could
activated. When the thumb makes contact with an object, a only do the task based on the perceived location of pokes
nearby, largely non-overlapping population of neurons and virtual pokes.
becomes activated. One might hypothesize, then, that contact We found that the animal performed both the mechanical
location is encoded spatially in S1: the location of the acti- and hybrid tasks well above chance (figure 2c). In fact, its per-
vated neuronal population will determine the location of formance on hybrid trials was nearly as good as that on
the evoked percept. Indeed, that is what Penfield found mechanical trials when the ICMS was delivered to area 3b.
when stimulating the surface of the brain. The question, Furthermore, the animal’s performance was almost at asymp-
though, is whether artificial percepts could be sufficiently totic levels on the very first day that hybrid trials were
and repeatably localized for this principle to be used to introduced, further demonstrating that it was performing
convey information about contact location in a neuroprosth- the task based on the location of virtual pokes rather than
esis. Indeed, as discussed above, surface stimulation of S1 by learning arbitrary stimulus—response pairings. These
causes very diffuse sensations, probably owing to the fact experiments led to the conclusion that ICMS of S1 through
that it excites diffuse populations of neurons. The develop- individual penetrating electrodes results in highly localized
ment of invasive neural interfaces opened the possibility, tactile percepts. From a scientific standpoint, this result
then, that smaller populations of neurons could be confirms the hypothesis that contact location is encoded
stimulated, leading to more localized percepts. spatially in S1; that is, perceived location is determined by