could vary within any range of body masses. More refined fitting of empirical cells, which determines metabolic rate. This model predicts 2
data suggests a curved rather than a linear relation between InB’ and InM. that the larger the animal, the sparser is the capillary density ~
(Online version in colour.) in tissues. The larger inter-capillary distance is thought to we
cause decreased delivery of nutrients and a steeper oxygen ©
gradient from blood vessels, causing decreased respiration ©
support the claims of Peto’s paradox. Of the 616 deceased and oxidative phosphorylation, and culminating in dimin- &
elephants in this database (http://www.elephant.se), 18 ished specific metabolic rates (figure 3a). Intriguingly, this >
(approx. 3%) are documented to be associated with cancer; theoretical framework resulted in a 3/4 power function
however, these numbers do not provide a lifetime rate of relation between M and B. This theory does not account for
cancers. Nonetheless, these data suggest that elephants do the variation in the power function (2/3 to 1) and assumes
not often die because of cancers, compared with 12.5% of a cell-independent cause for the power relation based
human deaths attributable to cancer among all causes. Natu- solely on nutrient delivery that depends on the fractal
ral murine deaths with aging have been documented for a geometry of the circulatory system. In fact, a closer examina-
group of over 2000 animals, of which about 50% succumbed tion of the extant data reveals a curvature of the relation
to cancer by 800 days of age [45]. These observations appear between logB and logM, which is not strictly linear and
to support but do not prove the general contention of does not fit the WBE model [53]. Modifications of the WBE
Peto’s paradox. model, however, could improve the theoretical model fit
If one were to assume that it is true that larger animals with empirical data. This work suggests that the general con-
have relatively lower rates of cancer burden compared with cept of nutrient resource distribution could provide the
smaller mammals, could metabolic rates that scale with mechanistic underpinning for the scaling of metabolic rates
body size be associated with the propensity for tumorigen- with body mass.
esis? The correlation of animal body size with basal Although the WBE theoretical framework appears
metabolic rates has been recognized for many decades, start- compelling and fits the observed power law function of
ing with the observations of Max Klieber in the 1930s which B= M*, the evidence for alterations in capillary density as
document a relationship between animal body mass and the a function of animal body size is not well documented.