Figure 2. Age-related alterations in immunoglobulin repertoire within subclasses. Light grey, young (n = 6, 21-45 years) and dark grey/black, old (n = 8, 65-87
years) donors. (a) Age-related change in the relative proportions of IgA1 and IgA2 sequences and in the relative proportions of IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 sequences within
(D27* and CD27~ memory subsets. (b) Frequency of GHV usage within IgG1&3 and IgG2 cells from young and old donors. (c) Frequency of individual GHV gene
usage within IgG1&3 cells from young and old donors. (d) Frequency of /GHD usage in 1gG1&3 and IgG2 cells from young and old donors. (e) Correlation of /GHJ4
(squares) and /GHJ6 (triangles) gene usage with age in IgG1&3 (left) and IgG2 (right) cells. (fF) Average number of negative amino acids, the theoretical pl, GRAVY
index and aliphatic index from 1gG1&3 and IgG2 cells in young and old donors. (g) Frequency of JGH/ usage within IgA cells from young and old donors. (h) Age-
related changes in the gene usage of individual /GHV and IGHD genes in IgA cells. (i) Correlation of the average number of positive amino acids with age from IgA
cells. *p < 0.05 by Mann-Whitney U test, bars are s.e.m. Spearman’s correlations were calculated where stated.

Not all aspects of the repertoire are differentially altered IgA also shows a trend towards increasing IGHJ6 with
between the different IgG subclasses. Despite the differential age, although this is less marked than in the IgG repertoire
change in CDR-H3 characteristics, the gene segments that and occurs at the expense of IGHJ3 rather than IGH]J4
form a large part of this region seem to change with age in (figure 2). Despite the fact that there are no significant differ-
a similar fashion across all IgG genes. Analysis of IGHD ences in IGHV or IGHD family usage, IgA does show small
and IGHJ usage in the old showed similar increases in variations with age in individual gene usage. IGHV3—11
IGHD6 and IGHJ6, with a decrease in IGHJ4 (figure 2d,e). and IGHD6-6 are seen to increase with age whereas
Additionally, the distinctive properties of the CDR-H3 IGHV3-15, IGHV3-72, IGHV3—-9 and IGHD2-15 decrease
regions seem to be altered with age. There is no longer a sig- (figure 2h). In additional analysis of the IgA CDR-H3
nificant difference between IgG2 from CD27" or CD27~ cells region identified an age-related decrease in the occurrence
in the old, when looking at the GRAVY and aliphatic index, of positive amino acids (figure 2/).

which was the most distinctive characteristic of IgG2
CD27™ cells in the young. Additionally in the young, IgG2
for both cells types had a lower average number of negative
