because of some repertoire-related quality. The most obvious others appear (figure 2f), and clearly the selective forces ‘5
quality would be autoreactivity, given that this group of acting to determine the use of particular IGHD/IGH] combin- ‘©
cells is increased in autoimmune conditions and in ageing ations are changed with age across many types of memory. 2
where there is also a correlation with increased autoreactive In summary, there are some major differences in repertoire = =
antibodies [29]. between different cell types, and between different classes and S

It is interesting that some of the most significant differences subclasses of antibody. It is important to bear this in mind in i
between types of cells that are seen in the young group are not repertoire studies, as averaging effects could mean that import- 2
apparent in the old group. Apart from a slight change in the ant information may be missed in a study of mixed S
proportion of IgA1 versus IgA2 use in the older group, all populations. The old individuals lose some of these repertoire w
the changes are in the IgG subclasses. There is greater use of distinctions; this likely reflects a difference in the selective  &
IgG2 than IgG1 and IgG3 in the old, and the IgG1/3 genes forces acting on the older repertoire. Antigen history between 5
that do exist have an IGHV gene family use that looks more different individuals will always vary, but the fact that a s
like the IgG2 family. In general, there seems to be a skewing number of older individuals show the same change in reper-
towards the IgG2/IgM memory-type repertoire, which is toire implies a more intrinsic effect of something other than
thought to arise mainly as a result of T-independent activation. antigen history.

This would perhaps fit with the known decrease in T cell num-
bers with age, reducing the amount of T cell help available for

Ethics. Written consent was obtained in accordance with the Declar-
T-dependent activation. However, it is difficult to reconcile the

ation of Helsinki after approval from the Guy’s Hospital Research
