netics and both toxicity and tumour response [96]. It is not models that can be used to predict clearance in humans 2
yet clear if pharmacokinetic-based dosing improves outcome from animals (and vice versa). There are several excellent S
in companion animals, but several studies in humans have reviews highlighting numerous interspecies differences in w
demonstrated beneficial effects both in terms of reducing tox- drug pharmacokinetics, with an emphasis on drug develop- 2
icity and improving disease-free intervals for various ment and the use of preclinical models [108-110]. Contrary ©
chemotherapy drugs and protocols [97-102]. In a phase II to pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, as the study of s
study of metastatic colorectal cancer, both efficacy and toler- the drug dose and kinetics in relation to clinical effects, is =
ability of pharmacokinetic-adjusted fluorouracil as part of a often redefined simply as ‘what the drug does to the body’.
multidrug protocol were higher than BSA dosing [103]. An Pharmacodynamic differences across species are often
earlier phase III study comparing pharmacokinetically reported as differences in toxicity profiles for a specific
adjusted fluorouracil to conventional dosing in metastatic col- drug in question. Quite prominently lacking in the veterinary
orectal cancer patients demonstrated that personalized dosing literature is information on pharmacogenomic differences
improved the response rate, decreased severe toxicity and led across species, in spite of the fact that the field of pharmaco-
to a trend in improved survival [102]. Importantly, the mean genomics has erupted as a major area of advancement in
fluorouracil dose was higher in the phase III trial with humans. Pharmacogenomics, or the study of the role genetics
personalized dosing, which was also the group with decreased plays in drug response, offers a host of additional reasons
occurrence of severe toxicity [102]. As quality-of-life measures for altered responses to drugs such as those used in che-
are important when considering any chemotherapy regimen, motherapy and an_ integrative systems pharmacology
efforts to improve outcome while decreasing toxicity are approach including pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics
paramount to advancing cancer care. and pharmacogenomics is now proposed as an_ ideal
Despite efforts to investigate drug exposure in companion method to approach drug regimen design [80,81,111].
animals and the assumptions made to define the relationship 6-Mercaptopurine (6-MP) is a core purine antimetabolite
between chemotherapy drug exposure and effect, conflicting chemotherapy drug in maintenance protocols in childhood
results exist in the veterinary literature. In canine lymphoma, acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. 6-MP is inactive and under-
one study showed that dogs that developed grade III or IV goes activation to form 6-thioguanine (6-TG), which exerts