
transferred into an almost exclusively commercial market, is at best disrespectful and at worst jeopardizes the | 3 |

causing a market value collapse of 40% in just 24 months.” basic premise of a ‘fair trial’. We must be both bold
The House of Commons Select Committee on Science and and brave about exposing and recognizing baseless a
Technology launched an inquiry into the possible long-term ‘4junk’ science and cowboy practitioners. s
effects of the FSS closure and produced two highly critical (2) We must be able to present our science ina manner thatis = =
reports.® In late 2014, a National Audit Office briefing* was not only accurate and robust but both understandable and 8.
equally critical of the management of forensic science pro- coherent for all—including lawyers, judges and the gen- “S
vision in England and Wales and expressed serious concern eral public. These players may last have encountered =
for its future health. These reports served to consolidate frontline science in their school years and may indeed =
mounting fears that forensic science is failing and if we have studiously avoided contact with it since that time— ‘2
remain inactive, then we should prepare ourselves for miscar- except perhaps what is read in fictional accounts and = ‘©
riages of justice and not just a national but a global crisis in watched in the media. We cannot expect a lay audience = 5
confidence and capability. to appreciate the nuances of our discipline nor expect =
In just the first three months of 2015, we have seen criti- them to have the confidence to be critical and challenging =
cism of the scientific validity of low copy number DNA® of our reasoning. We need to be clear and honest -
and the mathematical software used to de-convolute DNA professional science teachers and communicators. 2
mixtures in both the USA® and Australia®. The validity of “
conclusions drawn by the FBI on hair evidence has These two concepts are inherently reliant on a symbiotic we
been heavily criticized’ and the scientific validity of ballistics relationship between science and its scientists and the law and = 2
has been challenged®*. However, in this ruling there also lurks its lawyers, and perhaps especially in an adversarial system ©
an astonishing judicial compliance accepting that the status quo we need to abide by standards that recognize what is agreed s
of poor, if not absent scientific underpinning for some areas of and uncontroversial fact and what is open for debate and = =
forensic evidence is acceptable. Forensic science is rightly being interrogation within the context of the case. We must be in a