Figure 8. Total sequence entropy partitioned into its various elementary contributions for the two individuals. The bottom three horizontal bars in each stack
display the partitioning of the entropy of the probability distribution of recombination scenarios. Because multiple scenarios can generate the same sequence,
the nucleotide sequence entropy of the sequences directly produced by recombination is smaller than the recombination scenario entropy. Out of those, productivity
of the sequence further restricts the diversity by constraining frame and forbidding stop codons appearing, as depicted in the smaller bar above. Finally, as seen in
the topmost bar, the initial selection process itself significantly reduces the diversity of those productive sequences. It is worth noticing that while the initial diversity
of both individuals is different, consistent with their different CDR3 length distributions, the reduction effect of the selection is quite similar, keeping the same
difference in entropy.

pressures related to affinity maturation in memory B cells B-cell repertoires are much more diverse than T-cell reper-
[19]. Second, our approach overcomes the degeneracy of the toires, as measured by entropy, even before hypermutations
recombination problem (whereby the same sequence may occur. In addition, the selection factors acting on the CDR3
be generated by many different recombination events) by amino acid sequence of BCRs are quite different from those
using a fully probabilistic approach. reported for T-cell receptors, consistent with the fact that
The generation of BCR and T-cell receptor results from their cognate epitopes are very different in nature.
similar processes, involving common enzymes and pathways. Although there is a difference in diversity between our
Thus, perhaps not surprisingly, many of the results we obtain two individuals, this difference is restricted to the genera-
here are similar to what was reported for T-cell receptors using tion process and is caused by a slight excess of insertions in
similar methods [6]: statistical independence between the individual B. Selection factors on the other hand seem to
insertion and deletion processes, as well as between gene be well-conserved across individuals, pointing to general
choice and insertions; the identity of inserted nucleotides fol- biophysical and biochemical properties that are subject to
lowing a Markovian probability law. Another similarity with selection. The selection factors correlate with some biochemical
T-cell receptors is that the generation process anticipates the properties, including a negative correlation with hydrophobi-
action of selection: sequences that are more likely to be pro- city (in agreement with a previous report that hydrophobic D
duced are more likely to be retained by selection. This segments are selected against [16] after rearrangement).
suggests evolutionary adaptation of the generation machinery. This study also provides a couple of methodological