in the process of introducing biometric-based authentication anthropometric measurements. Additionally, he used mul-

for phone security and mobile payment. tiple descriptive attributes such as eye colour, scars and


Figure 2. Examples of biometric applications. (a) A Texas hospital uses palm scans to verify registered patients. (b) The Office of Biometric Identity Management
(OBIM), formerly referred to as the US-VISIT program, uses all 10 fingerprints to verify the identity of a visa holder entering the United States; the fingerprint data is
also compared against a watch-list of known identities. (c) The identity of ticket holders accessing theme parks in Disney Parks is confirmed using fingerprints to
ensure that the tickets are not shared across customers. (7) An Apple Pay customer initiates payment by placing his finger on the iPhone fingerprint sensor and
holding the phone near a contactless reader. (Online version in colour.)

marks (referred to as soft biometrics in contemporary litera- The aforementioned discussion indicates that the origin
ture) in order to recognize an individual. But the Bertillon of biometric recognition is in fact rooted in the law enforce-
system lacked automation, was cumbersome to administer ment and forensic science domain where ‘recognition’
uniformly (making it prone to error), and even when admi- entailed the apprehension of criminals. But, as stated earlier,
nistered correctly, the measurements were not distinctive it is now being increasingly used in identity management
enough to uniquely identify individuals. Therefore, it was systems where the principal goal is to allow an individual
quickly abandoned in favour of a relatively simpler and to access a resource (e.g. a mobile phone) or receive a
more accurate approach involving manual comparison of privilege (e.g. entering a country). Examples are shown in
human fingerprints. This was made possible by the pioneer- figure 2.

ing works of Faulds, Herschel and Galton, who studied the
distinctiveness of configurations of certain features in a
fingerprint ridge pattern such as minutia points [11].
