these two individuals. (Online version in colour.)

cases, the longstanding experience of a forensic expert is surveillance cameras have rapidly proliferated around the
assumed to be a substitute for scientifically gleaned empirical world, especially in large metropolitan areas. For example, it
evidence. While experiential learning is important when prac- has been estimated that there are more than 1 million CCTV
tising forensic science, it must necessarily be imported into a cameras in the city of London alone and around 4.9 million of
scientific framework that balances ‘domain knowledge’ with them are spread across the UK [24]. Almost all the existing
‘empirical data’. Such a research culture is often missing from CCTV cameras in use are passive in nature in the sense that
forensic science, and empirical data from rigorous studies they merely record the video footage of the monitored location,
that justify forensic scientists’ opinions are scarce. Instead, the and the archived video is analysed by human operators only
non-DNA forensic sciences (e.g. hair and bite marks [21]) after a crime has been committed and reported. Real-time
have shown a disturbing tendency to treat frequently repeated video processing and recognition is seldom carried out either
opinions as scientific facts that are so well-accepted within the to predict or detect an incident or to identify the offender.
field that the absence of supporting data is regarded as unim- The primary challenge in automated real-time video surveil-
portant [22]. Thornton & Peterson [23] succinctly point out: ‘Tt lance is how to detect ‘persons of interest’ in a video and then
is ironic that those areas of forensic science that have real identify them using face recognition systems (also see [15]).
underlying data offer more modest statements of individuali- Another related problem is person re-identification, where the
zation, while those limited to subjective or impressionistic objective is to track the same person as he/she passes through
data make the strongest statements, sometimes of absolute cer- a network of CCTV cameras. Face recognition in surveillance
tainty’. Thus, there is an opportunity for biometric researchers applications is a very challenging problem due to the following
to collaborate with forensic experts and statisticians in assembl- two reasons:

ing large forensic datasets (e.g. fingermarks) and analysing the
reliability and validity of forensic procedures using automated
