— The reporting of results generally espouses the agreed three sources and associate the correct individual to an unknown | 2 |

possible options: identification, exclusion or inconclusive. impression’. And further in its response ‘SWGFAST acknowl-
Experts are actively discouraged by their professional edges that errors do occur and furthermore that claims of zero a
bodies from expressing themselves in probabilistic terms. error rate in the discipline are not scientifically plausible’. s
When an identification conclusion is reached, the term con- The European Network of Forensic Science Institutes has a
veys the notion that the mark and print could not possibly reacted through its European fingerprint working group = >
have come from two different individuals. Conversely, (ENFSI-EPWG) [7]. After recalling the different initiatives S$
a conclusion of exclusion makes it impossible for that of the ENFSI-EPWG as well as Interpol that address some =
individual to be the source of the mark. of the points made in the report, it was agreed on the need =
— The reliability of the ACE-V process remains unknown for devoting careful attention to the way fingerprint evidence “2
and could be improved if specific measurement criteria is reported because (p. 678): ‘such evidence should not be ‘©
were defined. Those criteria become increasingly impor- considered as absolute or factually sufficient in itself to = -
tant as the quality of the marks reduces. Experts testify exclude every donor on the planet’. =
ina language of absolute certainty and the report, quoting In the scholarly literature, critical attention was also given =
Mnookin [2], invites experts to adopt more modest claims to how fingerprint evidence ought to be conveyed in court. -
about the meaning and significance of their findings. Mnookin [8] insisted on the limitations of fingerprint research 2
at the time of the NRC report and rightly clarified the key issue
The NRC report drew a rather critical, and for many, unex- (p. 1240): ‘The problem with fingerprint evidence is not that it w
pected picture of the fingerprint area. It received mixed completely lacks probative power, but rather that research on =
reactions and commentaries that I shall summarize below. the domain has not yet established the appropriate limits to
its probative power, or shown how that value varies depending s
on its quality or its quantity of information’. Mnookin is calling = S

2. Res ponses to the National Research for a stricter regime to testify to individualization. The question