substantially adversarial. National legislative choices have The demands of legitimacy, in both its normative and 2
accordingly been redefined as questions of degree, ideologi- sociological registers, have profound and far-reaching impli- ©
cal emphasis, cultural style and detailed institutional design. cations for the conduct of criminal adjudication. In a s
Secondly, with particular respect to forensic science and contested criminal trial in England and Wales, the prosecu-  &
other expert evidence, there is evident growing disquiet tion must be able to adduce persuasive proof of guilt in
among local commentators about the propensity for inquisitor- open court, normally by eliciting the oral testimony of wit-
ial process and court-appointed experts to produce suboptimal nesses who are physically present in the witness-box (there
outcomes, including miscarriages of justice.” Pitched at a gen- may also be supporting documentary evidence and physical
eral level, adversarialism and inquisitorialism can be exhibits). The prosecution’s evidence must be expressed in
regarded as having mirror-image strengths and weaknesses. terms that a lay jury can understand and, if persuaded by
Adversarial procedure is strong on party autonomy and it, accept as a legitimate basis for imposing penal censure
vigorous cross-examination, but vulnerable to partisanship and sanctions on the accused. In this procedural tradition,
and distortion in fact-finding. Inquisitorial procedure (ide- the jury is the ultimate arbiter of fact, and a criminal trial
ally) encourages comprehensive, objective judicial inquiry jury is not obliged to accept even uncontested expert evi-
into all relevant matters, but disempowers the parties relative dence on technical matters.° Some might regard this as
to the tribunal and may prioritize securing bureaucratically irrational; surely, ex hypothesi, the expert knows best? But
efficient case-processing, oiled by conventional professio- even if the expert does know best within his or her sphere
nal (include expert) consensus, over more time-consuming of technical competence, this does not settle procedural or
forensic conflict, searching evidential scrutiny, minority substantive questions of justice. In the type of legal system
viewpoints or dissenting voices. Conventional wisdom is no in which deference to specialist expertise is the cultural
more an infallible guide to the truth of disputed events norm, the legitimacy of forensic fact-finding is underwritten
than adversarial argument. Playing off abstract procedural by faith in scientific rationality and the integrity of the judicial
models against each other thus tends to exhaust itself in an process for selecting competent court-appointed experts. But
unilluminating theoretical impasse, particularly in light of I cannot imagine this arrangement ever being acceptable in
what has already been said about the practical significance England and Wales, where the prevailing attitude towards