eral level, adversarialism and inquisitorialism can be exhibits). The prosecution’s evidence must be expressed in
regarded as having mirror-image strengths and weaknesses. terms that a lay jury can understand and, if persuaded by
Adversarial procedure is strong on party autonomy and it, accept as a legitimate basis for imposing penal censure
vigorous cross-examination, but vulnerable to partisanship and sanctions on the accused. In this procedural tradition,
and distortion in fact-finding. Inquisitorial procedure (ide- the jury is the ultimate arbiter of fact, and a criminal trial
ally) encourages comprehensive, objective judicial inquiry jury is not obliged to accept even uncontested expert evi-
into all relevant matters, but disempowers the parties relative dence on technical matters.° Some might regard this as
to the tribunal and may prioritize securing bureaucratically irrational; surely, ex hypothesi, the expert knows best? But
efficient case-processing, oiled by conventional professio- even if the expert does know best within his or her sphere
nal (include expert) consensus, over more time-consuming of technical competence, this does not settle procedural or
forensic conflict, searching evidential scrutiny, minority substantive questions of justice. In the type of legal system
viewpoints or dissenting voices. Conventional wisdom is no in which deference to specialist expertise is the cultural
more an infallible guide to the truth of disputed events norm, the legitimacy of forensic fact-finding is underwritten
than adversarial argument. Playing off abstract procedural by faith in scientific rationality and the integrity of the judicial
models against each other thus tends to exhaust itself in an process for selecting competent court-appointed experts. But
unilluminating theoretical impasse, particularly in light of I cannot imagine this arrangement ever being acceptable in
what has already been said about the practical significance England and Wales, where the prevailing attitude towards
of institutional cultures and practitioners’ working routines expertise is one of, let us say, contingent credibility subject
for the quality of the administration of criminal justice in to satisfactory performance. In an informal sense, expert evi-
particular jurisdictions. dence is always received de bene esse (by legal indulgence),
Which brings me to the third, and methodologically most just as authority figures in general do not command automatic
substantial, qualification on the pretensions of inquisitorialism. social deference. We generally expect there to be two sides to
As the criteria of procedural excellence are relative to particular any argument, and scientific disputes are no exception.
legal jurisdictions, the transportability of procedural models Indeed, expertise of all kinds is tainted by the whiff of anti-
across national borders cannot be assumed. Institutional democratic dogma, to the point where, apparently, many