havioural scientists or statisticians applying Bayes theorem. and early enthusiasms may need to be curbed in the light of s
The moral to be drawn from such unlikely thought-exper- further, sobering, experience. The methodological credentials a
iments is that technical expertise may be ‘too true to be of some forms of forensic expertise have been challenged and = 2
good’ [30, p. 702-703]. for the practical purposes of criminal exposed as ‘junk science’. Further difficulties arise in relation 5
adjudication. Jurors cannot accept and act upon information to statistics and probabilities [$4,85].°° Even if experts present =
which they cannot understand or process rationally. This scrupulously sound testimony, there is no guarantee that lay =
threshold epistemic constraint has the salutary effect of for- fact-finders will crack experts’ linguistic codes and be able to“
cing expert witnesses to communicate their evidence in give scientific evidence the probative value it truly meritson ©
language that is reasonably comprehensible to ordinary the facts [86]. There have been instances of genuine experts = -5
people, concentrating on material issues in the trial and at a overreaching the boundaries of their legitimate expertise =
level of granularity and technical detail pertinent to the and isolated allegations of phoney proffered expertise (‘char- =
jury’s task in arriving at an institutionally competent verdict. latanism’). Sometimes well-qualified experts disagree with -
In summary, legitimacy demands that adequate epistemic one another, potentially leaving lay fact-finders in a quand- 2
warrant for criminal adjudication must be demonstrably ary.” Psychiatric and psychological testimony poses ©
sound, not just endorsed as valid by specialist expert commu- additional problems, arising from the inherent difficulties of we
nities. Justice must be ‘seen to be done’; miraculous revelation obtaining reliable information about mental states and con- ©
cannot secure legitimacy for criminal verdicts in England and ditions, and applying relevant legal (mens rea) concepts and = &
Wales. Bayesians and behavioural scientists are, in this sense, criminal law defences to prove mental states (not to mention s
no different from somebody who claims to have invented a the propensity of some expert witnesses to pad out their = &
magic credibility machine or to have paranormal powers to reports with inadmissible hearsay and to stray into areas of
channel divine omniscience. The persuasive burden lies normative appraisal properly reserved for the court [87].
squarely on the shoulders of critics of traditional adjudicative For these and other reasons, summarized in §2, forensic
practices, and the argument must be addressed to legislators, science evidence and other expert testimony should always
policymakers and the public at large, rather than to judges or be approached with circumspection. Investigators, prosecu-
juries. As a challenge to orthodox jurisprudential (and consti- tors, defence lawyers and courts need to be attentive both