warrant for criminal adjudication must be demonstrably ary.” Psychiatric and psychological testimony poses ©
sound, not just endorsed as valid by specialist expert commu- additional problems, arising from the inherent difficulties of we
nities. Justice must be ‘seen to be done’; miraculous revelation obtaining reliable information about mental states and con- ©
cannot secure legitimacy for criminal verdicts in England and ditions, and applying relevant legal (mens rea) concepts and = &
Wales. Bayesians and behavioural scientists are, in this sense, criminal law defences to prove mental states (not to mention s
no different from somebody who claims to have invented a the propensity of some expert witnesses to pad out their = &
magic credibility machine or to have paranormal powers to reports with inadmissible hearsay and to stray into areas of
channel divine omniscience. The persuasive burden lies normative appraisal properly reserved for the court [87].
squarely on the shoulders of critics of traditional adjudicative For these and other reasons, summarized in §2, forensic
practices, and the argument must be addressed to legislators, science evidence and other expert testimony should always
policymakers and the public at large, rather than to judges or be approached with circumspection. Investigators, prosecu-
juries. As a challenge to orthodox jurisprudential (and consti- tors, defence lawyers and courts need to be attentive both
tutional) frameworks, it cannot realistically expect to gain to what specific fact or facts scientific evidence purports to
any traction at the level of individual cases or contested prove (questions of relevance and materiality), and to the
trials. Unless the jury can appreciate, at least in broad strength of the inferential conclusion to which the evidence
terms, why an expert has arrived at particular conclusions, points (the probative value or weight of the evidence). Scien-
it will not—and should not—condemn the accused as a crim- tific evidence is capable of being dispositive of criminal
inal wrongdoer (or, for that matter, acquit a defendant whom proceedings, even in the absence of a contested trial. Defence
it otherwise believes guilty on the evidence). counsel may be inclined to advise their clients to plead guilty
One can certainly debate the merits of these institutional if the (apparent) strength of the scientific case against the
arrangements, either as a purely intellectual exercise or accused appears overwhelming. Whomever is assessing the
with programmatic objectives. However, pending wholesale quality and strength of expert evidence at whatever stage of
radical reform, this is the system of criminal adjudication criminal proceedings—whether forensic scientists advising
we have in England and Wales, it is hallowed by longstand- police investigators, or prosecutors making decisions about
ing tradition, and—apparently—enjoys widespread cultural charge or case progression, or defence lawyers advising on