evaluation in freshwater systems tion of measurement periods and interpretation of differences

Ferraro [7] listed a number of barriers for evaluating the between treated and control trajectories.

impact of environmental programmes such as protected

area designation and management. Given that most evalu- (b) Spatial scale of ecological processes and spill-over
ations of protected area impacts have focused on terrestrial

ecosystems, it is important to consider the extent to which effects

these potential barriers apply to freshwater ecosystems and Rivers and wetlands rarely have their entire catchments pro-
to the potential challenges and opportunities for impact tected. In fact, rivers are often used as the boundary lines for
evaluation in freshwater ecosystems. Most barriers are simi- protected areas, creating mixed land use on either side of the
lar across realms, such as limited resources (small operations river [35]. One of the few exceptions in Australia is Kakadu
budgets) or data (e.g. infrequent sampling, insufficient National Park (see §4 and figure 1), which was established
baselines) for undertaking evaluations. Three potential at a scale to protect the entire catchment of a large floodplain
barriers—relating to high levels of natural variability and river. Furthermore, protected areas are rarely declared with
spatio-temporal connectivity—may be particularly difficult specific objectives for freshwater ecosystems. Developing
to account for in freshwater systems. For these three barriers, freshwater management plans or objectives tends to occur
we highlight possible confounding factors—extraneous vari- retrospectively [29]. Where freshwater systems are specifi-
ables that correlate with both the selection and outcome of cally protected, the protection is often linked with the
treatment—that should be accounted for. We discuss each imposition of a direct threat elsewhere; examples are protect-
of the barriers individually with a special focus on freshwater ing the upper reaches of dam catchments to maintain water
