where they were located, (iii) over what time-span interventions generally only collect information on project processes and =
took place, (iv) how and on what were resources allocated outputs rather than outcomes and impacts. The benefits of con- ‘2
within the protected areas, (v) what specific actions and activi- sidering evaluation when designing projects are that it will ©
ties were carried out in individual protected areas, and (vi) how clarify programme objectives, identify theories of change, and =
objective-related biodiversity outcome metrics are changing in define performance indicators and data collection protocols = =
the protected areas. For the majority of projects, these pieces [15]. To facilitate the link between project design and evaluation, S
of information were absent from the available records. it may help if there were closer collaboration between the evalu- ”
Of particular difficulty for impact evaluation was the lack of ation and implementation departments within agencies to -
certainty about whether or not individual protected areas enable the evaluator’s expertise to inform project design. The = >
were included in projects, which compromised the selection high degree of independence of the evaluation offices in the o
of suitable comparison sites to represent the counterfactual out- GEF and UNDP is necessary for evaluating some organization- =
comes. Some of the sites selected for comparison, which were al functions and where a paucity of data requires subjective 5
believed to be unsupported by the GEF, may in fact have assessments to be reported. However, where rigorous impact s
received unrecorded GEF support. Where projects had highly evaluation is implemented, then project outcomes are measured Fe]
non-specific objectives, it was difficult to assess whether a with empirical data and a high level of independence is not

valid theory of change existed between GEF support to protect- necessary to ensure unbiased reporting.

ed areas and the biological outcomes assessed (deforestation Data management and the measurement of empirical

rates and vertebrate abundance changes). project outcomes could be improved by coordination with suit-

The tools currently used by the GEF to evaluate projects able specialist institutions to enable collection and curation
(terminal evaluations and the Management Effectiveness of relevant biodiversity monitoring data. These institutions
Tracking Tool, METT) are useful to assess the individual pro- include UNEP’s World Conservation Monitoring Centre