The population density inside areas earmarked for additional ‘land nobody wants’, leaving imperiled species at risk from
protection under the PA expansion plan for ecoregions was habitat loss [31].
29.1 people km™? and outside was 51.3 people km~*. The Interpreting Aichi target 11 as specifically aimed at pro-
uman density inside additional areas earmarked for pro- tecting threatened and range-restricted species, and
tection for threatened species targets was 96.8 people km 7 assuming that PAs are effectively enforced and immune to
and outside was 47.7 people km~2. These values were the habitat loss, are expected to have positive effects on these
same under both socio-economic scenarios because we used species. PA expansion driven by this interpretation of Aichi
current population density to obtain them. target 11 can therefore contribute to the achievement of

Aichi target 12, as we show here. However, PAs are not the
appropriate tool for protecting wide-ranging species [13],

(ii) Unmet demand for cropland, pastures and forestry areas and in fact, these species were projected to decline even if
The PA expansion plan for ecoregions generated a shortfall in granted additional protection under the BAU socio-economic
availability of agricultural land (cropland and pastures) in scenario. Through our analyses of projected land-use change
Northern Africa and in the Middle East (electronic sup- under the Consumption Change scenario, we found that
plementary material, table S5). These conflicts between changes in consumption patterns will have larger impacts
conservation and agriculture were somewhat reduced in the than expanding PAs for terrestrial mammal species in the
Consumption Change scenario. We also found a shortfall in upper half of the range-size distribution.
the amount of forest subject to clear-cut and selective logging We found that protecting threatened species will imply
in 2020 for the BAU and Consumption Change scenarios in setting aside land for conservation in densely populated
two regions: Indonesia + Papua New Guinea (PNG) and areas, even when explicitly attempting to avoid them
Central Asia. For both regions, the total shortfall in area during the conservation prioritization process. This means
subject to periodic harvest was slightly lower in BAU with that countries and conservation agencies willing to adopt
respect to Consumption Change because part of the timber proposals for targeted protection of threatened species, in