
driven by the coding sequence of the VSGs, so enabling util- the capacity for its successful uptake and establishment in
ization of the VSG pseudogenes; here, multiple VSG ORFs the tsetse fly) to maximize its long-term survival and spread. a
(intact, pseudogene or gene fragments) can be recombined The trypanosome achieves this by regulating its growth s
(figure 2b), creating novel antigens (mosaic VSGs) and there- within mammalian hosts in a density-dependent manner a
fore multiplying the potential expressed VSG diversity well [45-47] and through the generation of a specialized develop- 3
beyond the limitations of the existing genome’s VSG reper- mental stage, the stumpy form, optimized for transmission to 5
toire [37,38]. We have much to learn about this reaction; for tsetse flies [48]. These adaptations are linked because the S
instance, unlike VSG conversion of intact genes, which gen- stumpy forms are non-proliferative and are generated from =
etic evidence shows is linked to homologous recombination, proliferative slender forms through a quorum-sensing-like “2
no factors (cis- or trans-acting) that act in segmental VSG process, whereby a soluble parasite-derived factor triggers ©
gene conversion have been described; also, we do not know the developmental transition [45]. The identity of the factor, = -s
where VSG assembly occurs in the genome. called stumpy induction factor (SIF) (though it may in fact rep- =
The different mechanisms of VSG gene activation resent a mixture of factors), is unknown but evidence suggests =
(expression site activation, gene conversion driven by flanking that it is small (less than 500 Da), heat stable and generated by -
repeat sequences, assembly of mosaic genes) have different slender forms, such that it accumulates to provide a measure of 2
probabilities that shape the profile of expressed VSGs during parasite density [45]. While the factor is uncharacterized, a S
a chronic infection [42]. Early in infection, switching between recent genome-wide screen identified molecular components w
intact telomeric VSG genes seems to predominate. In part, of the cellular response pathway leading to the production of 2
this may be due to transcriptional switching, perhaps as stumpy forms [49]. Several protein kinases and phosphatases 5
a means to establish active transcription of the most host- were revealed as signal transduction components, as well as s
appropriate expression site [43]. However, it is also a result of gene expression regulators (namely predicted RNA-binding &
early telomeric VSG recombination, which may reflect the proteins) and hypothetical proteins of unknown function.
observation that the proportion of such VSGs that are intact The screen identified drivers of stumpy formation whose
and functional, both in the expression sites [18] and in the mini- genetic depletion or ablation prevented the developmen-