
position and the oropharyngeal microbiome, likely due to respiratory diseases: on the one hand, ‘pathogen’ carriage is a
local dispersion of bacterial assemblages and similar environ- prerequisite for development of disease; on the other hand, a
mental pressure. The antagonistic and synergistic interactions pathobiont colonization does not necessarily lead to infection s
between bacteria observed in the oropharynx will therefore pre- and has even been suggested to provide resistance against a
sumably similarly affect the spatial structure of microbial acquisition of new pathogenic strains [104]. As the risk of devel-  2-
communities in the mouth. oping respiratory infections seems specifically related to recent 5
Although not extensively researched for the URT, vari- acquisition of a new strain [104,105], a state of bacterial symbio- =
ations in microbial community structure have also been sis, even including potential pathogens, may be protective =
demonstrated to arise from differences in local availability of against short-term infection and inflammation. Nevertheless, “2
resources; for example, the oral cavity is enriched in bacterial carriage can develop towards respiratory disease in a fraction ©
carbohydrate-active enzymes responsible for degradation of of cases, a process that can be triggered by various exo- or -5
simple sugars, such as dextran, whereas intestinal flora is endogenous stimuli [106-108]. Especially, this fact supports =
capable of metabolising more complex carbohydrates [93]. the hypothesis that overgrowth of a potential pathogen is not S
Acute infection in the oral cavity is a rare event, presum- a random event, but instead a co-occurrence of multiple factors -
ably owing to the tolerogenic local circumstances mediated leading to lack of containment of the potential pathogen by the 2
by dendritic cells (DCs) and various T-cell subtypes. Similar resident commensals and local immunity. Both seem more S
to the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and oral cavity are sus- likely to fail following a recent acquisition of a new bacterium w
tained by specialized mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, or viral co-infection, inducing a combined state of temporary 2
which is imperative for antigen recognition and initiation of dysbiosis in the absence of adaptive immunity. 3
an adequate immune response [94]. The equilibrium between Next-generation sequencing of the nasopharyngeal micro- &
oral mucosal tolerance and inflammation is strongly guarded biome of healthy children and children suffering from mild — S
by DCs. DC-induced upregulation of Toll-like receptor (TLR)4 URT infections, revealed that colonization with and density of
by resident microbes induces the production of immunosup- a potential pathogen (S. pneumoniae, M. catarrhalis and
pressive interleukins including IL-10, subsequently activating H. influenzae) is related to a less evenly distributed microbiome,