unc-30, unc-55 and unc-3 encodes transcription factors [46]. develop the first practical confocal microscope [51]. The results
We now know the protein products of all 30 ‘uncoordi- of C. elegans research have been periodically summarized in
nated’ genes studied in the initial EM investigations. Eight two published books, one in 1988 and one in 1997, and now
are components of synapses. Another 11 are proteins found in a continually updated ebook [52,53], WormBook.org.
in all cells involved in various aspects of cell structure and Research on C. elegans has three important attributes. The
function. These results reflect the unanticipated contribution first is that it is founded on observational, descriptive science.
C. elegans research has made to cell biology in general and Ever since Rutherford said ‘all science is either physics or
cell biology of the nervous system in particular. stamp collecting’, there has been a prejudice in favour of
The set that gave clear changes to nervous system structure experimental, so-called ‘hypothesis-driven’, ‘hard’ science.
includes, in addition to unc-5 and two genes that work with it, But of course you first have to know about something
eight transcription factors. This hints that a change in the before you can formulate a hypothesis about it. Brenner
expression of multiple genes is required to bring about rewiring called it ‘have a look science’. Descriptive observation is in
or loss of connectivity. This may explain the surprising absence fact at the core of scientific investigation.
of a class of genes anticipated by Brenner: genes encoding pro- The second attribute is one of completeness—the descrip-
teins that function as molecular cell labels to allow pre- and tion needs to be complete. Brenner emphasized this point
post-synaptic cells to recognize each other. This event is crucial when proposing to determine the wiring diagram of an
for establishing a wiring diagram. Molecular cell labels should animal in its entirety. He is fond of pointing out the necessity
consist of secreted or transmembrane proteins with extracellu- of refuting the sceptic who says there is another wire. ‘There
lar protein-protein interaction domains. There are many such are no other wires, we know all the wires!’ In addition to the
genes in the C. elegans genome, as in the genomes of all animals. connectome, the cell lineage represents a second set of com-
Deliberate genetic searches have identified a few that are plete observations underlying C. elegans research. And of
involved in synapse formation [41,42]. But there must be a course the genome sequence is a third, considered a land-
very large number responsible for the complex pattern of con- mark in biology. Such completeness allows a greater degree
nections. Why more mutations in them have not been found of rigor when drawing conclusions from experiments. Poss-
remains to be seen. ibly the success of C. elegans research has led to a more