zontal flows (even when massive) when using only tree-like along its entirety, and reticulations on phylogenetic network
models is evident in the history of haloarchaeal studies. graphs indicate places where recombination events between
One of the first analyses of complete genomes from a broad homologous regions have occurred.
selection of prokaryotes placed the halophiles as deep- More than 10 years ago, Creevey et al. [25] showed that
branching Archaebacteria [18]. The phylogenetic position of strongly supported but completely conflicting phylogenies
this lineage was determined through the interaction of two existed throughout the prokaryote world. Since then, other
signals, both present in the genomes of halophiles, one pull- studies have confirmed that the majority of prokaryotic
ing this lineage towards the methanogenic euryarchaeotes, genome data cannot fit onto a single phylogenetic tree
the other pulling the halophiles towards the Eubacteria. The [26-29] (also see [20]). Only gene flow (both horizontal and
existence of two incongruent signals ultimately caused the vertical) analysis can adequately account for prokaryotic
halophiles to cluster at the base of the archaebacterial tree— evolution [13,30].
a phylogenetic position that was not supported by the indi- More recently, because of our growing realization that so
vidual gene trees. A tree-based analysis could not get the many molecular sequences are in fact composite entities, we
correct answer for the placement of archaebacterial halo- have been advocating a more realistic model of sequence
philes, because halophile evolution is driven by gene flow evolution where we allow the merging of both homologous
based adaptive processes rather than by a pure cladogenetic and non-homologous evolving entities [31-33]. In this
process. Indeed, archaebacterial evolution more broadly can view, we can analyse situations where very different evolving
only be fully understood when considered as the result of entities, sometimes from the same evolutionary level (e.g.
large-scale horizontal gene flows [19] interacting with vertical symbiosis of two organisms, merger of two genes) and some-
ones. This is because the origins of most major groups of times from different levels (e.g. plasmids merging with cells,
Archaebacteria coincide with massive flows of genes from domains merging with genes) can merge [14]. This is a
Eubacteria to Archaebacteria [19,20]. It is becoming increas- ‘goods-thinking’ outlook and can have many benefits [12].
ingly evident that at least some of the genes present in We have recently defined N-rooted fusion graphs that can
every known organism or lineage (animals included) under- instead be used to depict branching relationships with
went part of their evolution in a completely different lineage mergings [31,33].