It has been much more rarely speculated that some of the incidentally, served to revive more or less old ideas about the
divergent sequences retrieved in metagenomic studies may role of viruses in early evolution [32,33]. In parallel with
belong to representatives of an unknown number of yet-to- the immense recent improvement of the scientific knowledge
discover domains of life. One example is the identification of on the diversity of viruses infecting members of the three
divergent sequences of some highly conserved housekeeping domains of life, speculations on viruses depicted as creative
protein families (e.g. RecA and RpoB) in the global ocean evolutionary agents at the origin of essential traits of cellular
sampling metagenome data, which occupied a deep-branching organisms have flourished. Among many others, they include
position in phylogenetic trees [19]. The possibility that some of viruses as the ‘inventors’ of DNA [34] and viruses at the origin
these divergent sequences represent divergent paralogues or of the eukaryotic nucleus [35,36]. A common point to most of
putative natural chimaeric sequences originated from recombi- these hypotheses is the absence of clear mechanistic details
nation between distant organisms was considered as very explaining how the supposed viral inventions were adopted
unlikely. The authors favoured the alternative hypotheses by cellular organisms or gave rise to stable complex cellular
that they could belong to new viral lineages or to new structures, such as the nucleus. In fact, in many cases, these
domain(s) of life [19]. However, in the same analysis, they hypotheses simply try to provide ad hoc answers to complex
failed to observe similar results for the phylogenetic marker evolutionary questions by appealing to completely hypotheti-

par excellence, the small subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA). cal resourceful capacities of viruses (envisaged as multipotent


creative agents). An additional problem with these models is
the systematic confusion between homology and analogy.
This often leads to very unparsimonious proposals.

For example, let us examine the hypothesis that viruses
have ‘invented’ DNA. This idea originated from a puzzling