then). But Leeuwenhoek did now employ a draughtsman, to move nimbly, to turne, stay, accelerate and retard their
whose regular gasps of astonishment when shown various progresse at pleasure. And it was not less surprising to
little animals punctuate Leeuwenhoek’s later _ letters find that these were gygantick monsters [protozoa] in com-
(Oh, that one could ever depict so wonderful a motion!’). parison of a lesser sort which almost filled the water
Some of these limner’s drawings are shown in figure 3. [bacteria]’ [21].
Leeuwenhoek also sent eight testimonies from gentlemen Unlike Leeuwenhoek, Hooke gave precise details of his
of repute—a Lutheran minister, a notary and a barrister, microscopical methods, and demonstrated them before the
among others. It is striking to the modern reader that none gathered fellows, including Sir Christopher Wren, later pub-
of these gentlemen were natural philosophers acquainted lishing both his methods and observations in Microscopium
with the methods of science; but according to the historian (1678) [20]. He even taught himself Dutch, so that he could
Steven Shapin, it was the bond of the gentleman that read the letters of the ‘ingenious Mr Leeuwenhoek’. As
counted. The practice of signed testimonies from gentlemen noted by the microscopist Brian J. Ford [22] and microbiologist
was common in the seventeenth century; the fact that Leeu- Howard Gest [23], Hooke was a central and too-often over-
wenhoek called upon eight such testimonies attests to the looked figure in the history of microbiology: his earlier book
unprecedented character of his findings, but also perhaps to Micrographia (1665) most likely inspired Leeuwenhoek to
his lower social standing [18]. begin his own microscopical studies. Without Hooke’s sup-
No doubt all this was helpful, but it was countered port and verification—a task beyond several of the best
by letters from others such as Christiaan Huygens (son of microscopists of the age, including Grew—Leeuwenhoek
Constanijn), then in Paris, who at that time remained scepti- might easily have been dismissed as a charlatan. Instead,
cal, as was his wont: ‘I should greatly like to know how much through Hooke’s impressive demonstrations, and with
credence our Mr Leeuwenhoek’s observations obtain among the direct support of the patron of the Royal Society, King
you. He resolves everything into little globules; but for my Charles II, Leeuwenhoek was elected a Fellow in 1680.
part, after vainly trying to see some of the things which he Others had independently changed their view of Leeuwen-
sees, I much misdoubt me whether they be not illusions of hoek in the interim, but that did little to alter the course of
his sight’ [19]. The Royal Society tasked Nehemiah Grew, events. Christiaan Huygens, for example, overcame his