[41]; they sought only to distinguish bacteria (prokaryotic are the most delicate expression possible of the phenotype
cells, lacking a nucleus) from larger eukaryotic protists, of an organism and that vast amounts of evolutionary
all of which have a nucleus. In this, they were remarka- information may be hidden away within them’ [42]. Soon
bly perspicacious, commenting: ‘The differences between afterwards, Zuckerkandl & Pauling [43] formalized the argu-
eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells are not expressed in any ment with sequence data; and a mere two decades later,
gross features of cellular function; they reside rather in Carl Woese published his first tree of life [44]. Woese [45]
differences with respect to the detailed organization of the cellular was soon dismissing Stanier and van Niel as epitomising the
machinery’ [41]. They cite the examples of respiration and dark ages of microbiology, when microbiologists had given
photosynthesis, found in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic up any prospect of a true phylogeny. Woese’s tree was based
cells: ‘But in the prokaryotic cell, these metabolic unit on ribosomal RNA. He showed that prokaryotes are not
processes are performed by an apparatus which always monophyletic at all, but subdivide into two great domains,
shows a much smaller degree of specific organization. In the bacteria and archaea. Later work, which used other
fact, one can say that no unit of structure smaller than the methods to ‘root’ the tree [46], portrayed the eukaryotes as a
cell in its entirety is recognizable as the site of either metabolic ‘sister group’ to the archaea [47]. For the first time, it seemed
unit process’ [41]. This is a beautiful insight, worthy of possible to reconstruct the evolutionary relationships between
Leeuwenhoek himself. In eukaryotes, respiration and photo- Leeuwenhoek’s animalcules in an evolutionary tree of life.
synthesis are conducted in mitochondria and chloroplasts, Woese and his co-workers went so far as to argue that the
respectively, and continue perfectly well in isolation from term prokaryote was obsolete, being an invalid negative defi-
the rest of the cell, as all the soluble enzymes needed are nition (i.e. prokaryotes are defined by the absence of a nucleus;
constrained within the bioenergetic membranes of the [48]). The three domains tree is still the standard text book
organelle. In bacteria, by contrast, the enzymes required view. Even so, for all its revolutionary appeal, Woese’s tree
are split between the cell membrane (whether invaginated is the apotheosis of a reductionist molecular view of evolution,
or otherwise) and the cytosol, making the bacterium as based on constructing trees from a single gene. It is ironic that,
a whole the indivisible functional unit. This distinction later in life, Woese called for a more holistic biology, while
applies as much to cyanobacteria (classed as algae, not bac- refusing to countenance the limitations of his single-gene