lations that leave artefacts in their home range from which despite previously having acquired different preferences. -
behaviour pattern can be concluded [14,26,27]; second to In order to answer these questions, indications of behav- 2
uncover behaviour of past primate activity [21,28]; and ioural pattern prior to immigration are important. These S
third to detect geographical variations in behaviours that patterns remain difficult to discern as direct observations of w
have been directly observed in one population [14,29-31]. immigrants prior to immigration are often not available, 2
Besides detecting spatial distribution of behaviour traits in and the possibility of collecting behavioural data usually ©
certain populations, an archaeological approach can also be starts only with immigration. Female chimpanzees leave 8
used to follow temporal variation in the presence of behav- their native community with the onset of sexual maturity, =
ioural variants within populations, as has been shown in at an age when they already display the cultural repertoire
some instances for our ancestors [32]. of their native community. At times of emigration, they are

In this study, we focus on the temporal variation of tool arte- skillful nutcrackers and display the tool selection pattern of
fact accumulation which, combined with direct behavioural their natal community. Observing immigration is a rare
observations, can provide answers to critical questions concern- occurrence, and only very few cases of female immigration
ing behavioural variations and cultural transmission of tool use have been described [44,49,52]. However, these cases do
in wild chimpanzees. Several studies have shown a diverse indicate that social learning follows migration events.
array of social and individual learning patterns in chimpanzees, Recently, an unusually high number of females (seven)
especially when experimental approaches have been employed immigrated over the course of 23 months into one of the long-
to understand underlying social learning mechanisms. term study communities (South Group) of the Tai forest
A detailed review of mechanisms favouring cultural trans- (table 1). They did not belong to one of the habituated commun-
mission can be found elsewhere in this issue [33]. Percussive ities and therefore no direct observation of their behaviour
tool-use observations in captive chimpanzees suggest that prior to their transfer was available. However, the following
nut-cracking is socially learned [34,35]. However, identification lines of argument provide supporting evidence that all these
of factors facilitating social learning under natural conditions in females originated from the chimpanzee community directly
wild chimpanzee populations has remained challenging. neighbouring the south of habituated South Group [42]. Long-