on their edges and/or surfaces (one-third at BL compared bipolar breakage plane fracture surfaces 3
with two-thirds at FN3: overall 58.8%). A total of 14 pieces impacts 8
from BL and five pieces from FN3 have been identified either cupula; striations cobble surfaces Sv
as possible anvils or anvil fragments. faceted breakage cobble extremities
Non-flaked items from BL tend to be flatter and longer
than at FN3. Pieces with and without traces reflect the fracture angles [33] cobble crests
same size range and index patterning, once again suggesting
that hominins opportunistically used cobbles and blocks
available at the site. As an unknown quantity of limestone The chopper-like tools are cobbles with a few unifacial or
was transported to the site by natural agents, it is very diffi- (rarely) bifacial removals and with use-wear on worked
cult to ascertain what, if any human selective processes were edges. These large tools owe their denomination to the flatness
applied in the choice of hammerstones. However, volumetric of the support upon which they were manufactured. They are
data do indicate that nearly half of the cobbles with percus- in fact widely variant tools. HDS are tools with an abrupt
sion marks from BL are thick and long, while those without convex (or nosed) edge, largely affected by direct abrupt
show an even distribution pattern. At FN3, whole items removals, retouch and/or crushing rising up from a plane sur-
with and without traces are most often thick and short. face [9]. The percussion/crush marks are present exclusively

on the abrupt surface affected by the retouch/removals. The
angle formed by the affected edge and its plane platform is
always considerably abrupt (BL = 101°; FN3= 103°). The

(b) Cores and loosely configured tools nosed edges of the HDS from BL show homogeneous size
Traces of percussion are often situated on cortical areas of the range (approx. 40 mm, average arc = 41 mm) but are widely
cores, indicating their use as hammerstones. It is generally variant at FN3 (20-125mm,; average arc= 103mm). The
impossible to determine at which moment in the operative same is true for the degree of convexity: HDS are slightly