theories are yet to be proven correct. titres with variants in other non-HLA genes estimated to con-

Other interesting consistent observations from the HBV tribute to the majority of the observed variation [37,80].
studies are the findings of associations between vaccine Notably, and consistent with the HBV GWAS, the RV GWAS
response variation and HLA-DP alleles and complement did not identify any such variants. Although there have been
factor C4A gene which resides in the so-called class II various plausible extra-HLA variants that have been proposed
region of the HLA complex. These associations appear to to be associated with variation in response to all of the vaccines
be independent of the other class II associations in the HLA discussed herein, none of these findings have been inde-
region. Identifying the precise variant associated with the pendently replicated and should therefore be considered
HBV response variation in the HLA locus is inherently diffi- with caution.
cult because of the complex and often long-range linkage The associations reported above for HBV, MV and RV are
disequilibrium that exists across the region. The HLA-DP both interesting and potentially informative. However, when
findings are particularly interesting given the concurrent considered altogether, the studies highlight the fact that there
associations of SNPs in the gene with viral clearance in are still substantial gaps in our knowledge and understand-
chronic hepatitis B infection in Asian populations [76], and ing of vaccine response. It is therefore essential to perform
the replicated C4A findings may go some way towards more studies to independently replicate existing putative
explaining the recently reported class III tagging SNP found associations, exclude false-positive associations, and identify
associated with HBV response in the largest GWAS performed variants that explain the remainder of the variation in vaccine
to date [30]. This complement association may have signifi- response and appreciate how other non-genetic factors inter-
cant biological relevance given the reported importance of relate with such observations. Large-scale GWAS offer an
complement to enhancing B-cell activation, survival and attractive method to help dissect the variable contributions
class-switching in the presence of T-cell-dependent antigens of genetic and environmental factors but it will be vital to
such as hepatitis B surface antigen [28,77]. learn from existing studies to maximize the chances of

MV and RV are often compared concurrently because they making novel discoveries.