
Kuruba research methods were evaluated and approved by the insti- 2
combs) tended to be achieve higher productivity per capita tutional review board at Brandeis University. Permission for research =
than smaller groups (P12). P13 was supported by the obser- was established with the Jenu Kuruba community, and informed =
vation that groups pursuing the giant Asian bee—which consent was obtained for each individual in the sample. -
exhibited greater economies of scale—were significantly Data accessibility. The data used in this analysis have been anonymized i
larger than groups pursuing the western-sized bee. Groups and uploaded as part of the electronic supplementary material. g
pursuing stingless bees, however—which show no observable Authors’ contributions. P.L.H., K.D. and D.G. conceived the study. P.L.H., S

. . . K.D., MG. and H.S.K. collected the data. P.L.H. analysed the data. ow
economies of scale in terms of economic production—were PLH,, KD., MG., DG. and HSK. wrote the paper. =
generally larger than those pursuing the western-sized bee. Competing interests. We have no competing interests. =
This finding reflects the fact that individuals may join groups Funding. P.L.H., M.G. and H.S.K. were supported by NSF S&S
for different reasons than to maximize direct economic gains. (BCS-0136274, BCS-0422690 and BCS-0726612) and NIH/NIA &
We hypothesize that the larger size of group pursuing sting- (RO1AG024119). P.L.H. was supported by NSF (BCS-1258489) and
less bees may derive principally from the benefits of learning the Santa Fe Institute. K.D. was supported by ANR-05-PADD-OXX.
and safety for young honey collectors in larger groups. Uncer- Acknowledgements. Thanks to Tsimane’ and Jenu Kuruba community

woe : . + members and assistants, Victoria Reyes-Garcia, Claude Garcia, Fran-
tain information about the amount of honey in hives, and the cisco Zorondo, Jenukall M.G., Kim Hill, Craig Hadley, Jessica

difficulty of excluding unwanted ‘joiners’ [10], may also con- Thompson, Samuel Bowles, Jim Brown, Luis Bettencourt, Ann
tribute to suboptimal foraging groups, as found in a previous Caldwell Hooper, Adrian Jaeggi, Daniel Cummings, Simon DeDeo
study comparing the Jenu Kuruba with nineteenth-century and the Santa Fe Institute.
