tration of battle leaders belonging to the senior Ostrich or We describe how the threat of intragroup conflict in Nyangatom
Antelope generations while none belonged to the Buffalo gen- society contributes to the emergence of institutional leader-
eration provides support for battle leaders generally being ship. Compared with the Tsimane, the Nyangatom have
older than participants as a whole (x* = 33, p < 0.001). greater wealth inequality and depend more on commons such
To establish whether battle leaders have more social con- as grazing areas and point water sources. Greater wealth
nections than comparable men who are not battle leaders, we inequality and more common pool resources have the capacity
used a status-ranking task that involved asking subjects to to create conflicts of interest giving rise to significant intragroup
make status judgements of battle leaders compared with conflict. The ability to manage intragroup conflict is a matter of
other men. Because all battle leaders were elders we com- great importance for the Nyangatom in part because of the high
pared battle leaders with 21 elders who had not previously degree of large-scale cooperation needed for intergroup conflict
led a battle raid. In this task, adult male community members and managing large herds of livestock. Additionally, individ-
were asked to sort battle leaders and non-leaders into one of uals and families cannot simply move away from conflict due
three categories for status: low, medium or high. Status was to the fact that other groups occupy the surrounding territories
operationalized as a well-known, respected person in the with whom there may be hostile relationships. These create
community. A score of 1-3 was assigned to each status jud- the need for institutions and the capacity to solve more serious
gement, respectively, and the scores of each subject were collective action problems.
summed allowing us to rank individuals by status. We Intragroup conflict can be caused by personal disputes, grie-
found that battle leaders had higher status than elders who vances or serious offences such as theft. In most cases, disputants
had not ever led a battle raid (Z = 2.6, p = 0.01). However, resolve their differences through informal mechanisms, such as
these results are confounded by the possibility that higher discussion, or they remain unresolved and the two parties may
status for battle leaders may be a result of leading a battle actively avoid each other, including moving to separate villages.
raid and not a reason why a person was able to become a For serious offences, such as the theft of livestock, the victim and
battle leader. Emic accounts indicate that although participat- their family may try to exact compensation by making demands
ing in warfare is a pathway to increased status, battle raid for payment of livestock from the culprit’s family.
leaders must be well-connected and respected in order to The social organization of the Nyangatom contributes to