Four of the six pathogens reported to cause the majority of on LPS localization [71]. The field anxiously waits to see how
antibiotic-resistant infections in hospitals (the ‘ESKAPE’ LpxC and LptD inhibitors perform in clinical trials.

pathogens) are Gram-negative [60], but the most important
classes of antibiotics effective against Gram-negative infec-

tions were discovered more than 50 years ago. Given the 8 C onclusi on
dearth of options, physicians have resorted to using colistin, ,
a drug of last resort owing to its toxicity, to treat resistant Remarkable progress has been made since the 2004 discovery
Gram-negative infections [61]. that LptD is directly involved in LPS transport. Strong evidence
In this clinical environment, new antibiotics effective has been put forth for the existence of a transmembrane bridge to
against Gram-negative bacteria are desperately needed. The usher LPS from the IM to the OM. This bridge cannot form unless
OM is a clear target. In fact, colistin, a polycationic lipopep- the OM translocon is properly assembled, which relies on the
tide antibiotic, is thought to permeabilize the OM by coordination of the lipoprotein and beta-barrel assembly path-
binding LPS, enabling access to its suspected lethal target, ways. The publication of the LptDE translocon structures will
the IM [62]. If a molecule that affects the OM is not lethal enable studies of the mechanism of LPS insertion and further
on its own, it could be effective in combination with an anti- the development of LptD-targeting molecules. Despite this pro-
biotic that cannot normally cross the OM barrier. Loss of LPS gress, however, much remains unknown. Does the final insertion
in organisms in which it is nonessential (e.g. Acinetobacter into the OM require energy? How do LptD and LptE work
baumannii) renders them less virulent and more susceptible together to insert LPS? Does the cell regulate LPS transport?
to antibiotics [18,63—-65]. Moreover, molecules that interfere If so, how? Finally, can we develop strategies to discover more
with OM biogenesis may be able to potentiate their own molecules that interfere with this assembly process?

uptake. In the Lpt system, LptB may be an attractive target
[66,67], as it is the only enzyme in the pathway.