measured peak heights or areas. Recent uses of quantitative studies. Most compositional and structural studies of the
CPMAS have led to the determination of bacterial biofilm S. aureus peptidoglycan have been performed on lyophilized
matrix composition in Escherichia coli and Vibrio cholerae samples of whole cells and cell walls. Structural studies have
[36,37]. In practice, CP corrections are often not necessary for been performed with antibiotics bound to cell walls or whole
the types of carbon spin systems in cell walls, whole cells cells, typically prepared in trehalose- or ethanolamine-based
and biofilms, but this should be determined if absolute lyophilization buffers, wherein trehalose serves as an effective
quantification is desired. hydrogen bonding partner as bulk water is removed during

lyophilization. Such lyophilized formulations have permitted
structure-based studies of enzymes such as lumazine synthase

(b) Access to dipolar couplings [42], EPSP synthase [43], factor Xa [44] and uracil DNA glyco-
A powerful aspect of CPMAS NMR is the fact that solution-like sylase [45], and are not perturbative to structure. The enzymes
high-resolution spectra are achieved by sample spinning in a can maintain their enzymatic activity even after NMR mea-
coherent way, such that the distance information contained surements upon sample rehydration and assay. This was
in the dipolar couplings is not lost and can be measured by specifically reported for uracil DNA glycosylase, where greater
manipulating the spin coordinates with pulse sequences to than 60% activity was recovered after 2 years in the lyophilized
re-introduce the dipolar couplings, which depend on the dis- state, typical of the decrease observed for normal hydrated
tance (as recently reviewed in [38,39]). In contrast, in solution enzyme stocks stored at —80°C [45]. Proteins such as insulin
NMR, molecules are rapidly tumbling, and the averaging of and others of interest to the pharmaceutical industry are regu-
the dipolar couplings is random. Thus, long-range dipolar larly prepared and supplied as lyophilized formulations, and
couplings cannot be accessed in solution without using strat- bacteria are often stored and shipped as lyophilized powders.
egies to restrict motion or align molecules in the sample. The Naturally, care should always be taken to verify or optimize
major solid-state NMR recoupling measurement tool covered ideal lyophilization buffer conditions for new systems.
