(GPCRs), known transducers of signals from many sensory analysis with good bootstrap values (more than 85 in most
systems. Our interest in the latter group lies not only in their cases, except one of them that was 69) for all the X. bocki
crucial and varied functions, but also in the fact that they are Wnts (we found clear orthologues of: Wntl, Wnt2, Wnt3,
the largest and most diverse superfamily of transmembrane Wnt4, Wnt5, Wnt6, Wnt7, Wnt8, Wntl0, Wnt11 and Wnt16)
receptors [75,76], which allows us to assess gene complement (figure 4). We found two putative Wnt8 orthologues; however,
changes (and families’ diversification) within the clade and since they share a stretch of 35 amino acids it is possible that
relate them to the different degrees of NS centralization they correspond, in fact, to two predictions for the same Wnt
observed in the constituent species. protein. Intriguingly, it was impossible to classify with confi-
A detailed study performed on those two groups of genes dence the S. roscoffensis Wnts, since they do not clearly
is already published [29]. Summarizing, and as shown in cluster with members of any known Wnt subfamily. When
table 1, we found that, as a general pattern, the number of they do, their positions in the tree are only supported with
genes belonging to each family is lower in S. roscoffensis excessively low bootstrap values, all having very long branches
than in X. bocki: 18 bHLHs and 225 GPCRs were present in (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). In fact, even
the former; 33 bHLHs and 258 GPCRs in the latter. This is though the reference species used were the same in both
consistent with, for instance, the number of Hox genes trees, the bootstrap values obtained for all the families decrease
detected: three in acoels [66]; five in xenoturbellids [77]. when the sequences of S. roscoffensis are incorporated
Here, the complexity of the different families (we refer to (compared with the X. bocki’s tree).
the total number of genes per family plus the number of sub- Previous studies carried out by Srivastava et al. [72] in
families present) in these two species is not directly related to H. miamia found five Wnt homologues which were branching
the apparent structural complexity of acoel and Xenoturbella together with one Wnt relative of the cnidarian Hydra vulgaris.
neural architectures. We observed that less complex neural We decided to try including those Wnt protein sequences in
architectures (the nerve net of Xenoturbella) seem to depend our analysis and see how they were placed in relationship to
on richer complements of regulatory and effector genes the Wnt relatives in our acoel species. Our results show that

(within, again, these specific families) than the complex/ all acoel sequences, classifiable or not, present extremely