minimizes the total nerve connection length (taken as a proxy
for total connection costs). This condition constrains the geo-
metry of the network, provided that energy consumption is
efficient. The principle has been thoroughly analysed in the
context of the arrangement of the Caenorhabditis elegans NS
[111]; the rat olfactory cortex and the amygdala [113]; and
the cat sensory and macaque visual cortex [114]. In fact,
Cherniak [111] has shown that in C. elegans (or in H. sapiens),


the brain position (at the front of the body) minimizes total sen- and thus it has been selected for, over evolutionary time, in 11 |

sory /motor connection costs and this is due to the fact that in many independent lineages.
those brains there are more connections to and from the front As with many other adaptive scenarios proposed in the a
than there are to the rear of the animal (accommodating all sen- bibliography, this needs to be checked experimentally. We s
sory information flow). The results can be extrapolated to other propose that testing the hypothesis would be specifically a
systems, where input/output connections to neighbouring interesting (and feasible) in the context of a coherent group = =
sensory structures are most prevalent. An extreme version of of animals (a monophyletic clade) with members showing 5
this optimization model assumes that brains (or complex different degrees of NS centralization and, perhaps most =
neural layouts) can be self-assembled based only on physical importantly, a relatively reduced number of participating =
processes, for free, without the intervention of genomic mech- neurons. Xenacoelomorphs should provide here a useful ‘2
anisms [113]. This, according to the proponents will ‘lower the system to analyse the evolution of neural centralization and
information load on the genome, and also in the process also should provide an experimentally amenable subject to -5
yield optimality’ [113, p. 52]. Interestingly, this proposal test the functional advantages (and constraints) underlying =
might not be so far-fetched in view of some new human the origin of brains. =