in development of sensory structures in vertebrates showed
that genes for the eyes, including the lens evolved first,

(b) Neural crest with peaks for the number of new genes for the retina and
Another structure which the vertebrate brain but has that the eye evolving in deuterostomes and for the lens in cephalo-
amphioxus CNS lacks is neural crest—cells that migrate from chordates [53]. By contrast, the peak appearances of new
the neural plate boundary and give rise to numerous cell genes for the olfactory system, ear and lateral line as well
types including pigment cells, cells of the adrenal medulla as that for cranial placodes occur in tunicates while those
and cartilage and bone [43]. By contrast, in amphioxus, the for neural crest, adenohypophysis and trigeminal placode
ectoderm adjacent to the neural plate on either side migrates and ganglion are in vertebrates; however, a minor peak for
over it as a sheet, with the leading edge cells displaying the adenohypophysis occurs with the chordates [53]. When
lamellipodia (figure 1) [33]. These leading edge cells express this type of analysis was applied to the brain regions, genes
Distalless like neural crest cells. In fact, the genes that specify for the whole brain, forebrain (including diencephalon and
the neural plate and the neural plate border are highly con- telencephalon), midbrain and hindbrain made their peak
served between amphioxus and vertebrates [44]. However, appearance in amphioxus, although there were minor peaks
the genes that specify neural crest are not similarly expressed for all but the midbrain genes at the base of the metazoan
in amphioxus and vertebrates. Notable among them is FoxD3, and in the vertebrates (figure 3) [1]. However, when the tele-
which is vital for neural crest migration. Of the five vertebrate cephalon was divided into dorsal and ventral regions, a peak
FoxD genes, only FoxD3 is expressed in neural crest for the genes of the ventral telencephalon occurred in
(figure 2). Amphioxus has a single FoxD gene, which is amphioxus, but the peak for the dorsal telencephalon was
expressed in mesodermal tissues and the anterior neural in the vertebrates. There were less pronounced peaks for
tube, but not at the edges of the neural plate [47]. Regulatory the ventral telencephalon in agnathans and euteoleosts.
DNA was identified that directed expression of a reporter When the midbrain was subdivided, there was a striking
gene to all the domains that normally expressed amphioxus peak for the MHB in amphioxus and a minor peak in
FoxD [48]. While this regulatory DNA directed expression agnathans, while the tegmentum had dual peaks in