extrinsic trigger; the nature of the traits themselves points to deuterostome central nervous systems are homologous, rather | 8 |

predation as that trigger. The origin of skeletons, for instance, than convergent [95—97,105,106]. Here the timing of events can
almost certainly took place independently in several phyla perhaps provide insight: nervous system features that evolved a
rather than in their common ancestor, based on the very differ- during the second phase were independent events since the s
ent ways that skeletons are produced and on their diverse protostome—deuterostome divergence had already taken a
chemical compositions. It seems implausible that animals as place. These later innovations may well have built in paralle 2.
different as brachiopods, echinoderms and trilobites (to name ways upon an existing infrastructure of neural components 5
just a few) would have needed mineralized skeletons at the and organization, making it challenging to disentangle the =
same moment for intrinsic reasons. imprint of shared ancestry from convergence. Indeed, simi- =
Similarly, more sophisticated sensory and central nervous larities in the central nervous systems of extant phyla likely ‘S
systems would have been needed for both predation and comprise a complex mix of shared and independently derived ©
predator avoidance. Image-forming eyes and motion-detecting features. Despite the fact that these two feature sets evolved = -5
organs such as sensillae and antennae provide enormous hundreds of millions of years apart, the intense functiona =
advantages in locating and capturing prey, and these same demands of the ecological revolution during the Cambrian S
sense organs are also valuable for predator avoidance. These makes distinguishing them a challenge. -
sophisticated sense organs evolved on many independent 2
occasions during the Cambrian, and at about the same time S
as skeletons. Image-forming eyes, for instance, incorporated 12. Forecast: clou dy then clearin g w
pre-existing photoreceptors but clearly evolved independently S
in arthropods, cephalopod molluscs and vertebrates. The enor- Nearly 70 years after the publication of Cloud’s influential = 5
mous input of sensory information from image-forming eyes article [14], the question of when metaozans evolved remains 3
and from sensitive antennae and fields of sensillae would only partially answered. Taken at face value, the variety of = &
have required the simultaneous expansion of input-processing age estimates from molecular clock studies might suggest a
systems, likely within a brain or multiple ganglia. Effector sys- methodology that is hopelessly inaccurate. This conclusion