might have evolved convergently to its eukaryotic equivalent [140,141]).

Box 2. Specialized calcium-controlled contractile systems.

In some eukaryotic lineages, the ancestral actomyosin system was complemented or replaced by other, more taxonomically
restricted contractile modules that allowed even faster contractions. These are instrumental, for example, in escape response.
Notably, in all known cases, control by calcium appears to have been retained. For example, many unicellular green algae,
such as Platymonas, display a calcium-sensitive contractile protein, called centrin, as part of their striated ciliary rootlet,
which, upon membrane depolarization and calcium influx, drives local membrane bending and flagellum protrusion/retrac-
tion [153-156]. In Alveolata (a group which includes ciliates and dinoflagellates), the centrin-based system is hugely
expanded into a cell-wide contractile apparatus, which is able to drive contraction of the entire cell in some ciliates (like Para-
mecium or Stentor), or of large specialized cellular structures—such as the piston of the dinoflagellate Erythropsidinium [157],
or the stalk of the ciliate Vorticella [158] which quickly retracts upon mechanical or photic stimulation. In fact, centrin has been
discovered independently as part of the contractile apparatus of Vorticella, the spasmoneme, and given the name spasmin
[34,159-166]. Another mechanism for excitation- and calcium-dependent fast retraction evolved convergently in the rhizarian
Actinocoryne and is mediated by catastrophic disassembly of microtubules [167-172]. Both the centrin/spasmin system and
the microtubule disassembly-based systems allow faster contractions during escape response than actomyosin. Both of these
new mechanisms retained dependency on calcium, which might have facilitated continuous and stepwise complementation,
and ultimately replacement, of actomyosin systems by these specialized mechanisms.

HCN families and another led to the emergence of the Trp members were permeant to both sodium and calcium, and
channels, a family of mostly thermo- or mechanosensitive full specificity to sodium only evolved in bilaterians and in
and calcium-permeant channels. Importantly, Trp channels medusozoans, probably in line with more active lifestyles and
represent the sister clade to the voltage-gated sodium and faster movements [145].
