of neurons in ctenophores p- 1328]. The details supporting the monophyletic hypothesis
Although earlier phylogenomic papers did not discuss the were not provided.
evolution of nervous systems [45,46], the position of cteno- By contrast, the systematic analysis of the Pleurobrachia
phores as a sister group to all other animals implies two genome and 10 other ctenophore transcriptomes, as well as
possible scenarios of neuronal origin: polygenesis or a single- extensive biochemical and functional studies, leads to a com-
origin (figure 2, left and right trees, respectively). It should pletely opposite conclusion: neural systems evolved more
be noted that both scenarios are also compatible with the two than once [28,65] (figures 1 and 5). We think that the hypoth-
alternative hypotheses of the early animal phylogeny, in esis proposed by Ryan et al. [55] and Rokas [64] of the
which either Ctenophora is the sister group to all Metazoa secondary loss of neural systems in sponges and placozoans
(figure 1) or Porifera is the sister to all other animals (see details is a very unlikely scenario for several reasons.
in [14]). First, it is based on misinterpretations of the utilization of
I. The single origin hypothesis is consistent with the canonical some individual genes as pan-neuronal or pan-synaptic mar-
and still most commonly accepted view of a single origin of kers, which is not accurate [40,66]. In fact, none of the ‘lines of
neurons. Neuronal evolution was not analysed in the original evidence’ or genes that are specifically reported as factors
Mnemiopsis genome manuscript [55]. However, in that study ‘uniting the nervous systems of ctenophores, cnidarians and
and a companion paper, it was proposed that the common bilaterians’ can be used as universal neuronal markers (see
ancestor of all animals had a nervous system, but that sponges detailed discussions in [40,66]; electronic supplementary
and placozoans had lost their neurons [63]. ‘It appears that material, table S1 and in the next paragraph). For the hypoth-

much of the genetic machinery necessary for a nervous esis of a ‘single origin of neurons’ to be valid, a cohort of


(a) Capsaspora Monosiga —_Pleurobrachia. ~~ Mnemiopsis. — Amphimedon —‘Trichoplax. Nematostella — Homo
glutamic acid decarboxylase 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2
vesicular glutamate transporter 0 0 0 0 0 1 6 3