and the brain of Drosophila is tripartite as well, subdivided terior distribution of the somata [143]. Depending on the
into proto-, deuto- and tritocerebrum [126]. Fuelled by the internal relationships of the Scalidophora, which currently
results of the functional equivalence of mouse and fly otx, remains unresolved, either the closed—or ventrally open—
emx and en, which can at least partly rescue loss of function ring-like brain is part of the ground pattern of the group.
experiments [27,127,128], the morphological tripartite brain The two clades of the Nematoida, the Nematoda and
has been assigned to the last common ancestor of proto- Nematomorpha, differ in their brain anatomy (figure 3).
stomes and deuterostomes [18]. However, functional While the brain of nematodes forms a compact, ring-shaped
equivalence experiments are not very informative for the neuropil [140,144] and is thus similar to that of the scalido-
reconstruction of ancestral brain morphologies since they phoran groups, the nematomorphs show only a small
address the level of the interaction of genes inside the net- anterior condensation so it is unclear if it is an extension of
work. For example, the emx orthologue of Caenorhabditis the nerve cord or a separate unit [145,146].
elegans, ceh-2, is able to partly rescue the Drosophila mutant, The successive branching of clades that possess a
despite the fact that nematodes themselves do not possess a ring-shaped, non-partitioned brain—the Scalidophora and
tripartite brain [129]. Nematoda—implies that this type of brain was present in the

In this scenario of deep homology of tripartite brains, last common ancestor of the Ecdysozoa and provided the start-
divergent brain structures, such as commissural, ring- ing point for modifications that led to the more complex,
shaped, mono-, di-partite brains, which are present in most partitioned brains of the Panarthropoda (figure 3). If this new
other animal groups [1,45,46], are interpreted as multiple topology of the Ecdysozoa is correct, then the presence of the
cases of loss or reduction [18]. The scarcity of molecular infor- non-partitioned, ring-shaped, circumoral brain in the ecdy-
mation about brain development of taxa that lack a tripartite sozoan ground plan rejects the hypothesis of the homology
brain makes it currently difficult to test the hypotheses from a of the morphologically tripartite brain of arthropods and
molecular perspective (see Martin-Duran et al. [130]). In order chordates [18,20,147]. Additionally, in the Panarthropoda,
to investigate the deep bilaterian ancestry of the tripartite the arthropod outgroups—Tardigrada and Onychophora—
brain, we have to test hypotheses of homology at the level render the structure of the tripartite brain of vertebrates and