
Although visually salient differences between the human beliefs [42,45] and bottom-up kinematic information [27] also
and robot avatar are apparent, the AON did not respond to shape social cognition when perceiving and interacting with
this difference in the present study. An exploratory analysis others [67,68]. Our data help to redress the balance of how
of each stimulus form compared independently to an implicit much weight the AON assigns to self—other similarities on a
baseline revealed that observing the human or robot agent in form-based, visual level. Future research investigating percep-
isolation resulted in widespread, robust engagement of bilat- tion of human animacy may explore which social brain
eral AON, fusiform and occipitotemporal brain regions. The mechanisms are specifically tuned to respond to the extent to
results of these simple contrasts help to rule out the possi- which a stimulus is perceived as being ‘like me’, and what
bility that the lack of findings in the human > robot other complementary mechanisms might be at play [69,70].
contrast are due to a peculiarity of the human stimuli not Returning to the ‘like-me’ account of social cognition, the cur-
engaging such brain networks on their own. The present rent findings contribute to this view by demonstrating that
findings could possibly be due to the fact that both agents social brain circuits may be tuned to detect human animacy
executed the identical goal-directed actions (cf. [30,31]) or based on knowledge cues that signal an agent to be ‘like me’.
because the robot and human forms shared some features While we fail to find behavioural or imaging evidence

(i.e. a head atop a torso with two arms). Even though the demonstrating that visual cues to humanness influence


social perception, it should be noted that exploratory further
analysis of the human > robot form contrast (evaluated at
p < 0.01, k= 10 voxels) revealed activity within the right tem-
poroparietal junction, centred on coordinates x = 51, y = —37,
z= 27. While this finding provides weak evidence that brain
structures implicated in social cognition [59] might indeed be