processing of, the pain stimuli, or increased ability to withhold a ing, thus being less able to control the affective response to


the other’s pain and hence showing higher corticospinal excit- computations on different inputs (and with different outputs)

ability, compared with the increased self—other control group. as a product of their distinct anatomical connectivity [58] (see
Sensorimotor training similar to that used in the present [59] for a comparable example of two adjacent brain areas
experiments has also been used to demonstrate the effects of implementing the same computational process on different
experience on ‘mirror’ responses to others’ actions ([53,57]; see inputs as a function of each area’s anatomical connectivity).
[6] for a review). Sensorimotor experience can build new associ- However, it will be important for future research to follow-
ations between sensory and motor representations: for example, up the current results by testing whether the neural networks
typical social experience often produces ‘mirror’ associations— underlying self—other control training can be specifically iso-
that is, associations between sensory and motor representations lated to TPJ or supramarginal gyrus, or whether in fact both
corresponding to the same action. After such associations are areas are affected by this type of training.
formed, however, training to increase self—other control has The current results suggest that the control of neural rep-
two distinct effects on social cognition. It not only produces resentations of the self and other is an ability that is crucial
new ‘counter-mirror’ associations, but also improves the ability for many types of social interaction, and also pave the way
to control self- and other-relevant representations, by training for the use of behavioural interventions to improve cognition
the participant to inhibit the automatic activation of other- across multiple social domains.
relevant representations (resulting from the presence of an
initial mirror association). We suggest, therefore, that training Ethics. For both experiments, written informed consent was obtained prior
to increase self—other control will only be effective where to taking part according to the Declaration of Helsinki and participants
other-relevant representations are already associated with were paid a small honorarium for their time. Experimental procedures

one’s own representations of those attributes. were approved by the University of Surrey Ethics Committee.