strongly for resources because of the benefits they gain by male departure allows females to recoup the costs of care

ceding resources to those who do invest. In the context of by feeding from the carcass themselves, whereas the presence

biparental care, for instance, our simple model suggests the of a male throughout the breeding attempt prevents this, per-

possibility of an equilibrium at which only one parent haps through competition for food. Furthermore, they cite a

cares, but at which the other refrains from competition (or previous study showing that male desertion occurred =
competes less strongly) in order that the caring parent has sooner on smaller carcasses [32], matching our model’s “2
sufficient resources to invest substantially in the young. prediction that joint investment in care is stable when ‘©
What is striking about this kind of outcome is that the resources are abundant, but breaks down when less is avail- — -s
caring parent may enjoy greater personal fitness gains than able. The fact that burying beetles rely on a limited food =
the non-caring parent. Classical models of parental care supply, the carcass on which both parents and offspring feed, =
have explored under what circumstances biparental care may mean that resource competition is particularly pro- -
can break down and one parent be left to care for the nounced in this case. It is not clear, therefore, whether such 2
young alone [28-30], but they have generally done so clear-cut benefits of desertion are likely to be common in S
under the assumption that each parent stands to gain by leav- other species with different forms of care. However, we suggest w
ing, and that the individual that remains does so because he that expanding the focus of studies to consider the benefitsas =
or she has been caught in a ‘cruel bind’. Departure, in other well as the costs of ‘abandoning’ offspring may offer new ©
words, is interpreted as the ‘selfish’ or ‘exploitative’ option. insights into the evolution of parental care more generally. 3
By contrast, when resource competition is taken into account, ES

the model suggests that departure may actually be of benefit
to the caring parent, because it frees up resources for the