shows how the mean degree (i.e. mean number of neighbours) of individuals changes as a function of the population variation illustrated by the histograms
under the x-axis for different preference curves, given by panels on the left. A preference curve gives the probability of interaction between a pair of individuals
as a function of their difference. Network plots are representative examples of a group drawn randomly from the population with the given variation above the plot
and the preference rule given left to the plot. (Online version in colour.)

comprehensive review, and there are many more studies in this partners because they are all the same. On the other hand, it
wide topic that could have been cited. may pay off to be choosy in a variable population because,
for instance, it can be worth leaving a below-average partner
as there is a good chance of finding a better one [21]. Individual

2. Variation differences may also facilitate task specialization.
The magnitude of life’s immense variability is well illustrated Partner choice and inter-individual variation can deter-
by the fact that taxonomists sort living creatures into millions mine an individual’s social environment. To illustrate this
of species mainly on the basis of their morphology alone [12]. possibility, I develop a toy example of network formation
Variation, however, is not restricted to morphology. Species (figure 1). I assume that individuals differ in a quantitative
are characterized by a multitude of life histories, physiologi- trait but they follow the same rule to choose interaction part-
cal processes and behaviours. Variation also goes beyond the ners. The rule gives the probability of interaction between
level of species: individuals of the same species, even if they two individuals as the function of the difference between
are of the same sex, age and size, can be different [13]. Mor- their trait values. Based on these assumptions, an adjacency
phological polymorphisms within species, such as wing matrix can be constructed for a given rule and a given distri-
dimorphism and weaponry variability in insects, or plumage bution of the trait in the population. This then allows me to
polymorphisms in birds such as the ruff (Philomachus plot the interaction network between individuals. Compu-
pugnax), have been recognized for a long time [14-16]. tations show that changing the variance of the trait in the
Recent studies have also found consistent behavioural differ- population can dramatically alter the structure of the interaction
ences between individuals of the same species, sex, age and network (figure 1). These results are important because they