care for them. Thus, even workers with short lifespans can seri- factors for worker/single foundress is at its lowest and the

ally divide labour and cooperatively rear brood with long productivity of a solitary foundress is at its highest (figure 3).


A long-term field study of 145 pre-emergence nests shows that must admit is that forces other than kin selection must have 5 |

4.6-7.5% of the wasps nested solitarily and 92.5—-95.4% of the been important in moulding the overall social organization

wasps nested in groups [13]. There is thus a remarkable similarity of R. marginata. a
between the predictions of the unified model and the empirical s
data. Even if one does not take the quantitative fit between a
model and data very seriously (and one should not), the fact 10. Nest foundation by unrelated individuals 3
that both the model and the data show that an overwhelming pro- ; . Ss
portion of wasps should and do opt for the worker strategy and As mentioned above, we conducted a long-term field study of =

that only a small proportion of wasps should and do nest solitarily pre-emergence nests in which all adult wasps onallnests were = >

is very satisfying [2]. Clearly, Hamilton’s rule provides a powerful uniquely marked. When an unmarked individual or a wasp = &
framework for understanding the evolution of social and altruistic marked on another nest was seen on any nest, such a wasp
behaviour in R. marginata. Even though I have often complained was termed a ‘joiner’ and the nest on which it was seen was
that most investigators focus excessively or exclusively on r and said to have received a joiner. Of the 676 wasps recorded in &
neglect the b and c terms in Hamilton’s rule, the power of the this study, 217 (32.1%) were joiners and of the 145 nests =>
theory is evident when all three factors are considered, as I have studied, 69 (47.6%) received at least one joiner. Of the 217 join- =
attempted to do for R. marginata ers, 191 were unmarked individuals so that we are not sure im