says that there is no satisfactory way of making social decisions to anticipate future rewards. (ii) To communicate and bargain a
once individuals have sufficiently different preferences. As a efficiently over their rules of interactions, individuals need = 2
result, institutional arrangements that need a high level of con- language and a motivation to seek out information and know- “5
sensus between group members may be inherently unstable ledge, have shared intentionality, and a fully developed theory =
whenever individuals’ endowments and allegiances shift over of mind. (iii) To reach consensus, individuals need a strong =
time, or when there is a turnover of players. Finally, some indi- willingness to seek out mutual opportunities, as well as ‘2
viduals may exert disproportional influence in the political strong inhibitory control. s
game form, driving the creation of rules that favour themselves These abilities are only partially present in other primates. — -5
at the expense of others. The cooperation and coordin- Why is this? After all, other primates have large brains [41]and = ==
ation achieved under the institutional rules needs to provide relatively well-developed cognitive faculties. The answer is that =
sufficient benefits to offset all of these costs, and thus improve many of the traits require at least some degree of prosocial -
on the pay-off from the Hobbesian equilibrium (figure 3). motivations. Prosocial motivations are lacking in extant great 2
Nevertheless, the fact that we see cooperation-promoting insti- apes, from which we can infer that they were also lacking in S
tutions in the real world implies that this condition can in the common ancestor of the great apes and Homo. In the next w
principle be met. section, we present a hypothesis for why prosocial motivations =~
evolved in our lineage, and hence why our lineage evolveda = ©
(d) The uniqueness of institutions in humans social cognition that could later be co-opted for the formation S
of institutions. fo)

We emphasize here the uniquely human genesis of institutional

rules: the explicit and coordinated construction of group-wide

rules that regulate social interactions and that are enforced by
