

on gene dosage indicates male: female ratios of unity for and behaviour: the heterogametic sex produces the hormones

autosomal genes and 0.5 for those quantified from the X- that organize these sex differences [95]. Analyses across
chromosome [92,94], suggesting limited dosage compen- species, particularly now that molecular data can provide a
sation. These data raise the possibility that the presence of a more concrete information on evolutionary relationships, s
Y-chromosome in only males or two X-chromosomes in should prove quite useful in understanding the breadth of a
females might be important for sexual differentiation of struc- this concept. 2.
ture or function. These ideas have yet to be pursued. The type and/or presence of sex chromosomes can pro- = S
vide important clues as to genetic mechanisms, but it is =
identification of specific, critical molecules that will be of =
4. Genetic mechanisms and sex chromosome most use from a biomedical perspective. The fact that the pri- ‘2
. . . mary difference between male and female zebra finches is ‘©
effects in reproductive structure and function their sex chromosomes allows us to identify candidate  -
Steroid hormones play critical roles in reproductive structure genes; for the purposes of elucidating molecular mechanisms, | =
and function in vertebrates. They exert a diverse array of it does not matter that genes of interest are on a sex chromo- =
effects on anatomy and behaviour across the life cycle. How- some in birds and not in humans. Understanding the roles of -
ever, the research on birds and lizards described in §§2 and 3 particular genes, and how they may function in conjunction 2
highlights an array of examples in which responses to steroid with factors, such as the ligand BDNF, will help us to identify S
hormones differ: between the sexes, across seasons and even mechanisms that contribute to development irrespective of w
between tissues within the same organism. In addition, pre- chromosome location. =
dicted opposing effects do not always occur (e.g. increasing Sex chromosome genes have evolved independently mul-  &
E2 masculinizes the female song system, but decreasing E2 tiple times [96], and the avian Z is not homologous to the ©
in males does not inhibit masculinization). Some parallels human X or Y [97]. Sex chromosomes in reptiles, mammals S