duce identical songs [40]. Despite this similarly, volumes of hensively in zebra finches (see [47] for a review). The Ss
the song nuclei exhibit a male-biased sex difference (1.5. identification of cells exhibiting a similar physiological profile =
times larger in males than in females). Interestingly, when in females has been difficult, though administering testoster- =
the authors measured expression levels of the mRNA of a one to female canaries has helped [48]. Plain-tailed wrens ‘2
number of synapse-related proteins in HVC and/or RA (Pheugopedius euophrys) is a species of neotropical oscines ‘©
they found higher expression levels in females (30-70%) that sing duets in which females and males rapidly alternate = -5
than their male counterparts [40]. This suggests that the syllable production, sounding as if a single bird sang it. To =
volume of the song nuclei may indeed be constrained but examine how cooperative duet singing is encoded in telence- =
females can compensate through other variables to attain pahlic circuits, birds were captured in the field in Ecuador -
the same behavioural goal. Similarly in cooperatively breed- and then neurophysiological experiments were performed 2
ing/duetting white-browed sparrow weavers (Plocepasser [49]. The question asked was do males and females respond S
mahali), male-biased sex differences in the volume of the only to their own parts of the song or is something more com- w
song-control system are observed despite the fact that there plicated going on? The surprise was that both females and = =~
are multiple male-types based on intraspecific variation in males exhibited a response profile that was best to the full &
song phenotypes (dominant males sing their own song as duet song relative to other stimuli tested for the majority of |S
well as engaging in duets) and females sing song at a similar units (figure 3). The responses to duet stimuli were not ©
rate and level of complexity as males [41]. In the corvid group simply a sum of responses to female and male syllables,
within the oscines, song is rather unusual and hard to ident- because, in the majority of neurons, response strengths eli-

ify. In any case, males and females tend to exhibit broad cited by duet stimuli were significantly greater than the
similarities in their vocal behaviour and studies of their sum of the response strengths to female and male syllables
neuroanatomy again detect a substantial male-bias in brain presented alone (figure 3). Thus in these duetting wrens
nucleus volume [42]. To date only one oscine species has males and females have neural specializations that allow

been identified in which females sing at a higher rate than them to develop auditory neurons tuned to the joint male