of the rodent brain, then manipulations affecting these neur- neurons project to GnRH neurons in embryonic male and
ons should generate abnormal sexually dimorphic features. female mice [72,73]. Moreover, a male-biased sex difference
In this vein, studies in the hpg mouse have been very insight- in the percentage of GnRH neurons expressing GPR54 is pres-
ful. Livne et al. [57] first demonstrated that the brains of the ent on the day of birth in mice [74]. In addition, studies by
hpg mice are not fully masculinized during the neonatal Kauffman et al. [75] using a global GPR54 knockout mouse
period. The implantation of fetal hypothalamic tissue into demonstrated that the GPR54 is necessary for normal sexual
the brains of male hpg mice was able to support normal differentiation of the male brain and behaviour. Male mice lack-
reproductive behaviours in adulthood only when mice had ing the kisspeptin receptor had a greater number of TH-
been treated with testosterone to masculinize their brains immunoreactive, and Kiss! mRNA expressing cells in the
on postnatal day 2. A similar rescue of male sex behaviour RP3V than wild-type littermates, and had a feminized number
was obtained in hpg mice following testosterone treatment of neurons in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus.
on postnatal day 2 [58]. This absence of sexually differen- Additionally, the sexually differentiated olfactory preference
tiated sex behaviours, and rescue by neonatal testosterone index was feminized in the male mice lacking GPR54. The fact
treatment in hpg mice, provide strong support for GnRH that the sexual differentiation of brain and behaviour was
neurons in the generation of the neonatal testosterone disrupted in mice lacking GPR54 suggests that kisspeptin—
surge. Subsequent studies by Gill et al. [59] have demon- GPR54 signalling plays an important role in this process.
strated that the sexual differentiation of kisspeptin neurons In order to determine if kisspeptin—GPR54 signalling at the
in the rostral periventricular area of the third ventricle GnRH neuron itself was important in driving the neonatal tes-
(RP3V) is disrupted in the hpg mouse (figure 3). Normally, tosterone surge in and sexual differentiation of the brain, we
neonatal testosterone exposure acts to reduce the number of recently generated a mouse model in which GPR54 is deleted
kisspeptin-expressing neurons in the RP3V of the male to only from GnRH neurons [67]. As the GRRH—GPR54 knockout
approximately 10% of that observed in females [60,61]. In mice do not go through puberty and are hypogonadotropic,
the hpg mouse, the number of kisspeptin neurons in the mice were gonadectomized around puberty and post-pubertal
male RP3V is not masculinized, with a greater number of steroid levels were normalized across experimental groups
neurons compared with wild-type (figure 3), resulting in using testosterone. This revealed that the vasopressin inner-