exposure to a high calories /high-fat diet affects stress physiology
and energy balance, respectively, in a permanent way in the

(b) Gene effects that are not hormone-mediated exposed individual, and also in her offspring (see [29] for
The notion of a sexual differentiation that would be indepen- review).
dent of early steroid action largely originated in the analysis These epigenetic effects also extend to the control of
of a single zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) individual that behaviour as illustrated by the elegant work of Michael
was male on the left side and female on the right side, the Meaney and co-workers showing that rat mothers providing
well-known gynadromorphic zebra finch [15]. Genetic mar- poor maternal care will transmit this phenotype to their off-
kers confirmed that this bird had male cells on the right spring via changes in the methylation of a few key genes,
side but female cells on the left side of its brain. Correlatively, including the gene coding for a glucocorticoid receptor in
the volume of its song control nucleus HVC was much larger the hippocampus and the gene of one oestrogen receptor in
on the male than on the female side, despite the fact that both the medial preoptic area [30,31].
sides had obviously been exposed to the same concentrations It was also demonstrated that organizing effects of sex
of circulating sex steroids. Sex differences in birds are, like in steroids on brain and sex behaviour are mediated, to a large
mammals, largely under the control of organizational effects extent, by epigenetic mechanisms. Oestradiol, for example,
of sex steroids, although modalities of these controls differ affects the enzymes that control these epigenetic marks such as
markedly (see [16] for review). The morphological difference DNA methyltransferases and histone deacetylases in the brain
between left- and right-side HVC in the gynandromorphic of neonate rodents, and pharmacological manipulations of
subject indicated, however, that this feature was controlled, these enzymes in neonate rats have been shown to affect very
at least in part, by an action of genes somewhat independent significantly the sexual differentiation of brain and behaviour
from the organizational action of steroids [15]. Some refram- [32-34]. Oestradiol derived from testosterone aromatization in
ing of the original organizational/activation hypothesis was the brain reduces the activity of DNA methyltransferases in
therefore needed. A few studies had already demonstrated the preoptic area in males. This consequently decreases DNA
that some phenotypic sex differences [17,18] and sex differ- methylation in subjects exposed to testosterone (males or testos-