with a low-powered test, we cannot say that the sexes respond inanon-human animal, it must be genetic, shaped by evolution
in the same way to treatment—in so doing we once again slide and free of sociocultural influence. Take, for example, a recent
down the slippery slope [25]. paper by Farmer et al. [104]. The authors showed that in mice,

experiencing pain caused females to spend less time with
males. By contrast, males in pain continued to pursue females.
In their paper, the authors argued that the findings ‘suggest that

5. Communicati ng Sex differences the well-known context sensitivity of the human female libido
What is the best way to plot a sex difference? The most valuable can be explained by evolutionary rather than sociocultural fac-
representations of our data will accurately depict overlap. Plot- tors.’ (p. 5747; italics added). The press release [105], which led
ting the distributions (figure 2; see www.sexdifference.org) with ‘Not tonight honey...’ proved irresistible; the study
allows the reader to assess the effect size. Other options to received worldwide coverage. The fact that it was conducted
depict overlap include graphing confidence intervals using in mice, not humans, was sometimes lost, however. Headlines
error bars or ‘cat’s eye pictures’ [95]. Alternatively, plotting indi- announced, ‘Women’s low sex drive due to biological reaction
vidual data points, for example, in dot plots (figure 3), allows to pain’ [106] and ‘It’s science: why your headache excuse
the reader to see exactly the extent of overlap as well as the per- is actually legit but his isn’t’ [107]. The coverage of this
centages of each sex in the tails of the distributions. Many study shows clearly that animal studies are not immune to
readers, particularly those outside the field, may look only at widespread media attention or potential over-interpretation.
the figures; thus depicting overlap graphically likely pays off Although the authors of a study do not typically write the
even more than adjustments to language in the paper. press release, they are often quoted and may even be given

Once the graphs are made and the paper accepted, some of opportunities to edit. Thoughtful attention, particularly to
the most important work is yet to be done. Publication of news- how the work will be interpreted by the public, is important
worthy results is generally accompanied by a press release, in at this stage. The press release should be regarded as a ‘point