more pronounced in males than in females. Future research adrenal axis (HPA) are particularly affected by fetal alcohol
should consider sex differences in the developmental aetiol- exposure and have been a primary target of investigation.
ogy or presentation of FASD symptoms as these findings Fetal alcohol exposure affects HPA axis activity throug)
could provide sex-specific criteria for diagnosing FASD as changes in the hypothalamus and brain areas that are func-
early as possible in both males and females. tionally connected to the hypothalamus [91], with the result
Fetal alcohol exposure leads to a number of neural and that HPA tone is increased throughout the lifespan [71],
behavioural disorders that have been extensively documen- though to a greater extent in males than in females. A
ted in the human literature and studied using rodent number of laboratories have found no difference between
models. There is a direct correlation between the amount of males and females exposed to fetal alcohol in the stimulated
alcohol exposure and its negative effects on the brain [81]. release of adrenocorticotropin-releasing hormone [92-94],
In humans, fetal alcohol exposure is known to lower IQ which would suggest that the hypersensitivity to stress that
scores along the entire exposure spectrum, such that on the animals express is the result of altered negative feedbac
average, children who are diagnosed with FAS have the in the brain. In fact, fetal alcohol exposure dysregulates the
lowest IQ. Along with a lower IQ, fetal alcohol exposure ‘stress axis’ by altering gene expression including pituitary
also increases the likelihood of learning deficits in these chil- pro-opiomelanocortin gene transcripts and beta-endorphin
dren [74]. Rodent studies have also demonstrated a strong expression in the brain [77,95,96], both of which are changed
inverse relationship between blood alcohol concentration to a greater extent in males than in females. These effects are
(BAC) of the rat during exposure and weight of the brain at similar in the human literature as well. Female infants (age
birth [82]. These effects are likely the direct result of cell 5-7 months) that had been exposed to fetal alcohol had
death in the brain. Several studies have used various alcohol greater change in heart rate during stress and negative
exposure paradigms in rodents to find that ethanol causes affect while males of the same age previously exposed to
robust cell death in multiple brain regions during the first fetal alcohol had greater increases in cortisol as a result of
week of postnatal life [82-86]. Notably, none of these seminal stress [97]. The mechanism by which the HPA axis is pro-
studies examined alcohol-induced cell death in females. One grammed by fetal alcohol exposure is not fully understood,
