
Figure 1. Learning was assessed during associative learning of the classically conditioned eyeblink response one day after exposure to an acute stressful event.
(a) Females learned better under unstressed conditions. However, the percentage of learned responses across training increased after stress in males but decreased in
females. (b) After masculinization, females did not learn as well as intact females. However, the percentage of learned responses increased in females that were
masculinized at birth with testosterone and exposed to an acute stressor as an adult. Therefore, behavioural responses in masculinized females resembled those
expressed by the intact males shown in (a). Asterisks indicate significant difference between adjacent group data (p < 0.05).

Maren, told me that females did not express LTP or at least on performance variables that are not necessarily indicative of
expressed less potentiation when compared with potentiation learning, but can interfere with the measurement of learning,
in male rodents [6]. This report was astounding to me. After thereby leading to erroneous conclusions about the effects of
all, if LTP were a ‘memory’ mechanism, how could females stress on learning. For example, exposure to laboratory stressors
be left without it (or even less of it)? More astounding to me such as swim stress or tail stimulation often suppresses motor
was the fact that virtually no scientists were testing females activity or motivation to forage for and consume food; therefore,
in their laboratory experiments. Indeed, the only scientists stress can induce deficits in performance simply as a matter of
that I could find who were currently using females in their change in motor activity and motivation. These effects may
laboratories were those invested in behavioural processes of still be interesting and/or relevant but they do not necessarily
animal learning. Females were being used in these studies indicate changes in learning, per se. By using a task like classical
because they tend to learn faster—not necessarily better— eyeblink conditioning, one can rule out some non-specific effects
which is of course important when studying processes of learn- of stress. For example, exposure to the stressor did not alter
ing through performance measures in a laboratory setting. responding to the same stimuli when they were presented one
I was also surprised to learn that many of the early studies after each other but were not predictable across time. We further
reporting oestrogen-induced effects on neurophysiological determined that the stressor had to be sufficiently intense to
responses in the hippocampus were conducted in male rodents enhance learning in males but also had to be uncontrollable—
[7]. After these revelations, I went back to my laboratory to male rats that learned to control the stressor did not express an
study sex differences in learning and their modulation by increase in learning [10,11]. Moreover, the modulation of learn-