tations. Transparent social influence might come from an In the southwest quadrant, fertility is not transparent in
acknowledged village expert in a particular category [31], terms of individual pay-offs or social norms. This is probably
whereas less-intense influence might diffuse among passive uncommon because fertility is so strongly directed by physio-
members of village social networks, who might not neces- logical, economic and social influences. The expectations of this
sarily adopt the behaviour themselves [32]. Among over 20 quadrant, however, can serve as a benchmark to test whether
high-fertility communities in rural Poland, for example, the individual pay-offs of fertility may be becoming less trans-
Colleran et al. [16] found that the low-fertility norms of parent, or, equivalently, ‘noisier’. As a thought experiment,
educated women were learned socially by lesser educated what if a mother decides to have just one child in order to
women within the same social networks who were using the invest more in the child’s education, but by the time the child
more-educated women as models. is of college age most people are receiving free, online degrees?
The two quadrants in the southern half of the map are Could she have had three children instead, to better the chances
less well explored in terms of fertility. In wealthy urban that free education would make at least one of her children
media-saturated societies, however, these quadrants seem wealthy? The fact that this is not a totally far-fetched scenario
increasingly relevant. A potential mother in the modern West, in itself shows that calculating the economic costs and benefits
for example, might read news stories that debate the benefits of children may be becoming less transparent.

of breastfeeding versus bottle feeding. She may see vigorous
debates in the popular media contesting the ‘joys’ of having

children versus the ‘pains’ of raising a child—she might, for (b) Generalized data patterns
example, see bumper stickers on expensive cars that say Bentley et al. [25,33] describe generalized data patterns that
‘DINK’ (dual-income, no kids). This bombardment by the help to locate a phenomenon on the map in figure 1, given
media about the costs and benefits of having children might time-series data on the relative popularities of different
cause enough confusion that transparency is reduced about options. The aim is to extract as much information as possible
the net benefits of having n children as n varies. from patterns, such as the distribution of popularity for a