autonomy in any society pre-demographic transition. In fact,
empirical evidence from high-fertility societies on reproductive
decision-making refutes this [7]. Furthermore, when consider-
ing the strategic interests of individual actors it is difficult to

(c) Institutions affecting female autonomy and fertility:

polyg yny imagine circumstances under which all men have similar repro-
While our models would not predict any difference in fertility ductive agendas, as illustrated in our agent-based model, and
between polygynously and monogamously pair-bonded where gender categories constitute coalitions.
women all else equal, the empirical evidence suggests other- Our models provide additional reasons to be skeptical of
wise. At the individual level, polygynously married women the role of universal male preferences for higher fertility keep-
tend to have lower fertility, but these effects may be driven ing reproductive rates high in pre-transition societies. The fact
by self-selection effects [70]—i.e. women in worse condition that the optimal reproductive pace for men and women, and
become later wives to polygynous men [71,72]. This may help the sex difference in optimal strategies depend on factors that
explain why we see the opposite effect at the group level; poly- vary both between- and within-population suggests the impor-
gynous societies have higher total fertility rates than tance of conditional and flexible strategies. Furthermore, any
monogamous ones [28]. These differences seem to be driven pri- resolution of sexual conflicts that favours male strategies over
marily by the higher demand for women, which reduces the female ones in our models leads to suboptimal fitness out-
number of unmarried women and pushes their age at first comes for females. This can be either because she reproduces
birth down, thus extending women’s reproductive lifespan [73]. more quickly or more slowly than would be optimal for her.

Higher fertility through younger marriage has both fitness Because population growth is usually limited by the abun-
costs and benefits to women. Women who start reproduction dance of females, rather than the availability of males—ie. all
too early tend to experience greater infant mortality risks women can reproduce with a few men—anything that reduces