
2. Rationale for a pp yi ng evo lutiona ry theory to for additional causal factors can substantially alter predictions
“1 . of future population growth.
ow-fertil ity populations

In evolutionary demography, vital rates are phenotypes

Bob Andres (Oak Ridge National Laboratory) and Gregg Marland (Appalachian
State University).

Our primary goal is to encourage skepticism toward the widely that change through time depending on an array of evolu-
held assumption that the fertility transition is irreversible. tionary, ecological, and developmental processes. Thus, an
Doing this, however, highlights the fact that a new set of evolutionarily informed approach to understanding low fertil-
assumptions—or better, an actual predictive theory about the ity would provide information about the link between fertility
evolution of fertility in human populations—are not readily and environmental signals, and then a feedback between
available to supplant the current set of assumptions [6]. On bal- future environments and fertility could be built into population
ance, evolutionary and ecological approaches to population projections. In contrast with the evolutionary demographic
change are under-represented in population projection specif- view, the argument that fertility decline is irreversible rests
ically (but see [22,23]), and in the study of fertility change in on two factors: (i) the wide generality of the trend of fertility
low-fertility contexts generally [24]. Interdisciplinary collabor- reduction across industrialized/modernized societies (i.e.
ation and appreciation of multiple approaches—including there seem to be no exceptions) and (ii) the notion that repro-
evolutionary theory—will be needed to develop alternative ductive behaviour is completely driven by social norms and
population projections in the future [6]. individual preferences that have essentially nothing to do
Ina prominent review article about population projections, with evolution. For instance, Lutz [4] states that ‘through the
Lee [1] noted the lack of guiding theory by saying: ‘Lacking introduction of modern contraception, the evolutionary link