Abihu, whom Yahweh destroyed with devouring fire for infusion of direct fire from God himself. ‘Fire from heaven’
bringing ‘strange fire’—that is, impure fire, probably in the consumed the troubled sacrifice of Manoah, decided the con-
Zoroastrian mode—before the altar [8,12,13]. tested sacrifice at Mount Carmel, accepted the offerings of

The Old Testament is in fact a cauldron of stories, rites, and David at Ornan, and filled the Solomonic temple during its
beliefs simmering over a mix of religious fires. Probably, the dedication with the ‘glory of the Lord’. The threat of punish-
early Hebrews possessed a fire god in their history, as the ment through divine fire—of Israel for its iniquities, and of
Indo-Europeans did Atar. Apparently, like many peoples, Israel’s enemies for their hostility—is so common that it
they carried fire with them. Abraham, for example, brought became ritualistic, evolving into a literary formula that,
fire—not made it—as he prepared for the Moloch-like sacrifice because it quoted so often from Jeremiah, became known as
of Isaac. If so, that fire god vanished. In its place, the Hebrews the jeremiad.
honoured fire as a manifestation of God, not asa god itself. Fire The Bible’s fire tropes have their history. The oldest
is, in fact, as John Laughlin confirms, ‘the oldest symbol with images associated fire with lightning—the smoke, fire and
which Yahweh is associated in the Old Testament’. Many of storm-spewed lightning that descend on Mount Sinai. But
these expressions seem ‘strikingly archaic’ to scholars, part of most fire images derive from landscapes no longer wild.
the Yahwist strata of the Pentateuch: Yahweh sealing the cove- Wilderness fire was already a distant memory, a cultic
nant with Abraham with a ‘smoking fire pot and a flaming cliché. More vivid metaphors, those with the power to
torch’, echoing rites (including Akkadian) in which objects speak to the prophet’s society, came from agriculture and
and persons are purified by passage between theophanic pyrotechnologies—the burning of stubble, old vines and
flames; Yahweh descending Sinai ‘in fire’ and appearing to weed thorns; the assayer’s and refiner’s fires; the fires of fur-
Moses ‘in the flame of fire in the midst of a bush’, another cove- nace and oven; the wasting fires of warfare. Even more
nant sealed with fire and another trope with analogues from abundant are allusions to altar fires and incense. (Even the
Syria, Palestine and Egypt; Yahweh leading his people through pagan Aeneid constantly recounts sacred fires lit, saved and
the wilderness with a pillar of fire; Yahweh repeatedly speak- extinguished, the inevitable accompaniment to any sacrifice
ing to his people ‘from the midst of fire’, a rekindling of the or ceremony.) These are the tropes of urbanites, the fire meta-