processes and protecting the logs somewhat from surface fire occurrence patterns in the pre-1680 period. However,
fires. Hence, we were able to find, sample and reconstruct the expected effect of sample sizes in composite fire scar
unusually long fire scar chronologies from these old speci- chronologies is that fewer fire dates will be recorded overall
mens. Figure 4c,d shows the 1500-2010 CE portion of one with smaller sample sizes, and fewer small fires will be = -
of these sites named ‘East Fork’ (see map in figure 1), and a detected in particular. That is, as sample sizes (and amount ==
more detailed presentation of the individual tree records of area sampled) increase, the odds of detecting more fires =
extending back into the 1300s CE from this site is in the in the sampled fire-scarred trees increases [58,85]. The pattern -
electronic supplementary material, figure S5. observed in the Jemez, however, was the opposite of this 2

Although the Jemez-wide fire chronology (figure 4a,b) and expectation. That is, there were actually more small-fire 5
the Monument Canyon site chronology (electronic supplemen- events (single-tree fire events) recorded in the pre-1680 w
tary material, figure S4) show a general decline in sample sizes versus the post-1680 period (of the same length) despite the =~
prior to 1700 CE, the East Fork site sample size decreases less fading-record problem. This suggests that, in fact, many &
abruptly before this time, with at least 11 trees in the data set small fires did occur during the earlier (pre-1680 period). 3
back to about 1500 CE (figure 4c,d and electronic supplementary Also, as previously noted, the East Fork site contained =
material, figure S5). In addition, fire scars are recorded on four or ancient tree-ring specimens extending well back into the
more trees at the East Fork site back into the 1300s CE. This 1300s CE. Sample sizes here remained relatively robust
chronology shows the same general pattern as the Jemez-wide from the 2000s back to the 1500s, and the same fire occur-
and Monument Canyon chronologies with many small fires rence patterns were observed, i.e. there were frequent small
recorded during the pre-1680 period, but relatively few wide- fires and relatively few widespread fires pre-1680, with
spread fires during this period compared with after 1680 CE more widespread fires after 1680 CE and until the livestock
(table 1). Further, we assessed fire frequency changes over the grazing/fire suppression era. Hence, we are confident that
entire Jemez Mountains, and separately within the Monument this general pattern is genuine, reflecting a high abundance
Canyon and East Fork sites, while also accounting for sample of small fires and reduced widespread fires during the
size effects through time (see supplementary material, figure high-to-medium Jemez population density periods