tained over a period [123,124]; fire traces also appear perhaps less crucial to effective fire use than often assumed. If
regularly at nearby Tabun Cave at about the same time hominins could not ignite fire, however, they would need to be
[125]. In northwest Europe, Beeches Pit, a 400000 year old able to maintain it robustly, and hence probably be reliant on a
interglacial site in eastern England, has various traces of strong social network allowing its replacement [138]. They
fire, suggesting that large hearths were maintained by the would need good knowledge of slow-burning materials,
side of a creek. The traces include burnt bone, shells, combus- although field studies show that animal dung is useful in this
tion features, and most particularly the evidence of a refitting respect. Ignition is often assumed to have required a cognitive
set of flint artefacts [91,92,122]. Of 27 flakes discarded in the advance. Yet the simplest kindling technique of rubbing a stick
process of shaping an intended handaxe, only two became in a groove in a wooden ‘hearth’ requires no more than power
heated and reddened, indicating highly localized burning. and basic skill. It does not seem a more complex process than

Despite the increasing numbers of fire sites, their relative hafting, which it closely resembles in that two component
scarcity is still notable [126], as is the fact that some very major parts require understanding and use of an intermediary:
sites in Europe are totally lacking in fire evidence. These include fixative in the one, and tinder in the other (figure 5).
lower levels at the Caune d’Arago at Tautavel in southern By 120000 years ago, pierced shell beads [141] indicate a
France, where among more than half a million finds of flints knowledge of twine or leather cord, which would have been
and bone there are no burnt traces older than 400000 years necessary for operating a fire drill. Before this date at Pinnacle
[121]. At a later date, too, there are significant gaps in the fire Point in South Africa, stone was being warmed to improve its
representation in Mousterian sites [127]. By contrast, at approxi- working qualities [142]. Such finds are a further early indi-
mately 300000 years ago, Vertesszollos in Hungary, Terra cation of the use of fire in technological processes: with its
Amata and Menez Dregan in France and Bolomor in Spain need for fuelling and maintenance domestic fire becomes
show frequent evidence of fire [121,128-131], continued in a firm stimulus towards division of labour, planning and
Spain on later Neanderthal sites such as Abric Romani [132]. focusing of attention [17].

It has been argued a number of times that fire management From this point, fire use can be seen as almost universal,