packing density in birds, because their neurons are even smal- and large animals large brains in absolute terms, and the w
ler, then large-brained corvids and parrots might have around reason for this is that brain size is determined roughly 90% = =~
200 million MNP neurons. In addition, it could well be that by body size. Whales/dolphins and elephants have the lar- 5
owing to an extremely high neuronal packing density, the gest brains, with weights up to 10kg; the human brain, &
IPC of these animals is considerably higher than that of with an average weight of 1.35kg, is of moderately large SS
monkeys, particularly because the metabolism of birds is size. At the same time, brain size relative to body size tends
higher. However, these speculations must be tested by detailed to decrease with an increase in body size, resulting in the
empirical—experimental studies. fact that small animals have relatively large and large animals
Songbirds, hummingbirds and psittacids exhibit vocal relatively small brains. In shrews, brains comprise 10% or
learning, which among mammals is found in bats, elephants, more of body volume, while in the largest mammal (and
whales and humans. Thus, vocal learning appears to have extant animal), the blue whale, the brain occupies less than
evolved independently in groups of birds and mammals [55]. 0.01% of the body. In this context, the 2% for the human
The members of the mentioned avian taxa are known to natu- brain is very high given the fact that Homo sapiens belongs
rally produce sequences of sounds with signs of ‘phonological to the larger mammals. This becomes evident when we calcu-
syntax’, while it is a matter of debate to which degree non- late the EQ or residuals of brain—body regression, which, for
human vocal learners exhibit signs of ‘semantical syntax’ a given taxon, indicates how much the actual brain size of a
[56]. It is also debated to what degree non-human primates species deviates from the average BBR in this taxon. It turns
(e.g. gibbons) can be regarded vocal learners (cf. [23]). Recently, out that humans have a brain that is roughly eight times
Jarvis and collaborators gave evidence that in songbirds and larger than expected from average mammalian BBR, closely
humans very similar networks of cortical—pallial and striatal followed by some dolphins, which have a fivefold larger
regions related to vocal learning have evolved, including brain than expected.
Broca- and Wernicke-like language centres (cf. [57]). There is no clear correlation between absolute or relative

brain size and intelligence. Assuming that absolute brain size
is decisive for intelligence, then whales or elephants should