as well as woodpeckers), gulls (suborder Lari) and raptors

Figure 4. Feeding innovations in Carib grackles in Barbados. (a) Dunking dog
pellets in water at the Bellairs Research Institute. (b) Stealing a pellet from a
dunking bird. (c) Eating fish remains at the Payne’s Bay fish market.

(Falconiformes and Accipitriformes) show high innovation fre- database in the way they do in all other parts of the world
quencies (figure 1a). Caracaras are the species group with [19] and rank 12th and 9th, respectively, in terms of innova-
the highest number of innovations, 18, the genus Milvago tion frequency and phylogenetically corrected residual rate in
(eight innovations) and Caracara plancus (seven innovations) the Neotropics. The two dietary categories that are the source
providing the largest share (see the electronic supplementary of many innovations in other parts of the world, predation
material, table S1). As is the case in other innovation data- and carrion feeding, seem to be rare in South American Cor-
bases [19], shorebirds (suborders Scolopaci and Charadrii) vids [21]. Instead, Lopes et al. [21] highlight the fact that two
and doves (Columbiformes) show low innovation frequencies. Thraupid species show corvid-like ingestion of meat remains
Ratites and Galloanserae also show either zero or very low on cattle skin drying in the sun.
innovation rates: ducks and landfowl are absent from At the level of families within nine-primaried oscines,
figure 1 because they show no innovations, while the greater Thraupidae rank first with 56% of the innovations in the clade
thea registers the only known ratite innovation worldwide, (41 of 71; figure 2a). Icteridae (grackles, cowbirds and allies)
with the presence of fish in faeces supporting an observation rank second on both the left and right part of figure 2. Within
of consumption of fish at the margins of a reservoir [20]. Thraupidae, the subfamily Coeribinae ranks highest in terms of
Several passerine clades show high innovation rates, in innovation frequency (16, figure 3a), but falls behind other sub-
particular the sub-oscine infraorders Tyrannida and Furnarida. families when research effort, elevated by the many studies on

Surprisingly, corvids (Corvoidea) do not dominate the Darwin’s finches, is factored in with the PGLS (figure 3b). As in
