hook-innovation task. ner). However, their further finding that both those with low
One concern is that our samples of children were relatively and high (relative to mid) IQ showed more conformity bias
small. However, in both studies there were sufficient children suggested perhaps that high IQ individuals are selective in
to find significant correlations between other measures. Fur- when they use social information. High IQ individuals may be
thermore, there was no hint of any relationship between our using both innovation and social learning (see Reader [54] for
innovation measure and the divergent thinking and executive evidence that innovation and social learning are related). Despite
measures we used. Although we are cautious in our interpret- this, the Muthukrishna et al. [53] study raises the same question
ation of a lack of relations, our results suggest that a simple as our own: is it general IQ that supports social learning in their
explanation for children’s difficulty in innovating that impli- case or innovation in ours, or is the IQ measure (Raven's matrices
cates divergent thinking or executive function is unlikely to in Muthukrishna et al. [53] and BPVS in our study) reflecting
be correct. Studies with larger sample sizes would confirm another specific cognitive measure?
our preliminary claims, but we also believe that care should The idea that a relationship between innovation and gen-
be taken before embarking on a large individual differences eral IQ is in fact masking a more specific relationship would
study of innovation in young children, given the lack of mean that there is another personal characteristic that we
relations with specific personal characteristics that we found have yet to identify. This would be a rather unsatisfactory
in our two studies. conclusion to this paper, but perhaps we can suggest some
One measure did predict innovation success: children likely candidates. We predicted that divergent thinking and
who successfully made a hook in Study 2 scored more executive functions would relate to the emergence of inno-
highly on the BPVS, a measure of receptive vocabulary. It vation. Yet, it may be that a different cognitive process is
seems unlikely that the problem-solving aspect of the inno- related to innovation (that also relates to general IQ). One
vation task makes specific demands on language ability as possibility is that children’s analogical reasoning, their ability
it is a largely non-verbal task. Yet, one possibility is that chil- to identify similarities between problems and bring relevant

dren with better comprehension (assumed to be related to information to bear, might be at the heart of innovation
