traits) [132]. Openness consistently predicted several measures [137], and IQ is a weaker predictor of performance
measures of creativity, effect sizes ranging from B = 0.25 to for jobs that do not require the skills measured by IQ
0.66, except math-science creativity, which may require tests. Moreover, we would predict that IQ tests would be less
more domain knowledge. Nevertheless, to illustrate our predictive of performance in locally valued domains in
point about specialized psychological abilities, we will non-industrialized settings, such as many small-scale societies.
address the common assumption that IQ leads to innovative IQ measures appear to be heritable, but among lower SES,
ideas by showing how the collective brain can increase the IQ heritability is lower—though this finding is inconsistent. The
of cultural brains. collective brain would predict that IQ is most consistent from
In a recent review, Nisbett et al. [133] suggest that there generation to generation when children have a similar prob-
are still many unknowns and much controversy surrounding ability of acquiring as much adaptive knowledge as their
IQ data, let alone its interpretation. Based on Nisbett et al. parents. This is highly variable, but most stable among
[133], but avoiding interpretations and explanations, here those with high SES. In contrast, there is more variability
are a few stylized facts regarding IQ (by ‘IQ’ we mean what- (and therefore more potential predictors) among those with
ever it is that IQ tests measure). low SES. If exposure to knowledge affects IQ, then this is
not surprising. Nor is it surprising that deliberate attempts
— IQisa good predictor of school and work performance, at to transmit information (formal education) improve IQ, as
least in WEIRD societies. do deliberate attempts to improve thinking itself (such as
— IQ differs in predictive power and is the least predictive of memory techniques). These effects can be large.
performance on tasks that demand low cognitive skill Brinch & Galloway [138] measured the effect on IQ of a
(jobs were classified based on ‘information processing’, Norwegian education reform that increased compulsory
see [134]). schooling from 7 to 9 years. Their analyses of this natural
— IQ may be separable into crystallized and fluid intelli- experiment estimated an increase of 3.7 IQ points per
gence. Crystalized intelligence refers to knowledge that additional year of education. Because this change only
is drawn on to solve problems and fluid intelligence affected adolescent education, it is likely underestimating
refers to an ability to solve novel problems and to learn. the overall effect of education on IQ. In another potential