social group size, conflict with previous analyses that found tively expressed in innovative behaviour, we suggest (iii) that
no relation between social group size and total innovation technical innovation and brain size coevolved in certain taxa,

rate or social learning rate [18,66]. This could reflect the effect with each driving enhancements in the other. In addition,


while it is likely that technical innovation is more cognitively which there are multiple drivers of the evolution of the pri- El

complex than non-technical innovation, a suggestion that our mate brain and intelligence that feed back on each other in
findings may appear to support, there are reasons to be cau- complex, nonlinear ways. It would seem that innovativeness a
tious in drawing this conclusion as technical innovations may in primates, like intelligence and cognition more generally, is s
differ from other innovations in ways other than tool use. not to be explained by a single prime mover, but rather by a a
Given the fact that both brains and innovations can per- complex of factors that encompass technical, social and = 2
form many functions, a complete analysis would require ecological intelligence. 3
numerous interacting variables to be investigated. Moreover,
it remains an open question as to whether innovation is a Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this article are available via =
driving causal factor in our evolutionary analyses, or whether the Dryad repository: doi:10.5061/dryad.dk10k. $s
the innovations observed in our survey are simply the by- Authors’ contributions. A.F.N. and S.MLR. compiled the data; AF.N., AW. = ‘&
products of broader psychological processes. Reports of tech- and S.E.S. analysed the data; A.F.N., S.M.R. and K.N.L. took the lead >
nical innovation are relatively sparsely distributed across the in writing the article, with contributions from A.W. and SES. All | =
primates, and close relatives often differ considerably in inno- authors gave final approval for Publication. =
Competing interests. We have no competing interests. a

vation rates. This could reflect the difficulty in gathering a ; .
hensi 1 f . . . b 1 Funding. Research supported in part by a John Templeton Foundation 7