
preservational biases of the fossil record are exacerbated when sign ificance

variations through space and time require analytical attention. While most deep-time studies on biodiversity dynamics focus
In this volume, Silvestro et al. [97] develop flexible new on counting taxa (however defined), such counts have limited
dispersal-extinction approaches that use fossil data to infer ability to indicate ecosystem functioning [105]. Phenotypic
macroevolutionary and biogeographic processes while taking traits provide this ecosystem functioning and determine the
into account the incompleteness (temporal and spatial) of the ecological redundancy of given species within a community
fossil record [98,99]. The impact of migration is not symmetric [106]. Experimental studies indicate that initial species
[97,100], implying a role for biotic interactions among already losses have relatively little impact on the healthy functioning
existing species and the new invaders in determining macroevo- of the ecosystem, but that increasing drops in species richness
lutionary fates. A major problem with most methods that use provoke increasing declines of functioning through nonlinear
extant data only is the fact that ancestral geographical ranges feedbacks [107]. The limitations of taxon counts as a coarse
inferred from phylogenies might be blind to local past extinction presence/absence metric for inferring the link between
and temporal changes in the asymmetry of dispersal rates. Silves- organism and its environment have long been acknowledged,
tro et al. [97] applied their method to a genus-level empirical as have those of simply measuring abundance. ‘It is time we
dataset of Cenozoic terrestrial plants. Their empirical results stopped simply counting taxa and tracking their numbers
suggest a predominant dispersal from Eurasia to North America over time, and began looking at them, measuring them and
in the Eocene climatic cooling period, but a higher dispersal from estimating their ecological roles’ [108, p. 340]. Mass extinction
North America to Eurasia during the more stable climatic period events generate high levels of species extinction, but might
between 32 and 14 Ma. The most recent 10 Myr are characterized slightly reduce [109] or fundamentally change [110] ecologi-
by a more symmetric dispersal between both continents, and cal functioning in the clade. More informative dimensions
higher extinction rates in Eurasia. exist and better describe the state of a given assemblage or

Empirical studies focus increasingly on geographical range community [94,105,111].