as evidence for a limit on diversity. In island biogeography there are now an increasing number of species-level studies =
theory, the equilibrial diversity can be described as the balance which also show diversity-dependent rates of origination -
between the immigration and speciation rate and extinction and/or extinction [15,16,22]. These recent species-level 2
rate, where these rates depend on island area and distance studies are particularly relevant for the ‘bound versus S
and nature of the species source pool. Key to theory of island unbound diversification’ debate, given that this is the taxo- w
biogeography is the notion that as species richness increases nomic level typically used in phylogenetic and ecological =~
in an island (ecosystem), immigration and speciation rates studies. Lastly, studies at the level of local assemblages typi- ©
decrease and extinction rates increase, in accordance with the cally suggest that variation in species richness is constrained 3
classic view of a logistic growth. on timescales of approximately 1 to 20 Myr [23] and hence =
This model directly inspired palaeontological analysis of can also be interpreted as evidence against a model of
biodiversity dynamics in deep time [2-4]. However, there are unbound diversification dynamics [18].
many differences between colonization of islands and the evol- The neontological literature on bound diversification has
ution of the Earth’s biota (putting aside the fact that Sepkoski’s several threads, including the study of adaptive radiations
pioneering work was at the family level), which might render [24] and the use of models that explicitly fit diversity-
the use of simple logistic models in deep time inadequate. dependence dynamics [25,26]. Although most neontological
Moreover, there are differences between palaeontological, phy- evidence for a limit on diversity is indirect, a considerable
logenetic and ecological ways of defining the relevant species number of molecular phylogenies show evidence of decrease
pools, which translate into differences in the extent to which in diversification rates as one proceeds up the phylogeny
these views of biodiversity might be expected to fit a model ([27,28]; but see [29] for alternative possibilities).
of logistic growth, the population growth of a single popu- While there is empirical evidence in the fossil and neonto-
lation in a small, circumscribed, environment (i.e. in a flask). logical records of diversity dependence at play, we should
Here, we compare the assumption of these different domains note that diversity-dependence rates, although necessary, are
and discuss their implications to the debate of bound and not sufficient evidence to demonstrate the existence of a fixed
unbound diversity dynamics. carrying capacity [14,18,30,31]. In fact the results shown by
