
scaling up of the population process leads naturally to the by Cornell [31] in his discussion of regional species pools. a
notion of a time-varying carrying capacity. By only looking at just one lineage, we might wrongly infer
the underlying process governing the diversity dynamics. For

(a) Scaling up population-level logistic growth when example, the regional diversity of clade might be observed in
. . . the fossil record, or inferred from a molecular phylogeny, to
species pools are defined phylogenetically be increasing and thus one might reject the hypothesis that
The phylogenetic perspective assumes that the relevant pool logistic processes are operating. But it might be the case that
of species belong to the clade of interest. However, this deli- the clade is expanding at the expense of an ecologically similar
neation of the species pool may be inappropriate if there are clade, so that collectively they are in fact evolving under simple
ecologically similar species that are not part of the focal logistic growth, for example as appears to be the case for North
monophyletic group—in fact, competitive interaction is not American Cenozoic carnivores [22,49].
necessarily more prevalent among closely related species There are two ways of approaching the ecological delinea-
[46,47]. We see evidence that in deep time, diversity depen- tion of the species pool. The first is simply to identify the
dence might operate between species belonging to different pool regionally, analysing the full set of interacting species
lineages, for example, between different groups of North [31], or at least those that are known. The second is to work
American carnivores [22]. Thus, the appropriate species within a defined guild, the approach used by Hubbell [44] in
pool may very well be a polyphyletic group. his neutral theory of biodiversity. In some cases, analysis of
Given that spatial overlap is required for ecological inter- monophyletic clades might map well onto guilds, but in
action, even if all the ecologically relevant taxa belong to the other cases they might not. A simple way forward would be
same monophyletic group, the assemblage of interacting to simultaneously analyse multiple phylogenetically defined
species may be a geographically delineated paraphyletic species pools (e.g. multiple clades) if one expects the ecological
subset of that monophyletic group. Thus, even in this situ- arena to encompass a larger collection of lineages. One such
ation, uncritical analysis of the whole clade might lead one example is the work of Silvestro et al. [22], which considered