for rPCA2 and rPCA3 than for rPCA1. Assemblages dominated key to this apparently rapid response. In groups with more lim-
by the same ecogroup are strongly clustered in the Recent, but ited dispersal, the spatial and temporal patterns of speciation
not in the Eocene. The randomization test suggests that the and extinction (e.g. [5]) may be more important in structuring
Eocene and Recent rPCA structures are near-significantly diversity gradients.
more different than would be expected by chance (PCAsim = Richness—environment relationships appear to have been
0.87, significance = 0.071). If we further split the data into different in the Early Eocene, but we cannot distinguish
each individual time period, there is a suggestion that the diver- among several possible explanations: poor estimates of
sity structure becomes more similar to the Recent through the environmental variables (suggested by the mismatch between
Eocene (electronic supplementary material, table S2); however, proxies and general circulation models), missing environ-
the Eocene datasets are too small to reliably assess the signifi- mental variables, or a fundamental change in the structure of
cance of these relationships. A consequence of this apparent Eocene diversity (shown by the rPCA results and suggested
change in diversity structure is that, if the drivers of diversity by the extinctions that occur though this time period). How-
in fact control some facet of diversity other than species ever, the similar pattern of high-latitude mismatches when
richness, then observed species richness could be only a second- comparing modelled richness with observed richness, and cli-
ary response: the most commonly used measure of biodiversity mate model output with climate proxy data suggest that
may be an epiphenomenon, albeit an extremely useful one for improved models of high-latitude greenhouse climates may be
making comparisons within the domain where the biodiversity critical to resolving these patterns of biodiversity and climate.

dimensionality is broadly constant.
Data accessibility. Eocene diversity data: NHM databank (http://dx.doi.
org/10.5519/0036305). For more information, see the electronic sup-
plementary material. Recent diversity data available from MARGO:

5 Con fa U sio n http://doi.pangaea.de/10.1594/PANGAEA.841194.
