have focused at the community-level, mainly describing taxo- tion rates of different lineages at particular points in time, ©
nomic turnover over time [28,60]. Only recently have these mainly around our middle time bins. In any case, our mixed =~
palaeontological studies begun to integrate phylogenies [61]. findings of random, clustered and overdispersed PFs of =
In a pioneering study, Raia [15] illustrated the applica- species highlight their individualistic responses to climate =
bility of the community phylogenetics approach [14] and its changes and evolutionary processes assessed here, and per- -
associated metrics to study the change in palaeocommunity haps also to ecological interactions, happening around those 2
phylogenetics. Raia showed, for Eurasian Ice-Age mammal middle time bins. S
communities, that temporal taxonomic replacement is not Evaluating mammal species whose existence extends w
only due to species, but also clade turnover, with an over- across the entire studied time interval further supports the = =~
representation of particular clades around 1 Ma resulting in notion for individualistic responses to the above-mentioned pro- 5
phylogenetic clustering of those communities towards the cesses. Indeed, although these survivor species showed different 3
Recent. Around that time, the full Ice Age was established PF patterns with overdispersed, clustered and even random = 5
and the so-called mammoth steppe had begun to dominate fields, this fact highlights the idiosyncratic nature of species
temperate environments, calling for habitat filtering forcing responses driving their co-occurrence patterns that, in turn,
phylogenetically closed species to thrive in ‘cold’ habitats. seems to be associated with relevant changes in climate and evol-
In our case, when considering all of the species present at utionary processes taking place around the middle time bins.
each time bin, we did not find differences in PF patterns More interestingly, particular PF patterns (e.g. overdispersed
among time bins. Alternatively, when excluding restricted fields) did not seem to be associated with specific characteristics
species and focusing on those with seven or more occur- of species. Carnivore species and herbivore species from differ-
rences, we found a tendency of species towards clustered ent orders (e.g. Artodactyla, Perissodactyla and Proboscidea),
PFs at the middle time bins, including the time around for example, presented overdispersed, clustered or random
which the Ice Age began. PFs with some species, even changing from one pattern to
However, statistical comparisons showed that most another along consecutive time bins. Similarly, species restricted
species tended to present random PFs, whereas most species to particular regions showed all three PF patterns, except for
with significant PFs showed overdispersed PFs—co-occurring North America, where species preferentially exhibited overdis-