The ratio of specimens collected to taxa identified is quite species (figure 8c). The succeeding Okote Member is, interest-
stable in the data but one anomaly stands out: the extremely ingly, an exception in the opposite direction, with an
well-sampled KBS Member at Koobi Fora (1.87—1.53 Ma) unusually high ratio of specimens to species (figure 7). For
has a much lower ratio of specimens to species than do what its worth, the ecometric signal of lowered temperature
other intervals (figure 7). This includes the preceding and and precipitation suggests slightly decreased, rather than
equally well-sampled Upper Burgi Member (2.00—1.87 Ma), increased, productivity during KBS time.
suggesting that sampling intensity alone is not the cause. Figure 8c—d also shows that the KBS is characterized by
This anomaly corresponds to a major turnover event described an exceptionally low number of carnivore and primate speci-
below but apart from the possible increase in temporal or mens and an exceptionally high number of bovid and
spatial variability, there is no indication of a corresponding perissodactyl specimens. The two Members bracketing the
major local climate effect in the ecometrics (figure 6). KBS in time are both quite similar in this regard, despite

A key to the nature of this signal is given by detailed com- the fact that the Okote stands out by its higher specimen/
parison of the sequence of Members of the Koobi Fora species ratio and its higher ecometric estimate of productivity,
Formation during this interval: the Upper Burgi, the KBS possibly suggesting a biotic rather than climatic driver of the
and the Okote (1.53-1.38 Ma). This comparison shows that KBS event.

(i) the low specimen-to-species ratio is restricted to the KBS

Member (figure 7), (ii) as far as can be told, it affects all taxo-

nomic groups, (iii) the KBS Member has a lower temperature (b) Turnover

estimate, owing to a higher mean LOP value, in turn caused The results of the turnover analysis are shown in figure 9.
by an exceptionally high number of bovid and perissodactyl Origination patterns are broadly similar in both sets of taxa,