vious empirical analyses [46,62]. taxa and the estimation of the sampling parameters. We


highlight, however, that the underlying dispersal and extinc- lineages and (ii) the chance of dispersal and extinction of a line-

tion processes are modelled as (and were simulated under) age exclusively depends on its geographical distribution coded
continuous time Markov processes. While the definition of as the presence or absence in discrete areas. The two assump-
time bins to code geographical ranges represents a somewhat tions could be relaxed in future developments of the model.
arbitrary step in setting up a DES analysis, we showed that The first issue can be addressed by introducing rate heterogen-
the use of different binning has limited effects on parameter eity across lineages, for instance, based on the Gamma models
estimation. Large bins (5 Myr) yielded slightly lower accuracy already implemented for nucleotide substitutions [63] and
of dispersal and extinction rates (table 2). This is due to the fossil preservation [39]. The second assumption is linked to
fact that many true dispersal and extinction events are coding geographical ranges as the presence or absence within
likely to become unobserved when geographical ranges are discrete areas and its inherent limitations. This approach inevi-
coded with large bins, as this procedure will lead to frequent tably ignores important factors such as the abundance of a
widespread distributions (figure 1). This is also a likely taxon (e.g. population size) and its distribution within the dis-
reason for the low accuracy in the preservation rates under crete areas, which almost certainly affect the biogeographic
large bins, which is mainly linked with their overestimation. history of a lineage. In case of very well-preserved fossil lineages
In addition, analyses carried out under large bins yielded with many occurrences, the number of occurrences and localities
larger credible intervals in the case of small datasets and low can provide information on the abundance of a species in an
preservation rates (electronic supplementary material, figure area, though such exceptional fossilization potential is often
S5), suggesting substantial levels of uncertainty around the dis- restricted to marine environments [35]. Finally, more detailed
persal and extinction parameters. By contrast, the use of smaller information about the sampling localities of the fossil occur-
bins (between 2.5 and 0.5 Myr) yielded higher levels of accuracy rences within each area, such as their distance from other
indicating that the choice of bin size within this range has little areas, and the models incorporating ecological and climatic pre-