and fragmentary skeleton of a child recovered within sand supraorbital development and wide interorbital breadth. ©
deposits on the top of Taramsa Hill, Egypt [45]. Enough of Although it appears of modern aspect, its large size and 3
the cranial vault is preserved to indicate a modern shape, frontal and upper facial shape discriminate it from recent =<
even before cleaning, but the postcranial skeleton was populations, and the possibly associated humerus and ulna
highly friable and little of it survives. The MSA age of the display a few archaic traits. An edentulous mandible (BC2)
specimen could not be definitively confirmed by direct recovered around the same time is small and more lightly
dating [46]. built and appears assignable to anatomically modern

H. sapiens on size and symphysial morphology. The infant
skeleton BC3 certainly appears to represent H. sapiens, and

(b) Southern Africa has an important association with perforated Conus shells
The Florisbad ‘cranium’ (in fact only the anterior part of a and red pigment [51]. Like BC2, the BC5 partial mandible
skull and face) was found at this open locality in South is small and has a modern symphysial morphology, and its
Africa in 1932, stratified in a long sequence which remained importance has been enhanced by direct ESR dating, providing
poorly dated until 1996, when ESR on an enamel fragment an age estimate of approximately 74 ka [50].

from the human fossil provided an age estimate of approxi-
mately 259 ka [47]. The frontal bone is wide, thick and

relatively receding, and the supraorbital torus is high but (c) East Africa
not strongly projecting, with lateral reduction. The face is The Eliye Springs (ES-11693) cranium was discovered by tourists
incomplete but is certainly very broad in its upper pro- after rapid changes in lake levels at West Turkana, Kenya [52].
portions, with some expression of a canine fossa. In The cranium had suffered anterior erosion, particularly of the
R. Clarke’s reconstruction, it is low relative to its great face, but enough is preserved to reveal an archaic morphology.