are from low in the stratigraphic sequence, the best known must be exercised in interpreting its morphology. Faunal cor-
being a cranium (JI1), a calvaria (JI2) and the mandible of relation places the Rabat specimen in the late middle
a child (JI3) [38]. The cranium is relatively long and low Pleistocene.
with smooth rather than angular contours. It has a strong The Moroccan cave of Dar-es-Soltan II has produced an
continuous supraorbital torus anterior to a somewhat immature calvaria, an adolescent mandible and the anterior
domed frontal, and parallel-sided cranial vault with a part of a skull with associated hemimandible. The anterior
capacity of about 1305cm* [39]. The face is large and vault of DeS5 is high and very large, with a strong but
especially broad in its upper dimensions, with flat angled divided supraorbital torus over a low, broad and flat face,
cheekbones and a broad but low nose, below which is sig- with a low but broad nose. There are indications of a
nificant alveolar prognathism. JI2 is a somewhat larger, canine fossa and of alveolar prognathism. The mandible
more robust and angular calvaria, with a cranial capacity and the preserved posterior dentition are also large, but illus-
of approximately 1400cm* [39]. It has a greater occipital trations are deceptive in indicating the lack of a chin—the
projection and angulation, more modern parietal and frontal symphysial region is in fact broken off. Deciding on how to
shape, but equally strong supraorbital development. classify DeS5 is difficult—it has a rather modern-looking
Although comparisons of midline contours suggest face and frontal bone shape, but both are very large in size,
H. sapiens affinities for both cranial vaults, multivariate as is the supraorbital development. Although previous
studies indicate somewhat closer affinities for JI2 to recent assessments have suggested that it could represent an Aterian
human samples [40,41]. Both display some phenetic resem- intermediate between the MSA-associated Irhoud specimens
blances to early modern specimens such as those from and those of the Iberomaurusian (i.e. local late Upper Palaeo-
Qafzeh, Skhul and Herto, though they lack their upper par- lithic), morphometric analyses place it closer to Jebel Irhoud 1
ietal expansion. In cranial vault (but not facial) form, there and the Qafzeh crania than to the late Pleistocene fossils [36].
is nevertheless an overall resemblance to the Sima fossils The caves of El-Aliya and Témara (Morocco) have produced
and other early Neanderthals. The JI3 immature mandible fragmentary human cranial fossils from MSA/Aterian contexts.
presents a rather contrasting gracile body and large pos- The Aliya material includes a large maxilla and teeth, but
terior teeth, and anteriorly may show incipient chin despite previous assertions, the preserved cheek morphology