and rapid evolutionary turnover, as by 30 ka, only H. sapiens change [54,58], and also to variability in climate [57].
remained. Again, this points to a complex pattern of inter- Others have suggested that the biotic interactions between
action between the appearance and disappearance of new competing lineages provide a better explanation, more in

taxa [54-57]. line with the Red Queen hypothesis [59]. A comparative


approach shows that we can expect a much more complex set brains are associated with most of the other phenotypic | 8 |

of interactions. Ezard et al. [60] looked at what drove specia- traits that form the basis for human behaviour—but that is
tion (FAD) and extinction (LAD) among marine invertebrates not analytically helpful as it may be the case that across evol- a
during the Cenozoic. They considered the effects of age, utionary time there may have been different associations. In s
species diversity, climate, local ecology of the organisms fact, the timing and processes by which the human adaptive a
and geology, as well as the interactive effects of each. They zone evolved, whether as a single transition or several, oras 2
showed that the probability of speciation was most strongly continuous and gradual process, or in bursts, is a major S
influenced by diversity, followed equally by ecology and research issue. Evolutionary genetics is beginning to throw =
climate. The probability of extinction was most strongly some light on these questions; for example, the discovery =
affected by ecology, followed by climate. In short, the that humans and Neanderthals share the derived form of ‘2
higher the level of species richness, the greater the number the FOXP2 gene [68], which may be an indicator of modern ‘©
of species likely to evolve, influenced by local and more speech capacities, would indicate that the transition to = -
global conditions, while extinction tended to be more influ- spoken forms of communication had taken place at the time =
enced by local ecological factors. These broader studies and of their last common ancestor (about 0.45 Ma) [69]. However, =
the emerging complexity of human evolution point the way such inferences are rare, and the primary source of infor- -
to interactions between local and global influences, with vari- mation about phenotypic (morphology and behaviour) 2
able outcomes, something that can be seen in greater detail in changes comes from the palaeoanthropological record. S