similarity to central Mediterranean Uk’37 SSTs than to sediment Site 967 results do not conform to the East African vegetation
reflectivity, 3Dyax and 8Cwax. This supports the assertion that history, but our initial results support this view. Extracting
the Mediterranean region shows increasing high-latitude climate all palaeosol 8'°C values for these same sampled time
influence throughout the Pliocene and Pleistocene [22,52]. How- periods from the Levin & Naoami [2] database indicates there
ever, the similarity of 8'8O,uber and central Mediterranean SSTs is a significant increase in mean values between the 1.68
may suggest that SST variability (in excess of 5-8°C for the ca and 1.8 Ma window (—5.0 + 1.5%0, 1 = 101) and the earlier
1.75 Ma _ interval) increasingly influences Mediterranean 3.0-3.15 Ma window (—7.6 + 1.8%o, 1 = 9; figure 9).
3’O,uer over the Pleistocene [22,52]. There is also great simi- Given the eastern Sahara dust source area provenance for
larity between Site 967 3'8O,uper and the global 3'°O stack, Site 967 and the lack of a significant BC wax change between
further indicating that high-latitude climate change influenced our older and younger intervals, we conclude that the eastern
Mediterranean surface conditions (figure 8). This implies that Sahara may have had a distinctly different vegetation history
Mediterranean surface conditions did not dominantly influence from East Africa, and that the well-known Cy, increase in
precipitation or vegetation changes in the plant wax catchment East Africa was, in fact, restricted to this geographical
area (eastern Sahara) for Site 967, and that precessional monsoo- domain. Our results would suggest that the eastern Sahara
nal climate forcing was the predominant climate signal here. experienced large-amplitude C;-C, vegetation and palaeo-
Our results can only speak to the short intervals that were hydrological cycles with no evidence for a shift to more open
sampled near 3.05 and 1.75 Ma, but they do suggest that or more varied conditions. By contrast, East African localities,
there was little change in the monsoonal palaeohydrological collectively, indicate a marked expansion of C, vegetation
or palaeovegetation response to monsoonal circulation towards more open landscapes between 3 and 2Ma
changes for these two time intervals which bracket the onset [2,9,11,48,106]. Moreover, where detailed, sub-orbital sampling
of NH glaciation after 2.8 Ma [104] as well as the shift toward has been performed for lacustrine intervals (palaeolake

more open, C4-dominanted landscapes in East Africa [2]. Olduvai), palaeovegetation inferences from plant wax 8"°C

