On the other hand, some computer vision algorithms have of visually guided movements, from one set of image-based
abandoned the use of three-dimensional reference frames to cues (or sensory context) to another. Image-based strategies
carry out tasks that, in the past, might have been tackled are ad hoc, unlike a ‘cognitive map’ whose whole purpose is
by building a three-dimensional model. For example, Rav- to be a common resource available to guide many different
Acha, Kohli, Rother and Fitzgibbon [16] show how it is movements [29]. But image-based strategies require some
possible to add a moustache to a video of a moving face sort of representation that goes beyond the current image.
captured with a hand-held camera. In theory, this could be Gillner and Mallot [30], for example, have measured the
achieved by generating a deformable three-dimensional ability of participants to learn the layout of a virtual town,
model of the head, but the authors’ solution was to extract a navigate back to objects and find novel shortcuts. They
stable texture from the images of the face (an ‘unwrap suggested that people’s behaviour was consistent with them
mosaic’), add the moustache to that and then ‘paste’ the new building up a ‘graph of views’, where the edges are actions
texture back onto the original frames. The result appears con- (forward movement and turns) and the nodes are views
vincingly ‘three-dimensional’ despite the fact that no three- (figure 2b). Similarly, data by Schnapp and Warren (in an
dimensional coordinates were computed at any stage. Closely abstract form, [31,32]) have tested participants’ ability to navi-
related image-based approaches have been used for a localiz- gate in a virtual reality environment that does not correspond
ation task [17]. In the movie industry and in many other to any possible metric structure. It contains ‘wormholes’ that
applications, the start and end points are images, in which transport participants to a different location and different
case an intermediate representation in a three-dimensional orientation in the maze without them being aware that this

frame can often be avoided. Another case is image has happened (see figure 2a). Because they are translated and


Figure 1. Computer vision approaches. (a) Early photogrammetry methods tracked features across a sequence of frames and calculated a set of three-dimensional
points and a camera path that would best explain the tracks (Image courtesy of Oxford Metrics (OMG plc), [10]). (b) ‘Dense SLAM’ now achieves the same result but
for a very dense reconstruction of surfaces and is done in real time (© Reprinted from Newcombe et al. [11] with permission from IEEE). (c) Sometimes it is very