of a cross-correlator [13]. aRDSs lack the global match MT should be outside the system. Why, then, do micro-
(figure 1c) and abolish the sensation of three-dimensional stimulation and unit recording results all point to the
structure in human subjects [6,14] (see later sections for perceptual relevance of V5/MT responses? Behind this dis-
detailed discussion). Therefore, it was proposed and accepted crepancy lies a deeper question regarding the mechanism
by many that the transformation of the binocular correlation of stereopsis: can the correlation signal contribute directly
signal into the disparity signal of the matched features is to depth perception (as opposed to indirectly, via transform-
necessary for binocular depth perception [13]. Another group ation to the match signal)? To put it another way, can the
of V1 neurons attenuate the disparity selectivity for aRDSs, visual system support depth perception without solving
suggesting that the signal transformation begins in V1 [11]. the correspondence problem?
Hereafter, we refer to the disparity signal of the matched fea- To address this question, we re-examined human obser-
tures as binocular match signal, the neuronal disparity vers’ ability to discriminate binocular disparity in aRDSs
selectivity consistent with the match signal as match-based dis- under previously untested conditions. We found that
parity representation, and the computational process that humans can in fact exploit the correlation signal and discrimi-
produces such representation as matching computation. nate stereoscopic depth in aRDSs [29]. A crucial condition is
In this review, we discuss our recent psychophysical find- that an aRDS should accompany an immediately adjacent
ings demonstrating that, contrary to the previous view, the plane that is defined by a cRDS. For example, we used bipar-
correlation signal can directly contribute to depth perception tite, centre-surround RDSs in which only the centre disc was
without being fully transformed into a match signal, and anti-correlated and the surrounding annulus was correlated
that the relative contribution of the correlation and match (figure 2a, bottom). In the experiments, we used dynamic
signals varies with changes in stimulus parameters. We then RDSs in which dot patterns were refreshed at a given rate
show that a nonlinear process after local-correlation detection (electronic supplementary material, Video Clip 1). With this
plays an important role in transforming the correlation signal condition observers judge that an aRDS with a crossed
into the match signal. Finally, we discuss the neural substrate (near) disparity is farther away, and one with an uncrossed
that transforms the correlation signal into the match signal. (far) disparity is nearer, than the cRDS plane with zero
We propose a hypothesis that a neural representation of the disparity, a phenomenon known as reversed depth percep-