cated as playing causal roles in perceptual alternation. The These findings suggest that the observed differences in sensitivity
behavioural performance of individual patients appeared to to binocular disparity between patients with left and right PPC
depend on the site of their PPC lesions. In a range of stereo lesions were not simply owing to attention. It is noteworthy
tasks, two patients with damage largely confined to the left that patient MH showed both intact local (fine task) and global
hemisphere were able to perceive depth with sensitivities (signal-in-noise task) stereopsis, despite some degree of
comparable to control subjects, whereas those with right damage to right PPC in addition to a more extensive left PPC
hemisphere PPC damage showed obvious deficits. By con- lesion (figure 1; electronic supplementary material, figure 55).
trast, neither right nor left PPC damage significantly Further consideration of this case may provide an explanation.

diminished the perception of depth SFM. Nor did it disrupt MH''s injuries are a result of hypoxia caused by carbon
the spontaneous depth reversals normally experienced monoxide poisoning, which caused thinning of the cortical
during continuous viewing of such ambiguous stimuli. In sheet most prominently in the left parietal lobe but also in
fact, the bistable perception in the two patients with bilateral the right IPS (rIPS). In that sense, damage to MH’s parietal
PPC lesions proceeded at notably faster rate than in the other cortex resembles that of another hypoxia patient who, in
patients or controls. The following sections discuss, in turn, addition to suffering from visual form agnosia owing to lat-
the role of the PPC in stereopsis, depth from motion and bis- eral occipital cortex damage, also had damage to left PPC
table alternations, as well as important caveats surrounding and bilateral atrophy of the IPS [71,72]. That patient, like
between-subject comparisons of bistable perception. MH, was found to have preserved depth perception from

both static absolute disparities and dynamic relative dispar-
ities [73]. This evidence suggests that the type of diffuse
damage to PPC and IPS that can result from hypoxic injury

stereopsis may not be sufficient to induce deficits in all aspects of
The two patients (MH and RH) who demonstrated normal stereopsis. It is worth noting that previous neuropsychologi-