> > >
functional diversity functional diversity functional diversity

Figure 3. Cartoon representation of the effect of trait diversity in layered and top-down control food webs. The figure represents hypothesized relationships between
functional diversity and plant biomass in BEF experiments where the functional diversity is varied at different trophic levels (indicated by shading). (Online version in colour.)

of predators [95]. It is important, however, to understand the formalizes this interpretation with quantitative analyses, such
role of trophic regulation in this relationship to adequately dis- as the use of functional distinctiveness and CWM. The food
tinguish the cause and the effect. A strong top-down control, as web literature has been instrumental in the establishment of
imposed by functional diversity of the top layer, could either the ‘keystone species’ concept [96]. It is well documented that
promote diversity through keystone predation [96] or via some predators, because they are highly efficient at controlling
reduced apparent competition [31]. Functional diversity some populations, could promote coexistence and have a sig-
could also have a positive effect on nutrient retention and nificant impact on ecosystem structure [27]. Despite the fact
cycling within the food web [29]. Primary productivity will that they are often located at the top of the food chain, we
be promoted by a tight nutrient cycling loop and thus the diver- have a poor understanding of the traits determining the keysto-
sity of feeding modes, including scavengers and detritivores, neness of a species in a given food web. Further, the keystone
will ensure that primary and secondary production remains role of a predator has to be the result of a match between its
local and is not exported out of the system [97]. Further, a traits and the ones of the prey species in the food web. The pro-
diversity of stoichiometry in the various organisms, as long blem of keystoneness was addressed with the investigation of
as exudates, could promote the efficiency of detritivores [98]. the determinants of direct and indirect interactions in modelled
Functional diversity could, on the other hand, increase food webs [101]. It was found that the best predictors of single
the strength of top-down regulation and consequently have species removal effects were essentially the biomass of the
various effects on primary and secondary productivity, removed species (which is a dominance effect) and the network
depending of the trophic level considered. Increased func- path length between the removed species and the focal one (the
tional diversity of a given trophic level will increase the shorter the path, the stronger the effect). Predator—prey body