by at least one of the inhibitors [14]. Applied to the specific molecules. In our models, the two inhibitors either target two
case of pathogen growth rates, Bliss independence is equivalent distinct mechanistic components and thus interact in an inde-
to adding all single effects of the various inhibitors. pendent fashion (molecular independence), or they target a

Loewe additivity, in contrast, is built on the premise that an single component in which case they interfere with each
inhibitor cannot synergize or antagonize with itself [11,15]. other at the level of individual molecules (molecular
Strictly speaking, inhibitor effects in combination are additive dependence).
according to Loewe if two doses of the same inhibitor are Our approach is based on the multi-hit model framework
added together. In combination, the dose of the first inhibitor originally introduced by Hedges [16] to examine the kinetics
is increased by the amount of the second inhibitor. Especially of colicin, an AMP produced by Escherichia coli. The multi-
for nonlinear individual effect curves, this premise requires a hit model idealizes the mechanistic pathways behind the
sophisticated mathematical derivation. The complication inhibitor’s mode of action. According to this framework, a
arises from the fact that addition of inhibitors increases the pathogen dies as soon as a certain threshold number of inhibitor
effect by different amounts, depending on the amount of inhibi- molecules bind to or ‘hit’ pathogen receptors. We implemen-
tors already present. This is due to the slope of the nonlinear ted independence by providing two distinct receptor types
curve that is small for low and high inhibitor concentrations to which inhibitors can bind. In the alternative scenario of
and large for inhibitor concentrations in between (figure 1b). dependence, there is only one type of receptor for binding in
As an example, addition of inhibitors at concentrations that by our model.
themselves already induce almost the maximum effect, i.e. at We found that our multi-hit model simulating indepen-
concentrations where the slope is small, do not increase the over- dence of the molecule action predicts combined effects
all effect any more. While such behaviour could be interpreted equivalent to Bliss independence. For dependence, the com-

as antagonism, according to Loewe it is defined as independent. bined effect is consistent with Loewe additivity. Our results

