

these genes in the context of an immune response at the protein In this context, it would also be of particular interest to El

level, demonstrating that the two CTLD proteins CLEC-39 assess how different immune effectors interact with each
and CLEC-49 are able to bind to a bacterial pathogen, in this other to affect microbe proliferation. Effector molecules are a
case S. marcescens [90]. Although clec-39 and clec-49 mutant usually studied in isolation, although several effector genes s
worms are more susceptible to S. marcescens infection, the are simultaneously expressed in response to pathogen infec- a
proteins CLEC-39 and CLEC-49 do not have an inhibitory tion and some effector proteins are known to exert their = 2
effect on S. marcescens growth in vitro. These results suggest antimicrobial activity in synergy with other immune effectors 5
that the genes either function in recognition or do not mediate to enhance their potency ([95]; see also [85,86,96]). Interest- S
pathogen elimination alone but perhaps in collaboration ingly, the mixture of expressed effector genes seems to be =
with other effectors. A more detailed discussion of pos- highly specific (figures 2 and 3). In fact, we do not find iden-  ‘S
sible immune functions of these proteins has recently been tical patterns of co-expressed genes in response to the various ©
published elsewhere [87]. microbes, possibly suggesting specifically fine-tuned immune —-s
Two additional groups of putative effectors are the fungal- defences. Such fine-tuning is likely orchestrated by intercon- =
induced peptides (fip) and fip-related peptides (fipr). These nected signalling processes which integrate information S
genes are induced in expression upon infection with fungal from various stimuli, including microbial molecules and -
pathogens such as D. coniospora or Harposporium sp. [50]. also the cellular consequences of pathogen infection (i.e. cel- 2
Caenorhabditis elegans possesses seven fip genes and 29 fipr lular damage; reviewed in [17]). However, the exact S
genes which generally vary in their expression upon pathogen regulation of C. elegans effector gene expression is largely w
exposure (electronic supplementary material, figures S1 unexplored. The main exception refers to nlp-29, for which =~
and S2). As they encode proteins that are less than 100 amino an endogenous danger signal triggers gene expression [46] ©
acids in size and are predicted to have signal peptides, it is and which is regulated through a complex signalling 3
likely that fip and fipr genes encode AMPs. Experimental evi- network (e.g. [21,25,45,46]). Further analysis of the exact S