initial development, the focus on existing areas would also the south might be reasonable substitutes. Such consolidation
seem likely to be a more robust strategy for avoiding carbon might also make it easier to support agricultural development
and biodiversity loss over the long-term [35]. with lower attendant infrastructure development costs. And

Beyond road infrastructure, our results also indicate the this biodiversity concern is only one example of other issues,
importance of assessing current agricultural development many purely practical, which should, and inevitably will,
plans because of the low overlap between Zambia’s agricultural influence where agriculture develops.
development blocks and the areas selected for any objective. Third, data quality is critical. This kind of model focuses on

We believe this type of model would be particularly useful particular hectares, not broad averages, so data errors have little
for planning agricultural development in any politically het- or no chance of averaging out through aggregation. Predicted
erogeneous environment. Optimization models that require potential yields and most of our other scores can be highly sen-
ex ante specification of preferences in mathematical terms sitive to errors in the inputs used to calculate them. These facts
work less well for decision-making that must weigh very mean that long-term use of the model should be accompanied
different objectives in unclear ways. Our model makes an itera- by steady data improvement. It also means that the model
tive optimization process possible, which allows people to should mostly serve as a guide to likely values. Before govern-
realize their preferences in the face of real information about ments make any important and potentially irreversible
options. It is particularly suitable for making decisions that decisions, there should be site-specific ground-truthing of
will inevitably have strong political elements, and to consen- soil properties and yield potential, as well as confirmation
sus-building among stakeholders with different preferences. of biodiversity and carbon characteristics.

For this kind of tool to be truly legitimate and useful on a Fourth, some elements of the model should also be further
practical level, we believe several elements are required. First, developed. Analysis of agricultural potential could incorporate
it should be further developed and applied in an iterative more economic factors, differentiate between smallholder
way with the government and other stakeholders so that the and commercial farming practices and incorporate irrigation