to increase the amount of useful information available for rather than rely solely on our barcoding data. Our analyses of
analysis. In bumblebees [62] and pyrrhocorid seed bugs differences in symbiont community composition between
[63], low-throughput follow-up sequencing of target lineages different host species largely sidestep uncertainty in the taxo-
using specific primers permitted deeper exploration of trends nomic placement or phylogenetic relationships of our OTUs:
observed in untargeted metabarcoding efforts. In vertebrates, our analyses demonstrate community differences based on
techniques to reduce the impact of sequencing noise per- OTU abundances for each host, but not on the taxonomic
mitted the detection of patterns of host specificity from labels attached to those OTUs, or on their phylogenetic
metabarcoding data, even though the underlying sequences placements (cf. [71]).
were quite similar [55]. DNA barcodes can also provide a window on the evol-

As new sequencing approaches are developed, analysis utionary history of a host-symbiont association—a dynamic
of evolutionary history directly from metabarcode data will relationship shaped by selection and phylogenetic constraint
become possible with more confidence. Long-read technology that is absent in abiotic contexts. This reflects the fact that bar-
will allow the use of full-length gene sequences, provided cur- codes are not just taxonomic labels, but evolving DNA
rent problems of read accuracy can be overcome. Even given sequences that can be analysed for evidence of host-symbiont
current sequencing technology, changing the bacterial meta- codiversification. In contrast to our V. drepanolobium and
barcoding target to faster-evolving protein-coding genes will Nepenthes studies, the clustering of Cephalotes gut bacteria is
yield more phylogenetically informative information than the sensitive to our choice of clustering threshold. But rather than
16S gene. Recent work has already made this approach poss- being problematic, we are in fact able to use hierarchical clus-
ible, either by the initial amplification of these genes [64] or tering at different thresholds to our advantage, interpreting
by what is effectively post-hoc barcoding of microbial com- this sensitivity to parameters in light of expectations about
munities by sifting through shotgun metagenomic sequence the timescales of coevolutionary change.
data [65,66]. As technology and methods improve, barcoding and

metabarcoding approaches will become increasingly useful