For wet heath habitats to be in good condition, the following conditions must be met:

(1) There should be no observable signs of burning into the moss, liverwort or lichen layer or exposure of peat surface due to
burning.

(2) There should be no signs of burning and other disturbance inside the boundaries of the ‘sensitive areas’ which includes
ground with abundant, and/or an almost continuous carpet of Sphagnum, liverworts and/or lichens. This target should
also be recorded if any evidence of this is found while walking between sample locations.

be estimated (sensu [102]). This results in 0.68% of moorland in restoration of similar ecosystems in both southern [3] and
Great Britain being burned per year (range on individual northern (e.g. [20,21]) European countries, there is growing
moors 0.04%—3.8%) and an average fire-return interval of 147 pressure to substantially reduce or even ban burning. Atten-
years (range on individual moors 26-2500 years)—assuming tion is often drawn to the fact that burning causes peatland
repeat burning within 25 years does not account for a signifi- ecosystems to be in ‘unfavourable condition’ [104]. However,
cant area (the study by Allen et al. [101] suggests this is fair this notion results from standardized assessment criteria that
for at least some regions). Although these are very rough implicitly assume that fire only has damaging effects on peat-
estimates, they suggest considerable heterogeneity in fire lands and that, therefore, do not account for the fire ecology
regimes across the British uplands, with the majority of sites of our upland landscapes. The guidelines for Common
probably experiencing fire-return intervals rather longer than Standards Monitoring practices [104] on peatlands in UK pro-
the 10-20 years traditionally recommended for heather moor- tected areas thus make it more-or-less impossible for burned
lands. This concurs with the results of Allen et al. [101] who sites to be classified as being in good condition (box 1),
showed that, for a case-study area within the Peak District, despite the potential ecological benefits of prescribed fire.
most burning followed recommended guidelines for fire Essentially, the presence or evidence of fire is a ‘fail’ criterion
frequency and fire size. The fire rotation values we estimate even when prescribed fire is part of an approved manage-
here are comparable with, or longer than, those associated ment agreement. As Yallop et al. [99] suggested, this inflates