brain’s metabolic budget [61]. Synaptic transmission and network parameters and the whole genome. We found two dis- ©
maintenance of resting membrane potentials represent major tinct components of gene expression that were specifically = -
demands on the brain’s supply of ATP, generated mainly by related to different aspects of nodal topology and connection = =
mitochondrial metabolism of glucose [62]. Our data further distance, and had different spatial patterning as well as differ- S
suggest that hubs mediating more long-distance connections ential enrichment for biological processes. This pattern of -
between modules face greater metabolic demands than hubs results is not obviously attributable to a homogeneous and 2
mediating more short-distance connections within modules. spatially isotropic effect of distance as a confounding factor S
This may be because long-distance, inter-modular hubs must of both genomic co-expression and functional connectivity w
energetically restore and maintain electrical potentials across [63,64,68]. Instead, these results suggest to us that multiple =
a greater surface area of axonal membrane. These results dimensions of spatially patterned gene expression define func- ©
from human fMRI network analysis are analogous to recent tionally connected systems of cytoarchitectonically similar 3
results from tract-tracing and gene expression data in the nodes. By this account, the intertwined patterning of spatial ©
mouse indicating that genes regulating oxidative metabolism location, nodal topology and gene expression is in fact the phe-
were strongly co-expressed in pairs of brain regions that notype of interest and it would therefore not be appropriate to
included a hub [63]. correct the data for spatial location prior to analysis. This is not
It was also notable that the genes associated with inter-mod- to say that potentially problematic issues related to spatial
ular degree and long distance (positively weighted on PLS2 in location were entirely neglected in our analysis. For statistical
these data) were enriched for a set of 19 genes, expressed specifi- inference on PLS results by permutation testing, for example,
cally in human supragranular cortex, that may have been the significance of association between nodal topology and
necessary for the characteristically human evolution of cortico- gene expression defined by the first two PLS components
cortical connectivity and associative cognitive processes [10]. could be artefactually inflated by randomly permuting the
The HSE genes were not significantly enriched in the genes regional network metrics regardless of their spatial proximity.
associated with intra-modular degree and short distance (posi- This point is related to the more general issue of exchangeability
tively weighted on PLS1). Interestingly, the positively weighted in the proper design of permutation tests. If units of observation
genes on PLS2 were not significantly enriched for 116 genes (regional nodes) are not expected to be independent of each