light, and emit at higher wavelengths (lower energy light). region, sources were bright enough and detectors had suffi-
This means that the brain must be illuminated at the fluoro- cient sensitivity. However, if more superficial layers are also
phore’s excitation wavelength, and this wavelength must be fluorescent (figure 6c), sensitivity will be much more strongly
blocked from entering the camera to enable sensitivity to weighted to fluorescent regions closet to the surface, increasing
photons at the fluorophore’s emission wavelengths. Emission background as well as the dynamic range required to also
intensities are typically much lower than excitation energies. detect changes in deeper regions. The other effect of this differ-
It is argued here that reflectance WFOM measurements ence is in the applicability of using diffuse-reflectance
should always be acquired in parallel with fluorescence measurements to correct for absorption contamination of
measurements to protect against haemodynamic cross-talk fluorescence measurements as described in more detail below.
as explained further below. Another slight difference between the spatial sensitivity

Overall, the imaging properties of WFOM for fluorescence of wide-field fluorescence and absorption measurements
imaging are largely similar to those of haemodynamic comes from the fact that fluorescence emissions are isotropic.
imaging. However, there are several considerations for fluor- Diffuse-reflectance signals come from photons that have
escence WFOM that differ from reflectance imaging as repeatedly scattered, usually in a fairly forward direction,
described below: until they emerge from the tissue (with signal being inferred

from photons that are absorbed, and thus do not emerge).
Conversely, a fluorescent absorption event can occur for a
photon travelling in any direction, and emission of a fluor-

(a) Depth sensitivity of fluorescence wide-field optical

mapping escence photon will be in a random direction, such that
An important distinction between reflectance and fluorescence photons with effectively shorter paths could feasibly return