
Figure 4. Infant call acoustics change after adult vocalizations. (a) Exemplar probability density distribution of entropy and duration for P3, P12 and P24 for a single
marmoset. Warmer colours indicate higher probability density values. (b) Weighted average entropy of infant calls produced before adult call onset (yellow line) and
after adult call offset (green line). The shaded regions indicate the respective 95% confidence intervals. (c) Index of entropy change (black line) ([entropy after —
entropy before]/[entropy after +- entropy before]). (¢) Weighted average duration of infant calls produced before adult call onset (yellow line) and after adult call
offset (green line). The shaded regions indicate the respective 95% confidence intervals. (e) Index of duration change (black line) ([duration after — duration
before]/[duration after + duration before)).

properties of a dynamical system: two individuals become 3-month-olds [9]. This overlap probability decreases to about
coupled to each other via acoustic exchanges, mutually affect 15% in marmoset infants by the time they are two months of
each other (e.g. phase locking and entrainment), and thereby age, also consistent with what is observed in the near age-
produce an autonomous, self-sustaining organization [1-4]. equivalent human infant (18-month-olds; [9]). Adult marmosets
In humans, vocal turn-taking develops during the first year rarely overlap their vocalizations [22]. Thus, the fact that turn-
of life [7-11]. In the first postnatal months, infants frequently taking is still developing at two months of age in marmosets is
overlap their vocalizations with their parents’ utterances. analogous to the way that human infants at 18 months of age
By approximately nine months of age, they can engage in still exhibit immature vocal interaction dynamics. We also
proto-conversations with adult-like turn-taking dynamics. In showed that the amount of observed vocalization overlap is
this study, we investigated the development of vocal turn- larger than what is expected by chance early in postnatal life,
taking in marmoset monkeys. Turn-taking in adult marmosets similar to what was observed in 13—15-week-old human infants
has the same universal features of human conversational turn- [33]. Thus, marmoset infants undergo the same developmental
taking (albeit on a different timescale) and exhibits the essential trajectory for vocal turn-taking as humans, and do so during
eatures of a coupled oscillator system [22]. the same life-history stage.

We tested marmoset infants in a directed context in which During the changes in vocal turn-taking by infants, it is
they could vocally interact with their parents, starting on post- important to know whether or not infants, parents or both