haemoglobin is known to have an oxygenation-dependent However, to convert reflectance data into estimates of changes
absorption spectrum in the visible and near infrared range, in the concentration of haemoglobin, we must examine the
corresponding to the bright red colour of arterial blood and physical principles of light propagation in scattering brain tissue.
the darker brown colour of venous blood (figure 2). It was, In a simple, absorbing but non-scattering medium (such
therefore, recognized that measurements of diffuse-reflectance as a glass cuvette filled with a clear, absorbing liquid), the
changes at specific wavelengths across the haemoglobin transmission of light will follow Beer’s Law:
absorption bands would differently represent contributions T= he", (2.1)
from changes in the local concentration of oxy- and deoxyhae-
moglobin (A[HbO] and A[HbR]) as well as their total where Ip is the incident intensity and I is the resulting intensity
(A[HbT] = A[HbO] + A[HbR]), which represents a change in after the light has travelled a pathlength x through the medium
local blood volume. with absorption coefficient 4,. However, the brain is highly

Figure 3 shows raw reflectance data collected under green scattering at visible wavelengths. In fact, scattering is what per-
(530 nm) and red (630 nm) illumination (corresponding to the mits light entering the brain’s surface to be diffusely reflected
converted data shown in figure 1). As described further and detected by a camera focused on the brain’s surface. As
below, 530 nm is a high-contrast isosbestic point of the haemo- scattering turns the incident light around, each scattering
globin absorption spectra meaning that both HbO and HbR event adds to the photon’s pathlength through the absorbing
have the same absorption values, making the measurement medium. This redirection also introduces spatial uncertainty
independent of oxygenation and sensitive only to changes in in terms of where a photon detected at a particular point on
[HbT] (figure 2). The haemodynamic response evoked by the brain originally entered the brain, and where it visited
stimulation is represented by a darkening of the cortex, corre- within the brain. Finally, the light emerging from the brain
sponding to a local increase in [HbT] (hyperaemia). All will exit in a range of directions, based on its last scattering
vessels appear dark in the absolute image, with high contrast event, such that every photon entering will not necessarily be
against the background parenchyma. Darker vessel structures detected by the aperture of the camera lens. In practical
in the ratiometic image (below) correspond to dilations. implementations, it is impossible to know precisely how scat-