
between children’s initial response choices and their age was accommodate the actions of their partner. For this purpose,
observed, x3 = 1.048, p = 0.79. Figure 2 illustrates that 64% of we tested with a Kruskal-Wallis test and Jonckheere’s
the 24-year-old, 70% of the 3-year-olds, 77% of the 3Lyear- trend test whether children flexibly adjusted their continuous
olds and 73% of the 5-year-olds passed the cup on the first response and whether this improved with age. The results are
trial in such a way that their joint-action partner could shown in figure 3. Continuous response choice values can
easily reach for the cup with her free hand. range from 0 (i.e. making the partner’s actions more difficult
As no age differences were observed, we collapsed data on all trials) to 1 (ie. accommodating the partner's actions on
across age to test whether children were more likely to pass all trials). If children continuously passed the cup on one side
the cup to their joint-action partner on her free-hand side it resulted in a continuous response choice value of 0.5.
on the first trial. Overall, children significantly planned Children’s continuous response choices differed signifi-
their actions proactively in a way that accommodated their cantly between age groups, H(3) = 7.9, p < 0.05. Jonckheere’s
partner’s actions, as indicated by the fact that 71% of all test revealed a significant trend in the data: the continuous
children chose to pass the first cup to their joint-action response choice values increased with age, ] = 1759.5, p<
partner on her free-hand side (p < 0.01). 0.01, z = 2.62, r = 0.28. To test children’s performance against

chance, we entered the data in a one-sample Wilcoxon
signed-rank test, separately per age group. The 2}-year-olds

(b) Continuous response choice (M = 0.51, s.d. = 0.03) and 3-year-olds (M = 0.54, s.d. = 0.12)
The second question we examined was to what extent chil- did not differ from chance (i.e. 0.5) in their averaged continuous
dren of different age groups would flexibly adjust their response choices (ps > 0.05): they equally often passed the cup

action plans over the course of the experiment to to the side of their joint-action partner’s free and occupied
