interesting about the former, from the perspective of animal near-ground wind speeds. The results demonstrate that barn


Figure 3. The use of coloured smoke ‘grenades’ demonstrate how a parallel wind field is altered by a tree, according to whether or not the tree is in leaf. Grenades
were released into a section of piping that was held on poles at a height of 5 m, and parallel to the oncoming airflow, in order to direct a plume of smoke towards
the target tree. Photographs taken in the summer and winter (a,b), respectively) demonstrate how the oncoming airflow is directed over the tree when it is in leaf,
producing vertical air motion, whereas the smoke passes through the tree in winter due to the lack of leaves. (Online version in colour.)

swallows (Hirundo rustica) use near-ground wind speed gradi- Birds occupy every continent on the planet and can fly in thin air
ents to gain potential and kinetic energy in both flapping and at altitudes of over 7000 m while crossing the Himalayas [47],
gliding turns. This provides evidence that such exploitation and can endure temperatures from —50°C-45°C. They are
of the shear layer is not solely the province of the Procellarii- also extreme endurance athletes, and are capable of travelling
form seabirds. In fact, swallow flight is perhaps an ultimate over 11000 km non-stop during migrations comprising over
example of aerial multi-tasking, as birds simultaneously 215 h of continuous powered flight [48]. The morphology and
harvest energy from the air, avoid obstacles (embedded in a musculature that has evolved to provide the necessary func-
solid substrate) and catch prey. tional units to allow such flight behaviour is unique to birds,
Overall, the vertical motion, wind gradients and gusts and is discussed in detail in this volume by Tobalske [49]. The
from which animals harvest energy, largely result from the physiology that is required to power such endurance exercise
interaction between the air and the substrate (whether solid is a detailed network linking primarily the cardiovascular and
or not). This leads to the interesting irony that while flying respiratory systems. The impressive fat stores that birds deposit,
animals are celebrated for their ability to escape the apparent fuelling such long flights, are extensive, and key aspects of flight
bonds of the ground, many of them exploit, and in some physiology are described by Butler [50].
cases depend on [40], heterogeneity in the airscape that During long-duration flights in particular, there is a great
derives from the air’s interaction with the substrate, render- need for heat dissipation, due to the intense flight muscle
ing them less ‘free’ than we might imagine them to be. In activity generating heat (see [51] for a discussion of thermoregu-