both can contribute to answering the question—interactional processes). The conditions under which the system self-
sociology for its careful scrutiny of organizational properties organizes are precarious, which means that if the system was
of interactions; and enaction for its definition of both social not organized like a network of processes, under otherwise
interaction processes and of individuals in terms of autonomy, equal physical conditions, isolated component processes of
and for its study of their interplay in terms of participatory the system would tend to run down or extinguish. In other
sense-making [7]. words, an autonomous system depends for its organization

In this paper, we bring these fields into a dialogue. and self-maintenance on its component processes and their
Together they can elucidate the question of what enables relations, and they in turn depend on the network. Autonomy
the co-creation of meaning. We first investigate, in §2, face-to- defined in this way has been proposed to emerge and to gener-
face interactions and analyse their organization in terms ate identities at different levels, ranging from metabolic, over
of the autonomy of interaction processes and the elements sensorimotor, neuro-dynamical, immune and social systems
that sustain their organization. In §3, we delve deeper into [6,10-14]. The fact that such a system is precarious, moreover,
the interplay between this interactional self-organization and means that it may not be able to deal with all the perturba-
individual self-organization, since it is in this interplay that tions that can happen to it. We will pick up the theme of
actions and meanings are collaboratively created. Throughout precariousness again in §3.
the paper, we explicate and interweave terms, conceptual- What can this enactive definition of autonomous systems
izations and examples from interactional sociology and mean for exploring the Goffmanian interaction order? First,
enaction. This braiding of the approaches allows us, in §4, enaction proposes that an autonomous system differentiates
to propose ways in which social interaction’s role in the co- itself from the environment, forming an operational closure.
creation of meaning can be empirically researched, particularly In interactional sociology, the environment from which the
in social neuroscience and in psychology. interaction order differentiates itself has been understood as

consisting of two other organizations: (i) large-scale social
institutions, and (ii) individual actors. This means that the