and therefore does not have the potential to be an indepen- associated with economic flight at higher speeds. This
dent control and lifting surface. Bat species studied to date comes as no surprise for T. brasiliensis given their extended
have little or no tail membrane and bat wakes show no evi- travel distances. At lower speeds, M. velifer seems to have
dence of significant aerodynamic function for the tail better flight efficiency, indicated by the lack of root vortices,
[23,33,51]. However, both M. velifer and T. brasiliensis possess than T. brasiliensis. However, the complicated relationship
substantial tail membranes, and, in common with many between flight performance, morphology and kinematics
insectivorous bats, use tail membranes to capture prey. The makes it impossible to conclusively identify a deterministic
ratio of wing to tail area is similar in the two species role of the parameters we investigated, such as wing loading,
(T. brasiliensis: 7.3 + 0.9%; M. velifer: 6.6 + 0.6%), and neither AR and body width on wake architecture.
showed evidence of tail vortices at any speed. However, we Based on the cases in which span efficiency has been used
cannot unequivocally exclude that interspecific differences to compare flight performance between species [4,20,54], it has
in tail membrane morphology, such as AR, could influence been proposed that birds have superior aerodynamic perform-
the wake structure near the body. ance to that of bats [54]. This conclusion relies on the fact that

Both species show a low angle of body and tail (see the the frugivorous bat species investigated (G. soricina and L. yer-
electronic supplementary material, Movie S1) at all flight babuenae) have lower lift generation associated with the body
speeds, an observation confirmed when using the foot— region than the birds (flycatchers and blackcaps), and as a
body angle as approximation (figure 4a—f). Although this result, possess relatively low span efficiency. However, the
approximation has to be treated with some caution, average aerial-hunting bats in this study showed weak root vortices
foot—body angle over the wingbeat cycle suggests a slightly at high speeds, indicating the participation of the body in lift
steeper angle for M. velifer (T. brasiliensis: 3.2 + 5.3°; M. velifer: generation, and thus suggesting a higher span efficiency,
9.0 + 5.1°), which would be better for lift generation, and perhaps comparable to the aerial-hunting birds. This wide
would thus result in weaker root vortices at low speed than variation in nature of bat wakes emphasizes the aeromechani-
observed in T. brasiliensis. A second potential explanation cal diversity of the order, and consequently, generalizations
for the differences in root vortex structure could be that the about bat aerodynamic performance should be made with cau-