information provided by mechanosensors and the absolute to damage or natural variation [117]. w
spatial information provided by vision. The application of control theory has already provided =~
One intriguing new theme in fly research is that all of great insight into the function of the flight aerodynamics ©
the major sensory structures involved in flight control—eyes, and will no doubt emerge as an essential tool going forward. 3
halteres and antennae—can influence each other’s sensitivity Like all modelling, however, control theory is most powerful 55
via the action of specialized motor systems. For example, the when used iteratively with experiments, and there are several
halteres are equipped with a complex set of control muscles pitfalls associated with its application. First, systems identifi-
that receive descending visual input [110]. This interaction is cation ultimately boils down to parameter fitting, and the
reciprocal, because haltere mechanoreceptors project to data from any set of experiments could be explained by an
motor neurons that regulate head motion [111]. Two recent infinite number of feedback models. Although relying on par-
independent studies have explored the functional conse- simony is perhaps the most prudent strategy, there is no
quences of this interaction between proprioceptive and visual guarantee that the simplest model is indeed the correct one.
pathways by manipulating feedback from the halteres and More problematic is the fact that block diagrams may often
wings and examining the effect on visual reflexes [112,113]. be re-arranged in a number of different ways that superfi-
The results are somewhat enigmatic, in that haltere ablation cially appear to represent alternative models, but actually
attenuates visual responses to large field motion or looming reduce to the same set of differential equations. For this
objects, but can actually enhance the fixation of small targets. reason, one should not be seduced into believing that the
Interpreting the results of these ablation experiments is compli- elements in a block diagram represent actual neural pathways
cated by the likely possibility that the haltere functions both as and computations. Finally, the computations relevant to con-
a gyroscope and as a metronome to provide phasic input to the trol systems, such as differentiation and integration, are
wing steering system—and both these submodalities might automatically performed by neurons and muscles as part of
be influenced by descending control via the haltere muscles. their intrinsic operation. It may be tempting to see every
The antennae also possess muscles that alter the organ’s orien- example of such an operation as a functional feature of the
tation in response to visual motion [114]. Apparently each system, but in some cases it may simply represent a bug or
relevant sensory modality has the capacity to alter the sensi- epiphenomenon due to the hard constraints of the underlying