to use the Liberian stopover also in spring in the majority of
our tracked swifts (52 of 70). The individual swifts remained
at the stopover for a few days up to one month, suggesting a
migration strategy including fuelling at stopovers, rather than
a continuous fly-and-forage strategy. Both stopovers in
autumn and spring were needed for fuelling, as individual
swifts remained in the area for a few days up to four weeks

(range: 1.5-32 days). Expected fuelling was supported by the (d) Migration in relation to winds
fact that the swifts arrived at the autumn stopovers on days Our swifts experienced positive wind assistance during
when the winds were favourable for continued migration spring migration, with especially good conditions for birds
across the Sahara (with tailwind-assisted flights towards selecting the western route rather than the central and eastern
south to southwest), but in spite of this the birds interrupted routes. In fact our evaluations of migration departures and
migration (figure 2). During the stopover the wind assistance route selection relative to winds suggest that the swifts
along the preferred migration direction decreased for the following the western route in spring have the chance to
remaining period and had stayed negative throughout the exploit more favourable wind conditions compared with
stopover. At the time of departure, the winds had changed to birds crossing the Sahara at locations near to the Congo
provide positive wind assistance in the preferred migration Basin in Central Africa along a central route. Combined
direction towards south to southwest (figure 2). This pattern with the situation at departure the winds also provide tail-
suggests the reason for this initial stopover was not influenced wind assistance along the entire route for our tracked swifts
by winds, but was due to the need to store fuel before continu- (figure 3), which makes wind assistance in combination
ing on migration across the Sahara. We may, thus, expect a with presumed favourable fuelling conditions at the location
capacity by common swifts to perform a significant flight in Liberia a likely explanation to the evolution of this typical
across the Sahara. Extensive fuelling in southern Europe migration pattern in North-European common swifts [15].
before departure on the autumn migration has been observed Previous work has pointed out important migration routes