masked antisymmetric mechanism controlled by FGF signal- asymmetry (figure 6d(i)). A second step involved the establish-  2-
ling. Although it is tempting to speculate that this ontogenic ment of new interactions between the asymmetric left Hb and = S
mechanism resembles evolutionary steps and that FGF signal- the PpO, which resulted in the development of PpO connectivity =
ling directed this first step in evolution, it is necessary to bear to the left Hb while keeping the symmetric position of PpO =
in mind that this might not be the case as evolution and devel- (figure 6d(ii)). Such intimate interaction between the Hb and = ‘2
opment act at very different levels of biological organization. PpO could have brought the PpO into the field of influence of ‘©
If directional asymmetry of the PpO evolved through the two- asymmetric Nodal, which already was acting on the Hb, either = -5
step route, then the ancestral PpO should have been initially by moving the PpO to the left or by modifying spatial ortemporal =
insensitive to Nodal. In a first step, the PpO gained the ability aspects of PpO ontogeny (figure 6d(iii)). Evidence that such a S
to display a lateral movement without a particular direction, modification might have occurred comes from studies showing -
resulting in an antisymmetric PpO localization (figure 6c-2, that the onset of PpO connectivity is heterochronic when compar- 2
left). In a second step, Nodal might have been co-opted in the ing the ontogeny of epithalamic asymmetry among related S
prospective field of the PpO to exert a novel function as laterality teleost species [18,73]. The fact that in the lamprey the PpO w
modulator and direct the side of PpO movement (figure 6c-2, only develops after asymmetries of the Hb are anatomically dis-
right). If this is the case, and the evolution of species has left foot- tinguishable [22] only argues against a possible direct controlof ©
prints of the intermediate evolutionary step in modern animals, Nodal on the asymmetric projection of the PpO in this species, 3
future comparative studies should reveal the existence of a but is coherent with the idea that this effect can be mediated by = =
species with antisymmetric PpO positioning, irrespective of the asymmetry of the Hb. Therefore, we explicitly propose that
the left-sided expression of Nodal. Hb-dependent PpO asymmetries played a key role in the evol-
However, it is also possible that directional asymmetry of ution of epithalamic asymmetries and that these types of
the PpO could have evolved along the direct route (figure 6c- asymmetries might be present in modern species. Future
1, red arrow). The results in lampreys and catshark suggest comparative studies will have to demonstrate this possibility.

that asymmetric expression of Nodal in the epithalamus was
probably present before the appearance of teleost radiation