P2Y¢6R have been identified [27]. Modulation of calcium tran- and gliogenesis, thus reducing the risks for development a
sients by P2Y,Rs exerted opposite functional effects, with of tumours. s
reduction of the proliferation rate and of the number of gen- Apart from the physiological control of neurogenesis, it can a
erated primary neurospheres, in contrast with an overall be foreseen that the above-mentioned mechanisms involving 2.
increased proliferation of secondary neurospheres (see also calcium and extracellular nucleotides become increasingly 5
below). This is possibly owing to the enrichment in NSCs prevalent upon traumatic and/or ischaemic events, when =
that is observed over successive passages in culture and to extracellular purine and neurotransmitter concentrations =
the presence of growth factors [27,28]. Confirmation of a increase several fold, leading to an amplification of their signal- “2
most prominent role in neurogenesis played by the P2Y,R ling pathways under emergency conditions [36]. As elevated ‘©
came from the demonstration that its activation promoted extracellular nucleotide concentrations are known to be = -5
NSC differentiation [28] and migration [29] in vitro, whereas responsible for astrocyte and microglia activation (see also =
a dual effect on proliferation was observed depending on below), it is conceivable that these reactive cell populations =
the presence of growth factors. In fact, stimulation of prolifer- residing within the neurogenic niche (or in its close proximity) -
ation was observed in their absence or at low concentrations can participate to drive NSC final destiny and neurogenic 2
[30,31], while an anti-proliferative effect was achieved at stan- potential. In line with that, ATP secretion by astrocytes even S
dard concentrations (around 20ngml~') [27]. Caution at basal level can promote NSC proliferation in the adult hip- w
should be taken when trying to translate results obtained pocampus through P2Y,R activation [36]. Moreover, in vivo =~
in vitro to an in vivo setting, because cultured stem cells can intracerebroventricular infusion of high concentrations of a &
express all purinergic receptors and may consequently hydrolysis-resistant ADP analogue, thus resembling high 3
reveal a broader spectrum of responses than corresponding pathological nucleotide concentrations, promotes the prolifer-
cells in vivo. Nevertheless, it has been clearly confirmed that ation of type B progenitors and sustains their progression
activation of P2Y;R controls V-SVZ cell functions in vivo. In toward the generation of rapidly dividing progenitors,

fact, upon ATP administration, the proliferation of type C both directly and indirectly, through the contribution of
