in the cortex or striatum. This ability decreases progressively tightly controlled by intercellular calcium waves. ATP release w
with age and sustains a slow, but continuous turnover of and [Ca?*]; transients are connected by autocrine loops, =
astrocytes that normally undergo apoptosis in the corpus where secretion of ATP-containing vesicles depends on &
callosum [13]. [Ca?*], transients and activation of exocytosis through the 3
Type C cells are scattered along the network of migrating v-SNARE system [20]. Following its hydrolysis to ADP, ATP
neuroblasts, they are immunopositive for nestin, the transcrip- activates metabotropic P2Y, receptors, linked to intracellular
tion factor distal-less homeobox-2 (Dlx-2) and Mash1, and calcium mobilization; calcium waves are then propagated
proliferate at high rate. They are considered as intermediate into neighbouring cells by intercellular signalling through con-
precursors for type A cells and are not found in the RMS [14]. nexin hemichannels [4], resulting in cell cycle synchronization
Type A cells correspond to proliferating, migrating neural of migrating neural progenitors and radial glia cells in the
precursor cells, showing immunopositivity for typical V-SVZ for cortex development [21]. This provides an
neuronal markers, like polysialylated neural cell adhesion additional link between calcium and the purinergic system in
molecule (PSA-NCAM) and B-Tubulin class III, along with progenitor cells. In fact, spontaneous calcium oscillations in
the marker of immature neurons doublecortin (DCX) [7]. neural progenitors have been shown to depend on the acti-
Once they reach the OB, type A cells differentiate into vation of P2R, probably owing to the release of ATP.
periglomerular or granular cells following a specific regional Reduced calcium transients evoked by P2Y,R were observed
identity [14]. in precursor cells isolated from connexin43 (Cx43)-null mice
The second region in the adult mammalian brain retain- [22]. Blockade of P2Y,R in precursors from wild-type (WT)
ing substantial neurogenesis is the dentate gyrus (DG) of mice did not alter their differentiation, as measured by the
the hippocampus (figure 1c), where neurogenesis has been ratio of nestin : GFAP expression levels, but reduced their pro-
extensively studied over the years, mainly owing to its liferation rate and their migration distance to distances similar
major role in learning and memory processes. In particular, to those observed in Cx43-null cells. Conversely, forced overex-
neural progenitors in this area are located in the subgranular pression of P2Y,R in Cx43-null neurospheres led to the
zone (SGZ), a very thin (i.e. only one to three nuclei wide) generation of spontaneous calcium oscillation and restored
layer of cells [15]. Three types of neural progenitors have the migration pattern observed in WT neural progenitors