a dual effect on proliferation was observed depending on below), it is conceivable that these reactive cell populations =
the presence of growth factors. In fact, stimulation of prolifer- residing within the neurogenic niche (or in its close proximity) -
ation was observed in their absence or at low concentrations can participate to drive NSC final destiny and neurogenic 2
[30,31], while an anti-proliferative effect was achieved at stan- potential. In line with that, ATP secretion by astrocytes even S
dard concentrations (around 20ngml~') [27]. Caution at basal level can promote NSC proliferation in the adult hip- w
should be taken when trying to translate results obtained pocampus through P2Y,R activation [36]. Moreover, in vivo =~
in vitro to an in vivo setting, because cultured stem cells can intracerebroventricular infusion of high concentrations of a &
express all purinergic receptors and may consequently hydrolysis-resistant ADP analogue, thus resembling high 3
reveal a broader spectrum of responses than corresponding pathological nucleotide concentrations, promotes the prolifer-
cells in vivo. Nevertheless, it has been clearly confirmed that ation of type B progenitors and sustains their progression
activation of P2Y;R controls V-SVZ cell functions in vivo. In toward the generation of rapidly dividing progenitors,

fact, upon ATP administration, the proliferation of type C both directly and indirectly, through the contribution of

cells increased, with no changes in proliferation of either surrounding reactive astrocytes [31].

type B stem cells or type A neuroblasts. To further strengthen Interestingly, traumatic and ischaemic events not only

the role of P2YiR, an opposite effect was observed dramatically modify NSC neurogenic environment, but can
upon administration of the selective P2Y,R antagonist also recruit them outside their ‘natural’ migratory pathway
MRS2179 per se and a reduced number of type C cells was towards the site of injury, in an often unsuccessful attempt
detected in the V-SVZ of P2Y;R-KO mice [32]. The interpret- of regeneration [37], thus profoundly affecting the fate of

ation of in vivo results is further complicated by: (i) difficulties newborn cells. It cannot be excluded that the increased
