A crucial step towards a life-dominated planet required the codon space into 21 non-overlapping sets and considering
establishment of a system able to expand and adapt under the impact of mutations on the efficiency of the code. Here,
changing conditions. To such a goal, information and codes mutations to all codons were performed for each synthetic
might have played a central role as a precondition for code and the change in AA hydrophobicity was determined.
open-ended evolution. This requires the presence of both an This property is connected to a very important feature of
alphabet and polymer strings as well as appropriate physical AAs (and proteins): how they interact with water. Hydro-
properties allowing the molecules to fold into compact phobic AAs do not interact with water, whereas polar ones
structures. Molecular genetics grew along with information easily make contact with water. Different AAs have different
technology in the early 1950s. Many relevant terms, including hydrophobicities, and the analysis measured to what extent
coding and decoding, translation or transcription became this parameter was changed by mutations. The sampled
adopted. A first glimpse of the possible nature of the molecular space included 10° alternative codes, much smaller than the
code of life was suggested by Erwin Schrodinger in 1944: the potential 10’8, but it nevertheless provides a strong argument
idea that an information-carrying molecule should be some in favour of the optimality of the natural code. In fact, when

class of aperiodic crystal [64]. other biological and chemical constraints are considered, the


(a) encodes the a=1,...,N; AA (thus we have )>, Pig = 1);
(ii) Cap, (a, B= 1, ..., Ng), i.e. the distance matrix separating

two AAs (in terms of their hydrophobic properties); (iii) Rj = =
the probability of misreading two symbols. We can then = &
define the following three quantities. The first two provide = =>
a measure of the error load L and the code diversity D 2.
