constraints in both evolved and artificially generated inno- emerge from using ammonium cyanide [31].
vations, we might achieve some understanding of the Because biochemical diversity of basic monomers pervades
uniqueness of the known biology that we know [14]. the development of true living entities, the synthetic soup created
Other important questions that can benefit from the ana- in these experiments provided the source of chemical variation to
lysis of MST are understanding why some transitions seem be exploited by further innovations. In general terms, a set of
common, whereas others seem rather unique [7]. Are hard- reactions can be described by a general reaction scheme
to-obtain synthetic transitions connected to hard-to-evolve bio- N, My
logical novelties? On the other hand, we might also ask if there S- app > BpB;, (2.1)
are other MTs associated with the potentially different MST uni- fal jal

verse. What is their nature and why are they absent in the

biological realm? No less important is the fact that MTs occur where ax, fj indicate stoichiometric coefficients associated
when a given set of preconditions is in place. Preconditions with the N, substrates and N, products of the reactions,
are relevant to our discussion because they imply the presence indicated by A; and Bj, respectively. However, too much
of a landscape of possibilities pervading the emergence of a chemical diversity can also make more difficult reacting mol-
major qualitative change. Moreover, there are remarkable com- ecules to find each other. The potential network of reactions
monalities shared by disparate systems. These universal traits rapidly explodes as shown in figure 1c, where only the 0.1%
are to be found in those principles stemming from the physics of organic molecules from a database is included [29]. In this
of complex systems [15,16], phase transitions [17,18] and the context, the set of reactions shown in figure 1b is just a minimal
algorithmic logic of artificial life models [19,20]. In this context, subset of possible reactions, many of them leading to biologic-
it has been suggested that phase transitions [21,22] can help in ally irrelevant components. Two key questions in this context
understanding the patterns exhibited by METs. Because phase are (i) are there multiple molecular alternatives for a living bio-
transitions are known to exhibit robust, universal laws [23,24], sphere emerging from the primitive soup, and (ii) what
they will help understanding of the general nature of natural processes can drive the highly diverse molecular soup towards