suggested Bd asa likely cause. One epidemic of chytridiomyco- x
(iv) Puerto Rico sis has been reported from Africa, that of the Kihansi Gorge in ”
In Puerto Rico, three endemic species of amphibians became Tanzania. In 2003, a mass mortality event was followed by
extinct in the 1970s [56]. No die-offs were ever observed, but population declines of many species that was attributed to Bd
museum specimens showed that Bd has been present since [66]. It is not known which lineage of Bd caused this mortality
1976. Like species that disappeared from Panama and Costa event, although patterns suggest the invasive Bd-GPL. It was
Rica, these species were habitat specialists, and at least one hypothesized that infected frogs arrived at the site in construc-
was associated with streams. Using capture-mark-—recapture tion material, although how the site remained Bd-free after a
and disease surveillance, researchers were able to document century of Bd presence in surrounding areas is curious. Luckily,
ongoing population declines associated with disease despite a captive population of the endemic Kihansi spray toad (Necto-
the lack of detectable mortality. Today, surviving species are phrynoides asperginis) had been established in captivity, and
at lower abundance than historically, and populations fluctuate more than 2000 animals were reintroduced to the site in 2013,
with climate patterns [56]. Burrowes ef al. [56] proposed a despite the fact that chytrid has never been eliminated from
synergism between disease and climatic conditions to explain any site where it occurs. Many kinds of laboratory and field
fluctuations. They proposed that during the dry season when studies are needed to explain amphibian—chytrid history at
these frogs aggregate in retreat sites, the localized high density Kihansi Gorge, and across Africa.
promotes the spread of Bd, and highly infected individuals die
in the retreat site. It is not known how this Bd-GPL lineage got (ii) Asia
to the island; however, severe outbreaks of chytridiomycosis Studies in Asia are likely to be very enlightening in under-
on other Caribbean islands such as the extirpation of mountain standing the history of the amphibian—chytrid system. Bd is
chicken frogs (Leptodactylus fallax) on Dominica and Montserrat widely distributed throughout Asia [67] and has been present
[57] have been caused by Bd-GPL, showing that this lineage is in the region since at least 1911 [68], but no reports exist of
actively island-hopping across this region. disease-driven mortality or population declines [67]. Many dis-
tinct genotypes are being described from the regions, including
(v) Salamander chytrid Japan [69], Korea [70] and India [71] as well as Bsal [58]. The