length, curl, growth pattern, shedding and hairlessness are fine mapping, the underlying mutation was found to be an
among those that have been associated with specific insertion of 167 bp in the 3’ non-coding region of the RSPO2
mutations (figure 1). We review current thinking regarding gene (p= 10°’). The trait is under strong selection within a
each of these and present new data on hairlessness in dogs. number of breeds and probably affects mRNA stability.

The RSPO2 gene interacts with the Wnt gene to activate
B-catenin [16]. Wnt signalling is required for hair follicle
2. Fur growth pattern, curl and length as breed development [17] and the Wnt-B-catenin pathway is critical

in the development of hair follicle tumours in humans [18].

traits Such tumours are reportedly most common in dogs with
For many dog breeds the length, degree of curl and hair furnishings [19]. Together, these facts make a strong case
growth pattern are a key part of the breed standard. For that RSPO2 is indeed responsible for the phenotype of
each trait, some breeds adopt rigorous standards, while furnishings, a result that has since been replicated [8-10].
others allow a small amount of variation. For each fur-related trait we mapped, we used a similar

R-spondin 2 (RSPO2) is one of three genes we identified in strategy as above [15] ruling out false positives due to popu-
2009 that contribute enormously to the overall appearance of lation substructure, a common problem in dog genetic
dogs [15]. ‘Furnishings’ is a term that refers to the presence studies, and performing a second validation using a unique
of coarse fur growth in a pattern that resembles a moustache dataset. Finally, we undertook fine mapping of each primary
and eyebrows, such as in the Schnauzer and Scottish Terrier locus to find a haplotype defining the critical gene and even-
(figure 1b). This pattern corresponds to a coat type called tually a mutation. This strategy was used to find a gene
wire-haired in many otherwise short-haired breeds of dog underlying fur length which we now know is controlled, at
describing a phenotype of coarse, bent guard hairs that stick least in part, by one or more variants in the fibroblast growth