
(PDE) MirA

pdeL

csgG (expression)

csgD csgE csgF

Peseo

Figure 2. Regulatory circuits of gene expression exerted by the trigger PDEs PdeR and Pdel of F. coli. (a) At low cellular c-di-GMP levels, PdeR inhibits DgcM and the
transcription factor MIrA by direct interaction and, as a consequence, the biofilm regulator CsgD is not expressed. The fact that PdeR also inactivates the inhibitor—i.e.
c-di-GMP—of its own inhibitory action on DgcM/MIrA, sets up a positive feedback loop that stabilizes the inhibition of DgcM/MIrA by PdeR (i.e. the (sgo™ state).
When c-di-GMP levels increase (e.g. during entry into stationary phase when the RpoS-dependent Dgck is induced, whereas PdeH is no longer expressed and its cellular
level decreases), binding and cleavage of c-di-GMP by PdeR releases DgcM and MIrA. This allows DgcM to act as a direct co-activator for MIrA in the transcriptional
activation of the csgDEFG operon and to also produce c-di-GMP (representing a positive feedback loop that stabilizes the (sgd™ state) [30]. As a transcription factor,
CsgD directly activates the expression of the subunits of amyloid curli fibres and indirectly stimulates the production of the exopolysaccharide cellulose. CsgE, CsgF and
CsgG are components of the curli secretion machinery [71]. (b) PdeL activates its own expression in a manner that is inhibited by high c-di-GMP levels. In this circuit, two
nested positive feedback loops seem to accelerate a decrease of the cellular c-di-GMP levels below a certain threshold: (i) positive autoregulation of PdeL and (ii) as a
PDE, Pdel inactivates its own inhibitor c-di-GMP. This circuit could allow rapid and highly efficient switching to low cellular c-di-GMP levels and therefore a rapid stop of
expression or activity of biofilm-related functions [50]. For additional details, see §§5 and 6.

transcription factor Cra as noticed earlier [77]. Intriguingly, the function of the bound macromolecule in response to
positive autoregulation by PdeL was observed only under sensing—by binding and degrading—c-di-GMP.