workers [4] highlighting that the relative balance of accuracy, of interoceptive signals as captured by the interoceptive
sensibility and awareness dimensions could account for cogni- evaluation was modulated only in relation to anxiety after
tive, emotional and clinical associations of interoceptive ability. inhibition of anterior insula. This underpins its pivotal role

Going beyond IAc, cTBS of right anterior insula and for processes related to anticipation of aversive stimuli or
right somatosensory cortices led to an immediate increase anxiety disorders [55]. According to the model of Smith &
in interoceptive sensibility as assessed by self-report. As Lane [29], it might be argued that inhibiting anterior insula
former studies found a correlation between insula activation functions could have primarily disturbed ‘whole-body pat-
and sensibility [5], and this facet of interoceptive processing terns’ and therefore, the reduction of [Ac becomes evident
refers especially to the idea of ‘whole-body’ patterns as intro- or conscious to the participants, leading to a corresponding
duced by Smith & Lane [29], a modulation of interoceptive decline in metacognitive beliefs of perception security. In a
sensibility was assumed to occur after insula stimulation. similar way, together with models of ‘interoceptive predic-
The fact that cTBS inhibiting somatosensory cortices also tion error’, this could explain the increases of self-reported
modulated interoceptive sensibility in the same direction as subjective feelings of anxiety and arousal and more aver-
cTBS over right anterior insula highlights that, within the sive feelings after inhibition of anterior insula. Considering
assumed hierarchical structure of interoception, hampering the role of the insula in integrating bodily representations,
a region processing a discrete body feature leads to greater affective and cognitive representations and expectations, dis-
‘noise’ in the whole system. Referring to predictive coding turbance of its function should evoke an incoherence or
[38], the anterior insula is the key error module that might mismatch of the patterns of ongoing real-time basic body
detect such ‘noise’ in the system. This might then lead to feedbacks, subjective feelings and beliefs about it, as well as
an increase of attentional processes examining ongoing dis- predictions of bodily reactions based on experience. This
crete body sensations and therefore explain why our disturbance of the interoceptive network in its basic function,
participants were more aware of a variety of bodily sen- as subserved by the insula, may thus induce feelings of gen-
sations including cardiac and respiratory functions, but also eral discomfort, arousal and anxiety, i.e. feelings of a vague
trembling, temperature/sweating and gastrointestinal sen- conscious notion that an otherwise intact interplay bet-