the STE/STE11/SSK protein kinase The aetiological agents of infectious disease impose a huge
To examine the impact of selection on the different C. gattii burden on human society. By understanding their biology,
clades, we measured dy/dg (w) values for fixed differences reproduction and mechanisms of infection, we are able
across six subclades of C. gattii (2a, 2b, 2c, 2x, 3a, 3b). A total to assess and discover new strategies for mitigating their
of 859 genes have dy/ds with values greater than 1, which impact. In recent years, fungi have gained widespread attention
can be indicative of relaxed or positive selection (figure 3). for their ability to rapidly emerge and threaten both animal and
No PFAM or GO-term from these genes was enriched (accord- plant species across a global scale [1]. However, many features
ing to two-tailed Fisher's exact test with q-value false-discovery of their genomes that enable them to successfully adapt to infect
rate (FDR) against the remaining gene-sets). However, two diverse hosts and inhabit a wide range of ecological niches
genes of known interest were identified. The first gene remain cryptic [6], especially for newly evolved emerging
(CNBG_1370) is a 1:1 orthologue of C. neoformans H99 Utr2 lineages. The underlying mechanism driving outbreaks
gene (with homology to chitin transglycolase), which is poten- caused by C. gattii has been puzzling researchers for over a
tially involved in capsule biosynthesis [35]. In C. gattii, this decade. Compounding this is the fact that its virulence is
gene is under selection in the recently named VGIIx subclade likely a consequence of adaptations that have evolved for pro-
[24] with dy = 0.0063, dg = 0.0059, w= 1.0792. The second tection against environmental predators such as amoebae [33]
gene (CNBG_0047) is in an orthogroup with C. neoformans (unless it is surviving and escaping out of dead animals).
H99 Cap64-like proteins Cas31 and Cas3, and under selec- Here, we have combined whole genome sequencing with
tion in VGIIb (dy = 0.0028, ds = 0.0023, w= 1.2242). Both phenotypic analysis to identify recent genetic changes that
Cas31 and Cas3 mutants have decreased capsule sizes in might underpin cryptococcal hypervirulence. Our pheno-
C. neoformans, as they are involved in determining the position typic analysis demonstrated that IPR and mitochondrial
and the linkage of the xylose and/or O-acety] residues on the tubularization, but not phagocytosis or expulsion by the

mannose backbone of the capsule [35,36]. host, correlate strongly with hypervirulence. This finding

