learned sequences might be formed through error-based learn- cerebellar nuclei output to the cortex.
ing and then the relevant features from those representations Only one study thus far has examined the effect of cerebellar
could be applied when novel sequences are encountered. tDCS on sequence learning [39]. As a pre-stimulation measure,
Those participants who were better at transfer may be more participants were given a repeating sequence to practice
sensitive to error signals and therefore have more refined and then a retention test. They then received 20 min of anodal
internal models that allow for improved transfer performance or sham stimulation, and then performed the same task
on novel sequences. Interleaved training could improve the as before as a post-stimulation test 35 min after the end of stimu-
development of internal models and therefore ultimately lead lation. Total learning during the course of practice and retention
to an improved foundation for transfer performance. of the practised sequence were examined. After sham stimu-
Although our research highlights the role of the cerebel- lation, participants did not show significant learning over
lum in transfer learning, other previous work has shown practice or sequence-specific learning. By contrast, participants
that the cerebellum is crucial for motor sequence learning, demonstrated greater total learning and sequence-specific
which is supported by the fact that sequence learning is abol- knowledge during practice after anodal tDCS, suggesting that
ished or impaired in patients with cerebellar damage [14-16]. the cerebellar stimulation enhanced subsequent acquisition of
Healthy participants also exhibit cerebellar activity during the same task. Cerebellar tDCS therefore may have improved
motor sequence learning (see meta-analysis in [17]) and cer- error detection during subsequent acquisition [33]. However,
ebellar grey matter volume has been associated with the the lack of a cathodal stimulation group leaves it unclear as to
rate of improvement in sequence learning [18]. The cerebel- whether this effect is polarity-specific or a general enhancement
lum is hypothesized to be crucial to the instantiation of regardless of the polarity of stimulation.
internal models of different actions [19]. In particular, feed- Although we are especially interested in enhancing trans-
forward control requiring anticipation of upcoming events fer performance, which would suggest the use of anodal
in a sequence may be a role for the cerebellum [16,20,21]. stimulation, we have included a cathodal stimulation con-
Using a visuomotor tracking task, Imamizu and co-workers dition in order to be able to better interpret the results. As

[22] have shown that the cerebellum is activated in response anodal and cathodal stimulation appear to have differential