ABC that can be used to support AC inference at test. manner predicted by REMERGE, or by our model very early
The learning occurring in our model’s MSP is distinct in training), then representations of associated items should
from integrative encoding in several respects. First, whereas arise during a trial only after activity has travelled from deep
integrative encoding can occur, in theory, after one presen- to superficial layers of EC. Given that REMERGE depends
tation of each pair, learning in the model’s MSP is slower on strong pattern separation (though pattern separation and
and requires multiple interleaved exposures (akin to cortex subfields were not directly implemented), it would predict
in CLS, [1]). Second, learning in our model’s MSP, with suffi- deficits with a lesion to the TSP during or after learning.
cient exposure, does not depend on or require the TSP, If integrative encoding is used to learn temporal
as demonstrated by the TSP-lesion simulations. Third, learn- regularities, then—as in our model—representations of
ing in our model does not make use of overt reactivation of associated items should be present during the initial pass
transitive associates (electronic supplementary material, through the hippocampus, prior to activity spreading from
figure S4). Relationships are uncovered implicitly as a result deep to superficial layers of EC. Depending on the specific
of the fact that patterns with shared features tend to adopt implementation of the mechanism (which has yet to be
overlapping neural substrates in CA1. In other words, AB instantiated in a neural network model), the TSP may or
and BC become associated not because BC brought AB to may not be required for retrieval after learning is complete.
mind, but simply because AB and BC share B. Speculatively, However, in any implementation, the TSP would be required
the rapid and overt reinstatement required for integrative for encoding the integrated representations, and so lesions to
encoding is perhaps more likely to occur in situations the TSP should disrupt learning.
where pair encoding is made an explicit task requirement, To summarize the two key predictions/differences: (i) if
as is the case in many associative inference but not statistical the learner is relying on recurrence or integrative encoding,
learning studies. When and how integrative encoding might TSP lesions should cause a learning deficit, whereas if the
occur, including whether it happens in the hippocampus learner is relying on the mechanism described in our model
alone or requires interactions with medial prefrontal (static representations acquired through interleaved learning),
cortex—an implicated area involved in processing event TSP lesions should not impair learning. It follows that
structure [19,54—56]—is an important area for future work. infants, if using recurrence or integrative encoding, should