the relevance of the specific cue and its interaction with higher than that of the BS channel, consistent with the lower
other sensory signals in a given situation than with funda- sensitivity and higher noise of RS cones [21].

mental physical and physiological mechanisms. Another
example known since the 1950s is that toads, as opposed to

frogs, do not use colour cues for the optomotor response, (cd) Neural mechanisms of blueness discrimination
even when the chromatic contrast is perfectly visible to ‘Blueness’ signals in anuran retinal ganglion cells and their
them in other behaviours [28,50,51]. brain projections have been studied over several decades (e.g.
The behavioural thresholds provide some hints about the [8,42,54—57]). However, all these studies have been performed
ecological relevance of colour. In the mate choice experiments, at photopic light levels at a time before BS cones were discov-
the male toads used colour for choosing the female models ered [10,11], and thus the blue inputs were automatically
down to 0.3 cd m~, which is the approximate luminance of a attributed to BS rods. The fact is that nothing is known about
clear evening after sunset. Even if this species is primarily noc- the connectivity of BS rods. The observation that GS and BS sig-
turnal or crepuscular, the diel pattern for breeding is flexible, nals have opposite behavioural effects allows no conclusions
and some studies even suggest that B. bufo prefers to mate about the neural level where the opponency is established.
under full moon rather than moonless nights [52]. A similar The extreme blue-sensitivity of the phototactic response,
reasoning can be applied to the prey-catching behaviour. The where just a few photoisomerizations in BS rods when added
luminance threshold for colour vision in this behaviour, to a 10 times higher rate in GS rods triggers aversive behaviour,
around 10~* cd m~, is equivalent to a moonless, clear, starlit suggests that it could rely on comparison of signals transmitted
night. Still darker environments (e.g. prey-catching on a by parallel pathways up close to the motor output. If we trust
cloudy moonless night or under a thick canopy at night) need recent, exceptionally low estimates of dark event rates in
not be dealt with very often. Moreover, even if colour was a rel- BS rods [19], the possibility of a privileged line from these to
evant cue for prey-catching in nature, it is certainly dispensable: the brain appears especially intriguing.
toads will happily go on trying to catch prey in achromatic In the more general context of visual strategies, it comes