
3. Transmission dynam Ics considered to be likely in sexually transmitted infections
Even though transmission is a complex process, in simple because the per-individual rate of sexual contacts does not
models, it is often encapsulated using one parameter, B, the usually increase as population density increases. Frequency-
transmission coefficient (figure 1). We are reminded of dependent transmission is also considered to occur in vector
Anderson and May’s [17, p. 63] warning that ‘direct measure- transmitted diseases, provided that vectors actively move
ment of B is essentially impossible for most infections’. It is further if their hosts are further apart [20]. This is likely to be
true that transmission is to all intents and purposes invisible: the case for flying vectors such as mosquitoes, but perhaps
we cannot place a camera on every microorganism in every less likely for fleas or ticks. Another circumstance engendering
individual at every location and watch a virus or even tape- frequency-dependent transmission would be if the population
worm move between hosts. However, it is perhaps better to was subdivided into groups of similar size, regardless of over-
see Anderson and May’s ‘impossible’ more as a challenge all population size, and within which most of the transmission
than a fact: the goal is to face this multifaceted complexity occurred. Transmission functions may therefore subsume
of transmission, and distil from it useful understanding that several transmission modes.
can be applied to diseases in nature, agriculture and Frequency- versus density-dependent transmission pre-
humans [18]. dicts contrasting thresholds and dynamics, and such
One way of distilling the complexity of the transmission functions are useful for making predictions about disease
coefficient, B, is to consider how the per capita rate at which spread and disease characteristics (table 1). For example,
healthy individuals become infected F, or ‘the force of infec- while in practice, the distinction may not be clear cut or may
tion’, is a function of the number of susceptible and infected be scale dependent, the recognition of the differences between
individuals, S and I, respectively. If F = BI, the force of infec- them has huge policy implications. If the transmission of a dis-
tion increases linearly with number of contacts, and ease (such as a sexually transmitted infection) is indeed purely
transmission is said to be ‘density-dependent’. The simplest frequency dependent, then herd immunity is not operative,
alternative is to assume that transmission depends on the frac- and can no longer be proposed as a tenable reason for policies
tion of individuals that are diseased, in which case the force of of compulsory vaccination. A number of other transmission