threshold at one-tenth of the absolute light intensity of quantum bump. Quantum bumps were first described in
Periplaneta’s threshold [3,9], yet each of its photoreceptors is the lateral compound eye of the horseshoe crab Limulus by 8
able to capture 5 photons s~!. For flying insects the threshold Yeandle [21]. Later on, together with Fuortes, he confirmed 3
probably is at higher absorption rates than for walking ones, that stimulation of dark-adapted Limulus photoreceptors = =
because flight steering requires more visual information and with steady dim light or short flashes produces discrete volt-
thus more photons s~' than terrestrial locomotion. The differ- age bumps with Poisson-distributed timing and occurrence
ences also emphasize how the moth, with its superposition [22]. Similar findings in locust eyes confirmed that these
eyes, is able to capture hundreds of photons s"' at an intensity single photon absorption events occur also in insects [23].
where diurnal flies can no longer be active. The stochastic nature of photon arrival and absorption in

Megalopta and Periplaneta have apposition eyes, yet they the photoreceptor causes variance or noise of ,/N photons
both are nocturnal, and the bee is even an active flyer. In for every N photons absorbed. This shot noise increases rela-
fact, Megalopta retains its flight and landing performance tive to the signal with decreasing photon availability, until
under starlight intensities [3]. Although the apposition eye photoreceptors can no longer detect contrast [24]. Another
is traditionally considered as the day active eye type, struc- source of noise is the inability of the photoreceptors to pro-
tural modifications, such as increased lens and rhabdom duce identical responses to sequentially absorbed photons.
diameter, may facilitate its operation at low light conditions. This transducer noise, i.e. variation in phototransduction,
Moreover, various neuroanatomical and functional adap- manifests itself as differences in bump latency, duration
tations, resulting in spatial and temporal summation within and amplitude. Fuortes and Yeandle also reported bumps
the visual pathway from photoreceptors to the brain, can appearing in total darkness. This dark noise, arising from
improve information acquisition from unreliable visual the spontaneous (thermal) activation of phototransduction
inputs. Spatial summation is preferred when temporal reso- components, can severely limit vision. However, insect eyes
lution cannot be sacrificed, such as during flight and generally have very little dark noise. For example, locust
landing in bees [13,14]. Slow tracking of small moving targets photoreceptors show a dark noise rate of only 10h? [23].
in darkness generally relies on temporal summation, as in In Drosophila, the dark noise rate is clearly higher (approx.