ere. First, the NCC concept does not state that a given NCC sing [185]. Most patients who suffer from pure word
network needs to be exclusive for, for example, auditory percep- deafness also have some deficit in recognizing non-speech
tion, just that its activation is sufficient (i.e. neural ‘degeneracy’ auditory objects, also referred to as auditory (object) agnosia
208]). Thus, conscious experience may continue because a [228]. Only a few reports exist that have tested both and
parallel system may also be sufficient to give rise to conscious found a dissociation of impaired speech perception and
auditory perception. Second, the lesion-related lack of conscious object agnosia [229,230], and a dissociation of lesion sites
experience cannot be taken as proof that the lesion involves the that favour one over the other has not been established. In
CC. For example, ascending auditory pathway is expected to summary, observations based on bilateral cortex lesions pro-
be necessary but not sufficient for auditory experience; their vide multiple lines of evidence for a role of AC in perceptual
destruction is expected to abolish conscious auditory experience awareness of sound identity. Lastly, while AC is very likely
but their activation, per se, is insufficient for it. part of constitutive areas giving rise to the awareness of
Keeping these limitations in mind, a relevant and much- sound source presence given overwhelming neuroimaging
debated syndrome is cortical deafness [209]. Analogous to evidence and the fact that large-scale bilateral lesions to AC
vision [210,211], cortical deafness had been expected with bilat- usually result in profound acute deafness, most patients
eral lesions of the primary AC; however, convincing cases have with such lesions typically recover their sound sensitivity
been scarce [212]. Many patients with extensive bilateral AC after some time. Thus, whether AC is absolutely necessary
lesions are profoundly deaf acutely, but typically regain basic for basic conscious audition remains unclear.
sound sensitivity [213] and even basic (if impaired) discrimina- In contrast with the visual system, unilateral lesions of the
tory functions [214,215]. However, more complex functions AC do not typically cause impaired perceptual awareness
such as speech and music perception and sound-source of contralateral sounds; only in the presence of synchronous
identification typically remain well below normal [216,217]. stimulation in the ipsilesional ear is awareness of contralateral
Similar observations have been made after bilateral removal stimuli typically impaired [231-233]. Similar extinction
of auditory core fields in monkeys [218], which cause initial phenomena are observed in patients with neglect [58,234,235].
unresponsiveness and subsequent threshold elevations, prob- Neglect is a multimodal disorder subsequent to right-hemi-
ably indicating elementary auditory processing deficits with sphere, peri-sylvian lesions, which typically involves reduced