discussion exists about the population dynamical impact of the many studies that show catastrophic impacts of climate
changes in climatic means and variability [28,33]. Such issues extremes, but that do not consider the impacts of means
are important because the bulk of the biological research and variability nor manipulate them independently (see
focuses on changes in climate means, while the effects of reviews [10,17]).
extremes and variability are often not studied, but could be Possibly these contrasting results can be (partly) reconciled:
crucial for making reliable predictions and an integrative climatologists suggest that current changes in climate extremes
understanding of impacts of climate change [33]. However, are typically caused by changes in the mean climate (the entire
how does one separate the often concurrent impacts of changes distribution shifting; figure 4a) [2], and thus changes in
in climatic means, variability and extremes [34]? extremes and means are often correlated. Studies that assess

Problematically, increased climatic variability is often the impacts of extremes while not accounting for the confound-
equated with more extremes in the literature, in the sense ing effects of changing climatic means may thus over-attribute
that studies on organisms’ responses to variability are typically impacts to extremes, while in fact they also should be partly
considered to also be on how they deal with extremes. How- attributed to correlated changes in mean (and the reverse
ever, increased climatic variability is only one cause of more holds for studies on changes in climate means that ignore
climate extremes (figure 4b), but there are others (figure 4a,c; correlated changes in extremes, or variability).

shift in mean or skew) (e.g. [2] and references therein). A
clear distinction between the different aspects of climate

change is also important because changes in climate extremes (b) An alternative view on attribution

or variability can have distinct biological impacts, as they can An alternative view is to focus less on attributing impacts to
act via different mechanisms. For example, climate extremes changes in means, variability and extremes, but instead take a
may cause adaptations in thermal tolerance to evolve (e.g. more holistic approach of climate change by modelling how