tive to each other, the L5 loop glides along the S13 helix, by the length of one codon; the intersubunit rotation is
which may act as a ruler, allowing contacts to be formed fully reversed and the ribosome is reset to its post-transloca-
via salt bridges at multiple repeats of the helix turn [28,79]. tional state, a process which involves re-establishment of the
Juxtaposition of GRASP-painted proteins L5 and S13 in the physical barrier. The triggering event for this stage of translo-
canonical and fully rotated states of the ribosome [28] and cation has been thought to be GTP hydrolysis on EF-G, but
subsequent electrostatic calculations [79] confirmed that the interpretation of newer results by the Ermolenko group
subunits are stabilized by electrostatic interactions at the suggests that GTP hydrolysis and the second stage of translo-
two ends of their relative rotation movement. Thus, the pic- cation might not be strictly coupled [32]. The most detailed
ture emerges of a malleable bridge that does not offer picture of this stage of translocation was recently obtained
strong resistance and undergoes rapid changes during inter- by the Blanchard laboratory [91], in which three transient
subunit rotation, but exhibits energetic preferences, via intermediates are identified that can be trapped by anti-
charge interactions, for intersubunit positions at both ends biotics. The last two of these states are believed to
of the rotation range. Bridge B1b has in fact been implicated interconvert through Brownian motion, until relocking takes
in the control of translocation in yeast [80]. Its immediate place. Remarkably, these authors found that EF-GeGDP
neighbour, Bla, is formed by a contact between the A-site remains engaged with the ribosome throughout this entire
inger, helix 38 of 23S rRNA, and proteins S13/S19. The process, until the final POST state of the ribosome, with a
long, bent helix of the A-site finger may be thought of as a single tRNA in the P site, is reached.
mechanical lever that, through its contact with the small- Interesting in this context are smFRET data of Adio et al.
subunit proteins, guides the small subunit in its movement [92]. The authors explain the catalytic power of EF-G in trans-
81]. A mutation leading to truncation of helix 38, and location (50 000-fold [32]) by the effect of its binding to the
thereby abolition of its contacts with S13 and S19, accelerates ribosome on the free-energy landscape of the rotating ribo-
mRNA-tRNA translocation but leads to enhanced frameshift some: upon binding of EF-G, a strongly increased dynamic
activity [82], reinforcing the view of bridge Bla as another behaviour of the ribosome is observed, prompting the
ine-tuning control element. Because both bridges Bla and authors to conclude that ‘the engagement of EF-G alters the
Blb engage the small-subunit head, the constraints they energetics of translocation towards a flat energy landscape