(b) MACPF signature motif

GGX,,W motif |

327 330

Figure 1. Structure and sequence conservation of MACPF proteins. (a) Structure of representative MACPF/CDC superfamily proteins: murine perforin-1 (PDB code:
3NSJ), Plu-MACPF of P. luminescens (PDB code: 20P2), human ASTN2 (PDB code: 5J67) and bacterial perfringolysin 0 (PFO, PDB code: 1PFO). The MACPF domains are
coloured in blue with the transmembrane helix hairpins (TMHs) highlighted in red. The MACPF signature motif (Y(F)-G-T(S)-H-X7-G-G, where X is any amino acid)
which maps to one of the central -strands is coloured in orange. The other conserved region (GGX,W) maps to a helix (pointed with a green arrow), and the
conserved tryptophan residue with its side chain facing towards the centre of the molecule is shown as green spheres. The C-terminal domains (CTDs) are coloured in
aquamarine. ASTN2 lacks the conserved GGX,W region and PFO (representative of cholesterol-dependent cytolysins) has no directly detectable sequence homology to
the perforin-like MACPF proteins. The dashed line indicates the topological domain boundaries between the MACPF domain and CTD, to highlight the fact that
MACPF proteins generally contain a large head domain (MACPF domain and other affiliated domains) and a shorter CTD region. (b) HMM logo representation of the
two most conserved regions in the MACPF domain proteins. The MACPF/CDC signature motif features prominent glycine residues. The GGX,W motif highlights a
conserved tryptophan residue. The HMM logo was downloaded from the Pfam website (http://pfam.xfam.org) and the numbering below the motifs is according to
human perforin-1 (Uniprot P14222).

luminescens revealed that MACPFs and CDCs belong to one For most of the MACPF/CDC proteins studied so far, the
homologous family of proteins [7-9]. MACPF/CDC domains only basis for activity properly established is the oligomeriza-
are generally flat in shape, featuring four central twisted tion of many subunits in order to generate a pore-forming
6-strands decorated by two sets of helices (termed transmem- assembly [11-16]. Binding to a target membrane serves the
brane hairpins, TMHs) positioned on either side of the B-sheet basic function of concentrating monomeric subunits on a
(figure 1a). Although the overall fold of the MACPF domain is planar substrate, and this is often accomplished by a C-terminal
conserved, there are substantial differences between specific domain of various (so far, B-sheeted) forms following the