
potential factors driving grouping patterns.

An intriguing question emerging from these results is why
(e) Stable and optimal group sizes some primate groups persist above the optimal group size. For
Across and within mammalian species, there can be large example, long-term monitoring of wild baboons by the Ambo-
variation in the extent to which group size and composition seli Baboon Research Project (ABRP) reveals a long tail in the
remain stable. At one extreme, groups are highly fluid in upper end of the distribution of group size (figure 1), exceed-
their social organization and subgroups of variable members ing the optimal group size predicted by Markham ef al. [78].
form frequently; at the other extreme, groups are highly In the broader ecological literature, researchers assume that
stable over long time periods and permanent group fissions individuals move freely between groups as a reflection of an
or fusions occur infrequently (reviewed in [60]). This variation individual’s own best interests. In this sense, a group at optimal
in the spatial and temporal cohesion of group members size is extremely attractive to an immigrant, despite the fact that
(fission—fusion dynamics) provides an opportunity to investi- a new comer’s immigration would cause the group size to
gate how individuals balance group size trade-offs in socially increase above the optimum and therefore, the fitness of
complex settings. In particular, it presents a natural experiment other group members to decline [61]. Considering the impor-
for examining how optimal group size, defined as the group tance of not simply the number but the identity of other
size ‘yielding maximum individual fitness’ [61], varies in group members, fissioning in primates presents an important
response to changing social and ecological pressures. The gen- departure from these basic assumptions. Given the potential
eral consensus is that fissions reflect an imbalance between selective advantage individuals have in being able to adjust
large groups and resource availability as mediated through their grouping behaviour to current ecological conditions,

intragroup competition for resources [62-65]. By contrast, factors potentially constraining plasticity and limiting the

