migration or hibernation) that are predominantly controlled by GnIH neurons are activated by food restriction, and the infusion | 4 |

an endogenous circannual clock that is entrained by, but not of GnlH inhibits sexual motivation [54]. The inhibitory effects of
dependent on, changes in photoperiod [39,40]. In these species, stress on reproductive function are also likely to be mediated by a
circannual rhythms persist under constant environmental con- GnIH, as stress hormones (glucocorticoids) can directly induce s
ditions (including continuous light or dark) for the lifetime of GnlH transcription [55]. GnIH is also expressed in the gonads, a
the animal with a free-running period that deviates slightly where it may play a role in the local inhibition of sex steroid — 2
from 12 months [40,41]. Although photoperiodic species secretion in response to stress [56]. Relative levels of leptin, ghree  S
differ fundamentally from circannual species in that they fail lin and GnIH therefore could reflect an organism’s state of =
to exhibit persistent approximately 12 month rhythms under adiposity and rates of food intake and energy expenditure, =
constant photoperiod, much of the molecular machinery that and therefore its acute capacity to fuel reproduction on a capital “S
underlies seasonal timing in these groups is probably shared versus income basis. However, we do not yet understand the ©
[42]. In fact, some species that are typically regarded as photo- mechanisms through which exogenous capital (ie. a food = -
periodic, such as the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris), will hoard) influences reproductive timing, though we speculate =
display components of circannual rhythms of physiology and this could occur via direct effects of neurobiological reward =
behaviour when maintained on exactly 12 h light : 12 h dark systems on the RF-amides that stimulate or inhibit reproduction. -
photoperiod [43]. In strongly circannual species, however, Our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie 2
the timing of annually recurring life-cycle events is controlled seasonal timing at different phases of the annual life cycle S
by the circannual clock itself; in these species, changes in lags behind progress made in defining the neuroendocrine cir- w
photoperiod entrain the circannual clock but changes in day- cuits that trigger activation of the reproductive axis. For = 'Y
length do not immediately trigger the onset or termination example, while nearly 100 mammals in seven different orders 5
of seasonal physiologies and behaviours, such as hibernation are known to undergo delayed implantation affecting timing of Ss
and reproduction [41]. In these species, the PT thyrotrophs birth, we are only beginning to understand the molecular = &
are strong candidates for independently driving circannual mechanisms that underlie this process [27]. In large mammals,
rhythms in the absence of a photoperiodic signal [29]. In con- adjusting the length of gestation is an important mechanism for