tate group fission if they are not defused. Some of these are in humans forms the basis of the ability known as mentalizing
owing to the effects of energy bottlenecks (low ranking ani- (or theory of mind) and the ability to model the social world ina
mals are excluded from the best food sources); others arise virtual mental environment. Not only do individuals’ mentaliz-
as a consequence of the effects that even low levels of harass- ing abilities correlate with the size of their social networks in
ment have on female menstrual endocrinology [157,158] and humans [114,175], but they also correlate with the volume of
consequential loss of fertility [159-162]. These fertility costs core regions in the brain, especially in the prefrontal cortex
are not widely appreciated, but they have very significant and the temporal lobes [113,115]. While formal theory of
consequences for females’ fitnesses. If they are not mitigated, mind is probably an exclusively human (but possibly also
females risk being functionally infertile. great ape [176-178]) competence, the capacity to handle
Normally, these stresses are defused by animals leaving alternative causal sequences (i.e. propositionally structured
the group (the solution widely adopted in fission—fusion descriptions of the world) is a uniquely anthropoid ability [69].
forms of sociality, even among primates [15]). However, most That these social cognitive abilities may form a scaled
primates do not have fission—fusion sociality. Instead, anthro- continuum across anthropoids is implied by the fact that com-
poid primates solve these problems through grooming-based parative neuroimaging studies indicate that the human and
coalitions that protect their members against harassment by macaque neocortex is organized in the same way for social
other individuals in the group [163]. These coalitions provide functions [179]. Indeed, tractography studies have recently
both active defence when threatened by others (e.g. gelada shown that humans and macaques have the same white
[164]) and a form of passive deterrence (monkeys are less matter tracts connecting the ventral prefrontal cortex with the
likely to attack individuals who have powerful allies, even temporal lobes that, in humans, are associated with the
when those allies are not in view [165]). Being able to keep theory of mind (or mentalizing) network [180]. This brings us
absent individuals in mind at the same time as physically back full circle. This kind of cognitive complexity is not an
present individuals is cognitively very demanding. This is all-or-none phenomenon like formal theory of mind, but a
equivalent to being able to compare the outcome of two differ- quantitatively varying one that is directly related to group
ent behavioural strategies, and depends on both being able to size [109]. As the demand for this increases with group size,
inhibit prepotent action (holding back from attacking an indi- it necessitates a proportionally bigger brain to support it, and