
tonin offset [149]. Finally, the interindividual timing of sleep
was more variable in the community with access to electricity.

7. An ecol 0g ical a pp roach to understandi ng This finding is consistent with the fact that sleep timing in indi-
viduals in the community under natural daylight was tightly

human sl eep linked to sunrise and sunset and suggests that natural daylight
Humans spend about a third of their life sleeping. As in other serves as a common Zeitgeber in this community, as it does in
animals, understanding the function(s) of sleep calls for its other animals (see the examples of blue and great tits in §6).
study in the natural environment. However, the extensive Interestingly, the earlier sleep onsets and longer sleep times
body of work on human sleep has primarily been conducted in the Toba/Qom community without electricity were evident,
in artificial laboratory environments. One of the challenges despite the fact that participants from this community included
(and opportunities) in studies of human sleep is that we quickly proportionately more adolescents than the community with
and dramatically change our ‘natural’ environment, thereby electricity. Adolescents in industrialized societies are known
removing ourselves from some of the selective pressures that to have a later ‘chronotype’, the preferred sleep time [150].
shaped our sleep, while exposing ourselves to new ones. To pro- This suggests that extremely late chronotypes only manifest
vide insights into ancestral sleep patterns, it may be most when people can control their own exposure to artificial
informative to examine sleep in societies that have changed light, and is consistent with the disappearance of late chrono-
little over recent time. In addition, comparisons between indi- types in a group of participants after transitioning from
viduals living in those societies and individuals from those modern living conditions to a natural light : dark photoperiod
societies now living in an industrialized environment may while camping [151]. Other field (questionnaire-based) and
reveal plasticity in human sleep, as well as new selective laboratory studies revealed that light [152] and social demands
forces and associated responses that are shaping our sleep. [153] have a large, even detrimental effect, on sleep in people
