the host. Fortunately, however, B-LPD remains highly anti- lular genetic change, has great potential to identify those
genic and, in a post-transplant setting, will regress if genomic changes that EBV infection renders redundant.
immunosuppression is reduced to allow a recovery of T cell Table 1 summarizes the essential characteristics of the
competence or if the disease is specifically targeted by adop- EBV-associated B lymphomas and their subtypes, including
tive transfer of EBV latent antigen-specific T cells. their degrees of EBV association, and their distinct patterns
Despite its potent antigenicity, EBV does successfully of EBV latent antigen expression. For ease of presentation
infect and establish persistence in the naive host. This very these patterns are designated Latencies I (EBNA1 only), II
likely reflects the ability of some growth-transformed B cells (EBNA1, LMP1 and LMP2) or III (full latent gene expression),
in vivo to downregulate latent antigen expression and though it should be remembered that this classification is not
switch to a truly latent resting state, thereby escaping always hard and fast; in particular, tumours expressing
immune detection. How this occurs is still poorly under- EBNA1 and low levels of LMP2 blur the boundary between
stood, yet is relevant to the broader question of EBV Latencies I and II, while different tumour types designated
lymphomagenesis. Thus the fact that all B cell subsets are sus- Latency II can differ significantly in LMP1 and/or LMP2
ceptible to virus infection yet long-term virus carriage is protein levels (see table 1 footnote for further qualification).
restricted to memory B cells suggests that, initially, virus- These different latency programmes have clear implications
transformed cells either pass through a germinal centre for the visibility of tumours to the T cell system and bring
(GC) reaction (i.e. exploit the physiologic route whereby anti- into question the relationship between lymphoma risk and
gen-activated B_- cells somatically mutate their ost immune status. An absolute dependence upon
immunoglobulin (Ig) variable gene sequences and progeny immune impairment is clear in the case of EBV-driven
with improved antigen avidity are positively selected into B B-LPD lesions, where EBV-transformed cells grow out oppor-
cell memory) or actively generate a GC-like environment tunistically in the absence of T cell control. However, the
and use individual latent cycle proteins at particular phases situation with respect to the three main EBV-associated B
to mimic the selection process [2]. Whatever the precise cell lymphomas is more complex. On the one hand most of
details, it seems likely that EBV-infected B cells will enter/ these lymphomas, including those that are EBV-positive,
re-enter GC reactions either during virus colonization of the arise in individuals who are apparently immunocompetent,