sperm greatly outnumber eggs). Lower relatedness reduces however, require a less generalizable model with age-
the benefit of care as the increase in offspring survival has dependent parental decisions. We do not believe this would
to be discounted by relatedness. They also showed that change the main message of the model though).
female-only care is more likely when there is stronger Fromhage & Jennions [14] next produced a ‘two-trait’ sex
sexual selection on males (k >k; for why this is likely see role model for the evolution of both the time spent caring
the description of Lehtonen et al. [8] in §2). These findings, (T, T) and investment in a sexually selected trait (x, x) that
while tainted by concerns about how fitness was calculated, causes the bearer to mate more rapidly upon entering the
agreed with elegant, earlier arguments of Queller [9] as to mating pool. The cost of the sexual trait was uniformly
why females care more than males. higher mortality when competing or caring. The result was

Fromhage & Jennions [14] recently revised Kokko & clear: evolution of a sexually selected trait promotes care by
Jennions [26]’s models, finding that a key result of the original only one sex. If sex A cares even slightly more than sex B
null model did not hold up: there was, in fact, no stabilizing (e.g. because i # 1), there is a relatively greater fitness
selection on sex roles for parental care. Instead, selection benefit to B of decreasing the time spent waiting to mate
merely stabilized the total duration of care provided, regard- because they are more common in the OSR ([19]; see §5). B

less of the relative contribution of each sex. This result can be therefore invests in the sexual trait. This, however, increases


(b) (c)

0 1 2 1.0 1.1 0 1 2 3.0 1 2 3
adult sex ratio adult sex ratio adult sex ratio adult sex ratio

Figure 3. The proportion of male care (of the total care provided by both sexes) as a function of the ASR (males per female), when (a) the ASR is manipulated by