of becoming incarcerated as youth from the poorest White of Black men can affect the relative bargaining power of
families [63]. women and men in heterosexual relationships, and can

The extent to which the high rate of incarceration among affect rates of marriage and cohabitation, and sexual network
Black men affects ASRs is evident when comparing total US composition and STI transmission. These consequences are
population ASRs with those calculated after removing the described in greater detail below.

prison population. Using Census 2010 data, table 1 shows
that the national Black population ASR was only 93.38

(0.483) in the 15-49 years of age range, but is 88.34 (0.469) (a) Social exchange, and gender and power theories
after removing the estimated male and female populations in Male scarcity is hypothesized to effect heterosexual behaviour
prisons. Most prisons are not located in urban areas. In fact, by impacting dyadic power in male-female partnerships [20].
in many states’ prisoners are often incarcerated in locations The idea that the ASR can help to shape sexual relationships is
hundreds of miles from their homes [64]. This has the effect consistent with Social Exchange Theory, which suggests that
not only of destabilizing the family connections of those impri- satisfaction with relationships depends on prior expectations,
soned, but also of transferring political power from urban comparison with alternatives, and investments made in the
minority areas to rural non-minority areas. Prisoners are relationship [20,72,73]. These evaluations may or may not be
counted by the Census as residing in the locations of the made explicitly. Applied to sexual relationships, Social
prisons, and these data are used to apportion political rep- Exchange Theory is modelled on an economic market where
resentation [65,66]. For example, because there are relatively individuals seek sexual and romantic partners, and dyadic
few prisoners in Philadelphia, removing them from Census sexual partnerships exist as part of a loosely integrated
data results in an ASR in the Black population that is only market with other individuals and dyads [74].
slightly lower (82.27 [0.451]) than that including prisoners In this regard, Social Exchange Theory can be contextua-
(83.80 [0.456]). lized by considering the Theory of Gender and Power, which