microscopic analysis of structural proteins of the PSD have (area approx. 0.004 pm’) [14]. Nanoclusters of PSD-95 are ©
been able to follow the incorporation of structural proteins characterized by a diameter of approximately 100 nm (area s
over time after LTP induction [8,9]. These studies show that approx. 0.008 pum?) [14] and are thus roughly similar in size to &
two structural proteins of the PSD, PSD-95 and Homer, do AMPAR clusters.
not increase during early LTP but do increase during late Such visualization of synapses reveals that the number
LTP [8,9]. Thus, a strong working hypothesis is that LTP of nanoclusters within a synapse can vary. The probability
induction produces slowly developing _ trans-synaptic distribution for the number of AMPAR nanoclusters within
growth of the synapse and that it is this structural change a spine is shown in figure 1c; more than 80% of synapses
that encodes long-term memory. contain one or more AMPAR nanoclusters. Importantly,

An important recent study [13] provided the first estimate of some synapses have zero AMPAR nanoclusters and thus
the number of stable states that could be encoded by synapse are likely to correspond to AMPA-silent synapses [19-22].
size. This study took advantage of the fact that some axons Figure 2 shows how PSD area (as measured in [14] by
make two synapses onto the same target cell, synapses that are fitting super-resolution dSTORM images using two-
likely to have similar activity history. The main finding is that dimensional anisotropic Gaussian functions) varies with the
such synapses have nearly identical size and are on spines of number of AMPAR nanoclusters. The open circle represents
nearly identical size (measured by EM). On the other hand, silent synapses that contain no AMPAR nanoclusters,
such pairs differ dramatically in size from each other. A simple whereas solid data points correspond to synapses with one
model of the data suggested potential rules of memory grad- or more AMPAR nanoclusters. In the simplest model,
ation: (i) that a lower limit on the number of distinguishable synapses would be composed of an integral number of sub-
size states is 26; and (ii) that these states differ in size by an incre- units (we will use the term ‘module’), each of which would
ment proportional to their size (ie. distinguishable states do not contain either no nanocluster or one nanocluster. Fitting the
differ by a quantal value). data in figure 2 with a line (A =1 x Ayodule) through the

The above analysis of synapse structure was based on EM points for 1, 2, 3 nanoclusters yields a module size of