

routes [47]. However, an interesting observation is that the synthesis or be converted via pyruvate carboxylase to OAA, | 11 |

model suggests the latter route is used under conditions of which enters the TCA cycle. The latter route is supported by
high glycerol availability. Previous analysis of this model [31] the experimentally observed increase in lactate concentration a
suggests that photorespiration becomes active as a result data and the increased respiratory rate. s
of supraoptimal light intensities. The increased photorespira- The modelling results also suggest increased fluxes to stor- a
tory flux is associated with increased fluxes towards glycine age carbohydrates in the presence of glycerol. This also is = 2
and serine. consistent with our experimental data, although we addition- 5
In contrast, no significant changes were observed in the ally observed an increase in trehalose and mannitol, and not =
cellular levels of serine and glycine in our experimental just chrysolaminarin as predicted by the model analysis. This =
analysis, despite the fact that the levels of several other finding suggests that besides chrysolaminarin, which is the ‘S
amino acids displayed significant changes following the most abundant carbohydrate storage form in diatoms [50], ‘©
addition of glycerol. The relationship between the concen- P. tricornutum can accumulate, at least to some extent, other — 5
tration of a metabolite and the fluxes of the reactions in storage sugars when provided with external organic carbon. =
which it is involved is complex and potentially counterintui- Consistent with this, P. tricornutum possesses a complete set S
tive. However, it is possible to say that if the activities of all of enzymes for the biosynthesis of trehalose and mannose -
reactions in a given pathway increase proportionately, then and we observed that one of them was upregulated by glycerol 2
the fluxes of those reactions will increase by the same pro- (ie. GDP-mannose 4,6-dehydratase, PHATR_25417). More- S
portions while the concentrations of the intermediate over, we identified a putative mannitol dehydrogenase in the w
metabolites will remain unaffected [48]. For instance, it is genome of Phaeodactylum (i.e. PHATH_30246) that is involved x
possible that the enhanced flux towards glycine and serine in the conversion of the mannose into mannitol. This gene, the ©
evaluated by others [45,49] and predicted by our model expression of which is not modulated by glycerol, shows some s
cannot lead to any measurable changes in the concentration homology (approx. 37.2%) with the mannose dehydrogenase =