responding to cheating in these implicitly encoded ‘rules’ growth signals [28].
for cooperation. This is exactly what happens in cancer: cancer cells
The problem of controlling cheating has several solutions, evolve novel genes that allow them to generate proliferative
and the best solution depends on the type of cellular society. signals for themselves [29]. And it does not end there. Cheat-
There are two fundamentally different forms of multicellular- ing can provide the impetus for innovation, selecting for
ity: aggregates of genetically different cells that come together more sophisticated methods of conflict management and
to form a body, and clonal organisms that derive from a cooperation. This is what happened during the evolution of
single cell (e.g. a zygote). The difficulty of controlling cheat- growth regulation systems in multicellular life. Because a
ing when genetically diverse cells come together to form an growth regulation system based on proliferative signalling
organism probably explains why multicellular aggregates, can be easily hijacked, selection favoured a complex system
such as Dictyostelium, are generally smaller and less complex of checks and balances on growth that involves many hor-
than multicellular organisms that develop as a clone from a mones and growth factors whose activity is monitored and
unicellular bottleneck [22,25]. In fact, one viable strategy for controlled by a complex genetic network [30,31].
stabilizing cooperation in aggregative multicellularity is for Cheating can be horizontally transmitted among clonally
the cooperating cells to ‘walk away’ from aggregates where derived multicellular organisms via pathogens. For example,
the burden of cheaters is too high [26,27]. The ability to when human papilloma virus (HPV) causes a chronic infec-

walk away also applies to cheaters, which may spread from tion, it hijacks the host cells, interfering with the p53 and


pRb tumour suppressor proteins, and causing their host cheating in both demographic cooperation and economic 5 |

cells to become cheaters, which may eventually evolve cooperation may both be required for cancer across species
into cancers [32]. [4]. This same review suggested that cancer-like phenomena a
