losses of innovations. In other words, some forms of cellu- persist, via kin selection, if they provide a fitness advantage
lar cheating (that can lead to cancer) do not qualify as to their closely related stem cells, which they can potentially
innovations according to Hochberg et al.’s definition. do through division of labour [40].

But many of the forms of cheating that occur in neo- Resource allocation systems open up the possibility for
plasms clearly fit this definition of innovation, as they cheaters to monopolize resources. The complexity of the insu-
involve the introduction of novel functions and radically lin system [41] may be due to the need to regulate resource
improve the performance of the neoplastic cells. Gain-of- allocation and prevent cells from cheating. Dysregulation
function mutations often dramatically increase proliferation of the insulin system, in the form of diabetes, leads to an
rates, and the innovation of using anaerobic metabolism, increased risk of cancer, thought to be due to a loss of growth
even in the presence of oxygen, increases biosynthesis effi- control [41]. There is evidence that metformin, a diabetes
ciency, further increasing neoplastic cell proliferation rates drug, prevents cancer [42]. Similarly, Crespi & Semeniuk
[28]. In fact, some of the innovations in neoplasms actually have argued that the complexity in the reproductive system
spur on additional innovations, further disrupting the multi- is due to the difficulty of managing cooperation and cheating
cellular body’s proper functioning. For example, the genomes in parent—offspring conflict [43].
of neoplastic cells are often doubled during carcinogenesis, Looking at multicellularity, we see that innovations in
such that the cells have four instead of two copies of all cooperation led to more opportunities for cheating, and
their genes [35]. This then loosens the constraints on further cheating spurs the need for more complex and well-coordi-
innovations in the copy numbers of individual genes or chro- nated forms of cooperation and conflict management [9].
mosomal segments. With more copies of each gene, there are Cell cycle controls help regulate multicellular phenotypes
also more opportunities for cellular innovations: adding or but can be disrupted by cells that proliferate too quickly
subtracting copies of these genes, and modifying some and exploit the body. These cheating opportunities then
copies while keeping at least one pristine copy of genes further spur the evolution of new innovations for
necessary for cell survival. Some genes become isolated on cooperation and conflict control among cells [4,9]. Conflict
pieces of DNA that are not connected to any chromosome, management and policing of cheaters is done in part by