lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase; PAP, phosphatidate phosphatase; PIPLC, phosphoinositide phospholipase C; CPT, choline phosphotranseferase; DGAT diacylgly-
cerol acyltransferase; PDAT, phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase; PGPS, phosphatidylglycerol phosphate synthase; SQD2, sulfoquinovosyltransferase; MGD,
Monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase; DGD, digalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase; and PGD1, galactoglycerolipid lipase. Abbreviations for the substrates (in black)
are as follows: ACP, acyl carrier protein; G3P, glycerol 3-phosphate; lyso-PA, lysophosphatidic acid; PA, phosphatidic acid; PG, phosphatidylglycerol; Pl, phosphatidyl
inositol; PC, phosphatidyl choline; DAG, diacylglycerol; TAG, triacylglycerol; SQDG, sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol; MGDG, monogalactosyldiacylglycerol; and DGDG,
digalactosyldiacylglycerol. The figure is reproduced from a previous study [20], with some modifications.

membranes largely accounts for the TAG accumulation. Because this approach promises sustainable cultivation of
However, after 72h, the oil bodies kept expanding but the intact cells, de novo synthesis would be preferable rather
chloroplast no longer shrank. In this late oil accumulation than breakdown of intracellular components. Nonetheless,
phase, de novo synthesis of TAG through photosynthetic at present, the balance between lipid remodelling and de
CO, fixation could be a major means of TAG accumulation. novo synthesis is uncontrollable because the regulation
This notion is supported by the fact that, even after the mechanisms are poorly understood.

chloroplast membrane tended to be disordered [4] or its
volume decreased [81], the photosynthetic capability did not

reach zero. Therefore, oil accumulation in diatoms seems (c) Oil bodies ac ing as an electron sink
likely to be driven by the coordinated action of membrane Why microalgae accumulate TAGs when exposed to nitrogen
lipid remodelling and de novo TAG synthesis. deprivation is a long-standing question. Although there is no
From the viewpoint of efficient biofuel production, oil clear answer, including detailed underlying mechanisms, one
accumulation driven by de novo synthesis is particularly possibility is based on the electron sink function of TAG syn-
promising. Vinayak et al. [83] proposed a conceptual thesis. Under nitrogen deprivation, cell growth is arrested
approach called ‘diatom milking’ for the extraction and puri- due to a lack of the building blocks of biomacromolecules,
fication of microalgal oils. In this approach, culture medium including proteins and nucleic acids. At the same time,