methylation

Figure 2. Schematic of the impact of short telomeres on murine embryonic stem cell differentiation. As described in Pucci et al. [99], telomere erosion resulted in
downregulation of the de novo DNA methyl transferases (Dnmts), and subsequent destabilization of cell differentiation through an inability to suppress the
pluripotency factors Nanog, Sox2 and Oct4/Pou5F1. Consequently, stem cells were unable to completely and stably respond to differentiation-inducing cues,
and could re-acquire pluripotency gene expression and resume cell proliferation after re-addition of the growth factor LIF (leukaemia inhibitory factor).

increase in telomerase activity leads to telomere elongation ability to repress pluripotency factors such as Nanog. However,
and the acquisition of epigenetic marks characteristic of not all epigenetic changes induced by short telomeres lead to
longer telomeres [91,95,98]. Surprisingly though, critically DNA hypomethylation. For example, Roberts et al. [103] noted
short telomeres appear not only to compromise efficient that gene silencing of a GFP transgene, concomitant with pro-
reprogramming, but also to impair the stability of ESC differen- moter DNA hypermethylation, was observed in mTerc™/~
tiation [99]. In telomerase-deficient ESCs in fact, an increase in mice with short telomeres. Regardless of the precise influence,
expression of pluripotency factors, including Nanog and Tbx3, these data argue that short telomeres may contribute to the
is observed [95,99]. In addition, ESCs and iPS with short already known link between chromatin alterations and
telomeres exhibit a reduced expression of the de novo methyl- ageing [104].

transferases Dnmt3a and/or Dnmt3b [87,91,95,98-100].
Recently, it was found that Tert-deficient ESCs with short

telomeres exhibited an unstable response to differentiation- 5. Alterations in genome-wide expression and
inducing cues such as all-trans retinoic acid and, unlike .
wild-type ESC, could resume proliferation after growth stimu- cell senescence in yeast
lation with the pluripotent cell growth factor LIF [99]. In accord A recent study in yeast also found a marked impact of loss of
with this apparent reversibility in differentiation status, Tert- telomere integrity on gene expression throughout the