or cancer, larger species of mammals live longer. The increase dictions. For example, our model suggests that among smaller S
in lifespan in larger species is an empirical observation dating species, cancer risk should be relatively independent of TL, w
back at least to Francis Bacon in the seventeenth century [37]. while among larger species, longer telomeres should increase “”
While we cannot be certain that this pattern would hold even risk of cancer. This prediction is potentially testable both ©
in the absence of the effects of telomeres and cancer risk, it is within and among species. 3
likely that many other mortality risks are lower in larger Within species, we might expect that larger individuals =
species, most notably predation. should have shorter telomeres to protect against an inherently
Second, we assume that ceteris paribus, the risk of cancer for higher risk of cancer (e.g. cancer incidence increases with adult
a given species will increase not only with lifespan, due to the height in humans [44] as well as with larger body size in
longer time to accumulate oncogenic mutations, but also with breeds of domestic dogs [45]). Regarding associations with TL,
size, due to the increasing number of cells at risk. These increased body size is associated with reduced TL in wild
assumptions have led to the widely discussed Peto’s paradox house sparrows [46] and, in humans, males are larger than
[17], which refers to the fact that large mammals like elephants females and have shorter telomeres [47], even as newborns
and whales do not have a greater cancer incidence as expected [48]. To what extent these associations are related to the cancer-
by their large body size. In this model, we assume the most protective nature of replicative senescence is unknown, but it is
widely accepted solution to Peto’s paradox, which is that consistent with the model and deserves further investigation.
species have evolved cancer suppression mechanisms as an As we note above, our results are based on one specific set
adaptation to the selective pressure of cancer [38]. These mech- of parameter values. While a comprehensive analysis of this
anisms keep the incidence of cancer relatively low across model is beyond the purview of this current study, future
species in the wild [25,39] and account for the lack of corre- work would benefit from at least three extensions. First, it
lation between cancer risk and increased body mass or would be useful to explore a broader region of the possible par-
lifespan in mammalian species [23]. Because large body size ameter space in this model, to draw at least some limits on the
has evolved independently multiple times in the animal king- domain of parameter values that is biological feasible and that
dom, different mechanisms of tumour suppression are generates the same prediction. Second, sensitivity analysis of
expected to have developed. However, cancer still arises to a this model would help to specify those variables that contrib-