
kits are now available for TRF that may help improve inter- but require proliferating cells [34]. Commercial modification
laboratory variations. In addition, due to hybridization kinetics, of interphase Q-FISH, termed high-throughput Q-FISH (HT
telomeres that are relatively short (approx. 2 kb or less) are dif- Q-FISH) [39], can use automated procedures on 384-well
ficult to detect and quantitate (figure 6b). Finally, depending on plates for large-scale studies on fixed lymphocytes. This
the panel of restriction enzymes used, TRF analysis can vary assay is termed Telomere Analysis Technology and is CLIA
widely. For example, using a panel of four different combi- (Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments) certified
nations of restriction enzymes on the same starting material (Lifelength.com). This assay has intra-assay coefficients of
(figure 6c), the human peripheral blood mononuclear cells less than 5%. Flow FISH (similar to Q-FISH) [40] is also a com-
(PBMCs) population of cells can vary, on average, by several mercially available method (Repeatdx.com) that is CLIA
kb. Thus, unless there is a consensus going forward in the certified as a clinical diagnostic tool that determines telomere
field of which restriction enzymes to use, averages in TL fluorescence in individual interphase cells by fluorescence-
cannot easily be compared between laboratories and various activated cell sorting analysis (FACS) technology. Flow FISH
published studies. Using restriction enzymes that provide the can be adapted for modestly higher throughput, thus permit-
shortest overall telomere spreads would be optimal because it ting some larger scale studies, primarily on human
minimizes the inclusion of the X region (e.g. Msel/Ndel or lymphocytes. However, due to the limits on probe hybridiz-
Bfal/CviAII/Msel/Ndel). Despite these variations among ation, Q-FISH methods do not detect fluorescent signals at
different groups, cross-sectional studies of cells from humans telomeres at chromosome ends that have telomeric repeats
at different ages have revealed a general trend for telomere below the threshold for the PNA probe hybridization
loss with increased age in mitotically active tissues [35-38]. (so-called telomere-free ends). Another disadvantage of all

Q-FISH techniques is that the probe may also bind to some
interstitial telomeric sequences (ITSs), which consist of telo-

(c) Quantitative Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization meric repeats located away from chromosome ends in