outcomes, several preliminary regularities could be noted higher than reported previously [44]. Yet, the increase was sig-
(figure 1). A key factor seems to be environmental asymmetry, nificantly higher in cases where CD-strategies were more
including asymmetry of duration (the ratio between durations favourable. With the unlinked rec-locus, population mean fit-
of benign and stressful environmental states) and asymmetry ness decreased when CD-strategies were less favourable.
of selection intensity (the ratio between selection intensities However, when they were more favourable, population
in benign and stressful environmental states). Its effect on mean fitness did not necessarily increase. We also found that
outcomes of competition between recombination strategies invasion speed of the rec-alleles was usually higher when
was the same for the NEQ- and DOM-systems: typically, CD- CD-strategies were more favourable (electronic supplementary
strategies were more advantageous at small-to-moderate material, text S4).
asymmetries, and less advantageous at very high asymmetries The above results refer to situations in which OC-strategies
(figure 1a,b). However, in the DOM-system, in a small number had intermediate RRs. What if the optimal constant RR is
of cases, the CD-strategy failed even at intermediate asym- zero? Intuitively, one would expect that CD-strategies have
metries, despite the fact that the total proportion of outcomes no chance when selection rejects recombination. However,
with fixation of the modifier allele conferring OC-strategy in Gessler & Xu [43] and Hadany & Beker [44] showed that
the DOM-system was nearly four times lower than in the CD-strategies could be favoured in haploids, even in such situ-
NEQ-system (table 1). A similar pattern was observed when ations. We examined selection regimes with zero OC-strategies
comparing ED- and OC-strategies, although the NEQ- and in our diploid-selection model (electronic supplementary
DOM-systems seemed to differ in the interplay between asym- material, table S5). Excitingly, under the unlinked rec-locus,
metry of duration and asymmetry of selection intensity. CD-strategies appeared more favourable than the correspond-
Specifically, in the NEQ-system, a certain minimal asymmetry ing OC-strategies in a considerable proportion of the cases:
of duration was needed for the spread of CD-strategies FD-strategies outcompeted them in 22% and 23% of the cases
whereas in the DOM-system, CD-strategies could spread for NEQ- and DOM-systems, respectively. The corresponding
owing solely to asymmetry of selection intensity, even in an numbers for ED-strategies were 28% and 26%. By contrast,
environment with equally lasting states. Intermediate period under a linked rec-locus, CD-strategies were favoured
lengths included a higher proportion of cases with CD-strategy extremely rarely.