population (whose equilibrium value over time, R, is shown On the other hand, when N.u is sufficiently high, succes-
as a straight line in figure 1b), this allele starts to be selected sive waves of erosion—invasion start to overlap, such that
against, decreasing in frequency, until being eliminated from multiple PRDM9 alleles now coexist in the population. In this
the population. Of note, the activity of a dying allele is typi- polymorphic regime, diversity at the PRDM9 locus is roughly
cally not 0. Instead, it reaches a finite level, whose average proportional to Neu (figure 3) and does not strongly depend on
value (R,.) will be considered further below. the erosion rate vg nor on the fitness parameter a. Furthermore,
As a way to capture the key features of the Red Queen the consequence of an increase in N, is not anymore an accel-
dynamics at stationarity, three summary statistics were eration of the dynamics, as in the succession regime. Instead,
considered: mean recombination activity, genetic diversity when N. increases, PRDM9 diversity increases, such that
at the PRDM9 locus and turnover time (i.e. the decorrelation recombination spreads over a larger number of more weakly
time of genetic composition at the PRDM9 locus). For a given recombining hot spots, thus resulting in an overall decrease
configuration of parameters of the model (effective popu- in the variance of recombination landscapes at the level of
lation size N., mutation rate at the PRDM9 locus u, erosion the population. Conversely, the fact that the recombination
rate at the targets vg, fitness parameter a or B), these three hot spots become weaker exactly compensates for the increase
statistics were averaged over long simulation trajectories. in the strength of biased-gene conversion caused by the
Their scaling behaviour as a function of the four main larger effective population size, and thus hot-spot lifetime
parameters are displayed on figures 2-4. Several points (turnover time) now remains constant as a function of Ne
are noteworthy. (figure 4).

First, the equilibrium recombination rate is suboptimal:
R<1 (figure 2). Equivalently, there is a recombination gap

IR caused by the Red Queen. One question of interest, (b) Analytical approximations: a linearized mean-field

which will be further considered below, is to characterize argument