advantage /disadvantage (if one exists at all) of FD-strategies, assumptions in diploids [46]. Nevertheless, it may evolve
one needs to have variation in fitness in the model among ‘recom- under other assumptions (see [16], as well as results presented
bination-responsive’ genotypes. Models with only two selected herein). Indirect effects alone can drive the evolution of con-
loci, such as those considered in Agrawal et al. [46], can provide dition-dependent recombination in haploids as well [44],
such variation under specific additional assumptions, e.g. which makes this mechanism less restricted than the ‘aban-
cis—trans effect. In contrast to FD-strategies, to assess the evol- don-ship’ one. The ‘abandon-ship’ mechanism may play an
utionary advantage/disadvantage of ED-strategies, one needs important role in haploids. However, even in haploids, it
to have variation among environmental states in the model. The needs a rather specific precondition to work (sensitivity of meio-
model with two states considered in Zhuchenko et al. [16] sis to fitness of the parental haploids). Moreover, because direct
meets this requirement even without variation in fitness effects imply rec-locus linkage to a selected locus, the ‘sphere of
among ‘recombination-responsive’ genotypes. It is worth their influence’ is expected to be limited. Indeed, it is hard to
noting that the FD-strategies considered in our current study assume that each cluster of linked fitness loci has its own local
are not purely ‘environment-free’: RRs here indeed explicitly recombination modifier locus. In fact, recombination control
depend only on fitness, but the latter varies among environ- is a hierarchical system involving many levels: the entire
mental states, which seems biologically reasonable. Our nucleus and cyto-nuclear interactions; chromosome size,
additional simulations showed that such FD-strategies could centromere—telomere gradients and local variation of DNA
be evolutionarily advantageous even in models with two sequence organization; dependence on sex, age and envi-
selected loci—precisely owing to their implicit environmental ronment; chromosome- and segment-specific effects of major
dependence. However, as a self-control experiment, we also rec-genes of the ‘coarse control system’ affecting the basic
imagined ‘pure’ FD-strategies, with RRs depending on mean steps in recombination mechanics; and segment-specific regu-
fitness across the period, ie. when each genotype has the lation of crossover rate by modifier genes of the ‘fine control
same RR in different environmental states, but these RRs are system’ with relatively small effects of individual components
different for different genotypes. The only source of variation [72-77]. Indirect effects do not necessarily imply rec-allele link-

for such FD-strategies (and, therefore, the very precondition age to selected loci. This is a considerable advantage compared