variants) will subsample relatively fewer variants and, as a
result, analyses shortly after the bottleneck could overestimate

(a) Influence of demographic events the consequences of genetic hitchhiking. More notable is
Selection can distort estimates of demographic events. BGS, the different speed of approach to equilibrium shown by the
for instance, generates a consistent excess of low-frequency different regions [111,112]. Because the time to reach equili-
variants at neutral sites resulting in negative Tajima’s D brium after a severe bottleneck mainly depends on the final
[64,92-99]. The predicted magnitude of the skew in the fre- N,, regions with stronger local BGS and, therefore, smaller
quency of variants is particularly evident when incorporating local Ne will reach equilibrium much faster than those with
DFEs with weakly selected mutations and when recombina- weaker local BGS and greater N,. For long periods (in the hun-
tion is reduced or absent, but it is also expected for a wide dreds of thousands of years for Drosophila owing to its large
range of recombination rates as long as the number of sites population size), regions with weak BGS will likely exhibit
under selection is high. In fact, an excess of rare mutations more extreme non-equilibrium patterns than those with mod-
due to BGS is expected across most of the genome for species erate or strong BGS. Figure 3a shows that regions with high
with a range of recombination rates like D. melanogaster recombination (moderate BGS, blue lines) are much slower in
[79,100]. These patterns of polymorphism predicted by BGS recovering expected levels of neutral diversity than those
models and confirmed by simulations could be easily under- with low and very low recombination (green and red lines,
stood as evidence of population expansion and BGS is also respectively). Figure 3b shows these dynamics for neutral
likely to bias inferences about most other demographic mutations in terms of frequency spectra. For long periods of
events [100,101]. At the same time, demography can influence time, genomic regions with moderate levels of BGS (e.g. blue

estimates of parameters associated with selection at linked lines) will show a more negative Tajima’s D than those with


(a) N generations stronger BGS (e.g. green lines). Moreover, neutral mutations in 6 |