[40]. Raimondi et al. demonstrated the effect of MM-EVs on mechanism by which EVs are captured and why EVs can
both human primary osteoclasts and murine pre-osteoclastic select recipient cells remain to be elucidated in MM. Although
RAW264.7 cells [42]. These results indicate that MM-EVs are the BME in MM is controlled by either a cytokine /chemokine
key regulators that educate BME-targeting endothelial cells, network or cell adhesion molecules [32], interactions between
BM-MSCs, MDSCs and osteoclasts. conventional and EV-mediated pathways are much more
In addition to MM-EVs, EVs derived from BM-MSCs complex than ever imagined.

facilitate MM cell growth by maintaining a favourable BME
for MM. Roccaro et al. reported the difference in EV-miRNA
contents between MM-BM-MSCs and normal BM-MSCs [43].

EVs derived from MM-BM-MSCs have less tumour suppres- 5. Perspectives
sor miR-15a and higher levels of oncogenic proteins, Despite the fact that most studies have focused on tumour
cytokines and adhesion molecules, whereas normal-BM- cell- and BM-MSC-derived EVs, how EVs derived from
MSCs have the potential to inhibit MM cell growth. Their other types of cells act in the BME is largely unknown.
findings indicate a CAF-like ability of MM-BM-MSCs and Because a category of EVs includes components other than
the possible use of normal BM-MSCs for MM cell therapy. exosomes, including oncosomes, the type of EV and the
We also found that BM-MSCs from healthy young donors cells from which EVs originate should be clarified to eluci-
inhibit MM angiogenesis through EV-miRNA [44]. From date the precise mechanism of EV-mediated cell-cell
the aspect of CAFs, BM-MSC-derived EVs induce prolifer- communication. We identified EV-miRNA as an angiogenic
ation, survival and drug resistance of MM cells [45], and factor in our experimental model. However, analysis of
they are able to activate MDSCs [46]. As a result, BM-MSC- plasma EV-miR-135b did not simply reflect MM disease
derived EVs contribute to not only the BME supporting severity. It is likely that EV-miRNA in the proximal area (i.e.
MM cell growth but also immunosuppression related to bone marrow) is not linked to EV-miRNA in remote areas
disease progression. such as circulating blood. The manner of cell-cell communi-