
their intracellular transcriptome, proteome and lipidome to including plasma, urine, breast milk, semen, cerebrospinal
the extracellular space they reach, communicating their fluid and saliva [8].

‘status’ to other cells. EVs can be subdivided into three The exact EV uptake mechanisms for recipient cells are
main categories depending on their subcellular origin: exo- not completely understood but different groups have pro-
somes, microvesicles and apoptotic bodies [9,10]. Exosomes vided evidence for EV cargo uptake by either: (i) direct EV
are the smallest of EVs, with a size ranging from 30-150 nm. fusion at the plasma membrane, releasing the EV cytosol con-
They are generated inside multivesicular bodies (MVBs) tent into the cytoplasmic compartment of the target cells; or
and are released upon the fusion of the MVB with the (ii) by uptake through endocytosis followed by back-fusion
plasma membrane [11]. Microvesicles have been previously of the EV with the endosomal membrane releasing their con-
referred to as ectosomes or oncosomes and range from 100 tents to the cytoplasm of the recipient cell (figure 1) [8]. In
to 1000 nm. They are formed, matured and released by shed- fact, in 2007, Valadi et al. demonstrated that mRNA and
ding from the plasma membrane of the cell (figure 1; left microRNA (miR) could be transferred via EVs from mouse
panel). Both microvesicles and exosomes comprise the to human mast cells. They also showed that the RNA content
accumulation of intracytosolic components although the was functional as they found mouse proteins in the human
protein and lipid composition between both EV subtypes dif- recipient cells [14]. The delivery of EVs derived from dendri-
fers [8,12]. Apoptotic bodies are the largest of all EVs (up to tic cells (DC) loaded with an siRNA targeting GAPDH
5000 nm) and are released as membrane blebs of cells under- showed a reduction in the expression levels of GAPDH in
going apoptosis. Throughout this review we will focus neurons, microglia, oligodendrocytes demonstrated that the
exclusively on the role of exosomes and microvesicles in the siRNA was effectively transferred and functional [15]. Fur-
tumour microenvironment using the generic name of EVs, thermore, performing membrane fusion assays using EVs
without specifying which type of EVs the original research loaded with luciferin substrate to treat luciferase-expressing
studies are referring to. cells resulted in production of bioluminescence in the recipi-
