overshadowed by the overnight theft of large quantities of Winfried Remy and his family had accumulated a large quan-
chert just prior to the excursion. The perpetrators were tity of material that was studied at Minster and produced the
never caught. Further evidence for his generosity came most sensational discoveries since those in the original papers
from his gifts of chert to interested parties, most particularly by Kidston and Lang. These included tracheophyte gameto-
to Professor Winfried Remy at Munster (see below), and phytes with well-preserved gametangia and even
readily allowing access to the fields, subject to agreements preservation of the liberation of antherozoids [44,45]. This
with local farmers and the safety of both people and research is now led by Professor Hans Kerp [20]. Their
livestock! approach has been simple, time consuming, but very effec-
In Wales, of the three research students (Akhlaq Ahmed tive: literally thousands of thin translucent sections of rock
Bhutta, Wagih EI-S. El-Saadawy and David Edwards) who were produced by systematic sectioning of the chert by
worked on the chert, Edwards’ work is of particular signifi- team member Hagen Hass. These sections could then be

cance as it drew attention to the fact that the xylem cells of imaged using transmitted light microscopy. Thick sections


proved to be far more informative than cellulose acetate Dr Lyon died in 1999 and subsequent research at Aberd- | 4 |

peels. This work resulted in additional data on the plants, een was partly funded by The Lyon Bequest to Aberdeen
new animals [37,38] and algae, and it opened up the field University. He also left most of his extensive collection of a
of palaeomycology. Study of the fungi was revived under peels and slides to the university. Thanks to such beneficence, s
the leadership of the late Professor Thomas Norwood five PhD students have graduated, while Trewin and a
Taylor (Kansas University), initially in collaboration with co-workers have visited New Zealand and Yellowstone = 2-
Remy, and continues today in Munich [46] and London National Park, USA, to examine processes and deposits in S
[23,31]. Discoveries have included recognition of mycorrhiza, active equivalents of hot springs and to study taphonomic =
initially as arbuscules in Aglaophyton [47], an ascomycote aspects of the biota [73,74]. The latter has been complemen- =