
langium sheari, the chelicerae are preserved [19]. Though the is naturally heavily biased by a tetrapod or better mammalian


Figure 3. Different examples of structures for chewing and similar modes of food processing in Rhynie chert arthropods. Pinkish images are all stereo images: use
ted—blue glasses to view; non-stereo corresponding images colour-marked. (a,b) Head region of the springtail R. praecursor (NHM |n27765). (b) Mandibles in red.
(©) Three-dimensional reconstruction of mandibles of Rhyniognatha hirsti. (d,e) Cross-section through the anterior body region of a trigonotarbid (NHM In27357).
(e) Proximal appendage parts with opposing enditic structures marked in red. (f—i) Mandibles of the eucrustacean Lepidocaris rhyniensis. (f,g) Approximately ventral
view (M_3704). (g) Mandibles marked in red. (h,/) Relatively median view of mandibles (M_3717_04). (i) Row of teeth marked in red. M, palaeobotany collection
of the University of Miinster.

view. Yet, food processing in arthropods is quite different range of motion, the mandibles do not fully oppose each
from that of mammals. This is coupled to the fact that other. By contrast, they are shifted to about 45° off-axis. Simi-
joints in tetrapods are very different from those in arthro- lar arrangements have been described in various mandibulate
pods. In mammals, many different types of joints exist that arthropods (e.g. in isopods; [22]). This arrangement allows
can perform various ranges of motion. In particular, the the mandible a certain forward movement, which could
jaw joint of mammals is a very versatile, mixed kind of have been used for a type of piercing motion, for example,
joint that allows a variety of motions. to feed on fungal hyphae [23-25].

Arthropod joints are in many aspects more restricted. In Rhyniognatha hirsti has been interpreted as a possible early
principle, all joints are functional hinge joints, usually with pterygote insect [26], but myriapod affinities have also been
two joint pivots that indicate the possible axis of motion for suggested [27,28]. The single specimen has recently been rein-
the joints. Therefore, the kind of chewing that we are familiar vestigated with modern imaging methods revealing
with is not possible with arthropod jaws. Still, it is possible to previously unseen mouthparts concealed by other structures
create grinding types of motion, as arthropods usually chew 28]. Also, details of the mouthpart morphology became