marrow-derived cells (BMDC) [49,58]. In particular, EVs inhibit EV biogenesis if it is so detrimental in cancer? Several ‘=
from pancreatic cancer cells activate resident macrophages studies have tried this approach with more or less success.
in the liver (Kupffer cells), which release TGFB. TGFB in Interference with some Ras-related RAB proteins, which are =
turn activates hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) that induce ECM essential for EV biogenesis, has been shown to reduce =
remodelling prompting the recruitment of BMDC [58]. migration, growth and metastasis [1]. However, although a S
It seems that the receptor tyrosine kinase receptor Met reduction in the metastatic potential induced by injecting -
plays a key role in metastatic EV-mediated preconditioning. EVs from RAB-depleted cells was observed, metastasis was 2
Met can be found in tumour EVs and can be transferred not completely abolished, suggesting either additional mech- S
to recipient cells, which in turn promote tumorigenesis anisms unrelated to EV biogenesis are implicated or that w
[49,59,60]. However, cancer cells also release EVs containing affecting EV biogenesis influences other cellular signalling =“
other oncogenic proteins. The oncogene KIT was found in pathways. This further highlights the existing complexity 5
EVs derived from gastrointestinal tumours [61], while a trun- of the different EV subtypes and their functionality, Ss
cated oncogenic form of the epidermal growth factor receptor which is an area of enormous interest in the field. In fact, 53
(EGFRvIII) can be uptaken by cells negative for the receptor further basic and translational research on this topic is
via EV transfer [62]. Altogether, these studies suggest that likely to pay dividends in terms of regaining control of
the presence of the oncogene Met in EVs is not the only our understanding of the cancer microenvironment and
mechanism involved in promoting metastasis. metastatic dissemination.

Data accessibility. This article has no additional data.
4, Futu re directions Competing interests. I declare I have no competing interests.
Funding. A.O.’s laboratory is supported by the BBSRC (BB/P000223/
1).
Acknowledgements. We are grateful to the laboratory members for critical

Tumour-derived EVs prepare the premetastatic niche for