

Clearly, the Rhynie chert plants inhabited this highly when ponds intermittently charged with hot silicic waters | 3 |

unstable environment and it appears that there was never flooded the land surface. He estimated that the entire 3.7m

enough time for a climax community to develop. Indeed sequence accumulated in 1000 + 200 years with the basal a
coeval plants present in the drainage basin, as evidenced peat horizon accumulating in 150 + 50 years. s
by the diverse dispersed spore assemblages, are not present An important advance was Richardson’s realization that a
in the cherts. Thus the Rhynie chert plants are likely to the Rhynie cherts were Early rather than Mid Devonian in = 2
have been capable of rapidly colonized new sediment/ age [10]. This older age meant that the Rhynie chert plants S
sinter surfaces (via spore dispersal) and quickly establishing were not so simple compared with coeval plants as had pre- =
clonal colonies. These were then wiped out, or at least viously been considered. In fact they were much more in =
partially destroyed, by the next flood or inundation by hot- keeping with coeval floras from Gaspé, the Anglo-Welsh ‘2
springs waters. In all likelihood, the plants were resilient to Basin, the Ardenne-Rhenish region, etc. s
the unstable and often harsh environment and may have In 1988, the first boreholes were drilled into the Rhynie = -s
been tolerant of partial submersion, heat and unusual water sequence and with this came a revolution in understanding =
chemistry (with respect to pH, salinity, heavy metals, etc.). of the geology of the Rhynie Outlier and the nature of the S
But what is interesting is whether these plants were adapted cherts [12—16,25]. The new material enabled clarification of -
and limited to existing in a hot-springs environment, whether the geological structure and stratigraphical sequence devel- 2
they inhabited the mesic environments and were impinged oped in the Rhynie outlier. Thus the Rhynie cherts could be S
on by the hot-springs system as it naturally migrated, or considered within a secure geological context for the first w
whether they were a part of the regional biota (be that the time. It soon became evident that at least 50 chert horizons =”
flora of the basin or also beyond in the mountains). Sadly, were present interspersed within ca 35m of sediments of | &
we have no plants from the regional biota preserved (although the Rhynie cherts Unit. A further chert-bearing horizon Ss