These latter two taxa are less well known and, therefore, this gely been replaced by silica. Attempts to study Rhynie chert ©
contribution will primarily focus on the species originally plants by making cellulose acetate peels after etching the Ss
described by Kidston & Lang [1-3]. Although vegetative repro- chert with hydrofluoric acid were not really successful. Nn &
duction by means of rhizomes was recognized nearly a century peels only the most durable parts consisting of coalified resi-
ago [4], another way of vegetative reproduction was described dues, such as the thick-walled cells of the water-conducting
recently [18]. Rhynie chert plants are often regarded as simple strand, the cuticle, the epidermis and the sporangia are still
or primitive, but studies carried out in the last couple of decades visible. The best way to make thin sections is to start with a
show that they were far more complex than initially thought. relatively thick section, usually over 200 ym thick, depending
Rhynie chert plants are often preserved in situ. Apart on the transparency of the chert. A slice of chert is mounted on
from the plants described here, a rapidly growing number a glass slide with thermoplastic synthetic resin and ground
of microorganisms notably fungi, and various aquatic and with Silicon carbide powder. The chert wafer can be released
terrestrial animals have been described from the Rhynie from the glass slide after heating, turned around and
and nearby Windyfield cherts. The fact that Rhynie chert remounted in order to be ground down from the other side.
plants are prominently figured in nearly all textbooks on If necessary this process can be repeated a few times until the
palaeobotany, systematic botany and Earth history demon- amount of chert above and below the subject is minimized
strates the great importance of this Konservat-Lagerstatte. and the desired thickness is reached [20].
A century after its discovery the Rhynie chert still continues Even in thin sections cellular details may sometimes be
to provide new information on early land plants. Therefore, difficult to observe. In cases when cell walls were very thin
this brief review represents the current state of knowledge, and hardly visible in transmitted light, the use of incident
anticipating that more exciting discoveries will follow. light and placing a piece of milk glass under the slide may

reveal the finest details [21]. For our studies, attempts to
apply other methods had only limited success. The use of
fluorescence and confocal microscopy mostly failed because
