either true or false (meaningless statements were eliminated), IPS, bilateral IT regions and bilateral superior and middle fron-
and the mathematicians were asked to decide, as fast as tal regions (BA 9 and 46) (figure 1). In the first control
possible (within 2.5 s) whether they were true or false. Math- experiment, these regions again activated systematically for
ematical statements consisted in well-known mathematical all types of math and deactivated for non-math judgements.
facts such as classical algebraic identities that are known by In the second control experiment, they responded more to
rote (e.g. a —b?=(a— bya +b)), trigonometric formulae, math than non-math statements, irrespective of the presence
properties of complex numbers and simple statements in non- of quantifiers and negation. Interestingly, while frontal acti-
metric Euclidean geometry. These were compared to declarative vation became weaker as the statements became easier,
non-mathematical facts about arts. Low-level auditory controls suggesting that frontal cortex was primarily called upon
consisting of series of beeps were also presented. during intense and prolonged mathematical reflection, intra-
Ina second control experiment, with the same subjects, we parietal and IT activations to mathematics remained strong
asked whether, within the statements of everyday language, even when subjects judged very simple and overlearned
the mere presence of some minimal logical operators could facts, suggesting that these regions are involved in the core
suffice to activate the math-related network. Specifically, we knowledge of math.
tested the influence of quantifiers and negation in mathemat- The reverse contrast of non-math versus math reflection
ical and non-mathematical processing. Therefore, the true or yielded activation in the bilateral anterior and posterior
false statements were either declarative sentences (‘The sine temporal lobe and bilateral inferior frontal areas in both exper-
function is periodical’; ‘London buses are red.), or included iments, largely replicating our previous findings [8] and
the quantifier ‘some’ (‘Some matrices are diagonalizable’; previous meta-analyses of the brain areas for general semantic
‘Some ocean currents are warm’), or a negation (‘Hyperboloids knowledge [15] (figure 1). Interestingly, as non-mathematical

are not connected’; ‘Orange blossoms are not perfumed’), problems became easier, extensive anterior temporal


activations remained, but activations at the temporo-parietal