given that non-numerical features of numerosity displays monkey was confronted with novel numerosities 6, 7 and 8 in

inevitably vary with an increase in the number of items. transfer trials in which it could not have learned the correct


response. The monkey continued to discriminate these novel between 3 and 4, despite the numerical distance being 1 in | 5 |

numerosities with comparable accuracy to the previously both cases. This increase in the numerical distance needed
learned small set sizes. To further demonstrate an abstract for discrimination with increasing numerical values is a
knowledge of the quantity concept, both monkeys in this called the ‘numerical size effect’. The size effect causes the s
study [81] only trained to small numerosities were abruptly monkeys’ and crows’ bell-shaped performance curves a
confronted (i.e. from one day to the other) with numerosities to become broader with increasing values of the target 2
ranging up to 30. Both monkeys showed spontaneous numerosities (figure 4). In fact, a closer analysis shows that S
generalization to novel large numerosities, showing the same the distance between match and nonmatch numerosities =
discrimination characteristics as for the well-trained small grows in proportion to the numerical values for them to =
numerosities. Both the transfer and the generalization test maintain just discriminable. For instance, if 6 can just be dis- “2
argue in favour of a conceptual quantitative understanding. criminated from 4, then 12 can just be discriminated from ©
For crows, Smirnova et al. [45] reported successful transfer. 8. Exactly the same proportional size relationship has been — -5
After managing numerosities 1-4, hooded crows successfully found for the performance of monkeys and crows [47,7881]. =
transferred their discrimination to stimulus sets with novel =
values of 5-8. These studies show that monkeys and crows -
can apply the meaning of absolute numerosity to novel set sizes. (c) The approximate number system obeys Weber's Law =u
Both the numerical distance and size effect are classical a
signatures of the approximate number system (ANS) which — w
(b) Signatures of numerosity discrimination represents the number of items in a set as a noisy mental a