It has been suggested that children induce the successor grasp of the principles that must be honoured by the practice
principle and the linear order of the numbers after learning [7]. On this view, children first learn the referential meanings
one by one the referents of the first three to five number of the first several count words in just the same way that they
words and observing that those referents—those first few learn the meanings of non-count words like ‘cow’ and ‘tree’.
numerosities—are ordered [7]. The postulated induction Eventually, when they have mastered the referential mean-
cannot be mathematical induction, because the successor prin- ings of a sufficient number of the words that refer to small
ciple is the basis for mathematical induction. Moreover, it has numerosities, they—somehow—induce the ordering of the
been carefully and extensively explained by other authors that numbers, the successor principle, and all the other principles
the postulated empirical or bootstrapping induction begs the for counting and numerical reasoning. The problem with this
question how children arrive at this conclusion. It begs the ques- view has always been with the ‘somehow’—that is, propon-
tion by implicitly assuming that a linear ordering is the only ders’ conclusions from those purely referential data in the
possible or, at least, the only plausible conclusion from these absence of any principles that constrain the induction [54,55].
few empirical facts [54,55]. Adding one to a two's complement There is also abundant evidence that counting is built into
fixed point number may unendingly increase the number or it many idiosyncratic self-developed algorithms that young
may generate a circular sequence of signed numbers [18]. children have for solving basic arithmetic problems
Which it does depends on whether or not the leftmost bit in [46,60,61]. Being able to count both up and down and silently
the result (i.e. the most significant than) is discarded when it and quickly is central to the success of these algorithms,
lies to the left of the leftmost bit in the addends. In angular cal- which is why successful arithmetic reasoning depends on
culations, it is discarded, with the result that adding generates a the counting skills that come only with practice.

circular system of numbers. When it is not discarded, adding
generates an ever-increasing linear system of numbers. How
many additions are required before one returns to 01 (the

(c) When the pre-existing structure becomes an