
‘seed and soil’ hypothesis, initially concerned with the mech- facilitates their progression and metastasis [6,77—79]. The
anisms surrounding the ability of certain tumour cells (the tumour-supportive activity of TAM stems from signals arising
‘seed’) to metastasize to certain tissues (the ‘soil’) [76], provides from the tumour that effectively polarize the functional status
a stimulating conceptual foundation for the evolution of of the macrophages towards a reparatory phenotype, often
knowledge of tumour microenvironments, their association referred to as ‘M2-like’, which starkly contrasts with the M1
with tissue repair and regeneration and their significance in or Ml-like phenotype of macrophages that mediate anti-
post-therapeutic relapse. We recently proposed the concept of tumour effector functions. The tumour-supportive properties
the ‘onco-regenerative niche’ (ORN) [6], suggesting that cell of TAM, which have established roles in promoting cell
death in tumours provides a central driving force in shaping growth, angiogenesis and matrix remodelling, while at the
the tumour microenvironment by orchestrating a series of same time suppressing anti-tumour immune responses, are
interconnected cellular responses and extracellular modifi- reminiscent of the properties of macrophages that are driven
cations that promote tumour growth, progression and by their interaction with apoptotic cells [6,13]. In fact, apoptotic
relapse. The ORN, its constituent key cells, molecules and cells are drivers of M2-like activation of macrophages [80] and
activities, is a ‘skeletal’ concept at present, serving as a frame- impose dominant effects on M1 macrophages, potently sup-
work for improving our understanding of the broad pressing their anti-tumour activity [81]. The ‘M1-suppressive’
implications of cell death in tumours, be it constitutive as property of apoptosis has serious implications for tumour
part of cancer pathogenesis, or induced as a consequence of repopulation post therapy and suggests that the very apoptosis
therapy. The association of apoptosis and apoptotic cell clear- of tumour cells that is triggered by anti-tumour, M1-like macro-
ance with wound healing, tissue regeneration and aggressive phages could lead to repolarization of the latter to become
malignant disease provides the initial basis for developing M2-like, tumour supportive cells. This is a particularly important
the ORN concept. Here, TAM (that are activated by apoptotic consideration if TAM repolarization from pro- to anti-tumour is
cells) and extracellular vesicles (EV, that are produced by apop- to be useful as an effective anti-tumour immune therapy.

totic cells), are proposed as two important ORN components Recent work from our laboratory has shown that the