ations. Importantly, the specificity of inhibition sites speaks demonstrated. Surely one interesting function, which may
against unspecific difficulty effects. The retrieval /approxi- intervene in calculation, concerns processing of zero in com-
mation dichotomy was specified and shown also for plex numbers: this function cannot be described as ‘spatial’,
multiplication. The involvement of VIPS was shown to however, without a theory that clearly specifies why that
depend on problem size. would be the case.

The clearest indications for a specific, causal, role of the
right hemisphere in calculation come from reversible inhi-

3. Discussion bition. The studies conducted with this technique were on
Recent literature starts providing answers to the questions simple calculation, thus minimizing the possibility of an
posed in the introduction. When put together, recent studies intervention of spatial functions. Thus TMS reveals that acti-
reveal, in fact, that not only do both hemispheres contribute vation in simple calculation happens at times that are
to calculation and may take over functions of the contralateral different and specific for each hemisphere and in different
hemisphere in some clinical situations [76], but also that sites. In particular, the right VIPS seems to have a specific
each hemisphere seems to play its specific role in normal role, although not a necessary one (otherwise positive sites
functioning. for VIPS would have been found with DCE). Crucially dis-
The right hemisphere, in particular, does not just offer ruption to VIPS predicted problem size effects. The right
generic processing support when calculation becomes hard. VIPS may thus be called upon in efficiently performing
The finding of operation-specific positive sites in the right harder problems. Further studies are needed to elucidate
parietal lobe speaks against such a hypothesis. If inhibiting such VIPS-supported mechanisms that may indeed involve
a site provokes a generic shortage of processing capacity, spatial exploration of internal representations, however.
the effect would hold irrespective of the operation and Finally, results from analyses of errors in DCE seem to be
would not be as operation-consistent as found with DCE in the best indication so far of a bilateral orchestration, with a
