2. Thi rd-way cultural selection by Donald T. Campbell, and his view of cultural evolution was
The most fully developed populational account of cultural unambiguously, and indeed evangelically, selectionist [15,16].
evolution is known as dual-inheritance theory [5-8], or the Also, to this day, when commenting on their project as a whole,
‘California school’ [9,10]. This impressive body of work is and glossing the results of particularly models, the members of
‘evolutionary’ in at least three respects. First, it assumes that the California school write as if they are aiming for selective
social learning—or, at least, the kinds of social learning that explanations. They emphasize the ‘Darwinian’ character of cul-
drive large-scale changes in human populations—is built on tural evolution, refer to ‘cultural adaptations’, use the term
a set of genetic adaptations; natural selection acting on genetic ‘selection’ repeatedly and make explicit statements such as

variants has given humans psychological mechanisms—called ‘The logic of natural selection applies to culturally transmitted


variation every bit as much as it applies to genetic variation’ grounds that, in fact, cultural inheritance typically involves | 3 |

([7, p 76]). ‘reconstruction’ rather than ‘replication’ [20-22].

Only if the dual-inheritance project offers selective What is the difference between replication and reconstruc- a
explanation does it have the potential to show that there is tion, and why does it matter? The second of these questions s
‘third way’ in which human thought and behaviour can has been given a much more satisfactory answer than the first. a
become adapted, can achieve a better fit with their environ- Itis widely assumed—by dual-inheritance theorists, culturalepi- 2.
ments. We know from sociobiology, evolutionary psychology demiologists and others—that the distinction matters because 5
and human behavioural ecology that human thought and be- replicative processes have higher-fidelity products than recon- =
haviour can become adapted to their environments via structive processes, and high-fidelity products, although not =
natural selection operating on genetic variants (the first way; strictly necessary for selection [4,23,24], make selection more “2
[17]). In humans, as in other animals, genetic evolution has likely to happen, and a more powerful generator of adaptations