contribution of the right hemisphere. However, the anatom- verification task. The respective locations of retrieval (exclu-
ical correlation of functions soon made significant progress sively left-sided) and approximation (sustained bilaterally)
from the original idea that most maths skills are almost exclu- confirmed earlier suggestions of lesion studies [24,25]. Impor-
sively located in the left parietal lobe, with the exception of tantly, in [55] and in [63], ERPs for exact and approximate
some spatial components located in the right hemisphere. addition differed within the first 400 ms of a trial, being
The ‘triple code’ model [23], based on clinical and neuroima- more negative for exact calculation rather than approximation
ging observations, gained popularity by drawing a more in an earlier phase, and vice versa later on in the epoch. Inter-
complex picture. The model, while assuming that Arabic estingly, an effect of number size was found in exact
and magnitude representations of numbers are available to calculation: its increment led to increased activation of the
both hemispheres in the vicinity of the parieto-occipito-tem- same parietal regions as during approximation.
poral junction (but extending to the occipito-ventral on the A quantitative meta-analysis of brain areas needed for
left), assigns the verbal representation underlying the retrie- numbers and calculation was subsequently performed by
val of arithmetical facts exclusively to the left hemisphere. Arsalidou & Taylor [9] on fMRI-based available evidence.
Only the left hemisphere would possess the representation The authors calculated laterality indexes of activated voxels
of the sequence of words corresponding to verbal numerals for addition, subtraction and multiplication. Obtained indexes
and lexical mechanisms for identifying and producing revealed hemispheric asymmetries in the parietal cortex.
spoken numerals. These lexical mechanisms, which would While addition was left-lateralized and subtraction was
not be specific for numbers, would be implemented in the bilateral or left-lateralized, the right hemisphere was found
classic language (Broca’s and Wernicke’s) areas, including dominant for multiplication, thus highlighting an important
the inferior frontal and the superior and middle temporal difference from the triple code model. The role of the right
gyri, as well as basal ganglia and thalamic nuclei. hemisphere was further emphasized by Rosenberg-Lee et al.

Subsequent studies identified, within the parietal lobe, [64]. These authors examined functional overlap and

three major circuits for number processing [57]. Each of dissociations within the parietal lobe across addition,