processes of social learning (in particular unbiased trans- uated for statistical consistency. The outcome of this approach
mission (or neutral evolution) (e.g. [25-28])); the shape of is not only the identification of the most likely underlying
rank-abundance distributions (e.g. [29-31]); and the com- learning process given the empirical data but a description
parison between observed turnover rates and the ones of the breadth of processes that could have produced these
expected under unbiased transmission (e.g. [32,33]) or phylo- data equally well, which in turn can be interpreted as an infor-
genetic analyses (e.g. [34]). This research has clearly shown mal measure of the level of equifinality. Additionally, the
that robustly inferring the underlying processes of social inference framework may provide insight into the temporal
learning from population-level frequency data becomes a and/or spatial resolution of the population-level frequency
challenging task, especially in the light of equifinality, ie. data that are needed to reliably distinguish between different
in situations where various learning processes can result in processes of social learning (see [41] for a related discussion).
very similar population-level characteristics (e.g. [35,36]). In §1a, we briefly review some of the relevant key develop-
However, the inverse problem described above is of course ments in population genetics, before exploring the
not unique to cultural evolution. In fact, other scientific fields applicability of the generative inference approach to cultural
have successfully overcome similar challenges, in particular frequency data in §2.

population genetics, which aims to understand the evolu-
tionary mechanisms that produced the allele frequency

distributions observed both now and in the past. Here, recent (a) Population genetics and generative inference

developments have provided elegant means for building Classical population genetics—with its prospective approach
complex evolutionary models, and allowing the application [42]—provided many important theoretical insights into
of efficient generative inference frameworks, which made pos- how the processes of mutation, drift, selection, migration
sible the statistical testing of increasingly realistic demographic and demographic change may shape the genetic variation
hypotheses. In general, the generative approach proceeds by expected in a population at equilibrium (e.g. [43-45]). But