tial social models of different statuses. Intergenerational data social transmission and advocate for increased integration
could also help with theorizing about changing fitness land- of data collection efforts and models from different streams
scapes for different strategies as culture shifts. This could take of thought in the evolutionary social sciences. As we have — -5
the form of better long-term fitness indicators and diverse demonstrated in this paper, HBE and CET offer distinct but = =
measures of child quality (e.g. health, educational and econ- compatible perspectives on the evolution of reproductive =
omic outcomes) that can hint at parents’ motivations for behaviours. That ALB appears to change rapidly and is -
lower fertility or earlier reproduction. coupled to kinship norms in these communities suggests 2
that stopping behaviours may adapt to cultural shifts as S
well as socio-ecological incentives. w
8. Conclusion #
Ethics. Research protocols were approved by the University of 8
The timing of reproductive events in human life history can Washington Institutional Review Board (UW IRB 07-4858-C 01) 9 =
have important consequences for individual fitness, a fact and as part of obtaining research permissions locally in China (via &
that may be increasingly salient as variation in fertility con- the Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences). Informed consent was ~

tinues to decline worldwide. Given that ALB is often a obtained from all participants.
Data accessibility. Data and code for analysis from this paper may be

stronger predictor of reproductive success than more com- : .
. accessed via the corresponding author’s ResearchGate page: http://
monly used proxies such as onset of menarche or AFB bit ly /2v8POst

[2,70], we anticipate increased interest in this topic. ALB, Author contributions. S.M., C.M. and M.C.T. conceived and designed the

like lifetime fertility, has been showing declines in many study. S.M. collected data. M.C.T. performed analysis. S.M., C.M.,