Figure 1. Self-organization generates patterns during the development of multi-cellular systems. (a) Dynamical Turing patterns form on lizard skins [21]. (b) Tens of
thousands of cells of the slime mould D. discoideum come together to generate a fruiting body [22]. (c) B. subtilis biofilms exhibit a complex pattern of
three-dimensional surface wrinkles [23]. (d) Gene segregation in colonies of the bacterium F. coli results in a pattern of rugged sectors [24].

For the special case of the evolution of cooperation, a link 2. From cellular stochasticity to macroscopic

to pattern formation is well documented [26]. Spatio-temporal

structures can promote or disrupt the cohesiveness of groups genetic drift
of cooperators, and thereby influence the invasion probability Population geneticists have long valued the role of chance
of defectors. But recent microbial studies, which we survey in evolution: novel mutations can go extinct by chance if
below, suggest that even the most basic Darwinian principles their bearers are unlucky and fail to reproduce. Stochastic
are susceptible to pattern formation: patterns generated by extinction is, in fact, the typical fate of a mutation even if it
self-organization determine the proliferation and movement confers a slight fitness advantage [28]. Random number fluc-
of individual cells in space and time. This in turn generates tuations are therefore considered one of evolution’s major
associations among lineages and environments, which can driving forces and are conventionally called ‘random genetic
strongly influence the influx of new mutations, the compe- drift’. Yet, the system specific determinants of the strength of
tition between genotypes and the strength of genetic drift. genetic drift are often elusive.
These observations underscore the fact that the key forces of Classically, random genetic drift is modelled by assuming
evolution act at the population level: natural selection and that offspring numbers exhibit some amount of random varia-
genetic drift characterize the collective behaviour and relation- bility. This variability is usually assumed to be not correlated
ships of many individuals [27]. They cannot easily be intuited among generations—otherwise, it would look heritable and
from single-cell properties. act like natural selection. On this standard view of genetic
We also discuss microbial systems in which one can drift, allele frequencies should fluctuate only weakly in large
watch evolutionary dynamics massively changing pattern populations and be primarily controlled by deterministic