attachment or detachment. In the case of the Min system in mass-conserving reaction—diffusion systems have received ~~
E. coli only active MinD-ATP can bind and be recruited to the considerable attention in the theoretical literature © =
membrane. As theoretical analysis [30] has shown, this property [12,96,97,102,109-113]. These studies try to answer how = 3!
is essential for the regulation of intracellular transport and the mass conservation affects reaction—diffusion dynamics. But -
establishment of ‘canalized transfer’: As MinD detaches from what is the relevance for biological systems? aA
the membrane in the inactive MinD-ADP form, it cannot In [97] a mass-conserving model for cell polarity is 8
immediately rebind. Hence, if the timescale of cytosolic reacti- proposed—where mass conservation leads to the halting ofa
vation (nucleotide exchange) is sufficiently long, a MinD propagating wavefront. This ‘pinned’ wave represents the — &
protein detaching froma polar zone with high MinD membrane polarized pattern. It has been argued that the corresponding = &
density can leave the polar zone, by diffusion, before being reac- pattern-forming mechanism is not related to a Turing instabil- = S
tivated. In this way, rebinding of detached MinD to polar zones ity but instead based on excitability and bistability [97,112]. <
can be suppressed even if the affinity of cytosolic MinD-ATP for A similar line of reasoning is presented in [102]. However, it
membrane-bound MinDis very high. In fact, a very high affinity has been pointed out recently [114,115] that a Turing instability
for membrane-bound MinD can serve to promote rebinding of in the ‘wave-pinning’ model is recovered upon parameter
MinD-ATP in new (weak) polar zones. In other words: to pro- change. Other studies report that mass-conserving reaction—
mote directed transport of MinD from a high- (MinD and diffusion systems are prone to coarsening [96,109]. However,
MinE membrane) density region to a low-density region. In it remains elusive whether a general relation between mass
this way, the high-density region becomes a detachment zone conservation and coarsening exists.
and the low-density region an attachment zone. Increasing the Recently, it has been shown that the general mechanism
affinity of cytosolic MinD-ATP to membrane-bound MinD of pattern formation in mass-conserving reaction—diffusion
(recruitment rate) simply increases the attachment in the low- systems is based on the lateral redistribution of the conserved
density region—but not in the high-density region from quantities [12]. The total amount of conserved quantities
which MinD detached and cannot rebind owing to delayed (protein copy number) determines the position and stabilities
nucleotide exchange. Hence, the coupling (mass flux) between of chemical equilibria. Spatio-temporal redistribution of
detachment and attachment zones increases with the MinD conserved quantities shifts local chemical equilibria and is