
knowledge level conceptual feature® performance signature example references
situated intentions mental effects of stimulus range or recent experience [59,102]
embodied experience spatial postural biases in perception and production [78,79]
grounded constraints physical vertical association of magnitude [90,91]

*Frege ([1], §27) denied number concepts these features but his view is difficult to reconcile with the empirical evidence on actual number use discussed in the text.

indicating a possible role of other factors in vertical SNAs, definitions [99]. Based on our above review of empirical evi-
such as the universal metaphor of ‘more is up’ [13,93], whereby dence from number concepts we propose, and suggest to use
larger quantities tend to generate taller piles. more widely in further discussion, a distinction between three
These findings pertaining to horizontal and vertical SNAs hierarchically related levels of knowledge representation on
during reading amply document that numbers are non- the basis of their sensitivity to physical facts, sensory-motor
abstract concepts. This view is further corroborated by experiences and intentionality manipulations [100,101]. This
evidence from other SNAs, as well as the size and distance view is summarized in table 1. The first and most fundamental
effects which we can only briefly discuss. Consider first the dis- level of knowledge ‘grounding’ is expressed in our bodies as a
tance effect, that is, that smaller numerical distances are harder result of their biological origin: millennia of evolution have
to resolve than larger numerical distances. Clearly, this would shaped our anatomy and nervous systems in ways that opti-
not be expected if the mind were merely a symbol comparator mize our survival. We are built to withstand the constant pull
because all number symbols are about equally different from of gravity in a world where objects cannot occupy the same
each other (but see [94]). Instead, the graded increase in discri- space at the same time [103]. This latter constraint on cognition
minability for semantically less similar number pairs seems to explains the association between more and up [90,91] that is
reflect a perception-like quality: numbers become more similar reflected in universal metaphorical descriptions [13,93].
because the underlying conceptual representations become Moving from the descriptive to the interactive level of ‘embodi-
more similar. This explanation assumes that the comparison ment’ proper, we must acknowledge the impact of idiosyncratic