the neural networks supporting semantic representations are criminate between affirmative abstract, negative abstract,
flexibly modulated by the linguistic sentential context [18]. affirmative concrete and negative concrete sentences resulting
We expanded on two different lines of research: a first line from the 2 x 2 concreteness by polarity interaction (CP1). Post
indicating that abstract and concrete concepts, and their hoc classifications showed that affirmative and negative sen-
respective fine-grained sub-categories, are distinctively tences were discriminable also when abstract and concrete
encoded in distributed brain networks including category- conditions were analysed separately. However, when consid-
invariant and category-specific nodes [3,4]; and a second ering a 6x2 factorial combination between polarity
line, so far limited to concrete action-related concepts, indicat- (affirmative versus negative) and fine-grained abstract (Ms,
ing that sentential negation modulates neural activity of Em, Ma) and concrete (Mo, Ha, Le) categories (CP2),
category-specific conceptual representation nodes [14-17]. MVPA failed to accurately discriminate the associated brain
Our sentence processing fMRI study sought generalization activation patterns. Lack of sentential negation modulation
evidence for the modulatory effects of sentential negation by on fine-grained semantic categories might be due to meth-
factorial combination of fine-grained abstract and concrete odological aspects. In fact, analyses related to CP2 required

conceptual categories and affirmative /negative polarity. separately modelling each of the 12 experimental conditions.


This was not the case for CP1, where data were averaged conceptual representations. The syntactic and cognitive

across multiple experimental conditions. It is possible that control interpretations need not be mutually exclusive: the

the number of trials for each experimental condition in our neural circuit activations underlying syntactic and cognitive a
study was not sufficient to ensure fully-fledged category by control functions may be spatially and temporally distinct, 5
polarity MVPA separation in CP2. However, this result but display the observed spatio-temporal overlap due to the
might also constitute true negative evidence, weakening the relatively low spatial and temporal resolution of the fMRI