laborators, with ‘extreme stupidity’. One pair of twins with The official reports neglect the possibility that, along with
prodigious abilities for calendrical calculation were estimated domain-general cognitive tools needed for learning anything,
to have IQs in the 60s [14]. Mitchell in a review of mathemat- there is a domain-specific tool in the starter kit for learning to
ical prodigies noted that two prodigious calculators, Fuller become numerate. The cultural environment provides (or
(1710?-1790) and Buxton (1702-1772), ‘were men of such lim- sometimes fails to provide) symbolic resources to make
ited intelligence that they could comprehend scarcely numeracy more efficient: counting words, numerals, body-
anything, either theoretical or practical, more complex than part representations and other external representations, such
counting’ (pp. 98-99). One autistic boy, unable to speak or as tally ticks and marks on bones and stones (see the paper
understand language, and with a very low measured IQ, by d’Errico et al. in this issue [25]) [26]. It will turn out that
was able to identify large primes and to extract factors of even for learning to understand these symbolic resources
other numbers faster than an adult with a maths degree [15]. both domain-specific and domain-general tools are needed.
It is a characteristic of low-attaining children to have trou- Icall this domain-specific tool the numerosity tool. In typical
ble recalling arithmetical facts, and the worse they are, the learners, the numerosity tool, I will argue, supports the normal

lower proportion of their correct addition answers are development of arithmetical competence. (I have called it the


‘number module’ elsewhere [26].) When this tool is inefficient, When adults with severe numerical disabilities of this | 3 |

normal development is seriously handicapped. I will review kind are formally tested on a variety of cognitive tasks

some of the studies we have carried out to test this idea. To including non-numerical quantitative tasks, many show a a
make this case, I organize the evidence along the lines pro- deficit on specifically numerical tasks. In one study [31], s
posed by Morton & Frith [27] in their ‘causal modelling’ severe numerical disability in the presence of normal or a
framework, to show domain-specific individual differences superior IQ (WAIS-R) was diagnosed on three criteria. >