3. Linguistic resources Neither perception of speech sounds nor activation of the
Words are a rich resource for making one concept distinct corresponding effectors serves to establish the reference of a
from another. ANGER is linked to a different word from FEAR. concept—these resources do not serve to establish reference
Being linked to different words is a factor that differentiates to fear as opposed to anger, for example. Sensorimotor
between concepts. Words are not, however, by themselves patterns are distinctive of the words but are arbitrary with
enough to solve the distinctive grounding characteristics respect to meanings. They are not a resource that will tell
problem. Words do not magically carry meanings with us why ANGER is about anger, and FEAR fear.
them. Rather, words are invested with meaning because of Words also carry distributional data: about other words
the concepts people use them to express (perhaps also because that tend to occur in the same context. Distributional data
of the concepts people use when understanding the words on its own is unstructured, making it hard, for example, to
they hear). Whether words are represented amodally or in a differentiate between anonyms, which tend to occur in the
sensorimotor format, they are simply symbols to which mean- same contexts (e.g. hot/cold). However, in the case of natural
ings can attach. The fact that ANGER and Fear are attached to number concepts discussed above, thinkers were not just
different words is not a distinctive characteristic on which using distributional information (e.g. ‘six’ and ‘seven’ are
reference to different emotions can be founded. Just having often heard together), but structured information: ‘six’ tends
the word ‘anger’ does not by itself give the thinker a way of to occur after ‘five’ and before ‘seven’. Wiemer-Hastings &
identifying instances of anger, drawing appropriate inferences Xu [9] similarly emphasized the prevalence of structure in
or acting appropriately when they do. The story about linguis- their production data on abstract concepts. HOPE is not
tic resources needs to be supplemented before it can help to simply a grab bag of HAPPEN, PossIBLE and want. A hope is
address the distinctive grounding characteristics problem. something you want to happen. Here too the structure of sen-
Words can help in two ways, one internal and the other tences can act as a leg-up to getting the right structure
external to the thinker. Starting in this section with the between concepts. This is like another case of borrowed struc-
internal, words are a means by which a thinker acquires or ture: where the structure of space is used to give thinkers a
exercises the capacities needed to have a concept. For structure for their concepts of time [19].
example, in Carey’s account of natural number concepts dis- So linguistic labels can be a means by which thinkers