killing counts as a case of manslaughter depends on how bit of explicit metacognition: an explicit judgement about a con-
the courts classify it. This does not mean the category has cept. A similar process operates implicitly, as when people use
no inductive potential. Very many features differ between a a tone of voice or scare quotes to distance themselves from a
manslaughter and an accidental killing, and, of course, the concept (e.g. by those reluctant to use the concept INNATE).
consequences for the perpetrator are very different. Social epistemology has begun to examine how
Often social processes produce categories with as much knowledge-forming practices are often collective [29]. Con-
inductive power as paradigmatic natural kinds. Consider the structing the concepts that encode our knowledge is no less
category of monks. When you can categorize someone under a collective endeavour. One of the key forms of sharing
the concept Monk, that tells you a lot about their way of life between agents, which makes two heads better than one
and socio-economic status. Within a particular culture, it for performing some tasks, is metacognitive: communication
might even allow you to guess something about age, accent about one’s own confidence or reliability [30]. Indeed, it is
and dress (consider monks in Tibet). But that is partly because plausible that the reason we have explicit access to the
how people dress and behave is influenced by their having reliability of our mental processes—the reason facts about
been classified under the concept, ie. as a result of being our cognitive processes are made conscious and available
ordained. Our classificatory processes have a causal role in for the verbal report—is to allow us to share reports of confi-
forming the cluster of properties that members of the category dence and other metacognitive parameters in the service of
tend to share [27]. These categories, therefore, depend partly working together [31].
on human minds, but it would be wrong to think of them as We can see the social processes of concept construction at

existing only in the mind. Monks tend to share various work in the history of science. Thomas Kuhn described


periods of scientific revolution where an accumulation of
problems and anomalies leads to one conceptual scheme
being overthrown and replaced by a new set of concepts