
goals (i.e. an abstract schematization) of motor actions inde- and tactile areas respond to vision and audition). Let us 6 |

pendently of the specific movements carried out to reach focus on vision. Vision is multimodal: it encompasses the acti-
that goals. In their experiment, a motor simulation of the vation of motor, somatosensory and emotion-related brain a
goal of an observed action (grasping) occurred in the mon- networks. All in all, while perceptual symbols theory is s
key’s brain independently of the particular movements based on a rather standard account of perception, the Embo- a
involved in the action that the monkey observed (‘grasping died Simulation approach grounds perception in the action 2.
with normal pliers’ or ‘grasping with inverted pliers’ where system, putting a lot of emphasis on multimodality, viewed 5
the latter implies an opposite pattern of movements with as an intrinsic property of the vast majority of brain areas.
respect to the former). As for the commonalities between Embodied Simulation 2
When describing simulation routines as iconic signs, we and perceptual symbols theory, what they have incommon ‘=
acknowledge that the mechanism of simulation has been is certainly the fact that they are both clearly antithetical ©
put in relation to the notion of perceptual symbols elaborated with respect to semantic hub theories of conceptual represen- — -5
by Barsalou [16]. The mechanism of Embodied Simulation, tation. In fact, according to the latter, there is a ‘unique brain = =
whose proposal was originally driven by the discovery of area equally necessary for processing all types of meaning’ or =
mirror neurons [22,23], has been considered by many as the concepts (see Pulvermiiller [19, p. 458], who also criticizes -
neural implementation of perceptual symbols (see Cuccio semantic hub theories). On the contrary, Embodied Simu- 2
[33] for a discussion). However, we submit that Embodied lation theory and perceptual symbols theory contend that S
Simulation/icons significantly differ from perceptual sym- concepts and meanings are multimodal (although, as we w
bols. Theoretically, icons are much less demanding and have seen, they adopt two significantly different notions of |=‘
much more plausible notions than symbols. Indeed, as we multimodality): several brain areas contribute to the proces- ©
have seen, icons are natural signs that refer to their objects sing of both concepts and linguistic meanings. 3
only in virtue of their own structure, on the basis of which Thus, any occurrence of a simulation routine, in our view, &
a similarity relation is established. Furthermore, icons are might be considered to have an iconic nature. In our propo-