one of the conditions identifying concepts [20]. superior temporal sulcus) while participants processed the
Let us now turn to humans. There is ample evidence that meaning of convince, and increased activation in regions associ-
mirror mechanisms for action, emotions and sensations are ated with mathematical processing (intraparietal sulcus and
also present in the human brain [47,50]. This led to the propo- superior parietal cortex) while participants processed the mean-
sal of an embodied approach to intersubjectivity—Embodied ing of arithmetic. Another recent example of the relationship
Simulation theory [25,31,47]. Embodied Simulation and the between the processing of abstract concepts and the activation
related notion of neural reuse provide a new empirically of experience-dependent bodily-related cortical regions is pro-
based perspective on intersubjectivity, viewed first and fore- vided by the study by Constantinescu et al. [63], showing that
most as intercorporeality. Embodied Simulation is conceived the same brain areas that map in a grid-like fashion spatial
of as a non-conscious, pre-reflective functional mechanism of navigation are also activated when individuals are mentally
the brain—body system, whose function is to model objects, navigating conceptual two-dimensional knowledge.
agents and events. The notions of ‘neural exploitation’ In summary, despite the preliminary—and__ partly
[18,20] and ‘neural reuse’ [47,51,52] refer to the fact that controversial—nature of the empirical evidence on the way
sensorimotor systems, originally evolved to guide our inter- abstract concepts are mapped by the brain—body, it seems to
actions with the world, once decoupled from the common us that this perspective might offer an exciting opportunity to
final motor pathway and dynamically reconnected with further pursue the search for the neurobiological grounding of
other cortical areas, can be put into the service of newly conceptual knowledge and a better understanding of its evol-
acquired cognitive skills. The newly acquired commitment utionary origin. In the next section, we propose a hypothesis,
of sensorimotor neural resources would have allowed the built upon the Peircean notion of icon, on how Embodied Simu-
grounding of language and conceptual thought. lation might offer an empirically based theoretical solution to the
How do we develop, as humans, conceptual knowledge? problem of bodily grounding concrete and abstract concepts.

Research has shown that humans develop their conceptual

knowledge in a gradual fashion, progressively gaining greater .