It is worth noting that, in the light of our proposal, the resolved through a form of diagrammatic reasoning that is = &
embodiment of abstract and concrete concepts can be inter- based on the recall of a simulation routine. This knowledge
preted in two different but not mutually exclusive ways. On (the simulation routine) allows us to identify the similarity
the one hand, the expression ‘embodiment of concepts’ usually relation, for example, between our past actions and experi-
refers to the direct recruitment of the sensorimotor system ences, and the actions and experiences of the people we are
during conceptual processing (e.g. [20]). This is the sense of observing. Thanks to the identification of this similarity
‘embodiment’ most frequently discussed in the current Embo- relation, we can, thus, go from the premise of the inference
died Cognition debate. On the other hand, the ‘embodiment of (the actions observed, in this example) to its conclusion (our
concepts’ also alludes to the phylogenetic and ontogenetic understanding of those actions). Simulation routines are, in
acquisition of the ability to conceptualize (e.g. [18,68]). this account, the background bodily knowledge on which the
Having said so, we still need to prove that simulation inference is based. They are a model of our own bodily experi-
routines are iconically interpreted in human cognition. In ences. Thus, our body, in this inferential process, becomes an
fact, as we know, the iconic character of a sign depends on icon of itself that we use to understand ourselves and others
the interpretation of that sign. Although Embodied Simu- and to obtain new knowledge both on ourselves and others
lation seems to match the defining features that Peirce (for a more detailed discussion of this point, see [41]).
ascribed to icons, still it is true that, to a certain degree, every- Interestingly, Peirce’s notion of abduction is usually
thing could be interpreted as an icon, depending on the level considered as the equivalent of the Aristotelian notion of
of abstraction and schematization at which we identify and apagoghé (Peirce himself acknowledged this; see CP 1.65
interpret the similarity relation. It is, thus, a fundamental and 7.249). Both inferential processes are, indeed, hypotheti-
step in our argument to show that the role of Embodied cal, and both allow us to broaden our knowledge.
Simulation in human cognition can be explained in terms Furthermore, in his writings, Peirce also refers to the Aristo-
of the establishment of iconic relations. To do so, we will telian notion of paradeigma (a form of analogical reasoning
resort to the Peircean notion of abduction and to the role typical of rhetorical contexts; see CP 1.65), which he defined
icons have in this kind of inference. Abduction is a mode of as a combination of the characters of induction (epagoghé) and
reasoning (deduction and induction are the other two) retroduction/abduction (apagoghe). Indeed, while in the Prior