by Barsalou [16]. The mechanism of Embodied Simulation, tation. In fact, according to the latter, there is a ‘unique brain = =
whose proposal was originally driven by the discovery of area equally necessary for processing all types of meaning’ or =
mirror neurons [22,23], has been considered by many as the concepts (see Pulvermiiller [19, p. 458], who also criticizes -
neural implementation of perceptual symbols (see Cuccio semantic hub theories). On the contrary, Embodied Simu- 2
[33] for a discussion). However, we submit that Embodied lation theory and perceptual symbols theory contend that S
Simulation/icons significantly differ from perceptual sym- concepts and meanings are multimodal (although, as we w
bols. Theoretically, icons are much less demanding and have seen, they adopt two significantly different notions of |=‘
much more plausible notions than symbols. Indeed, as we multimodality): several brain areas contribute to the proces- ©
have seen, icons are natural signs that refer to their objects sing of both concepts and linguistic meanings. 3
only in virtue of their own structure, on the basis of which Thus, any occurrence of a simulation routine, in our view, &
a similarity relation is established. Furthermore, icons are might be considered to have an iconic nature. In our propo-
already abstract schematizations and, last but not least, they sal, on these basic natural signs rest, both phylogenetically
do not imply any conventional relation. Conventionality is, and ontogenetically, the capacity to conceptualize. In fact,
instead, intrinsically present in the notion of symbol, but as abstract schematizations, icons/Embodied Simulation are
not implied by Embodied Simulation. Indeed, it could the first and primary sources of categorization at our dispo-
hardly be claimed that the motor simulation, let us say, of sal. The mechanism of Embodied Simulation provides us
the action of grasping a fork refers to its object (the action with categorical schematization of objects, actions, emotions
of grasping a fork performed by someone else) by virtue of and perceptual experiences. These first and rudimentary
an arbitrary and conventional relation agreed upon between categorical schematizations will then be the basis for the for-
the observer and the observed person. From a neuroscientific mation of concepts. This is so because, in our proposal, we
point of view, while the Embodied Simulation mechanism is consider iconic relationships as the basis to achieve more
based on the re-enactment of self-generated actions, percep- complex forms of referential relationships, especially sym-
tions and emotions, simulations of perceptual symbols are bolic ones, that might be involved in the relation that holds
reactivation of perceptual states. This makes a huge differ- between concepts and what they refer to. The hierarchical
ence. In his 1999 famous paper, Barsalou [16, p. 578] nature of referential relationships has been highlighted by