number line’. In line with the observation that the SNARC 1000 permutations, uncorrected p < 0.005. A region of interest
effect is typically not observed earlier than in 9-year-old chil- (ROI) analysis was also included to examine the left ATL and
dren and becomes stronger from childhood to elderly age left AG, two areas that often emerge during semantic processing,
[25,26], it has been suggested that it reflects the long-term prac- which were also corrected using the same parameters.
tice of using spatial information in processing numerical Studies included for the numerical concepts domain were
magnitude [27,28] and establishment of a reading—writing selected on the basis of meta-analyses by Arsalidou & Taylor
system [29]. The exact nature of the spatial information [47] and Sokolowski et al. [48]. From the 146 studies included
recruited during numerical magnitude processing seems to across these two meta-analyses, we only included studies that
be modulated by cross-cultural differences in the direction of investigated numerical magnitude processing by means of
the writing system [30-32]. Furthermore, it has been shown symbolic stimuli (ie. Arabic numerals like ‘1, 5’ or written
that the SNARC effect is modulated by finger counting habits number words like ‘three, nine’, in either the visual or auditory
and hand preference [33,34]. This finding might reflect the modality) and that did not involve any calculation of some
fact that the direction of the spatial—numerical association sort (e.g. multiplication or addition). Contrasts that involved
given by a writing system seems to be an important determi- judging numerosity or counting (e.g. five circles versus seven
nant in shaping finger counting habits [35]. Moreover, an circles) were removed. Furthermore, we excluded positron
influence of finger counting habits and hand preference emission tomography (PET) studies, studies that used children
might signify the coexistence of multiple number—space map- as subjects, studies that did not include a control for general
pings that are based on either extra-personal physical space or executive processing (e.g. number comparison versus rest),
finger counting habits. Findings from studies that tried to dis- studies that used tasks that heavily relied on other cognitive
entangle these influences are mixed, with some studies processes (e.g. delayed-number matching) and studies that
reporting a stronger influence of body-based than space- only used contrasts that focus on higher-order numerical
based representations [36,37], while other studies found the processing (e.g. positive versus negative integers, congruent
reverse pattern [38,39]. Altogether, findings have shown that versus incongruent, comparing different number ratios).
numerical magnitude information shares computational pro- After screening all studies, 23 separate contrasts remained,
cesses with spatial representations that are based on either with a total of 126 foci from 375 participants (figure 1;