icons have in this kind of inference. Abduction is a mode of as a combination of the characters of induction (epagoghé) and
reasoning (deduction and induction are the other two) retroduction/abduction (apagoghe). Indeed, while in the Prior
whose inferential path is characterized by the fact that it ‘pre- Analytics (11.24 [78]), Aristotle defined the paradeigma (the
sents facts in its Premise which present a similarity to the fact exemplum, in the Latin translation) as an inference where
stated in the Conclusion’ (CP 2.96). In other words, abduction ‘the major term is proved to belong to the middle by means
is an inference based on an iconic relation. The premise is of a term which resembles the third’ (this definition seems to
connected to the conclusion through the recall of some back- suggest that paradigmatic reasoning is an inference based
ground knowledge, the ‘rule’ in Peircean terms. This latter on an analogy), at the same time, in the Rhetorics (1356b
can be thought of as a diagrammatic model, or icon, on the 14-15 [76]) he defined the paradeigma as the transposition of
basis of which we can connect the facts stated in the premise inductive reasoning in rhetorical contexts. Thus, paradig-
with those stated in the conclusion. The abductive inference matic reasoning shares some of the features that
has a hypothetical nature: by reasoning on the ‘rule’/icon, characterize the iconic logic of abduction and, at the same
we can discover new elements about the facts we are observ- time, it also presents characters that typically identify induc-
ing and hypothesize new solutions. Abductive inferences, tion. As we pointed out in a previous work [52], for these
thus, make us able to acquire new knowledge. reasons it seems to be, too, a good model to describe the cog-
Let us now turn again to the mechanism of Embodied nitive role of the mechanism of Embodied Simulation.
Simulation. In our everyday life, the activation of this mech- The paradeigma, among rhetorical argumentations, is that
anism can be considered as the recall of a background bodily which goes from the particular to the particular, from an

knowledge that we recruit in several different situations. We exemplary case to the present situation. Argumentation


based on the paradeigma does not make a claim for universal- us to elaborate its abstract representation. At the same time, | 8 |

ity. The orator is not bound to offer an exhaustive number of the degree of involvement of sensorimotor information