emotions in dmPFC, ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), described explicitly). S
ACC and precuneus/pCi, in addition to amygdala and OFC, S

in a multivoxel analysis. Classification generalized between
movies and imagery methods. We suggest that the medial

frontal regions and precuneus/pCi are unlikely to be special- 4, Morality
ized for emotion processing, although they may be Morality has been defined as a set of guiding principles that
upregulated by emotional content. Domains with extensive includes standards of right and wrong conduct, or rules that
activation in these regions (emotion, ToM and moral judge- guide us in our everyday choices and actions [130]. Moral
ments) take place during social interactions or elicit judgements involve decisions about what we would do
memories of interactions in the form of episodes or events. when faced with a moral dilemma, or evaluations of the
The fact that emotional movies and mental imagery activate decisions and actions of others in situations that involve
these regions, and the activity generalizes across the modal- moral principles like harm, justice and fairness. Deciding
ities, supports this view. A meta-analysis comparing social what to do when faced with a moral dilemma or deciding
cognition, emotional processing and introspection found over- whether an action is right or wrong might involve slightly
lapping areas between emotional and social cognition that different processes [131], with the former relying on
included the orbitofrontal and medial frontal cortex [117]. additional _ self-referential processes [132]. Theoretical
The ROI analysis also revealed some activation for the left accounts have argued for a role of abstract-inferential, self-
AG during emotion processing, which overlaps with the referential and emotional processes in moral judgements.
larger temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) clusters for morality For example, studies suggest that moral cognition is influ-
and ToM, and is discussed later. enced by the perceived intentionality of agents’ actions
The left ATL also emerged in the ROI analysis. Among its [133-135]. To judge whether an agent’s action is intentional
many associated functions, such as general semantics, sen- requires the ability to infer other’s desires, thoughts and be-
tence processing, short-term memory, social cognition and havioural dispositions [136,137] often captured by the term