the selective nature of embodied simulations requires a hier- his view, inner speech can help the child organize, plan and
archical neuroanatomical organization, both internal to, and remember actions [91]. Clark [92] emphasizes the degree to
across, specific modalities [70,81]. Finally, this approach also which language is a physical transformation of our ‘cognitive
holds that the degree and form of embodiment is likely to niche’ that extends the abilities of the embodied mind. The act
change over the course of development [82,83]. of labelling, for instance, may help learners become attuned to
There will be some that argue that these features have been perceptual commonalities and overcome the inherent complex-
part of their conception of embodiment all along. After all, ity and noisiness of perceptual inputs [93,94]. More broadly,
Barsalou [7] cites the ability to explain flexibility as a major language creates a novel set of perceptual objects and targets
benefit of his approach. Moreover, Connell & Lynott [84] for action. This enables us to model the world by means of the
contend that the dynamic influences that the body, the environ- manipulation of an external and shared symbol system.
ment, the relevant goals and the task have on our conceptual The suggestion on the table is that language augments
representations imply that ‘you can’t represent the same embodied cognition. Part of the impetus for this proposal is
concept twice’. Wilson & Golonka [71] propose that task- that the symbolic character of language—the fact that it is an
dependence is a central component of embodied cognition. externally derived symbol system that is both compositional
My intention is not to claim exclusive priority but merely to and productive—offers a number of potential cognitive
codify what I see as the best approach. benefits. One of these is the common absence of a direct con-
There will be others, though, who claim that the view out- nection between linguistic representations and their referents.
lined in this essay amounts to a disavowal of embodied This semantic arbitrariness may help them anchor embodied
cognition [62]. While I disagree with this assessment, not and grounded knowledge. Giving voice to this idea, Zwaan
much hangs on this. The central role played by situated sen- [84] hypothesizes that distributed linguistic representations

sorimotor simulations in this account seems sufficient to serve as symbolic placeholders for multimodal simulations.


An additional cognitive benefit may arise from the fact that phenomenon in which language appears to scaffold our cogni- 5 |