conscious experiences: when participants are asked to suggests abstract odour vocabulary is less grounded in 2
report imagery they experience on the hour, every hour, multi-modal sensory experience. Accordingly, this predicts S
visual images abound, occurring around 60% of the time; that Jahai participants who describe odours with abstract w
but olfactory imagery appears as little as 1% of the time vocabulary might have weaker emotional associations to
[10]. This suggests that odour representations are fragile. odours. Conversely, abstract words are said to be more ©
Similarly, odours appear difficult to verbalize [5,11-16]. emotionally-loaded [29,30], which would predict that Jahai
Even when presented with familiar odours, speakers struggle participants should evince stronger emotional reactions to
to name them on the basis of smell alone [14—16]. When Eng- odours as a function of their specific linguistic encoding.
lish speakers do name odours, they typically refer to their The current paper re-visits the issue of olfactory abstrac-
source (e.g. smells like lemon), suggesting that when they are tion across cultures, and investigates its interaction with
able to identify an odour they think of it in concrete terms emotion. We asked a larger sample of men and women in
[17]. That is, odours trigger bounded, cohesive object Jahai and Dutch to name monomolecular odorants, while
concepts [18]. In fact, Hans Henning claimed: ‘olfactory measuring both verbal (odour names and reaction times)
abstraction is impossible. We can easily abstract the and non-verbal (facial expression) responses. We used
common shared colour—i.e. white—of jasmine, lily-of-the- ‘abstract’ monomolecular odorants (not clearly associated
valley, camphor and milk, but no man can similarly abstract with any concrete source) to investigate whether this would
a common odour by attending to what they have in common lure Western participants to produce more ‘abstract’ verbal
and setting aside their differences’ [19, p. 66]. responses; thus testing task parameters for abstraction in
This view has been challenged recently by cross-cultural odour naming [31]. In addition, we sought to establish
research. In some communities instead of talking about whether Jahai and Dutch participants had ‘universal’ non-
odours in terms of objects, dedicated vocabulary for referring verbal responses to odorants or whether emotional reactions
to odour qualities is used instead [16,20-23]. These terms varied cross-linguistically. That is, do Jahai and Dutch partici-
have been coined ‘abstract’ because they do not refer to any pants find the same odours pleasant and unpleasant (as
specific source. For example, in the language Jahai—spoken measured by their facial expressions), but only later differen-
by a hunter-gatherer community in the rainforest of the tiate in terms of their verbal responses; or do the two groups