a disproportionate impairment with abstract words compared with their age-matched peers, but they can correctly recognize
with concrete, as confirmed by the lack of a concreteness by an equivalent number of words (both abstract and concrete)
group interaction, supported by a Bayes factor in favour of compared with their vocabulary-matched peers (as showed
the null hypothesis. Interestingly, when looking at the by the lexical decision task). However, they cannot provide
comparison between DLD children and their vocabulary- the same level of quality of definitions. It is worth noting
matched peers, we found no significant differences at all. The here that TD,,. children were matched to our DLD children

lexical decision task, however, only gives us an indication of on receptive vocabulary scores, but the definitions task requires


expressive language skills, which are impaired in children with TD, ¢) reported in the electronic supplementary material sup- | 8 |

DLD (as also supported by the fact that their definitions were ports the idea that sensory-motor associations are crucial for
shorter than those of TD children). concrete words while affective associations are crucial for a
Taken together, our lexical decision results as well as the abstract words [11]. Here, we found that definitions of concrete s
results from analysis of definition accuracy, definition quality concepts include more perceptual features of the referent, their a
ratings and the comparisons of individual DLD children with spatial location or function, as well as superordinate levels — 2
the TD groups, do not provide clear support for linguistic pri- of the taxonomy, while abstract concepts’ definitions include 5
macy in the learning of abstract words and concepts. When more situational and emotional features. These different =
language development is impaired, as is the case for DLD features provide a clear distinction between abstract and con- =
children, knowledge of both abstract and concrete words is crete categories, at least in TD children. According to the ‘2
impaired. When expressive vocabulary is not required, chil- same analysis, however, definitions of abstract and concrete ©
dren with DLD perform like younger TD children with words in DLD children are less clearly distinct, and it seems = -5
equivalent receptive vocabulary. This suggests that the less clear whether children with DLD make use of embodied =
same factors might support the learning of new words in emotional and situational features when defining abstract con- =