sadness thirst morphine, sex
that were dominated by interoception tended to come from midpoint of the concreteness scale with ratings between 3.00
a wider variety of domains that incorporated those of con- and 3.13 (e.g. rage), as did six control concepts (e.g. destroy),
crete concepts and additionally included concepts related to but as these items represent only 1% of the dataset we continue
emotion and cognition. For example, the five most abstract to refer to the items as abstract for convenience. Concreteness
interoceptively dominant words were spiritually, belief, enligh- ratings were on average 2.01 (s.d. = 0.33) for emotion concepts
tening, intuitively and ambivalent, all of which were moderately and 2.00 (s.d. = 0.33) for abstract control concepts. We also
or strongly interoceptive. made a simultaneous effort to match on valence but ratings
In summary, interoceptive experience provides a potential were available for only 240 emotion concepts [35], for which
means of grounding concepts across the full spectrum of con- we selected a non-emotion concept with a similar valence
creteness, but appears to be more important to abstract rating to act as a matched control (e.g. emotion concept angst
concepts than to concrete concepts. At least some of this differ- matched with non-emotion control trickery). We estimated
ence emerges from the fact that emotion concepts, which are the valence of a further 234 emotion concepts from their
overwhelmingly abstract both in participant judgements and lemmas (e.g. valence rating for anxiously based on that for
theoretical assumptions (e.g. [3,28,31-33]), tend to be strongly anxious) and then selected non-emotion matched controls as
reliant on interoception. We examine the interoceptive nature above (e.g. incoherently). We classified a final 73 concepts as
of emotions in more depth in the next study. positive or negative valence based on their core emotion cat-

egory (i.e. anger, fear, disgust and sadness words were classed

as negative; love, happiness and surprise words were classed as
4. Stu dy 2: intero cepti on in emotion con cepts positive [34,36]) and then selected a non-emotion matched con-
trol from the same valence class (e.g. perturbed was classified as
negative valence so we selected non-emotion negative concept
deceptive as a matched control).