cerned the mechanisms by which remote sites in a protein degradation machinery. They show how ATP binding, =
communicate with each other. Insights into this issue can hydrolysis and exchange differ between these machines ina “2
be obtained by characterizing allosteric intermediates and manner tailored for their respective functions. s
identifying communication routes (if such exist) in the Cooperativity in biological systems is manifested not only — =
protein structures. Stock & Hamm [8] describe time-resolved in binding but also in folding reactions. Moreover, binding =
infrared spectroscopy experiments and non-equilibrium mol- and folding reactions can take place in a coupled fashion. =
ecular dynamics simulations that actually indicate the Itzhaki and co-workers [19] discuss cooperativity in the fold- -
absence of well-defined communication pathways in the ing of repeat proteins, and Hilser and co-workers [20] show 2
structure of the small monomeric protein PDZ2, thereby that signal propagation between domains is maximized S
suggesting that allosteric transitions may resemble downhill when one or more of them are disordered. They also discuss w
folding. By contrast, allosteric wiring is found to exist in the the concept of ‘energetic frustration’ used in the field of —
chaperonin GroEL as reported by Thirumalai & Hyeon [9], protein folding with regard to allostery. One of the important 5
who use a structural perturbation computational method. conclusions of the meeting was, in fact, that a better under- = S
Ozkan and co-workers describe a related metric termed standing of allostery can be achieved by borrowing ideas = &
‘dynamic flexibility index’ that provides a measure for how and using methods in the area of protein folding.

much an amino acid is affected by perturbations elsewhere The meeting itself, and this issue of the Transactions,

in the protein and apply it for the case of thioredoxin [10]. indicate a current resurgence of interest in the vital information-
These approaches show that when finer-grained understand- transmitting process of allostery in molecular biology.

ings of allostery are explored, the physical components of Jacques Monod termed allostery the ‘second secret of life’
MWC-like structural change and allosteron fluctuation bot! [21]. Prescient as always, the import of this deep remark is

tend to be present. only now becoming clear. Biological matter must be able to