presence of disordered N-terminal domains (NTD) of vari- A more concrete illustration of the ensemble nature of pro- =
able length (figure 1, bottom). The DBD exhibits the highest teins is given by focusing on the structured GR DBD. In S
sequence conservation of all the SHR domains, while the addition to the high overall sequence conservation, the fold -
NTD exhibits little conservation, making this region difficult of this domain is found in many other protein families 2
to align and transitively infer its structure or function besides the SHR family, testifying to its functional utility S
(figure 1). Despite the lack of sequence conservation, these throughout evolution [37-39]. Surveying only the multiple w
disordered domains are functionally indispensable, being known structures of GR DBD, of which there are more than =
required for transcriptional activity [25]. Moreover, the ID 60 with identical amino-acid sequences to the human [40],a ©
NTD of GR has been shown to go through coupled binding surprisingly diverse set of conformers are observed ©
and folding events [26-30]. What is described in the follow- (figure 2 and [42]). These conformers can be considered as a
ing work likely applies to the broader nuclear receptor (NR) a ‘sub-ensemble’, relative to any additional degrees of free-
superfamily [31], of which the SHR family is a part, and the dom available to the molecule outside the crystal. Despite
general thermodynamic concepts can be applied to other ID, the fact that all these DBD snapshots are ‘structured’, the
or structured, allosteric systems [17,32]. individual structures exhibit a striking degree of variability:

extensive loop regions occupy different conformations, corre-
sponding helices are of variable lengths and the N-terminal
beta hairpin clearly shows different degrees of foldedness

2. The protein ensemble: structure and disorder

(figure 2).

Every protein in general, and GR in particular, cycles through Many of the pairwise comparisons of different structures
a large number of possible conformational states at equili- result in minimum root mean squared deviations (RMSDs) of