hydrolysis, preventing futile energy consumption. The high single-molecule studies have shown that the transition most
ATPase activity observed after oligomerization results from affected by the substitution is ATP hydrolysis [16]. These
catalytic pocket sites at the interface of each pair of adjacent studies, together with molecular dynamic simulations, show
subunits [28] (figure 3). ATP hydrolysis rates in the catalytic that the a-subunit plays an activating role by contributing its
sites are enhanced by trans-acting arginine residues that trans-acting arginine to the catalytic site (figures 3a and 4a).
stabilize the transition state (figure 4a). In heteromeric ring Interestingly, recent studies based on high-speed atomic force
motors, ATP hydrolysis in the catalytic subunits—containing microscopy show that rotor-less a383 complexes exhibit ATP-
both the nucleotide-binding pocket and catalytic residues— induced dynamic conformational changes and_ binding
are activated by the non-catalytic subunits—contributing asymmetry similar to those observed during the operation of
the arginine residues (figure 3a). The catalytic and non- the full Fl-ATPase complex [31]. This observation indicates
catalytic subunits have different sequences and often differ that the a- and B-subunits are fully competent to propagate
significantly in their tertiary structures. In homomeric ring signals between catalytic sites without the concourse of the
motors, ATP hydrolysis in the catalytic sites is activated by y-subunit (figure 3a). The fact that mutants of the arginine
arginine residues provided by identical neighbouring sub- finger abolish multi-site catalysis [32] suggested that the a-sub-
units (figure 3b). In each subunit, the nucleotide-binding unit, via its arginine finger, plays an important role in
pocket and catalytic residues are located at the opposite transmitting signals between catalytic sites. Isolated B-subunits
side of the arginine finger. Below we review several hetero- are known to undergo large conformational changes upon
meric and homomeric ring ATPases where subunits take on nucleotide binding [33] that closely resemble the open-to-
the role of activating factors to stimulate ATP hydrolysis closed conformation transition. By contrast, isolated «-subunits
in the neighbouring catalytic pocket. We will also discuss exhibit much more limited conformational changes upon ligand
allosteric processes that enable sequential subunit stimulation. binding in bulk studies [34]. However, molecular dynamic

simulations show that the open-to-closed conformational
transition in a-subunits is essentially barrierless [35], imply-
