that the task taxes visuospatial working memory resources studies showed, as predicted based on studies with experimen-
which are thought necessary to (re)store intrusive memories tal trauma which used the same outcome measure [106-109],
with strong visual components [108], acting as a ‘cognitive that the intervention group recorded significantly fewer intru-
blockade’. In line with this notion, non-visuospatial tasks sions in a diary that they kept in the week following the
appear to be less effective or have no effect ([107,109], but see traumatic event compared with control groups.
[111]). Crucially, when using a visuospatial task, across several Targeting simple phobias and recent real-life trauma
studies the cognitive blockade selectively reduced intrusion memory (i.e. a prevention approach because this is before a clini-
frequency (involuntary recall), while leaving verbal and cal diagnosis of PTSD can be made) may be regarded as an early
visual recognition (voluntary memory) intact (figure 1) (for a step of intermediate clinical complexity, compared with labora-
review, see [79]). As mentioned before, that a task could selec- tory research in healthy individuals on the one hand, and the
tively reduce the number of intrusive memories while sparing more severe anxiety disorders and PTSD on the other (figure
voluntary memory of a traumatic event is desirable from a clini- 2). The more complex the memory becomes (e.g. older, or mul-
cal perspective: someone would still be able to recall the factual tiple events), the more important it is to define what aspect of the
course of events that constitute the trauma (e.g. recognize the memory is being targeted and what read-out is used to assess
perpetrator and testify in court), without having to fear being whether it is effective (figure 2), and to ensure the timing of
overtaken by unwanted intrusions of the trauma in their every- the intervention uses or induces periods of memory malleability
day life. Yet, the mechanisms behind this are still not fully (figure 3). Real trauma memories are typically stronger and
understood and require further investigation [112]. broader than aversive memories formed in the laboratory.
Recently, findings from conditioning studies in non-clinical Case studies [117] and pilot studies [118], which combined a
volunteers have been translated to emotional memory for real- memory reactivation procedure and propranolol administration
life events in sub-clinical populations (figure 2). Three studies to block reconsolidation of trauma memories in patients with
suggested that phobic responses could be decreased via reconso- PTSD, seem to be promising, though many more are needed
lidation-update mechanisms ([59], snake or spider phobia; [113], to understand potential limitations and non-replications (see
spider phobia; [114]). The procedure involved brief exposure to next section). Such small-scale work helps to get the right ingre-
the object of fear (long enough to reactivate the memory, but dients to develop a new treatment. To test effectiveness of a