overexpression gold standard (figure 4). lation) or to nodes of low degree (negative degree correlation).
The degree correlation coefficient of —0.47 confirms the
F . ' star-like structure.

(e) Predicted topologies of the TF—TF network differ In the network reconstructed by ARACNE, interactions are
strongly focused on a small fraction of all nodes, which form the centre
We next used the top-performing algorithms to predict the of the largest connected component. The centre of this con-
topology of the gene regulatory network in differentiating nected component is formed by Oct4, Sox2 and Nanog
mESC, and asked if there is a clear hierarchy between core (OSN), among others. This is reflected in the very low mean
pluripotency factors and ancillary pluripotency factors [14]. rank of the degrees of this core triad. Similar to the literature
Another interesting aspect that could be inferred from network, the ARACNE network has a low modularity and
the topology is how pluripotency factors are coupled to also a relatively low diameter. It differs from the literature net-
lineage-specific factors in order to regulate the transition work in its degree correlation, which is positive. This fact
from the maintenance of pluripotency to the commitment points towards a hierarchy of nodes, with the highest degree
to certain lineages [34]. nodes connected to the next highest degree nodes, and so on.
To derive the network topology, we applied the three The network predicted by partial correlation has the high-
top-performing algorithms and took the top 0.1% of inter- est fraction of nodes with small degree among the predicted
actions across the predicted network. The predicted networks networks. Also, the degree correlation is near zero, indicat-
are shown together with the literature-based network in ing that there is little substructure in the largest connected
figure 5a. These visualizations unveil that the networks exhibit component. There are no communities that are only con-
very different topologies. We next compared the topological nected to other communities via gateway nodes, resulting
properties of the literature network and the predicted networks in a comparably low diameter and the largest connected com-
by quantifying some standard measures (table 1). The degree ponent of all predicted networks. The mean rank of the
distribution (figure 5b) of the literature network shows an degree of the core triad is higher than for ARACNE, reflecting
