Walking between and to various transport modes depends with purposive behaviour of the human variety based on
on non-automated data which is hard to get although in decision-making that attempts to optimize socio-economic
time, some of this data might be acquired by automation costs and benefits, but, to a large extent, all these approaches
using smart phone technology, subject of course to important are need to complement one another.
limits on privacy and confidentiality. These then are some of When we scale up to cities which we represent by subdi-
the problems that plague these kinds of applications. vision into small zones or neighbourhoods, sometimes called

We noted above that the discrete choice models we have TAZs (Traffic Assignment/ Analysis Zones) which often have
introduced here can be used to compute the probabilities of a few thousand trip makers located within, we usually adapt
individuals making different kinds of trips during any these to simulate all the trips that are generated in each of
period of time. These models treat individuals as agents these zones. We can also use the same kinds of utilities
and enable the sequence of origins and destinations that based on benefits less costs that we specified in our generic
take place when individuals travel to be simulated. Essen- equations listed previously in (4.1) to (4.5). In fact, the
tially, each individual has a travel profile and time budget model we specified in these equations is what is called
that needs to be met in terms of their daily activities. An indi- singly-constrained in that the flows or trips generated sum
vidual will then generate trips to satisfy their daily activities to the activity at the origins i while the model is designed
schedule, and this leads to these trips being assigned to the to predict activity at the destinations j. Formally then
network. Where they travel to is dependent on predictions O,(t) =, OF(t) = DK Fi where we aggregate over k indi-
from the models noted above, and these predictions are viduals and j destinations and Dj(t) = >°; Di(t) =u Fi
used to generate all the travel decisions during each individ- where we aggregate over k individuals and i origins. We
ual’s activity schedule. When all these trips are loaded still index these flows at a cross-section in time and insofar
(assigned) to the various networks, it is likely that the pattern as there is any dynamics, it is able to enter these equations
is not feasible in certain ways and this leads to positive feed- through the utility terms. But as such, there are no explicit
back that enables the individual traveller to make marginal dynamic processes based on feedbacks of the kind that are
changes in their schedules and locations that lead to another key to the way the city evolves. These models are still, at