space and time do we see different patterns across these because of the invisibility of this data. Over longer periods
scales. It is when these patterns change over longer time of time, we can observe changes in where people live and
scales that we can better detect variations at more local spatial work—changes which are implicit in migration patterns,
and temporal scales. and in measures of economic activity such as house prices
We need to make a simpler distinction with respect to and income and so on, all of which imply a degree of
time scales. In terms of time, we can define what we will change, hence movement but in a non-spatial sense. The
call the ‘high-frequency city’ and the ‘low-frequency city’. spatial dimension merges into the non-spatial when it
The high frequency is the city that contains movements that comes to cities and this too reveals how complex the structure
occur in real time and can be observed in real time or near of the city is with respect to its dynamics and the way its
real time such as the movements of individuals or emails or economic markets interact with one another
energy flows that can be monitored and aggregated from In terms of data, physical networks are the easiest to
seconds to minutes to hours and even to days, weeks and observe with the growth in network science spurred on by
months. Beyond this, we are really dealing with the low- the fact that many such networks are available for analysis.
frequency city where months turn into years and where Flows are much harder to record. These have to be gathered
years add to decades, centuries, epochs, eras and so on. Typi- using questionnaires which are expensive or by closed and
cal differences might be between journeys made during the robust automatic systems such as those used for recording
working day such as the journey to work from home com- transit payments. Many of the automated flow recording sys-
pared to residential relocations that take place over years. tems, beginning with analogue systems for recording flows of
To an extent all movement takes place in real time and the vehicles on roads, for example, cannot be integrated with

difference between the high- and low-frequency city is data pertaining to those who generate these flows—the


users—and hence the data, although accurate, is limited in its of doing this is to produce the vector fields that we show in 5 |
