study), the Al-Masjid Al-Haram (or Grand Mosque) covered behaviour at the Hajj, there has been almost no research on
an area of 356 800 m? (88.2 acres) [10]. The Mosque contains this topic. Understandably, most studies of the Hajj examine
the Ka’aba, a small black cube-shaped building that is the holi- the public health issue of disease (e.g. [13]). Where collective
est site on Earth to Muslims, since it is said to have been built behaviour is referred to, it tends to be only as a ‘panic’ or
by Abraham [11]. When Muslims pray, wherever they are in ‘stampede’ [14], despite the vast majority of Hajj rituals
the world, they turn in the direction of the Ka’aba (this is passing without incident.
known as qibla). On visits to Mecca, pilgrims circumambulate The emphasis on negative collective behaviour in pre-
the Ka’aba seven times (tawaf). During Hajj, they also attend vious research on the Hajj reflects the history of crowd
the Mosque for daily prayer, facing the Ka’aba. psychology, which has been overly preoccupied with crowd

The experience of seeing the Ka’aba is emotionally intense violence [15,16]. Classical crowd psychology claimed that
for pilgrims [12]. The communal nature of the experience is becoming ‘submerged’ in a crowd leads to a diminution of
emphasized by the fact that all the pilgrims wear a simple self; in this reduced psychological state, primitive aggressive
white robe for the majority of the rituals; this serves to drives, grounded in a ‘racial unconscious’ [17] or individual
convey unity, equality and universality in the shared sub- biology [18], would predominate, leading to uncontrolled

mission to God. But as well as joy and harmonious violence. One problem for this approach is that most crowd


Figure 3. Plaza outside the Grand Mosque.

events are peaceful. The approach notably fails to explain be- social identity [21] is the subjective perception that others
haviour at ritual and ceremonial crowd events, where the act are in the same social group as oneself, and indeed share self-
of coming together reinforces values and norms, rather than hood with one. Shared social identity has been shown reliably
leading people to abandon them [19,20]. to increase bystander helping [29], practical and emotional