Humans as a species are notoriously imitative. Perhaps, ological record. But modern day statistics presumably throw
every suicide is at some level a ‘copy-cat suicide’ (which I'll light on past history [3,4]. Today no fewer than 1.4% of all
return to later in the paper.) deaths worldwide are attributed to suicide, making it the

But, now, to go deeper: when you think ‘I can kill myself’, world’s leading cause of violent death. Across the world
who is this ‘self’ and what do you imagine will result from more people—some 800000 yr” '—die from suicide than all
‘killing’ it? Again, Stengel implies that early humans would wars and homicides combined. Many more make the attempt.
have understood the inevitable consequences of self-killing In total, 2.7% of the world’s population have tried to take their
from observing the killing of others. Bodily death, however own lives. Even more plan it. Fourteen per cent, of report, have
caused, has effects that anyone can see and take on board. had suicidal ideation at some stage.
There’s the obvious bodily decay. But the most salient These figures are enough to make any demographer sit
change is in the dead person’s role as an actor in the physical up and wonder. How could self-destructive behaviour on
or social world. They will not be coming back. This is a fact this scale have been persisting at such a high frequency?
of death that non-human animals with complex social lives What does this suggest about the effects—good or bad—of
can also understand up to a point. Frans de Waal describes suicide on human fitness? Common sense would say that
how, when a group of chimpanzees in the Arnhem Zoo were self-killing must be the ultimately disadvantageous act, a
shown a video film of the alpha-male, Nickie, who had died sure path to genetic oblivion. But maybe this is wrong.
by drowning 2 years earlier, his erstwhile rivals panicked as Could suicide be biologically adaptive after all?
if they had seen a ghost [2, p. 214]. By applying this to your As I implied at the outset, there would seem to be two
own case, you would realize that you yourself once dead will broad classes of suicide, distinguished by their motivation:
no longer participate directly in the lives of others. those concerned with benefiting other humans and those con-

But we must go deeper still. For there is, of course, another cerned with benefiting primarily the one who dies. We can call
meaning of ‘self’, and hence, the probability that self-killing will these, as Emile Durkheim did (but without necessarily buying
have a still more significant result. When your body dies, what into his theoretical framework), ‘altruistic’ and ‘egoistic’