private one? This is not of course something you or anyone have of what their death will immediately achieve.
else can discover from direct observation. But it is perhaps When someone kills themself in order to remove their
something you can deduce from circumstantial evidence. As a bodily person from the world, it would seem quite plausible
human, with a ‘theory of mind,’ you expect to be able to infer that they believe the knock-on effects will improve things for
another person’s mental state from their outward behaviour. others. Jesus dies on the cross in the hope that by this public
When, now, you observe that an individual’s body no longer sacrifice he can bring about the salvation of all mankind. Or,
behaves in any way at all—it neither acts spontaneously nor for a more straightforward example, Captain Oates stumbles
reacts to your probes—you have very good reason to suppose out from his cabin to die in the snow in the hope that, by
there is no longer anyone at home inside. True, absence of evi- relieving other members of Scott’s polar expedition from
dence is not entirely reliable as evidence of absence. But, in fact, the burden of supporting him, he can give them a better
you yourself have had plenty of direct experience of your own chance of survival.
mind going absent at a time of pseudo-death. When you fall This is altruistic suicide. Could it be biologically adap-
asleep, and your body becomes motionless and unresponsive, tive? It clearly could be if it does, in fact, benefit the
you know for a fact that your mind temporarily vanishes. subject’s kin or social group. In one of the earliest statements
You may remember how as a child you cried yourself to sleep of the principle of kin selection, Haldane is reported to have

and found blessed relief in the ensuing oblivion. said ‘I would gladly give up my life for two brothers or eight


cousins’ [5, p. 496]. Humans do not, like social insects, have a
propensity for specific acts of suicide hardwired into their
brains. But humans are nonetheless genetically primed with
feelings of love and obligation for family and friends. Many
theorists accept that this could partly explain why humans
are willing to sacrifice themselves for the common good—