Herrmann et al. [40]. It is therefore possible that the inconsist- delays. Individual differences in temporal discounting might
ent results might be due to methodological differences therefore be supported by different cognitive processes
between the studies rather than differences between the two [44,52]. Indeed, investigations of the neural correlates of
chimpanzee samples. This highlights the vital importance of response inhibition and choice impulsivity (or temporal
task choice and inclusion in test battery design. Nevertheless, discounting) cast doubt on whether the same cognitive
the results from the PCTB yielded patterns of correlation processes are involved here [53], which would explain the
and dissociation that provided some evidence for construct inconsistent individual differences between DoG and other
validity (box 1), in particular for spatial cognition, although self-control tasks.
the details of cognitive mechanisms underlying these Nevertheless, this meta-analysis is consistent with the
common factors remain opaque. notion of some common cognitive ability underpinning

tasks aiming at measuring inhibitory control in humans,
though it seems unlikely to be unitary. In fact, it has been pro-
posed that inhibitory control can be further decomposed into

(b) Beyond g and social/physical cognition? three subcomponents including stimulus detection, action
In the following, we will review some studies that have been selection and action execution [54]. Whether this common
anchored in a more ‘psychological’ approach to test battery factor should be labelled inhibitory control (or a suite of
design. Rather than starting from ethology and using factor inhibitory control abilities) depends on whether discriminant
analysis to examine the structure of the underlying cognition, validity (box 1) can be established with other constructs such
these studies start from hypotheses about the nature of as general intelligence, shifting and working memory. An
cognition and have compared species that inhabit different assessment of individual differences in EF in humans
socio-ecological niches to examine hypotheses about the showed that tasks aiming at measuring inhibitory control
evolutionary causes/consequences of differences in specific did not load onto an independent factor but on a common
