dataset. Furthermore, a confirmatory factor analysis also than cognitive training alone [41].
revealed a good fit of the model with a single latent variable Instead of (or in addition to) the conclusion that GCA was
influencing all learning tasks of our battery, and the loadings helped by environmental enrichment, it is possible that GCA
were all significant. At first glance, 19.5% might seem a low was harmed by adverse environments (such as the sterile
value for a general cognitive factor in comparison to typical home conditions encountered by our control group). In typi-
values of 50% in humans. Note, however, that the cognitive cal laboratory conditions (as experienced by the control
tasks composing modern human IQ tests are the result of a mice), mice are inhabiting an environment not expected by
slow and gradual intentional selection for tasks that load natural selection, while in our enrichment condition, mice
well with others [37]. Tasks that had poor correlations with encounter an environment that is a little closer to what
other tasks were changed or removed over the decades. The their genotypes might be adapted to. Note, however, that
mouse learning battery we used here is not the culmination not everything that is ‘natural’ is helpful, and not everything
of a similar process, and thus reflect less of that ‘bias’. In that is ‘artificial’ leads to harm. Mice in the laboratory
fact, the learning tasks in our battery were designed to be dis- environment have free and guaranteed access to food,
tinct in many parameters (described in Material and water and shelter. In the wild, they do not. These ‘artificial’
methods), and so the existence of a single factor that explains experiences might reasonably be expected to help in promot-
one-fifth of that variance is rather striking. ing cognitive performance. However, laboratory mice are also
The present study combines a full-sibling design with a deprived socially, are deprived sexually, are deprived from
procedure loosely analogous to a human adoption study, or exploration, and from physical exercise (among other
a randomized clinical trial, or school intervention. Two of things). These ‘artificial’ experiences might reasonably be
the siblings in a litter of four were removed from their expected to harm cognitive performance. This leads to the
usual environment and experienced a new, more complex question: which set of experiences matter more, the experi-
environment. In contrast with human adoption studies, ences that help, or the experiences that harm? We cannot

here we had direct control of the environment into which answer this question with our current analysis. Nonetheless,
