— Data by NOAA from Mould Bay, Canada (MBC) provide ENSO-related features from ALT remarkably closely. In the
very similar signals to ALT as well and extend its cover- early 1970s, the temporal course inferred from LJO is similar
age further back in time (magenta). to that from STP, except for STP’s larger amplitude. There is a

— The earliest high northern measurements were done period of low variability in the late 1970s and early 1980s, not
after July 1961 by Kelley [23] and SIO at Point Barrow, inferred by the other stations, which we cannot presently =.
Alaska (BRW), though the measurements have a gap in explain. Nevertheless, we take the existing similarities as an “2
1964 (like SPO) and stopped after 7 years, to be contin- indication that LJO and the ‘northern record’ share at least ‘©
ued from 1971 by SIO. The signal from BRW (blue) is part of the signal and therefore complement each other — =
similar in many temporal features to that from ALT, during their gaps in the earliest decade. =
though it causes smaller flux differences for several of The earliest LJO data create flux differences larger than S
ALT’s peaks in the 2000s. Interestingly, a record of in situ any of the other stations in figure 9. The shift in the land -
measurements by NOAA at BRW (not shown) leads to total in 1957 may be related to the fact that MLO data 2
flux differences more similar to ALT. This may be related only start in 1958, such that the two-stations s57 inversion S
to the air sampling at 16m height for the NOAA in situ is badly constrained in 1957 and therefore easily changed w
record but only 2m for the SIO flask record, which may by the additional station. We assume that LJO can take
bias the CO, values low in late summer when the tundra MLO’s role as a Northern Hemispheric station in the station 5S
vegetation around BRW is active [24]. set s57X in 1957, and that we therefore can use the results S

— In order to partially fill the long gap of BRW between right from 1957. There is a second peculiar feature from = ©
1967 and 1974, we further added Ocean Station P (STP, LJO in 1959-1960, with more negative fluxes in the northern
50° N). It is located more away from the other stations, extratropics and correspondingly larger fluxes in the tropics,
all in Alaska, but is the closest one available at that even though there is no El Nino event. We do not yet have
time. STP causes somewhat larger deviations than the an explanation and assume this feature to be an artefact.
other records (orange), but we nevertheless use it as a Doubts also come from the fact that the s57 standard inver-