ness are correlated, the priors will change so that stiff objects tations yields conscious representations through winner-takes-
are seen as more luminant. And, this prediction is born out. all processes of elimination or merging. The competition
Further, the ‘light comes from overhead’ prior can be changed framework does not require any particular task or cognitive
by experience. Overall, he says, a realist interpretation yields categorization and in that respect is better than the sampling
explanatory generalizations that would be missed on an instru- framework. The process can be considered Bayesian but
mentalist interpretation. The principle is that the best only on an instrumentalist interpretation pitched at Marr’s
explanation of successful prediction is that the entities referred computational level rather than the algorithmic level.
to in the theories that generate the prediction really exist and to Perhaps, the strongest challenge to my account is Bayesian
a first approximation really have the properties ascribed to sampling accounts of competition, especially the use of
them in the theory [68]. The specific application here is that sampling models to predict some of the details of binocular riv-
our ability to predict how priors will change supports the alry [45,46]. However, (i) the conflict between different
hypothesis that priors are really represented in perception. Bayesian models (noise versus predictions as the driving
I find this argument unconvincing because whatever it is factor), (ii) the fact that probabilistic transitions in rivalry do
about the computations of a system that simulates the effect of not require probabilistic representations, (iii) the point made
represented priors (for example, the proposal by Sanborn & in connection with pea plants, and (iv) the strong consider-
Chater) might also be able to simulate the effect of change ations in favour of the computational rather than algorithmic
of priors. Without a comparison of different mechanisms level in Bayesian explanations counter the challenge.
that can accomplish the same goal, the argument for realism To head off one misinterpretation, I am not suggesting
is weak. that there is a single stage of processing (a ‘Cartesian theatre’
Further, perception is an inherently noisy process in part [72]) where competition is resolved. The competition at any
because the neural processing is characterized by random stage of the visual hierarchy may perhaps be resolved at
fluctuations. The representations must be regarded as approxi- the same stage or at a higher stage, but that does not entail

mate. But what is the difference between approximate that there is a single stage at which everything is resolved.
