to indicate inputs that can be treated as noise [42], and one formulation, overflow and the rejection of the access
the redeployment of attentional resources that selectively requirement require only that, on some occasion, more is in
protect representations from degradation and interference fact consciously seen than is accessed, whatever the capacities.
[43]. Performance limits may thus be explained without Limited capacity comes into the arguments regarding access,
hypothesizing a capacity limit—a limit to the number of richness and overflow only as setting an upper bound on
items working memory can represent. (Indeed, even if one what is encoded into working memory. Abandoning the
adds a capacity limit to such models [44], their other resources assumption of limited capacity removes the upper bound
for explaining performance continue to provide the basis for and thus undermines arguments that depend on it. But it
challenging overflow arguments, so long as the capacity is does not tell us how many items are in fact encoded in any
sufficiently high.) store. Unlimited-capacity working memory is in itself neutral

The study of working memory continues to evolve (see on questions of access, richness and overflow. Analogous
[45,46] for recent defences of discrete slot models). But suppose remarks hold for sensory memory’s capacity and what in fact
some such alternative to slot models pans out, so that the over- gets encoded there on any particular occasion.
flow argument is undermined, not just challenged. We now Consider Sperling’s [6] results. Briefly presented with a

discuss how these models dissociate the richness and access 3x4 array of alphanumeric characters, participants, on


average, correctly recall about four to five. But post-cueing a
row within 300 ms of stimulus offset enables participants to
correctly recall all, or almost all, the characters in that row. To
proponents of overflow, this—along with participants’ reports
of having seen all of the characters, including those they do not
correctly report (but see also [51])—suggests that participants