that Shea mentions as possible differential markers of consciousness. And once this is appreciated, it becomes
phenomenal consciousness will count as such on a ‘subjec- clear that a failure to discover a mechanism of access would
tive’ approach but not on an ‘objective’ approach (see, for not falsify the access hypothesis. An alternative possibility
example, [86] on insensitivity to the automatic stem com- is simply that neither consciousness nor access have a corre-
pletion effect, and [87] on trace conditioning). Given this, it sponding unified, subpersonal mechanism. Furthermore,
is unclear whether all parties can even agree how to take once we acknowledge the possibility that phenomenal con-
the first step within Shea’s framework. sciousness might fail to correspond to a single, unified
Second, a key background assumption of Shea’s approach subpersonal mechanism, we must acknowledge that discov-
is that cognitive access corresponds to ‘an information- ery of only a single kind associated with access fails to
processing mechanism ... for making information directly support the access hypothesis. For that discovery is quite con-
available for use in directing a wide range of potential beha- sistent with access corresponding to a single, unified
viours’ [3, pp. 312-313]. Shea takes the postulation of such a mechanism but not phenomenal consciousness.
mechanism to be ‘plausible’ (p. 314), associating it with Finally, and most importantly, suppose that we do in fact
Dehaene and Naccache’s global neuronal workspace. How- discover two closely connected clusters or kinds. Call these
ever, he suggests: ‘The simplest way in which it could turn K, and Kz (figure 1a).
out that there is phenomenality without access . .. is if we dis- In this scenario, Shea suggests that we would have ‘reason’
cover that there is no [such] information processing property’ [3, p. 337] to suppose K = cognitive access and K,; = phenom-
(p. 314). We should undoubtedly be live to the possibility enal consciousness (figure 1b). This would contradict the
that there is no unified mechanism that underlies cognitive access hypothesis because the merely causal connection
access. Dennett [88, p. 221] talks of the global availability of between kinds could in principle be broken, leading to the

information as ‘fame in the brain’. Since plainly societal instantiation of consciousness (K;) in the absence of access (K2).


However, recall that current workspace models postulate of representation but dispute whether the first category is