different kind of attempt to find such support for OH, which neutral between the CH and OH. To see this, distinguish two ©
focuses on the character of representations in fragile VSTM forms of unity in consciousness [38]. Perceptual grouping is =
and, in particular, on evidence that they are governed by one, distinctively perceptual, form of unity: a group of items = &
principles of perceptual grouping. is represented as a unified or integrated scene; for example, =
In a Kanizsa figure, shapes are arranged such that the contours formed by the edges of several items are visible. CH &
visual system interprets a group of them as including an illu- is sometimes motivated by the claim that a distinct, global
sory contour [35]. For example, in figure 2a, a black triangle is form of unity is a mark of consciousness: information of
apparent among or in front of the white shapes. In virtue of which one is conscious is unified, in the sense that all the
this effect, it is sometimes easier to remember the orientations information of which one is conscious at a time can be exploited
of shapes that form a Kanizsa figure than to remember the together [2,3]. As these are distinct forms of unity, the claim
orientations of shapes that do not (figure 2b). that global unity is a mark of consciousness incurs no com-
Vandenbroucke et al. [18] used a Kanizsa figure as each mitment to the claim that perceptual unity is a mark of
item in the arrays of the Amsterdam paradigm. Performance consciousness. In fact, to make assumption (ii) is already to
was better with Kanizsa figures than with controls. Moreover, assume, against CH, that what makes the difference between
when the asynchrony between the first array and the retro- consciousness and non-conscious information processing is
cue was more than 1s, the advantage of Kanizsa figures perceptual, rather than the general-purpose mechanisms of
over controls was greater with a retro-cue than with a post- cognitive access.
cue. This suggests that Kanizsa grouping is produced in Vandenbroucke et al. qualify their interpretation in a way
fragile VSTM rather than working memory. that sets out the methodology of Lamme’s group:

Vandenbroucke et al. claim that their findings ‘suggest Obviously, to warrant the conclusion that sensory memory holds
that the representations underlying sensory memory are items in a fully perceptual or even conscious status would require
phenomenological’, i.e. conscious, independently of cognitive more evidence. Many dimensions of perceptual quality would
access. To assess this, consider two different assumptions: have to be compared between sensory memory and unequivo-
cally conscious representations, either psychophysically or