of leaks requiring further investments and enlargements [26]. ity [73,74]. After several decades of efforts and the approval of
Between 2008 and 2011, the Catalan government invested strict regulations, membrane technology has been adopted at
around 200€ million to alleviate the impacts of potash water purification plants. This technology, more typically
residues—including 62 € million for the brine sewer improve- applied to desalination, was adopted in order to ensure the
ment and other investments to cover and restore mine tailings proper purification of Llobregat waters and avoid threats to
[63]. These public investments raised criticisms of concealed health [37,75]. This improvement, however, has been carried
public support to the mining company from several fronts out at the expense of public investments, raising concerns
and originated new court cases based on a possible breach of about the transference of private costs to the public sphere.
the ‘Polluter Pays’ principle (EU Directive 2004/35/EC) [64]. Again, the diverse sources of pollution of the Llobregat,
When facing the inquiries of the European Commission, the together with the natural salinity of the river waters, contribu-
Spanish State resorted again to the argument about the uncer- ted to downplaying the responsibility of specific actors for the
tain distribution of natural and anthropogenic salinization [47], presence of high concentrations of bromide in the river waters,
despite the fact that in recent years analyses using isotope tra- thus naturalizing the presence of THMs in the region’s waters.

cers have been able to distinguish the sources of river
salinization [65]. Although several of these legal cases remain
open, in early 2018, the European Commission ruled that the

Spanish State illegally provided financial assistance to cover 4. Conclusion

the mine tailing of Vilafruns [66]. In accordance with the ‘Pol- In the Llobregat, natural salinity and the diversity of sources
luter Pays’ principle, these costs should have been paid by the contributing to river salinization has been used since the
current mining company [66]. 1920s to downplay human-induced salinization caused by

potash mining. Despite its natural characteristics—a Mediter-