subsequently react to a novel person. Each set was composed
of eight informants. In particular, the first set was formed by
eight helpers, the second by six helpers and two trickers
and so on until the last set was made up of eight trickers.
For each set of informants familiarized, 100 episodic belief
networks were generated and their trust factors T were
computed using equation (3.7) and plotted on a histogram.
After each set was processed, the memory of the robot was
reset so that the effects of each group of informants could
be analysed individually.

with mature ToM distinguished between helpers and trickers, (b) Episodic memory
thus confirming the fact that children’s reasoning about whom Given the non-deterministic nature of the algorithm used to
to trust is directly correlated with their understanding of generate episodic belief networks, a more statistical method
mental life. Our research is coherent with these results: when of evaluation is needed to report the results of this module.
the robot is provided with a mature ToM model, it is able to The histograms of the trust factors T obtained with the pro-
correctly recognize realiable sources from unrealiable ones, cedure described in §4c can be interpreted as the different
accepting suggestion from the former whilst rejecting it from characters that emerge in the robot, which means the tendency
the latter. By contrast, if the agent is operated with an immature it has to trust or distrust a novel informant based on the
ToM model, it will fail in the evaluation. To understand why interactions it has been faced with in the past. So, as shown
this happens, we will examine the posterior distributions in in figure 8, an agent who is used to be tricked most of the
each node of a BN after the inference that takes place in the time will tend to distrust somebody it meets for the first time,
decision making and belief estimation phases. whereas a robot that has been treated kindly will learn to
Table 1 shows the results obtained from the interaction of trust people and tend to consider them trustworthy until pre-
a helper and a tricker with two agents with, respectively, a sented with contrary evidence. This behaviour mimics