
reliably and reproducibly improved robot-related evaluations. Additionally, the amount of details implemented in

The present study goes beyond these results by providing evi- our scenarios may represent a critical issue. This is because
dence for the need to specifically tailor the IC situation to one might argue that the scenario low in similarity included
the given context of the HRI. Further research should explore fewer details. This, in turn, might have decreased the level of
the degree of similarity necessary to evoke effects on behaviour elaboration, thereby biasing the results. However, as previously
during HRI and HRI perception. mentioned, the results in [20] have shown that the amount of
With regards to determining the required minimal simi- detail in the scenarios did not have an impact on the experi-
larity between imagined and actual contact, we suggest mental outcomes. Additionally, in the present research, we
several possibilities. On the one hand, it could be possible had assessed vividness and clarity of the imagination, which
that an IC scenario has to exactly mirror the subsequent task should be affected by a different amount of elaboration of the
to evoke the positive effects we found. On the other hand, it imagination task. In fact, imagination quality turned out a sig-
might be sufficient to only mirror the context of the HRI (e.g. nificant covariate and we controlled for it in the analysis of © =
the environment being a school), without the need for exactly covariance. The effects of similarity on number of social beha~ = >
mirroring the subsequent HRI. If this applies, one general, viours as well as on the perceived quality of the interaction = __
rather unspecific scenario for robots in a school setting would were also statistically significant in the ANCOVA. =
be sufficient to improve HRI in this context without the neces- Also, statistically significant effects were obtained only for = 5!
sity to tailor IC scenarios for every possible HRI task that could two of the behavioural measures that we had implemented in >
occur within the school context. For example, such a more uni- our design—social behaviour, in particular. Social behaviour =
versal scenario could read: ‘Imagine there was a robot to assist was operationalized as nonverbal communication behaviour = &
you while you are at school. We are interested in how the robot like nodding and frowning. At the same time, however, the iat
could help and support you. Imagine for example, that the IC task did not change the amount of verbal utterances
robot helps and supports you with your tasks, that you talk towards the robot, or the amount of eye contact, for example. — ~~
to each other etc.’. The idea of having one scenario for several There are several potential reasons for this outcome. One 33