NAO helps and supports you with tasks, that you talk to each 2st row
other etc.’

Previous research by Wullenkord and Eyssel [20] has shown ‘
that the amount of detail in an imagination scenario did not influ- 3rd row Ss
ence the effects of IC on robot attitudes. In their study, the authors 5
used a restaurant scenario that was described either with a low =
versus high amount of detail. In the ‘high detail condition’, the 4th row a
interaction with the robot was described meticulously, including
the course of the interaction from start to finish, what was dis- =
cussed during interaction, and a description of the robot's Figure 1. Work space of the memory game task. x
behaviour. In the ‘low detail condition’, the interaction was 5
described in general terms, referring to the fact that the participant =
and the robot would engage in a short and pleasant interaction. As experimenter chose robot behaviour that was suitable for the io
in the present study, the amount of details presented was vastly given situation. The behaviour to choose from included verbal Rg
different, and the scenarios used by [20] were pretested extensively explanations about the memory game itself, instructions regard- 3
to make sure that participants indeed experienced a different ing which card to uncover next, the robots’ reactions upon >
amount of detail in the different conditions. Accordingly, even winning or losing a round, and inquiries as to whether partici- s
though the scenario in the low similarity condition in the present pants wanted to play another round. To make sure that =
study appeared less detailed compared to the scenario in the unexpected participant behaviour (e.g. asking questions that Ss
high similarity condition, the difference in amount of details are beyond NAOs response options) would not require the ter- “
should not influence the results regarding HRI, but the results mination of the experimental session, ‘emergency behaviours’
should be because of the differences in similarity. Participants were included in NAO’s response repertoire. For example,
were instructed to imagine the task for 90s with their eyes NAO would say that it did not understand the participant
closed as closing the eyes during imagination enhances the IC and wanted to continue playing, or that it did not understand