This is mainly owing to the fact that most known examples surroundings, they are unable to survive in the wild [86,87]
of interspecific interactions that limit and shape movement and with little evidence of any immigration, they appear to
are centred on predator—prey interactions. However, other be isolated from the fox populations in the surrounding matrix.
processes of interspecific avoidance inductions exist. One of A similar example comes from Switzerland, where allelic
these processes is interference competition. We know that diversity and genetic differentiation were quantified between
many species alter their movement and habitat choice beha- urban and rural populations of red foxes, Vulpes vulpes,
viours in order to avoid superior competitors. For instance, around Zurich [88]. The researchers found that the urban
the presence of wolves limits the distribution and abundance fox populations, which at the time of the test were approxi-
of coyotes by altering the coyotes’ dispersal rates [72], chee- mately 15 years old, were differentiated genetically from
tahs actively move away from areas inhabited by lions and nearby rural populations. The observed differentiation
hyenas [73], and arctic foxes avoid areas with red foxes, could not be explained by the geographical arrangement of
thus being excluded from breeding in low altitude habitats the populations because genetic differentiation between two
[74]. Thus, interference competition can lead to population rural populations was much lower despite the fact that the
fragmentation through the same mechanism as predation geographical distance was much higher between them.
risk. Another interspecific process that has been getting Genetic differentiation among close populations has been
increased scientific attention recently is parasite avoidance documented in other species as well. For instance, the
behaviour that may be similar in many respects to Nubian ibex, Capra nubiana, is a social desert ungulate that
anti-predatory behaviour. According to recent studies, the is listed as Vulnerable by the International Union for Conser-
“landscape of disgust’, which represents animals’ perceived vation of Nature, and is typically found on or nearby cliffs in
infection threats, may hinder and shape the movement of the vicinity of desert oases. Ibex populations in the vicinity of
individuals, the same way the landscape of fear does [75,76]. two human settlements in the Negev desert in Israel (the vil-

lage of Midreshet Ben-Gurion and the town of Mitzpe
Ramon) have been shown to exhibit high tolerance towards
