the Alaskan groups lack males. Because female-only groups decreased. Critically, encounter rates of nine edible mammals
are more likely to flee in simulated interactions with brown rose every year after the arrival of researchers in this remote
bears Ursus arctos, the probability of predatory pursuit is area with minimal governmental surveillance [83].
likely to increase in the presence of hunting and this may Sometimes behavioural ecologists working in the field
result in poorer juvenile survival [69]. Protected areas have conduct conservation projects at their field site while separ-
important roles in providing behavioural baselines. ately carrying out basic research. For example, Caro

In long-lived species, certain older individuals have great documented biodiversity under different forms of land use
knowledge so that removal of these individuals by hunting or and monitored large mammal population changes over
live-capture can have disproportionately negative effects on time in Katavi National Park at the same time as trying to dis-
the groups [75]. For example, older African elephant cover why zebra species have stripes. To a conservation
Loxodonta africana matriachs are better able to discriminate manager wanting advice in making protected area decisions,
calls of close and distant associates [76] and are more adept the fact that a researcher is carrying out two biological
at discriminating roars of dangerous male lions from less projects may be of little consequence.
troublesome female lions [77], even if network analysis ‘Volunteer’ researchers now often pay considerable sums
suggests that the loss of knowledge is partly compensated of money to work for short periods on ecological or behav-
for by daughters in the wake of poaching [78]. ioural research projects in protected areas, usually to

In marine protected areas where fishing offtake is per- organizations that arrange their logistics. Arrangements
mitted, knowledge of fish breeding systems can set more could be made for some of that money to be used to help
appropriate fishing rules. For example, in species with size- fund the upkeep of reserve facilities [84]. Behavioural ecolo-
dependent hermaphroditism, offtake of larger individuals gists are well placed to catalyse research and conservation
has differential effects on population. For instance in gag funding in this way.
Mycteroperca microlepis, a hermaphroditic grouper, high fish- Seminars and workshops given in villages adjacent to
ing mortality results in highly skewed female sex ratios reserves can help to change local opinion about natural resources