assessed in terms of differential temporal patterns. Type | use indicates a ment ecology, as it provides a critical lens by which to
consistently used location, such as a den site or water point in an arid understand behaviour, interpret the intensity of use metrics
environment (blue). Type Il use indicates a location where use saturates, and evaluate locations on the landscape behaviourally [1].
such as at point resources that experience denudation with increased use Broadly, functional identification of movement typically
(yellow). Type Ill use indicates temporally sporadic use, such as seasonal focuses on mechanic definition (i.e. properties or type) or
resources that are available intermittently and are denuded quickly phenomenological characterization (ie. underlying motiv-
(green). (b) Plotting different functional use types on the landscape can elu- ation) of a movement segment. In the former, the
cidate differences in the intensity of use patterns. (c) Contrasting with raw movement path or locational use can be discretized into
intensity of use data (darker indicates more use) can discern not only how movement states (e.g. encamped [49]), while in the latter
much an area is used, but also the structure in temporal use patterns. different behavioural phenomenon, often identified indepen-
dently, can be used to stratify the movement path (e.g.
periods of rest [50]; figure 3). Complicating such functional
management [43], which has provided new insights to herbi- definition is the fact that characteristic movement properties
vore ecology, migratory behaviours and _ interspecific can reflect multiple behavioural phenomena (i.e. encamped
interactions [42,44]. Building on this, recursion and directed movement state may reflect resting, nesting or intensive
movement are recognized as potentially key behaviours to foraging).
facilitate the study of cognitive decision processes and spatial Common approaches to discern the function of move-
memory [45,46]. Longer-term repeated-use patterns, such as ments using the mechanics of a path define structural
inter-annual [47] or inter-generational [48] migratory pat- transition points (i.e. changes in movement properties) that
terns, offer additional avenues to investigate responses to serve to categorize movement types/states from which its
slower landscape dynamics (e.g. phenological shifts and function can be discerned. The definition of movement prop-
land-use change). Contemporary work focused on refined erties along the path can be used for discretization, whereby
definitions of spatial and temporal patterns of use can pro- modelling approaches are used to categorize observations
vide new insights into the behaviours underlying the (e.g. locations) into putative states (figure 3a). This approach
movement process. provides insights into latent processes and has become more