gestation lactation interbirth maturity longevity 0 5 10 15 20 25
female life-history processes female body length (m)

Figure 2. Life-history processes and the central role of females as mothers in cetacean societies. (a) Duration of key life-history processes of female toothed whales
(Odontoceti) and baleen whales (Mysticeti). Split violin plots indicate the probability distributions of log-transformed length of gestation and lactation (mean), inter-
birth interval (mode), maturity (mean age at first birth) and longevity (maximum lifespan) across 13 Mysticeti species (red) and 43 Odontoceti species (blue).
Dashed lines within violins indicate mean values. (b) Speed of female life-history processes relative to body length between toothed and baleen whales. Age
at sexual maturity correlates highly with all other life-history traits and thus is used here as a summary measure of the other life-history processes. Shaded circles
Tepresent species of Odontoceti (red) and Mysticeti (blue) and solid icons indicate the mean values for each taxonomic family for which data were available. Icon
sizes are suggestive of the average body length. Data and estimation methods in [11]. (Online version in colour.)

of cetaceans, regardless of association strength or related- abundance of resources—even in a shallow water coastal
ness). But this also reflects the fact that in many species, we dolphin population, where resource defence might be
observe relationship patterns that are unique and do not more plausible, 32 years of study have yielded just one
readily extend across multiple species or even populations. observation of prey stealing (J. Mann 2017, personal obser-
For example, killer whale pods can be extremely stable in vation) and females are completely tolerant of others
some populations, but less so in others [16], while there is evi- closely inspecting their prey catches [21]. Thus, competition
dence of membership change in sperm whale units [17]. between females seems to be largely indirect.

Here, we use terms that reflect the original literature and
try where possible to bring through the original definitions
of those terms in order that readers can appreciate the under-

lying diversity. The diversity is unified, however, by the idea 3. Maternal ki nship in baleen whales
