where each additional offspring may contribute to strengthen

4. Discussion the social status of a matriline—and where infanticide may
Our findings establish that female infanticide is widespread consequently weaken competing matrilines on the long
across mammals and our comparative analyses support the term. Given that field reports appear to include cases where
idea that this behaviour is adaptive, even when the target the victim and the killer might have been related, future
may be related. Infanticide is more likely to occur in species studies could usefully document the kinship ties between
in which multiple adult females live or breed together than killers and victims to confirm or refute this scenario.
where females breed solitarily, and infanticide appears Anecdotal reports of female pinnipeds killing orphans as
most frequent in species where females only associate tem- they attempted to suckle from them inspired the hypothesis
porarily to breed. Because infanticidal behaviour is that females compete over milk in species where they only
relatively rare and may be difficult to detect, this association associate to breed [18]. While our comparative analyses did
may reflect the fact that opportunities to commit and to not reveal any difference in the energy content of milk of
observe infanticides may be greater where females live or associated breeders in which infanticide is present versus
breed together. Within each type of social organization, we absent, associated breeders nevertheless comprise the species
do however find that females, like males, appear to commit with the highest energy content of milk and the fastest
infanticide when the presence of the victim might otherwise growth rates, and we further found that offspring are larger
limit their own reproductive success. While infanticide by at birth and weaned at an earlier age in associated breeders
males has evolved primarily in response to mate competition with infanticide compared to those without it. The lack of
across mammals [14,15], the evolutionary determinants of support for the milk competition hypothesis in our analyses
infanticide by females are apparently more complex, as may be explained by a noisy dataset, where the absence of
females may compete over multiple resources. infanticide in some species may be owing to the fact that it
Several lines of evidence indicate that female infanticide is goes undetected if it is hard to observe, or to the evolution
adaptive, with females killing conspecific offspring in of counter-adaptations that protect offspring against infanti-
response to competition over resources that are critical for cide. Alternatively, milk is not the only resource over which