choice emphasizes indicators of genetic quality over
willingness and ability to provision
6. kinsmen’s contributions to households are variable and
substitutable by kinswomen or other exchanges such as
hired labour
7. diminished PC and shallow RS/resource slope for men
favour limited strategies that are decoupled from resources
for men
8. male control over resources is associated with investment in
biological offspring
often steeper for males (figure 1a [99]). Although each unit of to the evolution of sex-biased kinship, by focusing on vertical
investment yields higher marginal inclusive fitness returns transmission between parents and their children, the MDBI
via male offspring under this scenario [100], parents who hypothesis, in fact, fails to solve the most vexing problem
are of low socio-economic status and whose sons are likely in the evolution of matrilineal kinship—i.e. avuncular invest-
to fail to reproduce gain absolutely more from investing in ment in sororal nieces and nephews [49]. More recent
daughters (e.g. [99], see also [101]). Many forms of wealth hypotheses have modelled the ‘father versus uncle’ problem
are thought to result in steeper fitness gains through males directly, incorporating paternity certainty, the probability
[102]—both livestock and productive land are usually more that two siblings share the same father [79], the effects of
beneficial to males than females, for example, because subsistence on inheritance, and additional considerations
males are able to use such resources to attract additional such as the effects of polygyny and polyandry [8] and the
mates [49,63,88]. However, some resources may not be par- number of communally breeding sisters in a man’s natal
ticularly conducive to steep gains in reproductive success in household [37], to describe additional benefits that males
either sex; in which case, the hypothesis predicts that pater- might accrue via investments directed towards natal kin.
nity uncertainty in sons’ offspring renders it beneficial to Theoretical solutions to the puzzle that do not invoke pater-
invest in daughters (figure 1b). nity certainty focus on how the functional form (diminishing