
Figure 1. Investments in daughters versus sons. (a) Trivers—Willard. The fitness ceiling is lower for females than for males. According to the Trivers— Willard
hypothesis, under certain circumstances, this leads to steeper marginal gains to fitness from resources to males. In such cases, poorly resourced parents may benefit
from investing in daughters whereas richly resourced parents may benefit from investing in sons (redrawn from Cronk [99]). (b) Matriliny-as-daughter-biased invest-
ment (MDBI). The MDBI hypothesis incorporates the differential effects of resources on male and female fitness shown in (a) and the effect of paternity certainty to
predict when parents will invest in daughters (matriliny) versus sons (patriliny). The shaded area shows that parents will invest in daughters whenever the
additional benefit of investing in sons (Bs/Bd) does not compensate for risk of non-paternity in sons’ offspring (redrawn from Mattison [49] based on Holden
et al. [63]). (Online version in colour.)

We offer a fourth ‘solution’ (§4) that proposes that, at least in the hands of men, not women, as are most of the important
in some instances, the matrilineal puzzle as implied by political offices’ [3, p. 246]. Flinn [13] documented a number
ethnographic reports of normative behaviours does not, in of compatible examples, including the mother’s brother
fact, exist, and that men’s investments in children follow acting as head of household among the Djuka (citing Kahn
straightforward evolutionary predictions based on parental [105]), wealth and social position being inherited from
investment and cooperative breeding theories. maternal uncle to nephew among the Trobrianders (citing

Malinowski [106]), and the mother’s brother holding the
greatest obligation to provide support and assistance to

3. Problematic assumptions of the matrilineal children among the Plateau Tonga (citing Colson [107]).
Many social scientists have questioned the premise of uni-
puzzle versal male authority and have emphasized the authority
The matrilineal puzzle relies on two assumptions that, if nul- wielded by women in the domestic sphere (e.g. [108-113]).
lified, invalidate the basis of the puzzle: first, that men are in Moreover, even in extended family avunculate households,
positions of authority over women; and second, that men are stated norms stipulate that only one brother of the sibling