variable epigenetic states and ‘metastable epialleles’ are environmental insults that have been shown to induce pro-
mammalian alleles at which variable expression associates grammed effects include ‘endocrine disruptors’—chemicals
with epigenetic differences. Thus, the stochastic establish- that can interfere with endocrine systems—and a high-
ment of DNA methylation at metastable epialleles during profile series of studies using the fungicide vinclozolin has
early development can lead to differences in epigenetic signa- reported inter- and transgenerational effects on a number of
tures between individuals. Metastable epialleles have been health parameters in rats, in association with alterations in
described in mice, notably the murine agouti viable yellow DNA methylation in the sperm of multiple generations (for
(A) gene. The wild-type agouti gene encodes a molecule pro- example [11,19,52]). Whether this phenomenon is wide-
ducing either black eumelanins (a) or yellow phaeomelanin spread is unclear, indeed a recent detailed study in mice
(A). Transient A expression during a specific stage of hair showed negligible effects of vinclozolin exposure on de novo
growth results in a sub-apical yellow band, resulting in the DNA methylation and only subtle transcriptional changes
brown (agouti) coat colour of wild-type mice. The insertion in F1 prospermatogonia, which were not seen in a second gen-
of an IAP into the agouti gene produced the A” metastable eration [53]. Furthermore, the fact that the transgenerational
epiallele, and the resulting ectopic gene expression results effects of vinclozolin differ between inbred and outbred strains
in obesity, yellow fur colour and the development of of rats suggests that genetic, rather than epigenetic variation
tumours. Methylation of the 5’ long-terminal repeat (LTR) could be responsible [54]. In a well-characterized rat model,
of the A”’ IAP correlates with gene transcription and the sto- we have shown that in utero glucocorticoid overexposure
chastic establishment of DNA methylation at the LTR during associates with low birth weight and glucose intolerance in
development leads to a variable phenotype even among the exposed F1 offspring in association with intergenerational
isogenic littermates. Importantly, studies showed that the effects—the phenotype is transmissible to the F2 generation
availability of methyl donors in the maternal diet during ges- through both maternal and paternal lines [9,10,16]. We
tation can impact on the phenotype of the offspring [23], found altered gene expression and DNA methylation at
supporting the concept that DNA methylation at metastable candidate imprinted genes in liver from F1 and F2 offspring
epialleles is labile and can be influenced by the environment of glucocorticoid-treated females; however, notably, the
at a critical stage of development. In the Axi’ mouse, an direction of the changes in gene expression and the location