bacteria like Lactococcus lactis [106] and Bacteroides thetaiotao- CRISPRi and CRISPRa have also been adapted to
micron, where it was used to alter the bacterial metabolic eukaryotic cells and—of particular relevance to this review— —__
capacity and its resistance to antimicrobial peptides [107]. to Saccharomyces cerevisiae [121], where it could help inthe devel- =:
In the latter work, the CRISPRi repression was also shown opment of probiotic yeast. Note that while dCas9 itself can 5!
to be functional in the mouse gut. efficiently block transcription in bacteria, CRISPRi in eukaryotic = >
It is also possible to repurpose dCas9 as a transcriptional cells requires the fusion of dCas9 to effector domains. =
activator, in a strategy also known as CRISPRa. In a first g
proof of concept, dCas9 was fused to the omega subunit of =
the RNA polymerase, yielding moderate activation [100]. In ~
a recent study, activator deonains were recruited to the 7. Challenges and future prospects “
dCas9 ribonucleic complex using a more elaborate strategy. Over the past few years, we have seen the application of 3
Activator domains were fused to the MS2 coat protein, CRISPR tools to organisms as diverse as Firmicutes, Proteo- S
which binds to a MS2 hairpin itself fused to the guide RNA bacteria, yeasts and human cells. The fact that the Cas9
[108]. Several candidate activators could easily be tested in protein from S. pyogenes worked easily in so many different
this manner and strong activation was obtained with SoxS, cellular backgrounds was surprising to many. This bodes
which could further be optimized to yield up to a 50-fold well for the future applications of CRISPR technologies to
increase in the expression of a target reporter gene. The the extremely diverse set of organisms that compose our
authors further showed how this design could be used to microbiome, even though Cas9 from different origins, or
activate silent metabolic pathways. Note however that this even other Cas proteins, might be better suited than others
strategy is very sensitive to the distance between the target to specific organisms.
and the promoter. Binding needs to occur within a narrow While CRISPR-Cas systems seem easily portable between
window roughly 60-90 bases upstream of the transcription species, one key consideration is that the outcome of DNA clea-
start site. When no PAM is available in the desired range, it vage by Cas nucleases can be very different depending on the
might not be possible to use this tool without further efforts type and efficiency of the DNA repair pathways present in
to modify PAM specificity [109]. different organisms. As an example, Cas9 cleavage in the