In this section, we discussed two severe weaknesses of computationally intractable and, in situations in which compu-
the Savage framework. Firstly, we used tools from compu- tational complexity is high, ineffective in representing
tational complexity theory to show that the Savage uncertainty. We also discussed new empirical evidence sup-
framework is computationally intractable, rendering its core porting our claims, casting further doubt on the plausibility
axioms implausible. Secondly, we showed that the Savage of the framework’s axioms.
framework is ineffective in representing decision tasks with The empirical evidence, in particular, calls for new theories
high degrees of computational complexity. of decision-making that are plausible from a computational as
To address the first of the above issues, future models of well as biological perspective. This means that computational
decision-making should take into account the computational resource requirements implied by such theories need to be
complexity of decision tasks. For such models to be plausible, within the resources available to decision-makers. Com-
the computational requirements necessary to solve a particular putational complexity theory provides a candidate framework
decision task should not exceed the decision-maker’s compu- for quantifying computational resource requirements. The
tational capacities. Future work will need to (i) characterize endeavour will be complicated by the fact that allocation of
the computational resource requirements of decision tasks cognitive resources in the brain is likely dynamic, dependent
encountered in ecologically relevant settings and (ii) character- on motivation, physiological state and other context-dependent
ize the computational resources available to decision-makers in factors.
such settings [30,34,64]. Some immediate questions arise for the future study of
The latter is complicated by the fact that the brain likely decision-making. On the one hand, it will be important to
allocates computational resources dynamically. At this point, characterize the computational complexity of decisions
it is an open question which mechanism the brain uses for encountered in every-day life, that is, the distribution of
the allocation of computational (cognitive) resources, a pro- real-world instances of key computational problems encoun-
blem referred to as cognitive control or meta-decision-making tered in ecologically relevant settings. On the other hand, it
[34,65,66]. Most frameworks of cognitive control are based on should be investigated which strategies people use to make

the concept of optimization: decision-makers optimally complex decisions, how they adapt to varying levels of