PCC are not exclusively or disproportionately more active for system) and the intraparietal sulcus, which might be related
immediate rewards. Instead, these regions are thought to to the episodic memory and future thinking components of
form the core of the brain’s valuation system, a set of brain intertemporal choice. This finding suggests the activity in
regions that track the value of choice options across a variety these specific brain areas would be more consistent with theo-
of decision contexts and reward types—including delayed ries where utility for risk and utility for time are not
and risky rewards [98] (figure 2). equivalent [82,87].

A corollary to the unified system view as it pertains to our In another approach to examining the neural overlap
understanding of the neurobiology of intertemporal choice and between risk and delay, and similarly, to identifying where
the discount rate is that if the same brain system represents their processing might diverge, Luhmann ef al. [97] designed
individual risk preferences (and hence, the curvature of the a risky choice paradigm where the only difference between
utility function) then this prior evidence for discounted subjec- two conditions was the amount of time subjects knew they
tive value representation might in fact be accounted for by the had to wait to receive the outcome of their choice. This allowed
so-called probability discounting, the notion that all preference the authors to examine the neural correlates of expected value
for immediate rewards stems from fear that any delay is itself modulated by delay. Brain regions that emerged as common to
intrinsically risky. As the decision-maker might believe that the immediate and delay conditions included, among others,
the probability of acquiring a given reward decreases as the VMPFC, insula and PCC. Most notably, regions that
delay to its receipt increases, fMRI correlates of discounted sub- emerged as unique to the delay condition included parts of
jective value might reflect the influence of probability and the medial temporal lobe (which, similar to the inferior parietal
subjects’ risk preferences rather than delay per se. To address regions, is implicated in episodic memory) as well as the
this possibility, a handful of fMRI studies have simultaneously DLPFC [97].
examined subjects’ preferences for risk and delay [99,100], the However, while risk and delay were assumed to be inde-
unique contribution of delay to intertemporal choice holding pendent and non-interacting in Luhmann et al. [97], this is
risk constant [97] and the neural correlates of discounted sub- likely not the case given strong theoretical and empirical evi-
jective value adjusted for the curvature of subjects’ utility dence to the contrary. To account directly for this interaction,