A. comosus

A. thaliana
KH
0.06

Figure 5. Phylogenetic relationship of URT1 and HESO1 isoforms among 11 species of Poales. Sequences of HESO1 and URT1 isoforms from 10 Poaceae (Po) and 1
Bromeliaceae (Br) were aligned separately. Full names of species are given in figure 3. The analysis was performed as described for figure 4 except that the trees
were edited with FicTree (v. 1.4.3, http://tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/figtree/). Support values (approximate likelihood-ratio statistical test, aLRT v. 3.0) are shown on
branches. The sequence alignments for HESO1 and URT1 used to build the trees are given in electronic supplementary material, Datasets $4 and $5, respectively.

responsible for the RNA uridylation catalysed by both HESO1 alignments of HESO1 and URT1 sequences, respectively). In
and URT1 in most plant species. Conversely, certain plant fact, two copies of HESO1 were not systematically found
species have dual copies of URT1 and/or HESO1 because of (figure 5). For instance, maize and pineapple (A. comosus) are
either local or whole genome duplication (WGD) events, as for among the Poales species that lack the second HESO1 isoform,
Glycine max (figures 3 and 4) [48]. Four out of five representative noted HESO1B. Usually, HESO1A, which is the isoform
species of Poaceae chosen for our initial analysis shown in detected in all Poales, is constitutively expressed, and at a
figures 3 and 4 also have at least two copies of URT1 and higher level than HESO1B (figure 6). Altogether, these data
HESO1. To obtain a better view of the evolutionary history of suggest that HESOIA could be the orthologue of the eudicot
TUTases in this family that regroups important crops such as HESO1, while HESO1B is either dispensable in some Poales or
maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) or rice (Oryza may have acquired a specialized function or expression pattern
sativa), a more focused phylogenetic analysis of URT1 and in certain Poales species.

HESO1 homologues was performed from 11 species of Poales In contrast to HESO1 isoforms, two copies of URT1 are
(10 Poaceae and the Bromeliaceae Ananas comosus) (figure 5; present in all 11 representative species chosen here and