are results of death able to meet these requirements?


At least two requirements appear to be at play. First, the must be met. For manner of death verbs to overtly name, and 11 |

meaning component must be important and prominent to thus assert, the manner of an event, manner/result complemen-

human interest. Second, the component must satisfy the con- tarity as revised in (60) required us to either background any a
straints of our mental grammars. On the first, additional other prominent meaning component as a presupposition or s
meaning components clearly need to be salient to human abandon the attempt to incorporate it. We can see both of a
thought to be accommodated into a more complex verbal these routes being taken by verbs that name events that often — 2:
concept. If a meaning component is not salient, then it is result in death. As noted in §3, events named by verbs like elec-  S
highly unlikely to become encoded in a verbal concept, trocute, drown, strangle or even hang are, in fact, potentially =
simply again because of the limits on human memory and survivable, thus even for those cases where death does occur, =
attention in place during word learning. Salience is very we do not accommodate a presupposed result of death into “2
vague requirement, but consider another case where a similar their verbal concepts. But for events named by true manner of —
notion appears to be at play, the rather muddled realm of death verbs given in (33), a result of death appears unavoidable." -,
implicit arguments of verbs. Take the verb steal, for example. To meet manner/result complementarity, the result of death = =
Native speakers know that every event of stealing requires a component is accommodated as a presupposition in these =
thief, a victim, and some loot. They also know that events of verbal concepts. Adding the result component in this way -
stealing must take place at a particular time. Speakers are not satisfies the manner/result complementarity constraint. 2
required to explicitly mention all of these arguments. Given Thus it appears that both the formal constraints of our mental S
(64b) to (64d), we can see that speakers can leave the grammars and the functionalist pressures related to broader w
victim, the time or both implicit. However, when left unmen- human interests and concerns conspire to give us the lexicons —
tioned, the status of some arguments seems more salient that we have. Our verbs are required to satisfy certain constraints 5