trait (or set thereof) needs to be a reliable cue for the selective fitness under anoxia. Using experimental evolution, Dey et al.
pressure on this trait. In a variable environment, this [35] showed that when normoxia (i.e. normal levels of
reliability implies that the cue(s) should predict the selective oxygen) and anoxia (less than 1% oxygen) were predictably
environment, i.e. the environmental conditions driving natu- alternating, mothers experiencing normoxia increased glyco-
ral selection on the expressed plastic trait (figure 1 and gen provisioning to their embryos (and vice versa for anoxia),
[11,12,14]), so that the plastic response leads to increased fit- demonstrating the evolution of maternal effects under
ness [10]. Reliable cues do not require that the same predictable variation of the environment. In marine stickle-
environmental variable affects both the expression of a trait backs (Gasterosteus aculeatus), where body size is a key
and selection on this trait: any environmental variable that component of fitness, maternal effects could help adaptation
is correlated with the environment of selection through to increased temperature under climate change, as offspring
space or time can act as a reliable cue for phenotypic plas- from mothers acclimated to 21°C were larger in this warm
ticity (e.g. red/infrared ratio signalling competitor presence environment than conspecifics from mothers acclimated to
[19]). In fact, environmental variables that are most informa- 17°C thanks to different mitochondrial performance [36].
tive about the selective environment at the time of Recently, there has been growing interest in understand-
phenotypic determination may differ from the selective ing theoretically how cue variability and reliability at
environment itself at this time [20]. For instance, rain may different time scales interact to shape plastic responses.
be a better predictor of the peak of food abundance at time Organisms are predicted to integrate various sources of infor-
t+ 7 (where 7 is the lag between phenotypic determination mation, including cues from the current environment (for
and selection on the trait) than is food abundance itself at labile traits that change continuously in life), earlier cues per-
time t. More generally, organisms are expected to respond ceived during development (early-life or carry-over effects)

to the linear combination of environmental variables that and transgenerational cues from the environment to which


parental early focal