
where o, is the variance in relative fitness w, 0; gives the mixed model (GLMM) of absolute fitness will be preferable
covariance between the reaction norm intercept and w, and [95,100]. The resulting covariances returned by the model
Ox~t is the covariance between the reaction norm slope will then be between the trait on the data scale and fitness on
and w. The two covariances oy, and oy~;, can thus be trea- a ‘latent’ (link-function) scale. These estimates need to be trans-
ted as a vector S of two selection differentials. Multivariate formed if data-scale estimates of selection are required [101].

mixed models of this form can be implemented in software However, in the case of a GLMM with a log-link function


(e.g. Poisson, over-dispersed Poisson, or negative binomial annual temperatures upwards and increase the frequency of

distribution), it is possible to exploit the fact that the latent- extreme temperature and weather events.
scale covariance with absolute fitness is equivalent to the Global patterns of advancement in spring events (earlier
data-scale covariance of relative fitness [102]: consequently, onset of reproductive-related traits or behaviours) have been
and conveniently, the covariance components of P;,q on the documented for decades across diverse species and geographi-
latent scale can simply be treated as selection differentials S. cal regions [103,104]. Shifts in phenology owing to plasticity
By extension, estimates of B as indicated above will also may be beneficial for individuals to respond to variation in
provide data-scale selection gradients. their present environment across time, but this plasticity does

The mixed model framework also offers a powerful means not seem to alter fitness in a substantial way that selection
of extension beyond equations (4.1) and (4.2). In an ideal exper- could act on this variation. The lack of substantial evidence
iment or analysis, the range of environments would have at for selection on plasticity in response to thermal environments
least three levels that go beyond historical averages, so that does not necessarily mean that plasticity plays no role in ==
the assumption of linear reaction norms can be directly evolutionary responses to environmental change. +