convergent evolution and to determine if these candidate high altitude can reveal how these populations adapted to =
genes are actually being modified in parallel directions high altitudes over time. By continuing to study the popu- — __
across populations, further exploration of the physiological lations that live and thrive at high altitudes, we gain a = =
and functional changes in high-altitude populations is better understanding of the convergent ways in which species 5!
needed to identify and characterize how genetic variants adapt to new environments. a
are driving this adaptation to high altitude. The study of human and domesticate populations in =
Additionally, there is a bias in identifying genes that are Tibet, the Andes and Ethiopia has enabled us to begin to 8
part of the HIF pathway, which may be over-inflating the understand how species adapt to life at high altitude and iat
importance of hypoxia-associated genes for adaptation to has also provided insight about the nature of convergent
high altitudes. Some studies have specifically examined evolution. High altitude is an excellent natural experiment — ~
hypoxia-associated genes only [38,56], while others identify for studying convergent evolution because it has an ecologi- 3
a number of candidate genes but only focus on those related cal context, and hypoxia affects all species living at high 2
to hypoxia, despite the fact that other biological processes are altitudes. These regions have been populated with many
important in high-altitude adaptation, as shown by the GO different species, including wild animals, domesticates and
analysis. While adaptation to the reduced-oxygen environ- humans, and in some cases (such as in humans and in
ment seems to be important for the majority of high- cattle), we have parallel examples of the same species immi-
altitude populations, an adaptation of the cardiovascular grating to high-altitude environments in different regions of
system to handle the increased heart rate and red blood cell the world. This enables us to capture the breadth of adap-
count and changes to the placenta and other biological pro- tation to a single environment. We have found that in some
cesses involved in pregnancy are also important to ensure cases, convergent evolution occurs in specific genes (such
that the population thrives at higher elevations. Additional as EPAS1), although the specific variants involved in adap-
adaptations would also be needed to cope with the colder tation may differ across populations. Additionally, although
temperatures and increased UV radiation at higher altitudes. some pathways (such as the hypoxia response) seem to be

more commonly involved in adaptation to a common