ancestral population is shown. Each line represents an individual chromosome. (b) The four scenarios considered are depicted with yellow stars representing
mutations at the beneficial locus, and red lines on the phylogenies when selection occurred. The scenarios are: (i) independent mutations, (ii) independent selection
on ancestral standing variation, (iii) introgression, and (iv) selection in the ancestral population. (c) Panels for each of the four scenarios contain a cartoon rep-
resentation of the haplotypic patterns surrounding the beneficial allele (black dot) in the two selected populations after fixation and a gene tree relating the
populations at the beneficial allele. Pink regions in the haplotypes represent new mutations. (d) Within- and between-population conacestry coefficients for
the four scenarios are shown as a function of recombination distance from the beneficial allele. Both gene trees and coancestry coefficients were derived from
simulations briefly outlined in appendix Ab.

the lineages do find a common ancestor faster than on the between the populations. However, we observe a faster
time-scale of typical, neutral lineages. decay in coancestry with increasing recombination distance

The other three scenarios have a key similarity. Now, there between the populations than within a population. This
is some haplotypic similarity in both adapted populations is owing to the fact that while the allele was standing
because the beneficial allele has a single, shared origin. Still, independently in both populations prior to the onset of selec-
there are features that differentiate these scenarios that may tion, recombination broke down the original haplotype on
be useful to distinguish them. In the case that selection was which the selected allele arose. Seeing a strong sweep within
on a variant that was standing in the ancestor of the adapted populations, but only a partially shared haplotype among
populations, there is a region of a shared, core haplotype the populations, is evidence that selection has independently

between populations and, as a result, increased coancestry dragged up the same variant from low frequency. By contrast,


the final two scenarios have higher amounts of sharing both convergent evolution of small body size; [93,94]), popula-

within and between the adapted populations. In the intro- tions may be convergently adapting via very similar shared