ing different topologies (figure 4). While these biases are model comparison is one potential way to determine the opti-
generally quite small, we have only considered ILS among mal locus length for minimizing hemiplasy. In cases like these,  S
three taxa—it is possible that with more taxa, the problem there will be a trade-off between the amount of signal per locus =
becomes worse. Simulations conducted with many more (i.e. how well each estimated gene tree will reflect the true gene =
sampled lineages revealed few errors when concatenating tree) and how many different topologies are included within =
loci [63], though this and similar results (e.g. [64,65]) cast single loci. Unfortunately, such model-based solutions are =
doubt on whether we should be worried about using concate- not currently available for researchers to use. S
nation for inferring the species tree at all. Practically, exon trees may avoid the problems of hemi- = ©
Regardless of the methods used for species tree inference, it plasy due to ILS, but the higher rates of error in inferring =
is clear that gene tree heterogeneity results in hemiplasy. The their topologies will contribute to additional cases of false = 5
ideal scenario for avoiding problems of hemiplasy would be homoplasy. Unfortunately, there does not appear tobeagen- = =
to infer trees from single sites, but this is infeasible when eral method for determining the optimal locus length that ©
there are deeper splits in the tree because in these cases site should be used for gene tree inference. In fact, it may be __
patterns do not necessarily reflect underlying topologies. that it is impossible to completely eliminate hemiplasy from — =:
Another possible solution would be to only use trees from inferences of convergence. One partial solution we have pre- 5!
longer segments with little recombination, such as mtDNA viously proposed [36] is to distinguish between different =
or loci from low-recombination regions. However, this types of convergence, as some patterns cannot be caused by =
approach would both strongly limit the number of genes that gene tree heterogeneity. Briefly, only convergent evolution 8
could be studied and may not completely obviate the problems from the same ancestral state in multiple lineages can be iat
of false convergence. This is because incongruence between mimicked by hemiplasy; convergence arising from different >
trees may be due to either biological or technical reasons. ancestral states is not prone to hemiplasy (see Fig. 2 in
Here, we have only addressed biological issues, but using an [36]). Therefore, even if an incongruent topology is used for 33
incorrect tree because of errors in inference will still result in analysis, inferences of convergent changes from different =
hemiplasy (e.g. [10,36]). The possibility of getting highly sup- ancestral states will be immune to the problems we have dis-
ported, yet incongruent, trees from a single mtDNA genome cussed here. While such methods may limit the number of