individual gene trees have been inferred (cf. [37,42]). tree are due to hemiplasy, with the other 6% due to homo-
We observed relatively large differences in the proportion plasy. While there are a number of caveats to this
of incongruent sites within both exons and CDSs between estimate—including variation in the mutation rate across
primates and Drosophila, such that there were more than sites—if we take it as approximately correct, it implies
double the number of such sites in Drosophila exons relative that the true proportion of hemiplastic sites in primates is
to primate exons (figure 5). The biological reasons for such 23.5% for CDSs (=25% * 0.94) and 9.4% for exons (=10% *
differences are manifold, likely including differences in 0.94). Unfortunately, we do not have such a prediction for
mutation rates, recombination rates and effective population the Drosophila data. While an estimate of this fraction may
sizes. But there are proportionally more incongruent sites help to further correct numbers from Drosophila, the exact
genome-wide in the Drosophila dataset used here, which value will not affect the general conclusion that aggregating
means that the benefit of inferring local trees should not be together segments of the genome with different histories
measured by the absolute number of incongruent sites. In results in incorrect inferences about homoplasy.
fact, the construction of trees from smaller segments appears The results presented here may be of relevance to
to have approximately equal efficacy in the two species: there an ongoing debate surrounding the application of gene tree-
are 53% and 63% incongruent sites for primates and Droso- based methods to the inference of species trees [54-57]. It has
phila genome-wide, which reduces to 25% and 38% for been shown that concatenating together loci with different
inferred CDS trees, which further reduces to 10% and 23% underlying trees can result in the inference of an incorrect
for exon trees. This relatively consistent reduction in the species tree when using maximum-likelihood methods [58],
number of sites affected by hemiplasy in the two datasets though interestingly not when using distance-based methods
suggests that the construction of local trees will also work or parsimony (at least for four-taxon rooted trees; [49,59]).
in other datasets. One solution to this problem is to use methods that combine
Our estimates of the absolute number of sites affected information from independently inferred gene trees to con-
by hemiplasy rest on the assumption that informative site struct the species tree (e.g. [60-62]). An issue with such
patterns reflect only underlying tree topologies, and that methods is that they are only guaranteed to be more accurate
there is no effect of true homoplasy. While both datasets than concatenation when each gene tree represents the top-