number of cases averted is large during those times. (Online version in colour.) z=
yy
‘counterfactual’. We demonstrate the ability of our method to could think of our complete graph as constructing a causal >
factor away cross-epidemic variation, which can lead to coun- diagram from a compartmental model. However, Ackley =
terintuitive results, such as uncertainty intervals that suggest et al. seem primarily interested in the other direction: convert- = &
that an intervention programmed to have only beneficial ing causal diagrams to compartmental models. Cook et al. =
effects instead has some small chance of having a negative take a different approach to the same problem we present >
effect. We further show our method is tractable when applied here, replacing ‘events’ with ‘resistance to accumulated infec-
to many familiar models and control strategies and have tion’ as their random component [19]. As stated in their 3
implemented software to aid in its use in common cases. paper, however, this approach does not exactly preserve the Ss
This ‘single-world’ approach of matching controlled impact of interventions (though it is a good approximation
epidemic simulations with their exact uncontrolled counter- under some assumptions) and cannot be used to model cer-
factual answers a subtly different question compared with tain interventions. Our method preserves the impact of
comparisons between independently simulated sets of epi- interventions and supports a wider class of control measures
demics with and without control. The single-world method (e.g. ring vaccination, electronic supplementary material, SC).
estimates how many cases we expect to be prevented by using a Here, we focus on a common class of discrete-time sto-
control measure, while the independent simulation approach chastic state-based models to illustrate our method, but the
estimates the expected difference in size between two different epi- diversity of models used in practice is far greater. While the
demics, one with and one without the control measure. To put it in general idea presented here could be applied to any epidemic
more concrete terms, an example of the first type of question model, it is the efficient pruning of possible states and events
is, ‘How many cases of influenza will we prevent next year if that makes this approach tractable. We expect our approach
we increase vaccination rates by 15%?’, while an example of to extend trivially to certain classes of models (e.g. network
the latter is, ‘How many fewer influenza cases do we expect models, simple agent-based models), with effort to others
next year compared with last if vaccination increases by (e.g. discretizing continuous time approaches), and not at
15%?’. Both are important public health questions, but all for certain classes of complex models (e.g. agent-based