while performing simulations that answer the latter. This models with a larger number of compartments (e.g. certain
may seem unimportant, as in their expectation they have the metapopulation models) may prevent practical use without
same answer (ignoring season-to-season inter-dependence in significant speed-ups. Going forward, there are clear oppor-
influenza epidemics for the sake of argument); but, as illus- tunities to improve the applicability and practical utility of
trated by our simple examples, their overall distributions this work by optimizing computation and refining pruning
can differ substantially, and in ways that might lead one to assumptions. Also, the current software package is somewhat
discard an intervention that has an important effect. While limiting in the types of control strategies that can be
in our simple SIR model the intervention effect had to be implemented, and we plan to add methods for users to
small for the predicted effects to cross zero, in more complex specify their own classes of interventions and appropriate
systems this can happen even for interventions with a large pruning assumptions. Moreover, our approach handles
impact (as in [3]). event removal better than event addition, so interventions
We are not the first group to examine the refined counter- that are phrased in terms of adding events (e.g. ending an
factual question. A few other groups have measured the existing vaccination campaign) may work better if the inter-
effect of a single intervention to a single model [27,28], but vention and uncontrolled cases are swapped (e.g.
their approaches do not easily generalize beyond the pres- continuing the vaccination campaign). The method can also
ented examples. Our method explicitly models time be trivially extended to situations where we are sampling
structure and includes all state transitions rather than just over parameter uncertainty as well as epidemic stochasticity.
infection events, thus extending beyond Kenah & Miller Perhaps most excitingly, conceptual parallels between our
[27]. Our method permits counterfactual events that did not approach and data augmentation approaches (e.g. [30])
occur in the factual case, thus extending beyond Haydon suggest ways in which we might more precisely explore
et al. [28]. Ackley et al. explore the relationship between how interventions might have worked in real-world

causal diagrams and compartmental models [29], and one epidemics.

