a country can cope better with one disease rather than the eral and severe situations are presented. For Nigeria,
other). As above, in a more general situation, the probability vulnerability decreases with time, reaching the asymptotic
of recovering should be substituted with the adequate values between 1.25 and 1.50 (severe situation) and between
function of the number of cases for both diseases. 1.25 and 1.30 (general situation). Note that according to our
Extension of the model at larger spatial resolution also definition, a vulnerability equal to 1 means that all infected
leads to a transparent expression for vulnerability, which is cases recover. In Sierra Leone, vulnerabilities increase with
simply the ratio of the overall impact (i.e. the sum of the time after 2010 and tend to be slightly higher than the corre-
impacts for each spatial unit) and overall adaptive capacity sponding values for Nigeria. The vulnerabilities for the
(i.e. the sum of the adaptive capacity for each spatial unit). general situation tend to be lower than those for the severe
Finally, it is important to emphasize that the terms in situation. The vulnerability to Lassa fever in Nigeria shows
the rate A (e.g. the reservoir population size Nr and the a marked decrease during the time of the epidemics com-
prevalence of the infected reservoir Prg(Np)) can be seasonal pared with the vulnerability for Sierra Leone (1). The
(leading to an in-homogeneous Poisson process) and decreasing trend in Nigeria is largely driven by the fact that

stochastic (leading to Cox processes, and if the rate A is a the number of fatal cases decreases with time, although the


number of detected cases also increases. The reasons are not
entirely clear, but we suspect that this is owing to the fact that
Lassa fever in Sierra Leone might not prompt any exceptional 7-
response (being hyperendemic in that area), while in Nigeria
the outbreak triggered a stronger response, especially follow-

ing the 2013-2016 Ebola outbreak. The uncertainty decreases 6-
