triggered by binding of macromolecules to cognate cell surface
receptors. The regulators of subcellular macropinosome traf-
ficking are shared with other endocytic pathways [4,13].
Macropinosomes become rapidly decorated with Rab5, which
is substituted with Rab7 during their maturation and lysosomal
trafficking. During this process, maturing macropinosomes
acquire content and components of late endosomes and lyso-
somes [11,14]. As a consequence, macropinosomes are readily
recognized by virtue of their large size, but their identification
on the basis of molecular markers is less clear.

Unlike other endocytic pathways, macropinocytosis is acutely tion, it reciprocally influences cell signalling. Amino acids
induced by growth factors (figure 3) [3,4]. In fact, membrane either imported through plasma membrane transporters or
ruffling and macropinosome formation are among the earliest ingested with extracellular fluid through macropinocytosis
cellular responses to growth factor stimuli [15,16]. The signal can activate mTORC1 [30]. While nutrient transporters flux
transduction cascade that initiates macropinosome formation amino acids into the cytosol at high rates, macropinocytic
is centred around the small GTPase Ras and Class I phospha- uptake of extracellular fluid conceivably contributes to intra-
tidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase). Genetic experiments in cellular amino acid pools in contexts where transporter
Dictyostelium suggest that Ras acts as the proximal signal, capacity is limiting. By supplying extracellular proteins to
which induces plasma membrane recruitment and activation the lysosome and generating an intracellular amino acid
of PI3-kinase [2]. Once active, Ras and PI3-kinase signal source, macropinocytosis also sustains mTORC1 activity in
through several effectors including the small GTPases Racl cells that reside in protein-rich but amino acid-poor environ-

and Rab5 and the kinase PAK1 to orchestrate actin ments [23]. Of note, mTORC1 is regulated by cytosolic as well
