Ted curves correspond to dynamics with a biting rate that increases and decreases respectively as a linear function of time. These diagrams takes us across changes in
a given by the horizontal broken line in figure 4a. Because of the slowing-down effect, as biting rates go from low to high and back in a linear way (a), disease
incidence (y) shows a highly nonlinear response (see panel b), which can also be represented as a hysteresis cycle in the bifurcation diagrams (see panel c). (Online
version in colour.)

back to its initial value at time t,. The response of the system different combinations, which are labelled as SE,,CIR-
is illustrated for the fraction of infectious humans (y = (C + LXV,,W, SE,CIR-XxV,W (see electronic supplementary
I)/N), a measure of disease incidence, where N is total material, §7, for a detailed description of each model).
human population (figure 5b,c). The response of the system When a model increases in complexity by the addition of
to a linear increase of the biting rate is a nonlinear increase new model parameters (encoding particular processes), the
in disease incidence (figure 5c). This can be represented as fraction of parameter space leading to a given dynamical
a hysteresis cycle on the corresponding bifurcation diagrams regime can increase, remain unchanged or decrease. The frac-
(panel c). In fact, extensive initial increases in a leave disease tion of parameter space where a given regime is found is
levels almost unchanged up to a certain threshold. In calculated by randomly drawing parameter sets within
addition, there is clear asymmetry in the two opposite control minimum and maximum values (as given in electronic sup-
trajectories: the identical linear trajectory back to the initial plementary material, table S1) and evaluating the fraction
low levels of the biting rate does not return the system to of those draws leading to a given dynamic regime. Figure 6
the same initial levels of disease incidence (figure 5). compares models from the perspective of the relative size
Beyond the threshold, the system has been pushed towards of regions with endemic equilibria or bi-stability. The exercise
a higher incidence state from which it is hard to return. suggests that the coexistence of alternative stable states is
Although decreasing a back to its initial low values would robust to model simplification. This is shown here by
eventually lead the system to settle down at the initial low representing the probability of bi-stability as model com-
incidence equilibrium determined by imported infections plexity decreases, from the SECIR-LXV,,W, a model with
(for B, = 0), the transient trajectory to this final state can be 21 parameters, to the SI-LXV,,W, a model with only 13 par-
very long. Provided everything else remains constant, the ameters (figure 6b). Even the simplest mosquito—human