strategy to identify patients that will respond better to treat- hybrids suggests that during the natural history of the infec-
ment. However, HPV-OPSCC tumours with low numbers of tion, the viral DNA was integrated into the host DNA and 3
tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) have a poorer progno- through an unknown mechanism was subsequently excised eS
sis, and this could be used to predict those patients that will and able to replicate, most likely in an E1-E2 dependent
respond poorly to treatment [20]. manner, as an HPV-human chimeric episome [29]. A
The high-risk (HR) HPV types found in cervical cancers human-HPV16 chimera has been reportedly found in a cer-
are also present in OPSCC and HPV16 is the most prevalent vical cancer so perhaps these structures might not be unique
HR type in both types of tumour [21]. However, a far greater to the head and neck [33]. It is interesting that these host—
proportion (over 80%) of OPSCC are HPV16-positive com- virus chimeric episomes were proposed in the Gillison
pared to cervical tumours in which approximately 60% are study [30] as a transient intermediate, replicated by rolling
HPV16-positive [22]. In addition, the frequency of HPV18 is circle amplification, that eventually form integrated conca-
far less in OPSCC (less than 2%) than in cervical disease temers with identical virus—host and _ virus—virus
(10%); and in fact, HPV33 is the second most prevalent HR breakpoints.
type in OPSCC (3.3%) [21,23]. The reasons for HPV16 domi- Recent analysis of the mutational landscape of
nance over the other HR viruses in OPSCC is not clear, but HPV-positive (predominantly OPSCC) in comparison to
could reflect the nature of the target cell of infection within HPV-negative (predominantly oral cavity) squamous cell
the tonsil, which may be different between HPV16 and the carcinomas provides evidence that the mutation burden in
other HPV types, differences between the infectious cycles HPV-positive tumours is indicative of apoliprotein B
or the interaction of these viruses with the host immune mRNA _ editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like
response. With regard to the latter possibility, primary (APOBEC) cytidine deaminase editing [34]. Interestingly,
foreskin keratinocytes immortalized by HPV16 are sensitive the mutational burden with HPV-positive tumours was
to tumour necrosis factor alpha treatment, whereas HPV18- similar regardless of smoking status, suggesting that the
immortalized cells are resistant to this inhibitory cytokine APOBEC-mediated innate anti-viral responses are the main
[24]. This is in part owing to different cellular driver of genetic mutations in these tumours, although it
gene expression changes induced by HPV16 and HPV18, has been clearly demonstrated that tobacco use reduces