attempting to capture letter-to-word colouring patterns with- the assumption that a single colour for a compound was an
out taking letter dominance into account presents an index of its lexicalization as a single word. However, no study
incomplete picture of the true nature of whole-word colouring. thus far has established, using a large bank of randomly

As these comments have shown, the quality of letter dom- selected high- and low-frequency words with a variety of
inance may be a widespread and influential characteristic morphological structures, how many colours synaesthetes
of synaesthetic colour associations. Subsequent studies may experience for any given word. Without that context, it is
investigate whether this dominant quality is a type of person- impossible to say whether Mankin ef al.’s [12] results were
ality associated with the letters, as in ordinal linguistic specific to compound words, or if any sort of multi-syllabic
personification (i.e. a different subtype of synaesthesia which word would show the same frequency-based pattern regardless
associates personality traits with graphemes, e.g. C is a timid of morphological structure. Additionally, no study thus far
male or 8 an perfectionistic female; [33,34]). Alternatively, has established whether this correspondence between the
letter dominance may not be a full-fledged personality trait, number of colours and the frequency of a word is, in fact, a
but rather a conceptual property of each letter, or further pattern unique to synaesthetes. It could be the case that non-
related to properties of the associated colours (e.g. lightness synaesthetes, if asked to assign any number of colours to a list
and saturation), particular hues, letter frequency, position in of compound words, would also be more likely to select two
the alphabet sequence, shape and so on. It may be that there colours for lower-frequency compounds. If this were the case,
are trends in the dominance of certain letters as there are it would not only give us some very interesting insight into
trends in their associated colours (e.g. [9,16,35-37]), which the mapping between colours and words as a more general cog-
could be connected to the processes involved in recognizing nitive correspondence, but could save researchers having to
graphemes and words and therefore uncover a new tool for recruit synaesthetes specifically for studies of this type.
studying these psycholinguistics mechanisms. On the other As mentioned above, interest in studying psycholinguistic
hand, a letter’s dominance may also be linked to its perceptual questions with synaesthesia is a subfield generating increasing
form, such that more visually complex, repeated, bold-faced, or interest. For researchers interested in fine-grained linguistic
capital letters may be more dominant.* Naturally, all of the phenomena, using synaesthetic experiences requires an equally