tivity (e.g. graphemes and colour pair together because they synaesthesia [48]. =
are adjacent). It is worthwhile elaborating on whether these differences 8

There are some instances in which the cognitive profile of in long-term memory ability are likely to be important given
synaesthetes differs from that reported in autism: notably, in that other synaesthesia researchers have been underwhelmed S
the domains of imagery, creativity and memory. Although by the findings: referring to them as ‘small’ [49] and ‘ordin- —
some high-functioning people with autism, such as Temple ary’ [50]. Figure 2 shows what two populations would look 33
Grandin [37], describe thinking in rich visual images this is like if they differed by an effect size of 0.6. This shift in ability = &
not generally the case when it is measured on standard ques- would place the average synaesthete at the 73rd percentile ~
tionnaires [38]. Indeed, the AQ contains the ‘imagination’ relative to non-synaesthetes—a difference that will almost
subscale in which low mental imagery is considered an indica- certainly have importance in the real-world. Nevertheless,
tive feature of autism [31]. By contrast, synaesthetes report there is considerable overlap between the distributions.
vivid mental imagery and this can extend across multiple Some synaesthetes, in fact, have worse memory than the neu-
senses [39]. Is it the type of synaesthesia that matters or the rotypical average. It would be tempting, but wrong, to claim
amount of synaesthesia (i.e. number of types)? Spiller et al. that these synaesthetes do not have enhanced memory. The
[39] reported that both of these factors are important, important question is: enhanced relative to what? One
including a similar dose-like effect to that noted earlier for cannot take the neurotypical mean (z = 0) as the benchmark.
sensory sensitivity. So the vividness of visual imagery of a Instead, one needs to consider the level of memory function-
grapheme-colour synaesthete will be higher if he/she reports ing that these same people might have had if they did not
other, seemingly unrelated, kinds of synaesthesia such as have synaesthesia. This is not an abstract, philosophical
lexical-gustatory (and similarly for imagery involving other argument. It can be looked for in the data. If synaesthesia
senses). This, again, suggests that increased mental imagery enhances memory for everybody then the mean will shift
(across multiple senses) is a predisposing influence on upwards but the shape of the distribution will be the same,
synaesthesia although specific modalities might get further and this appears to be the case when real data is plotted
enhanced as a consequence of particular kinds of synaesthesia (also figure 2). By contrast, if only half of the synaesthetes