passing definition of a brain could be that a brain seems to (b) Type 1: Facultative brains
be an assemblage of independent yet closely related units. Single-celled organisms showing collective behaviour (ie.
These independent units can be individuals in a superorgan- ‘proto social’ traits). These types of organisms are capable of
ism, nerve cells organized into a ‘traditional brain’, amoebas forming cell conglomerates that closely approximate the cri-
in slime moulds, or bacteria in a biofilm, among other teria for multicellularity; these conglomerates usually arise
examples. These interacting units communicate with each under challenging environmental conditions (i.e. scarcity of
other in various ways that nonetheless result in similar emer- nutritional resources). When in their ‘pseudo-multicellular’
gent phenomena that we collectively group as aspects of form, these organisms display a variety of functional charac-
behaviour, memory, and other cognition-related processes. teristics closely reminiscent of traditional brain processes
Although in many cases the units of a brain are within the (memory, ability to solve problems, cooperative behaviour,
same organism (i.e. neurons in a human brain), in many etc.). In this classification we would include social bacteria,
other cases these units are independent (again, think bacteria, slime moulds (see above) and yeast; interestingly, these latter
slime moulds and individual ants), a fact consistent with the organisms are being proposed as models to study neuronal
concept of ‘fluid-’ or ‘liquid-like’ entities. behaviour [111].

And what about plants? What do we do about plants?
Plants represent an especially difficult challenge in light of (0) Type 2: ‘True’ brains— invertebrates

the fundamental differences between them and animal
species that possess or generate nervous-system-like activities
and serve as control centres of an individual. No plant dis-
plays any indication of obvious centralized control systems.
It would be interesting to observe the development of a theor-
etical framework of plants using abilities traditionally within
the purview of brain-like systems.