quently, results may be prejudiced because tooling was simply appropriating psychological metrics to explore in
selected on the basis of its expected outcome, and not on the any particular experiment, this framework offers a solid
basis of whether it was entirely suited to the task or not. A comparative theory to found metric selection upon (figure 1).
researcher may well select an instrument from, for example, It must be stressed that this conceptualization of HRI is not
attachment theory to assess a robot interaction based on designed to state equivalence between, for example, HAIs and
what is hoped to be found, and not on what the constraints HRIs. Robots are not human, not animal, not static objects, and
of the agents involved will theoretically allow. For instance, as analogous as HHI might be to HRI, direct mapping of
attachment theory can be useful for exploring HRI, as will be metrics from one to the other cannot be expected to provide
discussed in §3 of this opinion paper, and the general concept equivalent results. Rather, the framework presented here is
of attachment and some of its related measures have been designed to provide an understanding of HRI that allows an
extended for use outside the HHI field by researchers exploring experimenter to use analytical tools similar to those that
human-animal and human-object relationships. In these already exist for analysing one category of interaction, to ana-
cases, the fact that there is a non-human half of a dyad being lyse the other. In doing so, a researcher can take advantage
discussed is taken into consideration. Similarly, any appli- of the similarities that different interactions have with one
cation of attachment theory for the purpose of better another. In short, the comparative approach provides a
understanding HRI should consider the fact that robots are researcher with a theoretical foundation upon which to make
not humans, and subsequent results obtained from studies tooling selection, and to aid appropriate analysis, by analysing
that include elements of attachment theory as part of their HRiIs in terms of their similarities to other types of existing
design should be interpreted accordingly. This can be done interactions with other humans, animals and_ objects
by, for example, comparing the application of attachment (figure 1; see also [19]).
theory in the existing literature on human-object, as well as In the following section, this opinion paper will briefly pre-
human-human, interactions in order to form a theoretical sent some novel empirical work as proof of concept,
basis on which to make predictions regarding how attachment exemplifying how this framework can help researchers select
theory might best be applied to understand HRIs. Further- appropriate methodology in order to explore the mechanisms
more, this should be done in light of the particular role of of effect occurring during a specific human—biomimetic robot