geographical distance between the natal villages of the wife ition of influence or leadership, or their control over their
and the husband increases. Consequently, a preference for descent-group affairs. This leads to comparatively lower
local marriages has been observed in these societies, as sum- local endogamy rates and lower inbreeding levels in these
marized by Murdock: ‘where residence is matrilocal, a man patrilineal populations, as well as an absence of isolation-
in marrying rarely settles in a new community. He merely by-distance patterns. In our dataset, we noticed one exception
takes his possessions from his parents’ home and moves, so to this general observation: the Khmw’, a patrilineal and
to speak, across the street’ [19, p. 214]. patrilocal population, exhibits a matrilineal-like rate of village
Several lines of evidence support the hypothesis that endogamy and genetic inbreeding level. The reasons for these
the matrilineal puzzle is responsible for the different genetic differences from the other P populations remain to be inves-
diversity patterns observed in the studied populations. First, tigated. One explanation could be that, although Khmu’
we confirmed from our ethno-demographic dataset that M follow a general patrilineal descent and patrilocal residence,
populations had higher village endogamy rates than P popu- there is in some families a period of matrilocal residence
lations (on average 87% and 73% respectively). In addition, (up to three years) [40]. Despite the fact that this matrilocal
C populations had similar village endogamy (84%) to M residence is not permanent, this may generate a ‘nascent’
populations. Previous ethnographic works on the matrilineal matrilineal puzzle, encouraging men to marry a woman
populations under study also confirmed the existence of a pre- from the same village.
ference for local endogamy. Indeed, the Jarai marry according As discussed in the introduction, local endogamy is prob-
to a ‘the closest, the safest’ rule [18] and in the Tampuan popu- ably not the only coping mechanism to the matrilineal
lation [37], the councils of elders are reluctant to integrate into puzzle; for example, one of the brothers could escape from
their villages a man coming from a distant village, a preference the matrilocal rule, allowing him to stay in his natal village
still prevailing these days, that may contribute to increase the (with his wife coming from the same or from a different vil-
rate of village endogamy. lage) and deal with his descent-group matters [5]. However,
Secondly, the village endogamy rate was shown to be a our ethno-demographic data do not support such an alterna-
good predictor of the genetic inbreeding levels in these popu- tive coping mechanism to the matrilineal puzzle in the
lations. However, the preference for cousin marriages in these Southeast Asian populations under study, since the matrili-