

Although audience checking where the signal producer which we currently find ourselves, where considerable | 9 |

looks at the signal recipient before or during signal production, research effort is being invested in trying to establish whether
may have a low-level conditioning explanation for visual signals are produced with first-order intentionality, with no
signals, there does not seem to be an obvious lower-level certainty that any of our measures are valid.
explanation for why primates should look to audience mem- Research to produce physiologically validated behavioural
bers before emitting a vocal signal, as visual attention in the measures of arousal are sorely needed if we are to change this
recipients is not necessary for vocal signals to be effective. situation, so that we can make and test differential predictions
In summary, as has been previously highlighted, each for patterns of behaviour that would be primarily arousal
of the criteria has an alternative zero-order intentional expla- driven or intentionally driven. This is not to say that these
nation; however, the empirical evidence supporting these options are mutually exclusive; in fact, it is likely that arousal
alternative explanations is highly variable and many remain plays a complementary role to intentional processes, as it
simple theoretical possibilities. It has been previously does in humans, but we need to try and disentangle the =
argued that providing convergent evidence from diverse relative contribution of affective arousal and higher cognitive >
markers, provides more robust evidence and more likely processes on communicative behaviour. Ss
attributable to a single mental ability (intentionality) than a Technological advances allowing us to test signaller arou- =:
series of arousal and conditioning based explanations sal, as well as finding that more distantly related species are = S'
[12,24], and while we agree that convergent evidence across meeting criteria for first-order intentionality (e.g. fruit fly = 5
markers is stronger than evidence from a single marker, courtship behaviour; D. Shuker 2018, personal communi- =
more discussion of the validity of these criteria is needed. cation), may lead us to conclude that the behavioural criteria 3
for first-order intentionality are not particularly useful for =
informing understanding of language evolution. In that even- >!
tuality, we may have to reconsider the virtues of trying to find =