of the century emphasized this notion to different degrees,
however (see [5,20,21] for related discussion). In any case, it


appears to have been largely lost in current practice—likely in Viewing different aspects of the social system as path-

the transition that began around the 1970s when, as noted in ways for the transmission of different resources across
§1, matriliny, and kinship more generally, were displaced generations, as suggested in §4a, it follows that the relative
from the core of anthropological enquiry, at the same time as costs and benefits of investment in matrilineal versus
researchers from other fields turned their attention to the patrilineal kin may vary across social domains. For example,
topic. The recent introduction of biologically inspired labels, the costs and benefits to a man of investing in sister’s
such as ‘female-biased/based/centred kinship’, is sympto- versus wife’s offspring may differ for material, embodied
matic of the latter development. These labels are no less and relational wealth. In fact, they may differ also for differ-
ambiguous than those they are intended to replace, with con- ent forms of wealth of the same type, such as land and
ceptual and practical issues analogous to those outlined livestock [45].
above with reference to the use of ‘matrilineal kinship’ as short- Conceptually, a key implication is that explanations for
hand. Additionally, labels such as ‘female-biased/based/ biases towards lineally related kin must not be confounded =
centred kinship’ gloss over the distinction between lateral across social domains. Clearly, the factors leading to a bias = >
and lineal kin (see §§2 and 3). This is a potentially fatal over- towards a particular set of kin in one domain may have analo-
sight for explanations that rely on specific assumptions about gous effects in others, and there will likely be feedback across =:
relatedness in determining the relative costs and benefits of domains. For example, a bias towards matrilineal kin inassign- 5!
different strategies (see [45,46] for discussion of relevant ing group membership may favour the physical aggregationof = >
assumptions in the case of matrilineal inheritance). matrilineally related women and their dependants, and/or vice =
The solution I propose here effectively recapitulates the ear- versa. At the same time, there is no reason to assume that the = &
lier notion, reframing it in terms of biases in investment towards factors leading to matrilineal descent will inevitably result in iat