and integrated into an event file. colour in which the letter is presented. However, for
A prime example of perceptual idiosyncrasy in healthy synaesthetes, processing of a letter is intimately bound to
humans is synaesthesia, a condition in which the experience the experience (i.e. the activations) of a colour dimension.
of a veridical percept (i.e. the inducer) consistently and auto- Crucially, a specific semantic representation of a letter stimu-
matically elicits a vivid experience in another modality (i.e. lus (e.g. ‘A’) will evoke the same, consistent and automatic
the concurrent) [4-8]. Importantly, individuals with synaesthe- experience or colour (e.g. red) independent of its appearance
sia know that the inducer is objectively ‘there’, while the or ‘shape’ (i.e. ‘A’, ‘a’, ‘a’, ‘A’ or ‘A’ > red) [4,21-23]. Impor-
perceived synaesthetic concurrent lacks objective perceptual tantly, even though this additionally activated synaesthetic
presence (i.e. is non-veridical) [9]. Thereby, synaesthesia can experience is task-irrelevant, it is likely to be an integral
clearly be differentiated from hallucinations and delusions part in event files in synaesthetes. Within the group of
associated with psychopathology or drug-induced states, and synaesthetes, the idiosyncratically perceived non-veridical
can serve as a useful tool for studying the underlying neuro- colour feature consistently accompanying the perception of
physiology of healthy non-veridical perceptions relevant to a letter will, in fact, serve as an overlapping feature between
the higher-order cognitive control of action [10,11]. Using different stimulus—response mappings (or event files). That
synaesthesia as a model condition, we show how non-patho- is, a subjectively perceived colour (i.e. red for ‘A’) represents
logical perceptual feature dimensions that are not objectively a feature that is integrated into two event files coding for
perceived as present in the real world (i.e. are non-veridical) opposing stimulus-response representations (‘A’: Go/‘A’:
and that are irrelevant for an action nevertheless modulate NoGo).
the control of an action. Studies within the field of synaesthesia According to TEC, feature overlap between event codes
research have shown that an additional idiosyncratic experi- impairs behavioural control, because the cognitive represen-
ence triggered by an inducer can have advantageous effects tation of the stimulus—response relationship (consisting of
on cognition, for example, in the domain of memory perform- several feature codes) has to be continuously updated and
ance [12,13]. However, it has also been shown to have adverse re-constructed according to the intended action (react or
effects on synaesthetes’ performance, for example, when a pre- withhold reaction), making the behavioural response more
sented stimulus is incongruently coloured to their perceived prone to error. Anecdotal evidence suggests that synaesthetes