consistency in colour-picking for letters could be predicted memory results in more accurate recall of visual information
by performance on a mental imagery task (IES on the about animals. Future studies would therefore need to
Animal Tails Test). The results were not so clear for the include a measure of visual memory to account for such a
colour-picking for numbers, as although the consistency possibility. While a link between mental imagery and
score for numbers significantly correlated with performance visual memory has been explored, albeit mainly with self-
on the Animal Tails Task, the regression model was not sig- report measures such as the VVIQ rather than behavioural
nificant. Interestingly, performance on a mental rotation measurements of imagery ([62,63]; but see [64] for interesting
test, self-report measures of imagery vividness and image relationship between colour memory and imagery), the
usage were not found to be related to CPC for either letters relationship between grapheme-colour synaesthesia and
or numbers. We therefore provide novel evidence that greater memory has been well documented (see [3] for a review).
consistency in colour-picking for letters is associated with Consequently, possible links between memory, imagery and
enhanced mental imagery ability on an object imagery test synaesthesia are going to be important to pick apart.
but not spatial imagery. We will discuss how these findings The fact that the CPC for either letters or numbers was not
relate to the synaesthesia and mental imagery literature, associated with the performance on the mental rotation task
before going on to consider the implications of using a is potentially a very interesting finding, if it can be replicated
proxy measure for synaesthesia. across other tests of mental rotation. Compared to object ima-
Consistency in picking colours for letters both correlated gery, the type used in the Animal Tails Task, the mental
with, and could be predicted by, performance on the rotation has been found to involve very different processes
Animal Tails Task (as measured by IES), such that greater [65,66]. Taking the colour-picking task as a proxy measure
consistency in colour choices predicted faster and more accu- of grapheme-colour synaesthesia, this suggests that while

rate performance on the object imagery task. If we take the the current study supports the idea grapheme-colour


synaesthetes have enhanced object imagery abilities, they grapheme-colour pairings for as long as they can remember | 8 |