bolous pupa is also a JH-free stage [49,54] (figure 4). happen because pupae are devoid of their own JH, these
Accordingly, Kr-h1 mRNA levels plummet in prepupae and experiments have demonstrated that the ectopic re-induction
reach their lowest levels in pupae not only of Tribolium of Br-C leads to reiteration of the pupal programme. In other
[25,38] (figure 4) but of highly derived holometabolans words, Br-C not only instructs pupal development but also
such as Bombyx [34,55] and Drosophila [37,56] as well. Even prevents further metamorphosis to the adult.
in the notoriously ‘JH-insensitive’ fly, exposure of prepupae It is important to note that one function of the episode of
or early pupae to ectopic JH prevents adult development, Kr-h1 and Br-C expression in holometabolous prepupae
although the effect is mostly limited to blocking differen- (figure 4) is to block precocious adult development. Upon
tiation of the abdominal epidermis [37,57,58] which, unlike Kr-h1 or Br-C knockdown in Tribolium larvae, mosaic inter-
the adult head and thorax, derives from histoblasts rather mediates with characters such as adult-like wings, compound
than from imaginal discs. Our recent data show that JH eyes, legs, antennae, mouthparts and the cuticle were described
exerts this effect on Drosophila metamorphosis in a manner [38,61,63] before the issue was systematically addressed by
highly dependent on the specific binding and activation of Urefia et al. [25]. The fact that knocking down the larval deter-
the JH receptor Gce [59]. minant Kr-hl or the pupal determinant Br-C alone caused
Homology between postembryonic hemi- and holometa- Tribolium to skip the pupal stage, albeit partially, seems incom-
bolous stages may not be suggested only by the timing of patible with the notion that the pupa should comprise all
JH (and Kr-h1) disappearance at the final pre-adult instars, juvenile instars of a hemimetabolous ancestor as proposed in

but additionally by the time when JH signalling first becomes the pronymph hypothesis [13-15] (figure 2). If the pupa


indeed represented all hemimetabolous larval instars, the Kr-h1 application [38,53,61]. Finally, transgenic E93 RNAi driven

or Br-C loss-of-function phenotypes would imply that the in Drosophila ubiquitously throughout development resulted
entire hemimetabolous larval stage could be omitted, at least in a pupal arrest with the adult development blocked and