
also hypothesized for the silkworm [25]. Subsequently, an proliferation and promoting apoptosis, was shown to be

extensive survey of lepidopteran-derived expressed sequence involved in regulating cell death through IAPs [36]. Hippo is
tag datasets in which sequences from 27 different lepidop- highly expressed during metamorphosis by 20E induction to
teran species were compared to Drosophila homologues, regulate the activity of the transcriptional coactivator Yorkie.
helped identify 63 putative caspase genes in Lepidoptera In particular, following 20E stimulation, Yorkie is phosphory-
[26]. These caspases clustered into six distinct groups: cas- lated and retained in the cytoplasm as it interacts with the
pase-1, -2 and -3 were considered homologues to Drosophila adaptor protein 14-3-3-e. The cytoplasmic localization of
Dep-1, Drice and Decay, respectively, and thus classified as Yorkie suppresses the transcriptional activation of IAP1 and
effector caspases owing to their short prodomain, caspase-5 releases its inhibitory effects on caspases, thus leading to apop-
and -6 showed structural features typical of initiator caspases tosis [36,37]. Interestingly, He et al. [38] showed that [APs can
and shared similarities with Drosophila Dronc and Dreed, intervene at later stages of metamorphosis as well. In fact, IAP
respectively; the function of caspase-4 as effector or initiator survivin can preserve both the imaginal midgut that forms at
caspase remained uncertain. late pupal stage and the imaginal fat body from cell death, thus

20E represents one of the major regulators of apoptosis in allowing the midgut and fat body to develop in the adult = _
Lepidoptera [27]. As in Drosophila, upon binding to its hetero- moth. This evidence demonstrates that, similarly to Drosophila, — =:
dimeric nuclear receptor complex, which consists of the IAPs are the main regulators of cell survival in Lepidoptera 5!
ecdysone receptor (EcR) and ultraspiracle (USP), this hor- and prevent the inappropriate activation of caspases during = >
mone elicits the transcription of early and late genes and development, and that various IAPs may play specific, distinct =
the activation of apoptosis. Accordingly, RNAi-mediated roles at different developmental stages. g
knockdown of USP decreases the expression of apoptosis- To fully understand the regulatory process of apoptosis, ©
related genes and reduces apoptosis in B. mori larval fat JH must also be considered. In fact, studies based on the S
body [27]. However, regulation of apoptosis by 20E in Lepi- administration of methoprene, a JH analogue, indicate that