
muscles, the latter of which includes the muscles of the simultaneously generate two independent and often harmoni-
sound-generating organ (the intrinsic muscles of the larynx cally unrelated voices [78,79], something that is not possible to
in mammals or of the syrinx in birds) as well as those of achieve with laryngeal vocalizations (although harmonically
the upper vocal tract, which can further filter and amplify related two-voice effects can be achieved by skilled human
components of these vocal sounds [64-69]. This integration vocalists who learn to accent the fundamental and certain of
can be enormously complex: human speech is estimated to its harmonics through upper vocal tract filtering [80]).
involve the coordinated activity of approximately 100 distinct Despite structural differences in their vocal end organs,
vocal, orofacial and respiratory muscles [47]. Moreover, the many functional aspects of the vocal periphery are similar
intrinsic vocal (laryngeal or syringeal, respectively) muscles in birds and mammals, as reviewed in depth by [67]. In
are active not only during vocalization but also during most instances, vocalizations are emitted during the expira-
quiet breathing [70-72], where they help regulate and gate tory phase of the respiratory cycle. Furthermore, to
respiratory airflow [73]. In fact, vocal motor networks are phonate, mammals and birds must simultaneously increase
embedded in and likely derived from brainstem respiratory airway pressure and contract the intrinsic laryngeal or syrin-
pattern-generating networks [74-77]. Thus, vocal and respir- geal muscles to apply tension to the vocal folds and the labia,
atory pattern generating networks are strongly intertwined respectively. This synergistic respiratory and vocal activity
and may not be wholly separable. causes periodic vibrations of the vocal folds or labia, which
One important consideration when comparing vocal com- in turn cause periodic vibrations in surrounding air molecules.
munication in birds and mammals is that they vocalize These airborne vibrations manifest as relatively low frequency
through functionally similar but anatomically distinct vocal (less than 10 kHz) ‘voiced’ harmonic sounds, the fundamental
end-organs [67,73] (figure 1). Birds sing and call through frequency of which (100-200 Hz in adult humans) directly cor-
their syrinx, a bipartite muscular organ located at the junction relates with the activity of certain intrinsic laryngeal or
of the trachea and the two bronchi, whereas mammals vocalize syringeal muscles (i.e. the cricothyroid muscle in mammals
through the larynx, a unipartite structure rostral to this and the ventral syringeal muscle in birds) [68,81]. Other simi-
junction, closer to the cranium. Notably, many songbird larities include the ability to emit a wide range of vocal