sal while the monkeys produced different vocalizations that (corvid songbirds) can be trained in a manner that satisfies 5!
were elicited by systematically manipulating social context these three criteria, and thus display volitional vocal control =>
[51]. It was found that arousal levels were correlated with [60,61]. There, the animals were trained in a computer- =
changes in different acoustic features and the production of controlled Go/Nogo-protocol to vocalize as soon as they saw 8
different vocalizations. These findings are in agreement a visual stimulus, which was delivered with an unpredictable =
with the notion of arousal level changes resulting in call onset time. The red or blue squares used as instructive stimuli S
type differences. However, this study also found that the were arbitrary and contained no inherent hedonic value that N
production of these different call types is also affected might trigger vocalization through an affective process, satisfy- S
by extrinsic factors such as the timing of a conspecific’s ing the first criterion. Second, the animals vocalized promptly Pa
vocalization in contexts where marmosets are interacting. after the onset of the instruction stimulus (approx. 1.5 s). Third,
While internal state is a natural driver of many human the animals responded reliably to the instruction stimulus with
vocalizations, we can also vocalize under volitional control, high hit rates after presentation of the instruction stimulus, and
such as when we engage in spoken conversation. In fact, a dis- displayed low false alarm rates in the absence of the instruc-
tinction between volitional and affective (spontaneous, tion stimulus [60,61]. Finally, one monkey even learned to
emotional) movements has long been recognized in clinical switch between two distinct call types from trial to trial in
neurology, especially for orofacial movements that are indis- response to different visual cues [60].
pensable to vocalization [52,53]. Patients with facial paralysis These findings indicate that monkeys and songbirds are
owing to damage to the descending pathways from the able to volitionally initiate vocal production and thus can
motor cortex have considerable difficulty smiling or frowning instrumentalize their vocal behaviour in a goal-directed
in response to a neurologist’s commands (a condition called manner. Interestingly, however, this volitional control was
‘voluntary facial paresis’), even though they smile or frown developmentally restricted in monkeys: while both monkeys
naturally in response to their emotional state. Similar dis- reliably vocalized on command during juvenile periods,
sociations have been observed for vocalizations, where some they discontinued this controlled vocal behaviour in adult-
patients with neurological insults may lose volitional control hood [62]. This developmental loss of volitional vocal
of their speech (despite intact speech comprehension), but production contrasts with persistent affective vocal pro-