detected particles with a size below 150 pm?. Based on from the contractile motion. The exact mechanism of inhibition
the area, we estimate an intracellular volume in the range of CM contraction is not entirely clear but it is envisioned
of 2.0-17.0 pL with a mean of 3.3+0.1 pL, For comparison, that CytoD may bind to sarcomeric actin filaments thereby
previous reports have estimated a volume of 3.96 + 0.25 pL uncoupling cellular excitation from contractility [56]. The
for hiPSC-CMs [38]. uncoupling activity of CytoD is typically reported at con-

The mechanical analysis of primary CMs by AFM has centrations between 5yM and 80M [57], which is
revealed Young’s moduli in the 10-15 kPa range [24,39]. Com- considerably higher than values of 0.1-1 uM often used for
pared to primary CMs, hiPSC-CMs generally lack the high the inhibition of cytoskeletal functions [58,59]. In part, this is
sarcomeric density found in primary cells, nor do they display owing to the fact that sarcomeric actin filaments are deemed
a similar cytoskeletal structure [40]. Consequently, Young’s to be more stable than the cytoskeletal ones, notably those
modulus of hiPSC-CMs is expected to be lower than that of pri- that take part in contracting sarcomeres [14].
mary cells. In fact, according to AFM-based measurements, the Indeed, our contractility assay indicates that only at high
average apparent Young’s modulus for adherent hiPSC-CMs concentrations of CytoD a significantly different contractile
has been reported to be between 0.3 kPa and 0.5 kPa [41,42]. behaviour emerges. This change is characterized by a notice-
Likewise, from our RT-DC measurements we derive an average able lower amplitude of the contraction peaks (figure 2d, top)
Young’s modulus for individual hiPSC-CMs of 1.25 + 0.08 kPa. and a shortening in the duration of the contraction events
The elasticity previously reported for hiPSC-CMs by AFM (figure 2d, bottom). Changes in the duration of contraction
values resulted from the measurement of approximately events appear to become clearly visible only at 10*nM.

50 cells or less, whereas we measured thousands of cells in a Between 0nM and 10°nM, the duration of contraction
single experimental run. Moreover, the reported AFM data events appears to be evenly distributed around a mean
compiled for each cell spreads over an entire order of magni- value of 0.54+0.09s (95% confidence interval highlighted
tude. This is common in AFM measurements and is owing to in figure 2d, bottom). At 10* nM CytoD, the duration of con-
the inherit sensitivity of AFM-based methods to local heteroge- traction events is strongly reduced to a considerably lower