
cases, they are not similar in character to their parents; instead of the last point will become clear below. Perhaps confus-

we get a class of larvae. [4] [GA 723b3-7] ingly, the metamorphosis of hemimetabolous insects like
The importance of this difference in view of the plasticity of these is nowadays often designated as ‘incomplete’, but to
an organism’s essential nature can hardly be exaggerated. It Aristotle it was no metamorphosis at all because the
is a fundamental cause of the divide between Aristotle's nymph has the ‘same nature and name’ as the adult, in
biology and our own. The morphological species concept other words they are already ‘complete’.
that has been current in biological science from the time of Aristotle is not always very clear on whether he thinks
Linnaeus onward completely depends upon the idea that that this kind of insect is generated as a perfect offspring
every living organism is a member of only one species and by means of an egg. He clearly says that grasshoppers do
is generated only from the same species of organism [25]. It copulate and lay eggs [5] [HA 555b18-19]. But he then mis-
is controversial whether or not the species concepts of Aristo- takes what is in fact the developing egg of a locust for a
tle and Linnaeus, and also of modem biology, are worm-like larva (this is surprising because if what he says
philosophically essentialist ideas [26-31], but it is incontro- were true it would mean that he would have to classify a
vertible that the Linnean species is dependent on like locust as belonging to the class of insects that he says are gen-
breeding like. We now take it for granted that the nature of erated spontaneously). He says:
an animal is defined by its parentage. But, for Aristotle, it [Locusts] deposit their ova in one spot, so as to make it appear
is evident in the context of complete metamorphosis that like a honeycomb. As soon as they have deposited their ova,

the Eidos of an animal is not necessarily defined by a egg-like maggots are formed, which are covered with a thin coat-
ing of earth like a membrane, and in this they are matured. The

single essence at all, and that in metamorphosing animals, young are so soft as to collapse if they are only touched. They are
the need to metamorphose is due to the failure of the not produced on the surface, but a little below the surface of the