single-cell genomics; (ii) physiological states among each of interactions. In complex environmental samples it
these components, analogous to what we would obtain would be necessary to discriminate eukaryotic cells
from a metatranscriptomic analysis but with single-cell from non-cellular particles and non-eukaryotes. Cell
resolution; (iii) life cycle stages or temporal cell types for selection through FACS can solve this issue by target-
each of the members of the community; and (iv) microbial ing only cells of interest. FACS additionally allows the
interactions and their associated transcriptional pheno- strict selection of only single cells, which may contain
types. Many of the predictions of these analyses could be within them endosymbionts, prey, parasites and/or
validated by using multiplexed fluorescence in situ hybrid- pathogens. This is another major advantage when
ization [82,83], targeting markers for different temporal studying cell-cell interactions, as it is possible to
cell states/cell types in a particular species or against mar- distinguish between true intracellular interactions
kers for multiple species (to validate interactions and and random aggregates. The latter could be
community composition). removed during cell dissociation/homogenization
However, considering the methodological state-of-the-art before sampling, and FACS would provide a
discussed in ยง2, we foresee important technical and analytical second level of exclusion of doublet or multiplet
challenges associated with realizing single-cell ecology event. In contrast to FACS, droplet microfluidic
experiments of this nature. applications with higher doublet rates may result

in some false positive interactions owing to random

co-encapsulation events.
(i) Sampling bias. An essential aspect when sampling a (iii) Lack of reference genomes. Another problematic
heterogeneous community will be the use of a meth- aspect of the single-cell analysis of a multi-species
odology agnostic to distinct cell properties. For ensemble would be the absence of reference

