desired, unlike FACS and amplicon sequencing, or hand By
picking cells under a microscope and sequencing, as has 3
been done for predatory heterotrophs [77]. A
Most rate measurements on mixotrophs in nature follow Fy
ingestion rates by use of surrogate fluorescent prey as tracers, $
a technique first introduced for quantifying ingestion rates by 3
heterotrophic flagellates [78] in natural communities. Multiple =
studies have since quantified ingestion rates by mixotrophs
and shown their important and often dominant contributions ~
to overall bacterivory in many freshwater and marine environ- Figure 4. Pigmented flagellates with acidic compartments stained. Cultured =~
ments [16,17,67]. Nevertheless, the use of surrogate prey is Ochromonas CCMP2951 stained by LysoTracker (green DND-26) (a), and cells =
subject to known biases involving prey selectivity and diel from an oligotrophic eastern North Pacific Ocean site (Station 67-125; S
variations of ingestion rates by mixotrophs [31,65]. Further- 34.287°N; 127.355°W) sorted by FACS based on LysoSensor (yellow-blue  —
more, there are other processes that might lead to co- DND 160) staining (b,c). Shown are images from bright-field light microscopy
association of bacteria with photosynthetic eukaryotes that (left), epifluorescence microscopy showing chlorophyll and yellow-green
can be difficult to distinguish from ingestion. Bacteria benefit LysoTracker fluorescence (a, middle), or yellow LysoSensor fluorescence and
from higher nutrient concentrations available through co- red chlorophyll fluorescence individually (b,c, middle and right). For
association with photosynthetic eukaryotes in an area known CCMP2951 an overlay of bright field and epifluorescence microscopy is also
as the ‘phycosphere’, which describes an envelope surround- shown (a, right). Images in (a) and (b) represent mixotrophic cells with sig-
ing each phytoplankton cell where leaked chemical nals from acidic food vacuoles, while the signal in (c) likely stems from an
compounds and metabolites from the host cell are elevated acidic thylakoid lumen and thus does not demonstrate mixotrophy.

relative to that of the surrounding water. However, the for-
mation and stability of these associations are still not well
understood [20,79]. As shown above, the surface properties