additional exploration [60]. Interestingly, SLN expression is

largely limited to oxidative/slow-twitch muscle and its

uncoupling activity does not interfere with muscle function (0) Sarcolipin regulates whole-body metabolism
[63-66]. Skeletal muscle is one of the most metabolically active organs
in the body contributing to both resting and activity-induced
increase in whole-body metabolism. Muscle constitutes more

(b) Sarcolipin Is Important for whole-body temperature than 40% of body mass and even a small change in muscle

maintenance energy expenditure by uncoupling of SERCA by SLN can sig-
To better understand the physiological relevance of SLN in nificantly affect the whole-body metabolism. In fact, we
muscle, we developed an SLN-knockout (SLN-KO) mouse found that SLN-KO mice gained more weight than their
model [67]. The deletion of SLN did not affect survival or WT littermates even on chow diet, but the phenotype was
growth, and the mice were indistinguishable from their more pronounced when mice were fed on high-fat diet
wild-type (WT) littermates and did not show any visible phe- (HFD) [64]. The SLN-KO mice became more obese on HFD,
notype under non-stressed conditions. To determine if SLN is than WT and developed metabolic disorders including
indeed essential for thermogenesis, we decided to challenge hyperlipidaemia, hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance.
SLN-KO mice to acute cold (4°C), but there was one problem: Interestingly, WT mice fed on HFD upregulated SLN
mice are endowed with BAT which plays a major role in cold expression in selected muscles and remained leaner when
adaptation. Therefore, we surgically removed the interscapu- compared with SLN-KO [68,77,78]. Research from Tupling’s
lar BAT (iBAT) in both WT and SLN-KO before cold laboratory has shown that SLN affects ATP utilization by
challenge. When exposed to acute cold (4°C), the iBAT- SERCA even in resting skeletal muscle [66]. They went on
ablated WT mice were able to maintain T, close to 37°C, to show that SLN-KO mice exhibit diet-induced obesity