tetrapods, or land vertebrates, as will be explained below) figure 1). Taxa within the crown group that are more closely
and even some fish without lungs (e.g. mudskippers) can related to modern amphibians (= Lissamphibia: frogs, sala-
use other specialized surfaces such as the inside of the oper- manders and caecilians) than they are to amniotes, but that
cular chamber, and their skin is also highly vascularized [1]. are more basal to that grouping, are referred to as ‘stem amphi-
(The small size of mudskippers also provides a favourable bians’ (position ‘y’ in figure 1). Likewise, taxa that are more
surface area to volume ratio for cutaneous gas exchange.) closely related to the grouping of extant amniotes (mammals,

The real problem for a fish coming onto land is not birds and reptiles) than they are to extant amphibians are
obtaining oxygen, but excreting carbon dioxide. We do not referred to as ‘stem amniotes’ (position ‘z’ in figure 1). Ss
perceive carbon dioxide loss as a problem for ourselves, These early tetrapods were formerly referred to as labyr- =:
because our lung ventilation rate is sufficiently high that we inthodonts (the larger forms) or lepospondyls (the smaller = 5'
can eliminate it in the course of obtaining oxygen. But a forms). However, the term ‘labyrinthodont’, at least, has been a
little appreciated fact is that our rate of lung ventilation is abandoned as it is now known to be a polyphyletic grouping =
actually determined by our need to remove carbon dioxide of stem tetrapods, stem amphibians and stem amniotes. Lepos- — &
from our bodies. In fact, we can decrease our normal venti- pondyls have been variously regarded as a monophyletic =
lation rate by almost half and still have haemoglobin that is or polyphyletic grouping. Witzmann [6] shows them asa =
90% saturated [2]. For a terrestrial fish, carbon dioxide elim- monophyletic grouping placed as the sister group of amniotes; N
ination would be the critical issue, the build-up of carbon more recent work places some of them (the lizard-like micro- s
dioxide in the body resulting in the accumulation of protons saurs) within the Ammiota and others (the snake-like
in the body fluids, also called acidosis. Land vertebrates have aistopods) as stem tetrapods [7]. We consider lepospondyls
an additional problem: not only do they encounter respirat- here only within the context of the distribution of integument
ory acidosis from carbon dioxide excretion via regular types in association with aquatic or terrestrial habitat in table 1.
cellular processes, but they also must exert themselves more The listing of types of early tetrapods follows Witzmann [6]
to locomote on land and hence also encounter metabolic except when noted, and the order reflects the systematic order-
acidosis from the build-up of lactic acid. Swimming is more ing from more basal to more derived. Stem tetrapods include