constant curvature [30,31,37,38]. Furthermore, for some Hence, when a sperm cell is tethered at its head, an average
species, it has been shown that the rotation velocity depends curvature Cy and a second harmonic with amplitude C,
indeed linearly on Cp [30,39,40], as predicted by theory. Note contribute about equally to the rotational velocity.
that the terminology and the parameters used to characterize A comparison of the power spectrum of the flagellar curva-
the flagellar beat pattern have varied substantially over the ture reveals that the average curvature Cp is larger for sea urchin
last half a century, making a direct comparison across studies sperm as compared with human sperm, while the second

difficult. For the convenience of the reader, we include a harmonic is somewhat larger for human sperm (figure 4b-d).


Although we cannot directly manipulate Co and C; in exper- d[Ca?*];/dt of the calcium concentration [51]. From the

iments, we took advantage of the fact that these parameters functional dependence between rotational velocity and the
changed as a function of time, which caused substantial vari- average flagellar curvature, it can be inferred that Co is con-
ations in the net rotational velocity (figure 4c,d). We find that trolled by the time derivative of [Ca?*], at least in sperm
these time-varying values of the rotational velocity correlate from marine invertebrates. This corollary, however, has not
with the time-varying values of Co and C;. This correlation is yet been tested experimentally.

consistent with a linear dependence of the rotational velocity The mechanism by which Ca** alters any of the steering
on both average curvature and the effective strength of the parameters for directed cell movement is yet unclear. As a
second harmonic (figure 4e-h), in agreement with equations matter of fact, the molecular mechanism used by sperm to
(4.1), (4.2), (5.1) and (5.2). generate and change Cy and C2 is not known, yet some

studies provide essential insights narrowing down the
players leading to Co generation. It has been proposed that =