published results [20] and with the reports of Wang ef al. have been characterized that result in abnormally short
[42] that IFT protein quantity is increased in flagella of If4 flagella, and if some of these mutations resulted in decreased
null mutants. Live cell differential interference contrast IFT, they could provide a valuable alternative source of data
(DIC) imaging was previously used to analyse quantitative for testing the role of IFT in length control. Currently, how-
parameters of IFT in a panel of mutants [17], but no If ever, our TIRF-based approach does not allow us to reliably
mutants were analysed in that study, and in any case, DIC measure IFT in very short flagella, for two reasons. First,
does not provide information on train size. Prior biochemical short flagella do not stick very well to the glass coverslip.
studies [44] indicated increased IFT protein within the fla- Second, because the cell body is spherical, the most proximal
gella of /f3 null mutants, but those studies are difficult to portion of the flagellum is unable to lie flat in the TIRF field,
interpret because the /f3 allele used caused flagella to be making it difficult to quantify IFT in that region. The solution
abnormally short, not long, so loading equal total protein will be to move away from TIRF imaging and mount cells in
per well, as done by Tam et al. is expected to show increased such a way that the entire flagellum can be imaged in a single
IFT protein for short flagella simply by virtue of the fact that plane. Technology for mounting cells in microfluidic devices
IFT protein content tends to be length-independent. Our has been reported [33].
imaging-based results provide a more direct demonstration The work discussed here focuses on Chlamydomonas
that /f mutants beyond /f4 also affect IFT injection. flagella as a model system. This system has many advantages
Our theoretical analysis of these results suggests that the for the study of IFT and its regulation, such as a large set of
increased injection of IFT in the /f mutants is able to explain pre-existing, well-characterized genetic mutations, the rapid
part of the increase in length, indicating that length-dependent and convenient culture of Chlamydomonas cells, and the ease
regulation of IFT is clearly playing a functional role in the of imaging Chlamydomonas flagella by TIRF microscopy.
length control system. On the other hand, the predicted However, the IFT system and indeed the entire machinery of
change in length based on the increased injection rate is the axoneme is highly conserved between algae and mammals,
smaller than the length change that is actually observed in making it likely that results obtained in Chlamydomonas will
the mutants, possibly suggesting that our model as currently also apply in human cells. This is of potential importance,
formulated may be missing one or more important aspects given that the length of primary cilia is sometimes altered in