than 0.01 rad s? would mean that the supramolecular bond preliminary cyclic stress-strain tests were performed in sev-
lifetime of the primary bonds was greater than 628s [24]. eral seconds. Furthermore, the strain rate used in the
This is longer than other non-covalent, metal-based interactions preliminary stress-strain loops was at least ten times greater
that have been reported [23,24]. Because the dynamics of mol- than the later tests, and yet showed the exact same pattern.
ecular cross-links govern the properties of supramolecular If viscous processes were the main source of energy dissipa-
networks, cross-links with long bond lifetimes typically lead tion, this would not be true.
to stronger materials [25]. While previous work had suggested that calctum and =
Also as predicted, these cross-links act as sacrificial bonds magnesium may form sacrificial bonds in slug glue [9,10], =
that fail continuously throughout extension. The shape of the the results in this paper suggest that they play a less promi- Ss
loading-unloading curve in cyclic tests and the response to nent role. Previous evidence for calcium cross-linking is its = =
repeated tests at progressively increasing strain is character- abundance [10], the weakening of the glue in the presence = 5!
istic of double networks [26,27]. These tests demonstrate of ligands that compete for hard Lewis acids such as calctum >
marked hysteresis due to the failure of sacrificial bonds. [9,10], and the fact that most of the proteins in the glue have =
While the stress linearly increases during extension, it drops calcium-binding sites [11]. In this study, calctum and mag- —&
precipitously to near zero on the return phase. This indicates nesium readily and completely dissociate from the glue at =
that the glue has dissipated most of its stored energy through all pH values tested. The presence of acetate would presum- = >!
failure of specific cross-links. This pattern occurs when the ably accelerate the dissociation, as it is a ligand for these s
glue is extended to any strain between 0 and 5, indicating ions. Nevertheless, these metal ions seem unlikely to serve s
that failure of sacrificial bonds is continuous rather than as the primary cross-links, given that they dissociate rapidly 5
occurring at a specific yield point. Thus, as the material while the primary cross-links have a relatively long bond
extends, sacrificial bonds break, such that the material is lifetime.
much less stiff when returned to its initial length. Perhaps the abundance of calcium and magnesium
When repeated tests are performed to progressively larger merely reflects the need to balance charge on the polyanionic
strains, a striking pattern emerges. When re-extended after a polysaccharides and to control glue structure. The ability of
cycle, the curve matches the previous unloading phase, right divalent ions to balance charge may allow the polyanionic