datasets based on zooarchaeological assemblages in order to

minimize sources of researcher bias. There is also increasing Holocene faunal record

availability of large, open-access databases of zooarchaeo- Our combined analyses demonstrate that bias is widespread,
logical and palaeontological records that will continue to with sources and patterns of bias varying across taxonomic,
facilitate the incorporation of long-term archives into biodiver- spatial and temporal scales in the Holocene faunal record.
sity assessments [72]. However, as these datasets are usually Size bias is a particularly complex issue to resolve, especially
derived from multiple and often secondary sources, great care when using the recent faunal record to investigate species
is needed in auditing and curating in order to minimize the population dynamics and extinctions at both local and global
use of erroneous or poor-quality data [73]. We also found no ele- scales. For example, large mammals tend to be well identified
vational bias in the spatial spread of zooarchaeological data and over-represented in the Holocene fossil and zooarchaeo-
across Europe. This may be owing to the fact that many prehis- logical records relative to their status in natural source
toric human populations are known to have lived at high populations, whereas our knowledge of many small mammals
altitudes in Europe (and elsewhere globally), and that archaeo- is generally more incomplete or even altogether unknown, pro-
logical research is increasingly conducted in remote and viding a biased understanding of extinction risk across
hard-to-access landscapes including at higher elevations [74]. different taxa. By contrast, modern-day abundance has been
The precision of dating for zooarchaeological records, shown to be a strong predictor of abundance in the Holocene
represented by the length of available date ranges, also faunal record for other vertebrate groups [18]. Sources and
varied across the Holocene, providing a further source of bias patterns of bias in Holocene faunal datasets therefore need to
in our zooarchaeological dataset and influencing its ability to be carefully identified and quantified on a case-by-case basis,
make inferences about past biodiversity baselines and human particularly accounting for potential variation in bias between
impacts. This temporal variation partly reflects the mix of different taxonomic or ecological groups, and considering
absolute and relative methods used to date records; whereas appropriate spatial extents, timescales and types of faunal
the majority of our zooarchaeological records were indirectly data that are most relevant to the specific parameters of