the brain [5,23,24]. However, recent data from our own lab- putative reactivation and consolidation of memories through
oratory, and from other groups, suggest that the hierarchical systematic SO-spindle interactions [49]. Indeed, evidence
organization and spontaneous rhythmic occurrence of sleep suggests that the coupling between SO and spindle might
spindles are critical mechanisms necessary for effective play a key role in the process of memory consolidation
covert memory reprocessing, reorganization and consolida- 50-53]. Recently, however, it has been proposed that
tion of memories. We thus propose here a sleep spindle additional oscillatory mechanisms, other than SOs and its
framework for motor memory consolidation that integrates coupling with spindles, relating to local spindle rhythmicity
the rhythmic local reactivation of newly encoded information may also be of critical importance for the consolidation of
and the oscillatory interactions between segregated brain both declarative and procedural memories [23,24,54—-56]. In
regions and nested frequencies for efficient strengthening line with the latter viewpoint, studies have revealed that
and integration of new representations into long-term locally expressed spindles follow two types of rhythms
memory networks. during NREM sleep: the infraslow and mesoscale rhythms.
Using explicit MSL paradigms, numerous studies have In fact, results from our laboratory [24,56] and that of other
revealed that both nocturnal and diurnal sleep enhance con- researchers have shown that the groups of periodically
solidation of newly acquired motor sequence knowledge, as recurring spindles (called ‘trains’) appear to cycle at an
expressed by post-sleep maintenance or additional perform- infraslow frequency scale (about 0.02 Hz) during both light
ance gains in the absence of further task engagement NREM stage 2 sleep [54,55] and deep NREM stage 3 slow-
([3,17,25,26], for reviews). There is also ample evidence that wave sleep (SWS) [23]. Such ‘trains’ of sleep spindles closely
motor memory consolidation is associated with state-like spaced in time are operationalized in our framework
changes in sleep spindle characteristics (i.e. increases in spin- (figure 1a) as groups of two or more consecutive and
dle frequency, amplitude and density) following learning. region-specific spindles interspaced by less than or equal

However, most of the findings supporting the role of to 6s [24], in comparison to those occurring in isolation

