relatives of a microbial culture, after a similar number of by soil pH, but this may be through its influence on the avail- = =
generations in laboratory culture.) Single-cell genomics has ability of nutrients or on other microbes, plants and animals __
also demonstrated considerable genomic diversity within within the community and, thereby, microbial interactions. — =
individual rRNA-defined phylotypes (e.g. [11]), preventing Further issues associated with the choice of environmental — 5!
prediction of all of the genetic characteristics of other phylotype characteristics are discussed below. a
members. Nevertheless, induction is used to infer, often with no More commonly, results will be compared to those from =
qualification or reservation, the functions and metabolic path- other studies, to gain support for the inference that the associ- = &
ways of relatives in the environment on the basis of a single ations and patterns observed apply generally. This requires =
gene, genome or chimeric metagenome-assembled genome objectivity but, unfortunately, it is easier to search for data >
(even when more than 50% of gene functions are unknown). that support an inference than data that do not. It is also easy N
This is not to suggest that molecular, genomic or metage- to discount lack of support through, e.g. different soils, method- s
nomic approaches have no value, but they have very little ologies, experimental design, etc., while similar criticisms are s
value if based on induction alone. In fact, molecular tech- not made of supportive data. In addition, while the strength
niques have themselves provided many examples of the of associations is quantified, comparisons with previous data
dangers of induction and unquestioning ‘knowledge’. This are usually made on the basis of qualitative or at best semi-
does not mean, for example, that we should ignore recurring quantitative comparisons, such that interpretations become
observations but we should not predict outside the range of matters of degree and opinion and lack precision.
our experience in the absence of understanding. There are also fundamental issues associated with corre-

lation studies, e.g. what is the minimum number of
characteristics required to discriminate the number of phylo-

(a) Induction and correlation types being considered, what is the ‘best’ spatial scale, how
Correlation analysis is a powerful statistical technique that can this be assessed without aims and criteria? The only
can be used to test theoretical predictions. However, it is (apparent, but usually unstated) aim of these studies is to