(b) Application to correlation-based studies
To apply inference to best explanation to the above examples,
of ammonia oxidizers and biogeographic patterns, the implicit

4. Inference to best explanation assumption is that phylotype relative abundance will be
Inference to best explanation describes interpretation of infer- related to soil characteristics. Correlations lead to inferences
ences, arising from data, in the context of existing or new and different hypotheses can be explored that might explain
hypotheses or mechanisms in attempts to find the hypothesis these correlations, but these examples illustrate problems
that best explains the data, concluding that this hypothesis is with this approach. =
true. For example, selection of a particular phylotype under Firstly, and fundamentally, niche specialization suggestsa_ = =
certain environmental conditions may be explained through mechanism or cause for differences in community compo- — __
existing knowledge of physiological or genetic characteristics sition. Soil characteristics will determine the abundance of — =
of its relatives. In fact, many community studies are implicitly, ammonia oxidizers as a functional group and differences in 5!
if unconsciously, testing the concept of niche specialization and relative abundance of different phylotypes. Crucially, however, =
differentiation. (See [13] for steps involved and some consider- correlation analyses do not distinguish cause and effect and =
ation of its application to microbes.) Briefly, this posits that we, therefore, cannot suggest that an environmental character- = &
environmental characteristics will lead to evolution and selec- istic causes, explains or predicts, or is a driver of the presence or =
tion of strains whose physiological characteristics are best relative abundance of a phylotype. (This false interpretation >
adapted to those environmental characteristics. The relative of data is exacerbated by ambiguous terminology. To a N
abundance of these strains will increase and they will be dis- statistician, pH may be described as a driver or predictor or s
persed, colonizing other similar environments, again through explanatory factor of relative abundance, or as explaining rela- s
selection based on their physiology. Both 165 rRNA- and func- tive abundance with which it is correlated. For an ecologist, this
tional gene-analyses enable tracking of phylogenetic groups would wrongly imply a cause and effect relationship, rather
and correlation is predicted between phylotypes and ecological than a mere statistical relationship.) It is not valid to consider
conditions. The validity of this concept depends on the validity that correlation demonstrates direct links between phenotypic