chance. First-order questions are concerned with a single set of SWR events and a single template. In contrast, second-order questions compare replay content between
multiple data sets (e.g. time 1 and time 2, purple boxes), templates (e.g. track A and track B, red boxes) or both. Typical second-order questions include determining
whether post-experience SWR content better resembles activity during behaviour compared to pre-experience content, and whether the left arm of a maze is more
frequently (reactivated than the right arm. (b) Both first-order and second-order questions about SWR content can be categorized as focusing on which cells participate,
while ignoring temporal order (ensemble reactivation, left), and/or as focusing on what order these cells are active (sequence replay, right). Typical ensemble reactivation
questions include determining if a given pair or ensemble of cells is more co-active than expected by chance (a first-order question) or which of multiple possible ensem-
bles is more active (e.g. ‘blue’ versus ‘green’ cells, a second-order question); typical sequence replay questions include determining if firing order is different from chance
(a first-order question), and determining which of two firing orders is more prevalent (a second-order question). (Online version in colour.)

of SWR activity that are neurophysiologically or behaviourally encoding and initial retrieval are supported by the hippo-
meaningful. campus (though we note, that it is currently unclear whether

A second reason to care about different kinds of structure in the content of replay is, in fact, episodic; the relationship
SWR activity is that each may be associated with distinct cog- between SWRs and the subjective experience of retrieval or
nitive and/or mnemonic processes. For example, temporally mental time travel remains to be established). Conversely,
structured sequence replay may be better suited to signalling ensemble reactivation that is not explicitly ordered in time,

multimodal, temporally organized episodic events for which but does involve a consistently co-active set of cells, may be


Box 1. Ground truth for replay?

Spiking activity during sharp-wave ripples (SWRs) exhibits a diverse array of structured patterns, including the systematic
co-activation of particular subsets of cells (pairs and ensembles, ‘ensemble reactivation’), and temporal ordering which
matches that observed during behaviour (sequence replay). Analyses of SWR activity aim to determine whether such patterns