The technique (3C) measures physical contacts by DNA A complementary approach to those involving direct obser-
segments within and between DNA molecules and has vation is to impose some kind of experimental
been used extensively to analyse the three-dimensional struc- manipulation on a given community, ideally affecting a
ture of genomes [38]. We refer the reader to specialized single evolutionary (or ecological) process, and to then deter-
literature for detailed protocols (or for a review, see [39]), mine the effect of the manipulation both on the underlying
but in brief, contacts are frozen in time by the addition of a eco-evolutionary dynamics of community members and on
cross-linking agent. The trapped DNA is then digested with community function. We mention one such manipulation
a restriction endonuclease and the cut fragments then that derives from our own recent work. The research article
re-ligated. This results in a strong bias toward fragments appears elsewhere in this special issue [46]; thus we provide
that, prior to digestion, were physically close and thus only brief mention here.
likely to share the same cellular compartment. The frequency Inspiration for the experiment came in part from the
distribution of events is determined by paired-end sequen- power and elegance of selection experiments with single gen-
cing. Knowledge of the distribution, combined with the fact otype microbes, where evolutionary change arising after a
that the distribution follows the laws of polymer physics, is period of serial propagation can be attributed primarily to
then used to identify synteny between DNA fragments up mutation and selection [47]. As discussed above, a process
to several hundred kilobase pairs apart. of significance for microbial communities—and which may

Koszul and colleagues [40] recognized that 3C had utility have community-level properties, dynamics and effects—is
beyond studying the structure of individual chromosomes the transfer of genetic material between often distantly
and could be applied to metagenomic data (they coined the related bacteria by bacteriophages and other selfish genetic
term meta3C) to not only assemble contigs into chromosomes, elements (SGEs) [48,49]. A rough analogy might equate
but also capture interactions between chromosomes and acces- such a process with sexual reproduction within species.
sory elements such as bacteriophages and plasmids. The latter Studies of the evolutionary consequences of sex have been
can be further used to identify the range of chromosomes (and most powerfully analysed via experiments in which the evol-
thus cells) that such elements co-associate with and even the utionary performances of isogenic sexual and asexual types