
that microbial decomposers forage for resources through the = &
production of extracellular enzymes is improbable. The low =

(0) Adaptations to heterogeneous environments substrate concentrations are also likely to limit motility as it S
The strategies for minimizing the metabolic cost associated has a high energy requirement. N
with the acquisition of extracellular resources are likely to If soil microbial decomposers find themselves in a harsh s
be reinforced in heterogeneous environments such as soil, and unreliable local environment in which both resource acqui- 5
where the return on investment is highly uncertain. The uncer- sition and motility are constrained, what strategy should they
tainty of the return on enzyme investment stems from the use? Here, we suggest that the selective landscape that emerges
combination of the heterogeneous nature of the available from the interaction between resource and environmental het-
resource and a spatially heterogeneous physical environment. erogeneities has pushed microbial decomposers to ‘play a
As we will attempt to show in the following paragraphs, waiting game’. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that
the interaction between resource heterogeneity and spatial many soil bacteria produce extracellular polymeric substances
heterogeneity reduces the probability of other strategies of [14]. Soil bacteria allocate resources to the production of extra-
resource acquisition, such as motility or resource use at a cellular polymeric substances (EPS), as an insurance against, or
community level, being employed. As a result, evolution buffer for, fluctuating conditions in their environment [14]. For
may have pushed soil microbial decomposers towards a example, the production of EPS has been shown to maintain
cautious approach to investment in resource acquisition. moisture levels of the microbial microenvironment [40]. Extra-

The resources available to soil microbial communities are cellular enzymes can be located within the EPS matrix in close
very heterogeneous in nature. The organic matter dissolved proximity to cells [41], thus reducing the diffusional loss of
in the soil solution (that which is the most available for both the enzyme and the product and increasing the likelihood
microbial use) consists of a variable collection of molecular that the products of the activity of these enzymes will benefit
species, with several thousand different formulae being readily the cells. EPS may in addition decrease the diffusion rates of