and urban Germans reflect their respective levels of air desensitization means that we are less able to detect and
quality, but none of these are nearly so extremely affected respond to such odours, even when they are present in the
as Mexico City. Our olfactory processing may be profoundly appropriate context.
sensitive to these environmental perturbations [71]. Indeed, The three ODD characteristics may also interact to further
we know that pollutants may not only affect the peripheral compound the overall effect. For example, reduced sensitivity
olfactory system through damage to the olfactory epithelium to odours via lack-of-practice effects may be exaggerated by
[72], but also processing within the olfactory bulbs [73]. bodily deodorization-reodorization. People may therefore

As a result of each of these influences, people in wester- have insufficient experience with natural body odours to
nized and industrialized societies might simply use the make the kinds of nuanced social judgements that we might
sense of smell to a lesser extent. In turn, they may be less observe in other societies or other species, even if they would
sensitive to odours through lack of exposure and lack of prac- otherwise have that potential in different cultural settings.
tice in responding appropriately to them. This is in line with Meanwhile, the fact that both these effects may be in operation
the argument that there is a strong cultural component to early in life might hide even further from view the role of odour
reliance on olfaction [74], and that was brought to explain in children’s development, perhaps especially at puberty when
markedly better odour-naming ability in hunter-gatherers the hygienic processes involved in deodorization—reodorization
compared with neighbouring horticulturalists who share a start to become a daily ritual [79].
similar language [39]. Lack-of-practice effects for body odours may perhaps be

If this argument has merit, then increased practice in further overlooked because we do continue to place value on
olfactory laboratory tasks should lead to improved perform- and attend to other kinds of common smells that are associated
ance. Earlier work reported evidence both for and against this with food, beverages or environmental hazards. Bearing in
claim, perhaps owing to widely variable methodologies. mind the odour-specificity in training effects noted above
However, a meta-analysis of 13 studies, all using a standar- [77,78, but see 76], even significant experience and expertise
dized form of testing and with a combined total of over 1000 with such other odours may not necessarily transfer to the