studies, successful fear induction was based on self-report

. . . } out, calling for additional objective indicators of sweat.
questions (e.g. more reported fear, anxiety) typically combined Supplementing prior research [25], we explored and
with one physiological endpoint, including—in the order quantified the ‘physical ground truth’ of sweat in terms of
of frequency—higher heart rate (AR), more armpit sweat pro- the number of molecules that are emitted (quantity of chemi-
duction, higher cortisol, higher skin conductance levels (SCL) cal composition), and how volatile quantity evolves over time
and higher respiratory rate (RR) (see [12], for a list of studies). (stimulus constancy versus decay). We used a photo-ioniz-
Occasionally, these variables produced inconsistent results. In ation detector (PID), which objectively detects the quantity
a small study (N=?) that recorded multiple physiologi cal end- of molecular volatiles. Aside from charting stimulus consist-
points (analysed in univariate fashion), scary videos elicited ency over time, the main question entails whether a higher
higher RR, but not higher HR, SCL and armpit sweat quantity dose of fear sweat is linked to more volatile molecules
[16]. In fact, no physiological variable was consistently higher . ; .

: : . being emitted by the sweat (dose-response relation).
during the sampling of fear sweat (the same applies to self-
reported fear: [10]), which underlines the insensitivity of a uni-

variate approach in determining fear experience, which (3) Hypotheses
produces a serious yet unnoticed challenge. The present research entails a novel combination of a
A promising alternative is provided by multivariate tech- multivariate classification technique (PLS-DA) and PID
niques that can quantify and classify emotion experience based measurements to answer the question whether the intensity
on a greater receptivity for coordinated autonomic nervous of a fear experience can be encoded in sweat. Buttressed by
system (ANS) activity and subjective emotion experience (e.g. prior research, we hypothesized a dose-response relationship
[15,20]). Such an approach of capturing the whole emotion between fear intensity experienced by encoders (quantified