were tested in groups, while adults were tested individually. It groups (e.g. children and adults). It should also be noted
is possible this led to weaker imagery ratings from children, that although questionnaires, such as the Psi-Q, are without
although the results showed no main effect of age on vividness question the most common way to assess imagery, this
of imagery, only a modality by age interaction. It seems unli- approach is far from ideal as it is subjective. Importantly,
kely that group testing would specifically have given rise to questionnaires, and especially those that use labels to elicit
weaker imagery for the chemical senses, as we find in this an odour image, are problematic as they cannot separate
study, but further testing is required to rule this out. As the odorant from the odour [95]. They also miss other com-
another consideration, the use of a visual example as the prac- plexities that separate olfaction from other senses such as
tice trial could have biased our data. We applied this approach vision. For example, whereas visual phenomena have been
because using a picture with vivid versus faded depictions of a analysed as being more objective, olfaction is said to be con-
banana was a practical and a concrete way to illustrate what strained, and not processed as an autonomous stimulus but
was meant by imagery vividness for young children. However, as highly dependent on the experiential context [96]. Even
we do not believe this fact can account for the pattern of data if there are better ways to assess odour imagery, such as com-
we see in our study because visual imagery was not the most paring imagined and real odour mixtures [72], these
vivid for children across the board. Finally, we believe it is unli- approaches are unfortunately too complex for children. How-
kely that potential differences in olfactory threshold between ever, using more objective measures of odour imagery might

children and adults underlie these results. Although studies capture developmental aspects that are otherwise hidden.


One way to target this could be to use imagery-triggered sali- Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.
vation with a naturalistic multimodal procedure commonly Funding. This work is part of the research programme Human olfaction

employed in consumer research, for example, pictures of at the intersection of language, culture and biology with project
which was financed by the Netherlands