

2 Challenge 1: beyond the axilla the odour of the head and of the axilla (for details of our El
. : methods, see electronic supplementary material). Young het-

Although many areas of the body produce a smell, most erosexual adults, of European descent and non-smokers, ©
studies on human chemical communication have investigated took part either as donors (N = 16 men and 16 women, includ- z
odours from the axilla. This can be explained in part by the ing 8 contraceptive pill users and 8 non-pill users) or as raters 3
belief that axilla has taken over the communication role (N= 16 men and 17 women, including 9 non-pill users and 8 Ss
from the anogenital region owing to the upright human pos- pill users). Donors followed a strict food/hygiene protocol =
ture [54], but also by cosmetic motives (necessity to and sampled the odour of their axilla and their head (face, S
understand the formation of malodours to better neutralize neck and scalp) over 6 days. Raters evaluated the attractive- ©
them), and by the fact that in adults, it is one of the most ness and intensity of opposite-sex odour samples on =
odorous body regions (richest in apocrine sweat glands) continuous scales, and described them by choosing the most = 5
and one of the easiest to collect (discreet sampling, limited appropriate terms among a list of both positive and negative = =
contamination by exogenous odours). Other odour sources, descriptors from a list of 22 items (electronic supplementary = >
largely ignored so far, may be relevant though. material, table S1). Qualitative variations can be described as __
For example, the perception of vaginal and breath odours a function of gender (figure 1a, descriptors highlighted by col- =:
has been occasionally investigated as a function of hormonal ours). Men’s odours were perceived as sweatier than female — 5!
status and gender. Vaginal odours were found to have lower samples (axilla and head), but also more fatty/oily (head). = >
intensity and unpleasantness during the late follicular phase Women’s axillary odours were more earthy /mouldy/musty =
(near ovulation) of female donors, compared to the other and smelled more like vomit than male samples, and their 3
phases of the menstrual cycle [55]. The authors, however, head odour was more floral, woody, heavy and mineral/ i]
raise some doubts regarding a possible function of vaginal metallic. Odour sources also differed (figure 1a, descriptors S
odours in attraction because they remained in the unpleasant highlighted by dots). Compared to axillary odour, head N