system would perform binding.

But, in a system that uses TPs for binding, the information the other word), or varied the similarity between nouns
that both cactus and penguin belong to the set of fuzzy and predicates as estimated by the cosine similarity between
things is not available during composition without an word2vec representations [37] of the words. We then applied
additional mechanism for tracking the binding relation a hierarchical model testing scheme that pitted the predic-
between fuzzy penguin and fuzzy and penguin (e.g., a function tions of a TP-based system against an asynchronous
that indicates which arguments (cactus, penguin) went into dynamic binding (ADB) system. We note that when both fil-
which TP (fuzzy cactus, fuzzy penguin), a look-up table with lers and roles are similar to each other, both models predict
that information or simply the knowledge of the modeller the same thing—maximal similarity as identity is
looking at the values in the network). Another consequence approached. The key prediction regards cases where the fil-
of a TP-based architecture without a tracking mechanism is lers and roles are not a priori similar to each other; TP
that binding information (viz., the fact that fuzzy penguin predicts these have (cosine) similarity of zero, ADB predicts
goes with fuzzy and penguin) is not available to other neurons they will be judged as similar despite constituent relative dis-
in the network during meaning composition; binding infor- similarity. Below, we present the methods of both
mation must be available to downstream neurons in order experiments 1 and 2 before discussing their results together.

for the system to maintain variable-value independence—
for the system to be functionally symbolic, and for the

behaviour of the system to align with that of humans. 2. Experiment 1: word similarity ratings
By contrast, in a binding system that maintains role—filler
independence, the similarity of x to itself is fixed, regardless (a) Participants
of what it is bound to. This makes the prediction that in Participants were recruited from the Max Planck Institute for
prickly penguin and fuzzy penguin, the representation of pen- Psycholinguistics participant pool. Twenty-one Dutch native