hippocampus. Hippocampal firing rates, however, predicted
the strength of the entorhinal reactivation. The authors inter-
preted this cascade of neural activity in the medial temporal
lobe as reflecting the basic ingredients of a pattern com-
pletion process: the hippocampus coordinates reactivation
of the encoded information in the (entorhinal) cortex.

ripples in the medial temporal lobe and the middle temporal (c) Reactivation of temporal context—neural contiguity
gyrus was increased during successful memory retrieval. While the studies described above focused on the reactivation
Immediately after the coupled ripples, increased similarity of content-specific information during memory retrieval, a
between encoding and retrieval broadband activity in the different approach to memory reactivation is investigat-
middle temporal gyrus indicated memory reactivation ing neural correlates of shifting temporal context. Studies
during successful retrieval. Another recent iEEG study sup- following this approach exploit the fact that contextual rep-
ports the importance of hippocampal ripples and memory resentations gradually change over time, that is, that events
reactivation for successful memory retrieval. Using a free that are in temporal proximity should share a more similar
recall paradigm, the authors show that the number of hippo- context than events that are far apart in time. Behaviourally,
campal high-frequency ripples (70-180 Hz) increased during this has been described as the contiguity effect during free
the successful encoding of visually presented items as well as recall, where items that were presented in temporal proximity
prior to their recollection [62]. Importantly, recollection was during encoding are also recalled in temporal proximity
accompanied by content-specific memory reactivation in [70,71]. In neural terms, this means that remembering an
visual areas, which in turn was coupled to ripple emergence. item would elicit brain activity associated with other items
These findings provide an important link of human awake presented in close temporal proximity. Such neural contiguity
memory reactivation to studies in rodents, while emphasiz- has been shown by Manning et al. [72] in electrocorticogra-
ing the functional role of hippocampal high-frequency phy recordings. The degree to which distributed patterns of
ripples in memory processes [57,58,60,63-65]. oscillatory activity was similar between items decreased