damage. Using the term pain (rather than nociception) for detect and respond to changes in the pH of an organism’s
non-mammalian species has produced rigorous discussion in environment, whereas presumably any cost to those organ-
the field owing to the debate over which organisms have the isms that do not display acid nociception is outweighed by
capacity for emotional processing, however, this is beyond the some other benefit. A phylogenetic summary depicting
scope of this article and has been reviewed elsewhere [17-19]. the evolution of nociceptors, acid nociception and different

In many species, nociceptors are polymodal, ie. they acid-sensors is illustrated in figure 2.
respond to multiple stimuli (e.g. heat, pressure and chemi- In humans, perhaps the first demonstration that acid
cals such as acid), owing to the expression of different evokes pain was from von Gaza and colleagues who reported
receptors. Polymodality has been determined using a range that pain and a change in the proton concentration were
of electrophysiological and imaging approaches, and recent common to inflammation, and that tissue alkalinization
single-cell RNA-sequencing studies show that sensory could reverse pain associated with abscesses [48]. Indeed,
neurons usually express a multitude of different receptors work in humans [49-52] and rodents [53] supports the fact
that confer polymodality and enable transcriptomic segre- that tissue acidosis occurs during inflammation, but equally
gation of sensory neurons into subtypes, whose function inflammation can occur in the absence of acidosis [54,55].
can be interrogated in vitro and in vivo [20-24]. In terms of the mechanisms by which acid causes pain, Krish-

Here, we will focus on proton-induced nociceptor acti- tal and colleagues were the first to demonstrate that protons
vation, others having previously reviewed sensory neuron could excite sensory neurons by evoking transient inward
mechanosensitivity [25-27] and thermosensitivity [28,29]. currents [56]. Subsequent analysis of various mammalian
Protons influence ion homeostasis and modulate enzyme nociceptors demonstrated that protons produce three main
activity, and thus organisms have evolved the ability to regu- types of excitation: transient inward currents (current inacti-
late extracellular and intracellular pH through membrane vation in the presence of protons), sustained inward
transporters and a range of proton buffering systems [30-32]. currents (continuous inward current in the presence of pro-
Expression of a range of proton-sensitive receptors, summar- tons) and mixed (both transient and sustained phases)