
. an schema rather than to this flat neo-Fregean logical representation [27,
presence of sound representations was detected during inner p. 54]. In fact, this turns out to be an apparent contradiction with
speech in non-acoustic areas preceding motor planning [51]. the neo-Fregean approach to predication adopted in the same text,
If the compositional derivation of predication proposed here following Rothstein [12].

cs . .
is correct, it implies that the neuronal structures underlying The canonical structure was analysed as analogous to a passive
wae . «ae construction like a picture of the wall was considered the cause of the riot:
syntax must be sensitive to the computation of symmetries;

. . . . the clausal constituent following the believe-type verb is named the
since symmetries are in fact one of the basic phenomena from ‘small clause’ (SC); fora finer grained distinction between small clauses

both a physical and a cognitive point of view, it is not inconcei- see Moro [13]. These two types are the only ones generated by the
vable that symmetry and symmetry-breaking phenomena may copula; more specifically, I am excluding that the copula is a
be encoded and computed ina physical medium. All in all, if predicate of identity: see Moro [13,30] for arguments in defence of =
the core of human language, namely the capacity to produce this hypothesis, =
8 5 7 y pa . P "The principle forcing movement in case of a symmetric structure is -
a sequence of words of which you can tell if ‘there is truth or technically called ‘Dynamic Antisymmetry’ since it was originally 5
falsity’, could be linked to the capacity of neuronal networks based on Richard Kayne’s [32] theory of antisymmetry of syntax. =
to recognize and manipulate symmetry our hope to decipher This theory assumes that the linear ordering of antisymmetric c-com- 5
the electrophysiological equivalent of this extraordinary mands and precedence are the same relation and it has deep = 5
capacity may not be only a dream. consequences on the entire architecture of syntax (see the original >
work by Kayne [32]; see also Cinque [33] for general remarks and a gen- XS