the problem of linearization is solved. An alternative interpretation of
the principle of Dynamic Antisymmetry is suggested in Moro [31]
based on a labelling algorithm and essentially implied by Chomsky
End notes [9]’s fn. 34: prototypically, a POS such as the one generated by sym-

‘Interestingly, the term ‘syntax’, corresponding to ‘composition’, has metrical merge of two phrases is unlabelled; movement of either
been used ever since the first reflections on human languages in the element solves the problem since the lower element cannot compete
Western tradition. The term defining the other compositional linguis- on labelling for it constitutes only one segment of the full chain (see
tic module of grammar, namely ‘semantics’, is much later since it was [15,34,35] for a reflection and an extension of the principle of Dynamic
proposed by Bréal at the end of the 19th Century [1]: for more Antisymmetry). Interestingly, the possibility to generate symmetrical
than two millennia, then, ‘syntax’ has practically exhaustively cov- structures could be regarded as the defining boundary between
ered compositional phenomena in language. syntax and morphology, explaining among other things why predica-
?In fact, all thematic roles are unambiguously implemented via con- tion cannot be instantiated by a single word (modulo, the generation
figurations. One of the consequences is that their number is limited, of phonologically empty pronouns and elliptical constructions [16];
for the number of configurations is inherently limited [7]. see also (él, for the role of symmetry in morphology, and [37]. ;
3Linear order may be different: so, for example, in Chinese and Japanese This is reminiscent of William’s [38] syntactic condition on predica-
the interrogative marker shows up at the end; nevertheless, there are tion as mutual m-command. That condition, though, was too strong
empirical reasons to assume that the structural periphery is higher since m-command affects all specifiers and complements of a given
than the thematic one in these languages also (see [8] for a discussion phrase. a - |

on structures with wh-operators which do not seem to move overtly). A challenging issue regards the conditions allowing a sentence to be

“The term recursion is borrowed from mathematics but in linguistics it a predicate. A pair like John told me what Mary read and This is what

has quite a different meaning; see Lobina [14] for an extensive and Mary read, for example, show that non-declarative sentences can