mental stimuli or infection, and diseases like cancer. As genic action. The potentially deleterious consequences of TE
reviewed by Torres-Padilla [15], TE transcriptional activation mobility place substantial pressure for the evolution of mech-
is pronounced during early development and seemingly anisms that ensure transcriptional silencing of TEs. Such
associated with the totipotent state, which raises the intriguing mechanisms can then be repurposed by the host to enact
possibility that some of this activity has been co-opted to regu- other key epigenetic events. For example, DNA methylation
late proper development. There is also growing evidence that is thought to have arisen to control the expansion of TEs
TEs are a common source of inducible regulatory elements that [24], yet it has become an important mark for mammalian
are activated in response to environmental stress or infection, gene regulation, essential for processes such as imprinting
suggesting they may facilitate adaptive evolution of these and X inactivation. In this issue, the Jacobs and Trono labs
responses. In this issue, Bourque and colleagues [16] identify explore the repurposing of another canonical TE silencing
TEs that show inducible regulatory activity upon bacterial pathway, which involves KZNFs and their co-repressor
infection in human cells, and a study by Gonzalez and col- interacting factor KAP1/TRIM28. Intriguingly, KZNFs
leagues [17] identifies TEs with regulatory activity induced remain well-conserved despite that fact that most of the
by insecticide exposure in Drosophila. Given the pervasive TE families targeted by them are no longer transpositionally
influence of TEs in diverse cell contexts, another key question competent. Jacobs and colleagues [25] hypothesize that this
is the extent to which unfixed transposons contribute to gene is because KZNFs have been repurposed for gene regu-
regulatory variation within populations. Using data from lation. They find that human KZNFs can bind gene
human lymphoblastoid and induced pluripotent stem cells promoters independently of the presence of TEs, seemingly
lines, Feschotte and colleagues [18] find evidence for numer- regulating time- and tissue-specific expression in the brain.
ous TE insertion polymorphisms that are linked to changes This includes gene activating roles, which contrast with
in gene expression. This suggests that TEs are an underappre- the canonical role of KZNFs as mediators of TE silencing.
ciated source of regulatory and phenotypic variation across One possibility is that these KZNFs are no longer bound
human individuals. Finally, while most studies examining TE by KAP1. Another possibility is that KAP1 itself may
cis-regulatory activity have focused on their potential promoter occasionally act as a positive transcriptional regulator.
or enhancer activity, Sundaram & Wysocka [19] review recent Trono and colleagues [26] explore this hypothesis, showing