a certain value. Thus, reversing the direction of explanation mation flows. However, this is very much indexed to the
would deem it non-explanatory, and the symmetry problem specific question being asked, and hence is a ‘local asymmetry’
will be blocked. that is captured by the perspectival criterion of topological
Moreover, in the horizontal mode, explanatory perspecti- explanations.
vism tends to figure prominently, as many ‘local asymmetries’ It should be noted that the actual wiring patterns of
figure prominently. Very roughly, explanation-seeking ques- course vary with particular complex systems; however, the
tions are relevant, in part, because they serve scientists’ explanation for why some signalling patterns are more effi-
interests. Often, the properties that interest scientists have asym- cient than other is based on underlying facts about the
metries that are highly specific to the phenomena they are counterfactual dependence between the topological proper-
studying. As an illustration, consider cases in which various ties (such as network navigation efficiency, diffusion
local features of brain networks determine certain behaviours efficiency and search information) and the network
or processes, e.g. asymmetry of information flow [34], or asym- dynamics. The explanation thus does not appeal to contin-
metry of topological organization of the auditory cortex [35]. gent facts about wiring in any particular system, but to
The asymmetry of information flow can be thought of in counterfactual dependency between topological properties
terms of the efficiency of network communication. Efficiency that determine network communication, and thus that

in this context is measured by shortest path lengths (the fewer holds independently from any particular system. The facticity


criterion, or the fact that the system instantiates a certain top- different explanandum, which is a consequence of the explana-

ology, only tells us why such an explanation is true of a tory perspectivism condition, i.e. that the kind of explanatory
particular system, but the explanatory force stems from the questions determine whether we use vertical or horizontal
counterfactual dependence between the topological proper- explanatory mode, in which case the explanation may as
ties (communication efficiency) and network dynamics well be causal.