
Gap] sorting complex

Figure 3. Clusters of nodes involved in amino acid biosynthesis and uptake (a) and tRNA modification and cell polarity and morphogenesis (6). Red (dark in black/white
version) edges represent negative epistatic interactions and green (light in black/white) edges positive epistatic interactions. In (a) dark green (dark in black/white)
Nodes are annotated for amino acid biosynthesis and uptake, while in (6) fuchsia (dark in black/white) for tRNA modification while pink (light in black/white) nodes are
annotated for cell polarity. Yellow nodes at bottom of (a), which lack GO characterizations, were included from the network in figure 2. From Costanzo et al. [41]. (Online
version in colour.)


those genes whose interaction profile exceeded the threshold hypothesis that they worked together in modifying specific | 6 |

of 0.2. If one visualized the resulting network prior to further tRNAs. The fact that nodes in the elongator complex and in
analysis, it would represent a giant hairball. the urmylation pathway exhibited similar edges to the three
As a first step towards interpreting the network, Costanzo clusters constituting the cell polarity and morphogenesis sub-
et al. assigned colour to nodes based upon annotations from network suggest they play roles in establishing polarity in
GO's biological processes ontology. The second step was to yeast cells. The researchers even advanced a hypotheses
employ an edge-weighted, spring-embedded layout algor- extending this finding beyond yeast: from the finding that sev-
ithm to situate nodes involved in the same biological eral of the genes in the elongator complex and the urmylation
process near each other. The third step was actually to demar- pathway regulate a specific set of cellular proteins, the
cate clusters. While the colouring suggests clusters to the researchers suggest that the human orthologue of ELP1,
human viewer, the researchers deployed the Markov cluster- IBKBAP, plays such a role in translation of specific genes,
ing algorithm and GINECA, a tool the researchers developed thereby offering an explanation of the fact that it is mutated =
for identifying partially overlapping clusters, to draw bound- in patients suffering the neurological disorder familial =
aries. These clusters are hierarchical related to individual dysautonomia. =