
Figure 7. Organization of the connectivity of the primate visual cortical system according to the architectonic type principle [30]. (a) Areas are arranged from higher types with
dense, well-differentiated layers on the outer rings of the diagram proceeding to lower type areas on the inner rings of the scheme. Types are indicated by the shading of the
rings, with lighter shading for higher and darker shading for lower types, as shown by the grey level scale. Connections, based on [2], between areas of the same or neighbour-
ing types are drawn in black, between areas separated by two types in blue, and projections between areas separated by more than two types are shown in red. The
predominance of black projections indicates the consistency of the structural model. (b) Comparison between average cortical hierarchy and structural types of the primate
visual system. Left, diagram adapted from [12]; right, structural types. While there are small apparent differences between these figures, the overall picture is quite similar. This
observation is owing to the fact that the architectonic type principle implies that structural type differences are correlated with laminar projection patterns, and, thus, the
structural type scheme underlies the hierarchical arrangement of areas resulting from the sorting of the oriented projections. Figure adapted from [69].

Here, we focused on four different uses, and thus, uses and meanings of the term can be discerned from the
meanings of the term ‘hierarchy’ (figure 8). This list should neuroscience literature. For instance, some studies and
not be considered exhaustive. In fact, we expect that further models treat hierarchy in terms of control between different


(a)

(b) (c)

sorting of laminar topological gradient of progression of

projection patterns projection sequence features scales
Figure 8. Overview of different concepts of ‘hierarchy’ in cortical brain networks as reviewed in the present paper. Depending on the chosen ‘hierarchy’ concept, the
arrangement of the areas may vary substantially, also leading to different expectations of their functional properties. This overview is not exhaustive, and further
notions of ‘hierarchy’ may be identified in the literature. (a) Sorting of areas by their ‘forward’ and ‘backward’ projections as classified from the laminar patterns of