Lorenz placed the question of the stability of dynamic systems an individual lies at another level. Restricting the observation s
and the role of measurements in prediction at the centre of the of a phenomenon to a certain resolution and a certain time 8
debate [4,5]. An intuitive condition for the prediction of a frame makes it possible to neglect those characteristics,
dynamic system’s evolution, in the context of imperfect knowl- which occur on smaller or larger scales, and to think of the
edge, is that small errors in the description of the system should world in terms of continuity and causal relationships. At
have only a small qualitative impact on our prediction. the level of a given observation, we know that inaccuracies

The question is thus as to whether systems with similar in the measurement will not have measurable, or at least sig-
descriptions evolve in similar ways. It has been shown that nificant consequences on our predictions within the chosen
for some dynamic systems, two states that may be arbitrarily window of observation.” Thus, although the main axiom of
close in terms of their description would give rise, in the prediction breaks down, although causes that seem identical
short or medium term, to radically different developments. to us do not necessarily produce similar effects, and although
This is called sensitivity to initial conditions. It is Lorenz's there are in fact never identical causes, every day we can have
famous butterfly effect [6], often misleadingly illustrated by experiences that seem to be somewhat causal, or to reflect a
the flapping of wings causing a tornado a few weeks later certain type of determinism.
on the other side of the world. It would be more accurate The significant operation on the part of the observer, by
to say that the flapping of butterfly wings is a partial cause neglecting certain causes, is to favour consciously or uncon-
of the tornado (or of its absence), which will owe just as sciously a specific level of observation—although we have
much to the air movement you provoked by blinking. One seen that she/he cannot do otherwise. It is both the process
great discovery of the 1960s was that dynamic systems that allows us to identify continuities in our environment,
which are sensitive to initial conditions, globally or locally and the origin of this occasional impression of radical ran-
(existence of singularities), are not pathological but rather domness. Here again, physics and formalisms convey
constitute the majority of all possible deterministic systems. valuable concepts characterizing these levels of observation.

Such systems are called chaotic systems. We have discussed the unpredictability of individual trajec-