term optimization. Innovations for the control of natural isms. [58,59]—a transition that seems to be more common
and artificial systems have appeared and spread across var- and faster than originally thought [60].
ious cultures: grow crops faster and protect them against This transition will lead to a rethinking of what human-
pests, prevent illness, move faster, etc. When integrated ity’s environment is. Global temperature, ocean
within a civilization,’ the diffusion of cultural innovations acidification, ice sheet and forest cover extents now depend
can be scale-up, leading to collective behavioural changes. on human activities. The ‘environment’, as we understand
Some civilizations developed these short-term optimizations it as individuals, is becoming a set of populations of alien
up to the point where their collective implementation dis- organisms that help humanity maintain its metabolism just
rupted the closures they were part of, inducing some like the many micro-organisms that populate our intestines.'° >
counter-productive effects’? and sometimes leading to the Our environment is being reduced by the new humanity- = 5
collapse of the civilization, as documented by Diamond [47]. organism to intestinal flora status. =
Cultural evolution is the evolutionary process shaping So, what would be the new ‘environment’ of this human- =
societies and civilizations on the long run. Whatever the para- ity-organism? The fact that an increasing number of people __
digm chosen to study cultural evolution (see [48], [49] or [44] dream of spatial conquest and new habitable planets might =
for reviews from different paradigmatic perspectives), civili- be a hint. However, for the moment, there is no planet 5!
zations have so far been thought to be able to evolve B. The humanity—organism is its own environment. a
independently of each other, even if some of them might Humanity, by becoming an ‘organism’, is becoming de =
interact. facto mortal. Cultural evolution as we used to think of it,is = &
But things are changing. Over the last century, cultural over. It will become more similar to a process of adaptation
evolution has considerably accelerated'® and the cultures and learning at the level of humanity that can lead to its dis- S
populating the Earth have developed in an ever-increasing appearance at any time. The new humanity-organism is N
interdependent way"*: various phenomena that used to be alone on its evolutionary path and we can ask ourselves if &
restricted to part of the world like epidemics or economic we can afford to have it guided by random trials and &
crisis now spread across the globe through global exchange errors, or even by an ‘invisible hand’!” focusing on ‘local’ *
networks; the path taken by a single country can affect all reasoning. The kinds of collective cognition and behaviours