epistemological framework, perfect knowledge of the world identification of structures depends on the scale of the obser-
becomes a horizon for human intelligence which, although it vation. There is nothing more chaotic than a gas at the =
cannot be attained, can at least be asymptotically approached. microscopic scale. And nothing more regular than a gas at = 5
If we could determine the state of the world at a given moment the macroscopic scale, which provides the perfect example =
with certainty, randomness would be eliminated and mankind of isotropy. Therefore, the problem is not necessarily that of = >
would fully understand its future. knowing whether a system is deterministic or stochastic, Ss

How does contemporary physics interpret this notion of but rather that of knowing within what time frame, with = =
determinism? While it is undeniable that a better description what spatial resolution, and for what purposes, it is studied. =
of the world allows us to understand it better, our approach This is a general feature of modelling that we naturally = =
to the question of predictability has changed radically. adopt in our daily relationships with the world. The world =

The first remarkable fact that can be noted in the recent his- around us is infinitely complex, because it has structureson = &
tory of physics is the distinction that has developed between all scales. We are composed of cells, almost all of which are =
determinism and predictability. In the last century, the work renewed every few weeks. This does not prevent us from S
of mathematicians such as Henri Poincaré’ or Edward recognizing a friend on the street. For us, the continuity of N
Lorenz placed the question of the stability of dynamic systems an individual lies at another level. Restricting the observation s
and the role of measurements in prediction at the centre of the of a phenomenon to a certain resolution and a certain time 8
debate [4,5]. An intuitive condition for the prediction of a frame makes it possible to neglect those characteristics,
dynamic system’s evolution, in the context of imperfect knowl- which occur on smaller or larger scales, and to think of the
edge, is that small errors in the description of the system should world in terms of continuity and causal relationships. At
have only a small qualitative impact on our prediction. the level of a given observation, we know that inaccuracies

The question is thus as to whether systems with similar in the measurement will not have measurable, or at least sig-
descriptions evolve in similar ways. It has been shown that nificant consequences on our predictions within the chosen