the bookkeeping objection. the invisibility objection seems to deny causal mediation, the
Actually, the bookkeeping objection never seemed very genetic relativity argument appears to reject the role of another
compelling in the first place for several reasons. First, just linchpin of causal analysis: causal moderation or causal inter-
about everyone agrees that a gene-centred approach is action. The whole thrust of the modern enterprise of causal
necessary to understand selfish genetic elements like transpo- analysis, summarized by Pearl [42], is about extending the
sons or meiotic drivers. But how Gould’s ‘central logical flaw’ causal viewpoint of path analysis to non-additive interactions.
of bookkeeping is avoided in this case has never been Heterozygote superiority is often used as an example of
explained. Second, the objection can also be applied to the how the gene’s eye view is supposedly thwarted by genetic
individual-level models offered as alternatives. Take the fre- relativity [10]. Under extreme heterozygote superiority, where
quently discussed case of heterozygote advantage, a case of homozygotes have zero fitness, an equilibrium gene frequency
strong non-additivity at the single-locus level. When this is of one half will be attained because only heterozygotes survive.
modelled at the individual level by positing three fitnesses, Sober & Lewontin [10] argue that the genic view will get that
Waa, Waa and W,a, we still have average fitnesses experi- but will miss the fact that the population fluctuates between
enced, in this case by three genotypes, that give an genotypic frequencies of 0, 1, 0 just after selection to 1/4, 1/
adequate prediction but not an adequate causal explanation 2, 1/4 just after heterozygotes separate. But this is comparing
if there are any additional non-additivities or correlated apples and oranges. It compares a genotypic model that
effects. Compared to a simplest genic average excess model includes transmission effects and a genic one that does not.
(but not the one developed here), the individual-level Genic models can certainly incorporate transmission effects
model does account for one additional causal factor: domi- like segregation when desired [46]. But it can also be useful
nance. But it is still averaging over effects for each of the to deploy Fisher’s second sword and focus on the selective,
three genotypes and so it is still just keeping the books on adaptive parts of the evolutionary process, as seems reasonable
other causal effects. Of course, when these additional causal when considering units of selection.
effects are known or posited, they can be incorporated into In sum, the inclusion of a limited number of co-replicators
the individual model, but also, as shown above, into a and co-interactors allows for a causal gene’s eye view that
