the parallel assumption for genetic evolution is generally safer work, then the rhetorical grip of the genes—culture analogy is

[24]. The operation of selection could only be identified, in the loosened; cultural evolution is just like genetic evolution

cultural domain, if cultural fitness and hence its covariance except that the design-like properties mostly arise for a

with trait values could actually be measured. This is not straight- different reason. I return to this issue in §4.

forward, since identifying and quantifying cultural influence
are not nearly as simple as counting genetic offspring, which

evolutionary biologists do routinely (see §4 and [12,24]). (b) When does culture produce genetic adaptation?
The fact that non-random cultural change might represent There is a Manichaean tendency within the cultural evolution
transmission or selection, or any combination of the two, has literature. On the one hand, it is clearly understood that cul-
been well made before [31]. However, the Price equation, with tural fitness is to do with one’s ability to influence the
its separation of change into two additive terms on the right- cultural contents of minds in the future generation, and as
hand side, makes it particularly clear what the driving forces such has nothing necessarily to do with number of biological
are. In historical case studies (e.g. [32]), it is easier to detect direc- offspring. On the other hand, it is often asserted that culture
tional cultural change than it is to definitely assign it to either is an adaptive capacity, and that through it humans have
selection or transmission. There are only a few cases where been able to survive and proliferate better than they otherwise
researchers have designed paradigms that isolate one force. For would. This implies that researchers believe cultural evolution-
example, one can compare MacCallum’s [26] public music ary processes can have an impact on genetic fitness. The Price
choice experiment, which allowed selection among computer- equation is useful for specifying under what conditions this
generated tunes but no average transmission bias, with will happen.
Ravignani and Delgado’s transmission experiment, which A simple way of doing this is to construct a trait g that