phenotypic trait, the change in the mean of the trait from one genetic covariance between a trait and fitness is thus more typi-
time point to another can be written as the sum of two com- cally considered in relation to predicting change from one
ponents: the first owing to variation in fitness, which is the generation to the next, because this is a larger question in
effect of selection changing the contributions from individuals which both evolutionary biologists and animal breeders are
of different trait values, and the second owing to changes in the more likely to be interested. However, doing so is a much
expression of the trait over the time-step (which may be for var- greater challenge for studies of natural systems experiencing
ious reasons, such as imperfect transmission or phenotypic natural selection on multivariate phenotypes and environ- :
plasticity) [1,2,6,7]. Although the Price equation is usually con- mental heterogeneity, not least because it requires analysis of | 5
sidered in the context of describing change across generations, it individuals’ total lifetime fitness. Here, we consider only the = =
is also equally valid for considering change within a generation, contribution of a single episode of selection to phenotypic >
for example owing to variation in survival—and even just to and genetic change, and hence the application of the Price Ss
variation in survival of a particular life-stage, or episode of equation to analysing within-generation change. Doing so is = =:
selection [2]. This application to a single episode of selection possible because of the convenient fact that the Price equation = S'
is obviously considerably simpler to analyse as there is no applies to any time-frame, and so does not require consider- >
‘transmission phase’. The Price equation then reduces to its ation of total lifetime fitness: we are not attempting a full =
first term, and simply asks: how does variation in survival of description of observed cross-generational changes in pheno- = &
a particular episode of selection change the mean of a trait? For- type. This is not a new point, but it is one that maybe often =
mally, the first term of the Price equation thus specifies the gets overlooked in the ambition to consider total evolutio- >
change in the mean of the trait, AZ, owing to selection as nary change. We show here that it is challenging enough to N
Az = Sp = op(z,v), (1.1) address the relatively modest aim of considering only within- s
generation change owing to an episode of viability selection a
where Sp is a selection differential and op(z,w) is the covariance of a single trait.
between the phenotypic trait z and relative fitness w [1] The process of estimating the additive genetic covariance
(we use a subscript P here to denote phenotypic values, to can also provide useful insights into the operation of selection
distinguish from what follows). via a component of fitness [4,11]. We assume we are dealing