in the previous section, these extended quantitative genetic The two previous perspectives on heredity have incommon = S'
models can be used to study how non-genetic inheritance that they treat heredity and development as if they were = =
affects the ability of populations to track environmental separable; the inheritance of phenotypes and the generation =
change, the rate and direction of phenotypic change, and of phenotypic variation can be considered as if they were 8
stable evolutionary states. How strong the effects are will two different processes. Screening off development can be =
depend on how the non-genetic effects contribute to additive desirable not only because developmental processes are >!
and non-additive sources of phenotypic variance. As a result, highly complex, but also because assuming there are no N
it becomes an important empirical task to partition the total biases in the introduction of variation can make it easier to s
additive and non-additive phenotypic variance into its com- grasp how fitness differences contribute to evolutionary &
ponents. This does not necessarily require empirical change [13,58]. Nevertheless, because development is the
assessment of transmissibility of variants, but the additive process by which phenotypic variants appear, it cannot be
non-genetic variance can be estimated from phenotypic screened off completely if the aim is to understand biological
data using pedigrees and experimental designs that decouple evolution. In fact, it is possible to consider parent-offspring
different causes of phenotypic covariance between offspring similarity (ie. heredity) as the outcome of the reconstruction
and their biological parents (e.g. [45]). First, partitioning of of life cycles in consecutive generations, which means that
phenotypic variance into different sources of additive var- heredity is a phenomenon which requires a developmental
iance is possible through ‘double’ pedigrees where, for explanation [11,59]. Two important features of this heredity-
example, the cultural, environmental and genetic inputs to as-developmental-process perspective are that inheritance
phenotypes are teased apart in complex breeding and cross- does not need to be conceptualized as transmission, and
fostering designs [46,47]. Second, the logic of how animal that it does not a priori assign greater causal relevance to
models—a tool for studying quantitative genetics of wild some parent-offspring relations than others (see [9] for
populations—deal with maternal, social and shared environ- further discussion).
mental effects [48,49], can be extended to include similarity The Price equation can be used to illustrate why this
matrices that also allow estimating additive effects of epige- developmental perspective on heredity is relevant to under-
netic and social inputs to the phenotype [50]. For the stand evolution. In a series of papers, Rice [39,60,61] has