quantitative genetics (or evolutionary genetics in general) body of work is well aligned with a developmental perspec-
can be studied in experimental systems where some of the tive on heredity.

sources of parent offspring similarity are manipulated. For The main advantage of Rice’s approach is that it allows
example, in inbred or clonal lines [52], mutant strains the offspring phenotype and fitness to be unknown at the
deficient in certain epigenetic mechanisms, or treatments time of reproduction and hence be random variables. This
that erase methylation marks or increase mutation rates [53] means that the entities of interest have distributions and
can be effective in revealing how epigenetic inheritance con- that the equations for evolutionary change need to track
tributes to heredity. both individual values and the distribution of those values.

The empirical challenges involved in adapting these This has several benefits [39]. First, it emphasizes the role of
approaches mean there are still few studies that quantify both the relationship between genotype and phenotype (the
additive non-genetic variance, despite the fact that epigenetic genotype-phenotype map) and the relationship between
inheritance and social learning are now recognized as impor- phenotype and fitness in analyses of evolutionary change.
tant in a very wide range of organisms (e.g. [54,55]). Perhaps Second, it allows consideration of the full shape of the off-
the most comprehensive studies have been done using the spring—parent distribution, ic. moments other than the mean.
model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The reason for this is that As explained above, it is standard in quantitative genetics
plants can be generated that have very low DNA sequence to rely on only a single feature of the offspring—parent pheno-
variation but a substantial variation in DNA methylation, type distribution, namely the linear slope of regression or
which means that the additive genetic variance can be care- additive heritable variance. However, this is only accurate

fully controlled. Growing these plants in a greenhouse under very specific circumstances that commonly do not


apply even under a purely genetic model [62]. Rice’s Second, to understand which features of development are