ticipants as a function of the odourant we used to taint the

8. When humans sniff their hands they are also experimenter, and all this despite using subliminal levels
’ of odour (figure 9a). This further verifies the olfactory ori-

smelling who their hands touched gins of this behaviour and, in our view, serves not only to
After observing the extent of human hand-sniffing, it mitigate, but potentially to reverse our initial concern
occurred to us that this behaviour may provide information regarding this merely being a reflection of displacement be-
not only regarding one’s own body, but also regarding the haviour. In using the term ‘reverse’, we mean that not only
bodies of others. Indeed, in the previously described exten- do we think that the behaviour we observed is chemosignal-
sive hand-sniffing in primates (figure 10c), the animals ling and not displacement behaviour, but moreover, we
typically mix between merely sniffing their own hands spon- suspect that many of the previous reports of displacement
taneously, or sticking their fingers within bodily orifices behaviour may in fact reflect chemosignalling. As to the
(often the nostrils) of conspecifics and then carefully sniffing counterintuitive within-sex versus cross-sex dissociation, it
their own hand [19]. Humans obviously touch each other was very powerful (ANOVA, three-way interaction: Fy77=
within the context of close relationships, but they also touch 37.79, p<0.0001), yet we have no strong theoretical hypoth-
complete strangers: handshaking is a common introductory esis for it. We speculate that whereas sniffing the shaking
greeting ritual in the West and beyond [20,21]. We therefore hand provides information about the conspecific in question,
set out to test in our previous study [12] the hypothesis sniffing the non-shaking hand provides comparative infor-
that handshaking subserves social chemosignalling. We first mation on self (more about this in §9). We do not know,
used gas-chromatography mass-spectrometry (GCMS) to however, why one would want to increase this type of infor-
test whether the brief contact of a handshake is sufficient mation on same-sex conspecifics rather than on cross-sex

to transfer volatile organic compounds from one hand to conspecifics and can only speculate that the sex interaction
