particle-based approach: it belongs to the family of discrete interactions [33].
methods being characterized by the fact that each agent is The analysis and classification of the collective motion of
individually represented by a material point, whose velocity identical interacting particles is also the topic of the well-
varies according to an ordinary differential equation. Our known Vicsek’s model [34]. In particular, it assumes that
general model (that is not referred to a particular species) rea- flocking phenomena are owing to alignment mechanisms,
listically distinguishes between individual speed and with uncertainties arising from a random contribution in
direction of motion. The former is in fact typically established individual velocity. This approach is then extended in [35]
by the purpose of movement and/or by physiological limit- with the introduction of a Lennard-Jones-type potential to
ations, the latter results instead from the competition represent repulsive and attractive dynamics. Interestingly,
between different behavioural stimuli, mainly coming from each velocity contribution is therein weighted by a parameter
the environment and from interagent interactions. In this that, at variance with our work, can independently vary in R.
respect, we here account for repulsion, attraction and align- Another difference with respect to our model relies on
ment inputs that are active in non-overlapping individual the fact that the extension of the interaction regions are
neighbourhoods. Escape strategies are also included in the significantly small so that the particles interact strictly locally.
case of heterogeneous systems, i.e. formed by a predator The influence of a hunter on group collective dynamics is
chasing a group of prey. Remarkably, each of the considered deeply investigated by particle-based models as well. For
behavioural stimuli is here simply defined by an orientation instance, in [20], each prey is assumed to be subjected to an
(unit) vector and a weight, which is correlated to an individual increasingly linear attraction towards groupmates and to a
preference. A constraint on the sum of the weights is finally hyperbolic repulsion both towards groupmates and towards
given to avoid simultaneous minimization/maximization of the predator. The cohesive term and the velocity component
all individual movement traits. relative to hunter avoidance are multiplied by coefficients
Our model is not completely new: rather, it combines and varying in R*, whereas the repulsion between prey individ-
modifies at various extents concepts and ingredients already uals has a constant unitary weight. Predator dynamics are
present in the literature. More specifically, focusing on the then completely determined by an attraction term which
similarities and differences of our mathematical framework has a hyperbolic or a more than hyperbolic law. In particular,