model is then extended in [38] by including an additional according to a hierarchy of behavioural preferences (i.e. it is
escape rule with the same mathematical structure as the not allowed to maximize/minimize the response to all move-
other three classical contributions. Further, Delgado-Mata ment inputs); and (v) the simplicity of our method allows us
and coworkers multiply each velocity component by a to provide not only numerical but also analytical insights.
factor that accounts for the emotional state of the animals Structure of the work. The rest of the paper is then orga-
(e.g. fear). Also in this case, the velocity vector of each nized as it follows. In ยง2, we will present the mathematical
agent establishes its speed. framework. Section 3 will show the model ability to repro-

In the work by Couzin and colleagues [21,39], the velocity duce and classify collective movement and patterning of an
of each individual is instead defined by a constant speed and an animal population emerging from different individual behav-
orientation unit vector, exactly as in our approach. However, ioural preferences. Section 4 will then focus on a coupled
the direction of movement is determined in a slightly different analytical/numerical study of the equilibrium configurations
way. In fact, a generic agent, characterized by an anisotropic of our animal system when subjected only to attractive and
visual cone, is set to be subjected only to repulsion if it detects repulsive interactions. A possible model extension accounting
another mate within its avoidance region. Otherwise, it is set for the presence of a predator which impacts on group
to be subjected to both attraction and alignment towards the dynamics will be proposed and investigated in ยง5. Finally,
groupmates falling within the corresponding interaction some hints for further applications and future developments
areas: in this case the resultant orientation vector is given by of our approach will be given in the conclusive ยง6.

the mean of the two contributions. Perturbations are employed
by modifying the direction of movement at a randomly chosen
extent: however, an agent is not allowed to undergo a complete

2. Mathematical model
