tions. The predator is initially placed at a significant which is therefore facilitated in its purpose (see the left-
distance from the cluster of individuals, however with at bottom panel in figure 5). Increasing differences between
least a prey within its hunting region, i.e. Niq9(f = 0) # 0. prey preference for interagent avoidance and the other behav-
Furthermore, the initial orientation of the hunter points to ioural stimuli reduce the time needed by the predator to reach
the centre of mass of the group of targets (figure 2c). The a target, as captured by the central plot in figure 7b. Also in
predator is finally assumed to catch a target when their this case a threshold value for f, emerges, which is close to
relative non-dimensional distance drops below 10°. 3. The confused predator is instead not able to take advan-
The dynamics of the heterogenous system are then tage of this prey phenomenology, as captured by the inset
numerically studied upon variations of (i) predator hunting i3 in figure 5.
strategy and (ii) hierarchy of prey behavioural preferences The prey group safely moves away from both types
which are quantified, as seen, by the weights a”, being of predator when they are able to synchronize their move-
() € {rep, align, attr, escape}. In particular, we hereafter ment, regardless of their spacing and escape stimulus (ie.
focus on representative cases characterized by the fact that aélisn > qtep = g@tt™ — a Pe), see top panels in figure 6. In
one (or more) prey behavioural stimuli significantly over- fact, as soon as some individuals within the population are
come the others. With the terminology ‘significantly able to perceive the presence and the location of the predator,
overcome’, we arbitrarily mean that the corresponding they start to evade in the opposite direction: such information
a-value(s) is (are) at least twofold higher than the others. is then quickly transmitted to the rest of group and allows all
The resulting simulation outcomes are then analysed qualitat- animals to behave accordingly. Such a collective phenomen-
ively (ie. in terms of prey escape strategies) and ology represents an example of coordinated defence
quantitatively (ie. in terms of time needed by the predator mechanism.
to eventually reach a target individual, hereafter defined as A coupling between sufficiently high escape and attrac-
f)). A numerical realization is finally stopped either as soon tion stimuli (i.e. a®P* = a >> af = a8") is detrimental
as the predator catches a prey or at f = 2000, i.e. at a suffi- for prey in the case of a not confused predator. The tendency
ciently long time to have a clear idea of the system dynamics. to remain somewhat compact in fact delays the evasive strat-
As shown in figure 5, when the prey agents are mainly egy: in particular, some individuals fall behind the rest of the