() € {rep, align, attr, escape}. In particular, we hereafter ment, regardless of their spacing and escape stimulus (ie.
focus on representative cases characterized by the fact that aélisn > qtep = g@tt™ — a Pe), see top panels in figure 6. In
one (or more) prey behavioural stimuli significantly over- fact, as soon as some individuals within the population are
come the others. With the terminology ‘significantly able to perceive the presence and the location of the predator,
overcome’, we arbitrarily mean that the corresponding they start to evade in the opposite direction: such information
a-value(s) is (are) at least twofold higher than the others. is then quickly transmitted to the rest of group and allows all
The resulting simulation outcomes are then analysed qualitat- animals to behave accordingly. Such a collective phenomen-
ively (ie. in terms of prey escape strategies) and ology represents an example of coordinated defence
quantitatively (ie. in terms of time needed by the predator mechanism.
to eventually reach a target individual, hereafter defined as A coupling between sufficiently high escape and attrac-
f)). A numerical realization is finally stopped either as soon tion stimuli (i.e. a®P* = a >> af = a8") is detrimental
as the predator catches a prey or at f = 2000, i.e. at a suffi- for prey in the case of a not confused predator. The tendency
ciently long time to have a clear idea of the system dynamics. to remain somewhat compact in fact delays the evasive strat-
As shown in figure 5, when the prey agents are mainly egy: in particular, some individuals fall behind the rest of the
subjected to the escape stimulus (ie. aS*P° >> a™P = group and are unable to avoid the attack of the focused
a@lign — attr), they are able to avoid the attack of both hunter. In such a parameter regime, increments of the differ-

confused and not confused predators. In particular, they ence between the pair of more relevant stimuli and the others


confused predator not confused predator insets

= 400 os 400 . 20 =, il
s
" ea) il ~