0 0.99994 0.99998 1 a
ep =
Figure 4. (a(i)) In the absence of the alignment velocity component, the set of permitted values of the weights as (ie. those satisfying constraint (2.3)) defines R
the segment s, reproduced by the line. (a(ii)) The H-stability condition of the repulsive/attractive velocity contributions divides s in two segments, i.e. 5; (i= 1, 2), o
identifying distinct asymptotic behaviour of the animal group, as provided in Theorem 4.1. In particular, if the values of ep and cat Satisfy condition (4.5) (or its a
non-dimensional counterpart (4.7)), then the system does not collapse but stabilizes in a large-time equilibrium configuration characterized by finite and positive
interindividual distances. (b) Large-time system patterns (taken at ¢ = 2000) resulting from two representative pairs of coefficients or's (one for each subregion). 3
Again, the quantity Gin is introduced in Definition 3.1. (Online version in colour.) &
The coupling between the analytical and the numerical which is actually active if [xi — X1o0(6)| < descape, being descape
results proposed in this section allows therefore to conclude set equal to dattr, See again figure 2a. The term in equation
that, in the absence of the alignment velocity component, (5.2) is indeed a long-range repulsive contribution because it
an asymptotic well-spaced configuration of the system is enters the picture as soon as the predator falls within the
a priori assured by H-stable repulsive/attractive kernels, visual region of the ith prey. We in fact recall that the exten-
ie. by pairs of weights (a, a") satisfying condition (4.7). sion of the attraction region can be interpreted as an
It is finally useful to remark that, as far as we know, a similar individual gaze depth. The weights of the behavioural stimuli
study has been never done in the case of interaction poten- included in equation (5.1) have finally to satisfy constraint
tials characterized by constraints and interdependence (2.3), ie.
between the characteristic parameters. -
a) + a8") + af" + a P°A) = 1, (5.3)
. for any particle i=1,...,99 and time f.
5. Prey—predator dynamics: model and results The dynamics of the predator are described by a first-
We now incorporate heterogeneity in the animal system by order model as well, under the assumption that it is only
introducing the presence of a single predator, labelled by subjected to the hunting stimulus. In mathematical terms,
the identification number i= 100 (so that the overall number Jio0 = {predation} while, in the usual non-dimensional
of agents remains unaltered). In this respect, the remaining form, equations (2.1) and (2.2) can be rewritten as