
Figure 2. (a) Cell phenotypes and relative transitions regulating proto-neuromast formation, maturation and deposition. The black dashed arrow remarks that the
three-step pseudo-mesenchymal-to-epithelial transitions (LPM — pE — E) in the central box occur only around an activated individual (i.e. they are triggered by
the transition PM — aPM). (b) Typical regions of expression of the SDF1a receptors during primordium migration. The expression of the non-migratory receptor
Cxcr7 is always confined in the most rostral edge of the primordium (i.e. the rostral lighter area). The rest of the placode, as well as all aPM, express the migratory
receptor Cxcr4 (see the middle grey areas). Cxcr7-expressing cells sequester a higher amount of SDF1a (see the dark grey rectangle) than Cxcr4-expressing agents
[11,13,16]. (c) Typical pattern of FGF10 during primordium migration. It is secreted by PM individuals at the caudal edge of the primordium and by aPM cells at the
centre of proto-neuromasts (see the coloured regions), while all other individuals express the receptor fgfr7 [5,11,16]. (Online version in colour.)

PM — aPM transitions are triggered by unknown stimuli, and affinity to their ligand, results in a self-generated local gradient of
that the formation and maturation of proto-neuromasts regulate SDFla underlying the placode. A cyclical behaviour is finally
the location of both FGF10 sources and the region of expression exhibited by the placode cluster: the assembly of a new rosette
of Cxcr4/Cxcr7 within the primordium, see figure 2b,c. towards its caudal edge is in fact accompanied by the deposition

The embryonic development of the zebrafish PLL is mainly of the most rostral one. This process is active until 46 hpf,
regulated by two diffusive chemicals. SDFla, produced by the ie. when the primordium reaches the tip of embryo’s tail and
cells constituting the myoseptum substrate, forms around 20 stops, and eventually results in the deposition of 6-8 proto-
hpf a homogeneous narrow stripe and represents an exogenous neuromasts, organized in a quite regular pattern along the
chemotactic cue for Cxcr4 expressing individuals only (i.e. PMs, trunk of the developing zebrafish, as sketched in figure 1b.
aPMs and dPMs). In this respect, the non-migratory-related We finally remark that proliferation is fundamental to have
receptor Cxcr7 (expressed by pEs and Es) has an antagonistic a sufficient cell supply for rosette formation and deposition.
effect against Cxcr4, owing to its enhanced affinity (estimated Furthermore, regardless of the dynamics and phenotypic tran-
ten times higher). FGF10 is instead a placode endogenous sub- sitions, each component cell maintains an almost round
stance which mainly plays as a short-range chemotactic cue for morphology over time.
