substantially higher in the mutant (figure 4d). Expressed in a plementary material, figure $4), which exhibited somewhat
different manner, the average chloroplast in cotyledon cells comparable greening defects. Relative to WT, ppil showed
carried a similar number of copies of the cpDNA in a reduction in the expression of PEP-transcribed genes in
WT and cue8, 31 and 26, respectively (cue8 cells contain a seedlings and very young leaves, while an elevation of
slightly elevated number of chloroplasts). Indeed, DAPI NEP-driven transcripts was observed only in seedlings. By
fluorescence-staining of DNA showed that mutant plastids contrast, tocl32 tocl20/+ showed a consistent elevation of
were packed with nucleoids, which appeared much more NEP-driven transcripts in seedlings and very young leaves.
dispersed in WT chloroplasts (figure 4a,b). For PEP-driven transcripts, there was no change (young
Given the parallels between the expression of NEP- leaves) or an actual elevation (seedlings) in that genotype
or PEP-encoded genes in cue8 and that at early stages of (figure 5d; electronic supplementary material, figure S4).
undisturbed chloroplast development, we asked whether Expression levels of the PEP-controlling sigma factors or the
the elevated content of cpDNA in cue8 chloroplasts in spite NEP genes themselves broadly followed these patterns
of their undeveloped state was in fact simply a common fea- (figure 5e; electronic supplementary material, figure S4). Over-
ture of developing chloroplasts. To carefully address this, we all, it appears both genotypes can exhibit the ‘compensatory’
quantified cpDNA in developing WT seedlings, beginning elevation of NEP and NEP-driven expression, although
from stages shortly after germination, in which cotyledons to different extents at different stages, and loss of primarily
are barely emerging and greening (electronic supplemen- ‘housekeeping’ proteins in chloroplasts triggers it more consist-
tary material, figure S3a—d). We found that the numbers of ently. Accordingly, the loss of ppil had a greater impact on the
copies of cpDNA per haploid genome were strikingly con- loss of the representative PhANG and of its corresponding
stant (electronic supplementary material, figure S3e), from GLK drivers (figure 5f).
very early stages, demonstrating that the accumulation of The elevated NEP-driven transcription in seedlings
the chloroplast genome is a very early event in chloroplast was, once again, made possible in these plastid-impaired
development. However, as seedlings developed, and due to genotypes by the maintenance of number of cpDNA
the expansion of cotyledon cells and concomitant endoredu- copies (figure 6a), something for which a mild elevation of
plication (electronic supplementary material, figure S3a—d,f), expression of POLIB may have contributed to in ppil