transcript level in the double than in cue8 (something associ- by the loss of CUES8 at two selected mRNAs: rpoC1, pre-
ated with the much more pronounced plastid defect, but viously shown to have increased incidence of editing in
surprising for plants carrying the gun1 mutation), while the plastid-defective conditions, and ndhB, showing the opposite
PhANG-driving GLKs were as reduced (figure 7d). We con- response [17]. Indeed, the loss of CUES8 led to a higher fre-
clude that either GUN1 plays no role in the retrograde quency of editing in rpoCl and lower at three of the four
repression of PhANGs in cue8, or that the cue8 mutation sites of ndhB (figure 9), in line with the effects of other plastid
itself impairs the action of GUN1. defects [17]. GUN1 was not required for these changes; in

The fact that expression of NEPs is elevated in the fact, the efficiency of editing further increased for rpoCl
double mutants (figure 7c), but the expression of NEP- and further decreased for ndhB transcripts in the cue8 gun1
driven transcripts in their chloroplasts is not (figure 7b), double mutant (figure 9). Thus, we confirm that changes in
also raises an apparent paradox. The paradox is resolved plastid mRNA editing occur in cue8, but surprisingly we
by the fact that cue8 gun1 double mutants fail to sustain observe no role for GUN1 in such changes.

cpDNA replication, as demonstrated by their levels of
cpDNA copies per haploid genome being only half those
of single mutants or the WT (figure 8a). In the double,

expression of POL1B was still elevated, but that of WHY1, 4. Discussion

which encodes an abundant nucleoid protein [29,30], was The nuclear gene expression defects of cue’ were previously
not (figure 8b). In summary, it appears some aspects of found to be specific to PhANGs [12,23]. At face value one
the chloroplast ‘corrective’ response (elevated transcripts of would have expected cpDNA-encoded genes to also be equally
the NEPs and of the organellar DNA POL, in addition to broadly reduced in expression. This, to our initial surprise, was
the decrease of those of PhANGs) are maintained even in not the case; we saw a reduced expression of PEP-transcribed