Figure 1. Establishment of retrograde control during the evolution of eukaryotes. The diagram depicts the major steps in the evolutionary acquisition of mito-
chondria and plastids by eukaryotes. Rectangles represent endosymbiotic host cell or eukaryotic host cell, respectively. Ovals represent bacterial ancestors and
resulting endosymbionts as well as final plastids. Final mitochondria are represented by small icons with brown outer and blue inner membrane. DNA of endo-
symbionts is represented by blue circles and gene transfer to the nucleus by black arrows. The reduction of coding capacity is indicated by the reduced size of
DNA-representing circles. Continuous light-blue arrows: anterograde signalling. Broken light blue arrows: retrograde signalling. Large connecting arrows in grey,
green and red represent the evolutionary lines. Yellow circles represent the respective import machineries. Note that retrograde signalling from mitochondria
was likely to be established when plastids evolved. Basic principles should have been conserved in the different evolutionary lines. Further evolution of mitochondrial
Tetrograde signals in autotrophs, however, was probably influenced by the presence of plastids (double-headed arrow, ‘interaction?’). In heterotrophs, other influ-
ences such as multicellularity and tissue context may have generated different evolutionary constraints. In Rhodophyta (pink box) and Chlorophyta (green box),
mitochondria, plastids and the nucleus developed triangular signalling networks.


targeting when encoded in the nucleus [17]. In fact, it has Zz

been proposed that hydrophobic membrane proteins would g
be targeted to the ER instead of mitochondria [15]. s
Typical mitochondrial genomes of heterotrophs such as g
mammals are quite small (approx. 16 kb), while those of £
s

plants are less reduced (table 1). Chloroplast genomes of =
vascular plants are around 150 kb in size and are highly con- >

served in gene arrangement and number (approx. 120 genes) s
(table 1). By contrast, proteomic analyses have revealed that =