and/or secondary metabolism. After synthesis, haems must tidine residue, which was shown to be crucial in the human
be transferred to their final destination and client proteins. orthologue for haem binding and exchange. Five HBPs have
This implies the existence of a labile cellular haem pool con- been so far characterized in A. thaliana, including two in the
sisting of haems associated with chaperones. Using a recently chloroplasts (HBP3 and 5) and three in the cytosol [17,18].
developed genetically encoded fluorescent haem sensor, it The cytosolic HBP1 and HBP2 from A. thaliana were shown
was deduced that the labile haem pool in the cytosol or mito- to bind PPIX and haem [17], with HBP1, HBP2 and HBP5
chondria from yeast is in the nanomolar range [7]. However, but not HBP3 being able to bind to a haemin-agarose affinity
having free/labile haems may be deleterious to macromol- column, possibly indicating different functions for HBP3 and
ecules and the cells have to strictly regulate both synthesis HBP5 in chloroplasts [18]. In addition, Arabidopsis HBP5, but
and degradation of haems, but also their transport and not other HBPs, was found to interact with HY1, suggesting
delivery to client proteins. that it might be specifically involved in the delivery of haem
In plants, the synthesis starts in the chloroplast with gluta- to HY1 [18].
mate that is converted through nine successive steps into PPIX In fact, a strategy or adaptation to avoid implicating too
(figure 1). These steps are common with the chlorophyll syn- many intermediates in haem trafficking is via the formation of
thesis pathway and PPIX is the branch point where haem and complexes, notably those involving ferrochelatases. There are
chlorophyll syntheses bifurcate. The insertion of Mg”* by the two genes (FC1 and FC2) in A. thaliana, which have different
Mg-chelatase will generate the chlorophyll precursor Mg-proto- functions in accordance with their different expression patterns
porphyrin IX, whereas the insertion of Fe by ferrochelatases will and the phenotypic analysis of plant mutants, but both are
generate the protohaem giving rise to the formation of a, b- and c- important for chloroplast development. The FC1 may more
type haems. The haem oxygenases (HOs) catalyse the oxidative specifically produce the haem portion used as a retrograde
degradation of haems into carbon monoxide (CO), biliverdin signal to coordinate the expression of specific genes required
(BV) and Fe**, which has to be recycled. Terrestrial plants use during chloroplast development [19]. The FC2 may be more
BV for the synthesis of phytochromobilin in one reaction step specifically important for the maturation of photosynthetic cyto-
catalysed by the phytochromobilin synthase HY2, whereas in chromes [20]. Both FC1 and FC2 are important for stress
animals, BV is converted into bilirubin by biliverdin reductase responses [21,22]. These plant ferrochelatases may be located