least in part comes from maintaining photorespiration and have investigated retrograde signalling during mitochondrial 3
export of reducing equivalents from chloroplasts by the biogenesis.
malate/oxaloacetate shuttle [64]. As a variety of other studies Analyses of transcriptome signatures for mitochondrial and
showed that AOX expression is also increased by high light chloroplastic responses revealed a variety of induced genes
stress and genetic lesions affecting chloroplast activity [15,36], encoding proteins localized not only to mitochondria or chloro-
it needs to be noted that AOX is induced by both mitochondrial plasts but also to other cell compartments [73]. This is not
and chloroplast perturbation. Thus, additional models for mito- surprising as alterations of mitochondrial or chloroplast function
chondrial signalling responding specifically to mitochondrial will affect the whole plant cell. Given this global impact and the
perturbation need to be developed. One potential candidate is metabolic connectivity between mitochondria and chloroplasts,
the Af12Cys-2 (At5g09570) gene, for which transcript abundance there is a need to coordinate the function between these orga-
is induced in a variety of genetic mutants in response to chemical nelles, and retrograde signalling is a major means to maintain
treatments impacting mitochondrial (but not chloroplast) func- cellular homeostasis. Thus, it is expected that there will be
tion and a variety of abiotic stresses. In fact, it is more shared components between mitochondrial and chloroplast
responsive than the induction of AOX1a in many instances retrograde signalling pathways (table 1).

[65]. However, so far, the induction of At12Cys-2 protein level
is only observed in the mutants with decreased respiratory com-

plex I activity [65], indicating that the abundance of At12Cys-2 at A .
a protein level is post-transcriptionally regulated in response to a 2. Reg ulators of mitochondrial ret rogra de

specific mitochondrial lesion(s) in complex I, while for AOX1a, signalling
an increase in protein abundance always accompanies an
increase in transcript abundance following stimulation [27,38]. (a) Regulators of AOX7a retrograde signalling
As complex I is the entry point of electrons into the electron trans- As outlined above, AOX has been widely used as a model for