transcriptome re-analysis does not support that abi4 mutants

3. Common reg ulators of mitochondrial and respond in a similar manner to gun mutants as was originally
. . suggested [15], with abi4 clustering with wild-type plants after

chloroplast retrograde signalling lincomycin treatment [37]. Furthermore, the MAP kinases
Given the interaction in metabolism between chloroplasts and MPK3 and MPK6 have also been proposed as transducers relay-
mitochondria, it is not surprising that signalling pathways ing retrograde signals from chloroplasts to ABI4 (figure 2) [14].
from these organelles may share several components. In Given that multiple laboratories are questioning the role of ABI4
addition to metabolic interactions, chloroplasts and mitochon- and PTM, the role of MAP kinases now also needs to be re-eval-
dria also share many proteins, so-called dual-targeted uated. While the current consensus that ABI4 and proposed
proteins, where the same protein is targeted to both organelles. interacting components are not involved in biogenic chloroplast
In fact, one elegant example of the coordination and integration retrograde signalling, it would be productive if the discrepan-
of signalling from chloroplasts and mitochondria was observed cies between the studies can be explained. A cautionary
with a dual-targeted protein, prolyl-tRNA synthetase [98]. This example is observed with LOW PHOSPHATE RESPONSE1
study revealed that signals from both chloroplasts and mito- (LPR1) or 2 (LPR2). Mutation in LPR1 or LPR2 resulted in the
chondria cooperate or have a synergistic effect to alter nuclear insensitivity of Arabidopsis primary root growth to P; deficiency
gene expression. Given that over 100 dual-targeted proteins [109]; however, these results could not be reproduced in some
have been characterized [99], and as many as 400 have been pre- laboratories. Such discrepancies in observations were puzzling,
dicted to be dual targeted [100], integrated regulation of the given the perceived identical growth conditions, but a recent

report showed that blue-light-mediated ROS production in
roots of plants grown on Petri dishes, a variable of lighting con-
ditions in growth chambers, can cause this phenotype [110].
(a) ABI4 Thus sometimes, unknown variables that are quite small may