unlike orangutans, in the cognitive task, their performance dependent on) sequences of actions than orangutans? Consider >
was best in the Social condition. that wild orangutans perform some serial actions such as the =
To our surprise, orangutans appeared to learn spatial- daily construction of their nests for night-time sleep. This  &
based sequences (spatial task) better than item-based involves selecting a site for the nest, making a foundation of iat
sequences (cognitive task), despite the fact that they had less larger branches, and sometimes adding embellishments [49]. 5!
expertise in the former than the latter. This pattern differs While the seriation of some of these actions is instrumental N
from that observed in monkeys (who evidenced social learning (e.g. a nest could not be constructed in a different order), s
in the cognitive task [16]) and the developmental pattern in other behaviours appear to have less of an instrumental role 5
children observed here and in other studies [19,20]. There are (e.g. adding a ‘rim’ around the edge of the nest, or other embel-
several possible explanations for this result. First, there is lishments called ‘artistic’ features [50,51]). While wild
empirical evidence that captive [39] as well as wild [40,41] orangutans may sometimes be exposed to and use sequences
orangutans have excellent spatial memory, as evidenced by in cases like this, sequences are ubiquitous in children’s lives.
the ability to form cognitive maps of complex habitats, which In fact, from the moment children wake up in the morning to
includes avoiding previously depleted sites in experimental when their heads are placed on a pillow at night, children’s
tasks and revisiting preferred sites in the wild. Second, in days are organized into a series of elaborate routines that
search tasks, orangutans, like all other non-human great apes include hierarchically organized sequences. Might such experi-
(gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos) and 1 year old infants, ences explain the species differences observed here? or do
favoured the use of a spatial rather than a feature-based humans rely on and use such elaborate sequences and routines
memory strategy, while 3 year olds showed the reverse strategy because learning them comes so easily and naturally?
[42]. Finally, in a previous study by Swartz et al. [43], the oran- While most developmental research has focused on the
gutans (one of which was involved in this study) unique pressures faced by human children to learn new instru-
spontaneously used a spatial strategy (selecting items from mental skills by imitation [52-54], less attention has been paid
right to left) when encoding and recalling unordered items to the challenges associated with the vicarious and social learn-
on a touchscreen task similar to the cognitive task used here. ing of arbitrary sequences, critical for both language and ritual
These factors may explain orangutans’ comparatively better [55,56]. The evidence that does exist suggests that placing serial