of predators owing to lack of prey of vulnerable sizes. Shorten- within-population variation in body size and temperature
ing of food chains and simplifications of food webs at higher responses can explain seemingly contradictory patterns of
temperatures have been observed in gradients across geother- variation in individual growth and population biomass
mically heated stream food webs [49]. It is also suggested to production across temperature. Models and experiments
have occurred in the whole-ecosystem warming experiment acknowledging intraspecific size variation show how warm-
[7] illustrated in figure 2, inferred from analyses of perch ing effects on food webs are governed by size-dependent
diets and top-down effects in a predator-exclosure experiment interactions and have identified novel mechanisms—
therein [91]. Predictions from models of simple food webs mediated via population size structures—of how food webs
[18,23,48,49], supported by these experimental studies, suggest may respond to warming. To understand how climate warm-
that warming may reduce the complexity of marine food webs. ing affects food webs we therefore need to account for how
Oceans are, however, open systems with connected food webs, their responses emerge from intraspecific variation in both
and none of the experiments or modelling studies above size, interactions and temperature dependence. Our review
account for the fact that species’ distributions can change suggests that while model-based predictions and observation
with warming [1,92]. Shifts in the spatial overlap between studies of how aquatic systems respond to climate warming
species with warming will together with the processes have just begun to account for these ubiquitous forms of
addressed herein (figure 1), contribute to the restructuring of intraspecific variation, experimental tests are largely lacking.
food webs. Although warming-induced simplifications of Specifically, experiments of warming responses in interacting
food webs through shortening of food chains or loss of species species with size-dependent temperature effects on food
can have many causes, we argue that accounting for three types intake and/or metabolism, where (initial) population size
of within-species variation—in net energy gain, in temperature structures are manipulated, would be useful to test the
effects as well as in species interactions—reveals key mechanisms underlying emergent responses in e.g. food web
mechanisms explaining food web responses to warming. structure, mean size and production to warmer waters.

We argue that advancing understanding of global warming
effects on aquatic food webs through model predictions,