
vided the population is close to the phenotypic optimum (figure 2a). A fitness function that is bounded from below
(essentially a second-order Taylor series expansion of fitness is plausible, given that birth rates cannot be negative.
around the optimum). While this condition has long been a Figure 2b then shows the extrema in the selection gradient
common assumption, it is not necessarily valid when consider- that arise at the inflection points and figure 2c shows the tip-
ing extinction due to sufficiently rapid environmental change: ping point that results. These evolutionary tipping points are
far from the phenotypic optimum there is little evidence to say problematic from a conservation perspective because they
what shape fitness functions will take. are difficult to detect beforehand and cause hysteresis,
Are moving optima models sensitive to the assumption of e.g. slowing the rate of environmental change may not help a
a quadratic fitness function? Osmond & Klausmeier [12] have population recover.
shown that the central concept of moving optima models, the Evolutionary tipping points have also been observed in a
existence of a critical rate of environmental change, may recent extension of the moving optimum model to stage-
collapse if fitness functions are not quadratic. In particular, structured populations [14]. This is despite the fact that each
inflection points in the continuous time fitness function component of fitness in this model is quadratic (in continuous
cause extrema in the selection gradient that can produce evol- time). However, in age- and stage-structured populations the
utionary tipping points and existential crises, where small selection gradient (and thus life-time fitness) depends on the
changes in the phenotypic lag cause sudden shifts to alterna- elasticities of each transition [15], which vary with mean trait
tive stable states (including extinction). For example, assume value, creating nonlinearities. These nonlinearities can then
birth rate is a Gaussian function and death rate is constant cause extrema in the selection gradient, just as inflection

2 a? points in the fitness function do (see also Complication 2:
1(X,E) = Tmaxe O12" — d (3-1) population dynamics (§4)).


(a) DD births and TD deaths