A social group is usually a highly complex environment, veys the same chemicals as the colony inhabitants, providing
which can change over time in both the composition and information about colony membership [67], and it has there-
social role of their members, and recognition processes fore been considered the primary source of cues, necessary
appear to be finely entwined with the social network of inter- and sufficient, for the acquisition of the referent template
actions that an individual experiences through its life [42,43]. [67]. Although it was generally believed that the NMR was
Given the plasticity in the structure of many social environ- shared within the Polistes genus, the ontogeny of such a process
ments [4446], it may be evolutionarily advantageous that has been investigated in only a few of the 206 species of Polistes
group members should reflect a certain degree of plasticity in paper wasps, and recent studies, carried out on the European
their recognition system, with the ability to adjust or update paper wasp Polistes dominula [47,59,64], have unveiled that
their templates based on contextual contingencies [42,43,47]. the precocious sensitive window coupled with the nest paper
For example, in many social insect species, the colony odour as relevant cues do not represent the only mechanism to
is dynamic and can change over time owing to multiple factors explain the development of recognition abilities in these
(ie. colony age, usurpation or replacement of the dominant wasps. In fact, these studies have already demonstrated that,
individuals, colony relocation to a new nesting site, social at least in P. dominula, the template is formed neither during
interactions and cue exchanges among colony members, the an early post-emergence window [59] nor during the pupal
presence of parasites or pathogens, etc.) [48-56]; therefore, for stage [64] and that the nest paper is not the most relevant
the recognition system to maintain its efficacy, at least in source of cues for template formation [59]. Such experimen-
some species, individuals should be able to update their tem- tal evidence opened new questions on the mechanisms
plate during their life [43,47]. In fact, experimental evidence underlying the ontogeny of NMR in Polistes wasps.

[57-59] suggests that the sensitive early-life period might not
be a shared feature in social species, opening the possibility

that templates might be repeatedly updated during adult life (( Investigating recognition ontogeny through phase-
