temporal distanse (year)

Figure 4. Presence—absence-based turnover (SERr) (a) and abundance-based turnover (SERa) (b) over temporal distance between years, separated by organisms and
tegions. Each time-series is represented by differently coloured points, with loess function lines indicated to visualise the temporal dynamics.

information only on the taxonomic restructuring of a commu- phyto- and zooplankton in South Africa coastal habitats
nity but provides little indication of any changes in species’ (e.g. Zandvlei and St Lucia) respond rapidly to regular alter-
traits or functional groups. Robust data on a rigorous suite nations of system states (estuarine mouth management) or
of traits for most taxa are limited [66]; therefore, taxonomic hydrological conditions (associated with drought) [33,34].
data will likely remain the metric of choice for the near Phytoplankton and invertebrate samples are more difficult
future in these assessments. Turnover in time is a fundamen- to process after collection and usually reflect a higher level
tal process of community organization, and functional of local-scale patchiness than for birds or fish, for example.
stability of ecosystems is often related to the fact that different Our analyses did not account for this, but it is possible that
species provide this function over time, i.e. turnover occurs the higher turnover rates (electronic supplementary material,
[67]. Hodapp et al. [68] recently demonstrated that temporal figure SOM 3) or minimal distance-decay relationship
turnover fundamentally depends on spatial heterogeneity (figure 3) might be an artefact of this rather than necessarily
in biodiversity: only if other species are within dispersal dis- a feature of the communities themselves.
tance can turnover be more than a reshuffling of dominance. In our datasets, the overall setup of the monitoring was
In coastal systems with multiple stressors, the species pool unchanged over time, such that the seasonal coverage was
tends to shift to short-lived, fast growing and fast reprodu- consistent. However, further inconsistencies in single time-
cing species on larger spatial scales [69], which induces a series can arise from a wide range of issues during field
functional homogenization in space potentially limiting sampling. Single samples may be lost or incomplete or
future temporal turnover. weather conditions might restrict certain sampling dates or
On average, we found faster turnover in small organisms stations. Monitoring programs also often run on temporary
(plankton, invertebrates) than in vertebrates, which might funding regimes, which might lead to changes in numbers