pollen effectively and, potentially, reducing attention from would reduce the overall presence of rewardless flowers in
the subset that does not. A full treatment of the plant perspec- the landscape (and thus opportunities to learn to avoid them)
tive on floral signal production and detection is beyond the somewhat independently of population density. On the
scope of this paper, as is a synthesis of the animal and plant per- other hand, rewarding flower scarcity across an entire plant
spectives. We leave these as critical research goals for the community (owing to high forager abundance and thus
future, but highlight here several important considerations depletion of rewards or low availability of resources such as
related to selection on floral reward and display traits in water or nitrogen that plants need to make rewards) may
noisy environments. drive foragers to lower their acceptance thresholds, relaxing

The broad patterns that we highlight as characteristic of negative frequency-dependent effects on rewardless species.
many floral communities—floral reward heterogeneity and Thus, rewardless species may be especially vulnerable to
floral trait overlap—restrict the degree to which the flower demographic stochasticity, unless they evolve phenological
displays that plants have evolved can in fact signal meaning- separation from rewarding species. In addition, climate
ful information to foragers, and thus the ability of foragers change-induced shifts in seasonal patterns are known to
to use this information to inform foraging decisions. This reshape flowering phenology, resulting in changes to co-flower-
holds several implications for plant fitness and the degree ing patterns in plant communities [82]. One effect of such
to which rewardlessness can become or remain part of a changes may be a widening of the flowering season [82,83].
viable reproductive strategy for plants. This may bring species with peripheral phenological niches
There are at least two major ways in which floral reward (those that are limited to blooming at the extremes of a commu-
recognition should influence plant fitness consequences associ- nity flowering season) into increased phenological overlap with
ated with the rewardless reproductive strategy. First, forager other species. For early or late-blooming rewardless species,
preferences for a given signal should decrease as the proportion increased phenological overlap may dramatically increase com-
of empty flowers expressing that signal increases (§3b(ii)). petition with rewarding species for pollinators. Further, the
Accordingly, mating success of rewardless species may be degree to which selection could subsequently reduce phenologi-
negatively frequency dependent, decreasing when rewarding cal overlap may be limited by harsh weather events at seasonal