in nature is considerably more complex than this. Therefore, day). However, it is also the outcome of floral trait evolution
experiments in which foragers are faced with rewarding (e.g. favouring species-specific patterns of reward pro-
and rewardless flowers that resemble each other rather clo- duction and presentation). There is a critical need to
sely in one or more display traits (colour, odour, etc.) or explore how the signal detection capabilities of different
signal modalities (visual, olfactory, etc.) will provide valu- classes of foragers (including floral enemies: robbers, herbi-
able insights into the mechanisms underlying choice, as vores and seed predators) have selected for key floral traits.
well as their consequences. Experiments comparing mul- In particular, as we have stressed, only a subset of flower
tiple flower-foraging species will also facilitate an foragers confer the mutualistic benefit of pollen transfer.
understanding of how cognitive capacities and processes Different classes of visitors may differ to some extent in
impact foragers’ functioning as pollinators. their signal detection abilities, e.g. owing to species-specific

2. Although nectar is the most common floral reward, there cognitive capacity, and in their acceptance thresholds, e.g.
are in fact other resources that foragers seek within flowers, owing to other available foraging options and thus the cost
including pollen, oils and even edible ‘reward’ petals, as of missed detections. Might floral traits have evolved that,
well as nest material (resin) and mate-attracting volatiles tapping into these distinct thresholds, differentially attract
[87]. Further, some flower-foraging species are searching the beneficial subset of foragers? Many floral traits have not
for more than one of these resources, sometimes at the only evolved to attract certain pollinator subsets but to
same time and from the same set of flowers. This is another deter others [90], so this is not unreasonable.
level of complexity in the plant/pollinator landscape that 6. Small population sizes and restriction to peripheral pheno-

deserves attention. Do foragers have different acceptance logical niches may be challenges that rewardless plants


face as a result of negative frequency-dependent mating suc-
cess resulting from co-occurrence with abundant rewarding