
Figure 2. PDFs for the two classes of signaller we consider in this article: rewarding flowers (black icon, blue lighter curve) and rewardless flowers (white icon,
purple darker curve). The x-axis represents the flower's ‘signal level’, a composite measure of all components of its display (in any modality, e.g. colour, odour). The
y-axis represents the probability that a flower with a given signal level will be from each class of signaller. For example, a flower with a low signal level has zero
probability of being rewarding but some probability of being rewardless (and some probability of being not a flower at all). By contrast, a flower with a high signal
level has some probability of being rewarding and zero probability of being rewardless. Of particular interest is the region where the PDFs overlap, where a given
signal level could indicate either a rewardless or a rewarding flower. A forager sets an acceptance threshold (red dashed line) above which it will visit flowers
(because they are more likely to be rewarding) and below which it will reject them (because they are more likely to be rewardless). When PDFs overlap,
there will be two regions of error: accepting a flower that is rewardless (‘false alarm’ or type | error, indicated by purple darker hatching) and rejecting a
flower that is rewarding (‘missed detection’ or type Il error, indicated by blue lighter hatching). The forager’s challenge is to set an optimal acceptance threshold
to minimize both errors. (Online version in colour.)

parameter, which can be conceptualized as a composite signal likely that in nature, they do in fact adjust their acceptance
whose level indicates whether the flower is rewarding or thresholds. For example, bumblebees increase their preference
rewardless. PDFs can vary in both mean and variance across for a rewardless flower when a new rewarding flower becomes
plant communities, resulting in a wide variety of curve available and the colour of this new flower resembles the
shapes, heights and degrees of overlap among PDFs. Each rewardless one but differs from a previously blooming
curve may represent several plant species; the common feature rewarding flower (carry-over effects: [48]). Peak shift, a prefer-
is whether they are rewarding versus rewardless. ence for more easily distinguishable signals [49], might drive

An animal’s expected response to a given signal will foragers to prefer flowers less similar to rewardless ones and
depend on its acceptance threshold, the signal level at which therefore to shift acceptance thresholds towards the upper
it switches from accepting to rejecting flowers [8]. Any signals range of rewarding flowers’ PDF. Generalization, the tendency
above the acceptance threshold are expected to elicit visitation to respond to a signal distinguishable from but similar to one
to the flower, whereas a forager will avoid any flowers with a that is known to be rewarding [50,51], on the other hand, could