(again see [4] for a review of the primary studies). Human chil- adult activities (i.e. collaborative foraging) ‘migrated down’ N
dren are successful in all of these at around 12 to 16 months of in ontogeny because they benefitted immature individuals in s
age. Great apes, by contrast, show no evidence of any of these their collaborative activities as well. This migration process, <5
kinds of imitative learning until 2.5 to 3 years of age. Impor- in turn, also benefitted later adults, as earlier developing
tantly, because of the developmental focus of the relevant ape skills enabled extra preparation and practice for collaborative
studies, we have in these data a number of well-documented activities during adulthood. At the same time, ontogenetic
data points where great apes failed to imitate at younger ages, adaptations for shared intentionality that were beneficial to
which are crucial for setting the lower limit in ontogeny. So infants and young children in a cooperative breeding context
once again we have a clear developmental shift of skills to a ‘migrated up’ in ontogeny because they benefitted older
period more than 1 year earlier in human infants (figure 3). children in their collaborative and communicative activities
The theoretical question is thus why gaze following, com- with peers. These individuals were then better adapted for
municative gestures, collaboration and social learning skills adult activities relying on collaboration and communication.
should have shifted in great ape ontogeny to a younger age Our proposal is that both of these processes in fact occurred;
of emergence in humans. There certainly could be other that is, human cooperative breeding and collaborative forms
reasons, but this shift is at least consistent with the ontogen- of subsistence co-evolved, as mothers who received help
etic adaptations hypothesis that human infants at some point rearing their young could be much more productive in colla-
began evolving skills for dealing with the special socio- borative foraging (and the helpers would share in the fruits of
ecological challenges of human infancy in its cooperative her labour). This combined hypothesis would explain both
breeding context. why skills of shared intentionality first emerge in contempor-

ary human ontogeny in infants and young children—that

is, as ontogenetic adaptations for infancy in a cooperative
4A hybrid model breeding context—and why contemporary humans have the
complex cognitive skills for social and cultural coordination