hypothesis is the developmental timing of the social skills ‘whole hand pointing’ gesture, a kind of ritualized reaching
that human children have in common with other apes. Toma- in which they expect an adult to retrieve an object for them.
sello [4] compared the developmental timing in humans and Although human infants’ ritualized gestures emerge at more
great apes in three skills (for which there was sufficient data): or less the same developmental period as great ape ritualized

gaze following (as a precursor to joint attention), ritualized gestures, they tend to come in a few months earlier (figure 3).


In terms of collaboration, the problem is that great ape The way such changes happen are strictly Darwinian, but | 6 |

infants have been given very little opportunity to collaborate they must be viewed in a developmental context. Thus, many
on their own without their mothers, who are normally always changes in developmental timing are a simple result of the
present. Some ‘orphan’ juveniles have learned to collaborate fact that owing to random variation an adaptation emerges
with peers, but only after some training from humans. We in some individuals a bit earlier or a bit later than the norm,
do not have the needed data, but from what data we do or the adaptation takes shorter or longer to develop than is
have it is unlikely that great ape infants could collaborate typical. If there is a fitness benefit for individuals at the
with peers at the tender age of 2 to 3 years, as is typical extreme—e.g. those in whom the adaptation emerges earliest
with human children (figure 3). or lasts longest—then a change in timing for the species
Finally, in the months around their first birthdays, human should occur. The fitness benefit is first and foremost about
infants begin to socially learn and reproduce the actions the particular developmental periods involved, but it may
of others, some of which apes do as well. Tomasello & extend to later developmental periods if, for example, skills = =
Carpenter [24] gave a systematic battery of imitation tasks to developed at one period are especially good preparation for >
three human-raised chimpanzees longitudinally over the first challenges to be faced at some later period. Importantly, any __
few years of life. Wobber et al. [11] gave some similar but differ- time there is a potential change in developmental timing, — =
ent imitation tasks to chimpanzee and bonobo youngsters. there are ‘developmental constraints’ that must be overcome, — S'