novices have access to the entire production history of an arte- semantic and episodic memory. No-one thinks Middle Pleisto- —§ &
fact, so they know what intermediate forms are like. In short, cene hominins had equivalent capacities in all those respects. =
even if Pleistocene hominins could not copy accurately, cultural So children growing up in the Middle Pleistocene probably >
learning could still make it possible for them to learn a grew up in social environments that were less well adapted to N
technique they could not discover for themselves. (iii) While cultural learning, and with minds less well adapted for cultural s
Tennie et al. have plausible methods for identifying skills that learning too. In addition, as Nowell & White [38] show, their S
fall within the ZLS of great apes, these do not extend to long- life-history characteristics reduced their prospects for stable
extinct hominin populations. One method depends on the con- cumulative cultural evolution. While there was some shift in
trast between experimental and control populations, obviously erectine life-history characteristics towards those typical of
only an option for living species. Another depends on the later hominins, erectine childhood and adolescence was com-
distribution of skills across socially unconnected wild popu- pressed compared with later hominins: less time to learn
lations. We rarely know whether the hominins responsible reduced the prospects of innovations establishing locally and
for one site are informationally isolated from those responsible then regionally. Despite the fact that great ape data do not
for others, for informational connection comes in degrees and show a rigid connection between group size and encephaliza-
can be mediated by archaeologically invisible intermediate tion, Nowell & White also accept Dunbar’s inference from
populations, and by coming across the artefacts themselves, relative neocortical size to group size [20], and thus conclude
as they can persist in the environment indefinitely. Partial cul- that the typical erectine band was smaller than those of later
tural information flow, mediated, say, by coming across a site hominins. In growing up as an erectine, the skills to make
where stone has been worked, can provide a crucial hint that tools needed to be acquired more rapidly, but from fewer
makes the difference between a difficult problem and a tract- models and peers. These factors contribute to the long-run
able one. (iv) Finally, this viewpoint understates both the stasis of the Acheulian [24,38]. They conclude that ‘the constric-
difficulty of re-inventing Acheulian technology and its costs. tion of those life history phases in which novelty, experiment
As Hiscock [26] points out, unguided trial and error learning and innovation are most readily embraced would thereby inhi-
of stone-working techniques is seriously dangerous. Very bit the likelihood of novel behaviours arising and being locally
sharp fragments detach at speed. Moreover, experimental adopted’ [24, p. 68]. This effect might be especially strong if, as