is probably true that Acheulian skills are not transmitted by (R. Planer 2019, personal communication). Cultural learning S
high-fidelity copying. But that does not make it impossible within residential groups will be less efficient (i) if cultural ©
for agents to acquire capacities they could not readily invent learning is primarily vertical and (ii) if juveniles and/or adoles- =
themselves. Chimpanzee nut-cracking seems to be transmitted cents primarily associate with their mothers and their female — 5
through some mix of social support and individual practice, affiliates, and (iii) if there are sex-based differences in foraging = =
rather than high-fidelity copying. But nut-cracking is not targets and the skills associated with these targets. Inaddition, >
readily re-invented. It is confined to a small fragment of the individual cognitive capacities matter, and these have surely __
chimpanzee geographical distribution in West Africa [35]. So, changed quite markedly over evolutionary time. As Heyes = =:
cultural learning can stabilize skills that an individual would [34] has recently argued at length, contemporary minds are = 5'
find it difficult to invent without copying. Moreover, emulation stocked with a battery of cognitive gadgets that (inter alia) = =
learning can support reliable skill transfer [33], especially if support cultural learning: theory of mind, imitation, language, =
novices have access to the entire production history of an arte- semantic and episodic memory. No-one thinks Middle Pleisto- —§ &
fact, so they know what intermediate forms are like. In short, cene hominins had equivalent capacities in all those respects. =
even if Pleistocene hominins could not copy accurately, cultural So children growing up in the Middle Pleistocene probably >
learning could still make it possible for them to learn a grew up in social environments that were less well adapted to N
technique they could not discover for themselves. (iii) While cultural learning, and with minds less well adapted for cultural s
Tennie et al. have plausible methods for identifying skills that learning too. In addition, as Nowell & White [38] show, their S
fall within the ZLS of great apes, these do not extend to long- life-history characteristics reduced their prospects for stable
extinct hominin populations. One method depends on the con- cumulative cultural evolution. While there was some shift in
trast between experimental and control populations, obviously erectine life-history characteristics towards those typical of
only an option for living species. Another depends on the later hominins, erectine childhood and adolescence was com-
distribution of skills across socially unconnected wild popu- pressed compared with later hominins: less time to learn
lations. We rarely know whether the hominins responsible reduced the prospects of innovations establishing locally and
for one site are informationally isolated from those responsible then regionally. Despite the fact that great ape data do not
for others, for informational connection comes in degrees and show a rigid connection between group size and encephaliza-