almost all chimpanzee residential groups that have been exten- oped a lifeway in which hunting was important, residential
sively studied,’ civil social interaction takes place only within group size would have been fairly constant at somewhere S
the group [35]. When chimpanzee groups meet one another at between 18 and 30 adults. That size balances the need to z
the fringes of their respective territories, there is mutual cool reduce daily variation in resource intake, the need to minimize S
suspicion, or worse. That is much less true of bonobos. There the rate of depletion, and the costs of mobility [59, p. 274]. Given Ss
is evidence that when bonobo communities encounter one the high cost of growing and running a large brain, earlier = =
another, females quite often initiate affiliative interactions hominins might have needed a little less than very recent homi- S
across the community boundary, while the males remain nins, but they were constrained by mobility and the costs of | ©
mutually but passively suspicious [54]. Female dominance, resource depletion in similar ways. So, Middle Pleistocene resi- =
built on the fact that only female bonobos readily form dential groups were probably about the same size as those of — 5
coalitions, seems to keep male wariness from escalating into ethnographically known foragers. But if, as Layton’s analysis = =
overt hostility. If this difference between chimpanzees and [58] suggests, these residential groups were not part of a larger >
bonobos in their intergroup relations is due to the fact that social whole, their exposure to risk depended only on their Ss
male chimpanzees form coalitions and male bonobos do not, own small size and small territory; their risk was not moderated =
the ancestral hominin condition was very likely chimpanzee- by links to a larger community. Likewise, without reciprocation, — 5!
like, for large and medium game hunting almost certainly they would not have had similar rescue options in the face of = >
involved male coalitions. The high-velocity projectile weapons local ecological disturbances. Thus, Hopkinson et al. [24] are =
that make solitary and small party hunting possible are not right to think that the expected lifespan of closed residential = &
part of the record until about 100 ka or later [55]. groups was less than that of the more open groups of hominin =
Caution is needed in inferring ancestral hominin residential life, with those more open groups probably beginning to >!
patterns from comparative data. As one reader of this paper appear with the evolution of the Heidelbergensians. N
pointed out, primate residential patterns are both varied and The upshot is that the survival time of innovations at their s
evolutionarily fluid. Moreover, mid-Pleistocene hominins are point of innovation was probably limited, compared with the S
closer in time to Homo sapiens than to the last common Pan/ prospects of an innovation in the more networked residential
hominin ancestor, let alone to living great apes. In particular, groups of later hominins. That said, residential groups and