that require learning and practice into one’s adult years, inno- variation from about 800 ka.

vations that depend on those peak skills—innovations that
depend on genuine adult expertise—cannot be exported into
neighbouring residential groups by subadult dispersal, and

shifting toa group in which that innovation is not yet established 4. Concludin g discussion

at the very least makes it less likely that the dispersing subadult This paper has argued that (i) the first half of the Acheulian, S
willin the fullness of developmental time arrive at that expertise. from about 1.7 Ma to about 0.8 Ma, was a period of techno- = 5
Chimpanzee nut-cracking might bea case like this. It seems to be logical stasis, though the possibility that this is an artefact =
surprisingly hard for chimpanzees to master the skill, requiring of preservation bias cannot be completely excluded. (ii) If = §
years, and its limited spread may be due to the fact that females that stasis is real, it is not the result of the very low innovation = =
disperse before they are fully proficient. potential of Middle Pleistocene hominins. (iii) Since the estab- =

Third, it is one thing to have a skill, another to be able to lishment of an innovation to the point of archaeological ~
express it. Nowell & White [38] suspect that erectines were con- visibility depends on cultural learning, the cultural learning =
servative and conformist, so a female joining a new group potentials of Middle Pleistocene hominins are relevant. =
would face social costs in expressing new behaviours. Even if Those potentials were probably markedly lower than those 5
that conjecture is mistaken, and conservatism as such is not of later hominins, but that is unlikely to be the full expla- =
an issue, the low social prestige of a newly arrived subadult nation of stasis, for other features of their lifeways show <
would reduce her chances of establishing any innovation she significant cultural learning abilities. (iv) Archaeological visi- =
is carrying in her new group. Her practices will not be as salient bility depends on innovations spreading regionally, and the S
to others. To the extent that rank or prestige influences the prospects of such spread depend both on the character of x
attention of others, she will be relatively invisible. Moreover, local groups, including their expected long-term viability, 3