
Figure 1. Ecological shifts and the process of speciation. A schematic depiction of how large peak shifts between flowering plant and conifer hosts, although
relatively rare, generate greater RI than more moderate host shifts among flowering plant families.

has been observed in fish [16-19], amphibians [20], birds [21], We thus here study Timema taxa that use a wide range of
plants [22] and insects [13,14,23-25]. However, it is often conifer (e.g. pine, cedar, redwood and fir) and flowering
unclear why populations differ in levels of reproductive plant (e.g. oak, roses and manzanita) hosts (figure 2; electronic
isolation (RI) [9-11,26]. How such differences affect the diver- supplementary material, table S1; a host-plant population is
sification of a clade is then further complicated by the relative defined as conspecific individuals collected from a common
frequencies with which different levels of RI are reached. The host genus at a geographical locality). In this context, we con-
adaptive zones hypothesis can be applied to explain this vari- sider conifer and flowering plant hosts to represent different
ation, making two inter-related predictions: (i) shifts between adaptive zones and thus shifts between them to be large rela-
zones are relatively rare and (ii) when large shifts between tive to those within plant divisions, based on: (i) the fact that
zones do occur, they generate stronger RI than shifts within few insect species (or even sets of closely related species) use
zones (figure 1). both these plant divisions as hosts [31] and (ii) the deep phylo-
Note that even without invoking the adaptive zones genetic divergence between these two divisions and their great
model per se, these predictions should hold; large ecological differences in chemistry, physical structure and evolutionary
shifts that generate strong RI may be rare. Moreover, although dynamics [32-36].
we here test the adaptive zones model using discrete We first used phylogenetic information and host-plant use
categories of ecological divergence, similar logic could be to infer the frequency of shifts between conifer and flowering
applied to continuous scenarios. Just as one may ask whether plant hosts [25], relative to shifts between hosts within each
shifts between more extreme categories generate more RI, one division. An adaptive zones model would be supported by
could test whether more extreme quantitative shifts in ecol- host shifts overall being common, but those between conifers
ogy (e.g. temperature, elevation, aridity) generate more RI. and flowering plants being rare. Second, we tested for an
For example, it has been shown that more extreme differen- association between the magnitude of a host shift (i.e. within