strength of selection and number of loci contributing to the

(iii) Coevolution within a network and within-population positive trait, and their precise interactions (note the criticisms of
epistasis can create strong localized barriers that are low-dimensional fitness landscapes in §2a above).
persistent in the face of gene flow
While early models of BDMIs [1-3] consider only the deleter- () Summary of the theoretical section
ious consequences of epistasis, several recent studies have Theoretical approaches to study the accumulation of RI vary in
explored the consequences of beneficial interactions, which their level of mechanistic detail, generality and tractability.
could arise among loci that participate within the same From the existing theoretical work, some key findings on the
physical interaction network [53,54]. Coevolution between role of multi-locus interactions in the build-up of RI emerge.
interacting loci [55] could occur through multiple successive Broadly speaking, models with and without a mechanistic
steps. The breaking of the resulting within-population ‘posi- understanding of multi-locus interactions both show that
tive epistasis’ [53] in hybrids can lead to effective species redundancy in the genotype (i.e. the fact that the same pheno-
barriers. This has been shown in population genetic studies type can be produced by multiple combinations of genotypes)
that examine the fate of incompatibilities in the face of gene allows incompatibilities to accumulate. In both contexts, pre-
flow—a consideration that was often ignored in the past. dictions about how easily different genotypes can be reached
Unlike BDMIs in their original formulation (where fit ancestral through neutral evolution, and therefore how rapidly strong
combination can be recovered by recombination), incom- RI can evolve, are determined by the shape of the fitness land-
patibilities that result from multi-step coevolution in scape. Taking into account the mechanistic understanding and

both populations are stable under gene flow, because fit structure of multi-locus interactions allows for some additional


insights. First, the mechanistic basis of interactions could itself of species barriers, and we also highlight challenges in using | 6 |
