would be important for completing speciation because it is an sis [76], the recombination rates will need to be measured using
irreversible barrier. The order of the appearance of isolating linkage analysis to confirm our results.
barriers during evolution is important for understanding Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that allopatry
how speciation proceeds, but we lack information about can promote speciation. Our demographic analysis clearly
when each isolating barrier has evolved. indicated that these sticklebacks experienced an allopatric
The Japanese nine-spined stickleback system can provide us phase. Secondary contact then occurred during the last glacial
opportunities to investigate the patterns of genomic divergence period, when P. pungitius may have expanded its distribution
at late stages of speciation. We have identified heterogeneous to the south where it came into contact with P. sinensis. This
patterns of genomic differentiation and divergence, which are demographic history contrasts with that of the Japanese
highly correlated with recombination rates. Higher Fsr in geno- three-spined stickleback species pair, where a model of consist-
mic regions of lower recombination rates is widely observed in ent gene flow was supported [28], although we cannot rule out
many cases of speciation [39,40,87,88]. This can be explained by the possibility of repeated instances of contact and isolation.
the fact that regions with low recombination rates reduce intra- This difference may account for the higher genomic divergence
population genetic diversity due to the hitchhiking effects of between the nine-spined stickleback than the three-spined
negative selection against deleterious mutations and/or posi- stickleback species pairs. Currently, we do not know whether
tive selection for adaptive alleles [87-89]. Consistent with this any prezygotic barriers are enhanced in sympatry compared
idea, intra-population genetic diversity showed a positive corre- to in allopatry. Further ecological and behavioural compari-
lation with the recombination rate (electronic supplementary sons between sympatric and allopatric pairs are required to

material, figure S3). By contrast, low recombination regions test the presence of reinforcement after secondary contact.


Whether speciation has a tipping point remains elusive [5].
Our plot of Fs and migration rate in multiple stickleback
species pairs may be consistent with the hypothesis of the tip-