colour on survival to 16 weeks and survival throughout breed- indicated benefits of colour differ by species (table 1). We found
ing differed between limnetic and benthic sticklebacks. Here, support for this on survival to maturity, the probability of
benthic survival appears unperturbed by father’s colour or daughters producing a first clutch, the probability of producing
diet, but for limnetics, survival of offspring with high-colour clutches subsequent to the first, son courtship vigour and the
fathers is greater when eating the native than alternative diet. probability for sons of getting females to examine their nest
As survival throughout breeding is the terminal node, it cap- (table 1). The father colour by species interaction on survival
tures variation throughout all measures of survival modelled, to maturity provides particularly strong evidence for the eco-
making the observed pattern very strong support for the logical stage mechanism, as expected, father colour did not

ecological stage mechanism (figure 1). impact benthic survival, but survival to adulthood was greater


for sons of high-colour limnetic fathers. Similarly, strong sup- In fact, if benefits are affected by ecological conditions, then it | 13 |

port was seen for nest examination, where father colour did is fairly likely that different fitness measures (the benefits)
not affect benthic son success, but limnetic sons of high- will be correlated with father colour (the indicator trait) when
colour fathers had high success. Father colour also affected ecological conditions vary. We do find the predicted three-
the probability of producing multiple clutches for limnetic way interaction for several fitness components, indicating
more than benthic daughters, when raised on plankton. that father colour, the indicator trait investigated, and diet,
Evidence that colour indicates adaptation to different the ecological effect investigated, affect two species differen-
diets by the different species is shown for survival to matur- tially adapted to their habitats. Offspring survival is most
ity and the probability daughters produced a first clutch (had clearly in accord with our predictions, suggesting that the
nonzero fecundity) showing significant two-way interaction effects of the ecological stage are especially strong in determin-
between species and diet (table 1). Limnetics were more ing survival so that an individual has a chance to reproduce.
likely to survive to maturity on native plankton diet, yet It is somewhat surprising that growth and body size showed ==