exhibit stronger hybrid abnormalities than sympatric species species were estimated to have diverged approximately = 3!
pairs in marine reef fishes [19]. By contrast, allopatric and 0.68 Ma [28]. This is much older than the majority of the 5
sympatric species of Drosophila species pairs do not differ in three-spined stickleback species pairs, which mostly diverged =
the strength of hybrid abnormalities, although pre-zygotic after the end of the last glacial period (approx. 12000 years = &
isolation is stronger in sympatric pairs as suggested by ago) [45]. Although the two Japanese species have exchanged iat
theory [20]. Although such comparative studies between cur- migrants for the majority of time since their divergence, there So
rently sympatric and allopatric species pairs are helpful to are high levels of genome-wide divergence and limited N
infer the roles of allopatric phases in speciation, it is usually regions of introgression between them [28]. It is unknown s
unclear whether currently sympatric species experienced a whether this pattern of genomic divergence is representative z
period of allopatry in the past or for how long currently allopa- of the late stage of stickleback speciation.
tric species have been isolated [21,22]. Determining the period Although the sympatric Japanese Gasterosteus species
of geographical isolation is even more difficult in species pairs pair is the oldest species pair with on-going gene flow reported
that diverged at more ancient times, due to the fact that ancient thus far among sticklebacks, the closely related genus Pungitius
geological events are generally more difficult to reconstruct may contain other old species pairs, offering unique opportu-
than recent events. Recent advances in genomic technologies, nities to investigate late stages of speciation [46,47]. In the
however, provide us opportunities to test whether primary present study, we focused on a Japanese sympatric pair,
divergence or secondary contact is more plausible and to esti- P. sinensis and P. pungitius. P. pungitius, the nine-spined
mate divergence times using genome-wide sequence data stickleback, is widely distributed in both freshwater and brack-
[4,23-25]. For instance, the sympatric Japanese stickleback ish-water habitats across the Northern Hemisphere, whereas
species pair of Gasterosteus aculeatus and G. nipponicus was orig- P. sinensis is endemic to East Asia and found mainly in fresh-
inally considered to have arisen via allopatric speciation water habitats (figure 1a). These two species overlap in
[26,27]. However, a more recent demographic study using eastern Hokkaido, Japan [47,48]. Previous studies uncovered
whole-genome sequences has shown that some gene flow hybrid male sterility in both directions of hybridization
has occurred between them for the majority of time since [49,50], suggesting the possibility that they are at a late stage
their divergence [28]. This illustrates the importance of con- of speciation. However, a detailed demographic history and