at the neurula stage in the pre-placodal region adjacent to the (table 1). Almost half of them are expressed by the NC or
prospective NC territory. surrounding tissues and their derivatives, but none of them
We showed that MMP28 expression is limited to the neural has been described in placode cells at the stages studied here.
plate border at early neurula stage, then to the lateral placodes. The expression profile of MMP28 over time is comparable to
This placodal expression is sustained in the epibranchial that of Sixl. However, the MMP28-positive territory only rep-
placodes at tail bud stage. In addition, MMP28 expression is resents a subdomain of Six1 [32]. Notably, MMP28 was not
detected along the migratory pathway of the first NC stream. detected in the most anterior placodal domain giving rise to
As indicated earlier, MMP28 was first isolated in a screen for olfactory placodes. By contrast, MMP28 expression is main-
genes activated in the NC tissue at neurula stage [12]. However, tained in the epibranchial placodes that originate from the
as discussed by the authors of this study, because the micro- lateral placodes (Sox2-positive territory) and later is detected
array-based approach was performed on manually dissected in between migratory NC streams.
embryonic tissues at different stages, potential contamination NC cells and cranial placodes cooperate to form the cephalic
by surrounding tissues could not be excluded. In fact, the peripheral nervous system. NC cells give rise to glial cells while
authors reported that MMP28 transcripts were detected at the neurons have a dual origin, coming from either NC, placodes
edge of the NC domain, not the NC per se [12]. At neurula or both, depending on the cranial ganglion of interest [35].
stage, our double in situ hybridization show that MMP28-posi- Interestingly, NC and placode interaction involved in peripheral
tive signal does not overlap with the NC marker Snai2/Slug, but nervous system patterning starts during NC migration. In Xeno-
co-localizes with the lateral placodal domain of Sox2. While we pus, placodal cells are the source of stromal cell-derived factor 1
have detected expression in the medial NC, overall MMP28 (Sdf1/Cxcl12), a key regulator of NC cell migration [36]. Sdf1
expression is primarily confined to the cranial placodes at promotes NC cell motility, which in the context of the con-

early neurula stages. straints of the developing head leads to migration of NC cells


towards the placodes [37]. However, physical interactions have been specified at the neural plate border. MMP28