To further specify the positioning of the partially recon- cause of the Moscow plague riot of 1771 [48]. While the phylo-
structed Y. pestis genome from the rat sample, a maximum- genetic position of two eighteenth century Southern Russian
likelihood phylogenetic analysis (electronic supplementary Y. pestis genomes, Rostov2033 and Rostov2039, among Western
material, figure S6) was conducted also including random European post-Black Death strains (figure 2) does not confirm
strains from different ancient and modern Y. pestis branches, or refute the Turkish origin of the pathogen, it supports the
as well as Y. pseudotuberculosis and Y. enterocolitica genomes. relation of Southern Russian eighteenth century plague with
The latter two genomes were selected due to their mapping the Western European epidemics. However, it is worth
results showing the highest numbers of mapped reads in the noting that the Rostov-on-Don region was located on the cross-
rat sample after Y. pestis (electronic supplementary material, roads of multiple water and land routes, and plague strains
figure S5). Although the strain could only be partially could have been brought into this region via many different
reconstructed from the rat sample, the identified SNPs are sup- ways [48]. This assumption is supported by the position of
ported by 3-18 reads (electronic supplementary material, table the two Rostov samples on the phylogenetic tree: despite the
S4). Our analysis places the rat sample into the variety of fact they originated from the same burial ground, they do not
Y. pestis strains, possibly even clustering with ancient Y. pestis cluster together (figure 2).
strains (electronic supplementary material, figure S6); however, Overall, potential causes of the fifteenth to seventeenth cen-
due to its low coverage and very low bootstrap support of the tury plague in Southern Russia are not well known as both
tree, more details about its placement among these strains external (i.e. European, through Ukraine or Crimea, or Asian,
cannot be described. probably Persian) and internal (some residual natural) reser-
Interestingly, this rat sample was collected from the voirs are hypothesized [49]. The location of Azov38 (fifteenth
same ossuary where the only Polish sample testing positive to seventeenth century) Y. pestis genome close to other Euro-
for plague was found (Gdansk8, electronic supplementary pean Y. pestis strains suggests some external origin, but in the
material, table S1). Thus, SNPs identified in the partial absence of ancient Y. pestis genomes from Asia, the exact
Y. pestis genome from the rat sample showed differences— source (i.e. western or eastern) of these plague strains cannot
however, no functional changes—from those of the human yet be identified.
sample (electronic supplementary material, table S4) and the Furthering the work done by other researchers [8,9,14,20],