
ar _ MG = pt. p24 202
plant responses: acquisition of a beneficial symbiont and a and W = Wrmax (1 — WG@i + a22 — ) +07 + aoa).

direct plant response to the environmental selection—the stan- (5-1)
dard quantitative genetic response. What happens when both
evolutionary processes are possible—which one will domi- For equal heritabilities and variances of Z; and Z3, evol-
nate? This question is somewhat more fundamental than ution of Z, proceeds at a rate @ times that of Z,. The
those addressed above in that, here, the question is whether quantitative genetics model thus shows that a symbiont
to expect the plant to evolve an association with the symbiont with a large beneficial effect on plant phenotype can allow
at all or just evolve the response on its own. Of course, should the plant to evolve faster than it evolves via a typical, direct
the plant be unable to respond to the selection, then a symbiont genetic response to the selection. Perhaps surprisingly, the
is the only possible solution. But there may be many cases rate of evolution does not depend on the mere fact that the
when both responses are possible. symbiont can ultimately provide a (much) higher final fitness
Initial insight to alternative pathways of evolution may than genetics alone. Instead, the relative rate of evolution
be sought by considering the trivial model of two bi-allelic depends on how the genetic variation in symbiont ‘accep-
loci, A/a and B/b: the A allele directly increases the plant tance’ by the plant translates into variation in plant fitness;
phenotype in a beneficial way, the B allele does so through if increases in zz lead to smaller improvements in pheno-
acquisition of a symbiont. It is straightforward that which- type/fitness than do corresponding increases in z,, then the
ever allele has the larger fitness effect will increase more intrinsic genetic response will evolve faster—up to the point
rapidly at the outset (before the two alleles start interfering that genetic variation is exhausted. For symbiont-based adap-
with each other). Even if the symbiont is capable of a large tation to dominate, the plant must translate symbiont
beneficial response, however, the average effect of B may be acquisition into a larger genetic effect than operates without

reduced either if the symbiont is not everywhere available the symbiont.