ent insect taxa. In ยง5, I consider some strategies to test for this article is that the approaches and insights of the mature dis-
conservation of GRN structure in different insect taxa with cipline of evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo) offer
bacteriocytes of different developmental origins. the symbiosis researcher valuable signposts to investigate this

How might a symbiosis GRN that determines the develop- topic. There are two important questions.

ment of a symbiotic organ be activated or inactivated over First: what is the evolutionary relationship between a sym-
evolutionary time? Consider a situation where a product of biotic organ and other structures in the animal host? Symbiotic
the microbial partner contributes to the regulatory circuit, but organs are often described as evolutionary novelties. Although
the ecology of the host then shifts, for example, to habitats this perspective draws attention to how animals have
that do not support free-living populations of horizontally responded to selection to sustain and optimize interactions
acquired symbionts or to conditions (e.g. temperature) that with microbial symbionts, it also distracts from the obvious
are unsuitable for vertically transmitted symbionts [49,50]. fact that symbiotic organs have evolved by modification of
This would result in loss of the symbiotic organ, but a shift developmental plan(s) defining pre-existing structure(s) in
back to permissive conditions would re-activate the sym- the ancestral host. Developmental affinities, and likely evol-
biont-dependent GRN. Host genetic changes may also utionary origins, are evident for some symbiotic organs. For
contribute to evolutionary switching between the presence example, the midgut ceca housing Burkholderia in various het-
and absence of symbiotic organs. The evo-devo literature eropteran insects (figure 2b) are a remarkable elaboration of the
reminds us that the genetic changes may be relatively small, distal midgut, and future research on evolutionary origins of
involving single regulatory sequences. For example, the fresh- the ceca will be facilitated by knowledge of the molecular
water three-spined stickleback fish Gasterosteus aculeatus and cellular basis of midgut development and homeostasis in
lacks the pelvic fin of its marine ancestor. This evolutionary other insects, particularly Drosophila [55]. Similarly, the strong

change can be attributed to the loss of an enhancer sequence parallels in developmental origin and structure of the light
