species was initially at a fitness optimum with respect to the challenge. Such changes were documented for single microbial — =:
environment prior to the environmental change. Our views strains with the help of controlled evolution experiments and 5!
are related to inspiring previous opinion and perspectives occurred within a few weeks, possibly faster. For example,a = >
articles [17-19]. In our article, we specifically consider currently selected member of the zebrafish microbiome, a strain of the =
neglected processes, especially different eco-evolutionary Gram-negative bacterium Aeromonas veronii, was able to &
dynamics and feedbacks in host-associated microbial commu- adapt in several steps to a specific host line under the exper- =
nities and how they affect distinct evolutionary responses in imental conditions, including initially improved colonization S
the host over a range of time scales, including both adaptive of the fish from the environment, and enhanced host-to-host N
and maladaptive changes. It is highly likely that the transfer, followed later by intra-host adaptation and increased s
microbiome influences host adaptation across different organiz- competitive ability [30]. Similarly, an experimental symbiont B
ational levels and time scales. We currently lack the data to of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, a strain of the Gram-
assess which of these time scales and/or levels may be more positive bacterium Enterococcus faecalis, rapidly adapted to
influential. In fact, their importance may vary among host- provide increased levels of host protection from a pathogenic
microbiome systems and environmental context. We anticipate bacterium [20,21,31] (see box 2). In addition, microbes
that the developed framework will help future research to were also shown to adapt genetically within a community
more precisely query the role of different time scales and organ- [32]. For example, using experimental evolution with gnotobi-
izational levels in microbiome-mediated host adaptation. Below, otic mouse hosts, a gut-colonizing Escherichia coli was
we begin by describing different types of changes that can occur demonstrated to adapt through changes in anaerobic respiration
within the microbiome across different time periods and which to the presence of a single additional microbiome member,
are the basis of any subsequent effect on host adaptation (§2). while increased consumption of specific amino acids was
Subsequently, we explore in the core section of our article (§3) selected when E. coli was alone [33]. In a related experiment
in what way the microbiome may influence host adaptive with distinct E. coli strains, adaptation of the focal E. coli strain
responses across distinct time scales. We emphasize that the was enhanced by horizontal gene transfer [34], highlighting
microbiome may also have detrimental effects on host adap- the importance of a process that is particular to communities
tation (§4). Several important ramifications arise from our and that can speed up adaptation through uptake of favourable