
expected to decrease the initial growth rate of an invading simplicity, we suppose the ability for pathogens to infect


the host and the ability for the host and its microbiome to modify in ways that could influence microbial interactions | 5 |
resist them can be quantified by one-dimensional numbers. towards favourable (to it) competitive outcomes.
The outcome of invasion by a pathogen is then determined
by whether its intrinsic ability to establish within the host

environment is greater than the combined resistance of the (a) Regulation of available resources
microbiome and innate host defences. To maximize pathogen resistance, it might seem that hosts
We take as our starting point a host with a baseline level should minimize the nutrients that support microbial
of innate defences that harbours a commensal microbiome growth in their immediate exterior. In fact they seem to do
capable of resisting a non-negligible fraction of pathogens the opposite. Plants secrete 5-25% of their photosynthetically
that the host encounters (figure 2, row 1). We consider this fixed carbon into the surrounding soil as mucilage, where it is
a reasonable default given the impracticality of completely consumed by microbes [56-58]. Humans feed the great mass
eliminating commensals and the likelihood that any micro- of bacteria in their large intestine with non-host-digestible = =
biome provides at least some resistance. In this context, a polysaccharides as well as carbohydrates secreted by host ©
new host trait that harms all microbes can improve pathogen epithelial cells into intestinal mucus [53,59]. Mammal and __
resistance, but not as much as would be naively expected bird skin contains glands that harbour commensal microbes =
because such a trait will also reduce the competitive resist- and secrete lipids they can consume [60,61]. =
ance provided by commensals (figure 2, row 2). A host trait Microbial provisioning by hosts has several non-mutually = =
that can be targeted to harm pathogens and not commensals exclusive explanations. Plant mucilage can lubricate roots =
will offer a great improvement to pathogen defence since the and stabilize soil [56], and animal consumption of non- = &
commensal competition is maintained (figure 2, row 3). digestible polysaccharides can be a side-effect of eating =