ATP is required to reverse these ion fluxes [157]. Secondly, in chrome c oxidase levels can be higher than those in BS
the presence of inhibition, more excitatory inputs are required pyramidal cells [167,168]. By contrast to excitatory neurons,
for a cell to reach its threshold for firing an action potential. interneurons are generally expected to consume more
This happens because excitation needs to counter both hyper- oxygen to fuel action potentials than synaptic potentials,
polarization of the membrane and shunting inhibition—the because of their lower dendritic complexity but increased
increased membrane conductance caused by the opening of axonal length and branching [171] (but also see [149]). Nota-
chloride or potassium channels that impairs the spread of bly, the populations of interneurons that are likely to make
EPSPs to the axon hillock. The increased sodium driving the largest contribution to brain oxygen consumption may
force and the requirement for more synaptic inputs both criti- not be the same as those that control blood flow: fast-spiking
cally depend on the timing of inhibitory inputs, with increased parvalbumin cells are very metabolically active, but may not
temporal overlap between inhibitory and excitatory inputs to a play a major role in the control of blood flow, while nNOS-
single cell predicted to dramatically impact the energy cost of positive interneurons can control blood flow but make up
neuronal transmission [157]. In fact, inhibitory and excitatory only 20% of all interneurons [42] and 2% of all neurons
inputs to hippocampal and cortical neurons are often 172], and hence are likely to be relatively underrepresented
near-synchronous during fast sharp-wave ripple [158,159], in CMRO). Therefore, positive BOLD and calibrated BOLD
theta-like [160] and slow (less than 1 Hz) oscillations [161], CMRO, measurements provide very different information
suggesting that inhibition is likely to increase the energy about which types of inhibitory cells are active.
used to fuel excitatory neurons in these conditions. This Experimentally, inhibition has been shown to have a
‘tight balance’ of excitation and marginally delayed inhibition significant energetic cost. 2-Deoxyglucose uptake (and by
to individual principal neurons is a common (though not uni- extrapolation, metabolism) was more correlated with the
versal) feature of neural networks, which increases the degree of inhibition than pyramidal cell firing after the electri-
precision of spike timing and makes coding more efficient cal stimulation of hippocampal inputs in rats [173]. Similarly,
by reducing the number of spikes needed to accurately rep- in rat dentate gyrus, low-frequency stimulation of the perfor-
resent information at the population level [162]. Thus, brain ant path decreased EPSP slope and population spike
networks may offset increased synaptic energy use caused latency (suggesting increased inhibitory tone), and decreased