fMRI [98], make minimal assumptions about the shape of the meaningful to consider the patterns of activity rather than

HRF [87,99], while other approaches employ canonical HRFs whether they go up and down.
and then correlate the degree of such ‘fits’ across voxels. Impor- By focusing on patterns and their relationship to infor-
tantly, the main advantage of both pattern classification and mation, rather than focal activation going up or down in
analysis (referred to as MVPA here) is that they pick up on response to a stimulus, one can avoid problematic interpret-
both weakly and strongly active voxels, which can move in ations inherent in interpreting BOLD related to baseline, and,
either direction relative to baseline. perhaps most importantly for our current considerations, the
By contrast, univariate approaches focus on modelling magnitude of those changes. Such MVPA techniques can also
changes in the HRF one voxel at a time, typically as the same readily be performed on numerous different types of electro-
function across the brain, and then determine how well the con- physiological recordings and related to perceptual and
volution of this function with the behavioural variables of memory processes, including scalp EEG, MEG, ECoG and
interest fit the observed fMRI patterns across all voxels in the single-neuron activity [84,95,96,103,104]. Some studies in fact
brain. Subsequent analyses then focus on finding clusters of suggest striking consistencies between MVPA of fMRI and
activation that exceed some threshold, allowing determination single-neuron recordings in monkeys [105,106]. Since the
of whether activation in these clusters increased or decreased scale of the patterns of voxels is somewhat arbitrary, one can
relative to baseline. The issue with this approach, however, is increase or decrease the resolution of neural recordings to
that an increase or decrease in activation is difficult to interpret more directly compare with MVPA techniques from fMRI by
directly in terms of underlying electrophysiological activity filtering or averaging. MVPA also does not typically employ
because the electrophysiological basis of the BOLD signal is spatial smoothing, allowing determination of how information
regionally variable. In addition, the basis of LFP changes can in each voxel might relate to electrophysiological signals inde-
include different contributions from action potentials, excit- pendently from their neighbour. In this way, one can perform
atory and inhibitory post-synaptic potentials—all of which more principled comparisons of what sorts of information
are difficult if not impossible to determine for any given are carried at the different scales of fMRI and neural recordings,
patch of tissue. Finally, the haemodynamic response function although one loses the ability to directly relate an increase or