
decisions tend to show the opposite biases: an effect that is 3. Decision under risk in monkeys
only partially explained by incomplete sampling [55,63,64,66]. In this section, we try to address the question of whether mon-
In description-based choices, a behavioural hallmark of keys are a good experimental model for human decision-
loss aversion (overweighting of negative outcomes) is the reflec- making under uncertainty. We will focus this survey on
tion effect, where subjects are risk averse in the gain domain and rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) results because most electro-
risk seeking in the loss domain. The opposite pattern has been physiological studies are performed in this species (but see
repeatedly found in the experience-based decisions [67]. This [44] for a more detailed review including other primates).
observation may be explained by biases in the learning process, Asking whether monkeys are a good experimental model trans-
such as remembering preferentially extreme outcomes or inte- lates into asking whether in the laboratory setting their
grating preferentially better-than-expected outcomes [72,77]. behaviour displays the distinctive features and biases observed
Finally, a smaller subset of studies investigated a hybrid situ- in humans. We stress again that the comparison is complicated
ation where decision problems are fully described, choices by the fact that pure description-based paradigms cannot exist

are repeated and followed by a trial-by-trial feedback. These in monkey studies because of the lack of language. In fact, in


Box 1. Description- and experience-based behavioural models.

In this box, we sketch the formalisms standardly employed to explain and quantify risk preferences in description-based and
experience-based decisions. Description and experience paradigms radically differ in how they model decision under risk. In
the description domain, risk preferences are the direct result of subjective deformations of probabilities and outcomes that are
explicitly stated. On the other side, in the experience domain there is no separate representation of outcomes’ probabilities
and no explicit deformation of outcomes’ values. Consequently, risk preferences are the indirect result of the learning process
