individual level, some subjects may in fact display opposite biases in both experimental settings [72,76]. If inter-individual
variability is equally high in other primates, the fact that monkey studies use very small sample size (figure 2) can contribute
to explaining the comparably less consistent picture observed (table 1).

monkey studies, whenever outcomes and probabilities are con- choices using either model-free or model-based measures
veyed via a symbolic system, the system is nonetheless learned [81,82,101].
and maintained by trial-by-trial outcomes (ie. a situation simi- Finally, it can be argued that if monkeys are a good mode!
lar to the ‘description plus experience’ paradigm, described for human decision-making under uncertainty, they should
above). In such ‘pseudo’ description-based paradigm, monkeys display a description-experience gap. To our knowledge, so
are trained to associate continuous variations in one visual fea- far only one study explicitly tackled this issue [102]. Monkeys
ture (e.g. colour or size) to continuous variations of a decision were asked to make repeated choices between safe, and risky
variable (e.g. outcomes or probabilities). The comparison is options, whose outcome probability was either learned by
further complicated by the fact that only few studies formalize experience or described by the ratio between colours on a rec-
risk preferences in terms of model parameters (such as prob- tangle. Replicating previous findings in monkeys, and in
ability distortion, loss aversion or learning rates) and data discordance with the standard result in humans, Heilbronner
reporting is often limited to behavioural measures. and Hayden found that monkeys were risk-seekers in the
The general picture (table 1) emerging from ‘pseudo’ description domain. However, consistent with the gap
description-based paradigms in monkeys (i.e. studies relying observed in humans, they also found that risk-seeking
on learned symbolic systems to communicate values) is, at behaviour was higher for experience-based cues.
best, mixed. PT has been explicitly tested in paradigms using To summarize, the literature seems to suggest that monkeys’
visual cues carrying symbolic information similar to those pre- decision-making for experience-based choice is quite consistent
sented to humans (e.g. pie-charts). Only a few studies show with what is observed in humans in terms of risk preference.
results in conformity with the pattern of description-based This is consistent with a large body of literature showing that
decisions observed in humans. Risk aversion, suggestive of the neural substrates of reinforcement learning are largely pre-
marginally decreasing utility in the gain domain, has been served in the two species [103,104]. Risk seeking in this context