However, it allows us to see how decisions develop with these games have been given little attention in humans; if we
experience and minimizes the risk of inadvertent pre-train- use the typical human procedure, where the participants are
ing. In the second, it is very difficult to avoid the training given an explanation of the game and a payoff matrix to
biasing the subjects’ eventual choices (i.e. if they are aware explain what their potential outcomes are, not to mention a
that there is an option that sometimes results in a preferred possible pre-test to ensure that they understand it, coordi-
outcome, they may be more predisposed to play it irrespec- nation on the higher-paying equilibrium point is by far the
tive of their cooperation preferences), but there is more most common response. However, some have argued that
confidence that they understand their different options, despite this (potentially misleading) laboratory consistency,
which can give more certainty when exploring how their this game is quite important. Not only are many very interest-
choices are impacted by changing contexts. ing human decisions often best described by coordination, but
In either case, one indication that they understand the in the real world, with imperfect information, coordination
task is if they find the Nash equilibrium (NE), which is the faces many barriers [27]. Indeed, while both coordination
option that maximizes a subjects’ benefit given the choice points are Nash equilibria, the lower-payoff NE is, in fact, rela-
the partner is making.” This will, of course, sound familiar tively more attractive when one doubts one’s opponent's
to anyone studying animal behaviour as it is reminiscent of ability to find or interest in choosing the higher-paying equili-
the cost-benefit approach used in ethology. Indeed, there is brium point. This makes this a much less straightforward, and
no a priori reason why animals should not be able to maxi- much more interesting and relevant, game in real life. These
mize in these situations, nor does the mere fact of doing so characteristics hold for other species as well. In addition,
suggest that they recognize that they are interacting with a there is a practical reason to use it: if individuals understand
partner. For instance, in coordination games the subjects’ the laboratory task, they should always coordinate, making
best options are aligned, so finding the NE does not require it a good test of whether other species understand the pro-
understanding their partner's role. However, we can look at cedure before moving to more complex games, where they
features such as order of play, or whether they play differ- may not choose to play the NE even though they understand
ently with different partners, to begin to address this issue. the procedure and their options.
Importantly, when I discuss results I am always discussing Most of the primates tested thus far have found the NE in