a subject sample that may not extrapolate well to the broader charts in paediatric medicine [24,25]. For example, by plotting
population). However, the specification of the priors over biological parameters as a function of age (or other clinically
model parameters is often a point of criticism for Bayesian relevant variables), normative modelling enables statistical
methods. This is because it can often be difficult to specify conclusions as to where the network coupling profile of each
informative priors if the number of variables is large or the individual participant falls within the population range. This
dependencies between them are complex, such as in many bio- modelling tactic can therefore be used to chart variability in bio-
logical systems [15]. Moreover, it is often not straightforward to logical networks relevant to many disorders including autism
specify priors that convey a lack of prior knowledge [4,16]. and detect the biological signatures of brain disorders in an
Nevertheless, it is important to recognize that any network anomaly detection setting [26].

modelling framework is predicated on certain assumptions. In such applications, the primary interest is in modelling

The fact that the Bayesian approach forces these to be made inter-individual variation across the cohort while accounting
explicit by the investigator can be viewed as a strength. for modelling uncertainty such as noise intrinsic to the functional

magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals from brain net-
works. For such neuroscience applications, the ability to

2. Notions of probability: methodological jointly model different sources of variation and appreciate
. . . «yar uncertainty in the same modelling instance is an important
uncertal nty and biol ogical vari abil ity advantage of the Bayesian culture. For example, using Bayesian
The type of probability that is actually being modelled is an methods, the investigator can use separate variance components
important distinction that is often under-appreciated across bio- to model variation in age-related connection strength across a
logical sciences and in network-based research on the brain in population cohort and the uncertainty in that estimation, due,
particular. Under the Bayesian conceptualization, probabilities for example, to data sampling density (e.g. fewer female sub-