genitals. Due to the size of the rhesus scrotum, the adult (chosen option model: OFC, 1 [1.8%]; LPFC 1 [1.6%]/offered S
male ano-genital area (AGA) is comparatively larger and vis- option model OFC, 0; LPFC, 0) despite monkeys’ strong ©
ible at a wider range of viewing angles than the perinea of ordinal preferences. =
females or juveniles (juveniles comprising the majority of LPFC, as a whole, responded vigorously and phasically to 5
the ‘unsexed’ prominently visible AGAs in the video data- the onset of videos, but not to the blank screen condition ==
base). This larger ‘natural scale’ means that gaze foci within (which involved no change in the visual stimulus). OFC, by con- >
the male AGA are more likely to be widely separated com- trast, appeared to show a much greater overall increase in __
pared to multiple gaze foci within a non-male AGA, hence activity throughout video presentation and a marked phasic — =:
the negative effect of the factor ‘male genitals’ on gaze consist- response to the end of the video (at which time the screen = 5!
ency. The result of the model for this feature highlights a returned to a neutral grey colour). Notably, LPFC exhibiteda = 5
limitation of gaze consistency as a metric: an effect of the phasic response to the delivery of juice following blank presen- =
stimulus on gaze behaviour can manifest as either a positive tations, but not to juice delivery following videos, possibly = &
or negative change in gaze consistency, and the magnitude reflecting the fact that the end of the video playback was a =
of change in gaze consistency cannot necessarily be compared reliable predictor of upcoming juice delivery, whereas nosimilar >!
between different types of stimuli. visual cue occurred at the end of the blank screen ‘playback’ =~
Despite this caveat, the model fitted to the gaze consist- period. Also of note, within both LPFC and OFC, many neurons S
ency data reveals a number of intriguing patterns. As with showed activation patterns that deviated from the population Ey
gaze onscreen, gaze consistency decreased with the presence averages (figure 4c), suggesting that there was considerably
of a prominently visible face in the scene. However, unlike more information contained within the activity of these
gaze onscreen, which showed little change as the view of a ensembles as a whole than is reflected in the population mean.
face moved from prominent, to direct, to making eye contact To understand whether the content of the FV scenes modu-
with the camera, the trend for gaze consistency reversed, lated the activity of individual neurons, we compared activity
rising with these increasingly ‘intense’ views of a face. This during trials in which specific behaviours occurred against
finding is consistent with previous reports that monkeys’ those in which they did not. Example neurons in both
scan patterns of faces tend to be highly stereotyped. Also OFC and LPFC (figure 7a,b) showed strong modulation by