be cautious about generalizing their experimental results. and the players, and further rules such as the number of =
The small methodological change they introduce in their periods, of moves allowed, the modalities of encounters = &
experimental setting routinely used for the measure of risk- between players, and the degree of mutual information ©
attitudes reverses a typical conclusion. It becomes illusory to they can share). This indeed allows a stepwise analysis of S
qualify chimpanzees, as a species, as being ‘risk-seeking’ or the performance of different individuals of possibly different —
‘risk-averse’. species when some of the components of a game are inde- S
The risk of over-generalization and essentialization of pendently manipulated. Brosnan reviews the results that 3
experimentally elicited behavioural features is clearly accentu- have been obtained through a large number of such structural
ated by the coupling of a routine experiment and a routine manipulations. She is interested in the typical results
behavioural model instrumental for data-fitting. The degree obtained in those experiments and interprets them as assess-
to which the free behavioural variables of the model are satis- ments of the propensity to cooperate or the ability to
fied by the collected data is supposed to tell us something coordinate actions, but not in a typical way. In particular,
about the phenotypic dispositions of an individual or a just to mention a central fact, she emphasizes that an individ-
group of individuals. There are several ways to exert contin- ual action can be optimally aligned with another and yielded
ued caution and avoid such hasty conclusions. One is to a Nash equilibrium of a game without the players having
submit the behavioural variables of a model to a robustness been aware of playing their part of a coordinate strategy.
check before submitting them to the verdict of experimen- It could just happen that, by simply looking for their
tation over a (usually) small population sample. Is it in fact own payoff, those self-centred individuals coordinated
plausible that, if by ‘any chance’ the degree of fit between their action in an optimal way. It requires quite another
the model and the data is significant, such a correlation can understanding of the game to reach coordination by taking
be soundly interpretable? This is clearly the concern that into account the motives and incentives of other players.
Nioche et al. [41] had in mind when, following a recent multi- Chimpanzees understand that their action is part of a
plication of studies showing to what extent different species collective strategy, capuchins monkeys do not. Through
of monkeys behaved as predicted by Prospect Theory (e.g. game-theoretical manipulations one can thus directly com-
[42-44]), they wondered whether the variables of that model pare, across species and types of economic problems