

evaluate each option with time and experience, or explored the or wild individuals. Age can also impact decision-making | 12 |

motivational factors involved [10]. Further studies with more strategies under risk and ambiguity in young and adolescent
in-depth econometrics measures are needed to investigate humans compared to adults [63-66], but this factor was taken
these questions in our set up. into account as it was implemented as a random factor in the =

The current results raise the difficult question of interspe- main model. Additional work is needed on the responses of 3
cies differences and whether the latter could be explained by these species under ambiguity and how this may be linked to
different cognitive toolboxes and/or different socioecology both their socioecology and/or cognitive limitations.
[60]. The ability of chimpanzees and orangutans to combine Each species produced its own solution when faced with
facts and abstractions in this study contrasts with the simpli- ambiguity. Some are based on facts and ignore invisible cues,
city of the responses of bonobos and capuchins, which used while others are based on decision rules combining observa- = =
simpler decision rules. We expected the strategies of great ble facts and expectations. More detailed analyses would be = 5
apes to be more complex than those of monkeys, using required to evaluate decisions at the individual level. Here, =
more steps and more adjustments to various modalities of we used a new methodological approach that can detect ©
the task. However, the responses of gorillas and macaques the diversity of strategies at the species level while taking Ss
are intermediate and not so clear-cut. The response of bono- into account individual repetitions. All species successfully = =
bos can also be considered surprising, i.e. a behaviour that is applied one strategy that would minimize the potentially dis- 5!
very much like that of capuchins. One possibility is that ruptive role of ambiguity. Given that ambiguous situations = >
responses here are not connected to their cognitive abilities are likely to be frequently met in the environment, this =
but rather to the more general difficulty bonobos have deal- response is unsurprising. Interestingly, we did not find any = &
ing with risk and ambiguity in comparison to chimpanzees, evidence of strong ambiguity aversion (gambling solely for =
which could be linked to the feeding ecology of each species risky lotteries, for example) as the individuals could gamble >}