are intermediate and not so clear-cut. The response of bono- into account individual repetitions. All species successfully = =
bos can also be considered surprising, i.e. a behaviour that is applied one strategy that would minimize the potentially dis- 5!
very much like that of capuchins. One possibility is that ruptive role of ambiguity. Given that ambiguous situations = >
responses here are not connected to their cognitive abilities are likely to be frequently met in the environment, this =
but rather to the more general difficulty bonobos have deal- response is unsurprising. Interestingly, we did not find any = &
ing with risk and ambiguity in comparison to chimpanzees, evidence of strong ambiguity aversion (gambling solely for =
which could be linked to the feeding ecology of each species risky lotteries, for example) as the individuals could gamble >}
[24,40,60]. However, both species exhibited similar ambiguity regardless of the amount of information available. One possi-
aversion when compared in an ambiguous gambling game bility is that our set up was not ambiguous enough to elicit S
where they had no information about the odds [24]. This logi- such a strong ambiguity aversion. Indeed, the lack of infor- 3
cally leads to the question of whether each species could be mation could be overcome by various strategies such as
influenced by a specific attitude towards risk and ambiguity. guessing, ignoring or imagining the presence of a reward
The fact that capuchins, chimpanzees, orangutans and goril- hidden in the cups. Further studies with increased levels of
las gambled above 50% of the time for the risky 1 LRv lottery ambiguity may be needed to evaluate how these species
may suggest risk-seeking behaviour (table 2). Several studies cope in this context. Making a decision based on the
using standard risky choice tasks have reported marked atti- amount of information (high under risk, low under ambigu-
tudes towards risk in capuchins (risk seekers, [39]), macaques ity) rather than a purely automatic rejection of ambiguity
(risk seekers [61]), bonobos (risk avoiders [40]) and chimpan- appears to be less costly in terms of survival and was most
zees (risk seekers, [40]). However, these attitudes strongly probably promoted through natural selection.
depend on various parameters including the type of task It is still unclear whether the strategies observed in this
(in macaques [59]), or experience with the set up (in maca- study reflect those used by individuals in their everyday
ques [62]). In a former study using a risky food gambling lives when dealing with ecological and social challenges
task very similar to the current one, we showed that capu- in captivity, and whether these strategies reflect the
chins, macaques, chimpanzees, gorillas and bonobos were decision-making profile of their wild counterparts. None-
mostly risk averse [10]. In the current study, we did not theless, showing that some great apes could use advanced