pathway in this system. RNAi alone (p<0.0001 in comparison with control and
Therefore, we explored Arf6 involvement in clathrin- p=0.59 in comparison with Flotillinl RNAi, figure 4e,g).
independent endocytic pathways. As Drosophila has no Therefore, the stabilization of E-cad by Flotillin-Arf6 is required
orthologues of the mammalian caveolae, we turned to Flotillins for correct cell elongation.
54,55]. To explore the connection between Flotillin and We recently found that hyperstabilization of E-cad, by
Arf6, we measured the effect of knocking-down Flotillin1 on overexpressing p120ctn or inhibiting endocytosis by expres-
Arf6-GFP (figure 3f,g) [33,56]. We downregulated Flotillin1 sing the dominant-negative variant of dynamin Shibire, has a =
using two independent RNAi lines (results were identical for similar phenotype: reduced cell elongation [7]. The current 5!
both). A significant decrease of Arf6-GFP at the PM was study alongside our previous work suggests that the correct =
detected at both cell borders in cells expressing the Flotillin1 dynamics of intercellular adhesion are crucial for cell =
RNAi (p=0.002, p<0.0001, figure 3f,g). This decrease was elongation and tissue architecture: if E-cad is too stable or too = &
accompanied by an increase in Arf6-GFP signal in the cyto- dynamic, cells fail to expand their long borders to a normal =
plasm, suggesting a defect in Arf6 recruitment rather than extent. This further highlights the fact that all E-cad subcom- = >!
total protein levels (p=0.018, electronic supplementary plexes contribute to cell shape regulation. However, it is N
material, figure S1D). Therefore, Arf6 is recruited to the PM tempting to speculate that they do so through different mech- S
downstream of Flotillin1, suggesting that Arfé functions in a anisms: while endocytosis of mobile E-cad enables membrane =
Flotillin-mediated pathway. and thus junctional remodelling required for elongation,
Therefore, we wondered if Flotillin1 could be upstream of immobilization of stable E-cad is rather more likely to stabilize
the stabilizing effect that Arf6 had on E-cad, and if the cell the junctions following remodelling. Therefore, it is the nature
shape defect we observed when perturbing Arf6 was due to of adhesion rather than simply levels that is crucial for correct
this pathway. We found that the levels of E-cad-GFP were elev- tissue architecture.
ated at both the AP and DV cell borders upon Flotillin1 One interesting question that we were unable to address is
downregulation with RNAi (p = 0.0025, p = 0.0005, figure 4a,b), what accounts for this dual function of Arf6 and Flotillin: they
similar to what we observed for Arf6 (figure 2c-e). To determine are involved in both stabilization and the regulation of E-cad
if Flotillin1 was also altering the turnover of cell adhesion, levels at the PM, with the latter suggesting an endocytic com-