socioecomic status are more prosocial than subjects with high been too simplistic to investigate how prosociality in one
socioeconomic status [24,25,55]. Because of the similar archi- individual is modulated by the frequency of prosociality in
tecture supporting social cognition in humans and macaques the partner. It is possible that a lack of change in the actor’s
[4], we hypothesize that this effect might reflect distinct behaviour may have reflected the fact that a single common
organization of human societies. Different social organization visual stimulus was used as the target before and after the
in primates has been related to differences in socio-cognitive task manipulations were instigated. Therefore, a different
tasks. While rhesus macaques are known to have a very hier- protocol varying the order in which the different targets are
archical social organization, Tonkean macaques have a more learned and with different targets for each experimental con-
tolerant social organization [30,56]. They have been shown to dition should be considered in future studies. Finally,
perform better than rhesus macaques in some social and cog- although kinship, social proximity between actor, and partner
nitive tasks [57]. In addition, while dominant humans might or ingroup versus outgroup effects have been shown to
be relatively less prosocial, this does not mean that they are impact on social behaviours in apes and rhesus monkeys
insensitive to social information. In fact, dominant humans [43,65], we did not observe within-subject variability in per-
who do not use aggression to assert their dominance have formance in regards to the two familiar partners tested.
been shown to rely more on social information, in compari- Using familiar and unfamiliar partners might have resulted
son to subordinate individuals, to guide their decisions in a in different prosocial bias.
complex decision-making task [58]. Personality traits in Overall our study shows that prosocial decisions in rhesus
macaques correlate with performance in cognitive tasks macaques are strongly modulated by social status and by
59]. Future studies about social cognition in non-human some contextual factors. Individuals with a high social
primates should consider this dimension too. status were more prone to choose the prosocial option than

In addition to social status, we have shown that external individuals with a low social status. When the social partner
factors are also important for modulating prosocial beha- was replaced by a non-social entity, prosocial decisions were
viours. The context in which social decisions are made almost abolished. When prosocial decisions were costly,
