did. In the luminance condition, avoiding imagining failed to 5-8%) have this condition: they lack conscious mental imagery.
produce the same priming effect as avoiding imagining without While it would of course be possible to argue that subjects
the luminance manipulation did (or as straight imagining did). with aphantasia are not really unaware of their mental imagery,

These results strongly indicate that it is unconscious mental this may be a more difficult (in any case, different) move
imagery that primes the binocular rivalry pattern. Remember compared with arguing against unconscious priming or uncon-
that subjects had to indicate if their attempt to avoid imagining scious perception in unilateral neglect. So this line of argument
a red apple broke down. So we know that those subjects whose may convince some sceptics who are not convinced by any
attempt to avoid imagining a red apple did not break down had arguments concerning unconscious perception.
no awareness of any red mental imagery during the 7 s period. A subject has aphantasia when she reports not having mental
This unconscious episode nonetheless produced the same prim- imagery—this is a behavioural category. And, as a result, aphan-
ing effect as the conscious one did. Finally, we know that this tasia may havea number of diverse underlying conditions. Some
unconscious episode was in fact unconscious mental imagery subjects with aphantasia have difficulties voluntarily conjuring
(and not some kind of unconscious higher-level (maybe linguis- up mental imagery, but they do report mental imagery when
tic) representation) given that sensory presentation of an dreaming, for example. Some others report no mental imagery
irrelevant sensory stimulus interfered with the priming effect. at all—either voluntary or involuntary [75].

The authors of this study did not explicitly draw the con- In other words, aphantasia is not a monolithic category.
clusion that the experiment demonstrates the presence of Some aphantasics dream vivid dreams, clearly involving con-
unconscious mental imagery, but at least one of the authors scious visual imagery [76]. But they have problems with the
of the study would be open to this interpretation (see [17], control of conscious visual imagery. Others have no con-
but see also [71]). scious visual imagery at all. My claim is that at least in

some cases of aphantasia, we can explain the behaviour of
the subjects better if we postulate that they have unconscious