rather to various higher-level, attentionally involved regions. imagery has an impact on the binocular rivalry pattern. The
In other words, imaginal neglect patients have early per- question is whether unconscious mental imagery has a simi-
ceptual processing in the contralesional side of the visual lar impact. Consider the following experiment [65]. Subjects
cortex that is not triggered directly by sensory input. And were shown a two-word description of an object on the
this early perceptual processing is entirely unconscious. screen for 3s, which included either the word ‘red’ or the
They have unconscious mental imagery. word ‘green’ (‘red apple’, ‘red chilli’, ‘green apple’, etc.).

After this, they were instructed either to imagine or to
avoid imagining the described object (say, the red apple).
This was followed by a 7s period when the subjects were

5. Priming supposed to imagine or avoid imagining this object. In the
An important set of findings that show that perception can be ‘avoid imagining’ condition, if the subject did in fact, in
unconscious involve unconscious priming. The general struc- spite of the instructions, imagine a red apple (or anything
ture of the argument here is that we can infer that the subject red), they had to push a button indicating this.
perceived something unconsciously if (i) the subject has no After this priming phase, the subjects did the classic binocu-
conscious awareness of the stimulus presented perceptually lar rivalry task, with red stimulus presented to one of the eyes
to her and (ii) this unconscious presentation of the stimulus and green to the other and the subjects had to report which
primes her (often in very similar ways to that the conscious colour was dominant. A number of control conditions were
presentation of the stimulus does). added, the most important of which was identical to the
There is a large number of findings that follow this ‘avoid imagining’ condition, with the exception that during
general pattern when it comes to showing that perception the 7s when the subject was supposed to avoid imagining, a
can be unconscious (see §2 for references). But the same gen- highly luminous (neither green nor red but neutral yellow)
eral argument could be modified to show that mental stimulus was presented in the subject’s visual field (figure 1).
imagery can be unconscious. In this case, we could infer The experimenters found that subjects’ binocular rivalry