activation our body, our physical surroundings and specific objects and
According to most accounts, effortful retrieval discriminates people. If we dwell upon such features, we are able to volun-
a stored event from alternatives through a top-down reiterat- tarily generate memories in response to most of them, as
ive process, where erroneous alternatives are rejected until demonstrated in experiments conducted by Galton [44] and
the event sought for is successfully accessed, or the search replicated and extended by Berntsen & Hall [45]. Why do
is abandoned [38]. However, such a reiterative and effortful they not constantly trigger involuntary memories? Second,
search, by definition, cannot be responsible for the sponta- sometimes the cue does not involve a concrete contextual over-
neous activation of involuntary autobiographical memories. lap between now and then, but provides a more abstract,
One of the most intriguing questions therefore is how mem- conceptual connection [46]. In the example provided above,
ories of past events can be activated spontaneously, with no the smell of pollution is present only in the retrieval situation.
conscious search. The remembered event does not seem to involve a specific

The relevance of this question is underscored by the fact smell. Rather, in the memory, the pollution is present as a back-
that intentional retrieval of memories for past events nor- ground theme that has formed the lives of the children. Third,
mally is a prolonged process with retrieval times averaging assuming that the person in the example has several memories
around 10s in young adults (e.g. [39]). This is considerably associated with pollution or with running, why is this particu-
longer than the retrieval time typically observed in studies lar memory, and not one of the alternatives, coming to mind
on recognition or cued recall of words (e.g. [40]), suggesting during that moment?
that (intentional) retrieval of a past event is cognitively Berntsen [5] proposed that for a feature (or combination of
demanding. How, then, is it possible for events to be retrieved features) to spontaneously activate a memory of a past event,
with no or little conscious effort as in the case of involuntary its overlap with this event should be sufficiently distinct to dis-
recollections? criminate this event from alternatives. For example, if you have

Findings from both naturalistic and experimental studies only visited the Louvre once in your past, visiting the museum
