
lines of archaeological evidence with sufficient resolution to in several regions [45].
identify regional population fluctuations across a period of 3
30.000 years. Moreover, this is in keeping with the genomic z
record for episodes of Palaeolithic population replacement, S
though Loog [43] rightly cautions us about the problems 4, Archaeology, demography and life history 3
involved in using genetic data to inform about changing popu- =
lation sizes. Of course, as we have seen, the ethnographic and theo ly S
simulation studies mentioned above strongly suggest that the This recent archaeological work therefore suggests Malthus = ©
real pattern is one of short-term fluctuations around a mean was right. In his 1798, ‘Essay on the Principle of Population’, =
value determined by environmental productivity. However, he predicted that rapid human population growth would con- 5
in future we can potentially bridge the gap between the two tinually outgrow its resource base, leading to inevitableboom- = =
by means of simulation, aided by the fact that the environ- bust cycles of population growth followed by decline, with =
mental record is increasingly high resolution well back into mortality crises and drops in fertility levelling the population Ss
the past, even when the archaeological record is not. whenever it grew beyond environmental carrying capacity or = =
However, we also still need more work on explaining why when carrying capacity declined. As a result, human popu- 5S!
specific carrying capacities are what they are. One example of lation growth over the long-term was very low, though not = >
the issue is pointed out by Schmidt et al. [3] and emerges zero. Our behavioural flexibility and reliance on culture =
from their spatial approach. In the case of the first farmers meant that we were sometimes able to partly escape from = &
in central Europe, a variety of lines of evidence confirm this ‘Malthusian trap’ by migrating into new environments— =
that regional populations grew to a peak and then declined, our species very successfully colonized almost the entire >
but even at the peak it seems that there were areas whose globe while we were largely hunter-gatherers. Indeed, the s
temperature, precipitation and soil conditions were ideal for rapid population growth rates during colonization episodes s
their farming system, ie. they were exactly the same as that have been revealed in some of these papers confirm the = =
areas that were extensively occupied, but remained empty. reproductive success of such dispersal strategies [46]. We