do populations. volume of dates needed, application of the method is often
The proportion of the total population that died during restricted to regional, large-scale palaeodemographic research
childhood should, logically, be able to tell us something aims. Depending on the amount of research undertaken in a
about the fertility and rate of natural increase of that popu- geographical region and the availability of funding, resources
lation. A growing, highly fertile living population will have a and samples to undertake radiocarbon dating, there may
higher proportion of juveniles and we would expect the be some cases where the temporal scale is limited by the
deceased population to reflect this structure. As discussed ear- unavailability of large, sufficiently long-spanning radiocarbon
lier, juvenile to adult ratios developed by Bocquet-Appel & date datasets.
Masset [17], Buikstra et al. [25] and Bocquet-Appel [18] Skeletally based palaeodemography may offer greater
(among others) sought to minimize the issues of age-estimation spatial and, in many cases, temporal specificity, permitting
error; however, the use of demarcations at 20 years of age and comparison between samples that are closely located (e.g.
30 years of age, respectively, still leaves a reasonable error range McFadden et al. [59]); however, the confidence of these con-
(particularly for the latter), owing to the fact that age esti- clusions may be limited by small sample sizes. One way of
mation error increases with chronological age and is more overcoming the limitations of both approaches is by combining
challenging for adults. Additionally, these methods excluded their results. Downey et al. [21] compared dTFA results (in this
individuals aged 0-4 years owing to concerns regarding case referred to as a summed calibrated radiocarbon date prob-
underrepresentation in skeletal assemblages, based on a com- ability distribution (SCDPD) analysis) and Bocquet-Appel’s
bination of preservation and recovery biases. While there [18] 15P5 juvenility index, in order to cross-validate the
have been significant improvements in age-estimation methods. Using 67 cemetery datasets from Bocquet-Appel
methods over the past two decades, the methods by McFadden [60] and additional samples from other published sources, a
and Oxenham [37,38] opted to use the proportion of the total of 212 skeletal samples and some 8023 radiocarbon
total population that died as juveniles, aged 0-14 years dates were analysed. They found the juvenility indices for

(D0-14/D). This minimizes the potential for error to a single many sites had broad confidence ranges as a result of sample
