Puleston et al.’s [44] simulation study used a detailed development of agriculture and the industrial revolution.
bottom-up population ecology model to examine the way a Can the past tell us anything useful about the future?
carrying capacity emerges from the operation of low-level Are we doomed to a Malthusian cycle forever, or was
processes. They modelled an age-structured population with Malthus mistaken to think that our species will be caught per-
given vital rates, age-related calorific needs and labour petually in such a trap? This debate has raged pretty much
capacity colonizing a new area with a given area of agricultural since Malthus’ time without resolution [47,48]. So far,
land with a given potential, examining the relationship human populations have continued to grow very dramatically
between the total calorific needs of the population and the since the Industrial Revolution—global population has more
total calories available as the population grew. In contrast to than doubled in just the time the authors of this article have
the standard logistic model, which assumes that an equili- been alive—but predictions are repeatedly made that global
brium is reached, with growth rates gradually slowing down population numbers will crash, or at least that population
and population slowly levelling off, what emerges is very growth will soon slow down. Population growth rates are in
different. Exponential population growth continues at the fact now declining, having peaked in the 1960s, though popu-
maximum rate then comes to a sudden stop as the food ratio, lation momentum means global population size is likely to
the total food calories available divided by the total required, grow significantly at least into the near future; most predic-
drops below unity. This leads, without warning, to a transi- tions suggesting a peak of around 9-10 billion later this
tion phase in which fertility rates and probability of infant century [49,50].
survival suddenly drop and mortality rates sharply increase, These models, however, hinge on what will happen to fer-
heralding the beginning of an indefinite Malthusian phase of tility in the near future. Global fertility has now declined to just
reduced fertility, increased mortality and varying degrees of 2.3 children per woman, from levels of perhaps six or more
hunger. The higher the fertility and the lower the mortality children per woman on average before the modern demo-
in the growth or copial phase, when quality of life is high, graphic transition. However, fertility has proved rather
the greater the shock in terms of reduction in fertility and difficult for demographers to predict. Implicit assumptions
life expectancy as the limit suddenly hits. Importantly, the underlying the demographic transition model have tended
transition is not the result of any new external stimulus but to suggest that fertility should decline continually from high