population size [30]. This finds support in the ethnographic within time intervals that are usually beyond the resolution
data, showing that environmental productivity exerts a of archaeological proxies. Caution is equally required when
strong influence on hunter-gatherer population density inferring detailed demographic parameters, such as total ferti-
[4446]. Most likely, this holds for prehistoric hunter-gatherers lity of prehistoric hunter-gatherer women, from demographic
as well. Analyses of the relationship between archaeological models parametrized using long-term growth rates measured
population proxies and proxies of environmental productivity from archaeological proxies [5]. Such models may yield mean-
that are geographically well-linked to archaeological data have ingless results if the growth rate is not closely related to births
demonstrated that periods of population growth and decline and deaths in the study population.
were related to increases and decreases of environmental pro- Our results lead also to a potential explanation of the for-
ductivity [12,32,33]. We argue that in the case of prehistoric ager population paradox, i.e. the contradiction between the
hunter-gatherers, archaeological SPDs measure long-term high growth rates of recent hunter-gatherers and the statio-
mean population size, which, in turn, tracks environmental narity of the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic hunter-gatherers
productivity. Consequently, the long-term mean population [9]. The ostensible stationarity results from the fact that, as
size reflected in SPDs can be considered as the carrying long as humans are hunter-gatherers, their population size
capacity, i.e. theoretical equilibrium population size, around is bound by nature. The population size of hunter-gatherers,
which the true population size fluctuates. However, the true who rely on the productivity of natural resources, cannot
population size is rarely pinpointed by proxies because of the grow above the level sustained by regional productivity for
coarse resolution of the archaeological data. extended periods. Therefore, we should not expect to see
Ethnographic and historical records yield population long-term hunter-gatherer population growth that would
growth rates that are directly linked to births and deaths be independent of a corresponding increase in environmen-
and in and out migrations in the population. However, tal productivity. Similarly, if environmental productivity
because of the difference in temporal resolution and scale, declines, the hunter-gatherer population would decline
we argue that this link is much vaguer in the growth rates accordingly. This explains why we can have both annual

measured from archaeological proxies. Therefore, one has to population growth rates of up to 3% and still relatively