dreams occur in all stages of sleep. Conceptually, this is sup- ever, any differences between behavioural states will now be ©
ported by simulation views of dreaming [13]. Empirically, located within the spectrum of spontaneous thought. The differ- S
recent evidence suggests that the neural correlates of dreaming ence between sleeping and waking will then have to be drawn
are independent of sleep stages [32]. Views that confine between different subtypes of spontaneous thought, rather
dreaming to REM sleep therefore appear too narrow. than between broad categories of conscious states.

Because the sleep-stage correlates of dreaming and more Spontaneous thoughts and experiences in sleep and
generally of consciousness in sleep remain elusive, | will set wakefulness also seem well suited to the investigation of the
aside, for now, differences between sleep stages and focus state-dependence question because, by definition, they arise
on the coarse-grained distinction between sleep and wake- naturally, allowing waking mind wandering and sleep-related
fulness. This is not to deny that state-dependence could be experiences to be compared on an equal footing. The prospects
re-established under a more nuanced reading of behavioural for experimentally inducing mind wandering episodes are lim-
states and/or sleep stages. In fact, I think this is exactly ited [37,39,46-49]. Experimental manipulations are available;
the way things will optimally develop [18,20]. Here, I have for example, boring tasks, alcohol or nicotine withdrawal
three main reasons for focusing on a more coarse-grained increase the frequency of mind wandering and decrease task
view of behavioural states. One, the most widely discussed performance [27]. Yet these means of induction are indirect
alternative, which attempts to relate dreams to conventionally and leave much room for variability. This stands in contrast
defined sleep stages, has failed, and in fact, the search for the to large parts of psychology and cognitive neuroscience,
neural correlates of consciousness in sleep is now increasingly which use behavioural performance in response to experimen-
focused on differences in neural activity within NREM sleep tal tasks administered under carefully controlled conditions to
[32]. Two, a coarse-grained focus on sleep and wakefulness measure and induce specific cognitive functions. The exper-
seems best suited to the comparison between (dreamful imental induction of specific experiences is also notoriously
and dreamless) sleep-related experiences and waking mind difficult in sleep. There are some exceptions, such as sensory
wandering. Three, this also seems appropriate given there or direct brain stimulation, which can induce changes in
is no corresponding partition between stages of wakefulness.° dream content [50], as well as various lucid dream induction