and dreamless) sleep-related experiences and waking mind difficult in sleep. There are some exceptions, such as sensory
wandering. Three, this also seems appropriate given there or direct brain stimulation, which can induce changes in
is no corresponding partition between stages of wakefulness.° dream content [50], as well as various lucid dream induction
Recent research on mind wandering promises new perspec- techniques [51]. The precise extent to which both dreaming
tives on the state-dependence question. Mind wandering, in and waking mind wandering are open to task-based manipu-
which thoughts and attention drift away from what we are lations is debatable (e.g. [14,15,52]); however, on the whole, it
doing and unfold freely and associatively, takes up a signifi- seems safe to say that sleep-related experiences are hard to con-
cant proportion of our waking lives [27]. According to some trol both by external means and through deliberate intention.
estimates, we spend up to 50% of waking life mind wander- Furthermore, the investigation of spontaneous thought
ing [27,43]. The frequency of mind wandering has been is largely limited to retrospective report. A counterexample
shown to vary quite dramatically dependent on how it is may be certain lucid control dreams, where eye movement
operationalized in a given experiment [43]; but either way, signals can be regarded as a limited form of concurrent report
mind wandering is frequent. If we add to this the fact [51,53]. Concurrent reports might also be possible for aware
that the vast majority of (if not all) sleep-related experiences and intentional mind wandering [54-56]. Both proposals raise
are spontaneous, spontaneous experience seems to be the conceptual questions about the classification of experiences
predominant mode of experience in waking and sleep [44]. that are to some extent deliberately controlled as spontaneous

Mind wandering is thought to involve a change not just in [57,58]. But irrespective of this issue, it seems clear that for the
what we think about, or the contents of thought, but also in majority of spontaneous experiences in waking and sleep,
how we think and experience, or the quality of experience. only retrospective reports are available, and often even these

Specifically, a majority of mind wandering is thought to unfold require prompting the participant to give a report (as in


experimental awakenings in the sleep laboratory and probe-