they might help identify candidates for immersive daydreams. experiences, such that bodily sensations gradually recede into s
Again, they should be treated with caution: as discussed the background; there may also be the feeling of moving out- S
earlier, lucid control dreams show, for example, that immersion side of one’s physical body. At the same time, relative to S
is distinct from control and metacognitive insight. But at least sleep-onset imagery, there is often a progression from passive
initially, the characteristics of non-lucid dreams might still be observation to active participation, which may involve the
a good starting point. experience of embodiment in a ‘dream’ body; (3) the emer-

Finally, rather than assuming that immersion is a simple, gence of an alternative temporal reference frame, ranging
on-off property, a more nuanced, multi-dimensional view from brief and isolated, snapshot-like images to prolonged
might be better suited to comparing the here-and-now quality and narratively organized episodes. In this process, the sense
of dreams and daydreams. We can get a stronger grip on of here and now and the feeling of embodiment appear to
immersion and its relation to factors such as visual perspective shift from one’s actual environment and body to a dreamlike
and bodily experience by looking to sleep onset. The border environment and body, though awareness of this fact is often
between sleeping and waking is phenomenologically diverse, lost. Later-stage sleep onset imagery, which tends to be more
offering an ideal opportunity to study the transition between fully formed, also tends to draw from more temporally
non-immersive (or dreamless) and immersive, dreamful experi- remote and diverse memory sources and may be easier to
ence [90]. Elsewhere, I have argued that sleep onset can involve recall and describe in detail. Another central factor seems
both non-immersive and immersive, dreamful experiences, to be the sense of dynamism and movement, relating either
often following a progression from the former to the latter to oneself or to observed movement [139].

90,137]. Sleep onset is also electrophysiologically diverse. It would be fascinating to probe examples of seemingly
Within the period reaching from drowsy wakefulness into immersive daydreams in more detail with respect to these
early, stage 2 NREM sleep, nine substages can be distinguished dimensions. One possibility is that there are different pathways
24,138], which in turn may align with characteristic changes to immersion, with some dimensions being more likely to
in experience. occur in waking or at sleep onset and others being more preva-