The effect of population density on the probability of climate-driven population density on the abundance of assem-
backed artefact production is significant until the error on blages containing evidence for backed artefact production
the population estimates reaches approximately nine individ- across Africa (full null model comparison: x = 6.834, d.f.=1,
uals per 100 km”. At this point, the population density effect p=0.009). More specifically, the number of sites with backed
for the best-represented African region (southern Africa) is no artefacts increases with population density (estimate s.e.=
longer significant (p = 0.088; figure 5). 0.07 + 0.02, z=3.033, p=0.002), regardless of the overall
The alternative model, fitted using a 2500 km? radius number of sites documented for a particular period (the offset
around each dated assemblage to estimate population density, term: see §4). This increase suggests that counts of sites contain-
indicates a significant positive effect of human population den- ing backed artefacts were high only when population densities
sity on the probability that past human groups used backed were also high. When population densities were low, very few
artefact production systems. For this alternative model, the sites—whether young or old—are documented with backed
effect of population density on the probability of backed arte- artefacts anywhere in Africa (figure 2a and c). Importantly,
fact production varies substantially between different regions one would not necessarily expect to see a population density
of Africa (interaction between African region and population effect on backed artefact presence under all conditions [56].
density: x= 13529, d.f. =3, p= 0.011). Interestingly, the results Indeed, other variables such as increased group mobility (and
for this alternative model (2500 km?) are more stable for eastern consequently, increased encounter rates between individuals)
Africa than in the original model using more constrained may also have been influential, even in certain contexts of
spatial estimates of population density (100 km?). In the high environmental resource depletion [57,58].
original model (100 km”), the eastern African cases that docu- The binomial model fitted to sites in southern Africa
ment presences of backed artefacts (1=27 out of n=61 indicates a significant interaction between climate-driven
assemblages) all correspond with the highest end of the popu- population estimates—essentially ‘carrying capacity’—and

lation density estimates for that region, resulting in the effect of site density (likelihood ratio test: x? = 841.77, p =0.002). This

