a day, against population density and daily political action time budgets of 2,

4, 6 and 8h.
8. Transcending the constraints of population

capacity in communities of hexagonally packed households density and scale
where political interactions are brought about on foot.’ At
any given density, each additional two hours of political As successful agents increase the extent and effectiveness of
activity allow an agent to visit twice as many households their power, they accumulate superior stocks of capital that
while, for any given time budget, the number of visitable they can deploy to bootstrap even greater differentials of
households increases with the square root of density. power. By subsidizing others to manage subsistence, child-

Any affordance that affects interactive capacity, in fact, will rearing and other non-political demands on their time, they
impact the construction of power asymmetries. For example, can devote a greater proportion to political action. Of particular
the overall size of a local population sets a cap on interactive importance, though, they can judiciously cultivate technologi-
capacity: the concentration of power an agent can assemble cal and social innovations that reduce the burden that travel by
from an atoll population of 200 is severely truncated compared foot imposes on their interactive capacity. By deploying attrac-
to that on Tahiti, with an estimated contact population of tive resources (bread and circuses, millenarian promises), for
30000-35000. Among nomadic populations, agents must instance, they can not only influence others but also draw
also add a search time to the travel costs of bringing inter- them to central places, shifting the travel costs of interaction
actions about. Farming and irrigation not only enhance onto those they would influence [36]. They can scale these
resource value and monopolizability by tying people central place interactions by structuring civic architecture and
down, enabling surplus production and facilitating economic its acoustics to enhance public address. They can capitalize
accumulation, they also promote interactive capacity and the on mechanical forms of transport to accelerate their direct inter-
concentration of power by increasing the density, number action with others and deploy literacy, print and electronic