
Figure 1. A summary of hypothesized interactions between sociality and the evolution of longevity. High survival and fecundity facilitate the evolution of coop-
erative breeding. The occurrence of helpers in cooperative breeders further improves the survival of breeders. This is expected to select for increased longevity in
breeders. The longevity of helpers could be hypothesized to either increase, because of delayed breeding, or decrease, e.g. owing to indirect fitness benefits derived
from helping. In social insects, reinforcing feedback mechanisms can lead from species with low social complexity, relatively small colony sizes, and limited caste
polyphenism to the evolution of highly complex species with morphological castes and pronounced longevity differences. These feedback mechanisms include
decreased extrinsic mortality of reproductives due to protection and improved nutrition as well as high random extrinsic mortality of workers (especially while
foraging) and soldiers (during defence) in parallel with a reduced reproductive potential of workers. Orange box: mainly implied from modelling results; green
boxes: supported by empirical results; grey boxes: hypothesis, which requires formal modelling and more empirical testing. Photo credits: yellow-bellied
marmot: Svenja Kroeger; bee eaters: Volker Salewski; ants: Jiirgen Heinze; remainder: Judith Korb.

[25,51,52] seems to support this conjecture. Yet, correlations do Lifespan and fecundity evolve alongside with lowered extrinsic
not reveal causality, and in fact, a mathematical model has mortality and better nourishment of reproductives. In parallel,
shown that increased survivorship, i.e. low extrinsic mortality, the reproductive potential and lifespan of workers decrease
and/ora high fecundity, a priori select for the evolution of help- (figure 1). Such a perspective could combine model predictions
ing and sociality ([53], see also [54] and, for the evolution of like that division of labour facilitates unequal ageing [22] or
delayed dispersal, [55]). Thus, reinforcing feedback processes kin-selected adaptive ageing [19] with empirical evidence
may lead to increasing lifespan and fecundity with increasing that helpers increase the likelihood of survival in breeders in

sociality, which again results in larger colony size (figure 1). cooperatively breeding birds [23] or that sociality aligns with


female reproductive senescence in birds and mammals when
accounting for the pace of life, as suggested in this issue [48].
