
because of their different forms and functions within the and minor workers had significantly lower values than
colony but also because of their markedly different lifespans kings, which had significantly lower values than queens
and somatic maintenance patterns. Additionally, ageing- (table 2) (electronic supplementary material, figure S4).
related physiological processes are captured by contrasting Along PC2, samples were significantly separated by age
young versus old individuals within a caste. While we (table 2). While this effect was not apparent in reproductives,
cannot rule out the possibility of false negatives, we found young workers had significantly lower values than old
strong effects of caste on gene expression in all six species workers, especially in major workers (table 2 and figure 2b;
(for PC1 and PC2), whereas age affected expression only in electronic supplementary material, figure S5). Genes with
four species (figure 2 and table 2; electronic supplementary large negative loadings on PC1 (characterizing workers)
material, tables S5-S10, S12 and S13). The absence of an included at least four genes related to chemical communi-
age signal in T. rugatulus and the weak trend in A. mellifera cation (electronic supplementary material, table S6). Genes
capensis might be explained by the fact that age could not with large positive loadings on PC1 (characterizing reproduc-
be very reliably determined in the former and that age differ- tives) included three conventional Vgs. We also observed a __
ences and sample sizes were small in the latter (table 1). signature of high JH biosynthesis, indicated by the expression — =:
Interestingly, the effects of age and caste interacted with of a queen-specific JH epoxidase gene and two hydroxymethyl- 5
each other in the four species with an age effect: C. secundus, glutaryl-co-enzyme (HMG CoA) synthase genes, all with large =
M. bellicosus, E. viridissima and P. punctata. This suggests that positive loadings on PC1. One Vg and two TEs had large posi- =
some genes that are downregulated during the life of a repro- tive loadings on PC2 and were associated with old age,  &
ductive are upregulated when workers become older (or vice especially in major workers. By contrast, two genes related =
versa). Before discussing shared, general patterns across to chemical communication were positively associated with >
species, we first present species-specific results. young age. s
=
(a) Taxon-specific patterns of gene expression (ii) Bees &
(i) Termites For the abdominal transcriptomes of the facultatively eusocial