R

Figure 3. (a) The sequence of phosphorylation states constituting the circadian clock in cyanobacteria. From [105]. Reprinted with permission from AAAS. (b) The 3

cyanobacterial circadian clock. See text for details. Figure reprinted from [106] under Creative Commons License (CC BY-SA 4.0). (Online version in colour.) a

NS

dislodges SasA, stopping the phosphorylation of RpaA. When organized heterarchically and that they make decisions, an 3

KaiA joins KaiB, CikA also binds to and dephosphorylates activity commonly associated with cognition. a

RpaA. Together these actions remove the activation of Class A major advantage of this account is the fact that control ~
1 promoters and the repression of Class 2 promoters. With mechanisms are ubiquitous in biological systems, thus radically
repression removed, genes controlled by Class 2 promoters expanding the range of model organisms in which we can study
begin to be transcribed. decision-making. In particular, it allows us to focus on relatively
Employing this mechanism S. elongatus is able to use an simple organisms such as bacteria, which are potent models to
internal model of the light-dark cycle in its environment to identify and analyse the core elements of a cognitive process
make decisions about which genes to express [107]. It satisfies such as decision-making and the control mechanisms respon-
the requirement of a control mechanism in acting on flexible sible for it, in line with the general approach developed within
constraints in the mechanism of gene expression. Through the this theme issue and with a long tradition of research that
entrainment process, the clock maintains a connection to the emphasizes the continuity between biological and cognitive
day-night cycle in the environment, but this only indirectly phenomena [1]. In the case of decision-making, the core
affects its decision-making, which is based locally on the elements are: (1) selecting between alternatives based on
state of the clock itself. When the entrainment process is making measurements of both internal and external conditions