at least two excitable signalling networks exhibiting positive several fields, such as understanding decision making by cells
and negative feedback—one of which was chemotactic— during regeneration, embryogenesis and cancer, or the compu- = =
which ‘enabled a collection of stressed amoebas to self-organize tational processes that allow transcriptional and physiological =>
into a motile multicellular structure, capable of stimulus-driven networks to exhibit adaptive plasticity and memory when con-
decision making’. Schaap focuses on the molecule cAMP (cyclic fronted with novel stresses. Recent advances in molecular = =:
adenosine monophosphate), a regulator of diverse cellular genetics have enabled unprecedented control over protein = 5!
functions in all domains of life and a common second messenger function, but progress in many fields (e.g. synthetic biology, =
in mammals, in which it regulates aspects of metabolism, artificial intelligence and regenerative medicine) is stymied by =
physiology, development and memory. In D. discoideum, a rudimentary understanding of information processing and = &
cAMP controls all multicellular development through its decision making performed by living matter at all levels of the =
interconnected regulation of cell motility and cell differentiation. organization. While evolutionary studies demonstrate that neur- S
The section ends with a potentially game-changing ons evolved by speed-optimizing functions that existed in
multidisciplinary collaboration on the role of oscillations in pre-neural cell types, this fact is rarely appreciated or exploited. s
learning in Physarum polycephalum [65], the acellular slime The motivation for the basal cognition themed issue was to a
mould and current global celebrity of eukaryotic unicellular be- catalyse a wave of (ideally) innovative, transdisciplinary work
haviour. Members of the animal cognition laboratory of Audrey among groups and communities that currently do not interact.
Dussutour (CNRS-Toulouse, France) and the biological physics Erasing artificial boundaries between disciplines on questions
laboratory of Hans-Giinther Débereiner (University of Bremen, of mutual interest should allow insights in one field to
Germany) provide a basal mechanistic-behavioural starting benefit work in others. The original research in these two
point for answering ‘one of the most fundamental questions issues—empirical and theoretical, across multiple scientific
in cognitive science’: how information from an organism’s inter- disciplines—was brought together for a single purpose: to
actions with its environment can be ‘encoded in physical/ demonstrate the feasibility of ‘connecting the dots’ in the
chemical changes’ in that organism and then decoded some- evolution of cognition from prokaryotes to metazoans with
time later for generating adaptive behaviour. The article nervous systems and everything in between. We believe the
details an option space for investigating the role in slime collection demonstrates how this diverse work potentially