of flagella—which operate as individuals—achieves colony- mating organelles (figure 1d). In Paramecium aurelia, conju-
level phototaxis by virtue of their common stimulus-response gation begins with the adhesion of specific cilia, and cells
function and positional distribution on a spherical body [80]. become adhered at the anterior-ventral side [97]. Membrane
In Euglena, the interplay between eyespot sensor placement fusion then occurs, at surfaces where cilia degenerate, and
and an intensity-dependent reorientation strategy leads to pores form to provide cytoplasmic bridges between the part-
more complex responses to patterned light [81,82]. ners. In Chlamydomonas, isogamous gametes of opposite
The most extreme examples of light sensing in a single mating types adhere head-to-head along the length of their
eukaryotic cell are found in certain predatory dinoflagellates flagella, with the eyespots on the same side of the cell [98].
that have large and highly unusual ‘camera eyes’, called ocel- The plus mating type then extends a tubular, actin-based
loids—built from endosymbiotically acquired components. mating structure which fuses with a smaller structure in the
This unique organelle has superior light-gathering optics minus mating type. The temporary quadriflagellate dikaryons
and can refract light to a retina-like structure [83,84]. In the are also phototactic [99]. In Chlamydomonas, flagellar adhesion
warnowiid dinoflagellate Erythropsidinium, the design and is also light-sensitive, in fact light switchable [100], which may
sophistication of its eye suggests that it can do more than explain the necessity of light for gametogenesis in this organ-
sense light gradients (as in most other protist photoreceptors) ism [101]. In oogamous brown algae, the male gametes attach
[85]. Ocelloid eyes are even capable of an active rolling or to the female gamete with their anterior flagellum [102].
pivoting motion [86]. It is suggested that they can detect circu- After one gamete fuses, the others are excluded. This is
larly polarized light—a tell-tale sign of prey dinoflagellates ensured by the formation of a fertilization barrier by the
(polarotaxis). This extraordinary sensory capacity coincides fusion of Golgi-derived vesicles underlying the plasma mem-
with an arsenal of cellular weapons (e.g. harpoons, nemato- brane [102]. It is unclear if initial chemotaxis and subsequent
cysts) which this organism uses to impale its prey. The agglutinative contact are separate processes.
kKlinotaxis mechanism in this case must be highly refined, Among prokaryotes, cell-cell fusion is rare, and mostly
though the connection between signal and action on the only incomplete and reversible. In some haloarchaea, the
flagellar beat pattern is unclear. exchange of genetic material can occur through incomplete
In contrast with its widespread use in eukaryotes, klino- cell-cell fusion, during which cells are connected by cyto-