lar individuals. The computer controlling the experiment first Prior to each experiment, the participants were told that they had
assigns a colour—red or blue—to each individual in a group, each been allocated a colour (red or blue), unknown to them (11
unknown to him/her and others, but fixed in a given exper- subjects of each colour). They were also informed that after an
imental run. We use an electronic sensory device to control initial period of typically 45s, during which they were asked to
the amount of information about the environment delivered walk randomly and at their normal pace in the circular arena of
to the individuals without them being aware of the nature of radius R = 3.56 m (figure 1a top panel), the tag clipped on their
this control. Each participant wears location tags allowing the left shoulder would start beeping if the subjects in their environment
computer to collect in real-time the information about the pos- were not the same colour as them (verbatim, figure 1a middle panel,
itions and colours of their k nearest neighbours, the value of k and figures 2 and 3). Ultimately, they were told that a run of the
being controlled by and only known to the experimenter. The experiment would stop only after all subjects had stopped beeping
sensory device determines the colour of the majority of these (figure 1a bottom panel), after which another run of the exper-
k neighbours and the tags deliver an acoustic signal (a ‘beep’) iment would start again (see electronic supplementary material,
to the subject if this dominant colour is different from her/ table S1). Despite the fact that our purposely vague phrasing
his own colour. An experimental run ends when all sensory did not explicit the nature of the ‘environment’, no subject

devices have stopped beeping, which corresponds to the ever asked further details about it. Yet, the precise definition


Figure 2. Segregation experiment and tracking system. An experimental run starts with the random colour assignment to the 22 participants (11 blue and 11 red)
and the random walking phase (a), where participants walk in a circular arena delimited with a blue tape on the floor. In the segregation phase (b,c,e), the tag
clipped on each participant's left shoulder emits a beep if the colour of the majority of his/her k nearest neighbours (k = 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 and 13) is different from
his/her own. The positions of the participants are recorded in real time by the Ubisense tracking system (c,d) based on the triangulation of sensors (U) located
around the arena.

k=1 no beep k=3 beep k=5 no beep k=7 beep