
(b) Innovative control strategies, how can we fight

back? 7. Conclusion

In the future we may be able to apply a targeted approach, Understanding why mosquitoes show variation in host
searching for malaria-super-spreaders and focusing treat- preference, both between and within species, is highly impor-
ment on these individuals instead of trying to reach 100% tant for future VBD control and understanding transmission.
coverage with LLINs and IRS. Where there is residual trans- While it is generally accepted that these differences are
mission, VBDs like malaria will continue to pose a threat mediated by variation in the volatile compounds produced
because of outdoor biting despite universal LLIN and IRS by hosts [100], there is still much to discover about the mech-
coverage being achieved [121]. Heterogeneities in trans- anisms underlying the production of these compounds and
mission are due to the fact that a high proportion of bites how infection of the host or vector can affect either the
are carried by a small proportion of the population [115], production of or mosquito responses to VOCs. Mosquito be-
which gives further evidence that attractive hosts are a haviour in response to a variety of compounds has already
worthy target. Indeed, targeting those individuals that con- been used to produce synthetic attractants such as MB5 [40]
tribute the most to parasite transmission is predicted to for use in traps and a variety of commercially available
outperform population-wide measures in reducing the force repellents such as DEET. However, a greater understanding
of infection [12]. Identifying such individuals could be of human attractiveness to mosquitoes and the effect of
achieved using non-invasive techniques to detect specific parasite infection could lead to improved control tools,
VOCs associated with higher levels of attractiveness to including novel traps, repellents, drugs and gene drive pro-
mosquitoes or with the infection in asymptomatic individ- grammes. This field of research is also likely to benefit from
uals. Recent developments that have allowed for detection more studies integrating variation in attractiveness into an
dogs to non-invasively and rapidly identify malaria-infected evolutionary framework, as this may help design of better
people [122] suggest that dogs could be trained and deployed control methods and predict the long-term consequences of