
incorporating a certain element (strain, strategy, equipment) recovery of 80% to reduce the sexing error to the values pre-
in a mass-rearing pipeline. Here, we present a genetic sented before). The main limitation in terms of productivity is
sexing strategy that is based on the red-eye morphological not expected to be the image analysis but the serialization
marker already present on Ae. aegypti. This marker is different and sorting part of the process. This system can be combined
from those already exploited in sex separation (male protan- with the algorithms and engineering developments already
dry, pupal size, genital lobes and adult plumose antennae) developed for pupal size discrimination to maximize effi-
and is not affected by mass-rearing conditions, meaning ciency. Future steps include testing of this algorithm on
that it can be easily combined with them providing enhanced larger samples and developing (or choosing) the proper tech-
sex separation accuracy. In our strategy, the incorporation of nological equipment to support efficient sorting following the
Inv35 in the Red-eye GSS resulted in an average recombina- computer-based identification. In any case, the system is scal-
tion frequency of 0.22% across 12 generations. Although able, and several unattended sex-sorting units could be used
this may seem high, the fact that there is no accumulation in parallel in a mass-rearing facility if needed.

of recombinants for several generations that recombinants Sex separation methodologies currently available for Ae.
were not removed shows that a mass-rearing facility can aegypti focus on pupal and adult stage dimorphisms. An ideal
easily adopt a FRS similar to the one of the medfly to pre- strategy would eliminate females early during development
serve the genetic integrity of the strain and amplification (eggs or early larvae). The red-eye mutation evidences itself
cycles to produce male batches that still have a standard per- early during development (late L1-early L2), as a clear red
centage of female contamination. Based on our data, spot on the transparent larval body. Although we did not per-
assuming female contamination of 0.22% due to genetic form any experiments on this, it is worth investing in a strategy
recombination and combined with a standard (commercially that could eliminate most of the female larvae based on the eye
available) pupal size sorting method (female contamination colour at early developmental stages. Such an approach would
ranging between 0.1% and 0.01%) then we get a probability have a huge impact on the logistics of the mass rearing, in terms
of female contamination ranging between 2.2 females per of diet and larval rearing space plus equipment.