of effort from many, juggling care for children and others,
supporting students and colleagues, and more—for which
we are very grateful. Our hopes for this special issue are two-
fold. First, to foster multidisciplinary understandings of

3, Understanding this theme Issue support for mothers and children, informed by findings
Now that we are better equipped to cross disciplinary from different cultures. Second, to evidence that the responsi-
bridges, let us outline key points of this theme issue. bility of childrearing should not—nor cannot—fall solely
First, this issue focuses on presenting research and commen- onto mothers, and indeed, successful childrearing is consist-
tary on support for mothers with infants and/or young ently an activity shared beyond the nuclear family.
children, reflecting the predominant norms and expectations As we discuss above, narrow, ideological conceptualiz-
of mothers as primary caregivers [14,15]. This is not to say ations of motherhood reinforced by unchallenged ‘scientific’
that other caregivers are not important; in fact, we argue assumptions have led to harmful implications for maternal
the opposite. Many authors in this issue, us included, high- wellbeing. The assumption that mothers are, and evolved
light the importance of non-maternal caregivers and to be, sole caregivers, and that motherhood should come at
extended social support across cultures. This includes the expense of all other domains of womanhood, contrasts
fathers [13,23,44,49,57], grandmothers and other relatives and conflicts with the realities of raising children across
[13,16,17,23,43,49], as well as non-kin in both informal and the globe.
formal settings [16,18,23,31,58]. Second, we primarily focus This point, while it may seem obvious to many of us,
on the individual-level and specific acts of support rather must be reinforced. During the present COVID-19 pandemic,
than wider supportive environments. While we recognize in the UK Western notions of intensive mothering have argu-
that macro- and community-level factors are also key deter- ably resulted in delayed policy change to allow for childcare
minants of maternal and child health, this focus stems from support during lockdown (e.g. [59]), instances of fathers and
how we define support: from an evolutionary anthropologi- other key supporters being excluded from antenatal appoint-
cal perspective, we conceptualize support as investments ments and births (e.g. [60]), economic support packages