hours, or if ANC and PNC services are offered on a first- of new opportunities for men to engage, such as community
come-first-served basis rather than by appointment. This activities, home visits, facility-based couple or group-based
barrier would be greater for men with less control over their care and educational activities [15,16]. Others including
work, those without paid leave or those who cannot afford outreach or media activities are directed at promoting or
to miss work. Clinic infrastructure is often not couple-friendly, increasing the demand for male partner involvement and
owing to congestion and concerns for privacy in shared labour participation in existing services by attempting to shift
rooms. The relationship between staff and male partners is attitudes, for example by promoting more participative
also not straightforward. Healthcare workers often act as gate- models of masculinity or fatherhood [63]. Programmes may
keepers with the power to accept or turn away would-be birth work both through facilitating and through promoting male
companions [57]. Men report being treated rudely, ridiculed, partner participation.
or refused entry and forced to ‘stay in the sun’ [58]. Health Perhaps the most essential element in many male partner
workers in rural Kenya worry about being scrutinized, participation programmes is to increase or sustain men’s
judged and held accountable by companions, though many motivation to support their childbearing partner. The fact
welcome their practical help [39]. Remarkably, similar itself of being present during maternity care, or the topics
demand and supply barriers to male partner participation that are touched upon by those delivering the programme or
have been documented in countries as diverse as Iran, Brazil service, may bring up and call into question gender norms
and Papua New Guinea [59-61]. relating to what is socially and culturally appropriate for
People’s own prior experience, or that of others close to men to do. For example, a programme in Mozambique
them, can affect the likelihood of male partner participation involved male-to-male community health agents called
in care. Unfortunately, negative experiences are common. ‘Male Champions’, who counselled men to create new, male-
There is a range of evidence from LMICs and HICs that friendly community norms around engagement in pregnancy
male partners who are present often feel left out during [64]. Participation in ANC or group education can promote
ANC, PNC and birth. Steen et al. [23] characterized the male partners’ familiarization with staff, the facility, and the
experience of many men as ‘not-patient and _not-visitor’, services offered. If the experience is positive, men may
which situated them in an undefined space, both physically attend again, be supportive of women’s care-seeking, and