by referring to ‘extragenetic inheritance’ in contrast with glance since both cultural inheritance and biological inheri-

‘genetic inheritance’. Their usage of the label ‘extra-genetic’ tance can be vertical, oblique and horizontal, and both can


A B Cc

Figure 1. Culture taking off. The horizontal axis represents time and physical persistence, which is taken to not evolve at all. The vertical axis represents accumu-
lation of changes (or increase in complexity, even). Cultural evolution (the dotted line) is autonomously changing in relation to biological evolution (dashed line). B
is the first animal using culture, while C denotes the beginning of our species and D the end of the nineteenth century. (Reprinted from [22]).

be quick and slow. That is why the question arises: what, in internal biological inheritance (molecular, happening via
fact, justifies regarding the two channels as distinct? I aim to processes in the gametes) and indirect-external cultural
show that it matters why a transmission mode is operative, inheritance (ideational or behavioural, happening in the
whether the mode can be switched and which proportions regard- brain) by justifying the ontological internal—external divid-
ing the operative modes result from that. Looking at these ing-line dynamically. That dynamic picture takes the body
details will be part of the solution to the question at issue in boundary to be resulting from (b) near-decomposability.
this paper. Before I can go there, two other accounts of dis- After all, what is philosophically decisive is not that the line
tinguishing channels and transmission modes of inheritance is drawn at the body boundary but why that is justified.”
need to be mentioned. They are the most detailed and most In sum, three existing accounts (Cavalli-Sforza and
influential accounts available as of today, given the topic of Feldman, Jablonka and Lamb, Odling-Smee and Laland)
this article, and are singled out because of that. are in the background of what follows. Yet, they do not suf-

Jablonka & Lamb [2] distinguish between two qualitat- fice to defend channelism against the challenges mentioned
ively different kinds of transmission within the cultural in §1. What is needed is an explicit and in-depth depiction