in point is the notorious episode of the 1870 Ems Telegram: Bis- act of communication. This, as Luhmann puts it, allows com- =
marck, in summarizing a diplomatic exchange, suppressed munication to be itself perceived as a form of action. Ss
some courtesy circumlocutions which, without altering the Darwin triumphantly applied a nomothetic evolutionary = =
substance, changed its flavour, and in so doing soured public model to one of the most complex systems of all—the 5!
opinion and materially hastened the outbreak of the Franco- diversification of life-forms on planet Earth. Clearly, the =
Prussian War [64,65]. These extra-communicative functions complexity of a system does not preclude its analysis in evol- =
are manifest to the participants involved, and are themselves utionary terms. The question is rather, if human cultureasa = &
objects of commentary. Such meta-communication (communi- complex system differs from other complex, but ‘natural’ = &%
cative acts becoming the subject of communicative exchanges) (non-cultural) systems—physiological ones such as the S
is part and parcel of human interaction. It in turn seems to pre- human body, with its organs, cells, organelles and molecular &
suppose socialization, sentience and what is known as ‘cultural interactions, or inanimate ones such as the weather on planet Ss
literacy’ ([66] and cf. [67]). Earth. I would suggest that there is such a difference and that BS
Some of these elements may meet with recognition, other it is has something to do with the fact that its iterative back-
with reservations, among scientists working in Cultural Evol- looping self-reflexivity involves what anthropology calls the
ution; but all of them, including all of their complexities, are etic/emic distinction (to be addressed in §4).
crucial to culture as that concept is used in the Humanities. In human cognition and interaction, viewed systemically,

reflexivity is a key factor: the fact that communicative inter-

actions are not only carriers of information but can become
3. Culture as a recursive system of self-reflexivity objects of communication, contemplated as actions in their
own right. Any question may in response elicit an answer,
or the meta-counterquestions ‘What do you mean?’, or
‘Why are you asking me this?’—or all of these at the same
time. This reflexivity can loop through multiple feedback iter-