Prussian War [64,65]. These extra-communicative functions complexity of a system does not preclude its analysis in evol- =
are manifest to the participants involved, and are themselves utionary terms. The question is rather, if human cultureasa = &
objects of commentary. Such meta-communication (communi- complex system differs from other complex, but ‘natural’ = &%
cative acts becoming the subject of communicative exchanges) (non-cultural) systems—physiological ones such as the S
is part and parcel of human interaction. It in turn seems to pre- human body, with its organs, cells, organelles and molecular &
suppose socialization, sentience and what is known as ‘cultural interactions, or inanimate ones such as the weather on planet Ss
literacy’ ([66] and cf. [67]). Earth. I would suggest that there is such a difference and that BS
Some of these elements may meet with recognition, other it is has something to do with the fact that its iterative back-
with reservations, among scientists working in Cultural Evol- looping self-reflexivity involves what anthropology calls the
ution; but all of them, including all of their complexities, are etic/emic distinction (to be addressed in §4).
crucial to culture as that concept is used in the Humanities. In human cognition and interaction, viewed systemically,

reflexivity is a key factor: the fact that communicative inter-

actions are not only carriers of information but can become
3. Culture as a recursive system of self-reflexivity objects of communication, contemplated as actions in their
own right. Any question may in response elicit an answer,
or the meta-counterquestions ‘What do you mean?’, or
‘Why are you asking me this?’—or all of these at the same
time. This reflexivity can loop through multiple feedback iter-
ations. To use a word is not the same as to mention or quote a
word, and discussions of the use—mention distinction (e.g. by
Sperber & Wilson [69]) can in turn become objects of discus-
sion (as is happening when we discuss Sperber & Wilson’s
analysis); and so on. Every level of human communication