from different males can be stored disproportionately across be under positive selection in both males and females [14].
spermathecae [34]. To unequivocally demonstrate cryptic Thus, despite pronounced sexual dimorphism, including
female choice, female responses must vary with male phenotype size dimorphism, it is not yet clear what effect intersexual
and hence genotype, or genotype directly [43]; detecting a female genetic correlations have on sex-specific evolution in this fly.

effect on sperm storage alone is not sufficient. Nonetheless, there
is significant female—male coevolution for a range of reproduc-
tive characters across the Scathophagidae, including sperm

stores and sperm [55] that require explanation. Prosaically, they 6. Concludin g remarks
may simply result from intra-specific intersexual genetic corre- Darwin [69] discussed sexual selection up to ejaculation. How-
lations for reproductive characters that represent ontogenetic ever, the behavioural ecology of the yellow dung fly offered
constraints [56], though this seems unlikely. insight into the fact that females typically mate with multiple
Genetic correlations can also be indicative of underlying males and will generate post-copulatory sexual selection
sexual conflict [56-58], a divergence in the evolutionary inter- through sperm competition, cryptic female choice and sexual
ests of the sexes [59]. Sexual conflict can result in evolutionary conflict. This work suggested that sperm competition should
arms races over the outcomes of interactions (inter-locus generally favour the evolution of opposing adaptations in
sexual conflict) and evolutionary tugs-of-war over specific males that, on the one hand allow them to pre-empt the
trait values (intra-locus sexual conflict) [57-60]. Furthermore, sperm stored by females from previous mates, while on
conflict should be greater in polyandrous than monogamous the other protect a male’s sperm from being pre-empted by
mating systems, because with polyandry, the fitness interests rivals. The fly’s copula duration and post-copulatory mate
of the sexes are not completely coupled [61]. To demonstrate guarding can be explained quantitatively in the light of
sexual conflict unequivocally, sexually antagonistic selection sperm competition. Work on the yellow dungfly provides a
on some trait or interaction must be detected [57,58]. beautiful example of how empirical and theoretical approaches
Dungflies are extremely polyandrous [18,20], generating conducted in parallel can advance our understanding of