species trees highlights the inevitability that cultural trait phylo- factor contributing to patterns that seem to contradict a given
genies will not always display the same topology even when the phylogeny. Another very common source of variation is socio-
underlying cultural history is completely tree-like. linguistic variation due to the fact that each language variety is
Incomplete lineage sorting might be quite common in spoken by many speakers at the same time who may well pro-
language evolution, given the multiple sources of polymorphism nounce words differently or prefer certain words over other
that characterize language change [66]. There are two major ones, in different contexts. According to Kroonen [71], this
sources for polymorphisms in language evolution—sociolinguis- must have been the case in Proto-Germanic, the ancestor
tic variation and linguistic variation. Neither of these two sources language of Swedish and English, where two words for ‘sun’
of variation can be easily filtered out during data preparation, seem to have been in use at the same time, one that later
which is why it is important to consider both when using linguis- became the ancestor of English sun, and one that later
tic data to make evolutionary inferences. Sociolinguistic variation became the ancestor of Swedish sol. While the English form

refers to the fact that social factors can generate individual ultimately goes back to the old genitive and the Swedish


form goes back to the old nominative paradigm form, the inter- (i) Modes of transmission and expression

mediate stage that can be reconstructed for Proto-Germanic First, it can be useful to consider what is already known about a
was not a stage of one word showing two different case trait’s mode of transmission within and between groups, the
forms, but rather of two words that we assume were used in mode of expression (individual versus group) and the extent
different contexts or preferred by different speakers in the to which a focal trait’s expression and transmission can be dis-
same language community. entangled from that of other traits [46,76]. For instance, the
Importantly, using phylogenetic methods does not entail a present-day global distribution of a cuisine like pizza, which
commitment to the assumption that there is only one history. came into being in late eighteenth-century Naples, reveals
Indeed, phylogenetic methods can be used to investigate the much about the history of migration and economics, and rela-