by Levitan [14,15], research on gamete-level interactions in taxa when we compare (mostly terrestrial) animals with N
these historically neglected groups has now found its way internal fertilization and (mostly aquatic) broadcast spawning Ss
into the mainstream literature on sexual selection [10,16]. The organisms (which are arguably more similar to flowering S
aim of the present review is to summarize current empirical plants than to copulating animals [11]). As we highlight here,
and theoretical progress in this field, some of which extends theoretical models incorporating the distinctive dynamics of
the concepts outlined in previous reviews [14,15], and some externally fertilizing systems have made considerable progress
that has revealed novel research directions. In doing so, we in bridging this divide (e.g. see review in [20]).
highlight how studies on broadcast spawners may be instru- To briefly recap classic sexual selection theory, Bateman’s
mental in improving our understanding of gamete-level 21] famous experiments on Drosophila melanogaster revealed
sexual selection more broadly in nature. that the relationship between reproductive success and the

By quoting Darwin’s [1] musings on the ‘lowest classes’ of number of mates differed between the sexes. Bateman concluded
animal at the start of this article we were being deliberately that this was owing to the fact that female fertility is limited
provocative. Our aim in this review is to explain why we think by egg production, while males are seldom limited by sperm
Darwin may have missed an opportunity by ignoring such production and instead are limited by the availability of
organisms. Our review comprises four sections that together females. These insights led to three broad principles that underlie
summarize what we have learned or can learn about sexual modern sexual selection theory. First, sex differences in gamete-
selection in these groups. Our focus is on marine invertebrates, production costs mean that males must compete for access to
but much of our discussion is relevant for other gonochoristic mates, and therefore males will exhibit greater variance in
(separate sex) species exhibiting limited sexual dimorphism, reproductive success than females. Second, males will exhibit
sessile or largely sedentary lifestyles and external fertilization. higher variance in the number of mates than females. Third,
First, we highlight their suitability for addressing, and some- because of the sex differences in gamete-production costs, and
times challenging, conventional views of sexual selection thus the variances in reproductive success and the number of
and the unique insights we can gain from these groups in under- mates, the relationship between reproductive success and the
standing evolutionary transitions in sexual reproduction. number of mates, the so-called ‘Bateman gradient’, will be