of sperm survival when fertilization occurs relatively shortly (c) The next 50 years of sperm competition research
after sperm release. As revealed in our meta-analysis, many com- Our meta-analyses have revealed overarching patterns across a
parative studies have indeed indicated selection for longer wealth of studies generated in the 50 years since Parker's [1]
sperm, resulting in a strongly positive overall trend. Hence, in influential paper. However, they also highlight the strong taxo-
addition to maximizing sperm numbers, it appears that produ- nomic bias in the study of testes and sperm evolution (table 1,
cing longer sperm may often add further fitness benefits, electronic supplementary material, §§3.2.4 and 4.2.5). The vast
although the processes of selection for longer sperm are likely majority of effect sizes were derived from birds (and here
to differ between taxa. For example, the density-related advan- strongly biased toward passerines) and mammals (primarily
tage of longer sperm (Parker's [9] second prediction, modelled primates and rodents), with the more speciose vertebrate taxa
more specifically in [52]) is most likely to manifest itself in (bony fishes and reptiles) being represented by a mere handful
small organisms such as many insects, in which sperm compe- of studies or absent entirely (e.g. reptiles in testes meta-analy-
tition occurs in the form of displacing rival sperm from sis). Even less information is available on the invertebrates,
densely packed sperm-storage organs [76,77]. In fact, this although arthropods alone dwarf the speciosity of all other
mode of sperm competition can even exert stronger selection animal phyla combined and exhibit both astounding diversity
on sperm length than on sperm number [52,59], often associated in sperm morphology [51,80] and rampant sperm competition
with co-diversification between sperm size and the female repro- [3]. Consequently, many novel patterns of reproductive
ductive tract [41,43-45,78,79]. These factors might also explain evolution are likely to be discovered in future endeavours.
why, on average, arthropods showed tighter relationships In addition to broadening the taxonomic breadth in studies
between sperm length and measures of sperm competition of sperm competition, it is important to recognize that repro-
(electronic supplementary material, §4.2.11) and generally exhi- ductive traits rarely evolve independently of one another, of
bit much greater intra-taxonomic variation in sperm size than other sexual and non-sexual traits, or the environment in
chordates [80]. which sperm competition occurs. Since sperm morphology is
By contrast, in many vertebrate taxa, a competitive advan- often an indirect target of selection via sperm performance

tage of longer sperm has been attributed to swimming faster to (e.g. [47]), knowledge of how variation in sperm morphology