among individual females or populations, or whether it corre-

lates with variation in paternity shares. Similarly, females could (a) Are there more seminal fiuid proteins that impact

modulate Sfp receptor levels, production or activity. For postcopulatory sexual selection?
example, oviduct expression of the SPR evolved in the melano- To date, we know 14 Sfps that have been implicated in com-
gaster species group, coinciding with these species showing petitive paternity outcomes, via genetic association studies,
post-mating responses to SP [126,127]. It is unknown whether or through genetic manipulation, out of our best-estimate
natural variation or plasticity in the SPR could allow females to seminal proteome of 292 Sfps (electronic supplementary Ss
alter their response to SP in order to bias paternity. material, data $2). This small proportion might be because = =:

In summary, there is clearly great potential for not many Sfps are involved in PCSS, though we suspect = 5!
D. melanogaster females to use molecular interactions with more likely it simply reflects the fact that we have a good = &
male Sfps in their exertion of CFC [7]. To date, there are no understanding of the function of, at best 30 Sfps. As more =
studies that unequivocally differentiate between Sfp-mediated population and functional genetic studies of Sfps take place = &
CFC and sperm competition in this species. However, it is in the future, we would expect to find more that have roles =
important to note that the criteria that are generally accepted in PCSS. In particular, we might predict that recently evolved 5
for demonstrating CFC tend to be more stringent than proteins, or those differentially expressed across species, rep- s
those applied to claims of sperm competition. Nonetheless, resent prime candidates, due to sperm competition and CFC Ss
the combination of sperm competition, CFC and an ongoing driving evolutionary novelty [33,35,129]. One further poten- S
antagonistic arms races with females, may ultimately be tial route to identifying good candidates is to apply
responsible for the rapid evolution and turnover of many evolutionary rate covariation approaches to already-known
Sfps in D. melanogaster and other taxa [10,35,128]. PCSS-mediating Sfps, a method employed to successfully

To test this idea—that PCSS drives evolutionary novelty in target and identify novel SP-network Sfps [76].