that the mutants exhibited uncontrolled germ cell prolifer- in gonads of XX mice resulted in transcriptional activation
ation at early stages of development and in the adults of of targets of SOX9 and development of testes and male physi-
both sexes. In addition, male-to-female sex reversals were ology [73]. In Japanese medaka, Oryzias latipes, sox5 has a role
observed and these females had reduced fertility suggesting in regulating germ cell number and disruption of this gene
additional roles in the ovary [40,62,63]. Gdf6 has not been leads to XX female-to-male sex reversal [74].
described so far as being involved in gonad development. Overall, there are two common features of the ‘usual sus-
However, GDF6 and BMP4, via SMAD factors, influence Id pects’ genes that should be highlighted. First, they do not
(inhibitors of differentiation) genes, and thereby suppress have a strict sex-specific role, being necessary for both func-
differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells [64]. BMP4 tional ovary and testis. In some species, the bipotential
has an important role in primordial germ cell differentiation, gonad already expresses those sex-related genes prior to sex
and treatments of epiblast-derived stem cells with this factor determination, and the expression bias occurs only after the
resulted in specification into germ cells [65]. In addition, master trigger is activated [1]. Hence, genes classically
other closely related genes like Gdf9 and Bmp15 are important defined as ‘male-related’ are in fact genes that are needed at
in ovarian development of mammals and fish [66-68] high expression levels during and after the critical develop-
(table 1). mental window to lead the gonad towards testis, and the

same can be inferred for the ‘female-related’ genes. Indeed,
transgenic experiments in different vertebrates demonstrate

(d Sox3 and the SOX family that at the critical window overexpression of ‘male-related’
The SOX (Sry-type HMG box) gene family contains the HMG genes (e.g. Dmrtl, Sox3 and gsdf) [34,75,76], as well as
box DNA binding domain closely related to the one for Sry ‘female-related’ genes (e.g. R-spondin) [77] takes over the
[69]. It is commonly accepted that the Sox3 gene is the ances- role on sex determination and produces sex reversal. Interest-
tor of Sry, being located on the X chromosome of mammals. ingly, the ectopic expression of Sox3 in the bipotential gonad
This gene is not a primary sex determiner, but it is highly of mice not only generated XX males but the mechanism of