FISH with the labelled probes derived from each peak was ACA scaffolds belonged to ACAX, in contrast with 7 of 53
performed on the metaphase plates of the same specimen. (13%) in the X chromosome. These scaffolds showed higher
The probes derived from most peaks hybridized with single pd_mean than the scaffolds corresponding to other ACA
chromosome pairs (figure 3; electronic supplementary material, chromosomes. They probably represent a contamination of
figure S1). Two peaks, SMA_G and SMA_H2, both hybridized the Y-sample by the X chromosome owing to similar size.
with the sex chromosomes, and were concluded to correspond The chromosomes SMA8, SMA9 and SMA10 correspond
to the chromosomes X and _Y, respectively. The peak SMA_H2 to the chromosomes ACA7+ACA10, ACA9 + ACA14 and
(mostly consisting of the Y chromosome), in addition, showed ACA8 + ACA12, respectively. In the chromosome SMA7,
weak hybridization with the similar-sized chromosome 7 only the genomic blocks homologous to ACA15 were
(mostly contained in the peak SMA_H1) probably owing to found. Notably, the chromosome termed ‘chromosome 7’ in
contamination during flow sorting (figure 3d). several recent studies on Sceloporus tristichus, another species

Both sex chromosome probes hybridized with the respect- with 2n = 22, in fact, represents the XX/XY chromosome pair.
ive chromosomes along the whole length, but showed weaker This follows from its position in the karyotype and reported
or no hybridization in the medial, centromere-adjacent region gene content [41,42].
of the homologous chromosome (figure 3c,d). This pattern The data on the homology between the chromosomes of
corresponds to the presence of two homologous pseudoauto- S. malachiticus and A. carolinensis are summarized in table 1
somal regions in the distal parts of the sex chromosomes, and and the electronic supplementary material, file S1. Notably,

the differentiated non-recombining regions in the middle. of seven translocations that occurred in the S. malachiticus


(a) (b)

Figure 3. Examples of FISH with the flow-sorted chromosome-specific probes of the male 5. malachiticus on its metaphase plates. Note that the sex chromosome-