There are natural examples of sex-determining genes where the promoter of this important male factor [55]. Despite
the mechanism works by strictly repressing the male or the being the only known mechanism through which ESD
female pathway. In the frog Xenopus laevis, the sex chromoso- works, the example of T. scripta together with the tempera-
mal system is ZZ/ZW and a duplicated copy of dmrtl on the ture influence on GSD species, bring us back to the main
W, named dim-w, has a dominant-negative effect by interfering feature of sex determination, in which the bipotential gonad
with the transcriptional activation of target genes of dmrt1, has the ability to respond to any signal that would repress
acting as an anti-male factor and leading to ovary formation or activate the downstream pathway of one of both sexes.
[43]. The dm-w gene is expressed only in the female, and it is In the case of ESD, the trigger selected is environmental,
transiently expressed in the primordial bipotential gonad, while in GSD it is genetic (figure 1). Hence, the constant pres-
although dmrtl shows continued expression after sex deter- ence of both opposing male and female networks together
mination [44]. It is important to note that Dm-W is not with the preserved ability to respond to environmental cues
completely blocking the action of Dmrt1 but decreasing its explain how ESD could switch to GSD and vice versa. In
activity in females. This is conceptually similar to the fact, the group of reptiles present several examples of ESD
dosage effect in birds and tongue sole. going to GSD, especially in turtles [56] and geckos [57], and = =

In salmonids, the sex chromosomal system is XX/XY, and the transition from GSD to ESD seems to be rare, present =

the male sex determiner, sdY, is a duplication of the immune- mostly in fish [58]. ”
related gene irf9 on the Y chromosome. SdY has been shown =
by in vitro experiments to repress the female pathway R
through direct interaction with Foxl2 with the consequence 5. Applying the ‘bottom-up’ hypothesis in o
that the male pathway is active [45] (this issue (46). In both vertebrates: the selective advantage of the &
cases, the frog and the trout, the sex-determining genes S
seem to have a specific role in repressing the opposite recurrent sex-determining genes 3
pathway. Looking at the genes identified as master sex-determining 8