plants and animals [37-39]. By contrast, our study identified
the opposite case of sex chromosome evolution from a hetero-

4. Discussion morphic to a homomorphic system. In the Neo-West-Japan
The Japanese frog G. rugosa comprises five major geographic group, which may have originated from hybridization
groups based on the sex chromosome and sex-determining between the West-Japan and the Neo-ZW or XY group, the
systems. Here, we identified a new geographic group: the heteromorphic sex chromosomes deriving from one parental
populations are located at boundaries between the Neo-ZW group were lost and instead have been replaced with homo-
group and the West-Japan group (figure 1). The mitochondrial morphic ones (the homomorphic sex chromosomes could be
genes are derived from the Neo-ZW or XY group with hetero- homologous to sex chromosomes 7 or be turned over to
morphic sex chromosome 7 of ZZ-ZW or XX-XY, respectively. another chromosomes). A comparable case was reported in
However, the genes on chromosome 7 are not sex-linked, and the Australian dragon lizard [40]. The species has differen-
in fact, the chromosomes 7 are subtelcentric, a type of the tiated heteromorphic sex chromosomes of ZZ-ZW type, but
West-Japan group, and are homomorphic in both sexes. Also, sex determination is also sensitive to temperature: high temp-
no heteromorphic sex chromosomes were identified in either erature during egg incubation changes the phenotypic sex of
sex and the males are heterogametic in sex determination. ZZ individuals to female. In fact, ZZ sex-reversed females
The nuclear genes covered the range between Neo-ZW/XY were discovered in the wild deserts around the centre of Aus-
and the West-Japan groups. tralia. This suggests that the system of ZZ-ZW heteromorphic
The homomorphic sex chromosomes under male hetero- sex chromosomes could be changed to a temperature sex
gamety and the subtelocentic chromosome 7 are common to determination system without W chromosomes, an evolution
the populations of West-Japan group. Thus, our conclusion is from heteromorphy to homomorphy. However, the real
that the new group may have evolved by hybridization population, of which reproduction works between only ZZ
between the West-Japan group and either the Neo-ZW or the males and ZZ females, has yet to be discovered and
XY group. The new group (P3-5) in the Chugoku district is geo- confirmed, and thus this case remains a theory.
graphically located between the Neo-ZW group in the east and By contrast, the Neo-West-Japan group of the frog G. rugosa