hybrids (LLSST, 51=46 chromosomes) since an early cold observed for the other 55 hybrids, as it had a developing ovary ES
shock was applied to the fertilized eggs. but was negative for the dm-w gene and inherited a Zchromo- 5
The viability was lower in the hybrids than in the X. laevis some from X. tropicalis (ID: X54.4). There are two possible S
or X. tropicalis clutches and was affected by the quality of the explanations for the presence of developing ovaries in this  &
eggs (for a detailed description of early hybrid phenotypes, sample. Either the result is a false negative for dm-w (as it was
see [38]). Few post-metamorphic and adult hybrids can be positive for other X. laevis W-specific markers [35]), or the
obtained with apparently normal phenotype, and three main father (X10.10, see electronic supplementary material, figure
developmental problems were observed among developing S1) was recombinant between the marker used and the sex-
tadpoles: straight hind limbs, twisted hind limbs and massive determining locus, with a YW sex chromosome constitution
oedema (electronic supplementary material, figure S2). instead of YZ. Since X54.4 is the only hybrid tadpole from this
Three individuals (IDs: X44.21, X44.22 and X54.15) cross without the din-w gene and with the Z chromosome
were maintained to adulthood (1.003-1.373 days). All were from the X. tropicalis father, we cannot prove that the supposed
phenotypic females and their fertility was analysed inducing Z chromosome was, in fact, W.
ovulation by hCG treatment. No egg production was The histological analysis of the gonads revealed that most
observed after several trials with each female. males and females were sterile, as they did not present germ

cells, regardless of the combination of sex chromosomes inherited
. . or fro h tal ies (fi 1). Hi ra fe les of

(b) Interaction between X. Iaevis and X. tropicalis m each parental species (figure 1). However, a few examples 0
male and female gonads with some germ cells were observed in
sex-determining genes in a hybrid background several clutches (electronic supplementary material, figure $4). To
a. . determine if germ cells reached the gonad, we analysed the his-
(allotriploid hybrids, LST) tology of hybrid gonads between the stages NF50 and NF54. At
earlier stages, germ cells were found in most of the gonads ana-