tiles have ESD. A detailed list of reptile species with expected to occur during millions of years of independent
documented ESD can be extracted from [47,58] (lizards), evolution. Such translocations of small chromosome frag-
[59] (turtles) and [60] (crocodiles). ments are common and well documented in amniotes with

sequenced genomes. In fact, the identified genes from the
cobra W chromosome have homologues scattered across the
3. Evolutionary history of sex determination in chicken (Gallus gallus, GGA) genome, i.e. linked to chromo-

. soe . somes GGA 1q, GGA 2p, GGA 3, GGA 5, GGA 6, GGA 7,
amniotes: critical overview of current models GGA 8, GGA 10, GGA 11, GGA 15, GGA 17, CGA 23,

As reviewed above, it seems that for many amniote lineages: GGA 27 and GGA Z [68]. The interpretation that few genes
(i) the sex determination is, in fact, stable over the long term, homologous to several chicken chromosomes might indicate
(ii) ESD is relatively rare in comparison to GSD, and (iii) tran- that the corresponding blocks were once part of a single
sitions among particular sex determination systems are less ‘super-sex chromosome’ in the ancestral amniote is not very
frequent than previously expected. The situation is still too convincing to us. Translocations of these genes to snake sex
complex and poorly investigated to allow straightforward chromosomes by minor rearrangements during hundreds of
reconstruction of the deep evolutionary history of sex deter- millions of years of amniote evolution, e.g. during 280 Myr
mination. It is obvious that sex chromosomes are non- since the separation of snake and avian lineages, seem more
homologous among many amniote lineages, but from the plausible to us. Such insertions of minor chromosomal
perspective of the test of non-random co-option it is crucial regions can be also detected in autosomes by cross-species
to decide whether in some cases sex chromosomes of distant comparisons between the genomes of birds and snakes
lineages were inherited from a common ancestor, or evolved with chromosome-level assemblies [71]. Furthermore, sex

independently, and what was the ancestral sex determination chromosomes are enriched for genes with sex-specific