gametogenesis and reproductive modes of hybrid sex pre-meiotically endo-reduplicated their chromosomes in

clonal, hemiclonal and meroclonal vertebrates the oogonia and formed bivalents, formally recombining
There is another important aspect of the evolution of between self-duplicated sister chromosomes (auto-copies),
‘asexual’ and several allopolyploid hybrids, which has which allowed successful accomplishment of oogenesis but
an apparent analogy to the accumulation of postzygotic yielded no variability among offspring (figure 1). Thus, despite
reproductive incompatibilities, ie. the tendency to arise completing the meiotic divisions, females reproduced clonally,
asymmetrically in both sexes. In particular, most ‘asexual’ while males were sterile [66,198,199]. Another type of asymme-
vertebrates exhibit strongly female-biased sex ratios, which tries has been documented in medaka fish (Oryzias latipes x
is why they have also been referred to as ‘unisexual’ or O. curvinotus), in which female hybrids yielded clonal ova by
‘all-female’ species [49,164,192,193]. premeiotic endoreplication, while hybrid males skipped meio-

Such a female bias might result from the simple fact that sis and generated a single unreduced diploid spermatozoid
(hemi-)clonal males cannot generate progeny on their own, from each spermatogonium [183,200].
since their reproduction requires ova; even in cases like Differences between sexes exist also in ‘asexuals” with

androgenesis [194,195], where clonal sperm replaces egg genome elimination. For instance, in hybridogenetic water


frogs (Pelophylax esculentus; see below), male and female (ZZ/ZW), because recessive incompatibilities first appear | 11 |

hybrids typically eliminate the L(lessonae)-genome and in heterogametic females (ZW). Premeiotic or meiotic
produce hemiclonal gametes with only the R(ridibundus)- aberrations, enabling the evolution of ‘asexuals’, would thus
genome [201] (figure 1). However, some male hybrids present Haldane effects. Intriguingly, the absence of ZZ
produce the ‘opposite type’ of gametes by eliminating the R- males (predicted to be fitter) could arise owing to their inability