human male still produces over 200 million sperm per ejacu- induce epigenetic changes in sperm, with early indications
late [92]. However, all sperm are not equal, and only a suggesting that patterns of DNA methylation and histone
surprisingly small fraction of sperm needs to be functional modification are impacted and may be transmitted over sev-
for a male to be fertile. According to World Health Organiz- eral generations [116]. An exciting development that may
ation guidelines, an ejaculate is considered as normal fertility alleviate some of the infertility problems we are currently
with as little as 32% of sperm showing progressive motility facing is the recent finding that embryo development is
and 4% of sperm having normal morphology (strict criteria) enhanced by ‘starving and subsequently rescuing’ sperm
[103]. An under-appreciated implication of these differing motility prior to use in IVF [117]. Sperm were ‘starved’ by
figures is that many sperm with non-normal morphology are incubation in media without nutrients until sperm were no
able to swim normally, and could potentially successfully fer- longer motile, then motility was ‘rescued’ by adding energy
tilize an egg. Even less is known about how phenotypic substrates to the media. This process increased the number
differences in these fertile sperm relate to variation in off- of sperm that became hyperactivated, improving both fertili-
spring. In fact, selecting a subpopulation of sperm by zation success and post-fertilization developmental success
thermotaxis prior to ICSI results in a greater number of [117]. Embryo development is also enhanced by transient
high-quality mouse embryos compared to ICSI using unse- sperm exposure to a calcium ionophore [118], confirming
lected sperm [104]. Just as average sperm traits are that embryo development can be improved through modifi-
influenced by a male’s environment, the amount of variation cations to sperm incubation media used in ART. It is too
in sperm traits within an ejaculate can also be influenced by early at this stage, however, to fully understand the possible
environmental factors [105,106]. If these differences in sperm long-term effects of such seemingly positive interventions.

traits are associated with differences in offspring traits, then
any factor influencing which sperm within an ejaculate ferti-
lizes an egg could also influence offspring.

6. Conclusion and future directions