least in their minds, if not also among their peers—a desired manized outgroup members. Importantly, the speed at which =
social status that might otherwise be unavailable to them. they made such decisions predicted their support for ideologi- = &
The issue, however, is that when people are convinced cal violence, such that faster judgements were related to greater =
that ideological violence is the only means of addressing support for violence against outgroup members. S
their grievance, they become overly involved in the need- &
satisfying ideology [34], completely absorbed by their politi- Ss
cal engagement. Over time, they also become possessed by a (b) Ego-defensiveness =
strong urge to engage in political or religious activism and The second regulatory mechanism that promotes violent ~
their self-worth inextricably contingent on the progression extremism is ego-defensiveness. When people's self-worth
of their ideology [8,35]. revolves exclusively around their ideological engagement,
There are two important shifts in self-regulation associated their identity becomes progressively unidimensional and
with this psychological transformation: (i) the reliance on goal- psychologically impoverished, with fewer interests [43]. The
shielding to manage goals that interfere with one’s ideological fact that their sense of identity becomes fragile and uncertain
engagement, and (ii) ego-defensive reactions to manage threats has several consequences.
to the self. Each of these regulatory mechanisms is associated First, ideologically obsessed individuals are more easily
with different sociocognitive processes contributing to violent threatened by information challenging their belief system,
extremism. These mechanisms and processes are not unique producing hatred and a desire to retaliate excessively. In an
to violent extremists; they can be experienced by any human interesting demonstration of this phenomenon, Rip ef al. [6]
being. However, the present theoretical framework posits that had Muslims read Pope Benedict XVI's Regensburg address,
it is their simultaneous manifestation in a single individual in which he quoted a fourteenth-century Christian emperor
owing to ideological obsession that makes them a particularly who stated that Islam is associated with ‘things only evil
dangerous, combustible, mixture. and inhuman’. The study’s authors found that ideologically

obsessed individuals who were exposed to the Pope’s
speech felt more hatred than those who were not exposed,