language prosody and comprehension of discourse [75]. At and synaesthesia/SZ can thus be seen as complementary con-
the same time, individuals exhibiting a mild, non-clinical ditions, with trade-offs in systematicity versus creativity, acting
manifestation of psychotic-affective conditions show relative as poles of otherwise continuous variability attested in humans.
strengths in the domain of pragmatics, when interpreting This proposal regarding ASD and SZ is significantly enriched
metaphors, emotions, humour and irony [76, p. 238]. In the by considering two additional conditions that also entail abnor-
same vein, relatives of people with SZ may have an advantage mal patterns of cross-modality and an altered management of
in artistic expression and originality [77]. aggression: synaesthesia and Tourette’s syndrome (TS). Similarly
These findings can be ascribed to a partial inhibition (ASD) to what we find in SZ and ASD, these two conditions also exhibit
or disinhibition (SZ) of cross-modality connections necessary an imbalance between inhibition and disinhibition, impacting
for metaphorical language, with milder manifestations of the upon both cross-modality and aggression.

latter condition conferring some adaptive advantages. In
fact, as discussed in Benitez-Burraco [78], the problems that

the affected individuals exhibit as well with literal meanings (b) Tourette's syndrome
might also result in part from the same altered pattern of TS is a hereditary tic disorder that is sometimes, not always,
inhibition/disinhibition, considering the fuzzy boundaries accompanied by involuntary production of obscene speech

between figurative and non-figurative language, with the and derogatory remarks/insults (coprolalia). The following


findings regarding TS are of direct relevance for our proposal: levels in response to stressors, which is also indicative of an | 5 |

(i) the linguistic nature of the derogatory language produced enhanced HPA responsivity to stress [109]. However, con-
by a subset of TS individuals; (ii) the abnormal processing of trary to what is observed in ASD, they seem to return to 3