order to corroborate this hypothesis, we first compute ‘early ance the distance between the true homeland and a single,
jump indices’ as the percentage of the distances traversed ‘best-candidate’, homeland even for the Bayesian methods,
during the first 4 time steps out of the sum of all distances tra- although these methods actually produce a range of credible
versed (results are in the file percent_early.txt in the electronic candidate locations rather than a single location. This was
supplementary material, folder SI-11). We then gauge the done in the interest of comparability. Now we look at
impact of early jumps on errors in two different ways, as fol- whether conclusions might look different when considering
lows: (a) early jump indices are correlated with relative errors the 95% HPD intervals, extracting these as done in [12].
across the 1000 cases; (b) following the traditional way of These intervals correspond to geographical ‘swarms’ of dots
defining outliers in a histogram, taking a larger outlier to that strongly tend to form circular or elliptical shapes. There-
exceed a value of 1.5 times the interquartile range, we identify fore, one can assess a result by fitting a convex hull to the
outliers in the early jump indices as well as in the relative swarm and determine whether the true homeland lies
errors and then compute an agreement index as the percen- inside or outside of this fitted periphery. This test, however,
tage of large error outliers that pertain to cases that are also is confounded by the fact that the area of the convex hull
large outliers in terms of their early jump indices. If errors can vary tremendously. For instance, if one method proposes
are in a large part owing to early jumps, the correlations an area almost corresponding to the extension of the entire
produced in approach (a) should be high, but the correlations family and the true homeland falls within this area, is it
are based on all 1000 sets, so factors other than early jumps then fair to say that the result is better than the result of
affect the results. Approach (b) is more focused just on the some other method whose output is an area that is ten
early jumps. Results for all baselines and methods except times smaller and lies in the vicinity of the true homeland
for centr, for which the correlations (approach a) were but does not contain it? In order to take this issue into
non-significant, are displayed in table 2. account, we record not only hits and misses, i.e. containment
Table 2 shows that the two approaches to measuring the within versus absence of the true homeland from the fitted
error rates’ sensitivity to early jumps agree (Spearman’s p = convex hull, but also measure the area of the latter. This
0.905) and that they both indicate relatively high sensitivities. allows us to produce a performance measure where the
Thus, early jumps are a problem for all methods. number of hits out of the 1000 cases is weighted (divided)