the observed conformity. Slow, progressive song evolution is of cultural mutation and transmission could also give rise to
a key feature of all humpback whale populations worldwide. revolutionary dynamics. We speculate that song revolutions
What processes (e.g. production errors, innovations), learning occur throughout the Southern Hemisphere [25], with recent
biases or individual(s) may be driving this evolutionary hints of directional transmission also emerging around
change, and how this may relate to fitness, female choice Africa [55]. This may be facilitated by geographical structure:
and reproductive success, remains elusive [25]. the large circumpolar feeding grounds lead to low rates of con-
Another key feature of humpback whale song is at the scale tact between neighbouring populations, while providing no
of oceans: within oceans, populations sing similar songs but landmasses to impede movement at high latitude. Moreover,
the degree of similarity depends on the geographical distance the west-to-east direction of the song revolutions observed in
and also appears to depend on the extent of interchange the South Pacific is hypothesized to occur owing to the relative
among populations [31-33]. Humpback whales spend the differences in population sizes. Novel song types appear to
summer months feeding in high latitudes before undertaking spread from large to small populations [7,52]. On the other
one of the longest migrations of any mammal to their low hand, the fact that revolutionary dynamics are empirically
latitude winter breeding and calving grounds, where they absent in Northern Hemisphere populations (primarily
aggregate around islands and banks [34-38]. They show located in the North Pacific and North Atlantic) may be due
strong maternally directed site fidelity to breeding and feeding to differences in learning biases, or alternatively could be
grounds, with occasional movement among locations [39-42]. due to differences in geography that affect the patterns of
Song sharing among populations is suggested to occur as a population interactions. The Northern Hemisphere popu-
result of three mechanisms [31], which have been demon- lations are constrained by continents on each side of the
strated to varying degrees around the world [39,42-49]. Song oceans, which prevents interaction between Atlantic and Paci-
sharing between populations can occur through males visiting fic meta-populations, while at the same time encourages
more than one wintering ground in consecutive years, by multiple populations to interact within an ocean by funnelling
males visiting more than one wintering ground within a populations into comparatively small areas (figure 1a) [25].
breeding season, and finally through song sharing on shared Experimentally testing such hypotheses is unfeasible;
feeding grounds and/or on shared or partially shared humpback whales cannot be kept in captivity, as they are