game theoretic approaches to study evolutionary endpoints to identify useful units of cultural evolution?

(ie. adaptations). By contrast, in cultural evolution there is no iii, What could be a useful concept of fitness in cultural evol-
generally accepted formulation of cultural fitness [104] as the ution, and, if it exists, how can it be used to study
relationship between the individual and its traits is more compli- cultural evolution?

cated. Here, transmission is not tied to biological reproduction,
can occur between arbitrary individuals, and the individual is

not fixed with respect to the cultural traits it possesses and exhi- (d) Trait interactions, cultural systems and evolving

bits to others during its life. These differences have implications evolutionary dynamics
both for the outcome of evolution and for how cultural evolution The facts that individuals acquire traits sequentially and that
should be theoretically explored [11,15,17,52]. In principle, any- traits can interact may have important organizing effects. The
thing that influences transmission, retention and use of cultural resulting developmental path dependence (see ยง3b) can limit
traits needs to be considered. which traits an individual acquires, and so promote the evol-
For instance, traits that are contagious enough can spread ution of cultural systems [22,55,66,111,112]. For instance, an
and be maintained in a population even if they reduce the individual might acquire a belief A about the world, which
survival and/or biological reproduction of individuals subsequently facilitates the acquisition of other beliefs that
[105-107]. Suppose lifestyle A produces more children than are consistent with A but leads to the rejection of beliefs
lifestyle B and that parental lifestyles are often transmitted that are not [113]. If, instead, the individual would first
to the children. However, children are also exposed to the acquire an alternative belief B, then this could trigger the
alternative lifestyle B, which is more attractive (e.g. because eventual acquisition of an entirely different belief system.
it is easier to learn). This may be driven by a genetic or cul- Similar reasoning can apply to other categories of traits. In
tural bias for this lifestyle, and could result in B increasing fact, there are many ways in which traits can interact and