scenarios out of three. Importantly, the low sensitivity our analysis of NHS 111/999 data, the approach does not
exhibited in some results can be largely explained by the account for transmission across different locations. The general
branching process used to simulate outbreaks: changes in Rt framework used in ASMODEE could in theory be extended to Ss
are only actually reflected in incidence time series after a lag multivariate time series models incorporating spatial depen- — =:
of at least one serial interval. Further work may focus on eval- dency, but the current implementation would need = 5!
uating ASMODEE using alternative models to simulate time additional work to support such features. In practice, we = &
series without such lag. expect this may only be a substantial limitation when very =
ASMODEE, as implemented in the package trend- good data on patient locations and movement are available. = &
breaker, is both much simpler than modified Farrington An alternative worth exploring would be to run ASMODEE =
(requiring fewer parameters to be fine-tuned for specific on spatially smoothed data [41] to reduce noise in data typi- >
contexts and diseases) and much more flexible (many cally observed in small geographical areas with low case s
kinds of statistical models can be easily integrated and numbers and therefore facilitate anomaly detection. Ss
automatically selected), as illustrated by the fact that we We expect ASMODEE will be most useful for surveying &
had to adapt modified Farrington to account for upward potentially large numbers of incidence time series, e.g. to
trends and produce meaningful results. However, it is detect flare-ups of COVID-19 in small geographical units
not the case that ASMODEE would always be the and/or specific population demographics. It may be best
approach of choice: modified Farrington has been developed used in conjunction with human judgement rather than as a
for very specific use cases and practical needs, namely the purely automated algorithm. For instance, ASMODEE could
longer-term surveillance of infections causing point-source rank incidence times series according to their respective num-
outbreaks, such as food- or water-borne diseases. Never- bers of ‘increase’ days, and then the highest-ranked series could
theless, we believe it to be a suitable benchmark for be examined by epidemiologists to decide whether further
COVID-19 as, for lack of more specific standard tools, it investigation is warranted. As such, ASMODEE could form
would still have been the default method employed for the basis for a daily COVID-19 surveillance system, and be reg-
COVID-19 surveillance. ularly refined, e.g. changing the duration of the detection
Other aspects of the ASMODEE remain to be investi- window (parameter k) or the alpha threshold to meet required