judgement occurs not as a context-general effect across mental states across the board. Instead, context mattered, and
societies, but within societies across contexts. In societies different societies treated the same context differently (e.g. in
that have been described as ‘low’ in mind-mindedness, some places, harm caused in the service of self-defence was
there are contexts in which mental states are considered in considered praiseworthy, in others not—but it was exculpatory
moral judgements; and in societies that have been described of blame everywhere). Finally, some contexts led to reduced
as ‘high’ in mind-mindedness, there are contexts in which importance of mental states across most societies—for
mental states are not considered in moral judgements. example, violating a food taboo. Together these findings sup-
The examples where mental states are not considered seem port the claim that all societies have contextual variation in

to be special cases, within societies. In the case of strict liability, when mental states matter, and how, for moral judgement.
while Curtin et al. [16] characterize whole societies as either What about norms of mental opacity? Are there whole
governed by strict liability norms or not, the evidence is in societies where people avoid considering others’ mental
fact more consistent with a more limited effect. In most of the states? Rumsey [21] has compellingly argued that norms of
societies they consider, rules for compensating damages recog- mental opacity are invoked not to suppress consideration of
nize the difference between accidents and intentional harms, mental states, but to generate skepticism and vigilance about
but restitution rules are designed to make victims whole. For people’s statements of intentions. Rumsey argues that attend-
example, Curtin et al. classify the Igbo as an ‘intermediate’ ing to, inferring, and distinguishing other’s intentions and
case of strict liability, but Elechi states simply, ‘Igbos dis- knowledge is as ubiquitous in the course of everyday life
tinguish between murder and manslaughter’, going on to among Ku Waru people as elsewhere. In legal transcripts,
describe how punishment and restitution are matters of nego- people remind one another to be skeptical of testimony about

tiation that depend on the circumstances of the death and the reasons and intentions, because one cannot be certain of


another’s thoughts. Minds are opaque because people may individuals and/or by groups. As an example, consider col-