the strategy. The strategies that do not punish are always the most popular of the variations, those that punish some combination of defectors or loners are =
common, while those that punish cooperators never survive for long. See electronic supplementary material, figure $5 for more details.

is]
3
supplementary material, table S2). The superiority of combin- would-be invader [25]. In either case, the average cooperation s
ing the reputation and punishment mechanisms remains level resulting from the cyclical behaviour is low. S
consistent with our findings, showing higher levels of Introducing into the OPGG the AD social norm (assigning S
cooperation when compared with our baseline model with- cooperators a good reputation and assigning better reputations
out reputation or punishment, and with the baseline model to agents that opt-out from the game than to those who partici-
with only punishment. While the model using solely repu- pate but withhold their contribution) significantly increases
tation does tend to increase cooperation, its behaviour is cooperation levels, unlike the other reputational systems. The
somewhat more dependent on specific parameter ranges of effectiveness of the AD norm depends on the fact that it pro-
the degree of mixing m (electronic supplementary material, vides a way for agents to condition their behaviour to the
figure S23) and of the stability of groups Q (electronic sup- propensity of their group to cooperate, while reducing the
plementary material, figure S21). Cooperation increases attractiveness of the loner action, which remains as a backup
when the degree of mixing m increases, likely due to the if the environment becomes too hostile. Accordingly, within
pool of available strategies for agents to choose to evolve the ecosystem of strategies generated by the introduction of
to. When m is small, players evolve based on a randomly this norm, over half of the population end up preferring one
selected player within their own OPGG groups. The likeli- of two strategies, C’ or D°". Players using either of these strat-
hood for a fruitful and cooperative player to exist within egies behave as loners if the environment becomes too harsh,
this group is lower than when m is high and players evolve but turn to cooperation or defection in a more friendly
probabilistically based on the payoffs of a randomly selected world. The backup option of abstaining from the OPGG on
individual from outside of their group. Instead, considering the one hand prevents defectors from over-exploiting coopera-
the likelihood of further interactions Q in the set-up in tors: if they are present in sufficient numbers, their bad