ity individuals when they undertake the risky costly signal, eventually, as evidence from pairwise interactions and failed
they are shielded by their high social prominence/capital: public signals accumulates, 5; decreases to the point where
onlookers use social prominence/capital as a prior, which we reach the separating equilibrium. That equilibrium fully
favourably colours their interpretation of the signalling act. reveals quality, which is why we see this rapid ‘fall from
These low quality individuals, however, do show a general grace’ (figure 3d). When memory is perfect (6= 1), as well as
decline in their reputation over time, so this shield is tempor- when pairwise interactions are uninformative, the reputational
ary. It is more long-lived when pairwise interactions are shield is more protracted (see the electronic supplementary
uninformative (or do not happen), and when memory is per- material, figures SI.4 and SI.7).
fect (5=1, electronic supplementary material, figure S17), In the electronic supplementary material, §2.4, we show
which allows misapprehensions to linger (see the electronic the robustness of our results to different assumptions.

supplementary material, §§2.4.1 and 2.4.2). We note also that
the fragility of the shield stems from the fact that signals can
fail with differential probability (the probability of success is . .
such that 6; >). The number of successes and failures, as 4. Discussion

well as the pairwise interactions, create a gradual flow of infor- Making inferences about others on the basis of their actions is
mation that slowly reveals quality. If we instead set 0; = 6, complicated. Generally, we should expect receivers of any


signal to use the information they have at their disposal to infer capital) relegate some individuals to sustained and largely ines-

the attributes and intentions of signallers. This could include capable reputational deficit is the essence of a poverty trap,
the signallers’ past actions or, as we have explored here, their shown by economists to afflict both individuals and whole econ-
social prominence or social capital. In our models, the pro- omies [79,80]. Note that this simple alteration of the pay-off