results in the electronic supplementary material). These use it. The answer that our studies provide to this question
variables accounted for 21.67% of the variance in gossiper is rather mixed. On the one hand, study 1 showed that
trust (F3156 = 14.39, p<0.001). Importantly, this revealed a people were generally less willing to trust gossipers who
significant positive effect of gossip accuracy (b=0.02, lied than those who told the truth in a hypothetical environ-

Fi156=7.03, p=0.009), such that participants trusted ment. On the other hand, study 2 showed that whether


people were more willing to trust honest gossipers in a live may provide a more honest signal of a target’s reputation

interaction with material consequences may depend on the than positive gossip (which may say more about the gossiper
trustworthiness of the gossip target. That is, when Agents than the target).
were trustworthy, honest gossipers were trusted more than Of course, the above suppositions are limited by the fact
dishonest gossipers, but when Agents were untrustworthy, that we did not actually test the impact of social sanctions on
honest gossipers were if anything trusted less. At the same gossipers’ tendencies to lie, and we focused on trust beha-
time, participants’ subjective perceptions of honesty did posi- viours. In relation to the former, whether or not social
tively predict their gossiper trust. Together, this suggests that sanctions increase the honesty of gossip is likely to depend
people’s perceptions of gossipers’ honesty may inform their not only on the existence of such sanctions but also on gossi-
decisions of how to treat them but are not alone in doing pers’ beliefs that such sanctions are likely to occur (for
so. Both studies provide initial evidence that suggests that evidence that target’s beliefs can mitigate against gossip inac-
gossipers who share positive gossip, whether honestly or curacy, see [10]). In relation to the latter limitation, trust =
not, are trusted more than those who share negative decisions are informed by a range of considerations including >
gossip—despite the fact that participants appeared to be the Agents’ trustworthiness and the participants’ distribu- Ss
better at detecting positive lies. tional preferences; decisions to punish or reward may reflect =
This valence effect may in part reflect the fact that gossip a different set of considerations and could therefore be more — 5!