for disseminating it (see [23,28] for a detailed discussion).
If coalitions indeed improve the collection, analysis and
dissemination of reputation-relevant information, then the
evolved psychology of reputational competition should be
sensitive to the quality of one’s own coalition and that of
one’s competitors: those with close, strong, high-quality
coalitions are more formidable in reputational contests than
those with low-quality coalitions. The studies presented here
aim to test our hypothesis that coalitions enhance not just
physical formidability, but also reputational formidability,
including that among women.

(a) Coalitional aggression participants themselves gossip about a fictional character
Among many non-human animals, both males and females (study 1) or report their perception that negative gossip will
form within-group coalitions and alliances to improve defence spread (study 2). Our randomized experimental design in
and acquisition of valuable, scarce resources [39,40]. In parti- study 1 allows us to determine if theoretically relevant factors
cular, coalitions help males and females to increase, and cause changes in gossip by adults.
especially maintain, social rank, which is a strong determinant According to results on physical competition in non-
of access to resources [40]. Evolutionary social scientists have human animals, the higher value and more limited a resource
similarly argued that coalitions and alliances can substantially is, the more competition there should be for that resource ([2],
enhance coalition members’ abilities to physically defend and and references therein). According to informational warfare
acquire valuable resources like mates, food and territory theory, allies should deter negative gossip and increase one’s
[5,41-46]. In humans, coalitional psychology has been linked ability to harm competitors with gossip. If gossip is used stra-
to an evolutionary history of warfare, an overwhelmingly tegically to increase access to contested resources, participants
male activity [5,47-51]. Studies have indeed shown a male in study 1 should: (i) transmit gossip that is specific to the