
closeness among the other members also correlated positively
with those members average perceived closeness to one
another (r = 0.57). These results suggest that sorority members
(a) Method and predictions: hig her real-world coalition tend to agree about their closeness to one another, a finding that

quality predicts greater expected reputational harm Partially validates our method.
to a fictional adversary

recruitment, payment for participation, etc.).

Informational warfare theory proposes that the coalitions of (b) Results: real-world coalition quality predicts greater
those who attack with gossip and those who are attacked expected reputational harm to a fictional adversary
by gossip can provide either more offence or defence in repu- See table 3 for variable summary statistics. We computed a mul-
tational battles. In study 2, we investigated the impact of tiple regression of ninabadrep as a function of selfclose and
participants’ real-world coalition quality on the reputation friendsclose (model 9 in figure 2; electronic supplementary
of a fictional competitor. material, table $4 and figure S6). This analysis showed that, as

Sorority participants read a scenario and imagined them- predicted, friendsclose was a significant positive predictor of
selves in it. The scenario placed the participant at a party ninabadrep, B = 0.31 (0.047, 0.57). Contrary to predictions, selfclose
with several members of her sorority, including a fictional was not a significant predictor of ninabadrep, B = 0.096 (0.17,
member, Nina. The participant talks to Nina’s boyfriend 0.36). The closer a sorority member perceives her own real-
throughout the party. At one point during the party, the par- world friends to be to each other (but not necessarily to herself),
ticipant inadvertently walks into a closed room and sees Nina the more reputational harm she expects to come to a fictional
and another man, a known troublemaker, taking cocaine adversary. To determine if selfclose, which was correlated with