vidual benefits at the expense of another) or cooperation of animal behaviour). The Nash equilibrium, i.e. the conven-
(individuals can benefit more by being selfish), individuals tion, is governed by initial conditions and dynamics
mutually benefit from coordination: it is in their own best (influenced by the way individuals choose to act and the
interest and in the interest of the partner(s) to coordinate. There- environment). Note that conventions require multiple equili-
fore, there is no conflict of interest between individuals when briums because if there are no alternative options, there
solving a coordination problem or when establishing a conven- would be no coordination problem to solve in the first place
tion. Rather, conventions are important because they help and two individuals would necessarily converge on the
stabilize interactions by creating mutual expectations between unique solution. However, different equilibriums need not be
individuals. Someone picking up his/her car in France expects equally rewarding: one may lead to higher rewards for instance
other individuals to drive on the right side of the road and so (called payoff-dominant strategies) and some equilibriums
adjusts his/her behaviour accordingly. These expectations may be more rewarding than others when individuals deviate
need not be explicit nor mutually acknowledged for a conven- from the equilibrium (risk-dominant equilibrium). Note that in
tion to exist [7]. In fact, sometimes we are barely aware that a the framework of game theory a convention is ‘arbitrary’
convention exists: you might lunch at a certain time simply because there are multiple Nash equilibriums to a coordination
because you expect other people to lunch around that time. problem, so a population could have ended up using another
According to Hawkins’ theoretical model [8], three processes convention. It does not mean that individuals are arbitrarily
allow the emergence and maintenance of a convention: the choosing one behaviour over another; they may strategically
population level (social network management and cultural choose a payoff-dominant strategy for instance. Importantly,
transmission), the dyadic level (coordination and social inter- compared to their one-shot counterpart, repeated economic
action) and the individual level (executive functions and games can help create conventions because with repetition
expectations). A convention is not necessarily created as a multiple equilibriums often appear [17].
result of a problem encountered by the whole population at To summarise, when individuals regularly face
one point. If enough dyads in the population repeatedly coordination problems, they may develop conventions as
encounter a coordination problem and each individual belongs solutions to these problems. Conventions are systematic
to several dyads, a population-wide convention can emerge. behaviours that are mutually beneficial and provide stable