theoretical framework proposed by Whallon [21]. Among on the topic). x
their conclusions, they argued that hunter-gatherer bands &
would have been more connected at ‘local, intergroup, (a) Approaches to identify cultural changes in the Ss
regional and supraregional scales when the costs of x
networking are low and environmental productivity and archaeological record _
predictability are also low’ [31, p. 85]. Altogether, the organ- In anthropology, and by extension in archaeology, the terms
ization of information networks at different scales (i.e. inter- cultural and/or technological trait, manifested in artefacts/
band, supra-band and regional network) varied across material culture, are used to refer ‘to a unit of transmissible
gradients of spatial connectivity, environmental produc- information that encodes behavioural characteristics of indi-
tivity and resource base predictability [31]. It is, therefore, viduals or groups’ [41, p. 693]. By tracking variations of
imperative to keep in mind that Late-Middle/Upper those traits in the material culture found in the archaeological
Palaeolithic and Mesolithic societies were not compartmenta- record (e.g. lithic raw materials, ceramic composition and
lized: they were in fact connected through movement and projectile-point morphology) through time and space, it is
information exchange. possible to identify changes in cultural patterns. In particular,

the most ubiquitous artefact category left by prehistoric
hunter-gatherers is lithic tools, which in most cases are

3. The scope for assessing cultural evolution in related to food-getting activities. Because lithic materials
. . are omnipresent and well-preserved across time, patterns
prehistoric archaeology of variation in artefact shapes and tool-making techniques
The use of evolutionary approaches to investigate cultural can be inferred in great detail. Importantly, the production
changes is relatively recent in archaeology [32-34]. The semi- of lithic artefacts is a type of knowledge that is acquired
nal works of Cavalli-Sforza & Feldman [35] and Boyd & through social learning. In this way, it favours the detection
Richerson [36] introduced the application of techniques of the inter-generational variability of socially transmitted