describes when and why synchrony might be possible in quence of this precondition is a restricted range of tempi around
the wild, given the temporal, sensory, motor and motiva- one’s own preferred rate with which an organism can accom-
tional constraints on a species’ natural repertoire. Taken plish 1:1 synchronization. When an environmental rhythm
together with a survey of the latent flexibility of an animal’s becomes too extreme, katydids switch to a 1:2 or 2: 1 synchro-
synchronization behaviours, these considerations will inform nization mode [25] or synchronize with unstable, constantly ==
us about the range of natural and in-laboratory conditions in changing phase relationships [19]. +
which we can experimentally test the capabilities and limit- Thus, empirically, synchronization can be identified based __
ations of animal synchronization, respecting the full range on the presence of anticipation and tempo-flexibility withina = =
of potential forms synchronization can take on. restricted range. This definition of synchronization is mechan- 5!

We must first consider what it means for any animal istically, motivationally and cognitively agnostic. This is ©
(human or nonhuman) to be capable of synchronization. important, as there is no privileged mechanism for synchrony =
Nonlinear dynamics prescribes a set of preconditions for across the animal kingdom. In fact, the mechanisms supporting = &
synchronization, from which we derive behavioural and synchronization differ within orthopterans [6,19,20,26,27] and =
theoretical consequences [15]. Notably, this definition of syn- within fireflies [3,28], and humans can achieve synchrony by >
chronization is a general one and can be applied as easily to a engaging different neural mechanisms depending on the dis- s
pendulum as it can to animal synchronization. ease state of an individual [29]. Both anticipation and tempo- Ss

First, the synchronizer must generate its own rhythm. For any flexibility have been recognized in the comparative literature 2
animal to be capable of synchronization, it must first be as critical features of synchrony [16,24]. However, this is the
capable of auto-generating a rhythmic behaviour that can first acknowledgement we are aware of that tempo-flexibility
then become synchronized to an environmental rhythm. Cri- must necessarily be rate-restricted. This definition has clear
tically, this distinguishes synchronization from repetitive and actionable consequences for empirical assessments of syn-
reactions to repetitive stimuli, which may occur independent chrony in different species that necessitate the adoption of an
of the presence of regular rhythmic structure in a stimulus. ecological approach: we must establish the natural range of be-