sequently between the input and overt behaviours that use the ‘predicts’ the input instead of passively reacting to it [40].
internal pulse as a temporal reference). Studies of externally This approach can be easily applied to transiently changing
paced finger tapping responses (the sensorimotor synchroniza- signals where the phase of the input and the response can be
tion paradigm) have revealed that these mechanisms include located at specific time points of the signals based on reason-
reactive error correction processes entailing phase and period able assumptions (e.g. one-to-one finger tapping to brief
correction [49]. Moreover, additional online mechanisms metronome sounds).
include anticipatory processes that allow the timing of upcom- However, locating the relevant time points may be difficult
ing sensory events to be predicted during ongoing tempo with smooth continuous signals [11,83,150,151]. Moreover,
changes [1,130]. These processes may be engaged differently beyond the conventional one-to-one finger tapping paradigm,
depending on attentional resources [131], individual charac- it is often not feasible to determine the target time points in the
teristics [132,133] and task demands [134,135]. Temporal input. In spontaneous one-to-N tapping with a fast metro-
adaptation and anticipation are nevertheless fundamental pro- nome, for example, it is often difficult to know which
cesses, and evidence for their operation has been observed in metronome ticks are the targets. In fact, even in one-to-one
the macaque monkey [107]. In humans, adaptation and antici- coordination, ‘predictive’ responses can be simply considered
pation mechanisms are also sensitive to hierarchical metric a precisely timed ‘reactive’ responses to previous events in
structures, and can use multiple periodicities in the stimulus the input [12]. Nevertheless, it is evident that most tapping
to stabilize performance [14,136]. behaviours described in humans and non-human primates

are not simply reactive responses. When the periodic input
stops, subjects can continue to tap with a very similar period
(if instructed or trained appropriately). Thus, the neural rep-
resentation of the pulse can be studied in a synchronization-
continuation task, where initially the subjects synchronize
movement to a periodic stimulus, followed by an internally
driven epoch, where the neural pulse runs endogenously in