lines, where each line corresponds to the onset and duration of the activation period for one cell. The simulated 200 cells are sorted by their peak activation time,
generating for each produced interval an evolving population pattern of activation. The vertical lines correspond to the tapping times (triangles on top). Note that a
similar population response profile is repeated in a cyclical manner for the four intervals (colour coded) and that the resetting of each moving bump corresponds to a
potential internal pulse representation. (c) Neural trajectories during the synchronization task. The trajectory starts from the first tap, completes a cycle during every
intertap interval and returns to the tapping manifold. We assume that the tapping attractor area in state space, highlighted by a box, is the internal pulse manifold
which is invariant across durations. The metronome’s tempo modulates the amplitude of the trajectories.

acoustic inputs [113,114]. However, the auditory cortex of time interval, scaling in speed as a function of pulse
monkeys is still capable of spontaneously extracting the regu- period [120,121]. Interestingly, neurons encoding elapsed or
larity of isochronous acoustic sequences, as evidenced by remaining time are tuned to the tapping rate, generat-
neural responses to sound omissions in an auditory metro- ing period-dependent subpopulations for pulse processing
nome captured by scalp EEG on macaques [115]. Moreover, within MPC [122,123]. These neural signals are far from
the fact that macaques show human-like frequency-following static. MPC cells are recruited in rapid succession producing
EEG responses elicited by fast acoustic periodicities suggests a progressive neural pattern of activation (called moving
that their auditory system can precisely encode fine sound bumps) that flexibly fills the time interval corresponding to
timing, thus providing a critical basis for coordination of one pulse period (figure 2b). This neural pattern may thus pro-
movement with incoming acoustic inputs [116]. Secondly, vide a relative representation of how far an interval between
the periodicity extracted from the sensory input must be two successive metronome events has evolved [124,125].
mapped onto an internal pulse-like representation of time. Another critical aspect of the MPC periodic clock is that it
Converging evidence suggests that the core timing network resets on every pulse period cycle. Thus, the progressive
comprised by the cortico-thalamic-basal ganglia skeletomotor pattern of activation starts with a group of cells, migrates to
circuit (CTBGc) constitutes the neural underpinning of an other cells during the timed interval, stops with the last
internal pulse representation [117-119]. Specifically, the group of cells and simultaneously is initialized for the next pro-
medial premotor cortex (MPC), composed of the supple- duced interval with the previous initial set of cells [70,125]. The
mentary motor cortex proper and the presupplementary neural cyclic evolution and resetting are more evident when