

Figure 4. An optimized hierarchical artificial neural network for recognition of sounds as speech or music, after Kell et a/. [172]. Auditory input is shown at the left
(spectrogram-like representation of sound). Lower level processing stages shared by speech and music are shown in black and white, higher level stages and streams
unique to each domain are shown in colour. (Online version in colour.)

cortical regions [173-175] yet also have neurally specialized pathways important for BPS in humans and homologous
processing in non-primary auditory cortex [176-178]. pathways in other primates owing to the limited vocal learn-

The rVLH's prediction of neural overlap between BPS and ing abilities of those species. For example, the rVLH predicts
high vocal learning is consistent with studies finding links that connections between the secondary auditory cortex and
between childhood speech-related abilities and non-linguistic parietal cortex (red pathway linking superior temporal gyrus
beat processing [179-181]. At the same time, the fact that the and parietal cortex in figure 3c, see §5) will be much stronger
rVLH posits evolved neural specializations for BPS is consist- in humans than in monkeys or chimpanzees. This prediction
ent with the existence of congenital ‘beat deafness’, in which can be tested using structural MRI methods such as diffusion
individuals with normal hearing and musical pitch percep- tensor imaging, which are currently used to compare human,
tion have severe problems perceiving and/or synchronizing monkey and chimpanzee cortical connectivity [189,190].

with a musical beat [182,183].
The rVLH further predicts that human developmental

neuroscience will reveal experience-expectant plasticity in cir- (iii) Genetics

cuits underlying the capacity for sustained BPS [184,185]. For BPS to be subject to gene-culture coevolution, it must have
Finally, as noted at the end of the previous subsection, the a heritable genetic substrate. Recently, a large-scale genome-