tems where both parasites and hosts are dispersal limited. leads to specialization and limits range expansion (see [47]).
Indeed, due to the nature of the helminth life cycle, these We only found an effect of host composition on parasite
parasites rely on hosts for dispersing, and amphibians are B-diversity for global nematodes (table 1). This result is
recognized for their poor dispersal abilities. For instance, hard to interpret and run against the existing theory [10,14]. =>
Buckley & Jetz [41] found spatial turnover to be around and our predictions. First, host composition may be less 5
four times higher for amphibians than birds, which is consist- important for helminths of amphibians than for other host = =
ent with amphibians having many small-ranged species. groups, indicating that perhaps these parasites are more gen- >
Besides being dispersal limited, previous studies argued eralists. However, we believe that the most likely explanation is __
that habitat specialization is a relevant factor determining methodological. As shown inelectronic supplementary material, — =:
small range sizes from amphibians compared with birds table S2, parasite composition was mostly available for two host S'
and mammals [7]. As a result, the marked differences in com- species per site. This represents only a subset of theavailablehost =
position between sites and regions may be explained by the pool, which can result in low statistical power to detect a host =
fact that poor dispersers may have higher speciation rates effect. Moreover, this lack of response may need further investi- = &
(as gene flow decreases) [42]. gation. Despite the fact that parasite dissimilarity is unusually iat
We found evidence for increasing the importance of high even at the regional scale (see electronic supplementary >
niche-based processes from the global to the regional scale. material, figure S10), GDM is quite strong in the face of response s
This result is expected and follows the observed increase in data with a large bias towards high dissimilarity values. The Ss
niche-based processes at proportionally smaller scales (e.g. nonlinear link function used in GDM is intended to address, at ea
[29], but see [30]). However, we accept that this finding is least in part, the issues posed by high dissimilarity values,
not surprising, given that distinct realms with distinct para- including total dissimilarity (see [37]). Such high dissimilarity
site and host pools are being compared at the global scale, also highlights the need for more studies investigating parasite
implying that species composition is likely to vary signifi- B-diversity both within and between realms, adding valuable
cantly, and that these variations would increase with sampling sites and host species.
distance. This will result in low predictive power for any Another interesting finding is that the separate analyses on
factor other than distance, as turnover would be extremely Nearctic nematodes of Bufonidae, Hylidae and Ranidae