
As individuals reach the end of their lifespan, the question In the sequential steps of the reproductive cycle, multiple

of declining fecundity or terminal investment—increased EoS mechanisms can interact, so that changes in flowering be-
reproductive effort before death—arises. Life-history theory haviour can result in reduced predator satiation. In European
predicts that as mortality increases with senescence, resources beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) trees, for example, increasing temp-
should be allocated to reproduction rather than growth eratures have reduced the sensitivity of individual trees to the
or defences [70]. This phenomenon is commonly found in iter- masting cues, resulting in more asynchronous flowering and
oparous animals [71], but ‘folk knowledge’ about similar seeding [44]. Asynchronous trees that show reduced variabil-
effects on plant reproduction drives a persistent misconcep- ity in seed production consequently experienced higher
tion. While certain stressors drive trees to temporarily levels of pre-dispersal seed predation [82], highlighting that
increase reproduction, there is no evidence that impending EoS-related fitness consequences can result in selection for
natural death is associated with bumper crops. In fact, seed mast seeding at the individual tree level.
production appears to stagnate or decline before death Among evolutionary hypotheses overlooked in the past, © =
[61,72,73]. Interestingly, evidence is accumulating that long- the environmental prediction hypothesis is receiving new sup- >
lived trees experience ‘negative senescence’ during which port thanks to increased data availability and resulting insights _
mortality rates decline with age after surpassing a threshold into spatio-temporal patterns of masting [83,84]. This hypoth- =:
[74]. More broadly, the growth and reproduction of old and esis proposes that plant populations synchronize their mast — 5!
ageing trees are important aspects of the ongoing discussion years based on weather cues that also predict favourable con- >
about forest management under rapidly accelerating climate ditions for germination, seedling emergence and survival. =
change [34]. Considering how natural disturbances can favour subsequent 3
Looking ahead, the study of individual development wil plant reproduction provides a new perspective on this process. =
help our understanding of the contribution of genetic and This includes beneficial changes in light regime, soil conditions, >!
environmental effects to the reproductive phenotype, clarify water and nutrient availability for offspring. Vacchiano et al. s
the role of demographic composition and facilitate conserva- [40] highlight how drought, heat waves and wildfires are fore- Ss