of masting in plant populations [94]. This environmental pre- =
diction hypothesis (EPH) affirms that plants can ‘predict’ the s
best future environmental conditions for germination based . . . =
on weather cues, and regulate the timing of masting to ensure 4. Masti ng and disturbance regimes =
favourable conditions for seed germination, seedling emer- Every ecosystem is subject to a variety of types of disturb- = =
gence, and survival [95]. This hypothesis has so far received ance, each with a characteristic regime. How do the features =
little empirical support, mostly because it relies on unlikely of a disturbance regime, such as frequency, severity or  &
‘weather forecast’ abilities by plants, i.e. an ‘abstract’ future pre- extent, influence their selective pressure on masting? What =
diction of environmental characteristics. However, when are the disturbance regimes under which we expect the S
grounded in disturbance ecology, the EPH is consistent with strongest selection of masting traits? &
biologically and evolutionarily sound mechanisms. Selection Disturbances can vary extensively in frequency, from a Ss
for masting occurs if the offspring reaches sexual maturity; in few to several hundred years [8]. In general, selection for eS
fact, disturbances not only act as cues for seed production but adaptive reproductive strategies is strongest when disturb-
may also promote (or hamper) survival of the post-disturbance ances are more frequent and/or predictable [111]. The
generation, which will experience evolutionary filtering. Under relative magnitude of selection also depends on the growth
this perspective, it appears that disturbances can act both as rate of the organism: disturbances must recur with a fre-
proximate drivers (directly or indirectly, see §2) and—via quency comparable to or shorter than the organism’s
environmental prediction—as ultimate causes of masting [96]. lifespan to elicit an evolutionary response [112-115]. Conver-

For the well-documented case of white spruce in boreal eco- sely, when disturbances are infrequent relative to a species’
systems of North America, Ascoli ef al. [19] provided strong lifespan, or unpredictable, individuals cannot adapt to the
evidence that the existing large-scale synchrony between seed disturbance regime [111]. Indeed, life-history traits of organ-
masting and drought-induced fire seasons share the same isms that have fast growth and mature quickly do not
weather drivers, thus supporting the EPH. respond to disturbance selection as strongly as slow-growing,
