suggests that the timing and extent of seed production may be detected decades after the event [8,24]. At the study site,
be decoupled to some degree, so that other individual or the recovery of the vegetation cover to pre-fire states is
site-specific factors such as rhizome size, soil properties, rapid, however, and long-term changes in species compo-
water access or conspecific density could affect the number sition were only observed under fire exclusion [34-36].
of acorns a stem can produce. Seed predation and dispersal by vertebrates can be

Rapid recovery of acorn production when resprouting affected by fires as well. Granivorous rodents, which

following fires may provide fitness benefits, as fires can mainly function as seed predators of acorns and other large
open new areas for colonization nearby. While population seeds (e.g. [59,60]), avoid recently burned areas and thus
dynamics and ground cover of rhizomatous oaks during dis- reduce acorn pilferage rates [57]. Scatter-hoarding corvids,
turbance-free periods are mainly driven by vegetative growth however, often prefer recently disturbed areas, including
and cloning [55,56], fires can open competitive space for dis- fire scars, for seed caching [61-63]. In fact, territories of the
persed seeds in areas where non-sprouters dominate or were federally endangered Florida scrub-jay in our study area
killed. Reduced vegetation cover and increased nutrient con- include substantial proportions of recently burned areas,
tent in the soil may result in better seedling establishment which quickly become of high value as the vegetation
conditions than before the disturbance [25,57]. However, recovers [64]. These jays harvest and individually cache thou-
while low-severity fires may occasionally increase germina- sands of acorns each fall, and their preferred cache sites are
tion of acorns cached before [57], seeds near the surface, open sand free of leaf litter [65]. Fires create numerous such

and in shallow caches will generally be killed [58]. In clear spots, which invite acorn caching and thereby generate


Table 5. Drivers of synchrony in acorn production. Results of multiple regression on similarity matrices with acorn count or co-occurring seed production | 10 |
(checkerboard score) as dependent variable and proximity (log-transformed), elevational distance and fire history as predicting variables. For acorn count,