signalling something unique that arousal alone does not. Auth- negative (cries) nonverbal vocalizations. Since our analysis
enticity often correlates with arousal [16,20], as increased only focused on nine acoustic features, one possibility is that
arousal has been linked to the presence of ‘hard-to-fake’ proper- these specific cues play a more subtle role when predicting
ties of voices, but our findings suggest they reflect dissociable affective and social evaluations of cries. This could also explain
dimensions of vocalizations. Supporting this notion, studies the smaller difference in perceived authenticity between spon-
using facial expressions indicate that spontaneous and acted taneous and volitional crying compared to laughter.
smiles are accurately discriminated even when the stimuli are Additionally, as noted before, the particularly challenging
matched for perceived arousal [53]. The links between pleasant- task of producing spontaneous crying in an experimental set-
ness (valence) and trustworthiness of vocalizations confirm the ting could have accounted for the smaller acoustic differences
alignment of the two variables in the two-dimensional social between spontaneous and volitional cries. Studies testing
voice space [1,54], as they are both related to approachability other acoustic parameters are therefore warranted.
in social interactions. By contrast, prediction of social inference Limitations of the current study include the relatively small
from affective ratings was generally less robust in the case of number of stimuli per condition and also the fact that vocaliza-
dominance, which could be related to the lower agreement tions were pre-selected from a larger set, ie. we only included
among participants when judging how dominant a speaker part of the recorded stimuli. The current findings should be
sounded. Alternatively, these findings may highlight the pri- replicated in future studies that include a larger number of
mary role of trustworthiness (relative to dominance) in social stimuli and other vocal emotions (e.g. negative vocalizations
evaluations [55,56]. such as anger). Another aspect is that we only obtained infor-
However, the effects of objective authenticity on affective mation about the speaker’s affective states in an informal
and social ratings differed for laughs and cries. Spontaneous way, at the debriefing stage—in future attempts to record spon-
laughs were perceived as more positive than volitional taneous vocalizations, it will be important to address this issue
laughs, but spontaneous cries were not perceived as more in a more systematic and quantitative way.

negative than their volitional counterparts. Additionally, spon-
taneous cries were associated with the lowest authenticity