lucid commentary by Noah Rosenberg [8]. bution to the volume [36]. The volume also has a S
The next section of this review, ‘Background’, situates concentration of papers on human variation and evolution: w
Lewontin’s work in terms of a complex set of antecedents, the final five papers in the volume are focused on the subject, 3
including his now little-known work on the textbook Quanti- including a contribution by Dobzhansky, who possibly  S
tative Zoology [9], as well as an interest in information theory invited Lewontin to submit to the volume. One of those Ss
and debates in evolutionary genetics at the time. The hope is five human-oriented papers was titled ‘Polygenic inheritance = &
that by understanding the foundations of the work, we might and human intelligence’ [37], though its author, Michael
gain a deeper understanding of the reasoning of the paper, Lerner, tried explicitly not to discuss the ongoing controver-
and in turn more clearly navigate the subsequent critiques. sies about human genetics and race. Dobzhansky himself
The third section, ‘The results and reactions’, discusses had long been steeped in discussion about the taxonomic
how his key result was both supported and contested by sub- value of the race classification, defending a concept of race
sequent publications. Many of the critiques criticized a in biology and its applicability to humans [38].
conclusion that Lewontin did not in fact draw; the apparent Whether Dobzhansky and the other editors were seeking
critique by Edwards [10] in particular considers a different a piece from Lewontin that might honour Simpson and/or
aspect of the taxonomy problem from the one Lewontin address genetics and race in humans is unclear. Lewontin
aimed for and does not invalidate the central insight pro- and Simpson likely interacted when they were both at
vided by Lewontin’s result. We will see how much of the Columbia in the early 1950s, and while relatively unknown
apparent controversy here was due to a confusion about the today, Lewontin had a substantial collaboration with Simp-
focal question. For Lewontin, the question was not whether son. In 1960, Simpson and Lewontin co-authored the
genetics can be used for studying relationships among indi- second edition of the textbook Quantitative Zoology, along
viduals (i.e. whether genetics can be a basis of taxonomy); with Simpson’s wife Anne Roe [9].
he was asking rather whether human racial groupings have First published in 1939, the book teaches a rigorous,
taxonomic significance in the sense that they are predictive numerical approach to questions in biology, including taxon-
of meaningful differentiation at a typical genetic locus. omy. Lewontin was added as an author for the 1960 edition
The fourth section, ‘Lasting legacy’, considers how the due to his expertise in biometrics, a field that had blossomed