he was asking rather whether human racial groupings have First published in 1939, the book teaches a rigorous,
taxonomic significance in the sense that they are predictive numerical approach to questions in biology, including taxon-
of meaningful differentiation at a typical genetic locus. omy. Lewontin was added as an author for the 1960 edition
The fourth section, ‘Lasting legacy’, considers how the due to his expertise in biometrics, a field that had blossomed
Apportionment’s key result became a sound bite, so well- since the original publication of Quantitative Zoology. The new
used that it is at times applied in vague and mistaken ways edition added a chapter on the analysis of variance (‘This
even by its advocates, a slippage that likely invited some of must now be considered an essential and basic technique in
the later critiques. Despite its importance, Lewontin under- Quantitative Zoology’ p. vi), which Lewontin most likely
stood that the result does not provide a single answer to all wrote given the style and themes that it emphasizes.
arguments about genetics and race. Yet, in showing how As an application of the analysis of variance, the chapter
human genetic differentiation is much lower than one describes how ‘a problem common in experimental taxon-
would suppose from looking at surface indicators like skin omy is that of distinguishing geographical races’ (p.304).
pigmentation, the result endures as a key fact about human Though it is not explicit about defining criteria for races, it
genetic variation that reaffirms that nothing about human presents an example from Drosophila persimilis from three
genetic diversity is as simple as it first appears. Finally, box geographical localities in western North America. Unlike
2 on ‘Teaching the result’ gives some insights and references what he would later find for human groups, the genetic var-
on some approaches to teaching the result. iance in bristle number across localities was estimated to be

about 4-fold larger than that between individuals. As the
chapter explains ‘The reasonable conclusion from the analysis

2. Backg round is that the populations [...] are genetically different and con-
stitute distinct geographical races (under one commonly

(a) In the spirit of Quantitative Zoology? accepted criterion of race).’ (p.304)