Washington Post by a reader critical of The bell curve, demon- nation of Nei and Roychoudhury’s papers and the accelerating

strating that, by this time, lay audiences were already well- citation of Lewontin 1972. Similarly, although we found no


explicit citations of Lewontin 1972 in HGP-related publications literature that it even has its own name: Lewontin’s fallacy, | 12 |

and communications, the architects of this project may have named for a biologist who popularized it’. Such statements lio-
been motivated to amplify the ‘sound bite’ of the paper because nize Edwards’ critique as the authoritative interpretation of |S
of its implicit endorsement of a single human reference genome Lewontin’s results and paint Lewontin as a solitary proponent 3
as representative of all humanity. of this claim, despite more contemporary research that has lar-
Though literature citations of Lewontin 1972 have tapered gely vindicated Lewontin’s interpretation and demonstrated
off in the last 5 years, the Twitter data we analysed showcases that Lewontin did not, in fact, commit ‘Lewontin’s fallacy’
how the study has persisted in the academic and public (e.g. [6,66,97-102]). Moreover, we find that the Twitter users
discourse, accumulating roughly two tweets per day, with who vehemently oppose the conclusions of Lewontin 1972
approximately equal attention from academic and non- often have significant overlap with extreme far-right political = >
academic audiences. Our analysis differs from most other communities, underscoring how rejection of Lewontin’s 5
altmetric studies because we primarily focus on ‘dark interpretation has become a tenet of white nationalist =
citations’ found on social media (i.e. references to the study ideology. +
that do not directly link to a DOI or URL and thus are One such individual who appeared in our dataset is Ss
not tracked by Altmetric and other altmetrics data brokers). Renaud Camus, a prominent white nationalist French =
The concept of ‘dark citations’ has been previously used to writer who gained notoriety for coining the term ‘Great repla- 5!
describe the practice of referencing prior published work in cement’, a conspiracy theory that postulates white European &
a journal article without an explicit citation [18], but it is per- populations are being demographically and culturally =
haps even more relevant for altmetrics where much of the replaced by non-white immigrants through policies enacted = &