
specific population; the black line represents the overall Fst for each window; the black dashed line is the average overall Fst for the entire chromosome. The vertical N
lines delimit the MHC region, within which HLA genes are contained. See electronic supplementary material, table 51, for 1000 Genomes abbreviations of population
and region names.

as compared to kinship within populations from other for HLA genes: ‘it is among the gene frequencies that have
regions. However, within the MHC region, Africans have a not diverged, those associated with small F values, that we
higher population-specific Fs than in the remainder of the should look for selection. In particular we should look for
chromosome, and Asian and European populations show heterotic selection tending to retard divergence among the
the opposite, ie. a reduction in their Fsy values within the isolated groups with respect to these loci.’
MHC (figure 2, see MHC region delimited by vertical lines). While the analysis of individual SNPs provides a compel-
The increase seen for Fsy in the African MHC region reflects ling case that Fs values within the MHC region and HLA
the fact that, for this genomic region, Africans do not have a genes are lower than the rest of chromosome 6, it is the
markedly higher diversity (and thus a lower degree of HLA protein, defined by a combination of amino acids
within-population kinship) than do other populations. The (figure 1), which has properties that determine the peptides
overall Fey (i.e. the average of population-specific Fsy values) that can be bound and the degree of identity between
reaches its lowest value in chromosome 6 within the MHC donor and recipient, in the context of bone-marrow trans-
(black line in figure 2). Although the window size used in plantation. We therefore re-coded the 1000 Genomes data
figure 2 (5 Mb) is much larger than the region influenced by for HLA-A, -B and -C loci at the level of HLA alleles. To quan-
balancing selection, the analysis illustrates how variation tify the apportionment of genetic diversity, we revisited
within a small set of loci shapes features computed for a Lewontin’s approach, applying it to 20 human populations,
much larger region (explaining why the MHC region as a divided into four continental groups. In line with the results
whole is often filtered out when genomewide inferences of of Lewontin [1], we found that for the 1000 Genomes data
demographic history are of interest). most of the variation lies within populations (table 1, first
The outlier status of the windows in the MHC region can be row). We also revisited previous studies which specifically