‘transfer’) when applied to patients drawn from other popu- noted, whatever stratification approach is adopted will fail
lation backgrounds, many PRS are less predictive when used many patients whose genetic identities do not otherwise
for non-European ancestry populations [62]. Why this is the correspond to the chosen categories.
case remains an open question, with commentators noting Along with the lack of an objective way to identify popu-
the role of population genetic differences in underlying allelic lations of interest, there is the equally significant problem of
architecture and patterns of linkage disequilibrium, as well as the disconnect between human population genetic structure
the likely contribution of non-genetic risk factors and popu- and non-genetic population arrangements such as, for
lation-specific gene-environment interactions [54,61-66] (see example, socially ascribed racial and/or ethnic identity [75].
box 2). Irrespective of the exact explanation(s) for this, now Often, what is medically relevant about populations (and
well-recognized ‘transferability problem’, there are tangible hence what influences the predictive value of a PRS) is a func-
implications of the difficulty for the deployment of PRS in tion of the social and/or environmental risk factors shared by
clinical practice in ways that are useful and will not exacer- that population, and not the allele frequencies of the popu-
bate health inequities. And while many, creative, solutions lation in question. This fact all but ensures that ‘all-purpose’
to the problem are currently being actively explored PRS will capture spurious associations and risk that is not

[63,69,70], it is not clear that even the best designed approach causally associated with the alleles in question (per box 1).


Box 1. Sib-pair controls and population structure.

The sib-pair method is one way to test for the problem of traits covarying with populations, and genetic differences between
the populations therefore being statistically associated with the trait in question, despite not being causally involved in the
development of the trait (in other words, to test for the effects of residual or cryptic population stratification). To adapt an
example from Coop [54], imagine running a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on a diverse population that included
both people native to, say, Liverpool, England, and people native to, say, Paris, France, and looking at the trait ‘pounds of