difference (females were on average 0.4—0.5°C cooler than blue tits (Cyanistes caeruleus), mean eye region surface
males), but even after accounting for this effect there were temperature dropped by around 1°C within 10s of being
consistent individual differences in maximum head tempera- suddenly trapped inside a box, then increased to a peak
ture, which may reflect underlying differences in metabolic around 1°C above baseline when they were captured, held
rate [82] and potentially stress physiology [52,66]. An interest- in the hand and blood sampled by an experimenter,
ing avenue for future work would be to explore the extent to followed by a decline back towards the baseline lasting for
which these differences are linked to genotype, by comparing 1-2 min after capture [54]. The reason for this temperature
the temperature profiles of related and unrelated individuals. peak after the initial drop is unclear, but it may be linked to
We did not find evidence that temperature differences were the mechanisms that re-establish homeostasis after SIH [31].
related to behavioural role: average baseline temperature Intriguingly, a temperature peak was not observed in chickens
did not predict whether an individual would be the aggressor that were cradled rather than side-pinned [50], nor in blue tits
or the recipient in a given dominance encounter. More exten- that were trapped but not handled or blood sampled [52]. The
sive observations of these pheasants would be needed to fact that we observed such a peak in freely interacting pheasants
establish whether any behavioural differences are linked to shows that transfer of heat from the experimenter’s hands [54] or
repeatable differences in physiology, as has been suggested a specific mode of handling cannot be the explanation in this
elsewhere [67,83]. Furthermore, given that our measurements case. An alternative possibility is that the post-drop peak is a
were taken from a single 13 min period for each group of response to more intense stressors [50,54], which would sup-
pheasants, it is unclear whether the observed temperature port the notion that dominance interactions are a highly
differences would persist over a longer timescale, or are salient, albeit short-lived, stimulus for these group-living
more reflective of transient differences in state on a particular birds. It is also possible that the temperature changes we
day. It would be interesting to investigate this by collecting observed were linked to rapid head movements by both
equivalent measurements across multiple days. birds, as the aggressor attempted to peck the recipient and

Despite the significant repeatability, we also found that the recipient attempted to avoid being pecked. More research
maximum head temperature varied within individuals is needed to identify the particular circumstances that induce