trast with DIS and GAP that involve no contact. Furthermore, a with potential circularity in the analysis by introducing a random-
CHA interaction can last several seconds, while a PEC lasts for ized data splitting approach. Splitting the observational data into
only a fraction of a second. Additionally, during CHA inter- two parts allows us to independently estimate rank differences
actions, the actor accelerates and runs at high speed, sometimes and interaction rates for pairs of individuals (step 1 in figure 1).
covering a substantial distance, which thus represents a consider- By repeating the random splitting in a bootstrapping-like process
able energetic investment relative to ‘lower-cost’ interactions (step 6 in figure 1)—where observations are randomly re-allocated
involving little to no movement. While the distinction between to each variable in every run—this procedure also provides an esti-
these interaction categories is very clear in vulturine guineafowl, mation of the uncertainty of the relationship. Second, we include a
other studies may opt for a more quantitative approach for null model—here a permutation test [41]—to quantify how the
grouping interaction types [34], although we note that doing so observed interaction frequency compares to the expected inter-
could potentially require careful consideration of circularity if action frequency given opportunity to interact alone (steps 3-5 in
interaction networks that map differently onto individuals may, figure 1). We refer to this interaction frequency corrected for
in fact, be the outcome of different strategies. We omit opportunity as the ‘tendency to interact’.
‘fights’—as defined previously for vulturine guineafowl [30]— The first step of our approach randomly splits the directed
because these are infrequent, have no clear directionality and interactions dataset into two subsets. Given our large observa-
typically occur between social groups. tional datasets, and evidence that robust dominance hierarchies
Submissive interactions typically function to signal existing can be generated using relatively few observations [42], we use
dominance relationships—e.g. ‘pant-grunt’ vocalizations in a 30% subset of the data for calculating individuals’ hierarchy
chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) [35,36]—and probably allow indi- positions (and subsequent pairwise positional differences), and
viduals to avoid conflict or receive aggression. Accordingly, the the remaining 70% non-overlapping portion of the dataset to
submissive interactions, SUB and SUV, were both deemed to infer pairwise interaction rates. Accordingly, the dataset is ran-
be of low (or no) cost to the actor and thus grouped into the domly split to independently estimate the two axes of interest:

least-cost ‘submissive’ category. differences in hierarchy position and directed interaction rates.
