
presence dynamic x age class

Figure 5. Modelled effects of the interaction between individuals’ (a) sex and age class (1, 2, 3, 4+ i.e. adult), and (6) age and presence dynamic (arriving, leaving,
local) on individuals’ monthly frequency of received aggressions (predicted count values), generated with the ‘ggeffect’ function in R package ggeffects [58]. Error
bars in (a) and shaded area in (b), respectively, represent 95% confidence intervals around the estimated marginal means. (Online version in colour.)

this foraging community is independent from the frequency of than 60% of observation sessions). Hence, even when daily
visits to our specific study site. However, it does not necess- foraging groups are small, the number of individuals encoun-
arily mean that dominance status is independent from how tered within a period of 1.5 years is relatively large. The
often individuals meet with others. Indeed, ravens likely rely inferred hierarchies in our population included around 50
on multiple sites to forage, e.g. other anthropogenic food marked birds per period, which were seen at least 10% of
sources. It is thus likely that birds that encounter each other the time at the feedings. The fact that on average only half
in our foraging site also meet in other locations [38]. Future of the birds in the local foraging groups are marked suggests
studies will aim to investigate multiple neighbouring foraging that ravens foraging at our study site might be able to deal
sites to detect communities of individuals that meet more often with up to 100 conspecifics. Such estimates compare well
than others, and analyse whether dominance rank is bound to with the extensive memory skills for conspecifics found in
a specific geographical location or a community of individuals. elephants [83], sheep [84] and dolphins [85], and are in line

with the hypothesis that high degrees of fission—fusion
dynamics may lead to improved memory skills [31].

(c) Im pl ications for cognition Surprisingly, the daily affiliative ratio (amount of affiliations
Our surprising findings on dominance hierarchies suggest initiated and received) did not seem to predict individual rank
that wild ravens can cope with and keep track of a relatively or how much they received aggressions. However, besides indi-