autonomous, but heavily dependent, elements co-evolve with which are less likely to experience boom-and-bust growth
their host bacteriophage and their broader genomic milieu. cycles and the associated stresses. Such patterns illustrate the
Pervasive MGE-MGE competition can also cast MGE dynamic evolution of MGEs in the context of organismal __
accessory traits in a new light. Virus-host mutualism, in genomes, demonstrating how varied selection pressures can =
which viruses confer beneficial traits on their infected hosts, dissociate self-reproducing MGEs into constituent modules. =
is widespread [48]. One common mechanism, found across Advances in long-read sequencing have also enabled = =
bacteria, is where phages encode toxins that facilitate inter- larger, repetitive MGEs to be completely assembled and =
strain interference competition [49]. Sulfolobus islandicus, a studied, and recent years have seen an increase in the identifi-  &
hyperthermophilic Archaeal denizen of volcanic hot springs, cation of super-sized MGEs, including megaplasmids, which =
can be chronically infected with the virus Sulfolobus spindle- in some cases represent megabases of DNA and harbour hun- =
shaped virus 9 (SSV9). Chronic infection imposes only a dreds of genes [56,57]. With plasmid size spanning three orders s
small fitness cost, because SSV9 reproduces by budding from of magnitude, what factors drive megaplasmids to become so Ss
host cells, without lysis. In fact, in communities, SSV9 provides large, and what are the consequences for microbial genome S
a competitive advantage over uninfected strains [50]. DeWerff evolution? In their review of the field, Hall et al. [58] suggest
et al. [51] demonstrate that this advantage is due to a virus- that while there is no meaningful size threshold for assigning
encoded specific toxin protein that kills competitors. From megaplasmid status, distinct selective pressures can favour
the perspective of the virus, killing potential hosts seems coun- and stabilize larger plasmids and their magnified capacity
terintuitive, but experiments combined with comparative for HGT.
genomics revealed that related spindle-shaped viruses carry Comparative genomics is likewise uncovering the opportu-
different toxin variants, and it was the carriage of a heter- nism and mosaicism that have emerged as a defining feature of
ologous virus that rendered strains vulnerable to a toxin. This MGE evolution. The plasmids of the agrobacteria—rhizobia
complex network of cross-targeting makes sense in the context complex provide a graphic example. Analysing over 4000 plas-
of virus—virus competition, with the host cells caught in the mid sequences from this agriculturally-, biotechnologically-
cross-fire. and ecologically-important group, Weisberg et al. [59] focus
Together, the understanding that MGEs are adapted for on the evolution of the characteristic oncogenic plasmids that