as pOXA-48 throughout the study. (6) Fitness effects associated with plasmid acquisition in E. coli MG1655. Each bar corresponds to the median value of six replicates = =
(36 for MG1655) with each point representing an independent biological replicate. Numbers within each bar show the cost of each plasmid (% reduction in fitness
relative to plasmid-free MG1655).

machinery, alter the transcriptional profile of their host and should show negative (synergistic) epistasis for fitness. This
drive the expression of dozens of foreign proteins that can hypothesis is based on the following three premises: (i) the
negatively interact with host cellular networks [3,5-9]. translation machinery of wild-type E. coli is highly optimized

The universality of these potential sources of plasmid costs to maximize growth rate in different environments and meta-
is a matter of debate, yet it is generally accepted that the pertur- bolic states [18,19]; (ii) exogenous genes compete with
bation produced by plasmids (and other forms of HGT) on housekeeping genes for the translational apparatus, and thus
the translational machinery of the cell leads to a fitness cost the production of plasmid proteins diverts resources from the
[8,10-13]. This perturbation stems from the fact that plasmids synthesis of essential proteins [20,21]; and (iii) bacterial
and chromosomes usually present different GC content, and growth rates are proportional to the available ribosomes and
consequently, plasmid genes typically show a different codon their peptide chain elongation rate [22]. To test this hypothesis,
usage bias from the host chromosome [14]. This discrepancy we took advantage of a collection of E. coli mutant strains
creates an imbalance between charged tRNA abundance in that either have reduced ribosomal availability or processivity,
the cellular pool and the tRNAs specified in the codons of and experimentally measured plasmid fitness costs for six
plasmid genes. Therefore, the abundance of some tRNAs diverse clinically relevant plasmids. Our results suggest that
becomes suboptimal, leading to the sequestration of rare the translational demand of plasmid genes is not enough to
tRNAs and ribosomes in foreign transcripts, and slowing account for their cost, suggesting that additional mechanisms
down the elongation of nascent proteins. As a result, the might explain why plasmids tend to be costly in the absence
overall translation efficiency of the cell is reduced and of direct selection.

the host fitness decreases. In agreement with this idea, compu-