diversity, their propensity to recombine, and horizontal trans- Selection simultaneously acts on plasmids from multiple levels
mission across phylogenetic boundaries [841-44]. For [55]. Selection acts on plasmids directly, favouring those that are
example, some ICEs are more closely related to plasmids more effective at persisting and transmitting. At the same time,
than other ICEs, with plasmid-like features such as extrachro- selection acts at higher levels of biological organization, for
mosomal replication and partitioning systems [45,46]. Recent example, at the level of the cell or the population, indirectly
network analyses have had some success in categorizing plas- favouring plasmids that enhance the fitness of their microbial
mids into clusters based on genome-level pairwise similarities, hosts. Selection also acts at lower organizational levels: that of
but such schemes ignore core functional identities of plasmids transposons or insertion sequences, which can exploit plasmids
like replication and transmission, and can still produce edge to spread to new hosts. Plasmid gene content is shaped by these
cases and mosaics that defy unambiguous classification different selective pressures (alongside genetic drift, which is
8,47]. Overall, though there may be trends, exceptions are thought to be relatively weak in most microbial populations
often the rule. Arguing over ‘what counts’ as a megaplasmid [56]). Selection at different organizational levels is not necess-
may not be helpful in understanding their biology, as replicons arily aligned—in fact, it is often assumed that there is some
have the potential to cross size thresholds and _ transition trade-off between host-level and plasmid-level selection, such
between essentiality/non-essentiality with ease. With these that plasmids which are more effective at transmission are
concepts and ideas in mind, we would like to offer a somewhat more of a burden on their hosts, while those that benefit their
provocative view that perhaps plasmids, megaplasmids, and hosts become less proficient at horizontal transmission [57,58].
chromids should be considered as a spectrum that varies in In the long run, plasmids might be expected to become either
multiple characteristics including size and ‘essentiality’ rather efficient parasites that have shed any genetic cargo that does
than generic placement into defined orthogonal groups. not enhance their selfish reproduction, or domesticated mutual-
There exist relatively small plasmids that are absolutely essen- ists that are incapable of autonomous replication or
tial for physiological functioning of cells, such as the 9.4 kb transmission [59]. Prokaryotic genomes are subject to a dele-
ribosomal RNA-encoding plasmids of Aureimonas [48], and tional bias, and thus plasmids exist under a constant threat of
gigantic plasmids that are expendable and whose fitness effects gene loss [60]. It may therefore seem surprising to find large
are only apparent in specific niches and contexts, for example, megaplasmids that both confer many beneficial traits, and