pulses of heightened humidity [61]. Such patterns of fragmen- Tropical xerophytic shrubland is clearly identified as the
tation and coalescence present typical predictions from a most abundant biome within both refugia, both in terms of
refugia model that can be tested against archaeological, fossil the most common biome present in any given location and
and genetic evidence as contributing to the generation of popu- in terms of gross abundance throughout the Late Pleistocene.
lation structure [5,6]. However, sub-Saharan refugia are largely This in part probably reflects its widespread distribution in
contiguous within the broad refugia model, prohibiting Africa throughout the Late Pleistocene, and precipitation
straightforward predictions for patterns of human phylogeo- envelope used in this analysis, which is in part corroborated
graphy. In this case, there is greater potential for adaptation by our examination of the eastern African record. Given its
to divergent precipitation regimes, providing an alternative abundance, we may anticipate human adaptive strategies to
mechanism for divergence between populations, such as have focused on engaging with subsistence resources associ-
between groups occupying landscapes with 400-600 mm ated with this biome, with mobility providing a ready
and 1200-1400 mm mean annual precipitation. As such, strategy to ensure continued accessibility of these resources.
the persistent habitability of large regions of Africa within A growing body of research is illuminating the fact that
the broad refugia may not have necessarily resulted in large areas of Africa may possess suitable climates for
large-scale population connectivity, presenting an alternate forest cover; however, natural and anthropic disturbance
hypothesis to refugia models in which disconnected can prohibit the establishment of forested biomes, resulting
populations are simply adapted to different local conditions. in more extensive coverage by savannah-type landscapes
Adaptation to a single biome necessitates biome stability [67-69]. The presence of other biomes within refugia is
to identify refugia and would have resulted in highly spatially distinct and more circumscribed, with the Maghreb,
restricted population distributions. Yet the majority of both Ethiopian Highlands, Congo and Lake Victoria basins and
precipitation refugia experience some extent of alternation interior of South Africa preserving alternate forest habitats.
between biome types that is also characteristic of changes The appearance of forests within these regions plays an
between open and forest landscapes. Our review of previous important role in the identification of major ecotones and rep-
studies highlights the potential importance of being able to resents contexts in which distinctly composed ecotonal
access alternate biomes to the definition of human refugia, habitats provide a discrete buffer against either the spread