. Results MAF lower than 5% were also removed. The retained

age . matrices contain between 14164 SNPs for the European
(a) Characteristics of subpopulations selected for wine group and 82869 SNPs for the 1011 strains and cover

genome-wide associations the entire genome in each dataset (table 1). After these prun-
The performance of genome-wide association studies varies ing steps, the distribution of the MAF shows a rapid decrease,
greatly depending on the characteristics of the population with a strong bias toward the low frequency variants
used to conduct the experiment. In order to evaluate the influ- (figure 1b). However, the distribution of the MAF is more uni-
ence of parameters such as minor allele frequency, sample size form for the mixed origins dataset, and the sake dataset has
and relatedness, we used six different sets of individuals from 13% of the SNPs with a MAF of around 0.49. These latter
the 1011 sequenced isolates of S. cerevisiae. Among the different SNPs are distributed across the entire genome and this bias
clades identified though the analysis of phylogenetic relation- is linked to the fact that half of the sake strains are clustered
ships between the isolates [4], four were directly selected as on a thin branch of the tree, suggesting that they are very
subsets: European wine, sake, mosaic region 3 and the mixed close and share a recent common ancestor (figure 1a).
origin cluster (figure 1a). We have also included the complete In order to test the ability of each dataset to map the

dataset with 1011 individuals and the sampled diversity causal variants responsible for phenotypic variation,


extensive simulations were performed. The causal genetic false positives. The sample size is not the only factor influen- [5 |

determinants of two types of traits, Mendelian and complex cing the FPR, as the sampled diversity shows the best

traits governed by one and a large number of genetic variants performance, and the European wine cluster (second highest g