sampled diversity and the 1011 strains datasets are the least notype shows a high genome-wide heritability for the full
likely to detect spurious associations. The sake dataset has dataset (83.78%), which is of the same order of magnitude
the most outliers, with 17 of them being above 10%. This pro- as the heritability used to simulate the phenotypes in this
portion is surprisingly better than for the mapping of a study. The gene CUP1-2 is the main copper-activated metal-
Mendelian trait, but still very high. The distribution of the lothionine in S. cerevisiae. The protein Cuplp binds and
genomic inflation factor 2 of the 1000 runs per dataset (elec- sequesters copper(I), Cut, allowing the cell to control
tronic supplementary material, figure S8) indicates that most copper ion homeostasis. This ion, although essential for the
datasets have 4 values closely centred on 1. The sake dataset survival of yeasts, is also an environmental heavy metal tox-
appears once again as an outlier with a much broadly distrib- icant at high concentrations, which is used, for example, to
uted value of 4, confirming that a high proportion of false kill downy mildew in vineyards, where S. cerevisiae is often
positives can be expected with this dataset. found. Tandem duplications of the CUP1 gene are frequent
We observed a tendency for FPR to increase as the TPR in budding yeasts, and the tolerance to copper ion is corre-
increases, illustrating the intuitive fact that causal variants lated with the number of copies of this gene [17]. As the
can be mapped by chance if there are many SNPs that copy number variation of the CUP1-2 gene is known to be
have been significantly identified. However, this tendency is of major importance for this trait, it is expected that associ-
less marked as the sample size increases (electronic sup- ation with well-suited datasets should easily detect this
plementary material, figure $9), which is consistent with genetic variant.
the previous result showing that a large sample size will The association was performed with the same method as
reduce the false positive rate. that used for the simulations, with a dataset-specific threshold
These results show that the sample size clearly influences determined by 100 runs of permutations. The copy number
the GWAS result, in particular in the case of a complex trait variant of CUP1-2 was not detected in the sake, the mixed
but also that this parameter is not the only one to influence origins and the mosaic regions 3 datasets (electronic sup-
the GWAS result as the sampled diversity shows very good plementary material, table S4). The mosaic region 3 and the
results with only 133 individuals. sake datasets also showed associations with other variants
