spontaneous behaviours. Thus, reinforcement of hypothala- the last two decades now place the hypothalamus at the
mus-driven early life behaviours can be seen to be manifest rostral-most portion of the neural tube, with the classical tele-
over both short and long timescales. neephalon (end-brain) identified as its dorsal elaboration

The telencephalon, by contrast, is an instrument for devel- 163,64] (figure 2a). As a consequence, the hypothalamus and
oping expertise and learning complex behaviours. In the early traditional telencepha ion are now believed to occupy the
postnatal period, as an animal engages interactively with the same segmental territory of the neural tube (neuromere).
environment, the telencephalon is subject to continual modifi- Within this neuromere, the telencephalon bears a similar

cation as animals are exposed to important features of their anatomical relationship to the hypothalamus as the tectum
environment. While its basic components and anatomical bears to the midbrain or the cerebellum bears to the rostral

connections are in place at the time of birth in primates pons. The fact that both structures reside within the same

[31-38], abundant neural plasticity persists during the post- neuromere may be imy portant from an evolutionary perspec
natal period. Dendritic spines and synapses proliferate after tive. Structures occupying, the same brain segment are more
birth [39,40], peaking in different brain areas in the first likely to retain their basic organization and interrelationship
months or early years of life before declining to adult levels through evolutionary change [65]. In the case of developmenta
during adolescence [41]. Exuberant white matter projections self tuition, this conserved organization may translate to func-
undergo pruning, including long-range descending projec- tional principles, namely the coordinated and progressing
tions [42,43]. Postnatal neurogenesis is thought to support early life roles of the hypothalamus and telencephalon. :
forms of early life plasticity in the telencephalon [4446] and . The Prosomeric framework alters not only the topological
cerebellum [47]. Patterns of myelination and gene expression view of brain areas, but also their interconnections. The connec-
related to cell differentiation continue to evolve gradually, tions in and out of the telencephalon are particularly relevant
through adolescence [48,49]. Within the cerebral cortex, one to the present article (figui - 2b), and are deseriped more fully