Furthermore, generative models come in different var- figure 3. The figure plots the expectations of the prior and pos-
ieties. This implies that the brains of different animals may terior observations and autonomic actions over time. In this
correspond to different (simpler or more complex) generative example, y is initially within an acceptable range but shortly
models, which in turn enable different (more or less sophisti- afterwards it increases suddenly (say, following exposure to
cated) cognitive abilities. However, the diversity of generative sunlight), causing the expected x under posterior beliefs to
models is not unbounded but has to follow two kinds of con- increase. The discrepancy between the predicted y given pos-
straints. First, all the generative models include some terior beliefs and the measured y is registered as a prediction
predictive motifs and—under gradualism—the most sophisti- error. Given that the objective of active inference is to minimize
cated generative models inherit (and extend) the predictive prediction error, the model triggers an autonomic action (u),
motifs of less sophisticated models. This implies that the cancelling the prediction error. Note that in this example, the
space of the generative models that a particular animal can posterior belief over x is not a veridical representation of
evolve is constrained by the generative models of its ances- body temperature (it is ‘scaled down’ by the prior belief).
tors. Second, it is possible to define a priori which problems This exemplifies the fact that control demands are more
can or cannot be addressed by using different kinds of gen- important than representational accuracy.
erative models. This implies that the generative model of This simulation illustrates a simple generative model
each particular animal is tightly constrained by the statistics (homeostat) supporting homeostasis via error correction: by
of their ecological niches and the control demands of their registering prediction errors and actively cancelling them.
bodies [22,23]. This error correction scheme can be considered a basic ‘pre-
Hence, it is possible to ‘reverse-engineer’ the evolutionary dictive motif’ of generative models for active inference and
history of brain designs, by (i) starting from simple ‘predictive is in continuity with feedback loops often found in the
motifs’ putatively present in the brains of our evolutionary physiological control of body organs.
ancestors; then (ii) considering which expansions of these While for simplicity we considered a single homeostat
motifs (e.g. richer predictive loops) are possible and what that controls an aggregated variable (body temperature),
novel biological problems they solve; and (iii) matching these regulatory problems—such thermoregulation—often imply
basic or expanded motifs to the brains of specific animals in a the combination of multiple, heterogeneous (e.g. feedback