some priors p(x)—such as the fact that body temperature fluc- denotes the thermoreceptor activation and the (hidden) vari- =
tuates around 37°—can be considered prescriptive goals that able x denotes body temperature. The model infers the =
characterize the organism in terms of its prior preferences posterior belief over x by combining the prior belief over x = 4
(‘how the world should be’), rather than statements about the and the interoceptive sensation y. The prior belief plays the s
environment. While in standard Bayesian treatments priors role of a cybernetic set point to ensure that body temperature Ss
are constantly updated during inference (following the motto remains fixed at 37°. ree
that ‘today’s posterior is tomorrow’s prior’), in active inference Much like a thermostat, this model maintains the requisite
some priors remain constant, because they have very high pre- temperature by reporting the discrepancy between predicted
cision (and are, therefore, very recalcitrant to updating). In this and sensed thermoreceptor activation, given (Bayesian) beliefs
way, they can function as set points that promote homeostasis. about temperature, triggering an autonomic reflex (u) resulting
Nevertheless, these innate priors can be updated at slower (e.g. in, for example, vasodilatation, which resolves the prediction
evolutionary) timescales [21], hence allowing organisms to error. The functioning of this model can be appreciated by con-
‘learn their preferences’ and adapt to their niches. sidering the (fictive) example of homeostatic control shown in
Furthermore, generative models come in different var- figure 3. The figure plots the expectations of the prior and pos-
ieties. This implies that the brains of different animals may terior observations and autonomic actions over time. In this
correspond to different (simpler or more complex) generative example, y is initially within an acceptable range but shortly
models, which in turn enable different (more or less sophisti- afterwards it increases suddenly (say, following exposure to
cated) cognitive abilities. However, the diversity of generative sunlight), causing the expected x under posterior beliefs to
models is not unbounded but has to follow two kinds of con- increase. The discrepancy between the predicted y given pos-
straints. First, all the generative models include some terior beliefs and the measured y is registered as a prediction
predictive motifs and—under gradualism—the most sophisti- error. Given that the objective of active inference is to minimize
cated generative models inherit (and extend) the predictive prediction error, the model triggers an autonomic action (u),
motifs of less sophisticated models. This implies that the cancelling the prediction error. Note that in this example, the
space of the generative models that a particular animal can posterior belief over x is not a veridical representation of
evolve is constrained by the generative models of its ances- body temperature (it is ‘scaled down’ by the prior belief).