
neuroarchitecture

Let us return to the question of mental categories studied in

neuroscience. Are standard terms like ‘attention’, ‘memory’ 8. Attention

and ‘decision-making’ useful for studying and describing We now turn to a discussion of a specific mental function,
the relationship between brain and behaviour? More ‘attention’, and briefly illustrate the difficulties of mapping
directly, what should the neuroscientist care about? We argue standard mental terms to the brain. Several investigators
that a comparative understanding of the general vertebrate have pointed out that ‘attention’ is not a coherent concept, as
neuroarchitecture strongly constrains the classes of mental it is linked to multiple processes ([9], and references therein).
processes in vertebrates. In particular, the functions supported In fact, it is not even clear if attention is ‘cause’ or ‘conse-
by the neuroarchitecture do not align themselves well with the quence’. For example, Krauzlis et al. [54] argue that attention
standard decomposition. In other words, in part, our argument arises as a byproduct of circuits centred on the basal ganglia
is that the standard decomposition would require an organiz- involved in value-based decision-making; in their view atten-
ation that is relatively modular. We argue, instead, that tion is an effect, not a cause. If one accepts the notion that
fundamental principles of the neuroarchitecture indicate that attention is not a unified concept, how should it be conceptual-
it is not. ized? As a first step, we propose to conceptualize it in terms of

In particular, the neuroarchitecture is not ‘additive’—in multiple attention-like selection mechanisms.

the sense that new components are added atop an ancestral The advantage of doing so is that selection can be applied
organization—as proposed by Edinger. As an example of across multiple mental domains, including those that are con-
non-additive changes, consider the organization of the basal ventionally described as motivational, affective, cognitive