position themselves in the medial superior margin of the locations on the body on a general egocentric map. Rather a
cortex, while upper regions of multimodal and motoric series of overlaid maps are described, some representing dis-
space abut the temporal lobe [90]. In order to participate in tance with respect to the mouth, or either hand, or the
this organizing egocentric topography for action, the position midline, or created ad hoc [174-177]. The formerly perplexing
of eyes-in-head, head on neck and torso rotations must be inte- study of 23 mammals varying in ‘dexterity’ from the slow
grated to allow the head to turn or the hand to reach towards a loris and rabbit to the marmoset and macaque [109], concerning

desired goal. To the surprise of most of the original researchers the measured volume of cortex contributing corticospinal


neurons to upper limbs, can now be put in context. Direct-pro- visual representations in even nocturnal animals like rats and

jection cortical volume did in fact correlate with dexterity, but mice. The relative representation of vision in ‘non-visual’ mam-
that volume in turn was entirely accounted for by total cortical mals such as these exceeds that of diurnal, shore-dwelling
volume. Considering the sequence of body, hand, eye and sharks and rays [94,184]—perhaps not surprising given that
mouth spatial registrations required for a monkey to request estimated night-time visual ranges on land exceed daytime
social foraging for an insect in the pelt of another monkey, ranges in water [2]. The diurnal, high-visual-acuity terrestrial
catch the insect with a pincer grip, visually inspect it, and mammal does not have an aquatic counterpart.
bring it to its own mouth, the need for cortical volume in The distance information available to an animal will also
excess of the neurons generating the immediate volume of the probably privilege different memory and decision-making
corticospinal tract origin is no longer mysterious. strategies. Consider a diurnal marmot-sized mammal entering

As to functional homology of these functions across a large, fairly open field ina woodland thatit has entered before,
aquatic to terrestrial environments, by their simple descrip- compared to a trout viewing the extended riverbank before it.
tion, they cannot be homologous—fishes are not required to The marmot has had the opportunity to ‘tag’ the multiple