assessed species are facultatively sexually reproducing, i.e. initiated seascape genomics. The first study that used biophysi-
have sexual and clonal reproduction. This has important impli- cal modelling in combination with population genomic
cations also for the potential fit to biophysical modelling, as assessments using SNPs was published in 2016 [24]. Between
generally only one of the reproduction modes disperses with 2016 and 2021 the mean number of SNPs used was 6335.
ocean currents. For instance, in seagrasses, clonal reproduction Choice of marker type did not seem to influence fit between
is via rhizome extension, at the scale of centimetres per year, genetics and biophysical models (60% of papers using microsa-
while fruits or seeds attached to shoots (sexual reproduction) tellites found IBO, 57% of publications using SNPs found IBO
can potentially be dispersed for hundreds of kilometres. The and 56% of papers that used one or few gene markers found
amount of sexual versus clonal reproduction at a specific site IBO; however, unclear cases were highest with single/few
may therefore play a role for the geographical scale of dispersal genes (39%) compared to 16% in papers using microsatellites
and the fit with biophysical modelling. The situation is very and 29% in papers using SNPs). For assessment 2, marker
similar for corals and some facultatively sexually reproducing type played a role, as only few papers that used single genes
algae, also included in this survey. In fact, the proportion of were classified as ‘structure-barrier’ (17%) compared to publi-
species that reproduce both sexually and clonally is similar in cations using microsatellites (70%) and SNPs (62%). Single
the IBO and ‘unclear’ categories (33% for IBO and 35% for gene markers used in early studies seem to contain insufficient
unclear), but higher for IBD (42%). This could reflect the fact information about recent genetic processes as the fit to predic-
that in facultatively sexually reproducing species, biophysical tions from biophysical models was generally poor. This is
dispersal modelling does not catch very local dispersal by expected since differentiation in gene markers generally
clonal reproduction, and is therefore less realistic—at least if reflects processes in deeper time. Genomics and thousands of
sexual reproduction rates are low. There were no strong SNPs did not provide more power for analyses that look at
patterns in regards to PLD among the three categories in gene flow based on neutral markers. This is an interesting find-
assessment 1, but all six cases with a maximum tested PLD ing, and elevates the value of past and current microsatellite
above 200 days were assessed as ‘unclear’. assessments investigating neutral population structure. This
With respect to the type of fit between genetic and is of course in stark contrast to seascape genomic studies that
biophysical methods according to assessment 2 (table 2), assess local adaptation, where the increased power coming