Figure 3 shows these comparisons for two dominance be less important when numbers are larger. There is, never-
values—h = 0.02 (figure 3a,b) and h=0.1 (figure 3c,d). Note theless, a moderate decrease in m2 with K, which can be
that we only consider predictions of the semi-deterministic rationalized as follows: the (detrimental) genetic effects of
analysis (equation (2.3)), which assumes that population migration on the large-population state are more effectively
sizes are sharply clustered around the peaks of the distribution compensated by its demographic effects when islands
and transitions between peaks are infrequent. This assump- are smaller (lower carrying capacity), allowing the large-
tion clearly breaks down close to transition thresholds (e.g. population state to persist despite higher levels of migration
see figure 2e,f); thus, thresholds observed in simulations may on such islands. Finally, the third threshold m,3, which sig-
differ somewhat from semi-deterministic predictions (details nals the emergence of a migration-dependent low-load state
in the electronic supplementary material, appendix B). More- (at large 2LU) is also highly sensitive to the demographic
over, the semi-deterministic analysis neglects all effects of migration, and becomes unrealistically high in the
demographic stochasticity, and thus does not account for the large K limit, where increasing migration can only shift
fact that changes in K will affect not just the (systematic) demo- allele frequencies but has little effect on population numbers
graphic effect of migration but also the (stochastic) effect of (relative to carrying capacity).
demographic fluctuations. Nevertheless, the semi-determinis- A comparison of the top and bottom rows in figure 3,
tic analysis is useful as it allows us to explore qualitative which correspond respectively to h=0.02 and h=0.1, shows
dependencies of critical thresholds on the underlying that as deleterious alleles become less recessive (larger h), the
parameters without resorting to time-consuming simulations. parameter regime in which increasing migration eliminates
Figure 3a,c show the critical selection thresholds Ks, (as in the large-population equilibrium shrinks drastically, and only
figure 1a) and Ks. versus the scaled mutation target 2LU = emerges for very high genome-wide mutation rates—with
2L(u/ro) for the two values of h, for various carrying h=0.1, the second threshold Ks, exists only for 2LU = 0.8
capacities (with Ks, Ku, 2LU=2L(u/ro) held constant, as K in figure 3c. This is consistent with the fact that purging of
is varied). The threshold Ks,, which relates to population out- recessive mutations in smaller populations (which allows
comes in the zero migration limit, is (by definition) them to evolve significantly lower load than mainland popu-
independent of K in the semi-deterministic setting, as increas- lations) is only effective for very low h; thus, gene flow from