and ecosystems. Among these fossils, there are two world- (including the new zosterophyte Pauthecophyton hezhangensis)
renowned Lagerstatten, the Yanliao and Jehol biotas. Both are systematically described. A review of regional flora data
biotas are famous for their remarkable preservation of a led the authors to recognize at least four biogeographic
great diversity of fossil groups, including salamanders units, the Eastern Yunnan, Sichuan, Cathaysia and newly
(figure 2b), pterosaurs (figure 2c,h), feathered dinosaurs identified Guizhou sub-regions in South China during the
(figure 2d), frogs (figure 2e), early birds (figure 2f,¢), mam- Early Devonian. Also, they postulate that the Guizhou
mals, lizards, insects and plants. The Yanliao biota (166- sub-region might have served as a land bridge between the
159 Ma) is older than the Jehol biota (135-120 Ma), and, Eastern Yunnan and Cathaysia sub-regions to facilitate
despite a superficial similarity, the two biotas differ signifi- plants’ dispersal during this interval.
cantly from each other in community composition. For As the earliest vertebrates that conquered the sky, ptero-
example, pterosaur diversity is quite high in Yanliao biota, saurs presumably played a central role in the terrestrial
but by Jehol time, they have been usurped by early birds. ecosystem of the Mesozoic Era and have long been rep-
Prior to the discovery of feathered dinosaurs from these Lager- resented in fiction as dragon/bat flying animals with a long
statten, there was no direct evidence of feathers occurring in rostrum packed with sharp teeth. Apart from their aerodyna-
dinosaurs, which provided crucial evidence that birds had mically optimized skeletomuscular system, our knowledge
evolved from theropod dinosaurs [36-45]. about their key biological aspects, particularly the digestive
In this issue, we present five research articles that can be system, has been impeded by ambiguous diet-related evi-
grouped within the theme of terrestrial organisms and eco- dence. Jiang ef al. [47] describe two specimens of the
systems. A great diversification of early land plants wukongopterid pterosaurs with associated gastric pellets

occurred in the Devonian, as demonstrated by a series of from the Later Jurassic of China. These gastric pellets


composed of fish bones not only lend further credence to the pattern of the early evolution of hominins across eastern Eur-
