and Shinisaurus (but angulated in Lanthanotus). In S. ensidens, figure S7C) is composed of the basioccipital and exoccipitals,
it is described as angulated [19] but, based on their figure, the with the basioccipital making a slightly larger contribution.
angulation is not prominent and could be an artefact of pres- The exoccipitals do not meet to exclude the basioccipital
ervation. The cranial opening of the endolymphatic duct is from the dorsal margin of the occipital condyle.
not discernible on the CT model owing to the presence of As in Varanus and Lanthanotus, but not Heloderma, the
crystals in that area. lower jaw (figure 1a; electronic supplementary material,

The lateral wall of the ossified braincase (figure 2e) is figure S4A) of Archaeovaranus is characterized by a reduced
mainly made up of the prootic and the otooccipital which articulation between the anterior dentary unit (dentary,
enclose the rounded fenestra ovalis. The fenestra lies splenial and coronoid) and the posterior articular unit
immediately above the dorsoventrally elongate lateral open- (surangular, prearticular and articular). No angular was
ing of the recessus scalae tympani in the otooccipital. The observed. This intramandibular articulation is visible in the
two openings are separate by a well-developed crista ventro- right mandible but is also evidenced by the fact that
lateralis that is horizontally positioned. A long posterior the articular unit of the left lower jaw has separated from
process of the prootic extends onto the otooccipital, but its the dentary unit.
extremity is well separated from the posterolateral end of The dentary, forming roughly half the length of the
the paroccipital process. The prootic bears a moderately mandible, is slender and tapers anteriorly (electronic sup-
developed prootic crest and an undivided facial foramen plementary material, figure S4A). Its lateral surface is
lying just below the prootic crest, posterior to the base of perforated by a line of at least six neurovascular foramina.
the alar process of the prootic. The division of the facial fora- Posteriorly the dentary seems to bifurcate, if the posterior
men is variable in Varanus [47]. A divided facial foramen was notch is natural. The subdental shelf is broad but there is no
reported for L. borneensis [5,48], but an undivided foramen subdental ridge. The meckelian fossa is open ventrally along

was observed in the CT scan of the Kanagawa Museum with its anterior half but is covered posteromedially by the
