6. P sycho log ical a pp roaches for treati ng social In addition to the modalities described above, several other s
. . approaches may have potential as well. For example, social
impairment cognitive interventions such as social skills training helps 3
While NIBS and pharmacotherapy can address aspects of teach individuals how to interact with peers by providing ~
social cognition and behaviour, one of the most powerful explicit instructions and opportunities to develop or improve
tools in psychiatry for addressing specific aspects of social be- social interaction, social performance, and interpersonal skills
haviour is psychotherapy. Psychotherapy itself is inherently and has been effective in schizophrenia and ASD [226-229].
a social phenomenon that depends on the dynamic social Administering social cognitive interventions with recovery-
cognition of both the therapist and patient; group therapy oriented individual and group therapy that targets dysfunc-
further relies on social interaction, altruism, and attachment tional socialization attitudes or behaviours [230-232] could
processes and related brain networks [202-204]. Combination have further benefits than psychotherapy alone. Proof-of-con-
approaches have shown psychotherapy can enhance the effects cept pharmacotherapy-aided approaches have been extended
of pharmacological approaches and vice versa [205]. In fact, psy- to other practices such as mindfulness as well with promising
chotherapy has been shown to specifically improve social results [233-235]. In addition, aerobic exercise has pro-social
function in patients with depression when added to pharmaco- cognitive effects [236] and music therapy activates cortical
logical approaches [206,207]. In social anxiety disorder, regions and improves social cognition and behaviour in chil-
psychotherapy in combination with phenelzine was found to dren with ASD and might be usefully combined with social
be more effective than phenelzine alone [208]. More recently, cognitive interventions [237-240].

the resurgence of psychedelics as therapeutic agents within
psychiatry has also led to studies illustrating the improved

benefits of psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy for social 7. Trans-diagnostic social domains for targeting
anxiety in ASD, PTSD, anxiety, and depression when
