However, as a treatment strategy, exogenously adminis- tively described as a combination of enhanced sociability,
tered oxytocin has yielded mixed results in terms of clinical quickened mental associations, heightened sensitivity to certain
efficacy. Intranasal oxytocin improved emotional recognition sensory stimuli (e.g. sounds or colours), alterations in the
in adults and children with ASD [61-63] and facilitated perception of time and space, and increased appetite for
pro-social behaviour [64] and social responsiveness [65] in sweet and fatty foods [76]. It has also been shown to lead to
children with ASD; however, these results are inconsistent states of anxiety or paranoia [81]. These behavioural effects
66,67]. Oxytocin also enhanced social interaction in patients are broadly consistent with the demonstrated roles of the
with social anxiety disorder, but this effect was specific to a endocannabinoid system.
social setting with explicit priming [68]. Overall, multiple The brain distribution of components of the endocannabi-
clinical studies have been performed, with varying results noid system is consistent with its role in social behaviour.
69], and studies of oxytocin have not yielded any U.S. CB, receptors are highly expressed in associational cortical
Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved treatments regions of the frontal lobe and subcortical structures such as
for the social domain. In fact, oxytocin may be limited as a the amygdala and hippocampus that underpin human socio-
treatment modality as it does not cross the blood-brain emotional functioning [82,83]. However, the action of CB,
barrier well, must be administered intranasally, and has receptors is determined by many factors, including their cellu-
short-lived effects [70-72]. However, given the effects seen lar subtype, activity of nearby interacting proteins such
with oxytocin administration across model systems, there as cannabinoid receptor-interacting protein 1A (CRIP1A),

remains enthusiasm that manipulating the oxytocin system and associations with varying G-coupled protein receptors


[84,85]. CB; receptors are also expressed throughout regions This effect was driven by circuit-selective oxytocin signalling

implicated in reward and addiction, including the central and stands in contrast to global reduction of 2-AG signalling,
and basolateral amygdala, prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippo- which generalized to impair other natural rewards such as