ing—and the groomer uses that as a cue for a good place to not with humans but with their mothers, and again they S
search for parasites—since if this were true all pairs of chim- found no evidence for attempting to establish joint attention ©
panzees should perform this behaviour alike, but the gesture through declarative gesturing: ‘The infant chimpanzee can =
was observed much more frequently between high-ranking follow another's pointing or gaze... [but] does not ‘share’ = 5
males. The most plausible interpretation, then, is that the groo- attention with others’ [21, p. 228]. And this is arguably true =
mee has learned through his grooming interactions with others also for even language-trained apes, who communicate =
a ritualized social strategy for directing attention and behav- almost exclusively for imperative purposes ([22]; the Ss
iour to specific places on his body. Second, Hobaiter et al. examples reported by [23] are basically cases of language- = =:
[14] report four observations of chimpanzees (three involving trained apes recognizing and naming a referent associated = 5!
a single mother-child pair on a single occasion) in which a with the situation, not attempting to share attention declara- >
juvenile extended its hand and arm toward ‘a desirable but tively). Human infants, but not great apes, often simply have =
unobtainable object’. For example, in one observation, a juven- the goal of sharing attention to objects with others. g
ile extended its hand and arm toward a researcher and her The fact that human infants in some cases have as their = &
equipment, glancing at her mom during the process. only goal the sharing of attention with others is especially S
These observations show that great apes can not only clear in the experimental studies of Liszkowski et al. [24,25], &
direct the attention of others to themselves but also to exter- in which infants were not satisfied with adult reactions to ‘S
nal entities. They are further supported by observations of their pointing gesture unless the adult both identified the S
chimpanzees ‘pointing’ for humans to things they want. intended referent and shared their enthusiasm for it. The chil-
Leavens and colleagues (e.g. [15,16]) have investigated chim- dren had as their only goal that the adult share attention and
panzee pointing in some depth and found it to be a flexibly enthusiasm with them. In addition, there are also studies
used gesture sensitive to the attentional state of the human with human infants’ requestive pointing showing that even
recipient. In the typical instance, the ape is interacting with in the case of successful requests (in which they get what
the human through mesh caging, and her pointing behaviour they want), they still want the adult to share attention with
involves thrusting the whole hand in the direction of the them to the intended referent. Thus, if the infant requests a
desired object, with the fingers sticking through the mesh toy horse, and the adult responds by holding up the horse