opportunities, innovation and cumulative culture. Similarly, the main phase, with girls engaging in social interactions
it is likely that young human children interact with more with longer main phases compared to boys. Noticeably,
social partners by the age of 4 years than the average chim- social interactions with longer main phases are less likely to
panzee in a lifetime (though further empirical evidence is show exits and main body phases tend to be longer when
needed). This environmental exposure to diverse partners, more children are involved. In our dataset, about 25% of
and the difficulty of navigating the range of familiarity and play activities involve more than two children, once again
social relationships children might have with those partners, confirming the hyper-sociality of human children in line
would lead to the need to carefully coordinate signalling and with the Interaction Engine Hypothesis.
monitoring each other’s behaviour. The most noticeable finding here is the fact that only two-
When we look at our original predictions concerning the thirds of social interactions have entry and exit signals (66-
development of social interactional abilities in preschoolers, 69%), similar to what was reported for chimpanzees but
we find that in line with our first prediction, 4-year olds noticeably less than what was reported for bonobos (more
engage in cooperative social interactions more often than than 90%). The fact that social relationship does not appear
2-year olds. An increased successful engagement in social to modulate the occurrence of entry or exit signals in young
interactions is in line with the expectation that older children children is also analogous to what observed in chimpanzees
would be able to better predict the behaviour of their and yet different from what was claimed both for bonobos
partners, align their conduct with them and signal their [12] and for human adults [13], although precise quantitative
intention to start or end a joint activity. Cognitive develop- studies in naturalistic settings are lacking for adult humans.
ment probably facilitates the ability of parsing others’ All of the above suggests that at least in young children,
behaviour and coordinating with them. Surprisingly, how- social relationships and the specific motivation to engage in
ever, and in contrast with our second prediction, social social interactions, be it cooperative like in play or competi-
experience and strength of social relationship do not seem tive like in conflict, might not be particularly important for
to play any role in the sequential unfolding of social inter- the process through which social interactions are accom-
actions (both cooperative and competitive ones), in plished. It is also possible that for young children, engaging
particular in terms of affecting the likelihood of having an in play or conversation with peers entails less sharedness of