allows for more ecologically valid scenarios. Promising situ- instance, research in wolves has shown that within feeding
ations for negotiations are contexts in which subjects may contexts related to food sharing, interactions are openly
display diverging goals but intend to avoid a conflict from directed to the conspecific, with flexible uses of multiple
occurring or escalating, such as food-related contexts or vocal and bodily signals. Dale and colleagues [87] conducted
joint actions such as joint travels or playing. Within, for experiments in which captive wolves and dogs faced two
instance, feeding contexts in which two or more individuals different food sharing paradigms: a group carcass feeding
intend to eat the remaining food, two interactional ways situation, in which a carcass was placed in the enclosure
can lead to conflict avoidance: one can either covertly interact and individuals had to negotiate access to the carcass
with the other individual that aims to take the food, by not among each other, and a dyadic set-up, in which food in a
openly communicating that one has the same intentions, plastic bowl was presented to the individuals. Interestingly,
thereby avoiding the conflict but perhaps also failing to in both paradigms, wolves displayed more persistence behav-
achieve one’s goals; or one communicates one’s intention to iour than dogs, with longer interactions among individuals.
eat the food overtly, and, in order to avoid conflict, also Particularly interesting is the fact that in the dyadic set-ups,
overtly communicates one’s affiliative intentions. high dominance rank distance between the individuals
Further promising contexts are consortship scenarios in resulted in peaceful interactions in the wolves, even though
wild chimpanzees. In these scenarios, male chimpanzees lower-ranking wolf individuals displayed significantly more
escort females in oestrous—i.e. sexually receptive females in persistence than low-ranking dogs in the same set-ups. By
the fertile phase of their reproductive cycle—away from the contrast, it is generally assumed that persistence requires
group [85]. Research has shown that chimpanzee males pro- high-level tolerance in the communicative partner and there-
duce an impressive number of different gestures in a flexible fore should be less present in partners with rank difference
manner to communicate their goals to the female in order not [88]. Following from that wolves may display high-level
to be detected by other members of the group, but also to dis- tolerance in communicative interactions. Furthermore,
play a cooperative intention towards the female to prevent wolves seem to be more insisting—and with that, informa-
her from screaming and again, in turn, to prevent detection tive—about their goals than dogs. All these points provide
by other group members [86]. It may be in such a cooperative evidence for the cooperative and open (and with that poten-