the learned controller—increases over time, suggesting that performance, the computational running time of their ©
adding learning directs the evolving population towards method is significantly shorter than BO and is therefore S
morphologies which are more capable of learning. preferable in the context of physical robotics. &
=
(i) Individual learning from scratch (c) Joint optimization with individual and cultural x
The methods just described make use of indirect encodings of learni ng
the controller in order to address the problem of the mis- While the previous section has focused on individual
match between the structure of an inherited controller and learning mechanisms in which an individual robot improves
the potentially modified morphology of a child robot. its controller based only on information gathered during its
Although this elegantly solves the mis-match issue, there own lifetime, we now turn our attention of mechanisms
are some downsides: using an indirect encoding, the fitness which enable the individual learning phase described in the
landscape can be discontinuous—small changes in the geno- TOL [20] to be influenced by cultural information.
type can lead to major changes in the phenotype (and in fact Cultural algorithms were first introduced into the field of
the opposite, i.e. a major genotypic change can lead to a small artificial evolution in 1990s [23,40]. They are based on the
phenotypic change). Several authors have also noted that the notion that in advanced societies, culture accumulates in the
evolution progress using an indirect encoding is slower than form of knowledge-repositories that capture information
that of a direct one (e.g. [36]), something that is of particular acquired by multiple individuals over years of experience.
concern if one is hoping to conduct fitness evaluations in If a new individual has access to this repository of infor-
hardware. To address these concerns, an alternative approach mation, it is able to learn things even when it has not
to individual learning is simply to create a neural controller experienced them directly. Cultural algorithms are prevalent
with a suitable structure (i.e. appropriate inputs and outputs) in the field of swarm-robotics [27,28] in which robots learn to
once the new morphology of a child has been decoded from adapt to complex environments by learning from each other.
the genome, and then learn its weights from scratch using an However, here we restrict the discussion to methods in which
individual learning algorithm that operates directly on a the individual learning process of a single robot as depicted
vector that explicitly represents the controller weights. This on the TOL can be influenced by external repositories of