transition. Why and how different stages function as a major GWAS is a method to detect genetic variants by tagging the
regulator for masting in the same family can be addressed genomic loci underlying phenotypic variation in genetically
by comparative studies of various related species that aim to segregating natural populations. Currently, GWAS is becom-
identify the genetic loci for different gene expression. ing a standard method to detect key genetic variants in trees
Because masting has arisen independently many times in according to the development of sequencing technologies
the Tree of Life but is often similar among closely related [96]. Applying advances in genome-wide transcriptomics
species, [11,87], comparative studies using relatively closely (e.g. DNA microarray and RNAseq) [25,64] is also promising
related species with diversity at the phenotypic and genetic to unravel the underlying mechanism of dynamic environ-
levels will be useful to unravel the genetic basis of masting. mental response of genes and its effect on masting. In fact, a
For this purpose, Fagaceae offers an exceptional array of evol- molecular phenology approach that monitors seasonal recur-
utionary topics for investigations because of its diversity at ring gene expression patterns in natura [19] has been
both at the phenotypic and genetic levels, the availability of increasingly used in non-model organisms [21,25,64,65]. Tran-
completed oak genomes [88], and the fact that genomes are scriptomics can be applied at very high time resolution
an order of magnitude smaller in Fagaceae than in Pinaceae [19,20,97], which can allow precise identification of the
[89,90]. Based on the genome sequence of 250 Quercus species environmental cues that trigger masting. Another important
that were mapped to the chromosome-level Q. rober genome, element along with low-cost genetic data is the application of
the genomic architecture of population differentiation and quantitative and integrative mathematical models to resolve
speciation have been explored in oaks [91]. These resources the mechanisms driving complex interlinked systems, like

can be used to study the genetic basis of masting. As genetic the gene network controlling flower initiation [64,98].


We propose that species in the Fagaceae will be good tar- libraries and reference genomes [88,101]. Moreover, a new | 8 |

gets to explore the genetic basis of masting. Fagaceae is genome project for Lithocarpus is on-going. With these