(a) The general pattern: male warriors in intergroup

conflict to limited food resources [101]. Food defensibility, but not
We found that male bias in intergroup conflicts was the modal sexual dimorphism, further affected collective movement in
pattern across social mammals, accounting for phylogeny and that male-biased leadership was less likely when food is defend-
several covariates. This pattern seems to reflect the differen- able. Our analysis also uncovered associations between sex bias
tial costs and benefits of participation developed in the across the two contexts of collective action. Specifically, male-
introduction, e.g. the possibility for males to gain mating biased participation in intergroup conflict was less likely and
opportunities (with in-group or out-group females) or defend- female-biased participation more likely (though with much
ing in-group females, outweighing whatever resource benefits greater uncertainty) in species with female leadership during
females may gain, or the costs of participation being substan- collective movement.
tially higher for females. This general pattern is typified In summary, female leadership in movements was the
by some of the best-studied non-human primates such as chim- norm and is consistent with female philopatry and the fact
panzees (Pan troglodytes) [85,86] and mountain gorillas (Gorilla that female fitness is limited by access to food. Female leader-
gorilla gorilla) [87-90] in which males are considerably larger ship in the movement context also seems to constrain sex-
than females and, at least in the case of gorillas, the resources biased participation in intergroup conflict, making male
that males compete over (harems of females) are much more bias less and female bias more likely. We discuss exceptions
defensible than the resources females compete over (foliage). to the general patterns in the next section by focusing on
However, it is important to note that even for these species those species with female bias during intergroup conflicts.

there is some evidence for female participation in intergroup
conflicts; for instance, female gorillas direct aggression towards

solitary males to avoid takeovers and the subsequent risk of (0) Lessons from exceptions to the rule: the female
