that males compete over (harems of females) are much more bias less and female bias more likely. We discuss exceptions
defensible than the resources females compete over (foliage). to the general patterns in the next section by focusing on
However, it is important to note that even for these species those species with female bias during intergroup conflicts.

there is some evidence for female participation in intergroup
conflicts; for instance, female gorillas direct aggression towards

solitary males to avoid takeovers and the subsequent risk of (0) Lessons from exceptions to the rule: the female

infanticide [87]. More generally, sexual dimorphism in our warriors

study failed to predict male bias in intergroup conflicts. In A handful of species deviate from the modal pattern of male-
fact, adult males and females are similarly sized in many biased participation in intergroup conflict which could shed
species with male bias in intergroup conflict, including meer- additional light on the factors contributing to sex differences
kats (Suricata suricatta) [91,92], Geoffroy’s spider monkeys in this context. These ‘female warriors’ span four biological
(Ateles geoffroyi) [61], Zanzibar red colobus monkeys (Piliocolo- orders, including carnivorans and primates, suggesting
bus kirkii) [93], and Thomas’s langurs (Presbytis thomasi) [94]. independent evolutionary origins (see figure 3 for details).

Our analyses also suggest that food defensibility plays a Whereas factors such as direct benefits, female dominance,


Figure 3. Female warriors among social mammals include a handful of species for which females participate in intergroup conflicts more often than do males, such
as in the (b) spotted hyena, (c) ringtailed lemur, (d) golden snub-nosed monkey, (e) blue monkey and (f) black-and-white ruffed lemur. The (a) banded mongoose
is also of particular note; male warriors participate in intergroup conflicts more often than females, but female banded mongooses instigate most intergroup conflicts
and, therefore, disproportionally influence the initial group decision to engage in this form of collective action. Photos by Axel Tschentscher, Jack Grady and Charles