calculated over 100 000 time points after 150 000 of evolution). (b) Mean + s.d. of the variance—covariance matrix evaluated for the same simulated population
as (a). In contrast to figure 3g, the covariance among helping (h) and belligerence (a) is now significantly different from zero and negative. And while this covari-
ance may seem small, the correlation among belligerence (a) and helping (h) is large (as shown in a). (Online version in colour.)

In particular, selection now favours a negative association to such nonlinear effects, with some individuals with a
between helping with offensive and defensive bravery. Indi- strong preference for raiding and investing resources into
vidual-based stochastic simulations confirm this and further offense, and others favouring not to raid and investing no
highlight the maintenance of a negative association among resources into offense. We test and discuss the robustness of
belligerence and helping (figure 5). Specifically, the Hawk this polymorphism further in our electronic supplementary
morph is now also characterized by little within-group help- material, §5, where in particular we investigate the effects
ing (morph on the top left of figure 5a) and the Dove morph of various contest functions (via g(y)), group decision
by high levels of helping (morph on the bottom right of figure making (via a(a)) and benefit functions (via B(y)). We find
5a). In fact, all other traits are now negatively associated with that in all examined cases, Hawks and Doves are still
helping (last column of figure 5b). This is due to the extra expected to emerge as in our baseline model.

individual costs suffered by individuals that combine helping
with any form of bravery. Since Hawks are characterized by
high levels of bravery, they evolve lower helping because of

these extra costs. Doves, meanwhile, can continue to invest 4. Discussion

resources in helping since they invest little or no resources Our results indicate that selection can readily lead to the

into bravery. emergence of a social polymorphism where two highly
These results show how complementarity and antagon- differentiated morphs relevant to warfare eventually coexist: