of management and elimination [13]. This approach sits
within the broader world of the management and elimination
of parasites in agricultural systems, pets and the human


friends hypothesis’ to apply. Consequently, microbes may play has the potential to play a significant role in structuring

a key role in the development, maintenance and function of the host communities and thus the broader health of the pollina-
immune system of insect pollinators and thus have a positive tor community. What evidence is there that such structuring
impact on individual health [27]. A final aspect of the ‘old might be taking place? In a multi-site, two-year study,
friends hypothesis’ argues that parasites that cause chronic common bumblebee species in alpine meadows had consist-
infections could have evolved a regulatory relationship with ently higher parasite richness and load than rare species [39],
the immune system. An analogy for this in insect pollinators despite the fact that these parasites are generalists that can
emerges from the concept of immune priming. In bumblebees, either directly attack or spread between multiple host species
an initial exposure to a low dose of a bacterial pathogen gave [3740-42]. Similar patterns were found in a single-year study
specific protection against secondary exposure [30]. Similar, in North America, where common species of bumblebee were
but perhaps less specific, effects could result in prior exposure more parasitized by a trypanosome parasite and conopid fly
to a low-virulence but abundant pathogen providing protection parasitoids than were their rarer congeners [43]. These pat- ==
against subsequent exposure to a high- virulence pathogen that terns in parasite richness and load suggest that parasites =
interacts similarly with the immune system. Consequently, such could suppress common pollinator species and, by extension, Ss
low-virulence pathogens could actually confer health benefits enable rare species to maintain their populations as a result of = =
on individual insect pollinators, depending upon the relative reduced competition, resulting in a more diverse and thus = 5!
prevalence and thus opportunities to encounter parasites healthier pollinator community. Evidence for such dynamics = &
across a range of virulence levels. Whether such interactions was found in a 39-year dataset of six species of cuckoo bum- =
exist in wild insect pollinators deserves investigation. Overall, blebees (Bombus subgenus Psythirus) and their bumblebee — &