viding it is not too viscous [40], and bees learn floral cues and segregation in flower visitation patterns, reducing the overlap
spatial information better when the sugar content is higher in flower contacts between pollinating insects, and thus
(e.g. [41-43]). Nectar also contains amino acids and other potentially lowering the risk of contamination of food and
phytochemicals, such as caffeine or nicotine, that have been flower surfaces, and of pathogen transmission and infection.

shown to alter bees’ flower visitation preferences and ability
to learn floral cues [44-47].

For pollen, the factors driving flower visitation prefer- ste gs sap:
ences are less well understood (reviewed by [21]), owing 4, Flower visitation patterns within a patch

both to the nutritional complexity of pollen as a floral Aside from the nutritional suitability of food rewards offered by
reward and the fact that, unlike nectar, pollen is not actively flowers, there are many additional factors that affect a bee’s
ingested at the flower during pollen collection, raising decision to land on a particular flower. These can be broadly
questions about the mechanism(s) of reward evaluation. divided into (i) sensory cues arising from the display of the
Individual bees concentrate their effort on a smaller selection flower and (ii) handling cues related to flower morphology.
of plant species when collecting pollen, compared to nectar Many pollinators exhibit ‘flower constancy’ within a foraging
foraging. There is evidence that foraging bees appear bout, visiting flowers of the same species or limited range of
to favour plants providing pollen with high protein: lipid species and ignoring others within the same patch, even if
ratios [48] and that macronutrient ratio preferences vary they provide approximately equal food rewards [53]. Both sen-
according to bee species [49,50]. However, the majority sory and handling cues contribute to flower constancy, which is
of the work on bees’ individual pollen foraging preferen- thought to maximize foraging efficiency by minimizing the
ces has been conducted in social bees, which rely on a large handling and cognitive costs associated with switching between
foraging workforce to ensure that a suitable range of nutri- different flower morphologies and by reducing the cost of infor-
ents is secured by the colony (reviewed by [25]). Solitary mation acquisition [54-58]. Flower constancy, or majoring and