to be recognized not just as negative influences on the physio- between parasites and multiple hosts is complex and
logical and reproductive health of individuals and colonies but varied, and so patterns of virulence across multiple pollinator
also positive influences on the health of pollinator commu- species cannot easily be predicted (e.g. [49]). Consequently,
nities. Thus, a healthy parasite community is likely a sign of further empirical studies of virulence across a_ broader
a healthy pollinator community [3]. range of host species are needed to address this.
This perspective obviously depends upon the biology of An important caveat to the discussion above is that we
the system. Wild insect pollinators support a natural parasite still have a severe knowledge gap on the actual impact of
community, which has been best described in bumblebees parasites on wild pollinators. Laboratory studies have
[9,36]. Key features of this community are that it is species found significant impacts on colony- [46,50-52] and popu-
rich, taxonomically rich (meaning that it encompasses para- lation-level health [50], but how these translate into real
sites from viruses to trypanosomes to nematode worms to impacts in the field remains unknown, apart from the case
parasitoids and cuckoo bees) and largely made up of general- of cuckoo bees described above. However, given the preva-
ist parasites that can infect multiple host species [9,36]. In fact, lence of parasites such as C. bombi [47,53-59] and S. bombi
recent work has shown that at least some of these parasites [48] that are known to have dramatic impacts on host species
have an even broader host range, being capable of infecting [47,48,50], it seems likely that they are having at least some

solitary bees (e.g. [37,38]). As such, this parasite community impact on their host populations in the wild.


Along with their potential role in structuring pollinator has to be balanced against the need to provide this complex | 4 |

communities, and as emphasized in a series of seminal pub- nutrition. In addition, if parasites are acting to reduce compe-
lications, parasites are a natural part of food webs, playing tition from numerically dominant insect pollinators and thus
important roles as consumers of and redistributors of bio- enabling a richer pollinator community (as discussed above),
mass and nutrients, and drivers of stability (e.g. [60,61]). then the provision of natural pharmaceuticals should be tar-