3. Perceiving laughter across cultures reporting that a pair was friends when they were women
If laughter sounds fundamentally similar across different (ie. high false alarms). But the individual laughs making
languages and cultures, then we should expect it to be up the female pairs were also judged as sounding relatively


more aroused, and with more positive valence, than individ- condition were in fact volitional. The laughter was defined

ual laughs from other dyad types. Finally, across all cultures, based on having occurred between friends in conversation,
pairs of female friends were judged to have liked each other but many laughs between familiar speakers (in fact, perhaps
more. Together, these results speak to (i) the widespread a majority) are generated by the speech production system
importance of speaker affect in how laughter manifests (making them volitional), and serve a variety of pragmatic
itself in socially dependent ways, and (ii) how rapidly and procedural functions. Most so-called ‘fake’ laughs are
people around the world can make accurate, socially relevant probably not deceptive, and in fact serve as reliable signals
judgements, in this case within 1 s. for a variety of discourse functions. But they are not emotion-

A follow-up cross-cultural study examined whether ally triggered in the same way as spontaneous laughs. By this
listeners across a similarly diverse (and overlapping) set of logic, small-scale participants were likely more accurate over-

21 societies could distinguish between spontaneous and all. In any case, the ease with which individuals worldwide

volitional laughter [42]. For this work, and the study from were able to engage in the task and understand what was =
which the stimuli were created [13], spontaneous (real) being asked of them, despite many having no experience >
laughter was defined as conversational laughter obtained with social science research, speaks to the universal nature of Ss
between familiar speakers, and all exemplars were between laughter—people everywhere get it. =
female friends. Volitional (fake) laughter was defined as Based on the idea that spontaneous and volitional laugh- 5