In order to identify the genetic variants underlying wing pat- involved in wing patterning.
tern variation in H. numata, we quantified these patterns with Some of the loci captured by H. numata inversions are
CPM, a method that produces comprehensive and ‘naive’ associated with wing pattern variation in H. numata specimens
descriptors of colour pattern variation. This method offers with and without inversions, and in other species. This sup-
the advantage of handling characters that cannot be defined ports the hypothesis that P inversions have evolved because,
easily by human observers or using landmarks, such charac- via their effect of suppressing recombination, they maintain
ters involving shape changes or colour patch translation. beneficial combinations of wing pattern alleles at these loci,
CPM is therefore powerful for describing multi-dimensional forming good mimetic forms. The P, inversion is found in H.
traits such as wing patterns. However, it requires the use pardalinus [31] and recent studies have found inversions at a
of multivariate association methods to identify the genetic similar location, but with distinct breakpoints, in two other
variants involved in these multi-dimensional character clades, respectively in H. sara, H. demeter, H. hecalesia and H. tel-
changes. Performing genome-wide multivariate association esiphe [30], and in a very distant swallowtail butterfly, Papilio
studies, we found multiple genomic regions associated with clytia [54]. The fact that multiple species have independently
different features of wing pattern variation within the super- evolved inversions encompassing an orthologous region con-
gene interval. This observation was confirmed by univariate taining multiple wing pattern loci constitutes evidence that
association analyses taking into account dominance effect those chromosomal rearrangements have established because
and population stratification. This lends support to the of their similar effect on the maintenance of coadaptation
long-standing hypothesis that the supergene P coordinates among loci in this region.
the variation of multiple, independent sites each associated Genetic and phenotypic analyses, however, also suggest
with specific elements of wing pattern. Our results therefore that some variations have evolved after the formation of
support the ‘supergene’ or ‘beads-on-a-string’ model inversions in H. numata. Indeed, certain phenotypes and gen-
[12,13,49] and are generally inconsistent with the alternative etic variants are only observed in a subset of the mimetic
hypothesis that the supergene could involve a single master forms associated with the Hn123 rearrangement (figure 1b;
gene with pleiotropic effects [50]. electronic supplementary material, figure S7). For instance,
Since our findings are based on genotype-phenotype cor- forms aurora, timaeus and tarapotensis are all associated with