ters directly, but often more useful clusters can be achieved by parameter, which was selected on the basis of a user survey = =
linking samples that share some proportion of their gene where participants were asked to rate how clustered data &
labels [11,12]. Distance-based models use pairwise genetic dis- appeared to be. The authors showed that this scale factor
tances between all samples as input [13] and sometimes also can be chosen to exactly replicate t-SNE, or alternatively
apply similar approaches of linking similar samples [14]. can be tuned to effectively increase the ‘repulsion’ between

One challenge with applying any of these methods is points, targeting distinct clusters forming in the output
that many species do not have good quality schemes to embedding, which are easier to visualize and interpret.
label input genomes, or suffer from poor-quality or missing In this paper, we extend the SCE method to use a variety
metadata. This makes unsupervised methods of particular of genomic data modalities as input, improve its performance
interest when exploring data [15]. A further challenge on large datasets and add a range of output visualizations.
arises from the size of the data we wish to process. On Our method allows users to rapidly gain insights into struc-
top of the fact that we wish to process a large number of ture present in very large genome datasets, which we
individual genomes, genomic datasets typically have a show corresponds well with model-based genetic clustering
very large number of features; for example when using algorithms. We implemented our method as a piece of
SNPs or k-mers to represent sequence variation, each open-source software called mandrake (https://github.
sample may typically have 10°-10° such markers. These com/johnlees/mandrake) and as a static web application
markers are frequently used to calculate genetic distances (https: //gtonkinhill.github.io/mandrake-web).

between samples, the number of which grows as the
number of samples squared, such that one million samples

will have of the order of 10'! distances between them. 2. Methods
Such high dimensionality of population genomic data is
beyond the capability of most analysis methods available (a) Calculating between-sample distances from genome