genes in this family are under pressure to change within indi- ence is the null model used: either a single model in which = =>
vidual healthy gut microbiomes. However, relying on gene all mutations found are scattered randomly across the 5
function annotations currently remains challenging owing genome or a separate null model for each subject. Surpris- © =
to the large number of unannotated or loosely annotated ingly, higher enrichments for non-synonymous mutations =
microbial genes; literature searches can often reveal func- have been found when performing analyses at the within- — __
tional roles not captured by ontologies [85]. An alternative individual level as compared with the across-individual =
signal that can provide confidence in the adaptive nature of level. In the previously mentioned study of B. fragilis evol- 5!
observed mutations is the location of mutations within a ution in 12 healthy human gut microbiomes, 16 genes were =
given gene. For example, in a study of Burkholderia dolosa identified to be mutated at least twice within one or more =
evolution during long-term infection of patients with CE, 12 subjects, compared to just five expected under a neutral &
of 17 mutations within the gene fixL fall within two small model (a density threshold was used to exclude excessively
domains of this oxygen-dependent response regulator [19]. long genes) [8]. When the same set of mutations was con- S
The clustering of these mutations, and the fact that none of sidered for across-individual PE, eight genes fell below the ~~
the mutations created premature stop codons, provided con- threshold for PE while only two additional genes were impli- =
fidence that B. dolosa is under pressure to tweak, but not cated in PE. Interestingly, these two new genes found in the 5S
break, this response regulator in vivo [86]. across-person analysis had a lower py than expected from a

While searches for parallel adaptive evolution have neutral model (though not significantly). Studies of other bac-
traditionally considered single-nucleotide variants, larger geno- terial species have also found similar strength of within-
mic changes can also drive adaptive evolution, e.g. the gain of a individual PE scans [53,93], with less sensitivity at the
mobile element or deletion of a gene [87,88]. However, the across-host level [8,26,94].
adaptive nature of a given mobile element change can be Why should an enrichment of mutations be observed
more difficult to identify from a genome-wide analysis because from within-person analyses but not when the same data is
neutral expectations of the number of changes are difficult to aggregated across subjects? One possibility may be that selec-
model (as such changes are not clocklike) and there is no tive forces are person specific. In the study of B. fragilis, the