embryo embryonic
sac ental ‘issue
extra- 1
ventral I embryonic ventral
extra- tissue extra-
embryonic embryonic
Principapillatus tissue Peripatopsis Peripatopsis s : sy seue,
cipapins parops! Parops Peripatoides novaezealandiae
hitoyensis sedgwicki moseleyi

Figure 2. Diversity of developmental modes and extra-embryonic tissue modifications in Onychophora. (A) World map showing geographical distribution of types of
teproductive modes. Hatched lines demarcate circumequatorial Peripatidae from southerly distributed Peripatopsidae. Note that lecithotrophic viviparity might be in
fact combined matrotrophic/lecithotrophic viviparity, which has only been demonstrated in Fuperipatoides rowelli [36]. Modified from [9,37]. (B) Diagrams illustrating
embryos of different species displaying distinct reproductive modes and extra-embryonic tissue modifications. Germ band and extra-embryonic tissues are depicted in
grey and dark blue, respectively. Note that the embryo of Principapillatus hitoyensis forms a physical connection to the maternal uterine wall and is surrounded by an
embryo sac of unresolved origin (light yellow). Note also that the dorsal extra-embryonic tissue is modified into a trophic organ in the matrotrophic species Peri-
patopsis sedgwicki and Peripatopsis moseleyi, but not in Peripatopsis capensis. Diagrams modified from [38] (Principapillatus hitoyensis), [39] (Peripatopsis sedgwicki,
Peripatopsis capensis and Peripatopsis moseleyi), [40] (E. rowelli) and [5] (Peripatoides novaezealandiae).

strategies can be further classified into placentotrophic, surrounded by embryonic envelopes that persist until birth
lecithotrophic, matrotrophic and combined lecithotrophic/ (reviewed in [9]). While the deposited eggs of oviparous
matrotrophic viviparity (figure 2A,B; reviewed in [9]). This onychophorans contain embryos of early developmental
diversity is reflected by various modifications of dorsal and stages, embryonic development of lecithotrophic viviparous
ventral extra-embryonic tissues. species takes place entirely within the uterus of the mother
