migrants of at least six more taxa to coloured targets (table 1).


better representation of saturation effects at high G/B-values, have been demonstrated on several occasions. For instance, | 9 |

the split regression model is mathematically simpler. Hyalopterus pruni was more strongly attracted to yellow when

The second modelling approach was entirely driven by the colour was unsaturated, i.e. when mixed with white lead
reflectance data, i.e. did not make use of input from physiologi- whereas this was not the case with Aphis fabae [19]. According
cal sensitivity functions; thus, this entirely empirical approach to [31], Rhopalosiphum padi was more attracted to green than to
was blind to physiological knowledge and may therefore be yellow, whereas Sitobion avenae, Rhopalosiphum maidis and Schi-
used to test if the assumptions on physiological sensitivity zaphis graminum preferred yellow over green. At present it is
functions in aphids are reasonable. In fact, the PLSR approach difficult to explain the discrepancy between our results and
showed a remarkable congruence with the physiological data previous findings. However, both cited studies include grass
on peak sensitivities. For both years, the maximum regression feeding aphid species, which, in our investigation were not
coefficient (at 525 and 530 nm, in experiments 1 and 2, respect- numerous enough for rigorous inter-species comparisons.
ively, figure 5) was observed very close to or on the same This is of particular relevance since grass-feeding herbivores
wavelength as the electrophysiologically determined values, have already been hypothesized as a group that is distinct in
namely 530 nm for M. persicae [15] and 520-530 nm for B. bras- the response to colours [32]. More targeted laboratory studies Ss
sicae [16], two aphid species that dominated the 2007 catch that do not depend on the aphid fauna landing in traps will = =
(table 1). Further, the PLSR confirms the antagonistic nature be needed to elucidate this question. =
of blue reflectance for the response of aphids, since coefficients Regarding seasonal differences in aphid responses to col- = &
in this spectral region are negative (figure 5). ours, the comparison of autumn catch [18] and spring catch =

(this study, experiment 1) on the same site with almost identical = &