similar results were obtained in the nocturnal carpenter bee even fewer than this for the darker targets. As we discussed
Xylocopa tranquebarica [12]. These bees are able to use colour earlier, because the arrival of photons is random, the SNR is
cues in the context of homing. the square root of the photon catch—between 1 and 4 for
Ina further experiment—to test for the role of the UV recep- Deilephila in starlight. Such low values would certainly be
tor in colour vision—Kelber et al. [10] discovered that Deilephila insufficient for Deilephila to discriminate colours in starlight.
could discriminate between two white targets, one that Indeed, the photon catches in each of the three spectral
absorbed UV light and one that reflected it. Even though classes of photoreceptors resulting from the training colour
these two white targets looked identical to a human observer, and grey shade 6 are very similar (figure 6c), meaning that
the moth exclusively chose the learned colour (in this case Deilephila should not be able to tell these two targets apart.
the UV-absorbing target at a luminance of 0.01 cd m7). This But Deilephila clearly can tell them apart (figure 62), implying
result strongly supports the idea that Deilphila possesses tri- that spatial and/or temporal summation is being used to
chromatic colour vision (i.e. colour vision involving all three boost the SNR and allow colour vision in starlight (as has
spectral classes of photoreceptors). The fact that other hawk- been shown for motion vision [76]).
moths studied also have three photoreceptor classes (e.g. Since many species of hawk moths are crepuscular, they
[83]) suggest that nocturnal trichromatic colour vision is experience significant fluctuations in irradiance spectrum as
likely to be widespread within this group of insects. the sun rises and sets (figure 2a). Such substantial changes in
Remarkably, the ability of Deilephila to discriminate colour the illumination, and the accompanying changes in the spectrum
in starlight occurs when its UV-, blue- and green-sensitive of light reflected from objects in the visual scene, can potentially

photoreceptors are absorbing extremely low numbers of alter an animal's perception of object colour. However, as we


(a)

wavelength (nm)