social complexity. Evolutionary models also suggested that sequence, we found information on visual signals for only ten
changes in social organization have influenced the evolution lemur species. Among nocturnal species, the solitary grey
of the number of olfactory sources. Moreover, independent of mouse lemurs (Microcebus murinus) and pair-living redtailed
whether olfactory signals are based on saliva, faeces or gland- and Sahamalaza sportive lemurs (Lepilemur ruficaudatus and
ular secretions, they appear to offer rich sources of L. sahamalenzis, respectively) exhibit a feint-to-cuff gesture
information. Urine marking, for example, has been suggested (figure 1b), where individuals rapidly lift the hand, as if to
to be an ancestral behaviour related to a nocturnal, solitary cuff a partner, and the sportive lemurs additionally show a
lifestyle, whereas the various forms of glandular marking branch-shaking display [103,104]. Cathemeral and diurnal
evolved in parallel, and represent derived states [100]. Noc- group-living lemurs exhibit 3-22 visual displays, with the
turnal lemurs also evolved fewer scent glands than largest number of visual signals reported in ring-tailed
cathemeral or diurnal lemurs (electronic supplementary lemurs [74].
material, table $2). Urine consists of fewer (2-13) olfactorily Visual signals are mainly manual or bodily gestures,
relevant compounds, in comparison to glandular secretions, whereas facial expressions are rare. This fact might be due
which consist of up to 300 compounds [100,101]. Deposition to morphological constraints because lemurs have less well
of urine marks is also rather discrete and might be designed diversified facial muscles involved in coordination of facial
for delayed olfactory detection [100]. Although some glandu- expression than anthropoid primates [105,106]. Facial
lar markings may also be designed for delayed detection, expressions in lemurs mainly consist of mouth-displays,
they are often accompanied by conspicuous body postures, such as the open-mouth display that is produced during
constituting a multimodal signal, facilitating rapid visual play in ring-tailed lemurs, Coquerel’s and Verreaux’s sifakas
detection, olfactory inspection or even countermarking by (Propithecus coquereli, P. verreauxi; figure 1f) [107,108]. Yawn-
group members [2,101,102]. Hence, with the transition to a ing is associated with a sleep-wake cycle in ring-tailed
diurnal and more gregarious lifestyle, (additional) glandular lemurs and Verreaux’s sifakas, but also with anxiety, for
secretions might have evolved to facilitate intra- but also example, after predatory attacks [109] or undecided behav-
inter-group communication [100], allowing generally more iour during agonistic interactions in ring-tailed lemurs [74].
complex communicative strategies. A grimace or facial grin serves as a submissive signal in