lateral and medial/insula areas, while non-primate mammals conscious, including mammals, lower vertebrates and invert-
mainly possess the medial/insula areas [2,96,121]. This ana- ebrates, and if so how, is quite contentious. The issues are far
tomical situation may limit the kinds of conscious more complex than trying to find evolutionary roots of beha-
emotional states each can assemble relative to humans [96], viours. We can directly measure behaviour in present-day
as elaborated later. organisms to obtain clues about what kinds of behaviours may

The reason that amygdala survival circuits are so often have been present in their early representatives, and in the
associated with fear is because of their prominent role in con- common ancestors they share with other organisms, in much

trolling defensive responses when humans or other animals the same as we do with brain structures. Consciousness,


though, is more challenging. Whether even our closest primate indisputable facts that are presumed to be so obvious that no

relatives are conscious is debated [122,123]. The problem is reasonable person could question them. And those who
that behaviour and physiology have limits as measures of con- show interpretative restraint are denigrated as ‘deniers’ [128],
sciousness [124], especially when only non-verbal behaviour is a term that has a variety of negative connotations in contem-
available, as discussed further below. porary culture, and that is not suitable in a scientific debate.
In the late nineteenth century, animal psychology tried Similar issues exist when evaluating consciousness in pre-
to use intelligent and emotional behaviour as marks of verbal children. Just because an infant human, or a rat, bird,
consciousness [86]. This, in part, is what led to behaviourism. lamprey, amphioxus or octopus, behaves to an environmental
With the behaviourists gone, some animal psychologists have stimulus in a way that an adult human might when they are
revived such efforts. While the behaviourists certainly went conscious of a similar kind of stimulus does not necessarily = >
too far, they were quite effective, if too dogmatic, in mana- mean that the child or animal is having a conscious experi- 5
ging the language of psychology. And with them gone, we ence, a mental state, similar to what the adult human has. © =