kind of primitive mental state rather than creature conscious. while autonoetic consciousness is about reflective awareness
But what would this be? Perhaps he meant a form of sensory of one’s self over time in such episodes. Episodic-like
sentience, which Lacalli proposed may have even existed in memory, in short, takes researchers all the way to the finish
the invertebrate chordate ancestors of vertebrates [70,71]. I line of consciousness. This is a significant achievement,
will build on a partition offered by Endel Tulving [135] that I despite not being able to cross the line.
have used in recent publications [2,94,96-98]. It may be able Similarly, semantic memory has been well researched in
to account for what Merker might have had in mind, but in primates and other mammals. For example, studies of object
relation to mental state consciousness. recognition in relation to instrumental-goal directed beha-

Tulving distinguished between three forms of mental viours test what animals cognitively know factually and
state consciousness in humans (table 1). These are autonoetic conceptually [119,143-146]. Procedural memory has also
(explicit self-awareness of one’s existence over time), noetic been extensively studied in primates and mammals
(explicit awareness of facts and concepts about the world or [26,119,147]. As with episodic memory, studies of semantic

one’s self) and anoetic (implicit awareness of the world) and procedural memory tell us about the foundation of


noetic and anoetic awareness, but do not demonstrate that the of their existence. However, extension to consciousness | 10 |

awareness itself exists. remains hypothetical.

Tulving’s partitions thus offer a top-down (reverse engin- Can we take these ideas to lower vertebrates? An entry
eering) approach that starts with human consciousness, as point for this may be the suggestion by Shepherd and others
opposed to bottom-up (forward engineering) evolutionary that, in mammals, olfactory paleocortex, via connections with
approaches to animal consciousness that start in the distant medial wall cortical areas, especially orbitofrontal cortex,