[9-11]. Courtship rituals often involve intense energetic dis- or submission. The same study found that crested macaque
plays and combinations of multiple signal modalities (e.g. bared-teeth displays were more variable in affiliative contexts
widowbirds [12], sage grouse [13]) and male-male compe- than in play, submission and copulation contexts. One study of
tition often involves intense displays (e.g. red deer roars [14]). play in gorillas that did not use FACS methodology or measure
Insum, there is a great deal of evidence for increased inten- intensity of single movements found that more intense play
sity and specificity of communicative signals that are used (1) bouts involved higher rates of lip withdrawal [30], which
for more immediately important functions, such as mating would appear to tally with our expectation of more intense sig-
and survival and (2) in conditions that are susceptible to uncer- nals in situations where ambiguity of signals would be costly.
tainty and high costs of failure. However, non-human primates Wider research has concentrated on quantifying the variability
can also use signals flexibly; for example, great apes with small of facial communication systems by building repertoires of
vocal repertoires use calls in a variety of contexts, with out- AUs for entire species (e.g. [20,22]), rather than examining in
comes less tightly tied to the signals themselves but rather to high temporal resolution the variability of movements involved
the context, in terms of both the immediate behaviour accom- in single interactions. With FACS, variability of movements can
panying the signal and the pre-existing relationship between be quantified in various ways, including the repertoire of AUs
the signaller and receiver [15]. In this example, it could be (e.g. [20]), the diversity of AUs produced (e.g. [22]), the repertoire
argued that the signal is under less constraint because the of AU combinations (e.g. [22]) and the rate of change of AU com-
pre-existing relationship between the two individuals and the bination (e.g. [17,28]). Each of these measures may give subtly
cognitive ability of each individual are strong enough for mis- different insights into the facial behaviour of the subject. Since
understandings to be less likely (and potentially less costly). crested macaques also produce dynamic ritualized facial dis-
By contrast to the many studies of animal vocalizations, facial plays [19], such as lipsmacking [31], differences in the rates of
behaviour of non-human primates has attracted relatively little these will also illustrate the variability of facial movements.
attention. Facial movements are prominent in many social inter- In this study we investigated whether general characteristics
actions of non-human primates, and descriptive work has of crested macaque facial movements are affected by (i) the be-
identified some common facial configurations that persist haviour exhibited in the present social interaction and (ii) the
across many species (e.g. [16]). However, while this represen- long-term social relationship history of the animals involved.