mimics more closely the human paradigm of ischaemia and
reperfusion than permanent ligation models.

Consistent with previous studies [43] characterizing the ©
sarcolemma basement membrane, we noted that t-tubules oS
imaged by SBF-SEM were lined by an inner dark continuous
line representing the basement membrane (figure 4e). This
feature was used to distinguish between vacuoles formed
by potentially enlarged SR or burst mitochondria and

(b) Organization ana morphology of t-tubules in ‘proper’ fragments which are the remnants of t-tubules. In

healthy sheep fact, all fragments were characterized by an inner basement
In healthy sheep, the t-tubules are highly organized and membrane unequivocally proving their t-tubule origin
arranged regularly along z-lines. In transverse section, (figure 4f). IR induces osmotic imbalance which may contrib-
t-tubules demonstrated a centripetal spoke-like arrangement, ute to the fragmentation of t-tubules as it could induce
in agreement with previous work on human [3] and changes in the expression of key genes associated with t-
sheep [33] cardiac myocytes. Previous studies have reported tubule formation and maintenance including Junctophilin 2
longitudinal tubules in control cardiac myocytes [3,4], QPH2), Caveolin 3 (CAV3) and Bridging Integrator 1 (BIN1)
which were also observed in our nanoscale 3D recon- [19,44,45]. Sustained t-tubule fragmentation and recycling
structions, where t-tubules cross over to adjacent z-lines; could also be a factor leading to t-tubule depletion.
however, it was clear that in general, t-tubules travel in the In the border region, patchy depletion of t-tubules was also
transverse direction. As reported in previous sheep [33] and noted. This is consistent with previous studies on t-tubules loss
pig [34] studies, twin t-tubules were found also in this in cardiac failure [11,34,46,47]. Surprisingly, Ohler et al. [13]
study and they may play a role in efficient action potential found no changes in the tubular network in human cardiomyo-