they discuss the dialectical misattunement hypothesis, show- acterizing all abstract concepts, suggesting both that it is
ing how psychopathology can be seen as a disorder related essential to analyse differences across their subkinds and that
to social interaction, ie. a mismatch of interpersonal expec- multiple dimensions concur in their representation.
tations, which can lead to a disruption of communication In her paper, Deroy [61] deals with a specific concept, i.e.
and induce social isolation. In this framework, they highlight olfaction. Olfaction concepts are intriguing because they are
how mental health is inextricably connected with social at the border between abstract and concrete concepts and
interaction and contend that this link should be recognized in vary in the amount of sensory experience. She outlines the
the clinical area, leading to the development of forms of puzzle research on olfaction deals with: abstract terms refer-
inter-personalized psychiatry. ring to olfaction are only a few, and most languages focus
The third section, ‘Concepts and interaction with ourselves’, instead on the source of the smell (e.g. people use ‘the
focuses on how social interaction influences inner experiences smell of lemon’ instead of ‘acrid’ or ‘fruity’). She contends
and how we entertain a dialogue and interact with ourselves. that the puzzle should be reversed; given the characteristics
The first part deals with grounding concepts in multimodal of olfaction and the fact that commonalities between smells
sensorimotor experiences and inner experiences. Indeed, we are not obvious, it is surprising that abstract terms are so

can interact with ourselves in various ways: developing the many in this domain. She discusses two possible reasons


for the extensive use of abstract concepts in this domain, the influence of linguistic labels on reasoning, the structure of the

addressing their potential communicative and social benefits. symbol system, inner speech and neuroimaging. Specifically, he
The first is that abstract concepts make people feel less discusses how iconicity contributes to concept acquisition and
authoritative and defer more to others; hence there would use, how linguistic labels influence concepts, and how relations
be a benefit in terms of social cohesion. The second is that among words can capture some conceptual content, and
converging on abstract terms would be easier. Hence, describes the role inner speech can play in accessing the content