questions about this newly learned physical causal relation- fictional possibilities and their outcomes [2,3,22-24]. For example,
ship. Nyhout et al. [12] found that, in a ‘blicket machine’ while pretending, a child may imagine that a banana is a tele-
task, preschoolers were able to correctly reason about overde- phone, then work through various instances of what would
termined scenarios, where an outcome has multiple causes happen if it were indeed a telephone rather than a banana.
(e.g. would the machine still have activated if only one of This is structurally similar to thinking through counterfactual
two ‘blickets’ was removed), despite struggling with overde- scenarios, where a hypothetical change to a premise may bring
termined counterfactual scenarios until much later ages in about a range of different outcomes, and an agent must reason
other contexts (e.g. [12,13,18]). about the various possibilities.

Most relevant to the present paper, Buchsbaum et al. [14] As discussed above, researchers have found that children
argue that pretence and counterfactual reasoning exercise the spontaneously pretend at a much younger age, around 18
same underlying causal reasoning mechanisms (see [19,20] months, than they first demonstrate competence in counterfac-
for similar arguments) and provide correlational evidence tual reasoning, around age 4. In fact, the experimental
to support this hypothesis. As noted above, the content of literature suggests that placing hypothetical questions within
counterfactual questions appears to play an important role a pretence or fantasy setting actually enhances young chil-
in children’s counterfactual competence. The content of dren’s ability to reason from a false premise [25-28]. In these
pretend play can also vary widely, reflecting children’s differ- studies, pretence may have supported children’s ability to
ing domain knowledge. In order to help control for potential quarantine a fictitious premise from real-world knowledge
differences in content and domain knowledge, Buchsbaum and reason through causal outcomes. Taken together this
et al. compared children’s responses to a specific counterfac- could suggest that the ability to reason causally during pre-
tual and pretence prompt in exactly the same situation—a tence emerges early and supports further development of
blicket machine-like ‘birthday machine’—and so could ask complex real-world counterfactual reasoning.
the children to produce pretence responses that were highly While pretence is ubiquitous in young children regardless of
comparable to the counterfactual ones. culture and economic standing, empirical work suggests that
