corresponding emotions (e.g. anxiety; elation) which may fully caught and fanned into a flame, requiring fire-feeding
drive them to act to prevent disaster or to increase the likeli- materials to be at the ready. Maintenance of fire also requires
hood of success in their own situation [27,28]. We can mimic ongoing attention, particularly if certain temperatures are
events or paint scenes—but it is spoken language that we required for cooking or tool-making. While there are glim-
most widely use to communicate our memories of past mers of evidence for controlled use of fire reaching back
events, imaginings of future possibilities and thoughts some 1.6 Ma, habitual use of fire (systematically repeated
about options [29]. People relentlessly ask questions and use of fire in specific sites and/or regions [39]) is only evident
give advice reflecting our distinct urge to exchange mental from about 400000 to 300000 years ago [39-41] (figure 1).
scenarios [22]. Such exchanges have led us to construct A particularly useful archaeological record of change in
shared imaginary realities, where ornaments are symbols fire-use is found at the Israeli site of Qesem Cave [42].
with meaning and dead people keep living in some other Here, a well-preserved deposit recording the period between
world, where calendars structure our lives and_ fictional about 420000 down to 200000 years ago shows a distinct
stories can be more important than fact. pick up in the frequency of fire use from 300000 years ago,
We socially inherit cultural tools that are essential to our implying a change in human behaviour at this time.
everyday lives and ultimate survival (e.g. [30-32]). Though Shahack-Gross et al. [42] suggest that this change may be in
cultural evolution may at times proceed without much the size of the human group gathering to work next to the
higher cognition [33], in our ancestors foresight played a criti- fire, as well as how groups were organizing their space.
cal role in at least two ways: teaching and innovation [26]. We Stone tools have long been considered hard evidence for
do not just socially learn through copying, but also by delib- tracking hominin planning capacities, particularly owing to
erately instructing others in what we think they may need in their ubiquity and survivability across enormous spaces
future. We can use words, maps, and calendars to communi- and temporal periods. Engagement with such tools may
cate about what to expect where and when; in a sense such have played an important role in the evolution of mind
tools can ‘extend our mind’ [34]. Also, we can deliberately (e.g. [43]). While Oldowan technologies hint at developing
set out to find new solutions to recurring problems and we cognitive advances from about 2.5 Ma (e.g. [44]), it is not
can recognize solutions worth retaining for the future. Con- until the emergence of Acheulean technology some 1.8 Ma