We might also consider the development of semi-perma- as songlines) or not be easily recognizable to archaeologists.
nent forms of ornaments—beads and pendants made from For example, the Ammassalik carved wooden maps which
hard animal materials and stone—as possible evidence for are tactile and represent the coast lines of Greenland may
forethought as such items play a central role in message not have been interpreted correctly were it not for them
transmission. In recent times, ornaments are regularly used having been collected from the makers themselves [128].
to exosomatically carry information about the wearer. So Finally, people also constructed maps of time. The earliest

ingrained is this behaviour that archaeologists have been potential example was recovered from Aurignacian levels of


Abri Blanchard (France) and has been argued to track the this period. Alas, the evolution of language, let alone when | 6 |

lunar cycle [129]. Dating to about 32 000 years ago, this arte- it was used to convey stories about real or fictional possibili-
fact is an ovaloid plaque of bone about 10 cm long. One face ties, has remained unresolved and this is not the space to 3
of this piece features a series of small incisions of comma-like review that vexing issue (e.g. [105-108)). z
and circular shapes along with equally spaced notches along Another speculative indicator may be evidence for music, S
the top edge. Careful study of these intentional marks led as music is often intertwined with storytelling and religious Ss
Marshack to argue that the incised design represents a activity [141]. Music is defined as ‘sound that conveys =
lunar calendar, a suggestion upheld by ensuing analysis emotion’, and consequently, can be a powerful tool for con- S
[130] (see summary of Palaeolithic evidence for astronomy veying messages and stories [142], potentially aiding group ©
in [131]). Later examples include a 10 000-year-old arrange- cooperation, social cohesion and alliance signalling in early =
ment of 12 pits in Scotland (Warren Field) which is claimed communities [143-145]. It may also have been used asa mne- 5
to be the remnants of a lunar calendar [132], as well as an monic device for transmitting larger amounts of information. =
apparent solar calendar dated to 7000 years ago at Goseck Musical instruments become visible in the archaeological ©
in modern Germany. This last example comprises of two record in the form of flutes made from bird bone and mam-