in periods of interest. Africa, on the other hand, includes 140000 years ago, ‘occasional’ evidence appears in the
landscapes which were largely stable over very extended archeological record (those artefacts that were made in far
periods, but this stability resulted in another problem fewer numbers than everyday tools) indicating that multiple
where enormous numbers of artefacts were able to be laid forms of material culture had been co-opted into helping
down over many, many thousands of years, accumulating manipulate future possibilities through human interactions.
as an apparently single archaeological layer which can be dif- Signs of mobile containers, traps, and other novel tools
ficult to separate for meaningful temporal analysis [155,156]. begin to appear, indicating the presence of a feedback loop
Another factor we need to keep in mind is sample size. Some where foresight leads to innovations, that in turn increase
of the archaeological evidence which provides the clearest pic- the capacity to plan and prepare for possibilities [26]. Orna-
ture of foresight and storytelling, are items probably made in ments and burials, and eventually cave art and other
far fewer numbers than everyday technologies. Specifically, symbols indicate increased communication about events
ornaments, musical instruments, calendars, maps, and art other than the here and now. Indeed, in the latter part of
pieces could be expected to have been made only occasionally, this phase the first signs of entirely fictional scenarios in the
and therefore the likelihood of them being recovered by archae- form of theriothropes appear in the record.
ologists is significantly lower [157]. Furthermore, it should be The human capacity to construct mental scenarios and
remembered that once a form of evidence becomes visible in embed them into narratives is not a discreet, encapsulated cog-
the archaeological record, the behaviour that underpins those nitive module, but seems to depend on a host of cognitive
particular artefacts or features was probably practised long faculties that need to work in concert, as illustrated by Sudden-
before the date of the record. In other words, the archaeological dorf and Corballis’ theatre production metaphor [45]. To
signature tends to record when certain behaviours are commonly entertain events that may occur tomorrow and beyond, one
occurring—not their first appearance in the population. Such needs a mental stage to imagine the scenario offline, and recur-
first appearances are extremely unlikely to enter the archaeologi- sive capacities to combine basic elements, representations of
cal record and be found by archaeologists, and so the dates of objects and actors, into narratives. Furthermore, to take advan-
emergence we discuss are likely to underestimate the initial tage of any such mental plays one needs something akin to a
