ment of 12 pits in Scotland (Warren Field) which is claimed communities [143-145]. It may also have been used asa mne- 5
to be the remnants of a lunar calendar [132], as well as an monic device for transmitting larger amounts of information. =
apparent solar calendar dated to 7000 years ago at Goseck Musical instruments become visible in the archaeological ©
in modern Germany. This last example comprises of two record in the form of flutes made from bird bone and mam-
arcs which appear to track the changing location of sunrise moth ivory recovered from Geifenklésterle Cave (Swabian = =:
and sunset over the year [133]. Using this calendar, the Jura, Germany) around 43000 and 42000 years ago [146]. 5"
length of future days and the change of the seasons can be However, given how well-designed and crafted these =
predicted. Structures like these can be found around the tools were, they appear to have been the product of a long =
world (e.g. Wurdi Youang stone arrangement [134]; or tradition of flute-making. Therefore, musical instruments 8
Nabta Playa [135,136]), with the most famous probably must have first emerged at some earlier point in time, and =
being Stonehenge [137]. With space and time mapped out, of course, singing or whistling allow us to make music
people could ever more effectively teach each other, coordi- without leaving any traces. As it stands, we can only be con- s
nate plans, and shape the future to their own design. fident about fictional stories once people began to create =
visual representations of fictional creatures. &
Images of therianthropes—creatures that combine human
5. Evidence for storyte ling and thinking about and animal features—are the best evidence for fictional narra-
ee . tives in the deep past [147-149]. They imply some creative
fictional happenings thought as such creatures cannot be simply reproduced
Material evidence for early humans having shared narratives from real observations, and so it would seem reasonable to
is exceedingly hard to identify archaeologically owing to the assume that they represent characters that featured in fic-
ephemeral nature of storytelling. Having said this, collabor- tional stories. Up until recently, the famous ‘lion man’
ations between geological researchers and Indigenous sculpture in mammoth ivory recovered from Hohlenstein-
communities are finding ways to date stories. For example, Stadel, southwest Germany has been the oldest evidence
Nunn and Reid collected Aboriginal stories of coastline inun- for such an image [148]. Found in an Aurignacian context,
dation from 21 locations around the Australian coast and tied it has been dated to about 40 000-39 000 years ago, though