On Borghi & Binkofski’s understanding of abstractness in the referents of abstract words ‘cannot be experienced directly.’ El

imperceptibility sense, abstract concepts have referents that It seems we should expect concreteness ratings to line up
are ‘not concrete objects or entities,’ and not ‘visible, manip- with the notion of abstractness as imperceptibility and not 3
ulable or perceivable through any of our senses.’ Clearly, this abstractness as diversity of category members. However, the z
is a different sense in which a concept may be abstract than prompt adds that some words ‘fall in-between’ because ‘we 3
the sense in which ORGANISM and MAMMAL are abstract. More- can experience them to some extent.’ This is a crucial addition.
over, it may be that some concepts of imperceptible entities are Without it, concreteness ratings should be binary in nature—1
less specific and more general than others, in the sense that for if the referent is perceptible with the five senses and 0 if not.
there is more diversity among their referents [14]. For instance, In reality, they fall on a spectrum of 1 to 7 (with 7 as most con- ©
there may be some sense in which the referents of BELIEF, CIR- crete), in keeping with the idea that perceptibility can =
CUMSTANCE and AMoRALITY are more diverse than those of somehow come in degrees. At a conceptual level, as soon it = 5
SEVEN Or MONOTHEISM. This highlights the fact that there are is suggested by the prompt that the concreteness of a word = =
two different notions of abstractness in play that can dissociate. can fall on spectrum, the measure is asking participants to >
A strategy one may adopt in recognition of these distinct rate words on some feature other than whether the referents Ss
notions (and in fact adopted by Borghi & Binkofski [11]) is for words are strictly-speaking perceptible. Thus, those inter- =:
to specify that one is interested in only one or the other con- ested in abstract concepts in the imperceptibility sense 5!
ception of abstract concept and to focus one’s experimental should hesitate to adopt concreteness ratings as measures for &
work and theoretical claims on that conception alone. How- the kind of concept abstractness that interests them. (See =
ever, as a matter of disciplinary practice, it is more common Léhr [16] for related concerns about concreteness ratings.) 3
to blur the lines between the two, perhaps assuming that However, there is also reason for those interested in =
they retain some important commonality. For instance, Bolog- abstractness in the diversity-of-referents (or ‘concept speci- >
nesi ef al. [14] draw a similar distinction between ‘Abstraction ficity’) sense to be unsatisfied with concreteness ratings as a &
and Concreteness,’ finding the two notions ‘theoretically dis- proxies for levels of abstractness. In a recent analysis, Bolog- =
tinct, with ‘abstraction’ ‘describing the construction of nesi et al. [14] compared word concreteness ratings to their a