stable object, which must begin with dynamical engagements, between grasping one object and looking at another. Curiously,
and perception of affordances, to which the structures of they start to display negative affect when the mother removes
knowledge pertain. Objective features and objects are abstrac- the attended object as if the mother’s intervention were viewed
tions that have become shareable across instances and with as disruptive, requiring attentional resources to be negotiated
others. Starting the analysis of cognitive processes by taking between the participants actively. Later still, when children
these abstractions as ‘concrete objects’, as is common in the cog- are nine months old, fluent shifting of attention among
nitive sciences, actually takes for granted and views as basic multiple targets becomes more pronounced, and certain inter-
what must instead be stabilized in the flow of experience active routines, with both objects and parents, become stable.
with effort, which is often accomplished through routinized Finally, when they reach the age of 12 months, children are
actions, coactions and the structures of language. able to attend to objects in parents’ hands and those in their = =
Such stabilization undoubtedly has its foundation in own hands and to imitate their parents’ actions, perhaps +
our biological preparedness to perceive the physical environ- manifesting a more ‘mature’ concept of the object. In this _
ment. It is important, however, to highlight the fact that such developmental trajectory, the child’s agency, multimodal =
preparedness takes the form of morphological constraints on first-person experience in relation to actions, and social — 5!
processes rather than specific contents: a great deal is left scaffolding are all considered to be crucial. a
flexible to enable functional interaction with the physical and Social involvement plays an even more important role in =
social world. Thus even if our perceptual systems are prepared Di Paolo’s notion of participatory object perception [53]. He = &
to deal with the world of movable objects, the functioning of argues that it is difficult to produce a detached perception =
our perception is also contingent on individual experiences of objects (a way of regarding objects as external entities >
within a particular environment [48]. Early experiences of felt that have their own properties and are independent from s
movement and touch in relation to visual experiences can be the observer) by way of an individualistic exploration of the =
viewed as sources of relations, which contribute to objects’ environment. While it is possible to discover cross-modal sen- a
wholeness and permanence. sorimotor contingencies (I am looking at the ball while
Rather than relying on knowledge that is represented in touching its surface) or interact with the same objects in
the mind in the form of ‘object files’, which enrich basic per- the context of different actions (reaching for a ball versus