dictive and simulation functions [29], the cerebellum would power and aligned with previous findings, the present
be important for constructing internal models of social scen- approach should be replicated with more participants.
arios, mediating the learning, planning and coordination of Second, testing materials were limited to two texts and 14 ques-
actions required for efficient interaction and cooperation tions per questionnaire. Therefore, reservation is warranted
[25,28]. Recycling of these functions, we propose, would be concerning the generalizability of results. Note, however, that
vital for processing social concepts, insofar as linguistic units previous versions of this paradigm have yielded robust effects
reactivate the non-verbal experiences they denote [93,94]. In with similar numbers of trials [8,37,67], and classical language
fact, the cerebellum has been proposed as a critical region for tests, like the ‘embedded sentences’ subscale of the Boston
sequencing successive social events in textual materials [25]. Diagnostic Aphasia Examination [100], prove sensitive to neu-
This view fits well with current accounts that emphasize rodegeneration despite having only 10 items [101,102].
the role of both interpersonal exchanges [2-4] and emotional Nevertheless, future implementations of our protocol should
experience [5] for grounding abstract (including social) con- employ more complex stories and longer questionnaires.
cepts. In fact, cerebellar and other social cognition networks Third, as in previous CA research [16,25,41,103], neural signa-
are critical for negotiating information with others and tures of performance were circumscribed to offline recordings.
expressing affective states [25,41,80]. Thus, our account may This decision was strategic to preserve ecological listening con-
be seen as a specification of both positions, focused on social ditions (hardly attainable within a scanner) while avoiding the
concepts as a particular case of abstract concepts. Succinctly, extensive recording sessions required for online protocols (not
the disruption of brain systems mediating social interactions recommended for patients). More generally, the establishment
would distinctly affect abstract concepts evoking such of associations between offline behavioural performance and
experiences. Present findings, then, help foreground the con- resting-state connectivity has proven to be a productive frame-
tinuities between models of abstract concept processing in work across several socio-cognitive domains [42-44,104,105].
general, and of social semantics, in particular. Still, future works could complement this approach with real-
This perspective also has clinical implications, as strategic time neural measures, especially with tasks capturing different
semantic tasks could be leveraged to reveal potential markers types of social concepts.
