and used to describe a small number of concrete odour per- across different individuals, compared to descriptors applied
cepts (e.g. a specific odour source) while a low OSI would exclusively to a few smells (e.g. ‘banana’, ‘kipper’, ‘smoked
indicate that a descriptor is more common in olfaction con- fish’ and ‘laurel’). While few people agree on where ‘smell of
texts and, therefore, suggests that it is used to describe lemon’ begins and ends, or what is the prototypical instance,
many different odours. These two indexes identify four cat- many can find their own experiences covered by wider terms
egories of terms: terms with high olfactory association with like ‘sharp’ or ‘acrid’. If this is the case, the domain of smell
either high or low specificity, and terms with low olfactory would offer a counter-example to the postulated communica-
association with either high or low specificity. Looking at tive benefit of concrete terms, which could explain the
the large number of odour ratings published in Dravnieks increase of concrete terms in language over time [78]. On the
[72], the authors found, in their own words, that ‘descriptors other hand, the hypothesis of a communicative benefit of
that are used most broadly across odors and thus receive highest abstract terms in abstraction aligns with the general idea that
mean ratings are not those that are highly olfaction-associated, but more abstract terms are more ‘social’, meaning that we defer
instead are olfaction-unrelated and abstract. In fact, they appear to more to others in our linguistic community (e.g. [79,80])
often be words appropriated from other sensory modalities (e.g. when using them and generally feel less authoritative about
‘light’, ‘heavy’ and ‘warm’y’ ([69, p. 45]). But what could explain for instance their extension. A testable prediction here would
this comparative over-representation of abstraction, at odds be that people are more willing to receive social influence or
with what other researchers seem to complain about? On feel less authoritative when using abstract rather than concrete
the one hand, as the authors suggest, it is the general difficulty terms about smells.

to recognize specific odour-sources, which we described Another hypothesis, distinct from the idea that people are
above, that may lead to people using other vague, less olfac- metacognitively aware that they lack authority on the abstract
tion-related terms. On the other hand, ‘it could also be the case terms they use for smells, goes somewhat in an opposite

that these descriptors are perceived as hypernyms (super-sets or direction: the positive social feedback received when using
