concepts. Much of the recent discussion on abstract concepts
has argued that we need to recognize that abstract concepts

as a group are characterized by heterogeneity [19,55,61,62]. (a) Evidence for emotional grou ding

For example, a recent cluster analysis of semantic rating A key piece of evidence for emotional grounding is the fact
data found evidence for at least four kinds of abstract concepts: that emotional valence ratings are related to concreteness ratings
(i) philosophical and spiritual, (ii) self and_ sociality, in the manner of an inverted U-shaped pattern. Specifically, rela-
(iii) emotion and inner states, and (iv) physical, spatio- tively more strongly positive as well as relatively more strongly
temporal and quantitative concepts [55]. As stated by Pecher negative concepts are relatively less concrete [17,59]. This pattern
[31, p. 502], ‘abstract concepts should not be considered as a has generally been captured with polynomial regression models
single kind of concept’. Fully in line with this emerging recog- that include a quadratic emotional valence effect, thereby model-
nition that there are distinct varieties of abstract concepts, this ling the fact that more neutral concepts are relatively more
paper argues that emotional grounding has been erroneously concrete, and both positive and negative concepts are more
predicated on all abstract concepts. Finally, in line with many abstract. Newcombe et al. [57] also showed that a measure of
critiques of concreteness ratings [19,20,63-65], this paper ‘emotional experience’—the relative ease with which a concept
empirically demonstrates that once we operationalize concrete- evokes emotional experiences—is negatively correlated with con-
ness differently, the relationship between emotional valence creteness ratings (r=—0.26). Similarly, Villani ef al. [55]
and concreteness reverses sign, i.e. we obtain results that are demonstrated a positive correlation between abstractness ratings
diametrically opposed to the emotional grounding hypothesis. and emotionality ratings for Italian (r = 0.24).

A key reaction time study in this field of research was
conducted by Kousta ef al. [16], who unexpectedly found that

2. Backg round. How does emotion relate to the abstract concepts are processed faster than concrete ones when