We know that methzemoglobin is a typical product of the action of nitrites, and the
question arises : can nitrous acid be formed by the blood from aldoxime ?
This seems both chemicaliy and physiologically improbable, and the question raises
the still disputed problem as to the nature of methemoglobin.
Methzmoglobin was formerly described as a reduction product of oxyhzemoglobin,
Later observers, more especially Gracosa (‘ Zeits. f. Physiol. Chem.,’ vol. 3, p. 54) have
5 regarded it as a superoxidised oxyhemoglobin in which the oxygen is more stably
‘= held than in simple oxhyhemoglobin. This extra oxygen could not be obtained
86 directly from aldoxime. Aldoxime is not split up by reduction. The molecule is
4 reduced as a whole, into a primary amine.
‘S In order to obtain nitrous acid. from aldoxime there must be an oxidation process.
EB Active processes of oxidation in the blood are paradoxical to the generally received
3 physiology of to-day. It is a well proved fact that active processes of oxidation take
4 place in the tissues, indeed we know that such is a necessary condition for the life
@ of the tissue cells. I cannot see why it should therefore be argued that oxidation
% processes cannot take place in the blood. The blood is also a tissue containing living
= cells. These cells must consume oxygen in the same way as any other living cells.
g Active oxygen has not been found in extra-vascular tissues any more than in the
& blood. It is a fact that reducing substances cannot be found in normal blood ; but
8 according to the experiments of Lupwie and ALEXANDER Scumipt (ALEX. SCHMIDT,
& ‘Ber. ttber die Verhandl. der Siichs. Ges, der Wissensch. zu Leipzig, Math. phys.
§ Classe,’ vol. 19, p. 99, 1867), the blood of animals, which have died of suffocation,
contains only traces of oxygen or none at all, whilst it contains reducing substances in
large quantities. Aranasstew (N, Aranasstew, ‘ Ber. der Siichs. Ges. der Wissen-
- sch.,’ vol. 24, p. 253, 1872) showed later that these reducing substances could only be