and population extinctions continue, the range shrinks
even further (figure 1b, stage 4), to the point that only a few

5. Po pu lation declines and extinctions: the heart populations, comprising a few individuals (therefore demo-
graphically and genetically non-viable), remain. At this stage,

of the impending mass extinction the species can still be counted as not extinct, even though it
We re-emphasize that the magnitude of the current extinction has experienced the collapse of its populations and
crisis is underestimated owing to three key factors. First, the humanity has lost the ecosystem services it once supplied.
lack of attention given to this existential threat [38]. Second, The extinction dynamics depicted here represent the prelude
most people, even many scientists, assume incorrectly that of the global extinction of species and are exemplified by
the problem is primarily one of the disappearance of species numerous species of plants and animals. For example, from a
when it is in fact the existential threat of myriad population sample of 177 species of mammals, just shy of 50% exhibited
extinctions [44]. Third, while concerned scientists know a range contraction of at least 80% in the period of 1990-2015
there are many individual and collective steps that must be [44]. Similarly, billions of populations of plants and animals
taken to slow the rate of population extinctions, only some have been lost in the last centuries, and the most recent
advocate one fundamental, necessary and ‘simple’ cure. Living Planet Report indicates that the abundance of individ-
That, of course, is reducing the scale of the human enterprise uals of a large number of monitored species of animals has
[38]. declined by 70% over the last four decades [46]. These

Let us consider, first the global extinction of species—the examples constitute a vivid representation of the population
total disappearance of different kinds of organisms from the extinction crisis.
face of the Earth; that is the facet of the sixth mass extinction Furthermore, from the point of view of the species’
event that captures most of the attention, among both the ecological roles within their natural communities and eco-
scientific community and the public. The strong emphasis systems, it is their local populations that really matter.