needs many parts. The planktonic unicellular Pedinella, for (2) if humans have advanced significantly toward individual-
example, has many different types of macroscale structures, ity at the social level, they have done so by a very different
including two different types of flagellum, a chromatophore, route than the earlier major transitions at the colony level,
a nucleus, mitochondria, tentacles, contractile vacuole, food sufficiently different that the markers that characterize these
vacuoles, and so on, each with a specialized function. By con- other major transitions are not present.
trast, a given cell in a complex multicellular organism has to Regarding alternative 1 above, it is worth noting that
do very little. If it is a skin cell, for example, its main function some others are also sceptical, including Stearns [52], who
is simply to attach to other skin cells and shield the organism. raises the possibility that human societies have not achieved
It does not have to pursue food, because a circulatory system a high level of individuality, and Kesebir [55], who approves
delivers food to its doorstep. It does not have to propel itself, of the superorganism metaphor to describe certain features of
because all necessary movement is accomplished by the human societies but offers reasons to think we have not
larger organism. And reproduction is handled by a different reached that level in all respects. Still, some are more confi-
cell type within the whole, the germ line. And in fact, these dent that a human major transition is at least underway
cells have fewer parts than most protists. Bloods cells typi- and will rightly point out that the evidence offered here
cally have even fewer, some with no macroscale parts at all. against one is mainly impressionistic. That is a reasonable
The complexity drain also operated in the transition to the complaint, and one that points to the need for more data.
eukaryotic cell, e.g. the loss of genes in the bacterial ancestors Each of the four reasons will need data of a different sort.
of mitochondria. And there is some evidence that it hap- For reason 1, overconnectedness, the identification of connec-
pened at the colony level. Some social-insect workers lack tions will need to be operationalized, and then connections
ovaries. In sum, the argument here is that part loss is an indi- appropriately weighted, producing a connectivity graph,
cator of selection acting at the level of the larger whole, and then a graph-theoretic measure of degree of hierarchical
favouring the stripping of no-longer-functional parts from organization will have to be developed and applied. For
its component individuals. reason 2, selection in growth versus reproductive mode, the
As far as I know, there is no formal data relevant to a com- distinction between reproduction and growth will need to
plexity drain in humans. One could argue that social living be operationalized, and data gathered on the frequency of