brain [8], the intersubjective level [12], or the levels of mainly because we adapted ourselves (individually) to the
joint and shared intentionality [9,10]. Language, within requirements of our collective-cumulative cultures. This will
this picture, is not an innate capacity but a gadget: a be the starting point for my discussion: it is a huge step
collectively constructed communication technology [13]. forward in our understanding of ourselves.
(ii) Contrary to the old belief, our performance ona variety I do believe, however, that this paradigm shift still leaves
of cognitive tasks is often weaker than that of the apes the most important issue out of the picture. It conceptualizes
[14]. Where we are incomparably superior, however, is the Rubicon as a quantitative threshold: on both banks of the
in tasks involving social learning and mind reading— Rubicon, biological creatures cooperate, learn from each
which are exactly the capacities required for a life of other, warn each other of dangers, and manoeuvre their
downloading from the Net [15]. We learn what we need way around in complex social realities—the difference is
to know, including our languages, from the others that on their bank all this only happens in rudimentary
around us. The sophistication of our thoughts is due fashion, whereas it takes over as the organizing principle of
to the fact that we build them on the accumulated life on our bank. All this is probably correct as such, but it
wisdom of past generations. cannot be the whole story. There was a very clear quality to
(iii) Human communities show levels of cooperation, infor- the Rubicon: something very deep happened when our

mation sharing and division of labour, accompanied by ancestors crossed it.


2. The transition in individuality: collaborative We can only know the transition has been completed
. when we see A and B constructing information together.
computation

To get closer to the qualitative nature of the Rubicon, let us What is the common denominator here? Well, the above
adopt the explanatory strategy developed by Simona Ginsburg list calls on us to turn our attention from the mental contents