What this means is that the computational dynamics
inside B’s nervous system, when B plays the role of the recei-
ver, are no longer fully independent. B allows A to send a long

designed for manoeuvring in social space; various forms hand, so to speak, into the computational dynamics taking
of cooperation developed and stabilized; social learning place inside B’s nervous system, and instruct them in their
began to allow the construction of rudimentary cultures. work. B actually relinquishes control of some of his or her
Eventually, apes developed the capacity to make educated computations, and allows A to partially manage them.
guesses about some of the mental dynamics of the others. This, I would like to suggest, is the communicative foun-
This, quite simply, is the furthest one can get without dation of the human condition. The animals live in solitary
collaborative computation. networks in which they take turns in sending independent
Solitary computation severely constrains the envelope of messages to each other. We do that too, but what makes us
sociality. When our ancestors crossed the Rubicon, they unique is the fact that we take turns in doing something radi-
did not just push their collective efforts beyond a quantita- cally different: instructing each other’s minds in the course of
tive threshold: they broke the glass ceiling of solitary the effort of collaborative computation. This is how our
computation, and opened a totally new space of collective ancestors managed to stabilize a way of communal life
possibilities (and collective problems) that is uniquely our based on collaborative computation: they gradually devel-
own. In a very real sense, the entire evolutionary history of oped and accumulated—throughout human evolution (and
the human species, from the very beginning until today, is then human history)—an ever-growing variety of unique
the story of this new space — how we gradually filled it up communicative tools that are specifically designed for

and how it gradually changed us. instructive communication.


While we humans share many communicative behaviours some perceptual information to B: M is the object pointed | 5 |