givers and peers, where the entire toolkit is used. In the other teach, to demonstrate, to plan collaborative projects, to nego-
animals, on the other hand, the toolkit is completely absent. tiate and coordinate them in real time, to re-enact them later
The apes show that they can learn to use some of it, in a very in order to draw conclusions for next time, to stabilize prac-
rudimentary way, only in the artificial environment of the lab- tical divisions of labour, and to construct a collective sense
oratory, where they are exposed to human behaviours and of identity and common purpose.
encouraged to adopt them [43]. They learn to point, for What makes all these tools members of the same toolkit is
example, but only at food that they cannot reach by themselves, the fact they allow communicators to instruct the same subset
and only to a human who they think can help. In the wild, they of their interlocutors’ mental computations: the mental
show no signs of pointing. The impressive linguistic achieve- computations involved in their perceptual experiencing of the
ments of the apes in the laboratory are based on their immediate environment around them. Mimesis thus allows
pointing achievements [44], and testify more than anything for full-fledged collaborative computation of information
else to their plasticity in learning. In the wild, where there is that the individuals involved experience together. As a
no pointing, there is no language. matter of fact, as long as the information is available for per-
Merlin Donald was the first in modern times to identify this ception by all sides, mimesis is far superior to language as a
toolkit as the missing link between ape culture and language- tool of instruction.
based human culture [35]. He characterized the entire set of Exactly because of this, however, mimesis is severely con-
behaviours as instances of what he called mimesis (not to be strained by the condition of direct experiencing: it can do
confused with mimicry). In mimetic behaviours, according to very little when the information is not presentable. Mimesis
Donald’s definition, the body is intentionally used as a rep- breaks the glass ceiling of solitary experiencing, but remains
resentational device (mimicry is simply one such behaviour). inside the realm of experiencing as such.
Here, again, I believe that the definition deserves an update: This is where language comes into the story. As I show in
mimetic behaviours are indeed intentional usages of the detail in [13], it is specifically designed by cultural evolution
body as a representational device, but this as such is not for instructive interactions dealing with information that is
what makes them so important. The key to mimesis lies else- not available for experiential presentation. While mimesis
where: it is the first toolkit that our ancestors developed that instructs the senses, language instructs the imagination.