ation to generation, provide cultural inheritance at the group As the PPNA ends, only one Neolithic culture remains,
level. At this point, a complex and stable community and spreads across the Levant [43]. The selective benefit for
has evolved. the group is clear, but why would the individual farmer

Indeed, when reviewing the archaeological data from the not revert to gathering when facing a bad wet season? First,
Natufian to the PPNA: ‘It seems that there was a need to deal if under the Neolithic social structure being a ‘farmer’
both with the ‘external’ changes in groups’ subsistence means you follow the ‘shaman’s’ or ‘ruler’s’ orders, personal
resources (necessitated by changes in territory sizes and preference gives way to enforced group pressure or personal
population densities), as well as with the ‘inner’ social internalization of groupthink or group-identity. Second, if
alterations ... [as] the changes affected some groups more one’s ‘profession’ /’caste’ and/or economic status ‘rich’/
than others’ [1, p. 40]. ‘poor’ has a smaller effect on one’s reproductive success

In fact, the ETI model seems to unknowingly function as a than the result of competition with a neighbouring group,
simplifying ‘inference to the best explanation’ tool for orga- group selection overrides individual selection. Therefore,
nizing the extensive data from the Neolithic Revolution. For what seems like a farmer’s non-rational altruism becomes
example, see Belfer-Cohen & Goring-Morris [1, p. 41]: ‘Thus rational when group fitness is decoupled from individual fit-
one can observe for the Natufian the following: ness. At this point, the farmer’s own fitness depends

primarily on group membership; hence, the cost of altruism

1. As communities became increasingly sedentary, there that still exists compared with his non-farming neighbour is

were opportunities to accumulate more ‘wealth’ (ie. actually lower than the selfish alternative of reverting to

material belongings). hunting and gathering.