(e)
H,0PO,*
c—o H
H—C—OH + HO + + °°
H—C—OH coo “Tr OH
CH,0PO,* H CH,0PO,*
@ A O)

Figure 2. The RuBisCosphere. The enzyme ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase runs what is perhaps the most important reaction of the biosphere by fixing inorganic
(0, of the air to the 5-carbon sugar ribulose bisphosphate, generating two 3C phosphoglycerate molecules that can subsequently enter central metabolism. Despite
millions of years of evolutionary history RuBisCo is not only very inefficient (fixing only 2-5 CO, molecules s~"), but it is also non-specific for CO,, and (depending
on conditions) it can also add CO, to ribulose bisphosphate and channel the products towards a different metabolic process (photorespiration). Photosynthetic
species typically compensate these problems by producing high levels of the protein—it is in fact believed to be the most abundant enzyme on Earth. Various
variants of the RuBisCo-dependent Calvin cycle can be found in woody plants (a), many types of non-photosynthetic autotrophic bacteria (b), cyanobacteria (c), crops
(d), surface greenery (e), phytoplankton (f), seaweed/kelp (g), and grassy plants (h). All of these shape the RuBisCosphere, the key ruler of the CO, balance in
planet Earth.

can be removed through CU are altogether insufficient to large-scale interventions to modify physico-chemical processes
have even a minimal effect in the composition of atmospheric involved in regulating surface temperature, e.g. the albedo,
gases and thus very little effect on climate change. Further- cloud formation, capturing CO, with enhanced rock weather-
more, most CU processes typically fail to deliver a net ing [28], ocean basification [29], etc. Beyond its technical
balance of C removal—thus often increasing rather than feasibility, geoengineering is to this day the subject of a con-
decreasing the problem. In summary, whether mitigation or siderable controversy [30], including inter alia the need of
adaptation, the mainstream discourse thus far on how to extraordinarily large infrastructures and phenomenal invest-
deal with a warmer planet focuses on reducing emissions, ments for making it happen. This virtually leaves the