and extreme cooperation. The mechanisms of engagement choreography of the agricultural system are in order. Econom-
(culture and genetic change through mutation and selection) ists have long understood that there are efficiencies to the

of the agricultural system hold centre stage in discussions of division of labour that are universal and undeniable. Biologists


studying insect superorganisms note the same. Efficiencies value is generated in production and realized in sale where

may influence the selection process toward a more elaborate it becomes profit. Generating profit and reinvesting become
division of labour for both insect superorganisms that practise imperatives of the system, a requirement for staying in the
agriculture and human societies that engage agriculture. The game. This should be understood as something more founda-
focus on efficiency, however, should not eclipse the more tional than simple greed. Capitalism functions according to
important fact that the division of labour around the focal its own internal logic, a logic that is disconnected from the
point of grain cultivation (or fungi cultivation) provides cohe- ecologies of the Earth even as it is a fundamentally material
sion to the nascent agricultural group. This cohesion provides system. To understand this, simply think about all the
integrity to the agricultural system and it is an integral part of economic variables that are interrelated and react with one
its power and formation as a distinct whole. The system another. An economy can become depressed not because it
becomes more structurally interdependent as a result of the runs out of resources but by a problematic linkage between
division of labour around cultivation. The evolutionary biol- savings and investment for example—this is part of the =
ogist Peter Corning refers to the division of labour as the internal logic of the system.'* Global capitalism fertilized >
paradox of dependency. He tells us: ’... there isa deep paradox with the use of fossil fuel brings the duality between econ- — __
involved in dividing up and sharing the elements of a job. It omy and Earth that began with the agricultural system to =
creates an interdependency; everyone must do their part or its apogee. Constraints to expansion imposed by energy are = S'
the desired outcome will not be achieved.’ The division of temporarily removed and the internal logic of the system is = >
labour creates ‘a built-in enforcer for cooperation’ [18, p. 50]. left to play itself out independent of biophysical constraints