extent their material life is dictated by the rhythm and transition. In all these species a sociality that enabled the | 3 |

dynamic of the more-than-human world. In this way, they deployment of a division of labour does not require agricul-
must be considered an embedded species. The feedback ture, but the division of labour becomes more extensive with
loops dictated by the imperative of mobility kept population agriculture, leading Hélldobler & Wilson to refer to the insects
density and growth rates low and limited material expansion. that practise agriculture as an example of an ‘extreme insect
In fact, by the time humans began the practice of cultivation superorganism’ [17]*. The questions posed here are where to
of annual grains the total human population on Earth stood place the transition to agriculture in the evolutionary history
at around 6-10 million people. One might say that hunting of humans; where to place agriculture, a particular type of
and gathering is an energetically contained system and not economic system, in the complexity of evolution; and finally
an energetically expansionary system. Homo sapiens resided whether it is correct to subsume the agricultural transition in] = >
in this type of economy for tens of thousands of years humans into the evolution of culture. 5
before they were collectively altered by the agricultural revo- The fact that agriculture is not the exclusive domain of © =
lution beginning 10000-12000 years ago. Once humans humans is curious, but the more important point is that the = =>
began the practice of grain agriculture, the trajectory, structure and dynamic of material life around agriculture are Ss
dynamic and organization of their economic life fundamen- unique, and the same for all species that made the transition =
tally shifted. This was not a continuum along a path, rather to agriculture. All species involved in agriculture engageacoe- 5!
it was a dramatic break from the past. volution that plays on and enhances the inherent tendencies of = >
Annual grain agriculture stands in contradistinction to the species that cultivate—this is especially apparent in the =
hunting and gathering. Grain agriculture is a system that expansion of their capacity for a division of labour but alsoin = &
has distinct feedback loops between cultivation, division of their coevolution with the species they cultivate. All engage ©
labour, and population that are mutually reinforcing and positive feedback loops that are expansive. That process can S
positive, making humans materially and therefore existen- be understood for humans in this way [6]. Early agriculture
tially interdependent and expansionary around the focal required an expansion of the division of labour simply because =
point of grain cultivation. In this way a duality developed it was attached to a pre-existing system of hunting and gather- pat