dynamic and organization of their economic life fundamen- unique, and the same for all species that made the transition =
tally shifted. This was not a continuum along a path, rather to agriculture. All species involved in agriculture engageacoe- 5!
it was a dramatic break from the past. volution that plays on and enhances the inherent tendencies of = >
Annual grain agriculture stands in contradistinction to the species that cultivate—this is especially apparent in the =
hunting and gathering. Grain agriculture is a system that expansion of their capacity for a division of labour but alsoin = &
has distinct feedback loops between cultivation, division of their coevolution with the species they cultivate. All engage ©
labour, and population that are mutually reinforcing and positive feedback loops that are expansive. That process can S
positive, making humans materially and therefore existen- be understood for humans in this way [6]. Early agriculture
tially interdependent and expansionary around the focal required an expansion of the division of labour simply because =
point of grain cultivation. In this way a duality developed it was attached to a pre-existing system of hunting and gather- pat
between the agricultural system and the human relationship ing, so the number of tasks in day-to-day life was additive. As
to Earth, limiting the fluid interchange with the rhythm well, grain production is inherently expansionary owing to the
and dynamic of the more-than-human world to annual fact that grains can be stored and the production in any given
cycles around the production of annual grains. James year is uncertain. Production in any given year is pushed to a
C. Scott tell us that humans were ‘disciplined and subordi- maximum to guard against this year-to-year uncertainty.
nated to the metronome of our own crops....Once Homo Surplus production is a foundation of grain agriculture and
sapiens took that fateful step into agriculture, our species surplus further expands the division of labour in humans. In
entered an austere monastery whose task master was simplistic terms it opens the door for many occupations that
mostly the genetic clockwork of a few plants’ [12, p. 91]. are not directly engaged in agricultural production. It is
Thus, grain agriculture changed the expression of human also the case that grain production is standardized through
cooperation, the collective energetics of the human species, the coevolution of all species involved. This too expands and
and the human relationship with the more-than-human regiments the division of labour. For example, the selection
world and each other. It formed an economic system that of non-shattering seeds may have happened without any
had an insular and self-referential integrity to it that might be intent but it served to standardize grains and their production.
considered a unique whole in the evolution of human Standardization provides a way to capitalize on the efficiency