ing degrees of rotational and/or translational symmetry It may be alternatively that the symmetry of grid cells = =
in their spatial firing patterns, arising from an interaction actually has no function: that it is a by-product of whatever =
between intrinsic dynamics and external environmental influ- process causes the cells to fire in spatially discrete regions &
ences. The question arises as to whether these properties have of uniform size. The characteristic hexagonal pattern appears =
implications for spatial coding. A priori, spatial symmetries in when animals forage uniformly over the surface of asym- 3
neural firing could potentially have both negative and metrical, open arena, but we have seen that the pattern s
positive consequences on spatial coding. readily distorts if the arena is not symmetric [48] or if the tra- =
The asymmetry of place cell firing in a single symmetrical jectory of the animal is interrupted [35,51]. When we consider a
environmental compartment is useful because it carries spatial that the natural world is mostly asymmetric and full of bar-
information that disambiguates animal's current location, and riers, it seems likely that a normal ‘day in the life of a grid
indeed a spatial information measure has long been used to cell’ does not entail producing a hexagonal close-packed
quantify this disambiguation [56]. In repeating environments array of firing fields. This consideration suggests, instead,
when the place cell pattern repeats, spatial information is that the relevant feature of grid firing is not in fact the
thus lower, and a decoding analysis (where the firing pattern symmetry. This is supported by the observations in 3D volu-
is used to infer the animal's current location, based on previous metric spaces described earlier that even when animals can
mapping of place fields) yields multiple locations [13]. The explore the space using uninterrupted trajectories (as in
repetition suggests that place cells are not using an obvious bats) the fields are irregularly dispersed [53]. Since this
possible source of disambiguation, the distance travelled same pattern was seen in rats, in an apparatus for which
between one compartment and the next—this may be because efficient navigation has been demonstrated [57,58], the impli-
of the observation by Carpenter et al. mentioned earlier that the cation is that regular grids are not needed for the spatial
grid cells themselves, which may convey distance information computations underlying navigation. This raises the question
to place cells, repeat their patterns, at least until the environ- of what the relevant feature of grid cell firing is in that case: it
ment is familiar [42]. This ambiguity in coding is associated seems likely that it must be the other salient characteristic,
with reduced spatial performance because animals have which is the discreteness of the firing regions. It may
difficulty discriminating the compartments when they are be that the primary function of grid cells is to discretize the