
that the prey is already roughly directly ahead of the Although, as noted above, the two models presented here
animal. For triggering strikes, greater accuracy is required, are certainly a simplication of mantis stereopsis, it, therefore,
since mantids rarely strike at monocular stimuli or at prey seems that praying mantids may not possess a crude, low-
which is out of their catch range [6,28,105,106]. Here, we resolution version of vertebrate stereopsis—a version of
found that we did need a disparity sensor which achieves figure 6a with fewer, larger disparity sensors, operating on
weak correspondence: our model fitted a strong expansive temporally filtered inputs rather than image contrast.
output nonlinearity (raising to the power of 5). As well as Rather, current evidence is consistent with something even
greatly enhancing the response to optimal stimuli, this also more basic, as sketched in figure 6b,c. Table 1 makes an
boosts the average response to matching stimuli, relative to attempt to compare and contrast the two stereoscopic systems
non-matching stimuli with the same average monocular found in primates and insects. This should be regarded as a
value. This is formally very similar to the binocular simple set of ‘current best guesses’ intended to stimulate future
cell, the building-block of current models of primate stereop- work and discussion, rather than as a list of established facts.
sis. However, monocular processing before binocular One claim sometimes made is that the forms of stereopsis
combination renders the mantis disparity sensor insensitive proposed here are ‘not really stereopsis’. Clearly, this is a
to properties of the stimulus which are fundamental to pri- matter of definition. Some researchers have emphasized the
mate stereopsis, such as the direction of local motion or the qualia associated with human stereopsis (e.g. ‘a compelling
sign of contrast (bright versus dark) [34,35]. This again perception of solidity or three-dimensionality, a clear sense
seems very poor design from the point of view of primate of space between objects and a phenomenal sense of realism’,
stereopsis and conventional machine stereo. [116]), but it is unclear how to test for this in non-human
That said, the proposed stereo-guided strike system does species or in machines. I prefer to define stereopsis as ‘the
implement at least a weak form of stereo correspondence. It ability to gain information about the 3D structure of visual
also seems fair to argue that it achieves a form of binocular scenes by comparing information collected separately and
single vision for isolated objects, if we assume that activation simultaneously from different lines of sight to the same
of a disparity sensor triggers a percept of a single object at the region of space’ [30]. This definition in terms of information