social understanding in work on predictive processing [46,47].


input processing and behaviour generation, as well as the Yet, today’s Al systems are only able to account for these aspects

dichotomy of lower-level and higher-level processing. De offline and in narrow toy scenarios.
Bruin & Strijbos [48] argue that principles of predictive pro- Classical approaches to dialogue modelling have looked
cessing and, in particular, the so-called Free Energy into formal models of the so-called conversational records
Principle (FEP) provide a perspective toward social cognition or information states [53,54], which describe the information
that overcomes the classical sandwich-model-based views on that is currently private or shared (grounded) between inter-
social understanding and social interaction. The FEP was locutors. However, a socio-cognitive approach to distinguish
developed as a theory for perception under the framework mental perspectives is rarely adopted. For one thing, this is
of predictive coding, wherein probabilistic distributions due to the fact that modelling nested beliefs and trying to
over latent variables in generative models are inferred for infer them as hidden states gets complex and quickly even
the observed sensation by minimizing the prediction error intractable. Thus, we argue for artificial socio-cognitive sys-
(the free energy) [24,47,49]. tems to follow a good-enough or ‘satisficing’ approach to =

Later, a corollary of the FEP, active inference, was devel- mentalizing, by employing minimal ToM models when poss- >
oped as a framework for action generation wherein action ible and more complex ones when needed [55]. For example, Ss
policies as well as the probabilistic distribution of future a minimal model would differentiate between three perspec- =:
latent variables in generative models are inferred by minimiz- tives: my own beliefs (first-person), the interlocutor’s beliefs = 5"
ing the so-called expected free energy (uncertainty with (second-person) and our shared beliefs (first-person plural). 5
respect to goal-directed action outcomes). The major advan- The latter corresponds to mental states that every interactant =
tage of this approach for goal-directed action, compared believes to hold for all interactants, including oneself. This = &
with conventional forward models, is that the model can model was shown to be able to account for basic initiation eo]