or not this was beneficial to the task at hand. However, this necessarily be present in the same room, or even believed
effect was not present when the stimulus was referred to as to possess full social agency. For example, in many economic
a ‘car’. Similarly, Wiese et al. [17] showed participants or reputation management tasks the participants may never
images of both human and robot faces. Participants were see or meet the ‘other’ participant (who is often simply a
informed that the eye movements of the face could be con- computer algorithm), and yet the implication that another
trolled by either a human or a robot. They found that gaze person is both present and observing the participant is
cueing effects were significantly larger when participants found to lead to social facilitation effects. However, audience
believed the faces were controlled by a human agent regard- effects are often more ambiguous within groups of autistic
less of whether they viewed a human or robot face. Further, participants [23]. The aforementioned research which
in a more recent study, Gobel et al. [19] demonstrated that argues that autistic participants are less socially motivated =
participants synchronized their own eye movements to the than their neurotypical peers is often drawn on as an expla- >
movements of a red dot when they believed it to represent nation for why autistic participants may display weaker Ss
the eye movements of another participant compared to audience effects [21,23]. In fact, in tasks that require repu- = =:
when they believed the movement was generated by a com- tation management, autistic participants do not show the = 5!
puter. Taken together, the results of these studies suggest same concern for managing their reputation with a socia a
that participants are sensitive to whether a stimulus rep- partner as do neurotypical participants [22]. Yet, despite =
resents a social entity or not, be this via social agency or this, autistic participants have still been found to display  &
representation of the physical manifestation of a social audience effects and social facilitation on simple cognitive =
entity depicted as eyes, and this guides visual attention. tasks, whereby they show better performance in the physica =
It has been argued that autistic people are less sensitive to presence of a social partner [28]. Taken together, the research s
the presence of other people. Indeed, much previous research discussed in this section calls into question the claim that all =
has indicated that individuals with an autism diagnosis do autistic participants lack sensitivity to social agency. Indeed, RS]
not demonstrate a social facilitation effect [21-23], the social the results of these studies suggest that the behaviour of at
facilitation effect being improved performance when in the least a subset of autistic individuals is influenced by a
presence of others. The ‘social motivation hypothesis’ social presence in a similar manner to that of their neurotypi-