Figure 3. Prelamin A is dynamically regulated during C2C12 differentiation. (a) Phase contrast images of (2C12 differentiation occurring over 168 h. Scale = 30 um.
(b,c) Western blotting revealed a dynamic and potentially cooperative relationship of prelamin A and Zmpste24 abundance during (2C12 differentiation to myofi-
brillogenesis. (d) Summary of time-dependent protein abundance changes in differentiating C2C12 cells. n = 3 independent myotube differentiation experiments.
One-way ANOVA with Tukey's post hoc test for multiple comparisons was used to test for statistical differences.

disruption. As such, we hypothesize that prelamin A poten- observation of the 150kDa protein band. Hypothetically,
tially plays a subtle supporting role in myofilament dimerization of prelamin A to form a homo- or hetero-
structure and/or function in fully developed sarcomeres. dimer could provide a signal which facilitates the localization
One confusing finding was that Zmpste24 was also present of prelamin A from the nuclear rim/peri-nuclear region to
in the sarcomeric fraction, suggesting it may localize in more remote regions of the cell to form part of the Z-disc.
close proximity to prelamin A in sarcomeres. This would Indeed, to speculate further this process may serve to inten-
suggest that it should be able to locally cleave prelamin A tionally prevent the processing of prelamin A by Zmpste24.
to yield lamin A. Further investigation is needed in this area. Taken in isolation, the fact that Zmpste24 expression and

Previously, it has been shown that prelamin A is dynami- localization in C2C12 myofibrillogenesis opposes prelamin
cally regulated during C2C12 myotube differentiation [13]. A expression and localization, suggests that the spatial regu-
Contrary to the current study, Capanni et al. focused primar- lation observed during differentiation of prelamin A and
ily on the nuclear domain and did not describe the formation Zmpste24 is mutually cooperative. Disruption of this process
of myofibrils and did not study timepoints later than 120 h. may explain the observation that prelamin A accumulates in
Intriguingly, Capanni et al. also described the presence of a muscle during disease [10,11]. That we noted Zmpste24 in the
150 kDa band during differentiation and speculated that sarcomeric and membrane fractions is also indicative of
this was a possible prelamin A dimer. In the current study differential regulation of Zmpste24 localization in muscle.
reducing conditions were employed for western blotting; Future investigations should aim to determine whether this
therefore, we argue that if it is a prelamin A dimer it must becomes dysregulated in disease.
