repeated in nearly identical form across multiple species, questions. The two most common focus on when in the evol-
including humans, allowing us to use the comparative utionary lineage a trait arose and what characteristics were
approach to gain some insight into how decision-making related to the selective pressure for a specific trait. The first of
evolved. This approach has been remarkably effective in these focuses on homologies, testing species within the same
other fields attempting to explore the evolution of human taxon, or phylogenetic lineage, with the assumption that
behaviour, such as imitation and social learning [29], metacog- species which share a trait through common descent will all
nition [30] and prosocial behaviour [31], to name a few. We do show the trait in question. For instance, if a trait, such as
in some cases discuss games that do not meet this criterion large brain-to-body ratios, is shared by all five great ape species
when they add to our understanding and refer the reader to (humans, chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans),
the above literature for a more in depth consideration of the but is absent to the same degree in the other catarrhine pri-
previous work. Finally, we note that most of our discussion mates (macaques, baboons, etc.), then we can develop
focuses on non-human primates (hereafter, primates), owing hypotheses about what selective pressure led to its emergence
to the simple fact that this is the taxon on which the majority in great apes and consider what factors tied to the evolution of
of the work has focused so far. That said, the absence of apes may have selected for it, as well as pinpointing when it
other species is a serious lacuna. It is critically important to emerged, which can be useful for tying the emergence of a
study other taxa to gain a fuller understanding of the evolution trait to known time periods (for instance, geological or climate
of economic decision-making. change events).

To date, the majority of games studied in non-human The second approach focuses on convergences among

species fall into three general categories; coordination, anti- species that share a trait, with the logic that if species share


several traits in common in addition to the trait of interest, assurances, it becomes significantly more challenging to inter-
