into the direct effects of mutant allele expression, which are recombination, mutation, or migration are strict ESSs. In
cost terms, and the indirect effects, which are the benefit effect, the reduction principle says natural selection on popu-
times relatedness terms. Thus, kin selection and the evolution lations at equilibrium in constant environments acts to reduce
of altruistic traits are easily captured with an ESS analysis of genetic and demographic processes that increase genetic vari-
invasion fitness. ation; this is intuitive as such genetic variation must result in
Given that previous work using the Price equation has lower fitness genotypes since the population is already at an
shown that kin selection and group selection partitions of fit- equilibrium and the environment is constant. Like Result 4.1,
ness are simply alternative ways of expressing genotype the reduction principle holds independent of the recombina-
frequency change in a population [20,137,139-141], it tion rate between the modifier locus and major loci that affect
should be possible to rewrite invasion fitness so as to group fitness. Since the reduction principle assumes large popu-
terms that constitute between-group selection, wgss(y, %), lation size, forces like local competition that might generate
and those that constitute within-group _ selection, positive ESS values of migration are not a factor [144].
Oxcss(¥, %). In fact, if we apply a neighbour-modulated In environments that are not constant, the reduction prin-
approach from [20,137] to the results from [54], we obtain ciple does not hold as genetic variation can be beneficial
. . . . a depending on the environmental state. Thus, natural selec-
Aly, *) = 1+ Ss IV, X)Ps(¥, X)lOGss(¥, X) + Oacasl¥, *)), tion may ‘favour genetic and demographic mechanisms that
“ 65 generate genetic variation like positive rates of recombina-

(655) tion, mutation and migration. In fact, environmental
where, dropping the dependence on x and y for ease of variation, particularly over time, is one of the most well
presentation: studied and important factors supporting the evolution of

genotypic and phenotypic variation through mechanisms

cogs = ses — (7 + +o dasotas that promote such variation like recombination (151-153],