negotiation may occur when either or both parties try to reach a more advantageous deal within the bandwidth of acceptable Ss

exchange rates. They can test the waters by trying to take a little bit more or give a little bit less. Such negotiation processes are
essential on markets with traders that cannot communicate otherwise over exchange rates and have no publicly known com-
modity prices expressed in a common currency.

Box 2. Disagreements between the authors Il: R.B.’s view on ‘cheating’ and ‘decision-making’

R.B. uses terminology that is common in the ‘partner control’ literature. Most importantly, R.B. refers to a cleaner taking a bite
of client mucus as ‘cheating’ (or ‘defecting’). As it stands, cleaners make discrete decisions during foraging, where the act of
taking a mucus bite is ‘+’ for self and ‘—’ for the client. Replacing the term ‘cheating’ by ‘stealing’, thereby introducing a new
term for one particular system, could increase confusion rather than clarify the issue. Also, the use of the term ‘cheating’ helps
to emphasize the fact that clients need to exert partner control mechanisms to ensure that cleaners of genus Labroides provide
on average a net benefit rather than a net cost. Without partner control, cheating acts would become so frequent that Labroides
would turn into cheater species. Indeed, there are indications that L. dimidiatus individuals may be parasites of client species
that lack the manoeuvrability necessary to quickly evade a cleaner or to terminate an interaction at will. Roche et al. [43]
observed that poorly swimming pufferfish, Arothron nigropunctatus, jolted in every interaction and in response to almost
every mouth contact by adult cleaners, indicating that the latter do not remove parasites. These fish avoid interactions
with any adult cleaners (they can have very long interactions with juveniles [62]), but may come accidentally into their
reach. Thus, adult cleaners can become net parasites if clients lack sufficient control over the duration of an interaction
[63]. The need for clients to control a cleaner’s behaviour is absent when cleaners prefer to eat ectoparasites over mucus,
as is the case for Caribbean cleaning gobies [64]. As an additional issue, R.B. considers that R.N.’s market terminology
applied to cleaning interactions lacks a mechanistic basis of how animals may make actual decisions. For example, R.B.
doubts that a visitor that swims off after a jolt and switches to a different cleaning station for the next inspection does so
to negotiate exchange rates with its current cleaner but rather because a negative experience alters its preferences. Similarly,