the subset of front-facing images, for a total of 420 instances
(140 images per each category: happiness, neutral and sadness).

expressions from the KDEF dataset (see the electronic supplementary
material for details). Z-scores of blood oxygen level-dependent beta in
the SC for the experimental conditions were compared with robust
Bayesian parameter estimation (RBPE) to yield the complete distri-
bution of parameter values and estimate the posterior probability

(iii) Spontaneous emergence of spatial frequency tuning and that these activities are credibly different [98].

orientation sensitivity
Here, we exploited the fact that the M, P and K pathways engage (v) Other sources of image perturbation
the SC differentially compared to V1 and ventral stream cortices. It is commonly held that biological vision exhibits robustness and
Consequently, SC’s responses are tuned to different ranges of generalizability that is lacking in artificial neural networks. For
spatial frequencies and orientation discriminations that preferen- example, image perturbation with the addition of uniform noise or
tially reflect the M pathway properties. In comparison, the salt-and-pepper (S&P) noise affects object recognition in an artificial
geniculo-striate system has a more balanced contribution from neural network far more than in human observers [99,100]. However,
M and P pathways and can, therefore, process more efficiently there is no evidence on how these types of image perturbations inter-
visual features analysed by either channel. If the retino-SC net- fere with the encoding properties of a network designed to reproduce
work is analogous to the real brain, then it should exhibit the the architecture of the retino-collicular system.
same tuning properties, while differing from those displayed To explore these dimensions, the pattern of response in the
by DNNs that mimic the geniculo-striate system [90-92]. DNN model was also tested with controlled image noise. The

First, we analysed whether selective tuning to LSF and reduced KDEF dataset was processed using a varied set of additive