extraction step because it often improves, quantitatively and tial causes for this overestimation were outlined above in the
qualitatively, extraction yield [28,29,80]. Interestingly, pollen ‘Review of methods’ section (see §2b(ii)).
shares physical and chemical characteristics with algae, an There is growing evidence that besides proteins, lipids are
organism that is extensively studied for biofuel research. Akin an important macronutrient for animals, including bees [5]. For
to pollen grains, algae cells are small and possess a thick and example, lipids influence nutrient regulation behaviour of
complex wall [81,82]. This required researchers to develop tech- bumblebees [71], and can affect learning performance in hon-
niques to disrupt the algal cell wall to release intact lipids and eybees [93]. To assess any differences among methodologies
maximize extraction efficiency [81-83]. When we disrupted for measuring pollen lipid content, we first compared three
Brassica and Rosa pollen grains, we observed two key results. methods commonly used to quantify total lipids in non-dis-
First, the effect of pollen disruption varied depending on rupted pollen. While we recorded similar values for the Folch
pollen type—90% of Brassica pollen grains were disrupted and Loveridge assays, the vanillin assay yielded values lower
after 210 s of homogenization, but after 270 s of homogenization than half those reported for the Folch and Loveridge assays.
only 40% of Rosa pollen grains were disrupted. This finding is This likely reflects the fact that the vanillin assay solely
similar to those by Swenson & Gemeinholzer [80], who measures unsaturated fatty acid content [61,62]. This also
reported extreme variation in pollen wall disruption owing to aligns with our fatty acid analysis, which detected a mixture
species-specific variation in pollen structure, which can vary of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids in both Brassica and
in shape, size and durability [25,84-86]. Other methods to dis- Rosa pollen. These results provide strong evidence that the
rupt pollen, including vigorous overnight vortexing or vanillin assay is a poor choice for researchers interested in
ultrasonication [28,87,88] and different buffers [89], have also quantifying total lipid content. With disrupted pollen, the
been used, but it is not known how effective they are among Folch and Loveridge assays returned significantly higher
different pollen taxa. Second, comparisons of total lipid or values compared with non-disrupted pollen. In addition, and
total fatty acid content between intact and disrupted Rosa similarly to what was observed with the Bradford assay, the
pollen showed no significant difference. This suggests that increased lipid values were observed following pollenkitt dis-
while some pollenkitt types may be difficult to disrupt (ie. ruption in Brassica pollen, but not Rosa pollen. This suggests the
that of Rosa pollen), this kind of toughness is not necessarily cor- pollenkitt of Rosa may be more permeable to solvents than that