ible even if only one will be realized. Great apes—chimpanzees [10-12]. Such questions imply that toddlers can entertain
and orangutans—perform similarly, if not worse. Almost all of ‘open’ possibilities—e.g. the possibility that a missing object
them persist in cupping a single exit across multiple trials. is somewhere even if the actual location remains unknown.
However, their performance may be hampered by the chal- Children’s testimony-guided search, together with their ques-
lenge of adopting a two-handed strategy and/or their tions about location, imply that they are not egocentric. They
susceptibility to a gravity bias, ie. the naive assumption that can represent an invisible object as being somewhere—in a
falling objects will pursue a straight-down, vertical trajectory location that is known to their interlocutor but not to them.
despite the constraints imposed by a sloping tube [4]. Third, 2- and 3-year-olds mark some of their claims as

The evidence for the emergence at around 4 years of age possible rather than actual. Where appropriate, they temper
of the relatively complex, conceptual machinery needed to their assertions with maybe and use modal auxiliaries such
solve such two-possibility or fork problems is convincing [5]. as might [13,14]. They display some sensitivity to the differ-
In this paper, I discuss the antecedents of that emergence. ence between established matters of fact—for example, =
What conception of possibility should we attribute to 2- and where a missing object or person is located and matters of — 5!
3-year-olds, and potentially to great apes, in the absence of possibility—for example, where a missing object person or = >
the capacity for solving fork problems? The ability to conceptu- object might be located. =
alize and plan for mutually exclusive possibilities might Below, these three lines of evidence are laid out in more = &
indicate not just a watershed in the conceptual development detail. The potential cognitive benefits of this early emerging ©
of young children but also a phylogenetic watershed in the capacity to consider and share possibilities, as well as the lack S
comparison of non-human primates and human children. of evidence for an equivalent capacity among great apes, is
Arguably, in the course of human evolution, the emergence then discussed. S
of the capacity to think through such forks or junctures was a iS

major advance, enabling forms of decision-making and contin-
gency planning not found among great apes [2,3]. Indeed, the