Mercabil (OM, binds to the catalytic domain of myosin and metic ligands specific for avB3 and a51 integrins found similar
increases cardiac contractility [23]) (figure 6). spreading for both integrin types with 60 nm inter-ligand spa-

Reducing contractility with blebbistatin or Y-27632 cing but detected further spreading of a5f1 integrins at even
resulted in a significant increase in cell area on IKVAV (but smaller ligand spacings [15].
not on RGD). This result suggests that the adhesions to Little was known about the clustering behaviours of
IKVAV at the specific ligand concentrations employed here fibronectin and laminin integrin subtypes in cardiomyocytes,
are unstable at the existing levels of contractility. Therefore, especially a581 and a7£1 [32,33]. Here, we observed the same
reducing the contractility stabilized adhesions and facilitated 60 nm threshold for RGD-binding integrins. However, unlike
spreading. By contrast, drugs promoting contractility resulted observations in fibroblasts with larger levels of avf3 integrins
in a decrease in cell area on both RGD and on IKVAV functio- and differences in £1 integrin and talin isoforms [21], we
nalized DNA origami nanoarrays. The decrease was stronger found a strong contribution of global in addition to local
with OM and only this treatment showed a significant effect ligand densities and in fact cardiomyocytes were spread
on IKVAV modified surfaces. out to the same extents on similar global concentrations of

Together, these results suggest that cytoskeletal contracti- RGD peptides, independent of the spacing of the ligands
lity, and integrin ligand affinity, need to be well balanced to on each cluster or the distance between the clusters. Intri-
support cell spreading. IKVAV/laminin-binding integrins guingly, for cardiomyocytes, laminin-binding integrins
overall require higher density of ligands to support adhesion required much smaller spacings of approximately 30 nm (or
formation and downstream signalling and hence cannot sup- 12 peptides per cluster) to initiate spreading, compared to

port the contractility of neonatal cardiomyocytes to the same the fibronectin-binding integrins. Moreover, there seemed to


fibronectin: stronger integrin bond; global concentration > local concentration