high-affinity binding, and the other Ds at position 5 is not anti-DEN2-NS1 aptamer, only one Ds base is essential, and &
essential. The anti-DEN2-NS1 aptamer forms a G-quadruplex thus the aptamer could possibly be isolated from all 74 subli-
structure with four G tracts shown by red Gs in figure 1b [17]. braries. In the anti-vWF aptamer generation, we calculated
The success probability of each aptamer generation was the occurrence of the aptamer in the library by a different
estimated from the occurrence of the aptamer in the library, method owing to the use of the DR library (refer to figure 1c
which was determined from the complexity in the initial and electronic supplementary material, figure S4).
library divided by the required number for the aptamer can- The occurrence of the aptamer candidates in the library
didate sequence in each ExSELEX (figure 1c). The required (figure 1c) revealed that the library size used for most of
number for the aptamer candidate sequence, in which at the aptamer generations, except for the anti-DEN1-NS1,
least one aptamer sequence possibly appears, was deter- DEN2-NS1 and DEN4-NS1 aptamers, was too small. How-
mined using the number of essential/important bases and ever, the aptamers were successfully obtained from the
the stem length in each aptamer. The important bases are libraries, suggesting that some factors used for the calculation
indicated in orange-coloured circles in the secondary struc- might not reflect that fact. One of the uncertainties in the cal-
tures in figure 1b. Each important base was estimated by culation is the determination of the important or essential
the data obtained from the second ExSELEX, using doped bases in each aptamer. Thus, we re-evaluated the impor-
libraries for anti-VEGF,65 and IFNy aptamer generation, in tant/essential bases in the single-stranded regions of some
which we chose greater than 96% conservation of bases aptamers, focusing on the anti-IFNy, vWE DENI1-NS1 and
10], or from the conserved sequences in the isolated clones DEN3-NS1 aptamers, by EMSA using a series of sequence
for anti-DEN-NS1 aptamer generation [17]. For example, in variants for each aptamer.
the anti-VEGF;65 aptamer, there are 21 important natural For the assay, we chemically synthesized a variant set for
bases including two stem regions, as well as 2 Ds bases, each aptamer by point transition mutation (A + G, TC) in
and 8 bp, in which any base pairs are acceptable, in the term- the single-stranded regions. We used the optimized sequences
inal and internal stem regions. Thus, the required number for for some aptamers, as shown in electronic supplementary
the aptamer sequences is 4°!*® =2.9x10'7. In the anti- material, figure S3 and tables $1-S4. In the optimization,
DEN3-NS1 aptamer generation, only one sequence in the the terminal stem lengths were extended and the A-T pairs