turnover and the HIV turnover. We find a correlation when lineage large turnover, making the effective number of tests
all the lineage turnovers are considered (middle plot, Ig lineage smaller than actually used in the procedure and leading us
turnover ab), or when only the largest lineage changes are taken to overestimate the corrected p-values. Electronic supplemen-
(left plot, Ig lineage large turnover). The signal disappears if one tary material, ยงS3 discusses this problem using a different
considers only small changes, Ig lineage small turnover, elec- null model generates trajectories that reproduce the internal
tronic supplementary material, figure S3a, a measure that is correlations present within the HIV measures and within the
probably more susceptible to noise. Interestingly, the corre- Ig measures. This test confirms that the observed patterns
lation is negative, as can be seen from the top histograms of are strongly unlikely to be generated by the refined null model.
figure 4, and from the grey density of points of the scatter We then asked if the sign of the correlation depended on
plots. The third significant pair correlates lineage turnover time-interval size at which the populations were sampled.
versus the dN/dS measure of HIV. This group of re-scaled The procedure of selecting only long time intervals decreases
correlations points again towards an anti-correlation. the number of points of the trajectories, leading to fewer stat-
The fact that the correlation between turnovers is negative istics. The p-values do not show significant correlations for
seems counterintuitive. It means that if the composition of the longer sampling times, as shown in electronic supplementary
viral population is changing quickly, the immune repertoire material, figure S3c. However, we cannot conclude whether
abundances are not changing much, while the immune this lack of significance is due to the larger sampling time,
repertoire changes its composition faster when the viral or to reduced statistical power.
population is varying more slowly.
We performed additional tests to verify that the observed (d) The HIV affects the future state of the immune
signals are not caused by spurious effects of the data. A possible
confounding factor is sequencing depth: if the sizes of the HIV system
and Ig samples are correlated for some reason, and one of the We repeated the analysis of ยง3(c) but with a temporal shift to
considered measures is, in turn, correlated with size, a spurious the trajectories. In particular, we computed the correlations
correlation can appear. However, as shown by electronic sup- between the points of the Ig trajectories against the points
plementary material, figure S3a, the number of HIV sequences of the HIV ones, but one step forward in time (Ig time