be recessive). changes as small as 1% in the average reporter gene's
As described in Gruber et al. [21], we titrated EMS exposure expression level, which is much more sensitive than methods
to determine a dose that made recovery of hundreds of mutants such as RT-qPCR or RNA-seq. In Duveau et al. [39], we com-
with altered Prpy3-YFP expression feasible, but predicted few pared YFP fluorescence per unit cell size to the abundance of
mutants would harbour more than one mutation affecting YFP mRNA measured by pyrosequencing [41] and found a
Prpr3-YFP expression. This dose was 75% less than commonly nonlinear relationship caused by saturation of the flow cytome-
used for an EMS mutagenesis screen in S. cerevisiae, with try signal at high expression levels. We corrected for this
exposure time also reduced [21]. Genetic mapping and whole nonlinearity in Duveau et al. [39] and all subsequent papers
genome sequencing have since shown that mutants isolated by using the empirically determined relationship to convert
under these conditions carry an average of 24 mutations, YFP fluorescence to estimated mRNA abundance.
with only one of these mutations responsible for the effects As a complement to the collection of EMS mutants affect-
on Prpy3-YPF expression in 95% of the 43 mutants tested ing Prpx3-YFP expression, we used targeted mutagenesis to
[34,35]. Fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS) was used to generate hundreds of mutant strains with mutations in the
isolate individual cells from mutagenized populations, select- reporter gene’s TDH3 promoter and used the same flow cyto-
ing cells randomly [19] or based on their fluorescence [21]. In metry methods to measure their effects. Initially, we made
both cases, the sorted single cells were deposited onto solid 236 strains each containing a single point mutation that chan-
media, grown into colonies and then used to inoculate liquid ged one of the 241 G or C nucleotides in the wildtype TDH3

cultures, from each of which thousands of cells were promoter to an A or T, respectively, mimicking EMS


(a) (b)

trans-regulators 8
