gambusia at the surface of the sulfidic El Azufre river possibility of micro-habitat differences between the species,
suggests that both species contribute to these repeat waves such as distance to the river bank, use of cover or other
when attacked by avian predators. This fact has been pre- micro-structures, that may have consequences for predation
viously unnoted likely due to the numerical abundance of risk and/or the ASR and diving behaviour. The strong assort-
mollies compared with gambusia (see [34] for a similar obser- edness by species in shoals could be a consequence of such
vation), as well as the very similar body size, body shape and habitat preferences (unless the fish actively prefer shoals
coloration of both species when observed from the with a higher proportion of conspecifics). Thus, we propose
outside the water. future experimentation that aims at elucidating the observed
Gambusia seem to be much more bound to the water sur- species differences in the reaction to bird predation in general =
face than sulphur mollies as they do not leave the surface as well as the use of social information. +
even when oxygen levels are high and no ASR behaviour is Given that collective behaviours are assumed to largely Ss
needed [38]. This surface preference of gambusia is accentu- depend on activity synchronization [53] and coordination, — =
ated by the fact that gambusia respond much less with we might expect shoals with a higher proportion of unre- 5!
diving than sulphur mollies when presented with a simu- sponsive gambusia to be less effective at producing repeat >
lated bird attack. The responsiveness in gambusia was not waves capable of delaying predator attacks or driving preda- =
affected by the presence of diving mollies, which in turn tors off altogether. The predicted relationship between shoal = &
dived less deep when confronted with the predator stimulus species composition and waving performance (in terms of = &
in a_heterospecific context, especially when gambusia wave number but also speed and size) and the consequences S
remained at the surface. First of all we can speculate that for antipredator effects provide exciting directional hypoth- — ~
this is indicative of a species-specific discrepancy in the use eses for future fieldwork in the area of collective behaviour S
of social information, with sulphur mollies being more sus- and its evolution. For example, it is unclear whether sulphur S
ceptible to the actions of their neighbours than gambusia. mollies might discriminate against gambusia shoal members,
Differential responses to avian predation have also been possibly by aggregating in stream areas with higher flow
reported in three-spined sticklebacks, Gasterosteus aculeatus rates in which gambusia might not be able to swim for
[46], where individuals that were parasitized by Schistocepha- long given their lower average maximal sustainable swim-