enters the brain cavity next to the sella turcica. The anterior
course of the ICA from the distal carotid canal into the
brain cavity could not be fully traced in P. burkei owing to

poor preservation in that area. The promontorium of both The early archaeolagine leporid Archaeolagus ennisianus shows
specimens is smooth and no additional sulci were detected. a huge PCF located in front of the jugular foramen between the
In Litolagus molidens (figure 2d-f), the PCF leads into a ectotympanic and petrosal (figure 4). The carotid canal and the
short proximal carotid canal between the ectotympanic and course of the ICA across the promontorium resemble the pat-
petrosal. The posterior rim of the foramen is embraced by a tern observed in the stem lagomorphs under study, i.e. there is
small lamella of the bulla. The course of the ICA across the a shallow sulcus formed in the tympanic surface of the petro-
promontorium cannot be traced completely. Posteriorly, no sal. The skull of A. ennisianus is only partially preserved; thus,
sulcus is present, though it might be obscured by scan arte- the anteriormost course of the ICA into the cranial cavity is not
facts. Anteriorly, the sulcus for the ICA continues into a fully recognizable.
distal carotid canal formed by the petrosal and ectotympanic. All studied extant leporid specimens have a similar pattern
The whole course of the ICA through the ear region in of the osteological features related to the perbullar course of
stem Lagomorpha can be therefore divided into three distinct the ICA in the ear region. The auditory bulla shows a distinct
sections: (1) the posterior carotid foramen leading into a short PCF (for the ICA entrance) that is entirely formed by the ecto-
proximal carotid canal (housing the posterior ICA section) tympanic and located posteromedially to medially in the bulla
between the ectotympanic and petrosal, (2) the middle (pro- (figure 5), in the vicinity of the jugular foramen. The PCF
montorial) section of the ICA, which runs in a sulcus at the opens into a wide carotid canal for the ICA. The proximal
ventromedial side of the promontorium, and (3) a long (posterior) part of the canal is made up by the ectotympanic
anterior section of the ICA, which is completely enclosed by only (apart from Nesolagus timminsi and Pentalagus furnessi),
the surrounding bones (especially the petrosal and ectotympa- whereas the distal (anterior) part runs anterodorsally between

nic) forming a distal (or anterior) carotid canal, before it enters the ectotympanic and the petrosal. Along its course, the