ae

+ reduction of premaxilla and enlargement of septomaxilla.

V2

Figure 4. The newly proposed evolutionary scenario of the premaxilla. See [66] for further details. mx, maxilla; pmx, premaxilla; smx, septomaxilla; V1, ophthalmic
nerve; V2, maxillary nerve. Illustrations courtesy of Hiroki Higashiyama.

alternatively forms the protruded nose in mice [66]. These domain of the maxillary nerve, whereas the medial palatine
facts strongly support the proposition that the main body of process forms in the ventral part of the premandibular
the therian ‘premaxilla’ and the septomaxilla, which has domain, which is innervated by the nasopalatine nerve.
been considered an apomorphic element of tetrapods and The aforementioned facts suggest that the therian ‘pre-
completely lost in therian mammals, are homologous maxilla’ has a dual developmental origin. According to
(figure 4). Although this view may seem radical to anatomists Higashiyama and colleagues’ further histological and immu-
today, it is a revival of the classic hypothesis proposed by nohistochemical studies [76] on mice, echidnas and geckos,
Gaupp [19], who highlighted the septomaxillary contribution the medial palatine process in therian mammals (figure 6c—
to the therian ‘premaxilla’. e) is most likely homologous to the rostral portion of the
Another problem arising from the origin of the therian vomer of nonmammalian tetrapods. Importantly, the therian
‘premaxilla’ is the identity of the medial palatine process of medial palatine process develops in the nasopalatine nerve
the ‘premaxilla’. As reviewed by Wible [73], the medial pala- domain or the vomeronasal region (figure 7). Conversely,
tine process (simply called the palatine process in some the nonmammalian premaxilla develops in the V1 domain,
literature) is the narrow caudal process of the therian ‘premax- particularly in the distributive region of the medial nasal
illa’. The remaining therian ‘premaxilla’ is the so-called lateral ramus, which is one of the V1 branches. In mice, a continuous
body. Although the therian ‘premaxilla’ has been generally aggregate of osteoblasts located in the midline of the pair