
Figure 4. (a) Generalized Robinson—Foulds (RF) distances of NJ (orange), UPGMA (dark blue), parsimony-based (light blue) and molecular-based (green) trees from
the reference molecular phylogeny, compared with the density distribution of distances of a randomly generated sample of 10 000 random trees (purple curve). (6)
Generalized RF distances of trees based on discrete data (red), compared with the above trees reduced to the same sample. ‘pruned’, discrete-based parsimony trees
derived from a larger sample and pruned to the dataset matching the GMM data; ‘subset’, discrete-based parsimony trees derived from a dataset matching the
species in the GMM dataset. (Online version in colour.)

worse in our discrete character-based tree comparisons, relatively conservative [84] basicranium of marsupials and
although these performed better than most GMM-based other metatherians.
trees overall. The intricate topology of the basicranium also highlights
It is possible that evolutionary conservatism of the basicra- the different properties of GMM versus discrete data acqui-
nium—the very feature that makes it a popular choice for sitions, as outlined in the Introduction. Discretization of
discrete character scoring—in fact reduces the phylogenetic morphological characters draws unambiguous distinctions
information reflected in this region. Ina GMM context, a con- between one morphology and another, and is easier when
served or constrained morphology would result in less variability is relatively straightforward to encode (e.g. pres-
available shape variation (as seen in the lower disparity of ence/absence, or single dimension). This is certainly the
the Basicranium compared with the Rest of Cranium partition) case for the basicranium: for example, in terms of discrete
and less freedom for landmarks to vary relative to each other. basicranial characters, diprotodontians are different from per-
The lower phylogenetic signal in the basicranium is also con- amelemorphians, and dasyurids are highly distinct compared
sistent with the expectation that it has highly integrated with didelphids [5]. By contrast, peroryctid peramelemor-
constituent parts that are not free to vary relative to each phians, most didelphids, and Thylacinus share a somewhat
other through evolutionary time. High integration has been similar auditory region in terms of the relative shapes and
shown to substantially reduce phylogenetic signal in simu- sizes of the tympanic processes of the alisphenoid and petrosal

lations [19], and this effect might be particularly strong in the [5] and might therefore be expected to cluster together. Thus,