impact of Moynihan on ideas around nuclearity, and the and may not be a perfect judge of whether cited papers
ambiguities and errors in its representation. The question were read by authors, it gives us a fair idea of magnitude
that follows is whether this is problematic only from the of the problem with citation practice. In addition to this,
point of view of poor citation practice and the inaccuracies review articles are often used as easy substitutes for citing
that are introduced into the historical record as a result, or original papers; original data papers that are cited by reviews
whether it also has real consequences for our understanding are known to get cited fewer times after they get cited by
of nuclearity. Our analysis suggests the latter. There are two reviews [73]. This leads to loss of nuance in the message
core ideas drawn from Moynihan around which referenced that is carried forward from original articles and glossing
statements on nuclearity have coalesced: 1. Nuclear species over details and may further lead to mis-citations. It also car-
play a role in formation and maintaining cohesion of flocks; ries the risk of creating citation bias and distortion by
2. Nuclearity is linked to the possession of certain morpho- reinforcing the authority of papers that support the claim,
logical and behavioural traits. Over time, there has been a thus creating a belief system. For example, Greenberg [13,74]
tendency to assume these ideas as established facts, although studied a claim-specific citation network in biomedical
there has been little empirical evidence in support of them. sciences and found that papers that provide evidence against
We worry that this tendency in turn has stymied further a belief system often do not get cited and fall by the wayside
research on these hypotheses and led to them being treated while the belief gets amplified by citation of papers that
as the foundations on which new research is built. For make the claim without finding evidence to support it
example, we found a number of studies that have designated We think that two practices from the past that have
species as nuclear purely because they possess traits become less popular over the years may hold the potential
that Moynihan thought were linked to nuclearity without for dealing with the problems highlighted above. The first
actually demonstrating the role of these species in formation one is pertaining to the use of footnotes. Footnotes allow
or cohesion. for expanding on the concept in the main body of the article
We believe that the way forward is to go back to treating and detail out the nuance that the original article tried to
Moynihan’s ideas as hypotheses for empirical investigation. convey. The second is the use of quotation marks to specifi-
The first step would be to clarify terminology, i.e. what cally state the claim in the original paper that will reduce