thesis. But it had better be right, because I am planning for Alan Denis picked up the subject, realizing it was time to get into more
Hodgkin to be your examiner.’ There was a slightly ominous detailed scientific questions:
twinkle in his eye. He knew I would be shaking somewhat ‘Well, the outcome of those moves, Dario, is that you
in my shoes. My only consolation was that Otto was ended up in the Oxford laboratory. So, both of us have a
also shaking!’ lot to thank Silvio for. The Oxford laboratory was never the
There was a pause of a few seconds, and Dario realized it was same again! And while we are on this subject of advice to
time for him to add his comments. He began with some hesitation, young people, I want to express something I think all cardiac
appropriate in the presence of this great figure: electrophysiologists feel, which is that you, Silvio, have
“You may remember, Professor, that my first ever scientific inspired the field, not just with your pioneering work, but
visit was actually to your lab in Bern in 1976. You and my also with your personality. You are, without question, the
early mentor Arnaldo Ferroni knew each other, and on Ferro- father of our field, but you also filled that role with a quiet
ni’s request, you had kindly agreed to have me visit. It was gentlemanly presence that we have all admired.’
my great opportunity! In fact, it was also my first seminar, Silvio smiled with his characteristic quizzical look. Denis
even if an informal one. I remember I was absolutely terrified immediately switched back to the science, sensing that Silvio was
to talk in front of Silvio Weidmann and Harald Reuter, who just a little embarrassed:
was also present!’ > “... So, I would like to take you back to 1949. It may be
Silvio nodded slightly: hard for young scientists today to imagine, but there were
“Yes I remember, I was in good terms with your head some very fundamental questions to be answered when it
Arnaldo Ferroni, and I knew he was trying to set up a new first became possible to record intracellular potentials directly
team. In his letter, he introduced you as a bright and deter- with a microelectrode rather than using suction electrodes,
mined young researcher, and I liked the idea of helping which depended on accessing the inside potential by literally
him build a new electrophysiology lab in Milano, working damaging an area where the suction electrode was applied.
on voltage clamp!’ The question that was still in the air was whether, during
Dario felt quite gratified. Weidmann had been kind to him, and electrical activity, the membrane simply depolarizes, in the
he now thought that he could return some of that kindness: way that would happen if there was a general increase in