ISO induced little further change. The expression level of cantly lowers the occurrence of cytosolic calcium alternans. S
Slc8a2 was therefore preserved in the Pakl cKO mice at the With regard to the observed increase in voltage alternans in
same level as Pak1"/" mice injected with ISO. Slc8al the isoprenaline-exposed cardiac specific knockout mice com- = &
expression, conversely, was rather slightly, but significantly pared to WT counterparts, one of the two hypotheses =
decreased in Pakl1 cKO mice atria stimulated by ISO describing the mechanisms of alternans generation suggested
(figure 4e). These data indicate that the constitutive increased that AP alternans may appear as a secondary effect owing to
phosphorylation of CaMKII6 in Pak1 deficient atria induced an alteration in calcium-sensitive electrogenic sarcolemmal
the transcriptional expression Slc8a2 and Slc8a3. Consistently ionic currents during cytosolic calcium alternans [34].
increased expression of Slc8a could lead to a defect in systemic We previously [14] have also observed an increase in SR
Ca** flux through Sic8a and may lead to the production of Ca?* refilling time in Pakl cKO ventricular myocytes when
delayed afterdepolarizations developing arrhythmia in Pak1 compared to WT littermates. This observation along with
deficient mice. slow NCX and SERCA2A kinetics, may imply longer cytosolic
The next question was what makes Slc8a2 and Slc8a3 tran- Ca** transients. In fact, ventricular myocyte experimentation
scription increase? We considered the possibility of CREB1 using total Pak1 KO mice have reported longer Ca’* transient
interacting with the promoter region of Slc8a2 and Slc8a3 recovery time in KO than in WT mice [35]. The two studies,
isotypes. Atria were isolated from Pak1"/" and Pakl cKO although carried out on ventricular myocytes, are in line with
and the question of whether pCreb1 binds to the promoter the longer CaTDs identified in the LA of Pakl cKO mice
regions of Slc8a2 and Slc8a3 was explored through ChIP under baseline conditions in the present study.
assay. As shown in figure 4f, pCreb1 was found to be interact- Our data on RyR2 single-channel recordings revealed that
ing with both of Scl8a2 and Slc8a3 promoters in Pakl cKO channels derived from PAK1 cKO hearts exhibit a markedly
mice, which means that phosphorylation of Camkllé higher Po than channels from control hearts, suggesting an
observed in Pakl cKO mice atria induced phosphorylation increase in cytosolic Ca** sensitivity of RyR2 channels from
of Creb1, which led to an increase in transcription of Slc8a2 PAKI1 cKO mice. This increase in RyR2 activity might have
and Slc8a3. resulted from the higher phosphorylation levels at 52808
