Also, for most species, the relationships of adult survival mate change on populations. For example, ring ouzel and
with winter precipitation was slightly bimodal. This can be alpine accentor show slightly declining population trends,
a result from interactions among adult survival and juvenile both in the breeding bird index and in our projections. How-
survival, which shared minimum winter temperature as a ever, our models indicated that predicted abundance was still
common predictor. These two DCRs tended to be negatively higher then in the no-climate change scenario, implying that
correlated for most species, apart from ring ouzel and alpine both species would experience even stronger population
accentor, which supports this hypothesis. Such a negative declines without recent climate change. Overall, our models
correlation was also found by Dybala et al. [62], who mod- suggested that typical mountain species tend to benefit from
elled the impact of climate change on the demography of recent climate change (without necessarily amounting to posi-
song sparrows in California. Tavecchia et al. [63] showed tive population trends), while lowland species are already
that climate-driven vital rates do not necessarily imply cli- negatively affected by climate change. We do not expect the
mate-driven population dynamics, especially in highly positive effects for mountain species to last far into the future,
mobile species, as trade-offs can mask the changes in under- as climatic changes become more pronounced. In fact, while
lying processes. Further, an example for a potential missing we assessed the effect of contemporary climate change only,
mechanism are negative species interactions [64], which can the vulnerability of Swiss breeding birds to future climate
confound the value of a DCR, especially towards the range change was investigated previously by comparing current cli-
margins. Therefore, we advise that extrapolation to non-ana- matic conditions with those in 2100 [67]. According to these
logue climatic conditions outside the sampled range of predictions, alpine accentor and ring ouzel will suffer strong
training data should only be attempted if the fitted DCRs range contractions until the end of this century. Here, correctly
appear plausible. Importantly, despite limitations in interpret- identified DCRs can help to identify promising avenues for
ability and transferability of individual DCRs, their combined effective management. By explicitly investigating how individ-
effects within the full model simulations were still able to ual demographic rates are affected by climate change, targeted
reproduce the observed abundances and yield moderate to measures can be designed to support these vulnerable
excellent model predictions. Thereby, DCRs facilitate an processes and mitigate climate change effects.
improved mechanistic understanding of the underlying pro- Given the broad impact of climate change on ecological