with regulation 2 in table 1. For simplicity we assume that juven- terms as before.
iles are all the same size (they do not grow) and therefore, the We separated the dynamics of heterotrophic consumers
increase in juvenile biomass is due only to new individuals at (both primary and secondary) into filter feeders and other
a rate controlled by a per biomass adult reproductive rate, ry, consumers. Filter feeders are usually considered basal
multiplied by reproductive adult Lessonia biomass, B,. We con- species because they feed on an external source to the
sidered that if no adult plants are left in the system, no benthic community, ‘plankton’, which is controlled primarily
juveniles are produced (there is no subsidy of gametophytes by advective-hydrographic processes. From the point of
from external sources). Field observations suggest that Lessonia view of the focal community, the plankton represent a
is not significantly affected by competition with other sessile subsidy to filter feeders. So, the filter feeder dynamics can be
species and therefore, maximum production rates is only limited represented as:
by total Lessonia biomass. The passage of juvenile Lessonia into
the adult stage is controlled by a rate parameter P)_.,, which is dBr Br + Ba + By + Bj
set based on the fact that plants reach 20 cm holdfact diameter ad feses(1 ~ AoE] ~ 7 Mabe) ~ fnxrBy .
in about one year. The transformation of juveniles into adult —nsunption — palin maintenance

plants is strongly limited by the presence of adults, Ba, in the
system through the term (1—B,)/Ka, with Ka thus representing
a carrying capacity for adult Lessonia plants. At carrying capacity,
Ka, new juveniles are produced (gametophytes), but cannot suc-
cessfully grow because of shading, whiplash by adult plants, lack
of space and/or nutrients. It is important to note that K, is differ-
ent from the overall carrying capacity of the system K. We used a
different K,, because (i) Lessonia are dominant competitors and
are little affected by competition for space with other species,
and (ii) the mechanisms of interference for space among Lessonia