to extreme climatic events, ecological change and socio-polliti- with all life forms in their territories including the manage-
cal disruptions [11]. These perturbations to reciprocal ment of those relationships by people (table 1; electronic
relationships between people and place have spurred the supplementary material, video S1). For Xaayda, these are
development of governance systems and management prac- referred to as Xaayda Kil Yahdas, for nuuéaanul Nations
tices that have supported social-ecological resilience and they are hawilmis, and for Haftzaqv they are Gvilds, laws
biodiversity over millennia [12-15]. The values-based prin- of the ancestors. These governance principles and laws (and
ciples upon which these governance systems are grounded the societal values they reflect), including respect, responsibil-
provide a lens through which to reconsider, rethink and ity, reciprocity, making things right, interconnectedness,
reframe how we approach, define and conduct biodiversity balance, stewardship and seeking wise counsel, among
science, conservation and management. others, are consistent across these coastal Nations. Yet, each
For more than 12000 years, human societies have been Nation has a unique expression of each governance principle
shaping and sustaining diverse landscapes and seascapes in practice (table 1).
across Earth’s ecosystems [8,16—18]. In fact, the most biodiverse Indigenous governance principles and laws are enacted
areas on the planet, often characterized as ‘natural’, ‘intact’ and and witnessed in public settings, and their persistence is
‘wild’, are those that have long histories of use and steward- recounted and preserved in oral histories, narratives and stor-
ship by Indigenous people [18-20]. This is in part because ies [38] (electronic supplementary material, video S1). While
people have been performing vital ecological functions for mil- such established accounts act as accessible forms of public
lennia, transporting seeds and animals to ensure viable memory, they are also forms of legal precedent that can be
populations [21,22], applying controlled fire to promote biodi- drawn on to legitimately resolve issues in decentralized legal
versity and landscape heterogeneity [23,24], and terracing and orders and specify management protocols (electronic sup-
tilling sediment to boost plant and animal production [25], all plementary material, video S2). Many laws and principles
amid major biophysical disturbances. are often embedded in and learned about through stories
Evidence of this abounds along the Northwest Coast of because Indigenous laws themselves are interconnected
North America. For example, ancient stories and archaeologi- and inseparable (figure 1; electronic supplementary material,
cal data reveal that people living along stretches of the video S3). While Indigenous oral histories are now recognized