In addition, although it is possible to control for potential studies have been conducted on small populations of normal
confounding variables, confounding cannot be ruled out in weight adult participants and so the lack of effects of training
observational studies. on body weight may be explained by several factors, including

whether the training is appropriately targeted at individuals
who might benefit the most, e.g. participants with obesity

6. Strengthening causal inference in and lower baseline levels of performance [79]. Future studies
i i should also ensure that the training is engaging enough to
observational studies maintain adherence [18,19]. It is possible that training may
Causal inference in observational research can be strength- be more effective if it occurs during neurodevelopmental
ened by using methods that exploit genetic information. periods when the brain is maturing. During adolescence, the
These approaches rely on the fact that genetic variation tem- brain undergoes extensive remodelling especially in regions
porally precedes outcomes. Mendelian randomization (MR) associated with higher cognitive functions such as the prefron-
uses genetic variants associated with the factor of interest tal cortex, which means it is sensitive to environmental
(e.g. cognition) to test the hypothesis that this factor increases influences at this point. Hence, future interventions could
the risk of developing a particular outcome (e.g. obesity) [71]. target adolescent populations at high risk of obesity to exam-
Using this method, one study found a causal effect of waist to ine whether training could prevent weight gain [83],
hip ratio adjusted for BMI to impair cognition but did not especially as young people may be more vulnerable to effects
assess the reverse effect of cognition on adiposity [72]. Two of diet and obesity on the brain [84].

studies found a negative causal effect of educational attain-
ment (which may be a proxy for cognitive ability) on BMI

[73,74], whereas another found no causal association between 8 E ff f . h l sue