figure 5a) conformed closely with the compositions of the engage protein leverage more strongly. Our point is that
diets associated with maximum energy intake (figure 3a)— protein appetite, protein leverage and other factors such a
having low-protein and intermediate fat-to-carbohydrate palatability interact, potentially yielding positive feedbacks
ratios. Examination of the separate contributions to energy driving excess energy intake. A difference in energy density
intake of discretionary foods and foods that fall within the between the treatments was not a factor in this experiment,
‘five food groups’ recommended in the dietary guidelines but it too would interact and amplify the effects of protein
showed that the peak in total energy intake was specifically leverage, as discussed above.
associated with high intakes of discretionary foods, with the Having identified the food groups implicated in driving
relative contribution to energy intake of the ‘five food energy over-consumption, the next step is to examine why
groups’ being low in that region of the macronutrient space. these foods are eaten over alternatives that support balanced,
Overall, these results implicate highly processed foods as healthier, diets. Several reasons have been suggested, includ-
drivers of increased energy intake via their effect on protein ing their aggressive marketing, convenience, relatively cheap
dilution and protein leverage, in interaction with factors price and the fact that they are engineered to be ‘hyperpala-
such as palatability and energy density. While there has table’. Such factors can readily be integrated into geometric
been no study that explicitly tested this association in an models, as illustrated in figure 5.

experimental setting, one randomized control trial compared
energy intakes and weight gain associated with a 14-day

exposure to an ultra-processed diet or a whole food diet 5. Moving targets: using protein leverage to
partly matched for macronutrients and presented calories

[98]. Consistent with the population studies, results showed generate new hypotheses

that calorie intakes and weight gain were higher on the pro- Among the benefits of integrative models is that they provide