cious individuals potentially undermine this mechanism of one gamete type, then sporophytes can produce spores of | =
self-incompatibility. This is certainly a subtle issue, but several either or both sexes. Moreover, size dimorphism may evolve = 5'
points are worth noting. First, inbreeding depression is only in both gametes and spores. Heterospory is well known from >
likely to be a problem for diplontic and, perhaps to a lesser land plants, in which micro- and macrospores become male =
extent, haplodiplontic organisms. In haplontic organisms, on and female gametophytes, respectively. The relationship  &
the other hand, inbreeding depression is predicted to be low between such variation and anisogamy is only just beginning
or absent in general [49]. Second, although self-incompatibility to be unravelled theoretically [84]. Future studies could accom- S
is probably important for the evolution of mating types in modate a broader swathe of these diverse life histories in which
many systems, there are also other possible explanations [2]. anisogamy has evolved (for recent examples, see [24,58]). S
For instance, binary ‘lock-and-key’ mechanisms may help Our model was inspired by existing analytic models [19,21], 3
ensure efficient gamete fusion during syngamy [74], although but it identifies evolutionarily stable states using individual-
it is unclear whether such efficiency gains would outweigh the based simulations. Computer simulations have a long history
loss of potential mating partners. The fact that mating types in evolutionary game theory, extending back to the first
exist even in many haplontic organisms suggests that self- formal treatment of evolutionarily stable strategies by Maynard
incompatibility to avoid inbreeding depression cannot be the Smith & Price [85]. The first non-group-selectionist models of
only explanation. Third, even when inbreeding depression is the evolution of anisogamy also relied on simulations [17]
strong, there are many other ways to avoid self-fertilization, and were game-theoretic in spirit, despite slightly predating
including the temporal separation of male and female gamete the formal mathematical framework. Simulations are most
production or release (e.g. ‘dichogamy’ and ‘heterostyly’ valuable when the processes shaping selection and evolution
in plants) [66,75]. Nonetheless, it would be interesting to are complex and not easily captured in an analytically tractable
remove the assumption of binary mating types in future model. For example, when the average size of spawning groups
models and investigate whether this impedes the evolution is small in our model, the size and composition of individual
of monoecious anisogamy from isogamous ancestors. groups is highly variable. Given an average group size of five
It should also not be forgotten that selfing is often adaptive, or fewer, there is an appreciable probability that an individual
even in the presence of strong inbreeding depression. Each will spawn alone or, in dioecious population, in a single-sex