can influence society widely or particular sub-groups and to slavery and other institutions of forced labour [39, p. 15].
populations. Evidence demonstrates that wealthier societies Piketty [41] picks up the long-run path of economic
possess different political values and priorities compared inequality in Europe and North America from the 1800s
with economically precarious ones [33-35]. Likewise, weal- through the late twentieth century. Much of his analysis
thier individuals tend to possess different values, attitudes focuses on the ‘functional distribution of income’, specifically
and behaviours compared with less wealthy individuals the share of income flowing to capital and thus to owners of
[36,37]. Thus, economic circumstances can affect political pri- wealth [41, pp. 18-19]. He presents this mainly in the form
orities much like political priorities can affect policy, that in of the capital/income ratio (K/Y). This ratio will grow as
turn shapes wealth and income distribution. long as the growth rate of capital exceeds the rate of overall

income growth. The long-run tendency in Europe and in the
USA has been toward rising K/Y ratios and thus rising
inequality [41, p. 167]. This tendency is reinforced by the fact

4. The evolution of inequality in the long run that the rate of return to capital is typically greater for those
Empirically tracking the evolution of economic inequality who hold the greatest amounts of capital and who have
and its connection to long-run processes of economic devel- access to the most lucrative forms of investment [41. pp.
opment and political change requires compiling consistent 440-441].
evidence on income, wealth and other metrics for the very The most important periods of reduction in inequality, in
distant past and for diverse geographies. Milanovic [38] Piketty’s view, have resulted from shocks to wealth holding,
takes on the task of pushing our analysis of inequality back rates of return and income growth. Most notably, the period
to the beginning of the Common Era (CE). Much of the evi- from the Great Depression through the middle of the twentieth
dence he employs comes from archaeological findings, for century was marked by sharp declines in the value of property
instance evidence on dwelling sizes, and from ‘social tables’ and financial instruments, the destruction of physical capital,
that combine estimates of average incomes for various reduced saving rates and loss of overseas assets. This era also