Mcells in the MEN ing a Copial Phase. If one were to take the PTW model and __
Ncells in the US Southwest make the minimal modifications necessary to fit it to the =
CMV region between AD 600 and AD 1300, the result 5!
The first proportion will be high when most occupied would be something very similar to V2.8 of the ‘Village’ simu- >
cells are in the maize farming niche, as we expect under lation, with the chief difference being that Village has been =
low populations. This term has a relatively high mean and recast as an agent-based instead of a systems model. In the = &
variance, and is affected primarily by demography and V2.8 version of Village, as in the PTW model, agents (house- =
climate. The second term will be high when climates are pro- holds) are mostly unable to intensify their subsistence >
pitious for maize; it tends to have a lower mean and variance; production, or to progress technologically, though admittedly s
it is sensitive to climate exclusively. Room to walk is simply the even these simple V2.8 agents can tinker with their resource S
difference between the white and black lines in fig. 2c of [19]. mix and their exchange practices to make the best of their cur- S
The purpose for subtracting the second term from the first is rent local circumstances, in contrast to the populations in the
to remove most of the climatic variability from room to walk so PTW model. The fact that households can also exchange
that it is primarily affected by demographic variability. (We with other households even in this simplest version of Village
consider this metric in more detail in [48]. Note that the is already a departure from the insular vision of the members
tree-ring-based measures of maize niche size used here may of the population in the PTW model.
not completely reflect the low-frequency processes portrayed Despite these minor intensifications available to them, the
in figure 1a,b). Decreasing values suggest mounting con- agents in V2.8 very clearly run up against a carrying capacity
straints on ability to find dry-farmable land that is currently threshold around AD 1000 that is similar to the threshold that
unoccupied. As room to walk decreases, duration of house the PTW populations reach at the end of their Copial Phase
occupation (figure 1d) increases; note also the regular decline [51]. Interestingly, the population size at which this ceiling
in room to walk throughout the PII period especially. We sus- is met varies more according to the parameters governing
pect that declining room to walk is the primary driver of the run than does the date at which the ceiling is reached.
increasing duration of house use, though other factors such Once the ceiling is reached, a few V2.8 populations (that is,
as increasing importance of the web of social relationships the simulated households in a particular run) continue a