in the larger northern Southwest. The CMV data have been similarities also underscore dense interconnections across the
periodized using the VEP periods [50] and thus are more Chacoan world [62]. The plausibility of the general model for
temporally precise than the data for the larger Southwest, polity growth in growing populations constructed by [24],
which are periodized by the Explore/Exploit subdivisions which foregrounds the importance of force or threats of
of the Pecos stage scheme developed in [19]. force—coupled with the apparent absence of such strife within

The CMV area and the larger northern Southwest exhibit the Chacoan polity as it was growing, suggests to us that another
comparable levels of wealth inequality (similar to that calcu- important function of the Chacoan system was to suppress
lated for the Hopi pueblo of Oraibi ca AD 1900) until conflict among constituent villages over agricultural land.
about AD 900, when Gini coefficients, driven by the appear- Still, it is clear that people in the CMV did not embrace the
ance of Chacoan Great Houses, increased markedly for the Chacoan system immediately, nor did it grow outside the
northern Southwest as a whole while declining in the CMV. region immediately surrounding Chaco Canyon itself prior
Ginis also increased in the CMV in the mid-1000s, as the to about AD 1030. In fact, the steep decline in CMV Ginis
Chacoan system entered the area, even briefly surpassing just as Ginis across the northern Southwest increased suggests
those of the larger northern Southwest in the early 1100s. that the Chaco model of wealth inequality (and the social /cer-
Wealth inequality returned to low levels in the early 1200s emonial system to which that was presumably coupled) was
in the CMV, but increased to levels beyond that of the actively resisted. It has even been suggested that some popu-
larger northern Southwest by mid-century before both lations in the northern Southwest expanded into the Fremont
declined during the depopulation. For the VEPIIN area, area around AD 1000 precisely to escape Chacoan domination
Kohler and colleagues [61] show a statistically significant [63]. Kohler and colleagues [64] have interpreted an anoma-
tendency for periods with high wealth inequality to be fol- lous blip in violence in the CMV in the late 900s or early
lowed by periods of high violence, and conversely periods 1000s as resistance to initial Chacoan attempts to expand.
of high violence are followed by periods of high wealth Male-biased sex ratios in the CMV in the 1200s coupled with
inequality. Although space prevents us from pursuing female-biased ratios in Chaco and the Aztec (Middle San
these relationships here, they suggest that marked wealth Juan) areas in the 1000s and 1200s have been used to suggest