ff + S

0 200 400 600 0 200 400 600 0 200 400 600 xs
time step

Figure 4. Evolution of inequality (averaged across 500 replicates) as a function of time for different scenarios: (a) a single plain where all polities are connected, (b)
islands where polities within a island are all connected and (c) valleys where polities are organized in stepping stone manner. Examples of such networks
are depicted above the graphs. The parameters used are P = 50, 4z, =0.01, € = 0.25, Gm = 0.05.

is reached and the rate at which inequality evolves. We find happening in the ‘landscape’ of other groups to which it is
that varying the cost of migration does not itself cause vari- connected. Inequality within a polity may reduce due to mis-
ation in the level of inequality in the landscape in the long takes by the leader in setting the level of inequality, or
run. In fact, under all cost of migration parameter values because a leader suffers a revolution and loses power. This
the maximum value of inequality is eventually reached. means that other polities have to align, which on average
What altering the cost of migration does do is to affect the reduces inequality across the landscape. These fluctuations
rate of evolution of inequality—when costs are higher, in the level of inequality proposed by leaders creates a
moving away from more despotic leaders is more difficult, market that forces other leaders to propose a better ‘deal’.
and therefore it takes less time for dominants to impose Importantly, we have shown the counterintuitive result that
greater inequality. The circumscription hypothesis is often this effect happens even if the random variations are equally
framed as explaining why hierarchical, unequal forms of likely to increase or decrease inequality within a particular
organization like the state arose first in some places but not polity. This effect of random variations is in line with the
others [5] (and clarified again in [16]). However, our results economic literature on bargaining games, such as ultimatum
draw attention to the effect of limits to migration as a more games. Similar to our results, models and laboratory exper-
general process that may affect the rate at which inequality iments of such games have shown that unfairness usually
develops. Quantitative comparative analyses of historical evolves, but that uncertainty and errors will limit unfair