Figure 5. Observed mean log-income for specific ages, stratified by sex and kinship systems with corresponding model predictions of means (lines) and 89% highest
posterior density interval (coloured regions) from the log-linear model component among Mosuo overall. Model estimates apply for individuals with high levels of
education and fluency in Mandarin. (Online version in colour.)

education has been mandatory for all Chinese citizens. Thus, matrilineal women systematically over-reported their incomes
studies that fail to consider household contexts may miss and matrilineal men under-reported theirs for cultural reasons
important contributions to contemporary inequality, including (and this gender-based reporting pattern were reversed under
gendered forms that may be more or less likely to be trans- patriliny), it could create the same patterns we observed. If this
mitted in the context of Chinese-speaking households. For were the case, the true inequalities could be less in patriliny and
example, education is generally shown to promote gender more in matriliny than we concluded. Women were frequently
equality, but parental Chinese fluency might do the opposite respondents in both matrilineal and patrilineal contexts, how-
if it acclimatizes individuals to surrounding patriarchal ever, so that seems an unlikely source of systematic bias. The
values. The fact that younger cohorts of both men and analyses we describe present gender differences in wealth
women in matrilineal and patrilineal areas were more likely acquisition in patrilineal and matrilineal contexts, rather than
to obtain education than their elders may herald future changes describing differences between men and women in the same
in gender equality and social values among Mosuo. These are household. The latter would be an interesting extension of
important questions for future research. the present research, and might also reveal differences in bar-

This paper is subject to a number of important limitations. gaining power for women and men under different forms of
The data are self-reported, which may introduce reporting post-marital residence [106]. In the Mosuo case, women often

biases reflective of underlying cultural norms. If, for example, co-reside with their brothers, whose motivations for conflict


and cooperation differ from those between husbands and