keys was in the waveform shape and time course. The ited vertical components, they all differed from each other

oscillation initially occurs at a higher frequency for the in waveform, whereas in the humans this signal was not


necessarily larger but its timing and waveform were more across an assortment of target locations, saccade magnitudes

consistent across individuals. The net result is that when aver- and saccade tasks. The EMREOs dependence on horizontal
aging across individual subjects, the vertical signal actually eye displacement exhibits a higher oscillation frequency in
appears smaller in the monkeys than in the humans. It is monkeys than humans, but a similar pattern is not seen for
unclear why the constant and vertical components show the vertical dimension and the significance of this aspect of
this inter-individual variability within monkeys or variability the signal is therefore unclear. A portion of this observation
between the monkey and human groups. may simply reflect the fact that phase-resetting of the

To a degree, the faster time course of the monkey EMREO EMREO occurs at saccade offset, and monkey saccades are
compared to humans may relate to the faster time course of shorter in duration than human saccades. Put another way, if
monkey saccades combined with the known phase-resetting the period of the EMREO oscillation is roughly proportional ==
associated with saccade offset. As shown in figure 3a,b, the sac- to saccade duration, the systematic differences in saccade dur- 5
cades of the monkeys were shorter in duration than those of ation between monkeys and humans could account for this = =
the humans (black versus purple versus green versus orange finding. However, it is unclear why a similar pattern is not >
bars at the top of the graphs). It is known that monkeys clearly observed in the other aspects of the EMREO such as __
make faster saccades than humans (compare findings in the vertical and constant components. Differences in the reson- =:
[33,35-37]), and this was true in our participants as well. ance properties of the eardrum or associated structures could 5!

In sum, our findings indicate that the dependence of the also contribute to these frequency/shape differences. a