
GK &

B/P D/T G/K B/P D/T G/K
percep resp percep resp percep resp

Figure 4. Perceptual response fractions (a—c) and perceptual confidence (df) for auditory B/P, visual G/K and McGurk stimuli. (a) Response fractions over ‘B/P’, ‘D/
T and G/K’ percepts (top) and associated perceptual confidence (bottom) separately for auditory B/P stimulus (a,d), visual G/K stimulus (b,e) and McGurk stimulus
(ie. auditory B/P and visual G/K; (cf)). In all figure components, bar plots show across subjects’ means and box plots indicate across subjects’ median response
fraction with first and third quartiles and with whiskers indicating the minimum and maximum subject values. (Online version in colour.)

Moreover, because the variance of the posterior distribution performance. This metacognitive insensitivity arises from the
of the audiovisual distribution is smaller or equal to that of fact that the six response options are spanned by the place of
either unisensory posterior distribution, we would expect articulation (e.g. B versus D versus G) and the voicing (i.e. B
participants to be more confident on audiovisual congruent versus P) dimensions. While the visual modality is very infor-
than unisensory conditions. Indeed, in line with these predic- mative about the place of articulation, it is uninformative about
tions, we observed an increase in perceptual accuracy and the voicing dimension. Hence, the vast majority of errors are
confidence for the audiovisual congruent relative to the uni- ‘voicing errors’ such as misclassifying a Ba as a Pa stimulus.
sensory conditions (figure 3a,b; electronic supplementary As shown in the electronic supplementary material, figure
material, table S1A-B). Performance accuracy increased S2, observers were at chance (i.e. approximately 50% correct)
significantly for audiovisual congruent relative to both audi- when discriminating between voiced (e.g. Ba) and the corre-
tory and visual conditions. Likewise, perceptual confidence sponding unvoiced (e.g. Pa) visual stimuli. When observers
increased significantly for audiovisual congruent relative to perform a task at chance, it is impossible for them to metacog-
visual (but not auditory) conditions. The electronic sup- nitively discriminate between correct and incorrect responses.
plementary material, figure S3 further shows that this So, observers’ incapacity to discriminate between voiced and