file, though they were not as clear cut, in part owing to the [54,58], followed by a fused estimate in posterior association
intrinsic noise of the measure. Please note that RTs and brain regions [54,57], 100 ms to 260 ms [54,58], and finally
theta were measured in different studies with slightly differ- the computation of the causal inference estimate that would
ent protocols to protect from the trivial interpretation that involve anterior regions starting as soon as 200-300 ms [59]
theta power and RTs are often correlated in perceptual (timings vary between studies [54,58]). The observed peak
decision-making tasks and cannot be disentangled (but see of theta in our study would fall between the timing of the
[55]). Here, theta power was estimated in a fixed delay generation of the fused estimate and the generation of the
period between the stimulus and the prompt for response. causal inference estimate. This timing fits well with the idea
Under these conditions, we observed a robust significant that the origin of the conflict signal is the arbitration between
increase in theta power after incongruent compared to con- internal causal models, prior to the emergence of the final
gruent trials (figure 5a), that was specific for the theta band multisensory estimate. Because of this timing profile, and

(5-7 Hz) (figure 6c) and originated from a fronto-central the fact that fm-theta was not just proportional to disparity


(despite the differences between disparities were not signifi- in our study. How both the active inference and the intrinsic

cant, the highest theta power was found at the intermediate multisensory values can affect the current study is uncertain.
disparities), we argue that theta might reflect the competition Considering the simplicity of our study, with beeps and
between the causal models, occurring right before the flashes, these aspects might not have an important role (as
perceptual decision that best explains the sensory event. they might have in real-world environments, where multisen-
Previous studies addressing theta power and/or ACC sory objects carry meaning, affordances, and expectations).
activity in multisensory paradigms generally achieved results Despite that, these aspects could be considered for the
compatible with the present ones and could be interpreted design of future studies. Finally, another limitation to bear in
within our proposed intersensory conflict view. For example, mind for future studies (and perhaps for the interpretation