orbitofrontal cortex; similarly for thalamic nuclei such as the LP nucleus) and neither is there a set of full connections between higher visual areas and V1 on display.
Note that many, but not all, of the connections to V1 have been shown to be reciprocal (if not, higher visual areas are projecting back; e.g. [17]). V2 comprises the
subareas P (posterior), LI (laterointermediate) and LM (lateromedial). AL, anterolateral; RL, rostrolateral; A, anterior; AM, anteromedial area; dLGN, dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus; PM, posteromedial area. (b) Schematic of the extended visual system as hypothesized for the human brain. ‘Photically driven cortex’ is used here
instead of ‘visual cortex’ to emphasize that vision is not intrinsically coded in the occipital lobe, but arises in interaction with other areas. Not all relevant non-visual
areas are indicated here; the strength of connections is less well known than for rodent or macaque brains, although the connectivity patterns are generally sup-
ported by diffusion tensor imaging, functional connectivity and dynamic studies (e.g. [157,158]). PFC, prefrontal cortex; PPC, posterior parietal cortex; MTL, medial
temporal lobe memory system.

goal-directed behaviours (cf. [160]) as opposed to reflexes and (cf. [16,169]). A similar argument applies to the effects of
automated stimulus-response habits that can be executed with- motivational and emotional memory systems (centred on
out conscious vision [161,162]. However, this characterization the amygdala and connected areas such as orbitofrontal
should not distract from the fact that visual experience can, cortex) on the visibility, salience and discriminability of
in certain cases, become dissociated from overt behaviour, stimuli [170,171]. Related to these effects, the influences
such as in visual imagery during rest and immobility, blind- of reward, reinforcement learning and basic homeostatic
sight [163] and in immobilized but conscious patients drives (e.g. hunger) appear to be sufficiently pervasive
(suffering from e.g. paralysis or locked-in syndrome). [70,172] to affect visual and other sensory microcircuitry
To illustrate the question of visual tasking further, let us directly, e.g. by altering feature tuning properties (cf.
consider the example of the recognition of camouflaged, par- [74,75,138,173]) and not only via distal connections (e.g. from
tially occluded or other poorly visible objects. Classically, this frontal to visual cortex).
is approached from the angle of Gestalt psychology, where Also, cortical regions causally linked to non-visual sen-
Gestalt cues such as common motion and contour continuity sory modalities can be considered to form satellite nodes
are used in a bottom-up fashion to achieve figure-ground contributing to the extended visual system—especially if
segregation [164]. However, if the visual field under scrutiny changes in these modalities are associated with, or predictive
contains a familiar object, memorized knowledge about of, changes in visual inputs (cf. [43,44,46,174]). Many