diversity (Shannon and Evenness) was significant in phase 2 For instance, the aboveground effects could be different from
but not accompanied by any significant loss in species richness the belowground effects [61], and changes in the root-to-
[34]. The microbial and soil fauna responses that we recorded shoot ratio [62] or mycorrhizal associations and related func-
typically respond rapidly to abiotic and biotic changes. Yet tions can change in stressed plants [63], as well as the
changes in the plant community composition and plant diver- quantity and quality of rhizodeposition [64]. In addition,
sity may take longer to materialize than those tested in this studies showed that belowground responses could be delayed
Ecotron study. By contrast to plant diversity, plant biomass for several weeks [65,66]. Therefore, follow-up studies should
was associated with changes in three measured variables not only integrate soil organisms and functions to better
(basal respiration, microbial biomass, and the channel explain the consequences of ALAN but also potential delays
index), but only in phase 3 and only when ALAN was high. in belowground responses to better explain changes in
Thus, we detected the direct effects of ALAN earlier (in above- and belowground community structure, ecosystem
phase 2) than the plant-mediated ones (phase 3), the phase functioning, and stability.
without direct ALAN effects. The fact that we found these We further hypothesized that different levels of ALAN lead
effects on microbial parameters and the channel index could to changes in the structure of soil microbial and nematode com-
indicate altered nutrient dynamics, e.g. due to changes in munities. We did not find any significant changes in the soil

exudate quality and quantity. This may also suggest that microbial community structure caused by different levels of


ALAN, while the microbial community changed significantly systems [70]. Our study showed that terrestrial ecosystem
over time in our experiment. This is in contrast to the commu- responses can, however, only be answered comprehensively
nity data of soil nematodes, where a significant effect of ALAN when including the soil system.

was found, as well as a marginal interaction of PHASE and
