linked to these cycles (in animals and humans) are reactive pro- or EB regulation are likely to be more tenuous and complex
cesses of learned habitual behaviours and responses to than is sometimes assumed. Perhaps one of the key limitations
environmental (e.g. food availability, palatability) and somatic of macronutrient-specific models that propose peripheral
cues such as stress and emotional reactivity. This central axis physiology exerts powerful unconditioned negative feedback
shapes the architecture of eating behaviour (i.e. selection and on eating behaviour and hence EI, is that they underestimate
consumption of different foods), which in turn influences EB the complexity of behaviour.
through the effects of eating behaviour on EI. The diagram Because a great deal of human behaviour is both reactive
acknowledges that components of the system exert feedback and learned, it is possible that the environment can produce
to influence both cycles of goal-oriented eating behaviour prompts, cues and stimuli that influence learned patterns of
and the prompts and cues that influence reactive components motivation to eat, e.g. [112]. It is frequently stated that the
of eating behaviour, which are not necessarily within the ready availability of cheap, highly palatable, readily assimi-
realm of conscious awareness or control. Finally, and perhaps, lated, energy-dense foods is a major factor responsible for
often with less influence than we would hope, are strategies of obesity development in modern environments. In fact, these
behaviour change, which involve cognitive modification are several factors which characterize the nutritional environ-
of beliefs, attitudes, intentions and plans, aimed to reshape ment of modern humans and several potential mechanisms
eating behaviour. Those strategies may be less effective if which may affect El. The ED and macronutrient composition
they oppose reactive and/or homeostatic and hedonic factors. of foods has received considerable attention because many
This schema assumes that homeostasis and hedonics are often theoretical models of EB regulation are based on feedback
aligned, owing to the asymmetry of EB regulation. For from the macronutrient composition of foods, energy stores
example, over-eating energy-dense foods which are highly or expenditure. Availability, palatability, ED and assimilabil-
palatable (often because they are energy-dense) is an example ity (fast versus slow foods) of foods should have little
of goal-oriented, motivated appetitive behaviours functioning impact on macronutrient-based negative feedback models if

as they would be designed by natural selection in a resource those models exert a powerful effect on EI. However, in a
