
their closest lobe-finned (sarcopterygian) relatives, the stem
tetrapods (figures 1b, 2a). Stem tetrapods are all tetrapodo-

morphs more closely related to tetrapods than the ancestral (b) How to study vertebrate feeding?
sarcopterygian lungfishes (Dipnoi). Tetrapods can be further Vertebrate feeding proceeds in complex cycles of alternating
subdivided into early tetrapods and the extant groups of lis- and coordinated mechanisms [64-67]. The general mechan-
samphibians and amniotes (including lizards and their allies ism of vertebrate feeding may be broken down into a
(sauropsids) and mammals (synapsids)). Early (crown) preparatory phase (i. detection, and in predatory ver-
tetrapods belong to the stem groups of lissamphibians and tebrates, stalking), the kinematically described feeding
amniotes, which lack derived traits that qualify them as sequence (i.e. ingestion, intraoral processing, transport and
either. The critical phylogenetic position of stem and early swallowing) and the post-oesophageal phase (i.e. digestion
tetrapods and the fact that members from both groups have and excretion) (see the example using the feeding behaviour
been suggested to have lived amphibiously [50] renders of Necturus in figure 3a). Comparative studies have primarily
them prime candidates for studying the evolution of tetrapod focused on the feeding sequence, which can be analysed and
feeding across the water-to-land transition. compared using biomechanical methods [68-70]. In most ver-
Extant phylogenetic bracketing approaches are often used tebrates, this feeding sequence involves the acquisition (i.e.
to infer the likelihood of unknown traits in organisms based ingestion), mechanical preparation and deterioration (i.e. pro-
on their position in a phylogenetic tree [51,52]. However, ver- cessing), passing through and around within the oral cavity
tebrate feeding behaviours are varied and complex, and the (ie. transport) and pharyngeal emptying (i.e. swallowing)
behaviour of an extant species cannot be explained solely of the food [71]. The sequence of these steps or stages can

by its position in the phylogenetic tree nor by other known vary, for instance, as transport and orientation of the food

