[212-216]). Insisting on the materiality of learning and considering cognitive functions as established through movement and
exploration, the MM is compatible with a variety of 4E approaches. The distinctive contribution of the AIF is to show, in rich
formal detail, with established mappings onto brain structure and function, exactly how it is that these cognitively important
environments and interactions do their work. What the AIF gives us is a detailed framework for interpreting these effects in
terms of the minimization of prediction errors by action, the tuning of precision, the role of affect and interoceptive feedback
and the automatic shifting between exploit/explore dynamics (e.g. [217,218]).

Manufactured learning environments that leverage exploratory behaviours and facilitate manageable prediction errors are
then fundamental when we turn to imagine the implementation of different, by definition, disembodied artefacts such as LLMs.
LLMs’ potential impact on education has generated a variety of responses, from fear to enthusiasm to immediate applicative
attempts in a variety of contexts (e.g.[219-225]; for a summarizing commentary, see [30]). If it seems clear that LLMs are here
to stay and their integration in education is not challenge-free, then ‘a clear pedagogical approach with a strong focus on
critical thinking and strategies for fact checking are required’ ([30], p. 1). That is, it isn’t enough to simply have LLMs lying
around, using them to produce and spoon-feed information on command. Their functions, strengths and limitations need to be
overseen in a structured way, since—as disembodied entities—LLMs ‘are fundamentally incapable of understanding people's
embodied interactions’ [226]. While it is beyond the scope of the space remaining to really do justice to the question of how
LLMs might, or should, feature in classrooms, it’s worth signposting some considerations about their potential adoption as
part of the ‘prepared environment’ and linked to the irreplaceable role of the teacher. Teachers, specifically within the MM,
act as mentors: they organize, watch over, communicate and (most importantly) collaborate with pupils in their exploratory
behaviours, intervening as little as necessary (e.g. [227—231]).

According to the motto of Montessori’s schools: ‘Help me in doing by myself’, teachers do not correct, or do for the children,
but accompany them in learning how to correct their own mistakes, relying on embodied capabilities and personal interests
104]. With this in mind, LLMs could be powerful educative ‘tools’ (sensu [187]) in the hands of teachers, augmenting the
growing skilled capabilities of children (e.g. [232-234]). Here’s an example of how this might look: as a child is engaged in a