
cultural anthropology tends to refer to the phenomenological fact of having a body rather than the physiological consequences
of patterned practice (e.g. [101]).

One reason is that some anthropologists probably fear, once the ‘black box’ of physiology is opened, it will be difficult
to preserve anything ‘cultural’ in a biological account. What the close analysis of mechanisms of embodiment in freediving
suggests, by contrast, is that examining the organic consequences of skill acquisition demonstrates instead that enculturation
goes deep into the body. Patterned practices affect the nervous system, muscles, connective tissue and functioning of our
organism. The mechanisms through which physiology enables cultural expression and through which patterns of practice
canalize phenotypic plasticity turn out to be widely varied, multi-directional, operating on a variety of time scales and variably
accessible to reflection or intentional action.

In fact, gaining expertise in freediving can be likened to a succession of stages in which practitioners’ growing proficiency
exposes their bodies to more stressful environments and new adaptive challenges. Earlier progress, whether changes in
technique, altered perceptions or blunted neurological responses, set up more severe environmental conditions within which
further physiological adaptations arise. In other work on cultural canalization of neuroplasticity, this process has been called
a ‘behavioural-developmental spiral’ because alterations occur at multiple levels, from the volitional and perceptual to the
behavioural and physiological [27,28]. A changed perception, like diminished reactivity to hypercapnia, for instance, might
allow a diver to extend breath holds, provoking more severe bradycardia or elevating hypoxic stress, possibly leading in
the long term to enlargement of the spleen. In this model, ‘cultural embodiment’ is not a one-way process, but the complex
dynamics that induce and maintain patterns of human phenotypic variation from the plasticity in us as organisms.

Rather than partition the influences on phenotypic expression between environmental and behavioural factors, I stress
that they are intertwined from the start. Cultural anthropologists interested in embodiment have done a remarkable job of
documenting the broad diversity of bodily practices; these cultural practices are part of the developmental niche within which