variable than what was first estimated owing to biological variability in N:P proportions [11]. Starting in the 1950s, observa- © =
tions of phytoplankton blooms and temporal successions in the environment led researchers to posit that physical parameters © 5
and the availability of inorganic nutrients could not fully explain successions of very close species, but that other growth factors = =
such as vitamins, which may be organic and provided by other members of the community, could be important as well [12]. =
In addition, the role of phytoplankton in the ecosystem is further complicated owing to the presence of mixotrophy (see Box

1), which expands the traditional view of purely phototrophic phytoplankton [13]. Mixotrophy covers: (i) phytoplankton taxa =
capable of phagotrophy of bacteria and small protists, (ii) phytoplankton species living in symbiosis with a heterotrophic host — 3'
(photosymbioses), and (iii) ‘heterotrophic’ organisms that can temporarily retain functional chloroplasts from their ingested a

algal preys (kleptoplastidy). The efficient recycling of organic and inorganic nutrients in these trophic modes can providea = 4
critical advantage under oligotrophic conditions.
Furthermore, many microbial plankton are in fact unable to synthesize some of the compounds necessary for their growth, — w
in which case they are termed ‘auxotrophic’ for the metabolites concerned. Very often, the missing compound is acquired = s©
by exploiting the resources produced by other organisms in the community, or ‘ectocrines’ (see Box 1). This non-predatory, | &
mutualistic association among community members is designated as cross-feeding or syntrophy. More generally, we observe =
what we call ‘labour division’ between microbial members of complex communities, where the different partners are in close =
metabolic interaction through the exchange of one or more metabolic compounds, in a relationship that is often mutually
advantageous for all partners. In this way, the Black Queen Hypothesis [14] emerged as a concept explaining evolutionary forces
driving genome sizes in microbes. It is based on the observation that some important metabolic functions are not encoded by
organisms that need them, while they display large population sizes. Hence, there must be a selective advantage outweighing
the cost associated with the loss of function. In the context of complex communities, such as what we observe for marine
plankton, some '‘helper' individuals that do not necessarily account for large proportions of the population remain able to
provide the important metabolic function to the majority, the ‘beneficiaries’. The said metabolic function must however be easily
accessible to the community members, or ‘leaky’. In other terms, the beneficiaries have a selective advantage, induced by a