*g in the number of the cups; at the terminations only one or two cups may be found,
= but they are apparently as perfect as, though less regular in form than, the cups at
a the centre of the spindle.
S The size and form of the cups can be readily determined by means of thick
= sections of the fresh organ, or by teasing portions of an organ which has been
*§ macerated in nitric acid. In teased preparations it is often possible to study
2 completely isolated cups. When a dozen or more cups are under observation, it is
1 at once evident that, although they all resemble each other, there is over all a
8 considerable amount of variation both in shape and size. Some of the cups are
“= comparatively shallow, while others are both wide and deep; it is possible that the
“8 shallow ones only differ from the others in being less fully developed. One of the
~ most regular and common forms is represented in fig. 3. It will be noted that this
©’ cup is of a considerable size, so large, in fact, that it does not necessarily follow, as
% I originally supposed when studying the organ of R. radiata, that organs made up
= of cups have been arrested in their development. In describing the development of
€ the organ in 2. batis, I mentioned that the discs passed through an indistinct cup
‘ stage, but the cup in 2. batis, instead of becoming deeper, has its margin everted to
8 form, first, a mushroom-shaped structure, and, eventually, a large flat disc.
S In R. circularis and others, however, as will be afterwards described, exactly the
§ opposite changes set in; the head of the original muscular club is moulded as it
A increases in size to form a thin-walled cup, from which the posterior part of the
muscular fibre projects in the form of a long or short stem. At first one is apt to
suppose the cups must be far less effective than the discs. Whether this is the
case or not has still to be determined, but it does not necessarily follow; for, if
the superficial area of such a cup as is represented in fig. 3 is compared with the