many ; thus, those of the sacral ganglia reach even to brachial and to bulbar seg-
ments. As regards the so-called surface origin of the sensory spinal root, it is not
very uncommon to find filaments of the hinder of two nerve-roots crossing filaments
from the root next in front, demonstrating to the naked eye the insufficiency of the
surface origin of the root to serve as criterion of segmental position, ef: infra, p. 145.

It is the position of the ganglion, and not that of the so-called spinal “origin,” that
is the key to the segmental position. In other words, the situation of the nerve-cells,
not that of the nerve-fibres, marks the segmental position of the sensory nerve. Grow-
ing out from the ganglion-cells, its fibres wander distally into skin and muscles, and
these trespass, as I have pointed out, considerably beyond the limits of their proper
metamere, for they considerably overlap. Centripetally they extend even more
boldly into regions outside their original metamere, in fact, into segments quite remote.
A similar arrangement exists in motor nerves, but I* and A. S. F. Grinsaumt
have pointed out that the region of spinal origin of the fibres of a motor root, unlike
that of the sensory root, is of strictly local extent in the spinal cord, confined to one,
its own, segment. That is to say, the seat of the motor cells of the segmental nerve
is, like that of the sensory cells of the segmental nerve, not pluri-segmental, but confined
to one, the original, segment. The nerve-cells of a metamere do not wander beyond
the confines of the metamere in which they arise, but the nerve-fibres rising from
them are eventually in great part thrust quite beyond the confines of the original
metamere. This trans-segmental trespass of the nerve-fibres is comparatively slight
in the skeletal musculature of the trunk, distinctly greater in that of the limbs,
especially at the free apex of each limb, greater still in the sensory structures of the
skin, and yet greater in the distribution of efferent fibres to the vertebral ganglia of