pith has lost its continuity with the external cortex. In Osmunda regalis and Todea
barbara we find that the medulla has become still further modified and only betrays
its morphological nature by the occasional occurrence in it of brown sclerifications,
for in these cases the medulla no longer communicates with the cortex through the
Sramular gaps. In Osmunda claytoniana and Todew superba all histological resem-
a blance between the medulla and cortex has been lost. If the above conception is
correct, O. cinnamomea, O. regalis, and QO. claytoniana form a series of degeneracy
gin which O. cinnamomea is most primitive and O. claytoniana most. specialised.
Sit i is interesting to note in this connection that Camppett, from his study of the
S gametophyte, has reached the conclusion that O. cinnamomea is more primitive than
& O. claytoniana.
Ee But if the hypothesis presented in the last paragraph be considered to be the most
spreasonable explanation of the anatomical facts, it leads us somewhat further. Very
‘4 striking features of the large proportion of specimens of O. ciimamomea, in which pith
Sand cortex are obviously one, morphologically, are the presence of internal sieve-
tissue, and the frequent communication of internal and external endodermal layers
‘3 through the foliar gaps, as well as the ramular ones. In other words, there is an
obvious tendency in what may be regarded as the most primitive condition of the
8 S central cylinder in the existing Osmundacez to approximate the polystelic type of
S Van Tiecuem. If we admit that in Osmunda we have to do with a reduced and
= specialised polystelic central cylinder we at once have the explanation of other
g peculiar features. De Bary, Russow, and Zenerri have all described the continuous
& mantle of phloem which encircles the tracheary strands of O. regalis. In this, as
8 well as the peculiarly American species, the phloem forms deep bays between the
§ strands of xylem. This feature is so remarkable that SrraspuRGER has been led to