contact. In conversation with me he put forward the further idea that possibly the
apparently hollow blastula, wherever it occurs, is really traversed by strings of
protoplasm, and that the blastoccele or segmentation cavity is really to be
regarded as consisting of a few enormous vacuoles essentially similar in character
to the vacuoles found in ordinary protoplasm. With a view of testing these
hypotheses, sections were made of various stages in the segmentation and of
the blastula (see fig, 12, Plate 9), and it at first seemed as if Sepawick’s ideas
were confirmed, for between the various segments of the egg a deeply staining
reticulum was found, and the interior of the blastula was filled up with a dense
reticulum. When, however, the living blastula (fig. 15, Plate 9) was examined
under a high power nothing of this reticulum could be observed, but in place
thereof certain protoplasmic strings were observed connecting the first-formed
mesenchyme cells with each other and with the wall of the blastula. When the fact is
borne in mind that anything which, like Miiller’s fluid, contains chromic acid, and
even alcohol itself, are known to precipitate from proteid solutions a coagulum which has
often a reticulate form, we shall be driven to conclude that in the interior of the
blastula and in the crevices between the segments of the egg there is a fluid proteid
which may be compared to the yolk in larger eggs. Whether this fluid proteid is in
any essential point different from living ptotoplaany whether in other words it is
the seat of metabolism—is a question whose answer we do not know. As develop-
ment proceeds, however, this proteid solution becomes thinner and thinner, as will be
seen by a glance at figs. 13 and 14 (Plate 9), which portray sections through the
gastrula stage and the stage in which the ccelom is formed respectively. In fig. 14,
the coagulum has almost if not quite disappeared, for many of the strings traversing
the blastoccele which are shown in that figure do not consist of coagulum, but