a the top stem-joint is seen lying immediately under the underbasals, and the closing
B point of this ring-like joint, still faintly indicated, marks the radius C, which, of
iE course, can also be determined by following the series of sections. One of the previous
& sections is indicated by a dotted line, in order to make the positions of the radii more
2 evident. We now see that the arrangement of these plates is still the same as in the
§ earlier stage, the smallest plate being in the radius A. At a slightly later stage these
= three plates fuse with one another and with the top stem-joint, so as to form one large
% plate, which is represented as seen from the aboral side in fig. 52, and in side view in
2 fig. 53. It will be seen that, though the sutures of the underbasals still persist, the
2 plates themselves have grown out into five angles. These angles are radial in position,
| EB fitting in between the bases of the basal plates; and, while the underbasal of the
2 radius A produces only one angle, each of the other two grows out into two angles:
3 this fact strongly suggests that each of these larger underbasals represents a pair of
3 coalesced plates, and that the primitive arrangement would be the possession of five
& radial underbasals. At a slightly later stage the sutures disappear, though the groove
é separating the underbasal series from the top stem-joint persists for some time. The
z whole large plate thus formed has always been regarded hitherto as a simple centro-

dorsal, whereas, in reality, the top stem-joint, forming only the lower half of this
large plate, is the true centrodorsal. But, though agreeing in regarding this large
plate (underbasals plus centrodorsal) as a simple centrodorsal, previous writers have
differed somewhat as to its mode of origin. Wvyvitte THomson described it as a
modification of the top stem-joint, but suggested that it represented “a coalesced
series of nodal stem-joints in the stalked Crinoids” (21, p. 536); and this view
was adopted by W. B. Carpenter (10, p. 737). Gérrn, however, regards it as