geneous in character, or slightly fibrous, and would appear to be a softer, less con-
centrated variety of the normal chitin, Another kind of pale chitin, however, is
sometimes met with, which exhibits a distinctly vesicular structure, the meshes of
the sponge-work being occupied by rounded nucleated cells (¢.g., Lyonsiella papy-
qacea, fig, 54, p. 267, Huciroa eburnea, fig. 56, p. 270, and the principal filaments of
vidacna elongata, fig. 37, p. 246).
4 In effecting a comparison between the gills of Lamellibranchia and those of other
ollusea, one naturally selects such a form as Nucula for the purpose. In Nucula
fhe columnar epithelium with differentiated cilia, and the thickened bands of chitin,
Aie towards the ventral edges of the leaflets, on the side of the axis nearest the
Satorent® vessel, and on the side farthest from the supporting membrane by means of
yhich the gill axis is concrescent longitudinally with the side of the body.
S Owing to the fact that in Plewrotomaria the supporting “ rods” lie in the edges of
he leaflets nearest the supporting membrane of the axis, Woopwarpt (p. 225) has
Zooen a grave difficulty in the way of homologising the ctenidia of the Lamellibranchia
“Awith those of the Gastropoda. But the strengthened edges of the leaflets are still
Bowarda the efferent side of the axis, and all that is necessary for a rational explana-
Stion of the facts is to allow that the concrescence of the gill axis with the body is
“hecondar ry, and that if the gill is backwardly directed, as in Nuculu, that side of the
pate which carries the afferent vessel may become concrescent with the side of the
Body, whereas if the gill is forwardly rotated over the back, and has a further trans-
Slation from right side to left, and vice versd, as in Streptoneurous Gastropods, the
Sconcrescence is effected between the body and that side of the gill axis carrying the
Seiten’ vessel. This admission as to the concrescence being secondary appears to be
‘glegitimate, i in spite of the fact that Drew has shown that the gill leaflets of Nucula