normal circumstances, the Mouse (Soporra, 1895), and probably the majority of
mammals.} But owing to the abbreviation and less pronounced characteristics of the
procestrum and cestrus in the Sheep and other animals, it is not easy to make certain
in which of these two periods ovulation normally takes place. This difficulty is
alluded to in the memoir on the cestrous cycle in the Sheep (MArsHALL, 1903).{ But
since in the Bitch ovulation takes place during cestrus, and in the Rabbit and Ferret it
may only be induced after the additional stimulus of coition, and therefore not until
after the commencement of cestrus, it is highly probable that the latter period is the
usual time for its occurrence in the Sheep, the Mare and the majority of mammals
which ovulate in the absence of the male. It follows that such animals can become
pregnant as a consequence of the artificial introduction of spermatozoa into the

* This fact has been already published in Mr. SepGWIcK’s text-book on the “ Vertebrata,” which
appeared last March. The information was communicated to him privately, but by inadvertence he
omitted to direct attention to this. (See Mr. Sepcwick’s letter in ‘ Nature’ for June 22, 1905.)—June 27.

f Harper (1904), in a recent paper “On the Fertilization and Early Development of the Pigeon’s
Egg,” says, that in the Pigeon, ovulation is delayed until mating. ‘When a pair ready for mating are
together, egg-laying ordinarily ensues at the end of a rather definite period, and at the least eight days, The
female functions are held in abeyance till the proper stimulus is received from a mate. The maturing of
the egg is so exclusively a female function that it seems odd, at first thought, that an apparent exception
should occur to the rule. Of course we know that the final maturation of the egg, or the giving off of the
polar bodies, awaits in most animals the act of fertilization. But here the effect is produced upon the egg
by the entrance of sperms. How mating itself, and the act of copulation could influence the ripening of
the egg in the ovary is another problem, In this connection the curious fact must be mentioned that