* This fact has been already published in Mr. SepGWIcK’s text-book on the “ Vertebrata,” which
appeared last March. The information was communicated to him privately, but by inadvertence he
omitted to direct attention to this. (See Mr. Sepcwick’s letter in ‘ Nature’ for June 22, 1905.)—June 27.

f Harper (1904), in a recent paper “On the Fertilization and Early Development of the Pigeon’s
Egg,” says, that in the Pigeon, ovulation is delayed until mating. ‘When a pair ready for mating are
together, egg-laying ordinarily ensues at the end of a rather definite period, and at the least eight days, The
female functions are held in abeyance till the proper stimulus is received from a mate. The maturing of
the egg is so exclusively a female function that it seems odd, at first thought, that an apparent exception
should occur to the rule. Of course we know that the final maturation of the egg, or the giving off of the
polar bodies, awaits in most animals the act of fertilization. But here the effect is produced upon the egg
by the entrance of sperms. How mating itself, and the act of copulation could influence the ripening of
the egg in the ovary is another problem, In this connection the curious fact must be mentioned that
two female Pigeons placed in confinement together may both take to laying eggs. The function of
ovulation is in a state of tension, so to speak, that requires only a slight stimulus, ‘mental’ apparently in
this case, to set the mechanism working.” These observations are especially interesting in view of the fact
that they were apparently written in ignorance of what is known to occur in regard to ovulation in the
Rabbit, the Sheep and the Ferret ; for HARPER says: “from analogy with the mammal and with many birds,
such as the common Fowl, we commonly think of ovulation as an exclusively female function, going on
regardless of whether the eggs produced are fertilised or not.” HARPER is inclined to associate the
adjustment of ovulation to mating in Pigeons with the monogamous habit, contrasting the conditions with
those of polygamous birds with whom mating is sure to occur, and the female functions may without
disadvantage be adjusted for continuous ovulation.

{ That Sheep in some cases ovulate after coition, and consequently during cstrus and not during the