from vessels sailing between the English Channel and the West Indies, but the
yield was generally poor, three larvee from one station being the highest. An
encouraging feature, however, was the finding of a larva only 34 mm. in length at
25° N., 51° W., both from the fact that the previous minimum record (41 mm.) was
thereby beaten, and also because the locality of the find suggested a place of origin
even more to the south and west than we had hitherto been warranted in imagining.
The material, however, was still too small and too sparsely distributed to give us the
distinct indication we desired ; indeed it is hardly too much to say that with each
new observation a new problem arose, demanding a solution of itself, without
otherwise contributing to the elucidation of the matter as a whole. Consequently,
when, in 1912, I published my last report of the investigations at seat I was
obliged to express myself with the greatest reserve on the question of the breeding
grounds of the eel, despite the fact that the finds of larve in the open Atlantic
Ocean had considerably increased in number as shown in the chart, Plate VI, loc. cit.,
1912. Inasummary which appeared in ‘Nature’ for August 22, 1912, I summed
up the position as follows :—‘‘ We cannot say as yet where exactly the spawning
takes place, and but little more than that the spawning places must lie in the
Atlantic beyond the Continental slope, and that they must lie in the northern
Atlantic.” There was one point in particular which made the matter difficult. As
already mentioned the “M. Sars” had in the month of June found a score
of lary, 4 to6 em. in length, which were classed by Hsorr as belonging to that year
(the O-Group), his view being that they had come into the world the previous winter
and spring, Our investigations, however, repeatedly gave us larve of the same
size, but taken in winter and spring. Thus, for instance, we had three specimens
taken early in December not far from the Azores (Station 397), measuring 43, 48,