thickened brush-like ending in the neighbourhood of the cardinal or jugular vein (V.).
The dorsal ganglia (D.G.) were well defined, and consisted of fusiform cells with large
ovoid nuclei, and with long and fine processes directed towards the spinal cord and
nerve. In transverse sections a more or less rounded mass of cells (Sy.) is seen lying
between the aorta (Arv.) or carotid artery, and the cardinal or jugular vein (V.). It is
formed of a mass of cells closely packed together and sharply marked off from the
ordinary mesoblast by a capsule composed of a single layer of flattened cells, which,
like the blastema-cells in which the mass is imbedded, stain less deeply than the mass
itself. The cells forming this group, besides being evident from their deeper staining,
possess nuclei, which have a striking appearance in transverse sections. Some are
large and prominent, with several nucleoli; others are very small; while some cells
appear to be without nuclei. In transverse sections they are round or angular.
These appearances are due to the fact that the cells are fusiform, and so are cut at
different levels in transverse sections. The mass, as a whole, is in close proximity to
the aorta or carotid artery. It is distinct and separate from the spinal nerves. It is
traceable in transverse sections from a point slightly anterior to the root of the fore-
limb to the middle of the trunk, being thickest in front, and gradually becoming
attenuated and indistinct behind.

In longitudinal (sagittal) sections of embryos from the same uterus, prepared in the
same way, one can make out by means of continuous series of sections that this
apparently rounded mass is distinctly evident on either side of the middle line as a
long rod or column of fusiform cells (Sy., Plate 26, fig. 11), possessing large, deeply
stained, ovoid nuclei, and fine thread-like processes. All the cells are directed antero-
posteriorly, and bear a marked resemblance to the cells of the dorsal ganglia at this