rather abruptly away from the line. Three specimen charts so drawn are given in figs. 1,
2 and 3 (pp. 45, 46), to which the reader should refer, as well as to the adjacent explanatory
text ; two others will be found on pp. 241-2 of ‘ Age and Area.’ If, now, similar charts
are drawn for the calculated distributions of Table II they will be found to run as in
figs. 4 to 9, pp. 47-49). It will be seen that at first, when time is very short—no more
than one or two doubling periods—the graph drops away rapidly ; but as time is increased
the graph soon takes on the form noted for actual data, at first nearly straight and
then falling away rather abruptly. For the longest time considered, 6-28 doubling-
periods, the point at which the abrupt fall begins lies outside the chart on the right.
So far as the graphic test goes, accordingly, the theory gives very well indeed precisely
the form of distribution required.

In Section IV the test of agreement between theory and fact on this point is completed
by fitting a calculated distribution to the actual distribution in four cases. To fit a
given distribution, we require to determine from it the two constants that determine
its form, the time + (in doubling-periods) elapsed since the commencement, and the
ratio p of the chance of a specific mutation to the chance of a generic mutation : we also
require the initial number Ny of primordial genera, which determines the total number
of genera existing. ‘The first two constants are found from the proportion of monotypes
and the mean size of genus in the data: N, is then given by the number of species (or
‘ genera) in the data.* The reader will find the results in Tables V to VIII (pp. 56-58) and
the values of +, 9, and Ny in Table IV (p. 54). The numbers of monotypic genera
observed and calculated must agree within a decimal point or so owing to the method
of fitting : but I think the reader who studies Tables V to VIII will admit that the agree-
ment between observation and calculation is throughout extraordinarily close. It