Next to the Crustacean remains in order of abundance, but very far behind in actual
number, are the traces of small Arachnids. These, so far as at present discovered, have
been described by Mr. 8. Hirst (1923), and comprise a true Mite, a small spider-like
creature, and several forms belonging to the extinct Order Anthracomarti. A few
fragments of other animals have also been seen, but they are too vague and uncertain to
allow of description at present. Strangely enough, although the Chert evidently repre-
sents a fossilised swamp or the shallow margin of a lake, no certain traces of any of the
characteristic microscopic organisms of such situations, such as Desmids, Diatoms,
Peridinians, Rhizopods, &c., have been seen, although constantly looked for. When it
is remembered that in addition to the cellular structure of the larger plants, delicate
hyphal threads and spores are also found most perfectly preserved in the Chert, this
absence of all representatives of our modern * pond-life ” organisms is very strange.
The explanation is possibly to be found in the theory, which in fact has been already
advanced to account for the origin of the Chert, that the water in which the Chert Bed was
formed came from a hot spring or geyser, and was highly charged with silica. In this
case the paucity of aquatic life would be comparable with what is known to occur in
concentrated saline waters, and the presence of only a single species of Crustacean
would be easily explained on the assumption that it was the only form which could
adapt itself to the very special conditions of the environment.

Technique-—Owing to the fragmentary condition of the remains of the Crustacean
and the entire uncertainty as to where they would most likely be found in the Chert, it
was soon realised that some simpler method than that of preparing ordinary rock sections
would be necessary if excessive labour and expense were to be avoided. The expedient
of examining small, thin flakes or chips of the Chert immersed in oil was therefore tried,