anastomosing system in the secondary wood and cortex of both shoot and root, and
also occur in the outer margin of the primary xylem of the root.” As this statement
occurs in connection with the presentation of Jerrrey’s views on the resin tissue of
conifers, it is probably based on the following sentences from the summary in his
article}: “'The Pine are characterized by the invariable presence of resin canals,
forming an anastomosing system in the secondary wood and cortex of root and shoot.
Resin canals are present in the outer margin of the primary wood of the root.” In the
above quotations it would seem that the term “ cortex ” is used in the way that Dr Baryt
defined it, as including both the “ bast zone, bast or liber (phloem) which, limited internally
by the cambium, includes and is characterized by all the phloem-groups of the ring,
and the external corter, DUHAMEL’s enveloppe cellulaire, lying outside this.” At any
rate, this is the ordinary interpretation of the above statements, and is the logical one,
from the fact that otherwise reference to the well-known resin canals in the outer and
primary cortex of the stem is omitted from what would seem to be a general statement
regarding the resin canals. Not only are the quotations not explicit with regard to the
cortex, but they involve fundamental misconceptions, as our study of the conditions
in Picea, by series of sections, has revealed.

The resin canals of the bast and primary cortex of the stem will be considered first.
Photo. 3 (Plate 8) is from a transverse section and shows a primary resin canal of the
cortex, to the middle left, while obliquely above is a structure (only part of it shown in
the photograph) of similar appearance, but belonging to the bast. From a consideration
of the individual transverse section there would seem to be justification for inferring
that, if one is a vertical resin canal, the other is also. Most radial sections might be
similarly misinterpreted, but Photo. 5 from a more fortunate section of a radial series