break in the tissues and subsequent overgrowth, which we had been accustomed to think
of as a necessary indication of wounding (see Photo. 57, Plate 13, and fig. 6, No. 5, p. 98).
There was, however, always evidence of a physiological disturbance in the annual ring
containing the resin canals, which showed itself in a more or less definite false annual
ring or rings. Such a condition is illustrated in Photo. 31 (Plate 10). The first year’s
growth is thin, and contains no resin canals, while the second is thick and has two false
rings with a series of resin canals associated more or less closely with each. Although
the magnification is low, it can be seen that the rings vary in distinctness and in radial
extent. The inner ring is much thicker and more diffuse on the side of the stem
opposite the part where its resin canals are located, and more definite and limited
where these are most abundant. The outer one is less distinct and double along the
left side, but still evident. When examined under a high power it is seen to be more
like a root annual ring, 7.e., the change is abrupt on both sides. In fact, false annual
rings may take on a variety of form. Part of one that may be termed the “ inverse ”
type is shown at a higher magnification in Photo. 29.* Here, if the lower tissues were
cut away, it would be almost impossible to tell the true from the false, or to know,
except by the inclination of the rays, in what direction the cambium lies. Its resin
canals are just beyond the upper limits of the field of the photograph in the diffuse
portion of the ring. The lower power photograph (Photo. 31) shows the resin canals
a little beyond the false ring. This is their usual position when they are abundant
and arranged in tangential series. Certain of the Photos. of Plate 18 may also be
examined to advantage in this connection. The definiteness of this position of the
resin canals with regard to the false ring largely disappears when the canals are

* See also Photo. 62 (Plate 13) for a complete ring of a similar type, from another section of the series.