tube-foot. By the time the secondary set appears, however, the buccal plates are much
more compact. Should the second series of tube-feet develop from within through the
buccal membrane as the primary ones appear to do, then they must either be formed
external to the plates (the latter undergoing resorption to allow them to enter) or
definite pores must be formed in the plates, in the same way as the genital pores are
formed, through which the developing tube-feet could pass.

The secondary buccal tube-feet are always, when first observed in the peristome,
large and resemble the ordinary tube-feet, the discs being exceedingly well developed.
Tt may be recalled that, when the test has attained a diameter of about 2-6 mm., a single
tube-foot is excluded from-each ambulacrum. Thus, in all, five tube-feet, those belonging
to the first series (Ia-Vb), are passed on to the buccal membrane. What happens to
these ? The fact that the secondary series of buccal tube-feet are in all respects similar
to those found in the corona, and are at first external to the buccal plates, seems to prove
that they have in reality come from the ambulacra. Further, small buccal plates are
laid down opposite the inter-ambulacra before any appear opposite the ambulacra
(fig. 31). Fig. 32 shows that, although plates have now appeared between the large
buccal plates and the ambulacra there is a distinct space (X) opposite the plates Ia, Ila
IIIb, 1Va, Vb, which would be sufficient to allow of the passage of a tube-foot. Thus
it would appear as if the secondary buccal tube-feet not only come from the corona but
are also formed much earlier than the primary series, being laid down in the Echino-
pluteus and the first set to acquire compound dises (see p. 265). The primary set appear
so soon after metamorphosis that it is impossible they could have come from the corona
resorption at the peristomial margin having as yet scarcely commenced, and the first
formed ordinary tube-feet being still a considerable distance from the buccal membrane.