upper border of the pons. In some of the specimens a longitudinal channel is formed.
This channel is joined by the higher metameric lateral medullary and pontine vessels.
On the left side the posterior inferior cerebellar artery continues beyond the longitudinal
anastomosis to reach the dorsal region of the medulla. It divides in this part of its
course into two branches. The anterior and larger branch continues the direction of
the main stem. It gives branches to the lateral region of the bulb and continuing
its course supplies the rhombic area and thence is distributed to the choroidal plexus
of the fourth ventricle and the cerebellum. The posterior and smaller branch passes
dorsally and inferiorly between the medulla and the accessory nerve. It is lost at the
point where the brain is sectioned. This branch I take to be the posterior spinal artery.
Tt will be seen from the figure that this branch likewise sends branches to the rhombic
area ; these branches anastomose with rhombic branches of the anterior branch. There
is in fact a continuous plexus on the restiform body which is reinforced by the transverse
branches of the vertebral and basilar artery which arise at a higher level.

There are therefore two longitudinal plexuses in relation to the posterior inferior
cerebellar artery—one lateral to the hypoglossal rootlets and one on the restiform body.
A reference to fig. 10 showing the distribution in the crocodile reveals the same restiform
or rhombic plexus. An interesting condition is seen on the right side in fig. 1 ; for here
the posterior inferior cerebellar artery divides so as to pass on either side of the last
rootlet of the hypoglossal nerve ; and then immediately lateral to this rootlet the two
branches are joined by the longitudinal channel in such a way as to enclose the last
rootlet in an arterial ring. The posterior of the two branches in this case divides, after
passing between the medulla and the accessory nerve, into an anterior branch which
supplies the choroidal plexus and the cerebellum and a posterior branch which is the