In their early stages separate amcebe have the power of combining together to form
large plasmodia. This coalescence of separate individuals is in no way a conjugation.
but a simple joining up of separate protoplasts in a way similar to that which regularly
occurs in the Mycetozoa during the formation of a plasmodium. With increase in
size of the vegetative soma, the daughter nuclei divide again by protomitosis. All the
nuclei divide simultaneously, whether they are all the product of the one nucleus of
the uninucleate amoeba, or the nuclei derived from the aggregation of several distinct
individuals. In the association of separate amcehe to form what may be termed a plas~
modium, they lose their individuality and continue to develop as a single organism.
This joining up of separate amceba within the host cell, however, does not always occur.
In time these may become enveloped in each other by mutual growth, but in such
instances no fusion of the protoplasts occur; each retains its individuality. This
fact may be clearly seen by the nuclei of the two organisms dividing separately, and
not simultaneously, as is characteristic of all the nuclei of a single plasmodium.

The size of the mature plasmodium depends partly upon the quantity of available
food, and partly upon the size of the infected host cell. Large plasmodia, having lost
their power of movement, are unable to pass from cell to cell of the host. As a general
rule the plasmodium, before spore formation, almost completely fills the host cell. In
some cases two or more smaller plasmodia are found lying within the same cell. It
is possible to distinguish these by the absence of co-ordination in the stages of nuclear
division, since the nuclei of two distinct plasmodia do not necessarily divide at the same
time. Sometimes there appears to be an almost complete coalescence of the protoplasts
of distinct large plasmodia, but in such cases a definite line can be seen between the
two which gives the impression of a thin wall bounding the outer limits of the proto-