It is worth noticing that these animals belong to the most primitive mammalian orders.
In most of these forms, the palatine cartilage (“‘ outer nasal floor cartilage,”’ processus
posterior lateralis, of other authors) is attached to the anterior paraseptal cartilage
by means of the cartilago ductus nasopalatini (or incisive cartilage) which lies just in
front of the nasopalatine duct. This nasopalatine cartilage has not yet chondrified
in the stages of Sorex studied, and it appears to be absent in Tupaja, Macroscelides
and Lepus, with the result that the palatine cartilage is free in these forms (ArNBACK
Curistie-Linpe, 1914). ‘The nasopalatine cartilage has been found in the calf by von
Mrmaxkovics (1899), and in the horse, pig, deer, sheep, ox, and rabbit, by Spureat
(1896). Itis not clear that by cartilago ductus nasopalatini some authors do not mean
the element which other authors call the palatine cartilage. When the former is
present, it is according to ArnBAck Curistte-LinpE (1914) always in continuity
with the anterior paraseptal cartilage, which fact raises doubts as to whether the
cartilago ductus nasopalatini has a real independence. It deserves further study,
and particularly in regard to the papillary cartilage which is present in some mammals.

Recently, Jacopson (1928) has tried to show that in Talpa the palatine cartilage is
represented by the nodule of secondary cartilage in the palatine process of the maxilla.
My studies on Sorex led me, however, to the conclusion that this view is erroneous.
In Sorex the palatine cartilage is present, as is also the secondary cartilage in the palatine
process of the maxilla. Histologically, these cartilages are quite distin¢t, and I can
find no evidence for the view that the secondary cartilage of the maxilla represents the
original primary palatine cartilage. On the contrary, it appears to me to be more
probable that the palatine process of the maxilla effects a functional replacement of the
primary palatine cartilage in the floor of the nasal capsule, but is not derived from the