rachis which formed the continuation of the main rachis beyond the point at which
the two vegetative arms separated.

The peculiar morphological features of the frond of Sphenopteris teiliana necessitate
the provision of another name of generic rank. As TI have suggested, there seems little
reason to doubt that this plant bore Telangium-like fructifications, but absolutely clear
proof of continuity is lacking. Kipsron does not appear to be justified in including
the fronds of Sphenopteris affinis L. & H. in the genus Telangium as there is neither
evidence of continuity between the sterile fronds and Telangium-like synangia on the
one hand nor between any fertile rachis and the sterile fronds on the other. The same
applies to Sphenopteris bifida L. & H., where nothing more definite than close association
connects any fructifications with the sterile frond. Another reasonable objection lies
in the fact that the genus T'elangium was founded by BENSON (loc. cit., p. 162) on petrified
material of Upper Carboniferous Age and probably many different families of Pterido-
sperms had microsporangiate synangia of this type. In spite of this, several species,
including those already mentioned of incrustations, have been referred to the genus
Telangium. CARPENTIER (1928) includes Sphenopteris striata Goruan, in Telangium
for, in addition to an almost constant association of the fertile and sterile parts which
he considers belong to the same plant, the superficial markings on their rachises are the
same. If, however, as CARPENTIER (1915) suspects may be the case, the synangia of
Sphenopteris striata ave bilocular, then a generic name other than Z'elangium must be
given to this plant. The relative positions of sterile and fertile parts of the frond of
Sphenopteris striata have not been determined. On the whole it seems best to avoid
the use of the name T'elangiwm for these fronds, and refer them to the genus Sphenop-
teridium since their vegetative characters are in agreement with what is found in that