and later by upward growth of the walls of this gutter to form a complete tube. The
first place in which the median ventral growth of the mid-gut takes place is in the region
next the stomodeum (fig. 32). At this point the endodermal strands are already
connected by the original endodermal mass. An increase in the number of cells takes
place here so as to extend the ventral endoderm further and further back. During
this process the cells forming the blind end of the stomodzeum consist of a very thin
layer, and one no longer sees a sharp line of demarcation of stomodzum from endoderm.
Whether this means that addition of cells from the stomodzeum to the mid-gut is taking
place or not, is difficult to determine.

Mitosis is commonly seen in the mid-gut rudiment and this appears to account for
the main growth of the mid-gut. The development of the mid-gut from the proctodeal
end is very similar to that from the anterior end. The main difference lies in the fact
that the proctodzeum begins to form, while the posterior endoderm mass is still small.
This entails a more prominent proliferation of cells from the blind end of the proctodzeum.
In other words, the development of the proctodzeum coming so soon after the beginning
of the development of the posterior endoderm mass, the formative area of the posterior
endoderm rudiment is carried inwards to the end of the proctodwum. It is this fact
which I believe had led many insect embryologists to the conclusion that the midgut is
ectodermal in origin. To this point I shall refer later. ‘The development of the mid-gut
from this region is from now onwards very similar to that already related concerning the
growth from the anterior end. Two strands pass backwards under the outer edges of the
proctodeum, until they meet the tenth abdominal somite on each side (fig. 36, Plate 6).
They then pass forwards above the remaining somites just as the anterior strands pass
backwards. Anterior and posterior strands meet at each side and soon a complete