stratum of fibres of the tractus olfactorius (s.t.0.). The last stratum becomes concentrated
into a large dorsal group and a large ventral group (see fig. 31, a). A few millimetres
posterior to this, the whole of the ventral border of the bulb is filled with fibre bundles ;
the dorsal collection becomes concentrated into a definite fibre group ; the dorso-lateral
and ventro-lateral become definitely the lateral olfactory tract ; while the ventro-medial
together, possibly with some of the dorsal, fuse to form the medial olfactory tract
(tr.ol.m., figs. 29 and 30).

In the dorso-lateral margin of the bulbus olfactorius there is found a large fissure
which extends about half way into its body—the fissura bulbi olfactorii (f.b.0., fig. 31, b).
It disappears slightly anterior to the attachment of the bulb to the ventral surface of
the telencephalon. The lateral ventricle of the telencephalon is not continued as a
cavity into the olfactory bulb ; in fact at its point of attachment the bulb is solid. In
the more rostral levels of the bulb, the fissure of the bulb is plugged by a solid ellipsoidal
mass. In all probability this fissure marks the site of the accessory olfactory bulb and
the ellipsoidal plug is, in part at least, the vomero-nasal nerve fibre-mass. This nerve
coming from JACOBSON’s organ can be traced as far as the olfactory bulb. In the
control dissection a portion of that nerve was lost in the medial surface of the bulb.
This was observed in a specimen unfit for microscopic study; but the nerve as it
penetrates could not be identified in any of the adult series studied. In Prof. Witson’s
three foetal brains of Platypus (Delta, XXVIII B, and Beta) there is a lateral mass of
nerve fibres, which can be clearly followed, with some degree of certainty from the
vomero-nasal organ. At the place where this mass attaches itself to the olfactory bulb,
the arrangement of bulbar tissue is similar to the stratum glomerulosum of the bulbus
olfactorius proper. Following a cupping or infolding at this point (Eviior Smrru,