centre of the presumptive area of I,, as it actually was in two at least of the three experi-
ments in which bracts arose. As an explanation it is suggested that the presumptive
area of I, is then so divided that even the larger part of it is too small to give rise to a
leaf. And yet the presumptive area is already so far determined in the direction of
leaf-formation that the larger part of it cannot be de-differentiated but is bound to go
on and form a structure of some kind. On the other hand, when J,a arose as a complete
and symmetrical leaf the original presumptive area of I,, if it was to any extent “ deter-
mined ” at the time of the operation, must have been completely de-differentiated again
as a result of the wound. Consequently the I,a leaves must have arisen not by re-
organization but as completely new leaves, as soon as spaces were available for them
both wide enough and far enough below the growing-point.

This explanation is supported by the facts already mentioned, that the I,a bracts
arose sooner than the I,a leaves, and that they covered much smaller arcs. Indeed the
bracts originated almost entirely from part of the normal primary presumptive area of
I,, as will be shown in section 11 and Table V, whereas the I,a leaves extended far beyond
this area. Incidentally, it may be pointed out that the smallest of the bracts covered
an arc of 60°, so that it appears that parts of the presumptive area of I, that are smaller
than this cannot give rise by themselves to any structure at all. But they may be
occupied later by parts of other leaves. On the other hand it might be expected that
if, as a result of a wound further from the median position, the larger part of the pre-
sumptive area of I, were larger than in the experiments in which bracts arose, and if the
operations were similarly made late in the plastochron, an imperfect leaf would arise,
as it did in some of the experiments on P,. Imperfect leaves were indeed obtained on
the kathodic side of the wound, as will be described in section 11, after operations made