this region to invaginate. The invagination deepens slowly while the prototroch
rapidly increases in size and sinuosity. Five days later, so rapid has been the growth that
the prototroch, gut and larval tissues have nearly reached their full size, fig. 6, Plate 29.
The prototroch is strongly arched at the four places already mentioned, and, in addition,
a small indentation has appeared half-way up each side of the ventral arch. When the
hyposphere muscles contract the four lappets are pulled in below the hyposphere until
they touch or almost touch one another, and the bristles are spread out between the
lappets in the regions of the arches. The invagination anterior to the anus stands up
stiffly, and is yellow or pale brown in colour. It now grows quickly and from below,
fig. 8, Plate 30, its crescentic slit-like external opening can be seen. With further
growth this slit gradually extends round the anus until the horns of the crescent meet
dorsally and the intestine becomes surrounded by the ingrown tissues. This ingrowth
is, in fact, the trunk rudiment, and it is already divided into several segments long before
the intestine is enclosed within it. From the anterior border of the crescentic slit to the
posterior border of the mouth an area of thickened hyposphere tissue can be seen, and
in this a little later a second invagination takes place to form the buccal organ. This
can be seen in lateral view in fig. 7, Plate 29, of a larva twenty-one days old. The trunk
rudiment is much larger than four days ago, but it has not yet completely surrounded the
intestine. The large thread glands, so characteristic of the adult, are seen developing
in some of the segments. The head, too, is growing fast, and possesses a reddish-brown
eye, formed from a cluster of oily-looking globules on either side. Another two or three
days, and the intestine is enclosed within the trunk, but only for a short distance dorsally,
fig. 9, Plate 30. The trunk now exhibits contractile movements, some of the muscles
of the body wall having been formed, The thread glands are prominent, and adult
bristles are distinctly seen. Since the previous stage, the prototroch and larval tissues