graph in 1890. Lanitie introduced a scheme of classification that was based
almost entirely upon the structure of the zooid, whether it formed one of a colony
or was a solitary individual, and the faculty for budding and its variability was
relegated very much to the background. Eventually, however, LAHILLE’s conception
predominated, and the process of budding in ascidians is not given great taxonomic
value. Actually there are two questions involved. Budding may have been
acquired or lost on one or many occasions ; and the degree of separation of the
constituent zooids of a colony may or may not be of much significance. The first
of these is still a debated question, but the degree of fusion of zooids in a colony
has long been recognized as being of little importance. JuLIn, in 1892, observed
a migration of mesenchyme cells through the epidermis to form test substance,
while recently Brien (1930) observed a similar migration of cells to form new test
material from stolonic vessels of Clavelina. The test, in fact, is an external collagen
secreted by mesenchyme cells that have migrated through the epidermis and
especially from vascular processes. At the same time such cells apparently are
able to live and secrete tunicin only within a certain distance from the adjacent
epidermis. Thus the degree of fusion of the zooids of a colony depends upon two
factors, the distance apart of the whole zooids and the number and distribution of
the stolonic vessels. Of these, the latter is the more important. As an example
the various species of Clavelina may be cited. In Clavelina lepadiformis, Clavelina
huntsmani, and others the stolonic vessels remain posterior to the zooids, and colonies
consist of individuals each surrounded by test but united to adjacent zooids only
by basal test. The zooids when growing rapidly are too far apart for test material
to be secreted in sufficient quantity to embed them in a common mass. Mere
contact of fully formed zooids is insufficient to produce fusion. In Clavelina picta