The two types of cells occur side by side in the epithelium, but generally their
distribution is such that one or the other predominates. In the diverticulum itself,
the type B cells are concentrated in the roof and floor, in the regions corresponding to
the lighter bands seen in fresh preparations, with the result that the type A cells,
although these extend all round the wall, are more conspicuous on the lateral walls.
The distinction between these regions is further emphasized by the cells of the roof
and floor being much shorter than those of the lateral walls. Something of this
differentiation of the wall of the diverticulum has been noted by Franz (1925),
according to whom the nuclei dorsally and ventrally, both here and in the mid-gut,
are short and arranged in one layer, while laterally they are longer and arranged in
several layers. He did not, however, notice the differentiation of the cells themselves,
nor does he seem to have appreciated the existence of two distinct types of nuclei.
In fact, he interprets the differences in appearance as due to the occurrence of less
cell proliferation dorsally and ventrally than laterally, and regards this as a primitive
character of simple guts. LANGERHANS (1876) has referred to the existence in the
epithelium of the mid-gut and diverticulum of some cells filled with large granules,
the remaining cells possessing a finely granular zone between the nucleus and the free
border. He does not refer to the nuclei of these cells, but his figure shows that the
former type of cell has a larger nucleus and a more prominent nucleolus than the
latter type. It is probable that these cells represent the type B and type A cells re-
spectively, but it is difficult to be certain of this from his description. PreTscHMANN
(1929) gives a figure (his fig. 72) after Krausr (to whose original work the present
writer has not been able to obtain access) which shows two types of cells in the
epithelium of the diverticulum, one with small dark granules and the other with lighter
vesicles; these clearly represent the type B and A cells respectively, but the nuclei