not a natural group, while the septibranchiate condition may have been acquired
independently by the Poromyidae and the Cuspidariidae (Yonge 1928). Atkins (1938)
has shown that the Lamellibranchia may be divided into two groups on the basis of
the nature of their latero-frontal cilia. One group has large eu-latero-frontal cilia
with subsidiary pro-latero-frontals. The other has very small micro-latero-frontal
cilia. The former group includes the Protobranchia, some of the Filibranchia, the
Eulamellibranchia and the Septibranchia; the latter the Pseudolamellibranchia (as
re-established by Pelseneer in 1911) and the remaining Filibranchia. Atkins suggests
that the second group is not derived from the same stock as the first and that the
Nuculidae cannot therefore be regarded as ancestral to them. But she bases this on the
assumption that “It seems very improbable. . . that such useful structures in the ciliary
method of feeding as eu-latero-frontal cilia once possessed would be lost, so long as the
method of obtaining food remained the same.” But this statement disregards the fact
that filtration of water through the gill is controlled by muscular action and blood
pressure as well as by the latero-frontal cilia. This has been shown conclusively by
Elsey (1935) in Ostrea gigas and QO. lurida. It will be impossible to assess the value of
Atkins’ suggestions until the relative importance of these additional mechanisms con-
trolling filtration have been determined in ctenidia with and without large eu-latero-
frontal cilia. It is hoped to go into this matter with the attention that it deserves in a
forthcoming paper on the evolution of the molluscan ctenidium.

There remains, therefore, Pelseneer’s separation of the Protobranchia from the rest
of the Lamellibranchia and this is certainly based on fundamental differences between
the two groups. It is to be concluded that the order Protobranchia established by
Pelseneer in 1891 is valid and that it represents the one unquestionably natural group