From such a record it was seen, first, that associated with the downward path on

liberation was a sudden forward rotation of the insect about a transverse horizontal
axis. This agreed with the observed values given in figure 2 for the position of the
resultant of those forces which, acting on the fly, would determine its state of motion
in free flight at the moment of liberation. This figure shows that the line of action of
the resultant passes behind the centre of gravity in the individuals maintaining wing
beats of this amplitude (140-150°). Recalling the magnitude of this resultant, it
seems probable that the downward path travelled on liberation resulted from the
observed rotation rather than from inadequacy of the ‘lift’ generated. The deficiency
lay in the distribution of forces in the system rather than in their magnitude. Secondly,
it was clear that the rotational tendency was lost as soon as forward speed had been
acquired. In fact, if the forceps holding the insect were travelling forwards at an
appropriate speed, the state of motion of the insect remained unchanged on liberation.
This was demonstrated by mounting the forceps holding the insect on a small trolley,
drawn along two horizontal wires by a cable from an electric motor. The trolley
travelled for about 3-0 m. prior to the release of the insect, whose path on liberation
was observed directly against a squared background. The speed of forward movement
of the insect at the moment of release was calculated from the time taken to cover
1-0 m. immediately prior to the point of liberation. In horizontal free flight it had
been found in general that females of this species, timed over distances of 3-0-5-0 m.
in a straight course, travelled at average speeds of 1-6—3-0 m. per sec., and, furthermore,
the impression was gained that at the lower speeds the body axis of the fly was inclined
backwards at 20-30° to the horizontal. It has already been noted in determinations
with the insect held stationary in ‘still air’, that the inclination of the body axis to