nrArt’s Lepidodendra is now an almost universally accepted fact. But these plants
vary ina very remarkable manner as to the stage of growth at which this secondary
development makes its appearance. In some, like the L. selaginoides, it exists in very
young twigs. In others, like the Arran plant (Z. Wunschianum, W11t.), the branches
have to attain to very large, even arborescent, dimensions, before the smallest.trace of
such a growth is discoverable. The LZ. Harcourtii is one of those in which no exoge-
nous zone has yet been observed ; but the history of the Arran plant teaches us to be
cautious ere we conclude that it never develops such a zone of secondary xylem.
The largest branch of LZ, Harcourtii yet met with is 34 inches in diameter, apart
from its leaves. I have specimens of the Arran plant of yet larger size, equally
devoid of all traces of secondary xylem; but when we come to stems of the latter
plant 2 feet in diameter, we find in them the most magnificent examples of a
secondary zone of wood that I have yet met with. This fact has only become
known to us through a rare and fortunate accident. We find in our Coal-Measures
very many, even large, Lepidodendroid and Sigillarian Trees, but unfortunately these
are all mere casts of the outer surface of the cortex, each interior being only a mass
of inorganic clay or sand. Hence we know nothing of what the internal organization
of these arborescent forms was. But the Arran stems have been preserved for us
under very different conditions. They have been imbedded, not in sand and mud
like those ordinarily met with, but in volcanic ash. Their central vascular axes,
with their contained medullw, are as perfect as they were in the living plants. Not
only so, but much of their cortex is equally well preserved. But for this happy and
unique circumstance, we should have been entirely ignorant of the fact that a
Lepidodendron might attain to a considerable magnitude without any trace of a
secondary vascular zone making its appearance in its stem, and yet, ere it attained to