ence in appearance that exists between the coiled gland and its straight duct is due to the
difference in size of the cells which constitute these two portions of the tube. The lumen
of the glandular region is encircled by only a few columnar cells which are necessarily
much narrower distally than they are basally. The nuclei of these cells are situated basally,
and are slightly elongated in the direction of the length of the tube. A fine chitinous intima,
staining a deep red with Mallory’s triple stain, lines the gland and is continuous throughout
the duct to its external opening. The epithelium of the duct of the gland, in contrast to
that of the gland itself, is composed of flattened cells with small nuclei which are greatly
elongated and lie parallel with the wall of the duct.

Miiller (1928) describes the situation on the walls of the crop of the coiled portions of
the glands of C. granaria, but does not mention the ducts and their external openings. In
fact, it is implicit in his account that the glands discharge directly into the crop, for he
says: ‘On the outer walls of the crop (fig. 13) are situated numerous long closely coiled
glandular tubes. It is probable that they produce an amylolytic enzyme which converts
the finely divided corn in the crop into sugar.’ Not only, however, do the glands have no
direct functional connexion with the crop in the imago, as made clear for C. oryzae by
Murray & Tiegs (1935) and for C. granaria in this paper, but in development also they are
completely dissociated from it. In the larva of C. oryzae they arise as ectodermal ingrowths
(Tiegs & Murray 1938), and in metamorphosis they redevelop as ‘two thick hollow straight
columns of actively dividing cells, which slowly extend up the rostrum’, and only on or
about the fifth day of pupation enter the thorax (Murray & Tiegs 1935).

(iii) The proventriculus. The proventriculus of C. granaria has been already described by
Miiller (1928), but unfortunately his account is difficult to follow and is lacking in detail.