which correspond to the diagonal arrangements of the leaves at the exterior of the
cortex. In each of these curves I usually find three leaf-traces, though, occasionally,
a fourth can be detected at the periphery of the cortex. These diagonal curves start
from the inner margin of the middle bark, and bend away in a segment of a circle
towards the periphery of the cortex, the concavity of each curve pointing towards
the centre of the branch. I find that the curves which bend outwards from left to
right are twenty-four in number, whilst of those curving from right to left there
appear but sixteen. On reaching the prosenchymatous zone of the cortex we find a
new element associated with the leaf-trace. A tangential section of this zone of the
cortex, intersecting one of these leaf-traces, is represented in fig. 13 (C. N. 380k), x 37.
The imperfectly-preserved vascular bundle is seen at c’, whilst immediately above it
we have, at g, a transverse section of the organ to which M. Berrranp has given the
name of “ parichnos.” No student of Carboniferous vegetation is ignorant of the fact
that near the centre of each leaf-scale, left after the fall of the leaf of a Lepidodendron
or Sigillaria, there are three small distinct marks. Bronenrarr believed all three
to represent a similar number of leaf-traces. We have long known, however, that
this was not the case. The central one alone is of that character, but what the other
two were has long been unknown. The Memoir of M. Berrranp throws some light
upon them and gives them a name, but long before that Memoir was published I had
obtained two magnificent series of sections of these objects illustrating their entire
morphology. On making tangential sections like fig. 13, we find in L. Harcourtii a
rounded cluster of cells enclosed in what resembles a more or less distinct sheath
resting upon the upper surface of the vascular bundle. On a later page, similar,
though modified, conditions in the corresponding parts of a Ulodendroid branch of a
Lepidophloios will be described.