After an extended examination, a very few were found after five injections and perhaps
slightly more after six injections, but again it proved difficult to make accurate counts.

(v) Sebaceous gland

Normal adult. The sebaceous glands, attached by their short ducts to the hair follicles
contain large secretory cells with characteristically clear cytoplasm. Each gland is bounded
by a thin layer of connective tissue which is continuous with the connective tissue
sheath of the follicle. The sebaceous gland differs from the other exocrine glands which
have been considered in that it is of the holocrine type. That is to say, not only do the cells
produce a secretory fluid, but in releasing this fluid they break down. It was therefore
to be expected that the rate of cell replacement would be relatively high, and reference to
table 36 shows that this is in fact the case. Mitoses were generally seen in cells close to the
sides or the base of the glands (figure 34, plate 33), and the new cells formed were apparently
pushed upwards to disintegrate, after the disappearance of the nucleus, near the apex of
the gland. It should be noted that this is contrary to the usual accounts of cell replacement
in the sebaceous gland, and that Maximow & Bloom (1940), for instance, state that
the new cells are derived from the walls of the duct. The numbers of mitoses were
counted in unit section areas of 0-1 sq.mm., but due to the small size of the glands it was
necessary to examine several sections to make up the total count for one of these unit areas.
Only low mitotic activity was found during dioestrus, the lowest point of all being noted
on the second day. On the third day of dioestrus the numbers of mitoses were rising, and
a peak of great activity was discovered during early oestrus (figure 34, plate 33). Then
followed a depression, and only small numbers of cell divisions were counted in late oestrus.
In metoestrus, however, there was a second rise to a smaller maximum before the final