(5) 16 ft. 3 in. to 17 ft. above the coal. It is apparent from figure 12 that there are two
groups of shells between which there is a simple linear growth relationship, most of the
young of the larger group having similar dimensions to shells of the smaller. While it is
usually possible to make the separation by eye there are a few difficult cases. The separation,
however, is fully justified by very detailed examination and collection through this horizon.
This revealed within 9 in. seven shell-bearing leaves, some of which merged with one
another. Large shells of the C. protea group are found exclusively in the upper two leaves,
while in the remainder they are present in varying proportions with smaller shells; in one
very thin leaf only small shells have been found. In the lowest leaf and for 3 in. below it
there is a profusion of shells showing extreme variability which appear quite inseparable.
It seems likely, therefore, that a split into two Linnean species took place between the
horizons 16 ft. and 16 ft. 6 in. above the coal. This effect may be the result of evolution.
In view, however, of the rapidity of the change and the fact that division into a large and
small shell group has been found as low as the Pot Clay Coal, at the base of the Lower Coal
Measures, the writer suggests that we may be dealing with the gradual migration of a cline
which split into species ‘up river’ or towards the shore.

(a) Small shells (figure 17)

The variation is comparatively limited. Nearly all the shells are referable to C. fallax
(figure 19L) or C. aff. fallax (figure 19K), while some approach C. cf. sulcata (figure 19 M, N).
Typically, the lower border is gently curved, and a slight carina may be developed in the
more dorsally arched casts. The fauna is comparable with that of the coarse mudstone of
the lower division (small shells of figure 8), differing from it principally in the absence of
the C. recta trend and in the possession generally of considerably greater size and a more