is markedly Arctic-Alpine. Its appearance here at the top of Zone II, accompanied by
Polytrichum alpinum, a mountain and moorland species, together with the fact that here the
N.T.P./T.P. ratio again becomes high, suggests that this 2 to 5 cm. of grey clay was deposited
under conditions colder than the preceding, when the climate was again becoming severe.
The grey clay is everywhere overlain by horizontally bedded laminated clay (Zone III),
showing that there were again glaciers in the drainage basin.

Correlation of this late-glacial detritus silt with the Allerad layer of north-western Europe which has
been recognized in Ireland. All the evidence from Windermere, from stratigraphy, pollen
analysis and macroscopic plant remains, supports the view that this detritus silt represents
a temporary period of relative warmth during the retreat of the ice-sheet. That this period
was not of interglacial magnitude is shown by the relative narrowness of its deposits
(maximum 50 cm.) and by the fact that it is overlain only by a comparatively thin deposit
of laminated (and therefore presumably waterlain) clay. This shows that there was no
readvance of ice over the site after the temperate period, but presumably only a downward
movement of valley glaciers from the central mountains towards the lake. This is in contrast
with the interglacial deposits of the neighbouring coastal plain (Kendall 1881; Eastwood,
Dixon, Hollingworth & Smith 1931) where peat beds containing the remains of temperate
plants are sometimes several feet thick and are overlain by boulder clay, presumably
deposited in situ. It would appear probable that the layer of detritus silt in Windermere
was produced as the result of a temporary fluctuation during the final retreat of the ice—
i.e. subsequently to the formation of the upper layer of boulder clay on the coast.

The deposits of a similar climatic fluctuation, involving a temporary warmer period,
have been described by many continental workers, and correlated with Jessen’s zonation