an individual plant is a necessary consequence of its ancestry and hereditary constitution,
i.e. it recapitulates the history of the race. Although the genetic constitution of an organism
must be involved in every aspect of its morphological development, it now seems improbable
that the facts of stelar elaboration can be explained in terms of the theory of recapitulation.
In these studies, some of the large, rapidly growing buds, which have been induced to
develop in the subapical region, may be solenostelic from the outset, with no antecedent
protostelic stage. The size and configuration of the stele, in fact, are directly related to the
size of the apical meristem and the latter to the nutritional status of the tissues with which
it is in organic continuity (Wardlaw 1945).

A comprehensive study of pteridophytes has shown that the progressive elaboration of
the stele accompanies its increase in size. That there is such a size-structure correlation
may now be accepted as a fact (Bower 1921, 1930; Wardlaw 1947d). The initial differentiation
of vascular tissue immediately below the apical meristem is a process which apparently
takes place uniformly throughout development, from the young sporophyte to the adult
state; it is during the subsequent phase of development and differentiation that the various elabora-
tions of the stele take place. These can be directly correlated with the size and nutritional
status of the apical and subapical regions. In a study of the apex of a tree fern, Cyathea

Manniana, the writer (Wardlaw 19484) has shown that during growth from the small
sporophyte a few mm. in length to the adult plant 3 to 4 m. in height, the apical growing
point undergoes a considerable enlargement—about seven- to tenfold. But in appearance,
outline, growth, differentiation, formative activity and arrangement of parts, the large
apex of an adult shoot is closely comparable with the small apex of a young sporophyte.
The former is simply an enlarged replica of the latter. In morphogenetic activity, as in