however, a lower proportion of cocoon formation or adult emergence than at 90% R.H.
and the same temperature. The difference was highly significant statistically and was due
to early death of some larvae, which did not occur in the other two species. The desiccating
influence of 60% R.H. was not so marked at 27 and 29째 C in the three species as it was at
other temperatures, a point of interest.

At 32째 C the desiccating influence of 60% R.H. was again indicated in the three species
(tables 23, 24) by a significant retardation in their growth; also by the successful develop-
ment which only occurred in larvae that remained within cocoons. This is more marked in
X. brasiliensis than in X. cheopis. There were a few lagging larvae of X. brasiliensis that lived
more than 18 days. The drying effect of 60% R.u. with 32째 C on the larvae of X. astia was
most pronounced, for many of them died in the first instar. This shows that this humidity
is very near the lower vital limit of this larva; this is also borne out by the fact that the
initial moisture of the food affected the proportion of successful development. When the
initial exposure of the food, which had been previously kept at 80% R.u. for a few days,
to 60% R.H. was for only 1 or 2 days, as in the first experiment, a number of the larvae grew
into adults. In contrast, if the food was first brought into equilibrium with this low humidity,
as in the second experiment, many larvae died within 4 days; only a few of them bred
successfully. The proportions of cocoon formation and adult emergence in both the experi-
ments with X. astia were significantly lower than those at higher humidities.

At 35째 C 60% R.u. exerted a great desiccating influence on the recently hatched larvae
of X. cheopis and X. brasiliensis (table 25) ; growth, though possible in some of them, was not
enough to permit their successful development. Most of the larvae of X. brasiliensis died in +
the first instar; only a very few completed their active larval life, and these died without