and humidity, and almost all the remaining cocoons contained advanced pupae. One day’s
exposure to this low temperature, however, stopped the emergence of adults; though some
subsequent growth proceeded in about half of them. Some growth, not followed by
emergence of adults, occurred in some of the larvae and the pupae within cocoons after
their 2 days’ exposure to 0° C. A subjection of 3 days to it proved very harmful, as only
a few pupae within the cocoons showed slight signs of subsequent growth; but that of
4 days proved completely fatal, and even the pupae within cocoons 5 to 6 days old
showed no subsequent signs of growth.

There was a marked variation in the percentages of the larvae which developed within
the cocoons of X. cheopis and X. brasiliensis, when exposed to 2° C for short periods per-
mitting their subsequent development (table 11). This is possibly due to death of the resting
larvae, as these appear to be most adversely affected by this low temperature. The fact that
the percentage of ultimate pupation within the 3-day-old cocoons of X. cheopis was definitely
lower than within its 1- or 4-day-old cocoons supports this assumption, because the
proportion of the larvae ready for metamorphosis in the former case was higher than in the
latter. This is also borne out by the fact that a much higher percentage of mortality occurred
in the larval stage in 3-day-old cocoons of X. cheopis (table 12) than in its 4-day-old ones,
when exposed to 0° C for 1 day. In an experiment with X. brasiliensis at 2° C (table 11),
marked with an asterisk, seven prepupae contained fully formed teratological adults. They
were elongated, following the outline of the prepupa, and were more of the shape of a larva
than a pupa, as complete pupation had not occurred in them. Apparently, this unfavour-
able temperature is more harmful to the emergence of the pupa than to its growth. This
also holds good for the emergence of adults, as a fairly high percentage died within the
pupal skins.