At 13° Ga relative humidity of 60 % was fatal to the larvae of X. cheopis and X. brasiliensis,
for all of them died in the first larval instar. At 17° C 50% r.u. proved fatal to the larvae
of both the species, and more than half of them were killed in 2 days. The larvae of
X. brasiliensis were more susceptible to dryness than those of X. cheopis; the difference in
length of life is highly significant under these climatic conditions. Even at 60°% R.H. with
17° C nearly all the larvae of X. astia failed to grow, though some of them lived for a very
long time. Only one larva, not included for calculation of the mean survival duration,
completed its larval life in 63 days, and died as an early pupa; this shows that this humidity
is not far below the critical borderline limit for its larva at this temperature. There are,
evidently, specific differences in the susceptibility of the larvae to desiccation, X. cheopis
being slightly less and X. astia considerably more susceptible than X. brasiliensis.

A very large amount of facts on the limits of temperature and humidity which are fatal to
the larvae of the three species is set out in table 4. The facts for these species are interpreted
in figures 1, 3 and 4. At the different temperatures tried, 40° R.H. was rapidly fatal to the
larvae of all the species; similarly, 45°, r.u. was fatal. Mellanby (1933, p. 198) also found
that the larvae of X. cheopis ‘died very soon’ at 40% R.u. or below and 18 to 35° C. Even
50% R.H. proved fatal to the larvae of X. astia, though they lived for a few days at 27° C
without showing any signs of growth. Half the larvae of X. cheopis and X. brasiliensis died
within a day at 50% R.H. with 32° C, and only a few that lived for more than 15 days died
in the second larval instar.

At 35 and 38° C 60% r.u. was fatal to the larvae of X. astia. Most of them died within
a day at 35° C; only a few grew and died in the second larval instar. All the larvae died
within a day at this humidity with 38° C, and the time in which they died was significantly