screen is a typical example of such cluster formation, clearly requires further examination
before it can be accepted, and conclusions from it applied to the retina. Such an examina-
tion might be done practically, or mathematically, or both. Some practical tests were
carried out as follows: about 1 oz. of the fine granular cereal ‘semolina’, was divided
roughly into three equal parts.. One part was dyed red, another part green and the third
part violet. These were mixed together as thoroughly as possible, and then dropped in
a thick layer on a flat surface. Examination of the upper free surface disclosed the presence
of numerous clusters, some red, some green and some violet. But in addition to the clusters
of the primary colours it was observed that there were clusters of the secondary colours,
yellow, blue-green and purple, which were produced by groups of red and green grains,
green and violet grains, and violet and red grains, respectively. When viewed at a distance
the whole surface of the mixture of grains appeared to be mottled just as a Lumiére screen
does. One curious fact was noticed, however, namely that the scale of the clusters was
different in the two cases. In the Lumiére screen the clusters of any given colour, for
example red, were 0-5 mm. apart, and the starch grains on the average 0-01 mm. diameter,
so that the distance from the centre of one red cluster to the centre of the next was equal to
about 50 grain diameters. In the case of the semolina, on the other hand, the centre of
one red cluster to the centre of the next measured about 10 mm. and the granules had a
diameter of roughly 0-6 mm.; so that the clusters were separated by only 17 grain diameters.
Another point noticed was that the clusters in the Lumiére screen appeared to be larger
than those in the case of the semolina. It is not very easy to determine the precise limits
of a given cluster, nevertheless, the above differences appeared to be too large to be due to
errors of observation. The following tentative explanations were suggested in order to
account for the difterences referred to above; variations in grain size, population size and
