
Finally, at high intensities the fixation spot at the foveal centre is used. In accordance with
the cluster hypothesis, every one of these spots, whether in the periphery, in the parafovea,
in the fovea or at the fixation point itself, is occupied by a cluster ofappropriate composition.
When red light is in use, it is a cluster largely composed of red receptors that is employed
for vision. When blue light is in use, it is a blue cluster which is selected. Similarly for
green light. When white light illuminates the test object it is a yellow-green cluster which
is selected because the rays of this hue have a higher visual luminosity than have the red
and blue rays, and because the yellow-green rays, being more sharply focused than the
rest, play in consequence, a more prominent part in the perception of fine detail. Now
these different clusters, employed with lights of different spectral composition and different
intensity, not only differ in position in the retina, but differ in shape as well. An examina-
tion of the Lumiere screen discloses the fact that no two clusters are precisely the same either
in size, shape or make-up. Some are almost spherical, some are elliptical, some are spiral
and so on. Like pebbles they vary one from another, and no two are exactly alike. Any
cluster which has greater dimensions in one direction than it has in another will give greater
acuity in the longer direction; that is, it will show retinal astigmatism. The better acuity
will be parallel to the longer dimension of the cluster. When a different cluster is in use,
the pattern of the retinal astigmatism will be different. When the cluster is spherical, there
will be no retinal astigmatism at all. With the C test, and bright sunlight, the author has
greater acuity with green light when the broken ends of the C lie either in a horizontal or
in a vertical direction, than is the case when they lie obliquely, either 45° to the right, or
45° to the left. The conclusion is that the cluster in use has good vertical and horizontal
components, but poor oblique ones. Thus it may be L-shaped, T-shaped, or +-shaped,
according to the precise arrangements of its two components. The conclusion from all these