direction effect forthcoming. But the cluster hypothesis offers such an explanation. Stiles
& Crawford found their effect by comparing the visual luminosities of two narrow beams
of light, one of which had passed through the centre of the pupil, while the other passed
through some other part which could be chosen at will. Now D’Silva & Turton (1947)
have shown that when colorimetric comparisons of brightness or colour are being made,
a small, and possibly a very small, part of the retina is actually being used for the purpose.
Thus it is quite likely that the clusters of red-sensitive cones near the fixation point, which
are used when high pattern acuity is required, are also used for purposes of colorimetric
comparisons when red light is in use. Support for this view is obtained from the recollection
that, in both form acuity and comparison acuity, it is the perception of a small difference
of light intensity on which both really depend. But similar reasoning applies to the green-
and the blue-sensitive cones. Now whole clusters might well point in slightly different
directions, in fact it would be an extraordinary thing if they did not. We have then, in the
cluster hypothesis, a feasible explanation of this retinal direction effect.

(124) The colours of an intermittent point source

A small intermittent point source of light was fixed by one eye, and was given small
irregular jerking movements. The result was that colour changes, sometimes pink and
sometimes pale blue-green, were observed. For the experiment to succeed, the source must
be of the correct brightness, it must flash every 1 or 2 sec., and its movements must subtend
at the eye from 1 to 10 min. of arc. It was unusual for the colours to be seen without much
careful adjustment and prolonged observation. These experiments have shown that four
conditions have to be satisfied for the changes in colour to be perceived by the eye. The
source must subtend a very small angle at the eye, it must be of a certain brightness, it