S The above calculations were checked in the following manner: two green lines, 2mm.
By wide, were mounted parallel to one another on a black background with. their centres
2 12 mm. apart. They were now placed in bright sunlight and examined at various distances
& until one was found at which the black space between the lines appeared to be equal in
n width to the images of the lines themselves. When this was the case the apparent width of
3 either of the bright lines, which is partly due to diffraction and aberrations, was equal to
6 half the distance between their centres, i.e. 6 mm. The distance between test object and
2 observer was found on successive trials to be 19, 20, 19, 20, 21, mean=20-2m. At this
oh distance the width of a cone would correspond to about 4mm. (see § 21, p. 537). The
= apparent width of the bright lines was, therefore, about 1-5 times the width of a cone,
5 assumed in the previous section. Now part of the apparent width of the bright lines was
& due to their actual width, viz. 2mm. If the lines could be made infinitely narrow their
2 apparent width would probably be less than in fact it is. In other words the apparent
§ width of the images of the bright lines on the retina would be little larger than the diameter
of a foveal receptor. This confirms the calculations referred to at the beginning of this
= section and shows that the effective definition of the retinal image is quite good, justifying
é an attempt to stimulate single receptors, or small groups of receptors by means of a con-
a= | trolled narrow beam of light.

g The above experiment has been repeated using silver-paper lines 1 mm. wide on a black
pal background. The centres of these lines were also 12 mm. apart. It was found that for the
3 images of these lines to be half the width of the distance between their centres, the observer
BS} had to be about 24 m. from the test object. At this distance the width of a cone corresponds
Z to roughly 4-8 mm. so that the apparent widths of the bright lines (6 mm.) is equal to
a 1-25 cone units. This confirms the idea that with infinitely narrow bright lines as test