as short fibres, some of which show traces of lateral twigging. The connective tissue (c.t.)
which bounds the foot and separates the perihaemal canal from the bulb tissue (bulb med.)
appears, and is drawn as, about 8y thick though, if the obliquity and thickness of the
section is taken into account, its actual thickness is more nearly of the order of 4. Inter-
nuncial neurons (intern.n., a, b, c, and d) of various types have dendrites which extend from
the cell bodies in the bulb tissue to the connective tissue boundary where they branch into
a number of exceedingly fine processes. It has not been possible to decide with certainty
whether the terminal branches stain and are visible to the limits of their extension or
whether they are continued as still finer threads which perforate the connective tissue
lattice and acquire contiguous relationship with the axons on the farther side. It is difficult,
however, even in the absence of more positive anatomical evidence of such perforation and
relationship, to deny significance to the striking appositional tendencies of the two systems.
One feels that it is the nature rather than the fact of connexion that is in doubt. If this
conclusion, which is amply supported by experimental evidence, is valid the internuncial
neurons of both the medial and lateral bulbs of the foot are in receipt of excitation through
the central distributory tracts, and the muscles of the foot and ampulla have in consequence
a nerve supply which in its superficial aspects at least conforms to a bilateral pattern.

THE INNERVATION OF THE AMPULLA MUSCULATURE

As figure 8 shows, the nerve supply to the ampulla, while essentially bilateral in character,
deviates from strict bilaterality on account of the division of the medial bulb into two lobes.
The asymmetrical disposition of the bulbs, and consequently of the internuncial neurons
contained within them, is, however, almost certainly due to the intrusion into the medial side
of the foot of the lateral water vessel. It appears otherwise to have no functional significance.