
The arguments outlined above suggest that the differences between the shoot apices in
seed plants and ferns may not be so great as is sometimes thought; there is, apparently,
a common pattern of growth. The histological differences may be attributed to those
genetical factors which affect cell size and growth and to physiological and other factors
which are evoked during development; but on those aspects of apical activity where genic
factors are involved, practically everything remains to be discovered. A knowledge of how
genes control the distribution of growth in the apical and subapical regions, for example,
would contribute to a solution of many of the problems that have been raised here.

In actively growing ferns the incipient vascular tissue at the apex is conspicuous in
suitably stained preparations. In many seed plants, on the other hand, such a tissue is not
easily demonstrated, if it is indeed present. In fact, the vascular system in flowering plants
is regarded by some investigators as being entirely of foliar origin. But there are some
flowering plants, e.g. Primula, where a prestelar ring can be observed close behind the
tip of the shoot; a small acropetal extrapolation of this ring would indicate the region of its
inception to be just below the meristematic cells of the tunica at the extreme summit of the
shoot. It is because of the visible continuity of distal meristem and prevascular tissue
in some species that the vascular tissue has been described as originating from ‘residual
meristem’. In the ferns, the prevascular tissue is not simply ‘residual meristem’ but is
a differentiated product of the superficial apical meristem. In some flowering plants the
inception of vascular tissue at the apex is closely comparable with what is found in the
ferns. Thus the published illustrations of Opuntia (Boke 1941) and of Hippuris (Louis 1935)
show axial prestelar tissue above the level of the youngest leaves and in close proximity to
the most distal group of cells. Investigations by new microchemical techniques may well