washing with the latter solvent being repeated as many times as is necessary completely
to remove the yellow pigment which is usually, but not invariably, associated with fowl
erythrocyte nuclei. They are then suspended in ether and filtered at the pump. Micro-
scopic examination of nuclei prepared by this method reveals the fact that a proportion
of the nuclei, although free from haemoglobin, retain the stroma. Thus, in wet smears
of the undried preparations an outline (‘ghost’) of the whole cell, retaining its original
oval shape and containing a nucleus in the centre, can sometimes be seen, while in
preparations treated with alcohol or completely dried a fine jagged protruberance, evidently
consisting of part or all of the stroma, juts out from the surface of many, but not all,
nuclei. The proportion of nuclei retaining stroma can, we believe, be considerably
diminished by vigorously stirring a suspension of the nuclei from the final saline washing
in 4 % acetic acid, straining through muslin and repeating the treatment on the centri-
fuged material with 1 % acetic acid. We have, in fact, adopted this procedure in most of
our preparations. One disadvantage of the use of haemolytic agents lies in the apparent
ability of the nuclei to retain a small quantity of them. That saponin is so retained has
been shown in some unpublished determinations of furfurol-yielding substances which
Dr A. B. Roy has carried out in his laboratory on some of the above preparations. The
results show that nuclei from fowl erythrocytes prepared with the aid of saponin yield
considerably more furfurol than do those obtained by other means. It is clear that this
extra furfurol originates from saponin retained by the nuclei.

The saponin method has only been used on one specimen of erythrocytes from the
salmon, and this was unfortunately too small to be of further use in the present investiga-
tion. It is mentioned here, however, because of its anomalous behaviour. On centri-
fuging the liquid after treatment of the washed cells with saponin two layers were