and on turbulent transport in general. Nor will the reader escape the conclusion that the
interpretation of results from a single station, especially if it is situated some distance from
the node, must take these movements into account. A warning to this effect was issued as
early as 1901 by Ule (p. 140) in his classic essay on the physical limnology of the Starn-
bergersee, and was even more forcibly expressed by Wedderburn (1911, p. 628): ‘They
[the observations] should demonstrate to other observers the necessity for more careful
investigation of lake temperatures and the futility of basing comparisons between lakes on
observations made at one point and at considerable intervals of time.’

These warnings have, nevertheless, been largely unheeded; hydrobiologists have con-
tinued to draw doubtful conclusions from observations at single stations and at infrequent
intervals. This failure to recognize the universal application of Wedderburn’s work derives
in part from the fact that no one since his day has organized temperature surveys in
sufficient detail to distinguish between effects of wind and effects due to internal waves.
The dispute which developed between Exner (1910) and Halbfass (1909, 19104) over the
interpretation of the latter’s observations in the Mondsee may serve as an example.
Halbfass believed that changes in the level of the isotherms were due to changes in the
wind, and that internal seiches would not occur in unsettled weather. Exner held that
Halbfass had not proved their absence in this case. Using Watson’s equation, and
inserting dimensions as defined in this paper, the period works out at about 25 h, some-
what longer than that calculated by Exner (1910), and the observations on 9 and 10 July
1909 (Halbfass 1909) are not inconsistent with an internal seiche of this period. But the
following daily observations were so widely spaced that further progress of the seiche, if
any, was unrecognizable. Birge (1910) also interpreted Wedderburn’s early findings as the
result of shifts in wind direction, and it is possible that his verdict of ‘not proven’ on