build up a connected picture of the fast-moving manoeuvres of any one individual in such
winds. Moreover, Waloff & Rainey’s readings include locusts flying at all heights from 3 to
12 m. That is a critical range of heights, to judge from the observations recorded in the
present paper, so that aggregating the readings for analysis may have concealed some
regularities.

My own and others’ observations which are quoted earlier (pp. 182-193) were not made
systematically or with the desirable degree of precision. But attention, at least, was paid to
all the circumstantial points mentioned above. Considered together, the observations
provide certain indications of an orderly system of flight direction—wind direction relations
dependent on wind speed and height of flight. These results, together with the findings on
the effect of wind speed on flight activity and on the height of flight, make it worth while to
consider how the wind may in fact affect the behaviour of the locusts, first as a direct
mechanical stimulus to them and secondly as an indirect cause of visual stimulation.

Reactions to direct stimulation by wind. It is sometimes assumed (e.g. by Zolotarevsky 1929)
that flying insects can sense the direction of the wind directly, by its pressure on their bodies,
even if the wind be completely smooth. This seems to be a misunderstanding, as Fraenkel
(1932), de Lépiney (1933), Kennedy (1940) and Williams (1942) have pointed out. Any object
which exactly floats in air and which does not exert any propelling force tends to acquire
quickly the velocity of the air. In a completely smooth wind, once the velocity of the wind
has been reached, such an object cannot have any wind force acting on it. If the object is
self-propelled then the only wind force acting upon it will be that due to its self-propulsion
through the air. Thus a locust flying in a smooth wind cannot receive any direct information
about the wind speed or direction and cannot therefore react directly to it.