point of view. It does not involve the elaborate sequences of different reactions to specific
stimuli, such as are involved in the other kinds of instinctive activity that have been cited
in this discussion: feeding and mating. During the latter activities, these specific reactions
prevent the animal from stabilizing its environmental relations to any striking degree,
although immediately regulatory reactions are also occurring frequently and serving to
minimize external changes which would otherwise disrupt the given specific activity. The
behaviour of the migrant, however, is made up, apart from its locomotion, almost entirely
of reactions of the immediately regulatory type. This is, no doubt, one reason why migratory
behaviour has often seemed to be something quite apart from all other kinds of behaviour.
The migrant’s tendency to go straight is the sensory-regulating type of behaviour main-
tained in so exceptionally pure a form that it has given the impression of veritable indepen-
dence of the environment, instead of the delicately adjusted, direct dependence which it in
fact expresses.

The tendency to go straight, and the going itself, are both outcomes of the locomotory
drive. That drive, the only feature peculiar to or ‘innate’ in migrants, is not itself directional
in any sense. There is no ‘directional urge’ in the migrant, no ‘innate sense of direction’.
Locomotory activity—‘going’—is more persistent and unconditional than going straight.
It is the direct outcome of the causes subsumed under the term locomotory drive. In that
sense locomotory activity is the primary aspect of migratory behaviour, while going
straight is a secondary one. Going straight is more conditional, an outcome not only of the
special locomotory drive but equally also of the general function of sensory regulation.
Going straight is simply a means of solving an old biological problem in a new context: the
problem of environmental stabilization in the context of persistent locomotion.
