cannot pass into the alimentary canal (unless, most improbably, it does so eventually by
way of the ctenidia and palps). Stenta has described and figured it in full anatomical
and histological detail, and the gland in Pinna carnea agrees with his description of that
in P. nobilis. It is an elaborate racemose structure with a very extensive internal surface.
Ducts, which lead to a common opening, are ciliated and contain Alcian Blue staining
mucous glands. The tubules of the gland are composed of one type of cell. The nuclei
are rounded and the cytoplasm has little structure or affinity for stains. The only contents
are minute brown concretions, usually scattered throughout the cells but occasionally
massed together, in which condition they appear to be expelled from the cells. There is
a good blood supply, and the general impression gained is certainly that of an excretory
organ.

Suggested functions of this gland are that it is salivary or else excretory. The fact that
its products will inevitably be carried by ciliary action on the mantle into the waste
canals for speedy removal really disposes of the first suggestion. Stenta thought the
gland was excretory, partly, however, because he considered that pericardial glands were
not present in the Pinnidae. White (1942) has since reported their presence in some,
though absence in other, species of Pinna. But she also finds that the pallial gland is largest
in species devoid of pericardial glands and therefore supports the theory that it is
excretory in function. As noted above, this view is further strengthened by histological
examination, although it would be most desirable to confirm this experimentally. If it
is an excretory organ then it is unique in opening into the inhalant chamber, but it
certainly does so in the one position, possibly confined to this one family of lamellibranchs,
from which waste will be quickly and continuously removed from the mantle cavity. If
this is an excretory organ then it is interesting to speculate why certain of the Pinnidae