laid down simultaneously, and that at the maximum advance of the ice the eastern and
western glaciers were in contact along a line slightly west of R, of Dr Tomlinson’s map.
It is on this line that we find the moraine gravels of Tattle Bank, and that is why they can
contain large boulders of Welsh rocks in addition to flint and Leicestershire igneous rocks
(Tomlinson 1935, p. 433). Being contemporary, the high-level Eastern and Western
Drifts have suffered the same subsequent erosional history and so occupy the same position
on the hill tops. If, however, we equate the two types of high-level drift, there still remain
the various valley deposits to be correlated. Dr Tomlinson has five such deposits earlier
than No. 2 terrace—low-level Western Drift (e.g. the sands and gravels of Riley’s Pit,
Temple Balsall), the Kingswood gravel train, local drift terraces, low-level Eastern Drift
gravels as at Hatton station, Bearley station and Preston Bagot, and No. 4 terrace from
Little Alne south-westward. The first four she equates more or less, but places the fifth as
later; and to explain the fact that the Kingswood gravels and low-level Eastern Drift lie
on a long profile which seems to grade into No. 4 terrace lower down the River Alne (1935,
p. 458, fig. 8, Pl. XX VII, fig. 2), invokes two phases of erosion and aggradation which
happened to finish at the same height. I have in my correlation table suggested that these
two phases are really one, coinciding with the formation of No. 4 Avon terrace. This is an
appreciable change from Dr Tomlinson’s conclusions. The low-level Western Drift north
of the watershed at Temple Balsall—which maps like a terrace—would also then be
equated with No. 4, and the Acheulian hand axe found loose in Riley’s pit (Tomlinson
1935, p- 429; Shotton 1937, Pl. V, fig. 2) would be in accord with the other records from
this terrace. Dr R. P. Oakley has expressed the opinion that the implement from Riley’s
pit ‘marches with the implements from the Wolvercote channel’. It will be seen, in
table 6, that I correlate this channel with part of No. 4 terrace.
