bird’s-, or caterpillar’s-eye view). During a single day Ideally, comprehensive biological inventories of sites
a wood pigeon may experience the full above-soil (ATBIs, see below), will be needed if full quantitative
biodiversity of a forest (fine-grained sampling) measures of biodiversity are to be used in making
whereas the same forest, sampled by a caterpillar is conservation decisions. However, these are unlikely to
experienced as the ‘biomonotony’ of a single leaf be obtained from more than a handful of sites in the
(coarse-grained sampling). The use of the concept of foreseeable future. We need therefore to look for simpler
grain to describe an organism’s eye view of the yet objective ways of predicting where high biodiversity
diversity of an environment is due to Robert will occur. Are some taxa particularly good indicators of
MacArthur (e.g. MacArthur & Connell 1966). Even community biodiversity? Might it be that, by chance,
if we confine our measure of biodiversity to species those mammals, birds and plants (such as orchids) that
richness and forget any discounting for differences in appeal so strongly to the lover of wild-life happen to live
phylogenetic distances or ecological contribution there in (and are therefore good predictors of) areas of
remains the fact that, at the ‘grain’ of community diversity particularly high biodiversity? Or are there other often
sampled by us, some of the various species present in a unstudied yet easily observed groups such as the larger
community are abundant and others are very rare. lichens that have the most potential in this regard?
This issue is especially acute for microbial groups; in Pearson (this volume) considers the factors that could be
most instances the largest numbers of individuals at a used in selecting appropriate indicator taxa and
site will be the microorganisms which are not only Hammond (this volume) assesses the practical steps
unseen but often also unculturable (Embley e¢ al., this that can be taken to estimate biodiversity in the most
volume; O'Donnell e¢ al., this volume). speciose groups.

‘Equitability’ is therefore clearly an element of The most daunting problems arise in making any
‘biodiversity’ and is one aspect that has been built measure of biodiversity in the soil (O’Donnell et al.,
into formal mathematical indices, for example the this volume) where there may be more than 109
Shannon Diversity Index and Simpson’s Index that microorganisms per gram of soil, and in the sea where