consider the evidence that each is involved in spatial cognition, and then we consider their relative roles. We do
not directly address the problem of whether either or both of these areas of the brain are solely devoted to spatial
cognition or whether this is merely one of many different functions, or the most obvious manifestation of some more
general function, performed by the area in question.

cortex

(a) Parietal cortex

Evidence for the role of the parietal cortex in spatial perception and cognition has come principally from the
human lesion data and from single-unit recording in monkeys. Damage to the parietal cortex in humans, in parti-
cular to the right parietal cortex, results in a neglect of the contralateral half of space. This neglect syndrome affects
all modalities and is therefore considered to be a spatial deficit rather than a sensory one. The fact that the neglected
region of space travels with the movements of the observer has suggested to many that the spatial framework
egocentric one with its origin on a receptor or body axis. Attempts to identify the framework with particular
receptor or body parts, such as the head or trunk, have met with mixed success. For example, when head and
trunk axes were dissociated by requiring the patient to turn the head to the right (see, for example, Bisiach ef al.
1985; Karnath et al. 1993) neglect for stimuli occurred on the left side in both frameworks.

A neural correlate of the interaction between eye- and head-centred frameworks has been reported by Andersen
and colleagues (Andersen et al. 1985).' They showed that, whereas neurons in the posterior parietal cortex had visual
receptive fields coded in retinal coordinates, the gain of the firing rate was modulated by the orientation of the eyes
relative to the head. The neural response to stimulation of the same retinal field increased or decreased as the eyes
were moved to point at different locations in head-space. The paper by Pouget & Sejnowski (this volume) presents a
computational model of the parietal cortex, which shows how this might be accomplished by means of units that