Transactions of the Royal Society over the years, it is most appropriate that this mbly of 13 papers on
various aspects of platypus research should appear here. Especially so since those on the functions of the
bill stem from Home’s observations. His ‘nice discrimination’ has been shown here to be effective at
precisely defined distances in the water, by the integrated activation of electro- and mechanoreceptors
located in the bill, for detection of prey.

The paper by Siegel e¢ al. (this issue) showing REM sleep in the platypus may also be said to stem from
early observations: George Bennett (1835) kept two nestling platypuses for some weeks, and during that
time he noted that when they were asleep they often appeared to be dreaming of swimming ‘their forepaws
in movement as if in the act’. Juvenile platypuses would, therefore, seem to be ideal subjects for the study of
REM sleep in monotremes, rather than the adult, possibly elderly, echidnas I supplied for Allison et al.
(1972) whose research results proved to be negative. This present paper dispels that notion that monotremes
do not have REM sleep: in fact the platypus have more REM sleep than is known in any other amniote, be
it reptile, bird or mammal. Other factors that favour the use of juvenile platypuses are that they are easily
caught in the water in February and that they go to sleep readily.

Two papers in the collection are from disciplines new to platypus research: palaeontology, and relation-
ships based on DNA. Palaeontology took a bow in 1975 with the description of the teeth of an Oligocene—
Miocene platypus, Obdurodon insignis, by Woodburne & Tedford. Some years later a near-perfectly
preserved skull of another species of Obdurodon was described under the name of O. dicksoni (Archer et al.
1992). This specimen is the subject of further discussion of the evolution of monotremes by Anne Musser
& Mike Archer (this issue), enhanced by Anne’s very beautiful illustrations worthy of a place beside those
of Meckelio’s Descriptio anatomica, and of Richard Semon’s (1994a,b) Forschungsreisen in Australien und dem
Malayischen Archipel.
