cal models, some of which take account of state depen- evolution of female-only care, females would have been a

dence and stochasticity. There has also been an effort to more limited resource for male reproductive success,
consider the feedback loops between parenting decisions allowing females to demand parental investment from

and mating decisions. Some of these models were mo- males in return for mating access. Using a formal parsi-
tivated by the growing consensus that parental care is one mony approach, Tullberg et al. (2002) also examined the
of the main battlefields for conflict between the sexes. origins of parental care in birds and reached similar con-
New mathematical models have been essential in under- clusions. Their historical analysis indicates where on the
standing aspects of these conflicts. phylogenetic tree various care forms evolved. These

Motivated by the growing interest in parental care and authors show that female-only care appears to have
by the fact that theoretical and empirical investigations evolved in an ancestor to birds and that biparental care
were being conducted largely independently, we decided evolved from female-only care in the ancestors to modern
to organize a workshop. We aimed to create an environ- day birds. When combined, these papers constrain the
ment in which new results and ideas in parental care potential evolutionary scenarios and provide a starting
research could be reviewed and discussed, where theor- point for more detailed analyses of avian mating systems.
eticians and empiricists could interact and where the The evolution of parental care should be driven by the

major unresolved issues and future directions could be relative costs and benefits of providing care (Maynard
outlined. The workshop took place in the village of Smith 1977; Clutton-Brock 1991). To investigate this,
Bernried in Bavaria (southern Germany) from 4—7 August researchers have used the variation within and among
2000, and was attended by 44 participants from around animal groups in the extent to which males and females
the world. The papers in this theme issue reflect the key care for offspring. Consistent differences in life histories
contributions presented at the workshop. We hope that and ecologies among closely related species that differ in