approach to this research bridges the gap between funda- localized primarily to the brain. Gene therapy holds con-
mental cell biology and medicine. siderable promise for this family of diseases and evaluation
We now have an understanding of how glycolipids help in mouse disease models is a major way forward in evalu-
organize specialized regions of the cell surface of eukary- ating different gene delivery systems and evaluating effi-
otic cells so that specific signalling events can be orches- cacy.
trated. It is also clear that they help traffic molecules Small-molecule drugs have recently emerged as candi-

within the cell and may play a role in sorting events and date therapeutics for GSL diseases. The approach is to
the targeting of molecules to their correct intracellular use inhibitors of GSL biosynthesis to slow the rate of GSL
organelles. We also understand considerably more about synthesis and thereby reduce the number of GSL mol-
how the immune system responds to both endogenous ecules the cells degrade. These drugs have been evaluated
and exogenous lipids through the recent interest in the in multiple mouse models of GSL storage diseases, includ-
CD1 family of surface molecules. Glycolipids may in fact, ing those with brain involvement. In all cases efficacy has
provide tools to manipulate the immune system to inter- been demonstrated. Clinical trials in type 1 Gaucher
vene in certain disease states. disease have also demonstrated efficacy in man and
One of the major advances in recent years has been the recently the first drug in this class of compounds has been
manipulation of genes involved in glycolipid biosynthesis given a positive opinion recommending approval for its
and catabolism to probe basic glycosphingolipid (GSL) use in Europe. As the evaluation of patients in the clinical
functions, and to generate authentic mouse models of dis- trial is still ongoing, updates on patients after 3 years of
eases of GSL catabolism. This has been a major catalyst therapy are discussed in this meeting. Stimulated by a
to gaining functional insights and has greatly aided the potential side-effect of the GSL biosynthesis inhibitor in
evaluation of therapeutic strategies in these diseases. The Gaucher patients, a study of an aspect of the natural
diseases of glycolipid catabolism are termed GSL storage history of Gaucher disease has also been investigated.
diseases and the majority result from defects in lysoso- Type 1 Gaucher disease is classically described as non-
mal enzymes. neuronopathic. However, it appears that this division may