convective processes. Those are the two major, far-from-equilibrium, dissipative structures on a planet—convection
and life—and they must be coupled. These are coupled today, and they must have been coupled from the beginning.
So that is why we had this idea of starting right from scratch from an alkaline spring, and a lot happens early on,
including differentiation.

W. Martin. One last point, and then I promise not to say anything else, unless asked. The point is, both Tom and
Ford have made a statement that is to a certain degree correct, and that is that the last common ancestor of all
cells must have had, say, a thousand genes. But when you say a thousand genes, what you actually mean is a
thousand biochemical functions. Now we know very well—I am not going to go into class one and class two
enzymes—there is a broad diversity of enzymes, particularly across the archaebacteria and the eubacteria, that
catalyse exactly the same reaction but they do it completely differently. Yes, they are completely different enzymes;
they may have a different mechanism, but the product is the same. So what is generally conserved? I know for a
fact that what is conserved in the evolution of biochemical pathways is the set of reactions, the set of intermediates,
the chemical conversions, for example the Calvin cycle—but the individual enzymes that catalyse those reactions
are completely different. A specific prediction of our model is, for example, that such fundamental processes as
amino acid biosynthesis or purine biosynthesis should be fundamentally different in the archaebacteria and the
eubacteria.

Now, people are working on purine biosynthesis in archaebacteria, and one of the steps that is catalysed by tetra-
hydrofolate in eubacteria and eukaryotes is catalysed by a formate-dependent reaction in archaebacteria by a funda-
mentally different chemistry and a fundamentally different enzyme. That is highly compatible with the type of
organism that we are addressing. My warning here is not to make the assumption; you are just assuming—and this
is a criticism, a direct criticism—that because it has the same functions, it also has the same genes and the same
enzymes, and I think if you look you will find fundamental differences at certain steps, and that would provide
evidence in favour of our case. So that is it.