One contribution of 18 to a Discussion Meeting Issue ‘Replicating and any molecular computation that is performed at a
reshaping DNA: a celebration of the jubilee of the double helix’. promoter? Is it all ‘feed-forward’, or is there some more

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B (2004) 359, 153-154 153 © 2003 The Royal Society
DOI 10.1098/rstb.2003.1373


154 S. Brenner Perspectives

complex conditional calculation that would read in logical approach to look at the evolution of genomes, and when
terms ‘if x and y but not z’? In other words, is there a one does this one may find a completely different picture
committee of transduction factors, sometimes with a very emerging. I say this because I think that people have paid
strong chairman with a veto? Or is there a committee with little attention to elementary facts, such as that genes are
a consensus, or is there one protein that just obeys orders not individual balls in a bag but rather that they are linked,
and does what it is supposed to do? I think that all of these and I think there is a lot to be learnt from looking at link-
questions about the architecture of controlling elements age relationships. For example, we can find out what
need to be answered. genes have been together for long periods of time simply
Now, I would like to come to more global issues, of by looking at puffer fish DNA, where we have identified
which we have seen some excellent beginnings today. The five genes in exactly the same order, in the human. We
study of diversity is going to be very important and per- know that there has been no rearrangement in those areas
haps we do not need model organisms anymore. This feel- and, of course, we can begin to study changes in ancestral
ing arose after a discussion that I had with people who intergenic regions. This information becomes very
wanted to take 15 inbred strains of mice, breed them all important if we are going to try to reconstruct evolutionary
together to generate 30 000 strains, and then train mouse events over very long periods of time. Being able to see
phenotypers to measure their blood pressure, saliva and how fish DNA works is also highly important for con-