the scientific status and novelty of the paper, the general importance of the topic to our
readership and the coverage that the topic has received in our previous issues. If the decision
is to proceed, then the paper will be sent out for peer review to at least two experts and, if
the subject is contentious, to more. They advise the Editor on whether to accept the paper
with minor or major revisions or to reject it. Their recommendations, and the Editor’s
decision, are based on well-defined criteria, which can be summarized as follows: does the
paper deal with a scientifically interesting and important topic; have the experiments been
properly conducted; and are the conclusions justified by the results obtained? These criteria,
and these alone, determine whether a paper is finally accepted for publication, although we
often ask for stylistic changes for reasons of clarity.

The peer-review system that we use is generally regarded as the best guarantee that pub-
lished papers meet high scientific standards. The system was, in fact, introduced by the
Council of The Royal Society at its meeting of 1 March 1664, when this journal was estab-
lished. At that meeting, it was decided that papers published in Philosophical Transactions
should first be reviewed by members of the Society. This is the first recorded instance of
the peer-review system, which is now used by virtually all scientific and learned journals.
No paper has ever been published in Philosophical Transactions without being peer reviewed
first, and standards for reviewing papers have consistently risen.

Because the papers published in this issue deal with a topic that is sensitive and of pro-
found interest to science and society, and because of our perception that the results will be
used in the debate over the introduction of GM crops, we introduced a more rigorous system
for their review. We set up a special Advisory Board of distinguished scientists and experts
in the field, drawn from four countries. We also asked the eminent broadcaster and naturalist