under the Planetary Biodiversity Inventories programme However, should one go further and shift the entire
(run by NSF; www.nsf.gov/pbi). The results of these pro- higher taxon’s classification from its present distributed
jects will be Web-available taxonomies of four major model in the literature to a ‘unitary’ model, a one-stop-
groups on a global scale—more than just lists of names, shop on the Web? One of us (C.G.) believes this is the
the taxonomies are intended to be information and con- way forward. A first Web revision would list and describe
tent rich and include descriptions and links to other rel- a series of accepted and unaccepted taxa, explicitly linked
evant sites. as previously to type specimens, and these would become

We have discussed electronic as opposed to paper publi- the set of names available for the group. Nomenclature

cation, and of presenting taxonomic syntheses on the would essentially begin again for that group, as happened
Web. But this does not alter the basic distributed nature for the prokaryotes in 1980. Henceforth there would no
of taxonomy, the fact that the raw details of the subject requirement to delve into the paper literature, except for
are scattered over many different publications, some of historical interest. The Web-based treatment would form
which may be quite obscure. In the modern information the foundation upon which higher-level, more general
age, should we be moving from a distributed to a unitary user-orientated material would be built. An end-user
model for taxonomy, with the treatment of particular taxa might start to use the site like a field guide or popular
curated and policed by a central authority? Or is it possible monograph, but then be able to delve as deeply as
to achieve the same ends without central authority, purely required into the technical information such as types or
through community-wide consensus, the model behind details of fine morphology. Such a site would need careful
projects such as the International Plant Name Index, the and continuous curation and organization, and this raises
ICTVdb (database of the International Committee on two possible problems. First, the natural organizations to
Taxonomy of Viruses), or the Global Plant Species act as hosts for unitary taxonomies are our great museums
Checklist (see below)? Can bottom-up initiatives succeed and herbaria, but this could only occur if they were
or must there be rules dictated from top-down? resourced appropriately. The idea needs substantial new