D
3 a

Figure 3. Sequence data within Salmonella. (a) Neighbour-joining tree of genotypes within Salmonella. (b) Neighbour-joining
tree of genotypes, mismatch distributions between genotypes and STRUCTURE analysis of sources of ancestry within enterica. Both
the neighbour-joining tree and the STRUCTURE analysis identified three groups: clade A (red); clade B (green); and Typhi (blue).
However, clades A and B are only weakly differentiated, as indicated by intermediate bootstrap support (60%) and between-
clade distances, extensive allele sharing and a continuum of ancestry. (c) Neighbour-joining trees shown for each MLST
fragment. Sequences from strains from clade A are shown as filled circles, from clade B as open circles, from Typhi as filled
triangles and from other subspecies or bongori as open squares.

(e.g. figure 1c). The data obey the predictions of divergence, to approximately match the Salmonella data.
extensive genetic exchange within species and limited In fact, laboratory measurements show even stronger
exchange between species. Further, according to our homology dependence. For wild-type strains, the barrier
reconstruction, all the speciation events involve the between Typhi and another strain of enterica is too strong
ancestor of enterica, consistent with the prediction that to allow meaningful recombination (Zahrt & Maloy
only diverse species can speciate. Thus, a simple model 1997). When the mutS gene is knocked out, recombina-
of neutral divergence with homology-dependent tion is increased 100-fold, which is comparable to that
recombination can explain the principal features of assumed in our simulations for strains with that degree of
variation observed across the entire genus. divergence (table 1). Thus, most of the recombination in
In our simulations, we chose parameters such that Salmonella may occur when the mismatch repair system is
speciation would occur at approximately 2% sequence impaired by genetic or other (Matic et al. 2000) factors.

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2006)
