insular (Phillips et al. 1997). In these examples, the the amygdala, but this process is not specifically social.
activity was elicited, not by the emotion directly, but by
observing the expression of the emotion in a face. 3. TEMPORAL POLES
Thus, through its role in recognizing expressions such (a) Social scripts

as fear, the amygdala has a role in social interactions. Through experience, we build up a rich store of

knowledge about the world (Schank & Abelson 1977)
(a) Prejudice that is important for our ability to mentalize. We learn
But this is not its only role. The amygdala is also facts about specific people: what they look like, where
activated by presentation of faces rated as untrust- they live, whether they are trustworthy and so on. We also

worthy (Winston et al. 2002). This is an example of | learn facts about social situations: the moment-to-
prejudice since the faces were of people unknown to the moment changes in behaviour appropriate to the
participants in the experiment. Race prejudice has been __ situations in which people frequently find themselves
studied in a number of imaging paradigms and and also how feelings and dispositions affect the
amygdala activation has been consistently found in behaviour of people in these situations. Damage to the
association with the unconscious fear that is elicited by temporal poles can impair the ability to use this
viewing the face of someone from another race. When knowledge (Funnell 2001). This observation is consist-
white Americans were shown the faces of unknown ent with the suggestion that the temporal poles are
black Americans, activity was observed in the amygdala | convergence zones, where simpler features from different
(Phelps et al. 2000). The magnitude of the activity in modalities are brought together to define, by their
the amygdala correlated with implicit measures of race conjunction, unique individuals and situations (Damasio
prejudice. However, amygdala damage does not et al. 2004). Through this convergence of information,
remove race prejudice (Phelps et al. 2003), and our understanding of an object can be modified by the