Two further issues are highly relevant for under- intrinsic factors, and if they have correlated effects on
standing the relationship between variation in T levels a suite of behavioural traits, they may cause
and phenotypic traits and are unfortunately often ‘behavioural syndromes’ or ‘personalities’ (Sih et al.
ignored by ecologists. They are highlighted elsewhere 2004). Thus, this view emphasizes the role of
in this issue (Ball & Balthazart 2008) and we will only testosterone in creating specialized phenotypes (e.g.
mention them briefly here. First, in the context of Gil & Faure 2007; Sellers et al. 2007).
sexual selection theory, studies on the costs and The second approach is the almost exact opposite.
benefits of maintaining high or low T levels usually Here, it is emphasized that individuals often have to
assume a dose-dependent relationship between T and respond quickly to environmental changes, and that
fitness-related traits. However, this relationship can hormones such as T allow behavioural flexibility
have different forms and the evidence for dose (Oliveira 2004). This view—adopted by many beha-
dependency appears limited (reviewed in Hews & vioural endocrinologists—focuses on extrinsic effects
Moore 1997; Adkins-Regan 2005). In fact, variation on hormone levels, and it implies that T levels can vary
in the duration of the period of elevated T might be widely within individuals depending on the social
more important to understand costs/benefits of T than context and the (recent) individual history. Indeed,
variation in absolute T levels (see §2b). Second, as there is plenty of evidence to suggest that not only do
stressed by many endocrinologists, hormones are only hormones influence behaviour, but that behaviour also
part of the endocrine system and investigating them in influences hormone levels. Behavioural feedback on
isolation can lead to misleading conclusions (Dufty endocrine function has been well studied in the context
et al. 2002). Hormonal responses occur only if the of social interactions, related to male-male competition
appropriate receptors are available in or on the cell. and female choice (e.g. Wingfield et al. 19873
Receptors can vary in number, affinity and specificity, Hirschenhauser et al. 2003; Oliveira 2004; Goymann
and these properties might differ systematically among et al. 2007).
individuals (Adkins-Regan 2005; Ball & Balthazart The distinction between both approaches has rarely
2008). Moreover, the number of receptors is not static, been made explicit, perhaps owing to a lack of