although ‘tak[ing] social science perspectives on global dynamic nature of the land-use change processes (e.g.
environmental change’ (http://www.ihdp.uni-bonn.de) Asner et al. 2006; Morton et al. 2006; Alves 2007a),

presented a challenge for the experiment. even if these advances were confined to LBA original
Nobre & Becker (2001) place the incorporation of — objectives for the most part.
the seventh, human dimension component into the Another aspect of the problem is related to the

LBA in December 2000, i.e. well after LBA field perception of the very concept of human dimensions
research has been already initiated. Referring to it as among LBA participants. One prevailing position was
‘the human dimensions of Amazénia development’, that a human dimensions component would be a place
they use IHDP as a reference for carrying it out, and for social science studies, according to the model that
consider that ‘research on Human Dimensions must research components were to ‘serve their specific
necessarily encompass the other six scientific themes’, disciplinary objectives’. In fact, the Scientific Steering
and ‘the key question (...) in Amazonia [would be] Committee recognized the relevance of the social
about the dynamics of regional land occupation’. For sciences, sponsoring a survey of social science pro-
them, research should include the study of ‘public duction on Amazénia (Becker 2007), and a workshop
policies which determine land use in the region’ and to debate gaps of knowledge in that field (Becker et al.
‘attitudes and practices of social agents and sectors in 2007), emulating the 1992-1995 strategy to implement
regard to use of natural resources’, and focus on three the human dimensions component. In addition, the
central issues: ‘(i) deforestation (...), (ii) the restoration Committee took the initiative to bring in a few
of degraded areas (...) (iii) and the consolidation of social scientists.

sustainable productive activities’. Still, Schor (2005) observed different perceptions on

Indeed, most of the human dimensions initiatives the subject among LBA participants, including a view