that such funds are likely to be monopolized by large- consequences of current development patterns in
scale farmers and small producers would be excluded Amazonia upon both the environment and on people’s
(ESP 2007). Care would have to be taken to ensure that _ livelihoods. In spite of the many challenges which must
support is directed to those areas characterized by be faced, therefore, it is far better to be RED than dead.
on-going tension over access to land and natural
resources, which places serious pressure on the forest.
There is much potential for targeting small farmers in
precarious situations who could benefit from PES and be
persuaded to modify their activities. One significant ENDNOTES
category involves land reform beneficiaries, whose
settlement projects currently occupy 8% of Amazonia, 2007. Several project sites were visited in Tocantins and Acre, where
but where the level of deforestation is four times the interviews were conducted with farmers, local NGOs and state
regional average. This is due to the fact that small government officials. The author would like to express his gratitude to
farmers, lacking alternative, viable models or government staff at Brazil’s Ministries of the Environment and Agrarian
support, continue with slash-and-burn agriculture and Development for their valuable assistance, as well as to Proambiente

pasture formation as their major livelihood strategies project staff and beneficiaries interviewed during fieldwork. Special
(Epoca 2007) thanks are due to Shigeo Shiki, Hurben Corréa da Silva and Brent

: : Millikan for their support.
Yet many small producers, including the bulk of 2 although IBAMA refuses to publish figures on payment of fines, it is

those participating in Proambiente, while not exactly generally thought to be around 3-5%. The state government of Mato
living in harmony with nature, are predisposed in some Grosso, for example, has made it known that just 2% of its
measure towards adopting more diversified, sustain- environmental fines are collected (ISA 2006).