such violations can, in fact, be optimal when decisions ina body and environment, which cannot be attributed to
are state-dependent and when choice options persist specific sub-components of brain architecture. In other
into the future. Another axiom of standard rationality is words, it is plausible that an animal may ‘flip’ from one
independence from irrelevant alternatives, the notion integrated pattern of behavioural output to another

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2007)


Introduction. Modelling natural action selection T.J. Prescott et al. 1523

without some identifiable internal ‘switch’ being thrown. balance of basal ganglia output to both winning and
On the other hand, theoretical arguments can be losing channels. While the differences between these
presented, based, for instance, on the benefits that accrue alternative accounts can seem relatively subtle, the fact
from modularity (Wagner & Altenberg 1996; Prescott that they are fully specified computationally means that
et al. 1999; Bryson 2005), to suggest that biological they have the capacity to generate different predictions
control systems may include specialized action-selection to be investigated and tested against empirical data
components. Hence, one important debate in this field is (Gurney et al. 2004).
whether there are specialized mechanisms for action A significant focus of current debate is on the balance
selection in animal nervous systems, and, if so, where _ between intrinsic basal ganglia mechanisms and extrinsic
these might be found (Prescott 2007, for an evolutionary = mechanisms elsewhere in the brain in deciding what
perspective on this question). actions are selected. For Cisek (2007), the selection of
Redgrave et al. (1999) have proposed that, to be visually guided reaching movements within primate
considered as a candidate action-selection mechanism, fronto-parietal cortex depends largely upon intra-cortical
a neural sub-system should exhibit the following mechanisms, inhibitory and excitatory, with the basal
properties. First, it should have inputs that carry ganglia and prefrontal cortex acting to bias this selection