beyond perceptual selection to account for the so-called 1969). To illustrate this argument, Seth (2007)
‘value-based’ decisions in which alternatives are describes a simple model in which action selection
compared on the basis of their match to a set of internal arises from the joint activity of parallel, loosely coupled
motivations as well as to sensory signals. They discuss two sensorimotor processes.
examples of apparent irrationality (see above and
Houston er al. 2007): risk-aversion, where humans and
animals prefer the less risky of the two alternatives that are 8. ACTION SELECTION IN SOCIAL CONTEXTS
equated for expected value, and preference reversal, In nature, action selection is rarely purely an individual
where the preference order between the two alternatives matter; rather, adaptive action selection usually
can be reversed by the introduction of a third, irrelevant, involves a social context. As mentioned above, Seth
choice option. The LCA model can account for these (2007) shows that the apparently irrational behaviour
phenomena given a non-linear utility function which is described by Herrnstein’s (1961) ‘matching law’ can, in
applied to the difference in value between each alternative fact, be optimal in a semi-social context. This result
and a ‘referent’, which may correspond to the present illustrates that action-selection behaviour that is adaptive

(or expected) state of the decision maker. in an environment that includes competing conspecifics
Stafford & Gurney (2007) focus on the Stroop task, in may be ‘irrational’ in an isolated individual.
which subjects have to name the ink colour of letter It is important to note that in Seth’s model the

strings that spell out the name of a (congruent or individuals are not explicitly societal—there are no
incongruent) colour. Previously, Cohen et al. (1990) direct costs or benefits associated with social
showed that a model which used a response mechanism interactions. Agents in the model only interact
similar to the LCA model just described could account —_ indirectly via their effects on resource distribution in
for the basic Stroop phenomenon. Stafford & Gurney _ the environment. Bryson et al. (2007) investigate a
(2007) show that by introducing a response-selection similarly minimalist model of factors that influence the