A typical teaching scenario is as follows. The mother different signallers may have different attitudes to the
first establishes eye contact with the infant, the Same object. By 18 months, infants recognize that
mother then looks at and points to an object and different people have different attitudes to the same
the mother names the object. The first signal in the object. This is the same age at which infants begin to
process, the mother looking at the infant, is not just a show an understanding of pretence (Friedman & Leslie
means of attracting the infant’s attention, but it is also 2007), recognizing that their mother has a special
an ostensive gesture (Sperber & Wilson 1995). An attitude to a banana, by pretending it is a telephone.

ostensive gesture indicates that the signal that follows . But once we realize that different signallers have
will be a deliberate communication about something _ different attitudes to objects, how do we decide which is

of relevance to the receiver, ‘I am about to tell you the ‘correct’ attitude? However we make this decision,
something useful’. the mere fact that we have made it brings in all sorts of

Infants show special sensitivity to the ‘ostensive’ interesting social processes. Does the correct attitude
cues that signal the teacher’s communicative intention depend upon the context? Are some people privileged
to manifest new and relevant knowledge about a signallers whose instructions are always treated as
referent object. This kind of signalling is what occurs valid? In the early stages of infancy, the mother usually
when learning by instruction is intended. For example, has this privileged status. Is there a standard or normal
the rapid learning of the names for things that occurs _ attitude to objects from which a few people deviate?
during infancy seems to depend upon the infant This is why we can refer to some people as phobics
recognizing the referential intentions of other people —_ because their attitude to objects (e.g. birds) is non-
(Bloom 2002). In other words, an infant remembers a _— standard. Do we define out-groups as people with
name when he or she recognizes that the adult is systematically different attitudes to objects from us?
deliberately naming the object for his or her benefit. An The point I am making here is that, when we acquire