year in which they turned 7 to the year of onset (and it 4. DISCUSSION
could possibly be up to 7 years longer). The range of | Epidemiologically, kuru is defined by its essential clinical
likely incubation period in the seven males in table 1 is features of cerebellar ataxia, its subacute, progressive
39-56 years. Compared with the UK population, the course and its fatal outcome (Alpers 2005). Neuro-
people of the kuru region, even now, have a relatively low pathological confirmation was obtained in a small
life expectancy; hence, many long incubation cases of proportion of cases in the past, but this was of major
kuru would have died of some other cause and would not significance in characterizing kuru as a transmissible
have been detected. The proportion of such cases spongiform encephalopathy (in fact, it was the key to
relative to those of shorter incubation period will | developing the concept of such a disease entity, once
therefore be underestimated in the study described transmission to the chimpanzee had been achieved;

here. Nevertheless, what we have been able to demon- Fowler & Robertson 1959; Hadlow 1959; Klatzo er al.
strate is the fact that incubation periods of this length do 1959; Beck et al. 1966; Gajdusek et al. 1966). All the 11
occur in human prion diseases. recent patients in the present series were determined

through the same process of epidemiological surveillance
(h) Genetic analysis as had been conducted in the past and the results are

Results of genetic analysis in these patients have been therefore entirely consistent with case ascertainment
reported elsewhere (Collinge et al. 2006) and are throughout the kuru epidemic. In one case, an autopsy
summarized here and compared with those in the was obtained (which is a higher proportion than was
healthy South Fore population. DNA was available for possible to achieve in the past). This gave neuropatho-
analysis in 10 out of 11 kuru patients and 8 out of 10 logical confirmation of kuru, which is important in
were heterozygous at polymorphic residue 129 of PRNP validating the epidemiological and clinical findings
(table 1). Allele frequencies at PRNP 129 in 140 reported here. The autopsy enabled many other studies