
observations by probing the dynamics of decision-
punishments as traditionally defined. Specifically, the related activity in the LIP area using a virtual foraging
circuit connecting midbrain dopamine neurons to the task (Sugrue et al. 2004). In that experiment, the
ventral striatum and prefrontal cortex appears to be rewards associated with each of two targets fluctuated
crucial for processing information about rewards over time. Under these conditions, monkeys tended to
(Schultz 2000; Schultz & Dickinson 2000). For match the rate of choosing each target to its relative rate
example, animals will work to receive stimulation of reinforcement. Moreover, the responses of individual
delivered via electrodes implanted in the dopaminergic LIP neurons to a particular target corresponded to the
ventral tegmental area (VTA), lateral hypothalamus or relative rate of reward gained from choosing it on recent
medial forebrain bundle, which connects the VTA to trials, with the greatest weight placed on the most recent
the ventral striatum (Olds & Milner 1954; Carlezon & trials. Together, these and other studies suggest that
Chartoff 2007). In fact, animals will preferentially work simple behavioural decisions may be computed by
for such intracranial self-stimulation, to the exclusion scaling neuronal responses associated with a particular
of acquiring natural reinforcers such as food or water stimulus or movement by its value, thus modifying the
(Routtenberg & Lindy 1965; Frank & Stutz 1984). likelihood of reaching the threshold for eliciting a

Electrophysiological recordings from dopaminergic specific motor action (Gold & Shadlen 2001).

neurons show that these cells respond to unpredicted
primary rewards, such as food and water, as well as to
conditioned stimuli that predict such rewards (Schultz 4. UNCERTAINTY AND DECISION MAKING
2000; Schultz & Dickinson 2000; figure 2). Moreover, Early ethological models of behaviour assumed that
dopamine neuron responses scale with both reward animals have complete knowledge of the environment
magnitude and reward probability (Fiorillo ez al. 2003; and that reward contingencies are deterministic