
Laser ablation studies in zebrafish have demon-
strated that the parapineal is essential for the normal
development of habenular lateralization. In larvae
the left Hb innervates the dIPN, but in the other 50 _lacking a parapineal, both habenulae display patterns
per cent the parapineal migrates to the right and the LR of gene expression and neuropil organization similar to
origin of axons in the dorsal and ventral IPN is perfectly those seen in the wild-type right habenula, and both
reversed (Concha et al. 2000; Aizawa et al. 2005). sides project predominantly to the vIPN (Concha et al.
Thus, Nodal signalling is not required for the 2003; Gamse et al. 2003, 2005; Bianco et al. 2008).
development of neural asymmetry, but rather it appears | However, subtle LR differences are retained in the
to bias a stochastic laterality decision, to ensure molecular and neuroanatomical characteristics of the
consistent population laterality. Recently, Carl et al. | epithalamus (Concha er al. 2003; Bianco et al. 2008).
(2007) and Inbal er al. (2007) have shown that proper Furthermore, despite the fact that they both target the
regulation of Wnt/Axin/B-catenin signalling and func- vIPN, the axons of left- and right-sided habenular
tioning of Six3 proteins is required during gastrulation neurons retain distinct terminal morphologies (Bianco
to repress Nodal signalling; this is an essential et al. 2008). This suggests that the parapineal does not
prerequisite to allow later unilateral activation of the  SPecify LR identity in a binary manner, but rather it
pathway exclusively on the left side of the brain. acts in concert ; with other, as yet unidentified,

In addition to understanding how the laterality of | d¢velopmental signals to amplify LR asymmetry.
neural asymmetries is specified, progress has been ‘These signals would then account for the maintenance
made in elucidating how asymmetry itself emerges in of subtle lateralization following parapineal ablation.
the DDC and resolving the developmental signalling The mechanism by which the parapineal acts and
mechanisms that control this process. the molecular players involved in its signalling is as yet
