examines the role of early multisensory experience in potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD).
establishing coordinated maps of visual and auditory Following in the footsteps of archetypal Hebbian
space and details modifications to the neural circuits learning, a number of models have evolved based on
underpinning spatial hearing that can be induced with the rate of pre- and post-synaptic neural firing (rate-
and without the influence of the visual system. based models), or differences in timing between pre- and
post-synaptic firing (timing-based models). Perhaps one
of the most influential exemplar of the former class is the
3. WHAT ARE THE CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR BCM model (Bienenstock et al. 1982), which incorpor-
NEURODYNAMICS OF LEARNING? ates a ‘sliding’ modification threshold, operating between
Returning to our earlier example of the wine con- LTP and LTD. A range of biophysical models have also
noisseur, it is reasonable to assume that, at birth, we are been developed, most of which are based on the role of
all endowed with the same neural hardware. Given this calcium gradients in the induction of synaptic plasticity
fact, it is important to understand what experience- (Gamble & Koch 1987; Yang et al. 1999).
dependent changes to the functional properties of brain Bidirectional synaptic plasticity resulting from
circuits and central structures enable changes in modification of visual input (lid suture) can be
perceptual ability. The wine expert illustrates that considered in three stages. First, LTD weakens the
sensory learning can and does occur later in adulthood: response from the deprived eye. Following this,
indeed, learning is generally viewed as a lifelong process. prolonged deprivation produces changes in the modifi-
Yet it is just after birth, during a ‘sensitive period’ of — cation threshold. This, in turn, supports potentiation of
development, that experience-dependent changes are responses, via LTP, of the open eye. The first step in
most pronounced. Although we are born with rudimen- this three-stage model has been widely investigated,
tary cortical circuitry in place, normal development but, here, work is presented that examines in detail the
requires rich sensory experiences. Classically, the roleof | neural mechanisms that govern the later two stages
sensory experience has been studied by manipulating (Smith ez al. 2009). The next paper examines the roles
sensory input and charting the consequent structural of candidate molecules and mechanisms in mediating