the stimulus. But for this type of invariance, all the Invariance could be manifest in cells that fire for all
information needed for the match is present in the exemplars of one category and none of any others. But
input: an image-plane rotation, translation, or scaling other possibilities exist. Invariance could also arise
‘aligns’ the stimulus for matching. What about ‘hidden’ from a population of category-specific neurons that still
parts of three-dimensional objects, which we are able to maintain selectivity for some examples within the
recognise despite rotations in depth, revealing new category. For example, basic-level categories such as
features of the image and hiding others? trees and fish (Vogels 1999), or trained categories of
Object recognition from different views may occur as image morphs from virtual ‘cat’? and ‘dog’ stimuli
the result of a transformation of the object until it (Freedman et al. 2003), evoke responses in IT. These
matches a single stored three-dimensional description responses discriminated categories, not by showing
of an object, or based on structural descriptions of the similar responses across all members within a category,
key elements of the three-dimensional structure but by showing some preference for many category
(‘object centred descriptions’: Marr 1982; Biederman members. In fact, cells with broad tuning (a distributed
1987; Ullman 1989). Alternatively, view invariance code) but favouring one category over another
may arise from experience: with a sufficient number of | produced the best decoding of categories (Thomas
views of an object, novel views may be a close enough et al. 2001). Thus, it is from the neural population

match to one of the collection of learned views (‘viewer- activity, and not necessarily exclusive ‘category cells’,
centred descriptions’: Poggio & Edelman 1990; that category membership can be extracted.
Logothetis et al. 1994). In practice, both view-based Sometimes the shape space among parametrically

and view-invariant codes have been observed, though varied stimuli appears to be the main coding dimen-
the preponderance of view-selective cells strongly sion. Op de Beeck et al. (2001) did not find cells that
suggests viewer-centred descriptions. After extensive differentiated between two categories, nor was there
training (~ 600 000 trials per category) of monkeys on any ‘boundary’ effect by which selectivity was the