seldom under stimulus-free conditions. Consider the it from the burden of being continuously online and
following scenario: riding your bicycle while holding a processing. This can be accomplished by breaking up the
cup of coffee. The combination of muscle contraction time line of the motor task into a series of smaller units
and relaxation at any given moment is often over which the controller must operate. Control would be
determined as a movement sequence and executed in discontinuous in time and thus the operations of such a
response to teleceptive stimuli (hearing and vision), system would occur at discrete intervals of a ‘dz’. We must
kinaesthetic feedback (your feeling of the bicycle and of consider an important consequence of this approach,
the cup of coffee) and your intentions (drink your coffee namely that the movements controlled by this type of
and get to the your destination as soon as possible). It is pulsatile system would not be executed continuously
generally assumed that the optimal controller is one in the sense of demonstrating obligatorily smooth
that produces the smoothest possible movements. To kinematics, but rather would be executed in a discon-
minimize the accelerative transients that produce tinuous fashion series of muscle twitches that are linked
jerkiness in movement, this ideal implies continuous together. Motor physiologists have known this fact for
monitoring at a sampling rate of the order of over a century: movements are not executed continu-
milliseconds or faster (as in the case of your auditory ously, but are discontinuous in nature. Indeed, as early
system), as well as feedforward and feedback influences as 1886, E.A. Schafer indicated that human movement
on the selected activation sequences. Yet, we may was discontinuous.

evaluate quantitatively whether it is computationally More recently, Valbo & Wessberg (1993) and
possible for the brain to control movement in such a Wessberg & Valbo (1995) found prominent 8-10 Hz
continuous, online manner. discontinuities in slow and ‘smooth’ finger movements.

From the heuristic description above, and given that They suggested that such discontinuities are most likely
there are 50 or so key muscles in the hand, arm and generated from the CNS levels above the spinal cord, as
shoulder, which one uses to reach for the milk carton, the latencies of the stretch reflex were incompatible with