he used his Rockefeller grant to buy me an excellent whom I had trained for the purpose and also taught to
Bolex movie camera—which is still in use. I have many read and write. When we weren’t waiting for someone
reasons to be grateful to Norrie Robson. to die we were walking in the forest or through village
The hospital medical officer when I arrived in Okapa gardens to see patients. We became a close-knit team,
was Andrew Gray. Andrew was very helpful in settling and have remained life-long friends. I pay tribute here
me in and very solicitous of my well-being—and that to the work of Mabage Ubenumu, Ove Yaraki, Tuniye
of my family. He supported all my plans, such as to base Aboru, Awusa Mena, Auyana Winagaiya and Kene
my fieldwork in a village in the South Fore, when he Nabu. Mabage later died of kuru, but I am delighted
might have preferred to have another doctor on the that his wife Kainamba (whom I also know well, from
station. Previously he had contributed to the research the village of Waisa) was able to celebrate the ‘end of
studies of the Adelaide group, and he was equally kuru’ at the meeting in London (Mabage 2008).
supportive of the work of Carleton Gajdusek—despite Tuniye and Kene have also died and Auyana and Ove
the fact that certain authorities in Port Moresby had were not well enough to travel to London for the
given him strict instructions to do all he could to thwart meeting. Auyana assisted me with kuru surveillance for
Carleton’s activities! Andrew and I agreed about the 30 years. Later, the field team changed a little and was
value of Carleton’s work—indeed about most things— strengthened by Anua Senavaiyo (see Anua 2008),
and on occasion we combined forces to counteract Igana Alesagu and Kabina Yaragi, all of whom also
government bureaucracy. We also agreed that kuru worked with me for decades. Anua has died and we did
patients and the so-called kuru orphans should be cared not have sufficient funds, unfortunately, to bring Igana
for by their extended families in their home environ- and Kabina to the meeting.
ment. The Lutheran Mission had obtained funds to When the autopsies (limited to the brain) had been
build a hospital to care for kuru patients and children completed and the skin stitched back, the precious
who had lost their mothers from kuru. This was built in sterile samples for inoculation were taken to Okapa by
Okapa. When Andrew as the doctor responsible for the road (walking or driving) and the next day to Lae by air
hospital said that kuru patients would no longer be charter. From Lae they were sent by air in dry ice to