The writer is inclined to attribute much of the confusion which exists with regard to the
breeding and migratory habits of the African elephant to three causes. In the first place,
they are very difficult animals to observe over a period of time in their natural habitat, for
even when the nature of the vegetation allows of their being seen from some distance, they
cover such distances in their diurnal, and particularly nocturnal, wanderings, that it is
impossible to maintain contact with them for long, and a group will split up and rejoin and
mingle with other groups, so that it is impossible to define a ‘herd’. ‘This term, in fact, is
very loosely used, and at present it cannot be said that we know anything of the social
structure of an elephant ‘herd’. The term is perhaps best confined to a geographical
connotation, as it is used by Pitman (1925). In the second place, it is difficult to determine
the sex of an elephant by casual observation, except when the tusks are really large. It
quite frequently happened, in the course of the present work, that a Game Guard reported
shooting a bull when in fact the animal proved to be a cow. The converse error never
occurred. That this error is fairly general is indicated by the reports of the numbers of
cows and bulls shot during control work each year in Uganda, as given in the Game
Warden’s Reports from 1925 onwards. Sir William Gowers has pointed out (in corre-
spondence with the writer) that if the number of bulls reported shot is approximately
correct, it is impossible to explain the continued existance of male elephants in Uganda
unless an extraordinary degree of immigration from surrounding territories is assumed, if
the population was of the order it was estimated to be when control work began. It seems
certain that the number was not greatly under-estimated, and it is obvious that cows do
not in fact greatly outnumber bulls in the present population. Gowers endorses the writer’s
suggestion that the explanation lies partly in the faulty identification of sex. In the same
way, the difficulty of identifying the sex of an individual elephant in many cases may be
expected to lead to confusion in reporting seasonal movements of the animals, and mating