experience ‘musth’ regularly at the same time each year, but others do not. ‘Musth’ does
not occur at the same time in different males, but it is more frequent during the hot season
(in Burma). Ferrier adds that ‘Very occasionally a female elephant in very good condi-
tion exudes fluid from her temporal glands’. During the present investigation it was noted
that, for a considerable part of the year at least, the temporal glands of the African elephant
are active in all individuals of both sexes, including pregnant females and quite young
calves probably not more than two years old. In this respect, therefore, the African
elephant seems to differ from the Indian. At other times of year activity of the temporal
gland was less general, and the observation of peak activity of the gland at the time of year
when mating is thought to be most frequent suggests that the two are indeed related, as has
been generally supposed.

It must be concluded that beyond the fact that mating does occur at all times of year
and is probably more frequent during the dry season, there is a dearth of reliable informa-
tion about the breeding habits of the African elephant, or, for that matter, of the Indian
species in the wild. It is evident that the movements of elephants are governed to some
extent by food and water requirements, but to what extent they are related to breeding
habits, if at all, is uncertain. Continuous observation of a group of elephants would perhaps
be the ideal way of solving such problems, and if it were feasible it would certainly yield
a great deal of interesting information. The difficulties of such work are formidable, how-
ever, and a first step would be the integration and evaluation of the information already
available. Such information is necessarily fragmentary, and very little of it is in published
form, but the experience of European and African hunters, particularly those concerned
in game control and conservation, as distinct from ivory seekers, is far from negligible.
