trast to the layman’s vision of empathy as a unitary ver would vicariously coactivate affective reward areas
system. Many separate cognitive empathy from affective and motor representations of A, but coactivate pain
empathy (Mehrabian & Epstein 1972; Davis 1983; areas together with representations of B. This would
Baron-Cohen et al. 2001) while others additionally dis- lead to assimilating behaviour A but not behaviour B
tinguish motor empathy (Blair 2005). Finally, even through the very mechanisms of individual trial and
affective empathy can be further divided into personal error learning and operant conditioning.

distress (the contagious sharing of others’ distress)

and emotional concern (the wish to help that is trig- (b) Beyond simulation

gered by the distress of others), with these forms devel- A variety of authors have criticized simulation theory
oping at different ages (Preston & de Waal 2002). (ST) based on the fact that it cannot explain all facets
Although the distinctions made by neuroscientists and of social cognition (e.g. Jacob & Jeannerod 2005; Saxe
psychologists differ—the former being driven by 2005; Gallagher 2007) and that we still fail to have con-
neuroanatomical and the latter by functional consider- clusive evidence in humans that the exact same neurons
ations—recent evidence suggests that these distinctions are involved in action perception and execution
may be linked. Affective forms of empathy correlate (Dinstein et al. 2008). As previously discussed, this criti-
with brain activity in affective brain regions (IFO cism also applies to the case of emotions and sensations.
while witnessing the disgust or pleasure of others: We view the first critique as an experimental challenge
Jabbi et al. 2007; and while sharing the pain with a that should inspire researchers in the next decade. As
loved one: Singer et al. 2004). The less affective forms for the second, we believe that it is fruitless to create a
(cognitive perspective taking), however, correlate with competition between simulation views versus more cog-
the activity in non-affective brain regions (premotor nitively inspired ‘mentalizing’ approaches in current
