9. ADVANTAGES OF PHOTOTAXIS light exposure.
Phototaxis can have several advantages for the organism.
This includes the regulation of light exposure of photo-
synthetic algae, the finding of phototrophic organisms 10. HOW CAN PHOTOTAXIS EVOLVE?
for food, the facilitation of larval dispersal or the All phototactic eukaryotes that are able to orient along
increased likelihood of gamete fusion on the surface. a light vector in three dimensions use the same general
The first obvious advantage of phototaxis is for strategy. Eukaryotes evolved such phototactic capacity
photosynthetic organisms that harvest light energy. at least eight times independently (table 1). The mul-
This is why many planktonic algae are phototactic. tiple independent origins of phototaxis in various
These organisms have to find the optimum illumina- eukaryotic groups suggest that it is not too difficult
tion conditions depending on the state of the electron to evolve this behaviour. Our detailed understanding
transport chain and the time of the day (Burns & Rosa of phototactic navigation allows us to define the
1980). The problem is confounded by the fact that necessary cellular and behavioural features and to
unregulated positive phototaxis to the surface layers suggest a plausible order in which these evolved.
is dangerous because it exposes the organisms to The necessary, hence universal features of pelagic,
damaging UV radiation. Phototaxis therefore has to three-dimensional phototactic organisms are the
be tightly controlled. In many algae and other organ- following: (i) polarity and a fixed shape; (ii) spiral
isms, the sign of phototaxis depends on the intensity swimming with cilia; (iii) photosensory molecules
of light so that low intensities elicit a positive response, and a phototransductory cascade that affects ciliary
and high intensities a negative one (e.g. Chlamydomo- beating; and (iv) a shading or refractive body that
nas (Feinleib & Curry 1971), Ochromonas, Euglena ensures the orientation-dependent illumination of the
(Hader et al. 1981)). This switch allows the selection photopigments during axial rotation. Given these com-
of optimum illumination, as the radiance level changes ponents, we can describe the elementary steps through
throughout the day. The sign of phototaxis can which phototaxis probably has evolved in most cases.
