A related question is why opsins have become the Using light as a measure of depth in water is com-
only type of visual photopigment, whereas animals plicated by the fact that the luminance is determined
use both opsins and cryptochromes for non-visual both by the time of day and by the depth. Unless an
photoreception. This is remarkable because organism strictly follows isolumes, it is necessary to
cryptochromes were inherited from the unicellular separate the causes of any luminance changes, such
predecessors of animals (Rubin et al. 2006), but type that time of day and depth in the water can be disen-
II opsins are unique to animals (Larusso er al. 2008) tangled. There are two obvious ways for vertically
and must thus have evolved in an ancestor that already migrating plankton to solve the luminance ambiguity.
possessed cryptochromes. Spontaneous regeneration First, a circadian rhythm can anticipate the time of
of cryptochromes occurs at a reasonable rate (Kennis day, and setting of the clock can be done over many
et al. 2004; Bouly et al. 2007; Losi 2007; Kao et al. light cycles, such that the impact of depth variations
2008), and in this sense, cryptochromes would have can be minimized. The other possibility is to use the
been superior to the ancient bleachable opsin. There fact that the spectral composition of light varies in
are thus likely to be other reasons that made opsins a different ways depending on time and depth (Lythgoe
viable alternative to cryptochromes. It is possible that 1979). The latter has a much stronger influence on
speed and amplification in the signalling pathway spectral composition: clear oceanic water becomes
gave opsins an edge for visual systems in which gradually bluer with depth and coastal water
speed and sensitivity are more important than they becomes greener. Two spectrally different photopigments
are for non-visual roles. An alternative explanation is can form a very robust depth gauge, which is largely
that the spectral sensitivity of opsins is more suited independent of the diel light cycle. Another reason for
to vision in the green light that best penetrates coastal evolution of more than a single photopigment is that

water (500-550 nm), whereas the blue and UV sensi- high sensitivity requires a spectral peak close to the maxi-
tivity of cryptochromes (less than 500 nm) is adequate mum transmission of water, whereas the detection of UV
for non-visual tasks (Gehring & Rosbash 2003). light might be useful for avoiding radiation damage of