over the molecule and easily dissipated as heat. For lower than in vertebrate or insect visual cells, the
the very same reason, biological pigments remove sensitivity would be high enough to detect moonlight.
harmful free radicals and protect the cell from For non-visual luminance monitoring, there is thus no
oxidative damage (McGraw 2005). Short-wavelength need for cilia or microvilli. Indeed, non-visual photo-
light is one cause for free radicals, and biological receptors often lack these conspicuous structures
pigments thus have a dual role in protecting altogether (Gooley et al. 2003; Gotow & Nishi 2007,
against the adverse effects of light. This means that 2008; Van Gelder 2008). Modelling also demonstrates
screening pigments must have been common cellular that phototaxis, which requires directionality with
constituents long before vision evolved in animals. wide angular sensitivities and intermediate integration
If body pigmentation provides some rudimentary times, can function without membrane stacking, but
directionality to a photoreceptor cell, it is easy to see only during the day, and in rather shallow water
how selection could pick up on it and improve the (figure 4; see table S1, electronic supplementary
directionality by synthesis of screening pigment in material). The fact that acoel flatworms have ocelli
the receptor cell or in adjacent cells. As soon as there without cilia or rhabdomeres supports the conclusion
is some directionality (figure la—c), the animal’s own that directional photoreception (presumably for
movements will allow for comparisons of the light phototaxis) does not require membrane stacking
intensity in different directions. This information can (Yamasu 1991). For use at low crepuscular intensities
be used for phototactic orientation towards or away in deeper water or in very turbid water, moderate
from light (for a discussion of phototaxis in planktonic stacking of membrane will help extend the range of
organisms, see Jékely 2009), or it can function as an intensities where phototaxis can be used (figure 4).
optical statocyst for controlling body posture in Directionality, fast response and adaptation acting
relation to the general direction of light. Changing as a temporal high-pass filter are important properties
from non-visual tasks to phototaxis requires major for a photoreceptor that serves phototaxis or functions
changes in the properties of the receptor cells. The rel- as an optical statocyst (figure 5). These properties pass
evant information is no longer the absolute intensities, information about the angular distribution of light in