misses’ (where the reel stopped more than one position task, two ratings were taken on intermittent (1/3) trials: fol-
away from the payline). Within the network of win- lowing selection, subjects were asked ‘How do you rate your

sensitive areas, the direct contrast of near-misses and chances of winning?’, and following outcome, subjects were
full-misses revealed significant and bilateral activation | asked ‘How much do you want to continue to play the
of the ventral striatum and anterior insula by near- —_ 84™e?”. Reprinted from Clark er al. (2009).
miss outcomes (see figure 2b). Thus, although
the objective outcomes were identical on these trial
types (i.e. both non-wins), the brain responded to condition, monetary wins and losses were delivered
the near-misses in a way that was comparable to the at a fixed delay after a predictive stimulus. In the
response to a monetary win. This ‘anomalous’ second condition, the volunteer was told that a
activation may underlie the invigorating effects of | choice response (left or right) would influence whether
near-miss outcomes on gambling play in the studies they won or lost money (in fact, the outcomes were
discussed above by Cote et al. (2003) and Kassinove & fixed). The dorsal striatum was selectively activated
Schare (2001). by monetary wins under the choice condition. The
The slot-machine task was also designed to elicit a study by Yeung et al. (2005) measured event-related
second cognitive distortion, of personal control: on potentials during a similar task, and reported greater
half the trials, the subject was required to choose one feedback negativities, which are thought to derive
of six icons on the left-hand reel as a ‘play icon’. The from a medial frontal locus, when outcomes appeared
subject won if the right-hand reel stopped on that contingent upon the volunteer’s choices, compared
chosen icon. On the remaining trials, the computer with when outcomes required no active choice
chose the play icon and the subjects made a motor (see also Walton et al. 2004).

response to confirm selection. Ratings data taken on a In our fMRI study of the slot-machine task, we were
trial-by-trial basis revealed greater confidence (‘How unable to detect any differences between monetary wins