SC genes was affected. However, as Tagin-Cre mice this effect may be mediated by androgen action in
were originally used to express Cre in vascular other testicular cells such as the peritubular myoid
smooth muscle cells (Holtwick et al. 2002), a contri- cells (Johnston et al. 2004; Tan et al. 2005). The
bution of the latter cells to the testicular phenotype expression of a number of typical SC functional
cannot completely be excluded. marker genes (including transferrin, N-cadherin)
Mice with an ablation of the AR in Leydig cells may also be modulated by androgen action in peritub-
(L-AR~“ Y) were generated using a strain of mice ular cells and this may help to explain the slight
expressing Cre under the control of the AMH type 2 decrease in spermatogenesis observed in animals with
receptor (Amhr2-Cre) (Xu et al. 2007). L-AR a peritubular KO of the AR. Parenthetically, the
mice display a 67 per cent reduction in testicular above described inhibitory effects of androgens on
size, a block in spermatogenesis at the RST stage in spermatogonial differentiation observed in models
most testicular tubules and infertility. L-AR~’” mice such as the jsd mouse apparently also do not depend
show disturbances in the expression of several steroid- on androgen action in SC. In fact, recent experiments
ogenic genes and a marked reduction in T secretion, show that elimination of the AR in SC of jsd mice (by
confirming the need for an active AR for normal the generation of SCARKO-jsd mice) does not restore
Leydig cell development. The decrease in androgen spermatogonial differentiation, whereas treatment of
production may largely account for the observed dis- the same mice with a GnRH antagonist and flutamide
turbances in spermatogenesis. As Amhr2 may also be stimulates recovery of spermatogenesis up to the sper-
expressed in SC (Jeyasuria er al. 2004), a contribution matocyte stage (Wang er al. 2009). Replacement of
of the latter cells to the spermatogenic arrest, however, flutamide by T reverses the stimulatory effect on sper-
cannot completely be excluded. matogonial differentiation, confirming that androgens
are responsible for the observed arrest but also
indicating that this effect is not mediated by the AR

(d) A key role for the SC-AR in SC.