most closely related to Shuvosaurus, and this latter
genus had previously been interpreted as a dinosaur. (Late Triassic—Early Jurassic) of Argentina that are inter-
The dangers of convergence are spelt out by Parker preted as representing the activities of some sort of
et al. (2005) in their description of another archosaur theropodian avialian (‘bird’), and possibly convergent to
Revueltosaurus. This is simply because with the recov- other flying theropods. Centimetric scale bar. Picture cour-
ery of more complete skeletons it has become evident tesy of Ricardo Melchor (Universidad Nacional de la
that isolated teeth (the common currency of much of — Pampea, Argentina). (b) A protistan convergence. The dino-
vertebrate palaeontology), which had routinely been flagellate Haplozoon praxillellae, an intestinal parasite of

assigned to Late Triassic dinosaurs, are just as likely Polychaete worms that has converged on a cestode-like body-
to derive from convergent archosaurian taxa. form, including attachment structures, strobilation and a

In fact, it now transpires that there are a series of hairy covering. Scale bar, 10 mm. Picture courtesy of Brian

striking convergences between archosaur and dinosaur Leander (University of British Columbia).

morphs that go well beyond the theropod-like forms

mentioned above. Thus, among the archosaurs, we why animals seemingly effectively occupying certain
see both carnosaur-like and ankylosaur-like forms, ecological niches were somehow replaced by phyleti-
which in a number of cases were previously thought cally distinct forms sufficiently similar to be mistaken
to be dinosaurs. Molnar (2008, p. 586) extended this for one another’. So, it seems that something very
list and made the important point that ‘far from like a dinosaur is very much on the evolutionary
being a mere curiosity, the Triassic instances (of con- cards. From this perspective, the important insights
vergence) affect our whole understanding of the on the question of competitive superiority of the dino-