and pseudowords trained with overnight consolidation vations from the literature on word learning in
and items trained and tested on the same day (hence amnesic patients. A number of studies suggest that
not subject to consolidation). Thus, if the criterion newly acquired semantic knowledge in this population
for the emergence of a stable lexical representation is is to some extent rote-learned and inflexible. For
a significant reduction in the elevated response to a instance, whereas control participants taught the
trained pseudoword, then participants require both phrase ‘venom-caused illness’ could retrieve the cor-
initial training and offline consolidation (in this case rect final word when cued by synonyms (e.g.
over 24 h between training and scanning) for learning ‘poison-caused...’, or ‘venom-induced. . .”) an amnesic
to impact on cortical responses. This finding is entirely patient EP failed to respond correctly unless the exact
predicted by a CLS account in which cortical learning same words were used to cue the knowledge (Bayley &

requires offline consolidation. Squire 2002). Similarly, a developmental amnesic
To be clear, this result does not imply that all neural patient Jon could acquire new semantic/factual knowl-
correlates of word learning require overnight consoli- edge, but required many more repetitions than control

dation. We have already reviewed other results from participants (Gardiner er al. 2008). These data might
the Davis et al. study showing that the degree to suggest that isolated neocortical learning mechanisms
which participants become familiar with pseudowords responsible are limited to supporting stimulus-
that were presented for the first time during scanning response association of whole forms. Hence, there
is associated with the activation and subsequent may be important benefits that hippocampal learning
decline in hippocampal responses (cf. Breitenstein and overnight consolidation provide in the non-
et al. 2005). These data suggest that the role of the hip- damaged brain. This two-stage learning process sup-
pocampus in word learning appears confined to the ports flexible and generalizable knowledge more
initial acquisition of novel pseudowords, consistent effectively than rote or piecemeal learning using
with the CLS account. In the light of certain neuroi- neocortical systems alone.