that its predictions disagree with experimental data. show that the individual feature detectors become
Deciding what the theory predicts, however, can be progressively more tolerant to variations in retinal pos-
difficult. The cortex is an extremely complicated non- ition, orientation and scale as we ascend the hierarchy.

linear system whose behaviour can be changed in This raises the question of how such a hierarchy could
unexpected ways by modifying the strengths of the be learned.
synaptic connections. Detailed computer simulations
are therefore required to understand what a synaptic
learning rule predicts and the simulations usually 2. LEARNING BY BACK-PROPAGATING
show that the synaptic learning rule can be rejected | ERROR DERIVATIVES
without even considering the experimental data In the 1980s, the back-propagation algorithm (Werbos
because it simply does not work well enough to have 1974; Rumelhart et al. 1986) created much excitement
any chance of explaining obvious facts about people’s because it appeared to solve the problem of learning
learning abilities. Falsification by simulation has the multiple layers of nonlinear features. Back propagation
advantage that it is possible to design better learning is a method for computing how to change the connec-
rules by analysing how naive learning rules fail. This tion weights in a feed-forward neural network
paper describes a historical sequence of progressively | composed of multiple layers of artificial neurons. An
more powerful learning rules that have emerged from input vector is presented at the bottom layer and in
computer simulations. the ‘forward’ pass, each neuron computes a weighted
Consider the task of assigning a class label, such as | sum of the inputs it receives from the layer below,
‘cat’ or ‘dog’, to an image that contains a single salient | puts this sum through a smooth nonlinearity and
object. A good way to perform this computation in a sends the result to neurons in the layer above. The
network of neuron-like processing elements is to use Output of each neuron in the final layer is compared
a hierarchy of progressively more complicated feature | with the desired output vector provided by a supervi-
detectors (Selfridge 1958; Fukushima 1980; LeCun sor and some measure of the discrepancy is used to