involved in the regulation of animal numbers and times assist each other? One possible explanation was
had evolved for this purpose. Wynne Edwards’ that, as Darwin had suggested, cooperating individuals
theory was directly contrary both to Darwin’s persist- gained shared mutualistic benefits but explanations of
ent emphasis on individual variation in reproduction this kind smacked of group selection and had difficulty
as the keystone of evolution as well as to the perception in explaining why cooperation was not replaced by
of many ecologists that animal populations were cheating strategies. An alternative explanation of
limited directly by the availability of resources (Lack apparently altruistic actions involving unrelated indi-
1954, 1966) so neither population geneticists nor viduals was produced by R. L. Trivers in 1971.
ecologists could ignore the challenge. The general Trivers argued that if individuals assisted each other
application of Wynne Edwards’ theory was attacked in turn and the costs of assistance were relatively low
and refuted (Hamilton 1963; Maynard Smith 1964; to donors while the benefits were high to recipients,
Lack 1966; Williams 1966a,b) and the ensuing reciprocal assistance (reciprocity) could evolve
controversy drew attention to the fact that many func- among individuals that were unrelated to each other.
tional explanations of social and _ reproductive Cheats (individuals who accepted favours but did not
behaviour relied on putative benefits to groups or return them) might initially be at an advantage but
populations. This eventually led to a critical revalua- selection would subsequently favour individuals that
tion of many of these ideas, culminating in discriminated against them and cooperated selectively
G. C. Williams’ influential review of adaptation (1966). with individuals that had assisted them in the past.
The second development was the explanation of | This form of cooperation was originally referred to as
altruism and sterility in Hymenoptera by W. D. Hamilton. ‘reciprocal’ altruism but this can lead to confusion
In 1963, Hamilton published a brief paper arguing since cooperation of this kind is mutually beneficial
that altruism could evolve if it increased the fitness in the long term rather than altruistic (Dugatkin
of relatives and, the following year, introduced the 1997; West et al. 2007; Clutton-Brock in press).
concept of inclusive fitness to account for the evolution The theoretical basis of much of our current under-
of worker sterility in Hymenoptera and of alarm standing of the evolution of breeding systems was laid