to the right of fixation project directly to the left word-form area’ in the left mid-fusiform gyrus
cerebral hemisphere, which, for most right-handed (McCandliss et al. 2003). Creating a representation for
people, is the language-dominant hemisphere. Words a newly learned word that encompasses the complete
displayed to the left of the fixation point project letter sequence that forms the word will allow that
initially to the right cerebral hemisphere. If, as is word to access its pronunciation on a holistic basis.
commonly proposed, word recognition occurs within Unfamiliar non-words, in contrast, lack whole-string
the left hemisphere, then words from the left visual representations and must be pronounced in a piecemeal,
field (LVF), which arrive first in the right hemisphere, analytic fashion using sublexical letter—sound corre-
must be transferred to the left hemisphere across spondences. The number of elements in a letter string
the corpus callosum if they are to be identified, would be expected to affect sublexical procedures
pronounced and understood. That requirement for applied to naming unfamiliar non-words more than lex-
interhemispheric transfer may be partly responsible ical procedures applied to familiar words or newly
for the well-attested fact that words (and non-words) learned non-words. That transition from sublexical to
viewed in the right visual field (RVF) are recognized lexical orthography-to-phonology conversion shortens
more quickly and more accurately by right-handed naming speed and improves accuracy while reducing
people than words viewed in the LVF—the length effects for both RVF and LVF words. It cannot
so-called RVF advantage (Ellis 2004; Hunter & explain, however, why length effects remain greater for
Brysbaert 2008). LVF than RVF words or learned non-words. Ellis er al.
Many studies of lateralized word recognition have (2009) propose that those hemifield- and hemisphere-
shown that the number of letters in a familiar word specific differences arise as a result of interactions
has more of an impact on the speed and accuracy of | between word forms in the left mid-fusiform gyrus and
recognition when presented in the LVF than the earlier systems responsible for identifying the component
RVF. This has led to the suggestion that LVF/right letters of words and non-words—systems that are
hemisphere word recognition is inherently more thought to reside in lateral occipital cortex in the region
serial in character than RVF/left hemisphere recog- of the middle and inferior occipital gyri. The proposal