inheritance and evolution, but his emphasis was all on dictum was ‘publish and perish’. Chambers wrote
nucleated cells, as was Wallace’s (1911) claim that only well after the Pope banned Zoonomia by Charles
a creative mind could have made them. Understanding Darwin’s grandfather Erasmus, who first correctly
the big picture of organismal history requires more suggested that all organisms evolved by modifying a
attention than hitherto to the main features of the single microbial common ancestor (Darwin 1794),
evolution of sexless bacterial cells which exclusively but during the British backlash against progressive
dominated the biosphere for three-quarters of its ideas, especially foreign French ones like those of
history. More than all eukaryotes together, bacteria de Maupertuis, De Maillet and Lamarck (1809).
still largely manipulate biogeochemical cycles and Lamarck in French and Chambers in English first
global climate. proposed phylogenetic trees for real organisms. Darwin
Though I shall not dwell on it, another limitation of (1859) scrupulously avoided doing that. Unmerited
Weismann’s synthesis has become apparent in the past ridicule as they suffered would have jeopardized his
two decades. Superimposed on the vertical inheritance threefold mission: demonstrating the fact of evolution;
of cell lineages that Weismann recognized is the hori- showing how the struggle for existence explains adap-
zontal transfer of individual genes or small clusters of tation; and attempting to explain evolutionary change
genes among organisms of separate cell lineages, (transformation) by genetic variation and the differential
which can affect the evolution of extremely distantly multiplication of genotypes. When emphasizing how
related organisms. In bacteria, such lateral gene common ancestry plus divergence into novel phenotypes
transfer (LGT) occurs mainly by viruses, plasmids or explain the striking patterns of similarity and differences
the uptake of naked DNA from dead cells. In eukar- that enable us to classify organisms into successively
yotes, feeding by phagocytosis followed by inefficient nested taxa within higher taxa, Darwin cleverly used an
digestion of prey DNA and its accidental incorporation abstract tree immune to ridicule or phylogenetic error.
into nuclear chromosomes is probably how protozoa He correctly argued that the body plan shared by mem-
most often get foreign genes (Doolittle 1998). bers of a phylum was present in their last common
Although LGT of DNA independently of cell lineages ancestor and has been stably inherited generation after