extremely ancient early diverging cells especially them (figure 4). A phylogenetically broad survey of
significant for the origin of life (Woese & Fox 1977) lipid chemistry and membrane organization (both the
has proved to be false (Cavalier-Smith 2006a,c). Wide- cytoplasmic and OM; how greatly do they differ?)
spread belief that it was true caused numerous among Chlorobacteria would test this and be important
fundamental misinterpretations of the tree of life and for correctly deducing the nature of the membranes in
the dogmatism often associated with it has impeded the last common ancestor of all life; contrary to wide-
more balanced understanding. However, faith in this spread assumptions, such an ancestor might not have
fundamentally mistaken idea has also immensely had any kind of phospholipid (whether the acyl ester
stimulated research into archaebacteria for three dec- phospholipids of non-chlorobacterial eubacteria or the
ades, which has yielded innumerable valuable new isoprenoid ethers of archaebacteria) in its membranes;
discoveries and insights into microbiology. Moreover, it might instead have had acyl ester diol glycerolipids,
as archaebacteria have turned out to be sisters of only later replaced in most organisms by glyceropho-
eukaryotes, the new facts were very important and spholipids, with hadobacteria an intermediate stage
beneficial for understanding their origin (Cavalier- possessing both. Many cherished assumptions about
Smith 1987a,b, 20026, 20096), though seeing archae- early cellular evolution might be overturned by more
bacteria as ancestral and ancient has been harmfully thorough and phylogenetically representative study of
confusing and grossly misleading as to the nature of the molecular cell biology of Eobacteria, including the
the last common ancestor of all life. Thus, intense many still uncultured chlorobacterial lineages known
recent archaebacterial research has been extremely only from environmental DNA sequencing.
productive and valuable, despite being totally irrele-
vant to and a distraction from understanding the
origin of life. Better understanding of earliest evolution © ENDNOTE
requires a comparable large-scale effort to elucidate 'His letters published in this journal in its early days, by revealing the
the diversity, cell biology, and ecology of Chlorobac- microbial world, led eventually to revision of the contemporary idea
teria. If I am right about their deep phylogenetic (Lemery 1675) of only three kingdoms of nature: animals, vegetables