characters present an environmentally invariant value phenotypes (phenocopies) that mimic otherwise
(a flat reaction norm). A non-plastic character is said genetically specified traits, and, vice versa, mutant
to be monophenic. The attribute ‘plastic’ is generally genes can cause phenotypes (genocopies) to mimic
associated with a character, but it can also be referred environmentally elicited phenotypes. Depending on
to a natural population, a laboratory strain, a sex or a the context (e.g. species, population, genotype,
cohort within a species. Usually, the term polyphenism environment), the activation of the same alternative
is restricted to the case in which two or more distinct physiological responses, or the same developmental
phenotypes (without intermediates) are elicited by choice among alternative developmental pathways,
the environmental cue; thus polyphenism is a particu- can either be controlled by a genetic polymorphism
lar case of phenotypic plasticity (West-Eberhard or elicited by an environmental cue (e.g. melanism in
2003). The phenotypic discontinuity that character- butterflies, Nijhout (1991); sex determination in rep-
izes a polyphenism can either be due to a real tiles, Janzen & Phillips (2006)). This can be explained
discontinuity in the reaction norm (as in reaction at the biochemical level by the fact that the same

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)


550 G. Fusco & A. Minelli Introduction. Plasticity in development and evolution

regulative effect on the expression of a target gene can situations, plasticity is possibly non-adaptive. Conver-
be produced either by an environmental stimulus that sely, we speak of indirect effects when the
causes changes in the relative concentration of a environmental cues elicit responses that are mediated

relevant transcription factor, or by a genetic modifi- by other physiological and developmental events. In
cation of the corresponding cis-regulative sequence this way, the environmental conditions that induce a