each colony arises from the clonogenic proliferation that recognizes a cell surface antigen. Marker* and
and differentiation of a single SSC (Dobrinski ez al. marker cells are fractionated by FACS and each frac-
1999; Zhang et al. 2003; Kanatsu-Shinohara et al. tion is transplanted into the seminiferous tubules of
2006). Therefore, the SSC transplantation technique infertile recipient mice to determine the relative stem
provides a quantitative functional assay to characterize cell activity. The first application of this approach for
stem cell activity in any donor cell population. SSC characterizing SSCs was reported by Shinohara and
transplantation remains the gold standard method co-workers, who demonstrated that SSCs specifically
for identifying SSCs, but this approach can be bind to laminin-coated plates. The laminin-binding
technically challenging. In addition, SSC transplan- cells were enriched for B1-integrin, making this sur-
tation is a retrospective assay with an inherent two face molecule a candidate for enriching SSCs
to three months timeframe between transplant and (Shinohara et al. 1999). Subsequent transplantation
analysis. To accelerate investigations of SSCs, of magnetic-activated cell-sorted (MACS) and
Nagano and co-workers recently suggested that the FACS-sorted testis fractions indicated that SSCs
SSC culture system (described below) may provide a express B1-integrin and a6-integrin, but are negative

shorter term, im vitro assay for SSCs (Yeh et al. for av-integrin and the c-KIT receptor tyrosine
2007). However, culture does not assess regenerative kinase (Shinohara et al. 1999, 2000). Based on several
activity. similar studies, mouse SSCs can now be described by

the cell surface phenotype, a6-Integrin (CD49f)*, 61-

Integrin (CD29)*, THY-1 (CD90)*, CD9*,
7. DISSECTING THE MOLECULAR PHENOTYPE GFRal*, CDHI1*, av-Integrin (CD51)°, c-KIT
OF SPERMATOGONIAL STEM CELLS (CD117) , major histocompatibility complex class I
Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), combined (MHC-I), CD45 (Shinohara et al. 1999, 2000;