is also an important source of population heterogen- enrolment rates of both girls and boys in those

eity and bears a significant weight of its own. Almost countries, the future women of reproductive age are
universally more educated people have lower mortality bound to be more educated than today’s. This great
and there is sufficient evidence that this is a real effect momentum and rather easy predictability of the edu-
and not just owing to selectivity. Also for all cational attainment distribution is a consequence of

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2010)


Review. Global population projections W. Lutz & K. C. Samir 2783

the fact that education is typically acquired early in life distribution of women by the number of children
and then remains virtually constant along cohort lines. they have already given birth to, is an important deter-
If we know how many 10-year-old girls with some pri- minant of fertility in the near-term future. Highly
mary education there are today, we know (when important for economic and labour force consider-
considering differential mortality and migration) how ation is the distribution of the population by age, sex
many 50-year-olds with at least primary education and labour force participation rates. While there are
there will be in 40 years’ time. Given the fact that in several national projections of future labour force par-
most countries the younger cohorts are better edu- ticipation, consistent global projections do not yet
cated than the older ones, further declines in fertility exist. Another very relevant dimension in the context
as well as mortality are virtually pre-programmed. In of global population ageing and the associated needs
a few African countries where school enrolment rates for care for the elderly is the projection of the popu-
have actually declined over the past two decades, lation by health status. While significant progress has
this has led to a stalled fertility decline and partly been made in producing internationally comparable