ical expansion of urban areas, both of which are often In most nations, | the pace of economic and ; urban
treated as synonymous with urbanization. change has outstripped the pace of needed social and

A nation’s urban population can grow from natural political reform, especially at local government level.
increase (births minus deaths), net rural to urban The consequences of this are evident in most cities
migration and reclassification (as what was previously 12 Asia and Africa and many in Latin America and
a rural settlement becomes classified as urban or as _ the Caribbean—the high proportion of the population
an urban settlement’s boundaries are expanded, bring- living in very poor and overcrowded conditions in
ing into its population people who were previously informal settlements or tenements lacking adequate
classified as rural). Nations with rapid economic provision for water, sanitation, drainage, healthcare,
growth and relatively low rates of natural increase schools and the rule of law. This is evident even in
such as China over the past few decades have most cities where there has been very rapid economic
of their urban population growth from urbanization; growth. The fact that half of Mumbai’s or Nairobi’s
nations with little or no economic growth and high Population live in ‘slums and squatter settlements’ is
rates of natural increase (including many sub-Saharan more to do with political choices than a lack of resources.
African nations during the 1990s) have most of their Little more than a century ago, most ‘slums’ in
urban population growth from natural increase (see Europe and North America had living conditions,
Potts 2009). Differences in rural and urban rates of and infant and child mortality rates that were as bad
natural increase (influenced by differences in fertility 28 the worst-governed cities in low-income nations
and mortality rates) also influence urbanization, today. Here too there were problems of under-
although generally these act to reduce urbanization. nutrition, lack of education and serious problems

The term urbanization is also used for the expan- with exploitation, as well as deeply entrenched dis-
sion of urban land uses. The conventional definition | Ctimination against women in almost all aspects of
for urbanization used in this paper entails a shift in life. It was social and political reforms that dramatic-