of the patented innovation. Most innovations lie some- erty (Wright et al. 2007). Many LDCs were

where between these two extremes. Research may be unhappy, but had to accept TRIPS in order to keep
publicly or privately funded, performed by a public the advantages of WTO membership.

or private institution and the innovation produced The technology problem has always been that
may be proprietary or in the public domain. Nor is it patents help push the resources committed to R&D
easy to state a location, as private agricultural R&D towards an optimum, but slow the diffusion of the
is now the province of a few huge multinationals innovations, given they are frequently non-rival in con-
with global reach, noted above. Thus, any simple sumption. Excludability is at odds with maximizing

statement tends to be inaccurate. welfare in the case of a non-rival good. Wright er al.
Pray et al. (2007) start from the fact that private (2007) compare patents and other means of providing
expenditures are now larger than public in most indus- incentives to innovation, such as prizes and contracts.

trialized countries. They outline the history of private The means of protecting intellectual property rights
research in the developing counties, where plantations (IPRs) in agriculture, such as plant patents, plant breed-
(tea, rubber) and processors (tobacco) played a major ers’ rights, utility patents, trade secrets, trademarks and
role. Similarly, haciendas in Latin America were large geographical indicators vary in terms of protection
enough to finance R&D as were sugar plantations levels. There are also alternatives to IPRs, such as
such as Lonrho in Africa. Pray et al. (2007) estimate hybrid varieties, genetic use restriction technologies,
that in 1995 private R&D in Asia and Latin America contractually defined rights over tangible property,
was only 10 per cent of the total, but rising. In SSA and mergers and acquisitions. The results are similar
it is lower, but not non-existent even in the late in that the trend is towards concentration.
