historically been low (e.g. Oceania, North America, intakes of red meat in Europe and consumption has
Africa and Europe), modest increases in consumption been decreasing over the past 30 years. Contributors
are projected, although these would still be far lower to this recent decline have been a number of food-

than the levels of intake in those regions with rice- related health scares, e.g. the bovine spongiform
based diets (e.g. 16 g per capita per day in Europe by encephalopathy or ‘mad cow disease’ crisis. Globally,
2050 versus 253 g per capita per day in Asia by 2050). however, a considerable amount of the increase in

In contrast to this rather static situation for rice, meat consumption may be attributed to the increase
global wheat consumption has increased at a faster in poultry consumption worldwide. Beef is the one
rate than all other cereals. This growth is largely meat group that on a worldwide level showed no
accounted for by the increase in developing countries increase in consumption levels during this time. This
(particularly in China, India) from the green revolu- trend reflects the fact that while beef consumption
tion, reflecting increased crop yields. In terms of rose modestly in some regions (in developing countries
future projections, growth in wheat consumption will such as China and Brazil), it fell very modestly in most
continue to be greatest in developing countries. This other regions (North America, Oceania and Europe).
will be accompanied by continuing growth in wheat Projecting to 2050 suggests that the consumption of
imports, especially in the non-producing countries or meat will increase moderately, and this will largely
those countries favouring a dependence on diets that reflect increases in pork and particularly poultry.
are made up of roots, tubers, bananas and plantains.

The consumption of coarse grains including millet
and maize has been declining or remained largely
unchanged in most regions of the world since the
1960s (electronic supplementary material, tables S1