searching rate (feeding) {Fin}s the surface-area specific parameters are independent of size, so also
maximum assimilation rate (assimilation) {Jz4}, the independent of the maximum size of a species. The
yield of reserve on food (digestion) yzx and of struc- body-size scaling relationships can also be used
ture on reserve (growth) yz, the energy partially, making optimal use of all data at hand
conductance (mobilization of reserve) v, surface and (Kooijman et al. 2008; Kooijman 2010) to detect
volume-specific somatic maintenance costs {Jzr} species-specific deviations from the general trend.
and [Jz], the specific maturity maintenance ;, the These rules also determine how properties that can
fraction of mobilized reserve allocated to soma xk, the be written as functions of the primary parameters
reproduction efficiency «kr, the maturity threshold depend on maximum length. An example is the respir-
levels that trigger the onset of feeding and reproduc- ation rate (i.e. the use of dioxygen). It works out to be
tion My and Mf, the Weibull ageing acceleration h, approximately proportional to weight to the power 3/4,
and the Gompertz stress coefficient sG. This amounts _ both inter- and intraspecifically (see the list of stylized
to 14 primary parameters including the two ageing facts in table 2), but for very different reasons. The
parameters and excluding parameters for species- weight-specific respiration rate decreases intraspecifi-
specific handling rules for the reproduction buffer. cally because growth decreases (and so_ the
The details of death by starvation involve another contribution of overhead costs of growth to respir-
four parameters; these can be avoided by letting the ation); it decreases interspecifically in fully grown
individual die upon shrinking or starvation-induced _ adults because reserve density increases with the maxi-
rejuvenation. One can argue about the status of the —_ mum size of a species and somatic maintenance is only
mass—volume coupler [My]; this parameter relates paid for structure. The explanation offered by DEB
measurements with no impact on processes. theory also allows to understand taxon-specific vari-
The standard DEB model is meant to be the sim- _ ations in the scaling of respiration, since quite a few
plest in the DEB family that still has all essential parameters contribute to the result and evolutionary
features, a canonical form. Many applications need _ adaptations cause deviations of parameters from the
