to environmental and physiological cues, and may culture dish soon disappears into a sea of progeny
even underlie its diversification during evolution. and cannot be found. I left culture dishes with my
At the heart of these pathways are stress and metabolic almost-infertile mutants in the incubator for several
sensors such as insulin and IGF-1 hormones, TOR weeks, and then looked at them. With so few progeny,
kinase and AMP kinase, whose up- or downregulation the original animals were still easy to find, and to my
can trigger a variety of cell-protective mechanisms that surprise, they looked old. This concept, that worms
extend lifespan. get old, really struck me. I sat there, feeling a little

The first lifespan pathway to be discovered was sorry for them, and then wondered whether there
the insulin/IGF-1/FOXO pathway. This pathway is were genes that controlled ageing and how one might
evolutionarily conserved: mutations in many insulin find them.

and IGF-1-pathway genes extend the lifespan of mam- In fact, around that time, Michael Klass was already
mals and several have been linked to human longevity. screening for long-lived mutants. Klass was a postdoc-
In particular, DNA variants in FOXO transcription- toral in David Hirsh’s laboratory at the University of

factor genes have been linked to exceptional longevity Colorado, Boulder, USA. His elegant early work set
in human cohorts from around the world. These and the stage for genetic studies. Klass showed, for
other exciting findings grew out of basic genetic example, that C. elegans lives longer and has fewer
research in the small nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, progeny when subjected to dietary restriction. This
where the first long-lived mutants were isolated. In this phenomenon had first been observed in rodents in
article, I describe how some of these discoveries came the 1930s and had remained unexplained. Klass also
about. I am not a historian but rather a scientist showed that worms, which are ectotherms, live longer
who played a role in these discoveries. Although the at low temperature than at high temperature (Klass
literature I cite establishes an objective narrative of 1977) [1]. By doing temperature-shift experiments,