banking, deep phenotyping and genomic research may provide insights into the mechanisms that
drive human longevity and healthy ageing, beyond the associations usually provided by molecular
and genetic epidemiology. Although prospective studies of humans from the cradle to the grave
have never been performed, it is feasible to extract life histories from different cohorts jointly cover-
ing the molecular changes that occur with age from early development all the way up to the age at
death. By the integration of research in different study cohorts, and with research in animal models,
biological research into human longevity is thus making considerable progress.

Keywords: human longevity; longevity genomics; epigenetics and ageing

1. INTRODUCTION phenotypes and the study populations, which include
Genomic studies into human longevity are inspired by population-based, patient-based, family-based and
the fact that, in animal models, healthy lifespan has exposure-based cohorts.
proved to be remarkably plastic, and major pathways Studies into human age-related disease phenotypes
of lifespan regulation have been identified. Consider- are focused on population-based and patient-based
able lifespan extension has been induced in models cohorts of elderly individuals in order to find mechan-
as diverse as yeast, worms, fish, flies and rodents by isms that contribute to the onset and/or progression of
applying genetic manipulation and dietary restriction complex common diseases. For all common diseases,
(DR) (see [1] for review). Reduced activity of nutri- calendar age is a major risk factor and many disease-
ent-sensing pathways such as_ insulin/insulin-like related parameters, such as serum glucose level,
growth factor (IGF-1) signalling (IIS) and target of typically change as a function of age. Attempts are
rapamycin (TOR) signalling mediated lifespan exten- being made to interpret which combination of age-
sion, and also the extension of lifespan by DR [2]. related parameters reflects the biological ageing rate
An interesting observation from the perspective of | of individuals and which of these biomarkers of
human ageing is that, in rodents and monkeys, diets ageing could influence the onset of disease and of