one more type of quiescence—quiescence of the stem ans display a bewildering diversity that challenges our
cells whose activity is an important driver of the ability to see generalities. With the exception of a
growth. For example, overall stature is largely the few groupings of tissues with parallel developmental
result of the growth of long bones in juveniles. This courses, patterns of growth and proliferation are
growth is driven by the activity of the epiphyseal remarkably tissue-specific. Despite the complexity,
plate, a generative layer that deposits cartilage that is there is a gratifying appropriateness to the diversity, as
ossified as it is displaced from the plate. The epiphy- the details of the growth programme for each tissue
seal plate matures and loses activity at puberty. Like are beautifully tailored to the specific structures being
the growth of the liver and the growth of the already produced. Indeed, it is what one expects for a process
formed axons, the activity of the epiphyseal plate is regulated as part of the developmental programme.
coupled to size and maturity. But as noted already, Evolution has produced extraordinarily diverse body
the activity of generative cells, such as the basal cells shapes and sizes. This can be understood in part as the
in the skin, crypt cells in the gut and glial stem cells, result of the fact that natural selection acts largely on

is not coupled to organismal size. Distinct develop- the structure and performance of an organism’s body.
mental inputs appear to coordinate the activity of | However, the rapid diversification requires plasticity in
different stem cell populations. the mechanisms governing shape and size. A precedent

The third style of growth and proliferation is highly suggests an origin of the plasticity. Upon recognizing
regimented. For example, the proliferation that gives that the development of each segment of the insect
rise to the soma of the Caenorhabditis elegans worm fol- body plan can be distinct from any other segment
lows an almost invariant lineage, and the few examples because of the action of particular homeotic genes,
of a probabilistic cell fate specification appear to be E. B. Lewis suggested that the independence allowed
genetically programmed switches. The early fly each segment to be a separate experiment in evol-
