Fkh1 is necessary for tor2-S and tor1-D mutants to be signalling may target the same substrate(s) to control
sensitive to rapamycin, suppression of the ts phenotype the cell size under different nutrients.
of cut2 by the deletion Afkh1 occurs in the absence of We argue that Sds23 is a key molecule to understand
rapamycin. Fkh1 appears to be needed for the ts pheno- the role of Ppa2 and Ppel phosphatases for the nutri-
type of the cut2 mutant. Since Fkh1 affects the protein tional utilizations because Sds23  restrains the
conformation, the result might fit with a notion that phosphatases by stable binding. The loss of Sds23
Cut2 is a chaperone-inhibitor of Cutl [54]: Fkh1 may leads to the hyperactivation of the phosphatases, causing
cause instability of mutant Cut2 protein. the failure to consume the low concentration of glucose
for cell proliferation [21] and resulting in loss of viability
of the GO cells under nitrogen starvation [14]. The
11. DISCUSSION effect of Asds23 deletion on the glucose consumption
The aim of this review is to discuss the perspective is exceptionally strong among thousands of mutant
regarding facts and hypotheses on size control during strains examined. Measurement indicates that the con-
the cell division cycle under limited nutrients and sumption rate of glucose in Asds23 cells is extremely
their implication in the mode of mitosis. First, it slow (L. Uehara & A. Mori 2011, unpublished data).

should be emphasized that cell size control is the meet- The biomarker compound cytidine diphosphate-
ing point for cell division cycle and growth control. choline, the level of which greatly increases under
When considering growth control, it is not surprising glucose fasting in S. pombe [33], considerably increases
that glucose and nitrogen source are determinant fac- in the extracts of Asds23 deletion mutants (T. Pluskal

tors for the cell size. The cell length of S. pombe at the 2011, unpublished data), strongly suggesting that the
time of division is pre-determined, depending on intracellular nutrient state of Asds23 is close to glucose
different concentrations of nitrogen source and glu- starvation, whereas glucose is abundant in the culture
cose in the culture medium. The wee or semi-wee medium. The uptake of low glucose is clearly defective