logical systems, particularly when exposed to environmental change. However, insights from
evolutionary biology will help the development of models even when data may be sparse.
Process-based models are more common, and are used for forecasting, in other disciplines, e.g.
climatology and molecular systems biology. Tools and techniques developed in these endeavours
can be appropriated into ecological modelling, but it will also be necessary to develop the science
of ecoinformatics along with approaches specific to ecological problems. The impetus for
this effort should come from the demand coming from society to understand the effects of
environmental change on the world and what might be performed to mitigate or adapt to them.

Keywords: ecological modelling; prediction; climate change; evolution; systems biology;
global circulation model

‘We appeal to the notorious fact that ZOOLOGY, soon on them as a guide to the future, despite them some-
after the commencement of the latter half of the last times, in the light of experience, being inaccurate. It
century, was falling abroad, weighed down and was a premise of the Royal Society discussion meeting,
crushed, as it were, by the inordinate number and —_ypon which this volume is based, that ecology needs to
manifoldness of facts and phenomena apparently become more predictive, especially in the context of
separate, without evincing the least promise of system- creating an understanding of the way in which biologi-
atizing itself by any inward combination, any vital cal systems might respond to environmental change. It
interdependence of its parts’. : is well understood that making predictions about how
Samuel Taylor Coleridge [1] any system will behave in novel circumstances is diffi-
cult. Making predictions about how noisy ecological
The ability to predict, to forecast how a system might systems will behave when exposed to large-scale
behave in the future, is a key feature of any science. environmental changes will be extremely difficult [3].
Prediction is, according to, the Nobel laureate, immun- Nevertheless, there is a demand for the production of