IBMs and there may be parallel solutions in, for then applied to the other two areas. An interesting result
example, the use of stage- and age-structured approxi- from this analysis suggests that very different species
mations to scale out [35] and functional types to scale seem to play equivalent roles in the functional collapse
up [40], although any such approximations would of the three ecosystems, namely zooplankton species in

inevitably result in a reduction of individual-level het- Georges Bank, deepwater fish species on the East
erogeneity in the model, which if it influenced the Scotian Shelf and commercially exploited demersal
outcome in important ways might be of concern [37]. species in the North Sea [46]. It also suggests that

Human behaviour is frequently the target of policy there is a parameter(s) external to the fishery that influ-
interventions both by agencies attempting to create ences its collapse; it would be difficult to detect such a
their desired conservation outcomes [17,41] and parameter in conventional analyses of fisheries [46].
by institutions and governments [40]. The fact that In molecular biology, data can emerge from high-
humans often modify their behaviour extremely throughput machines and the challenge is usually in
rapidly in response to an intervention can mean that handling and processing data volumes, but ecological
there are unintended outcomes of well-intentioned data are usually less abundant and are often less
interventions; for example, the fact that acquisition easily sourced. To combat this, a significant advance
of land for nature conservation can impact upon could be made in ecology if scientists working in the
local land prices potentially results in landowners discipline adopted the habit of data-sharing (see
being tempted by higher prices to put additional http://www.datadryad.org), a habit that prevails in
land on the market leading to a counter-productive many other areas of science—including molecular
effect on biodiversity outside protected areas if this biology. As a result of restricted, often private, knowl-
land is then developed [43]. Milner-Gulland [41] edge of the existence of particular data, it is not always

Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B (2012)