(a) Hominin ecology structured through and/or intentionality emerges as a function that
incorporating different classes of tools bridges those fragmented ‘selves’ and reunites them;
Humans are peculiar, compared with non-human this hypothesis has been proposed in detail elsewhere
species, in the extent to which they try to ‘improve’ [6,13]. As a result of this self-objectification and emer-
their habitual environment. To make such improve- gence of the ‘mind’, a recognition of the ‘core self’ that
ments, particularly in our modern urban environment, continues across time from the past through the pre-
we make and use various kinds of tools and sent towards the future may subsequently arise. Once
technologies, and often the tools themselves are incor- the future self is recognized as having a core that is
porated into the fundamental structure of the identical to that of the present self, one might wish
environment to create a distinctive human ecological to save the present information for future use. This
niche. For example, cars running on paved roads or can be accomplished by taking notes or drawing pictures,
air-conditioned skyscrapers are essentially artefacts in which requires an external device for memorizing
which to travel and to reside, yet also comprise an facts; thus, an ‘externalization of the brain’ is produced
environment to which city inhabitants adapt both as the tool class of the third layer (figure 1c, top
physically and perceptually. In earlier times, hominins row) [6,14].
may also have typically constructed their niche by How could the three different classes of tools out-
gradually and consecutively incorporating artefacts lined above be incorporated into humans’ habitual
into the habitual environment. Thus, one can ask environments? The scenario outlined proposes that
whether the tools that comprise our environment can successive layers of tools (motor extensions, sensory
be classified and structured in hierarchical order and extensions and symbolic externalized memory) can
if so, how different modes of brain function subserve be incorporated into the environment by building on
their use. the pre-existing acquisition and incorporation of tool
The classical definition of the tool, as used in most classes of the immediately lower level. Thus, a positive
existing tool-use studies, is restricted to external feedback would have emerged between new brain
objects held by the hand and interacting with the functions and resulting modifications of the habitual