7. TYPE Ve SECRETION: CLASSICAL atics and experimental data strongly support their
AUTOTRANSPORT, BUT INVERTED? topology model and thus the notion that we are deal-
Intimin of E. coli and Invasin of enteropathogenic ing with an autotransport system. The experimental
Yersinia spp. are closely related adhesins with extracellu- support includes the insertion of immunogenic tags

lar Ig domains anchored in the bacterial OM—related into different positions of the protein, and experiments
enough to allow for a chimeric exchange of their that show their localization in the periplasm or on the
transmembrane domain, which still yields functional cell surface, respectively [113].
protein [104]. Intimin mediates the intimate attach- In contrast to type Va autotransporters, the order of
ment of pathogenic E. coli to host cells, which leads to passenger and transport domains are reversed in
pedestal formation. To this end, a second protein Intimin and Invasin. Thus, it is the C-terminus, not
(Tir) is secreted into the host cell and is inserted into the N-terminus, that extends from the OM to the
the host cell plasma membrane from the inside [105]. host cell. This fact must consequently mean that
The secretion and injection of Tir is mediated by a the mechanism of autotransport is different from
type III secretion system. Tir in the host cell membrane type Va autotransport, as a presumed hairpin inter-
then acts as the specific receptor for the binding domain mediate would loop through the transport pore
of Intimin [106]. Invasin, in contrast, directly binds to pulling a strand in the inverse direction and the export-
B,-integrins that are located on the surface of the host ed domain would fold from its N- to its C-terminus
cell [107]—no other bacterial factor, and no type II (not C- to N-terminus as in type Va autotransporters,
secretion system, is required. figure 5). We propose here that this system should
Both proteins are well studied for their involvement be labelled ‘type Ve secretion’, to acknowledge this
in pathogenesis. In contrast, numerous models only significant difference from type Va secretion.
vaguely describe the membrane anchor of these proteins Apart from the inverted transport mechanism
as a transmembrane B-barrel. They avoid—probably through their OM pore, Intimin, Invasin and their
deliberately—a clear discussion on the topology and homologues seem to follow the same export route as