in MbeA from plasmid ColE1 [67]. Judging from the and some knowledge of the underlying mechanisms is
F TralI relaxase:ss DNA complex, the bound metal emerging. Proteins translocated by T4SSs are endowed
coordinates oxygens of the scissile phosphate, serving with TSs that identify them as substrates for secretion.
to both position the phosphorus and render it rela- Vergunst et al. [78] applied the Cre recombinase report-
tively more electropositive for nucleophilic attack er assay to map protein features that mediate their
[65]. The neutral His, unlike acidic residues, does recognition. Data from the A. tumefaciens VirB/VirD4
not substantially reduce the metal’s charge, rendering paradigm and the L. pneumophila Dot/Icm T4SS
it more effective in polarizing the phosphorus atom. revealed that a surprisingly simple cluster of positively
Relaxases usually have multiple Tyr residues in the charged or hydrophobic residues at the C-terminus
active site, often in flexible regions. This flexibility constitutes a functional TS for secretion substrates
has been invoked in models of sequential cleavage by [79,80]. The simplicity of recognition exhibited in
different TrwC active site Tyr residues [68], and to these systems is probably not general, however. More
account for the fact that multiple Tyr are competent complex bipartite signals are shared by the seven
to cleave or ligate an oriT sequence [66,69]. known VirB/VirD4-translocated Bartonella effector

In the relaxase-nicking reaction, an active site tyro- proteins (BepA—BepG). The charged but not con-
syl hydroxyl attacks the scissile phosphate, releasing served C-terminal tails are combined with one or
the 3’ bridging oxygen and forming a long-lived more copies of a second conserved Bep intracellular
ssDNA-protein conjugate. This intermediate protects delivery (BID) domain [81]. Modular architecture is
the 5’ phosphate of the T-DNA as it enters the recipi- a feature shared by the Cag—T4SS of H. pylori.
ent, links the ssDNA to the translocation signal (TS) The CagA effector carries a 20 amino acid C-terminal
in the relaxase to target the ssDNA for transfer, and TS adjacent to a larger interaction domain for its
provides the means to rejoin the plasmid ends in the secretion chaperone CagF [82]. Together, these fea-
recipient. The covalent linkage, combined with the tures are sufficient to recruit CagA to the secretion
observed extensive contacts between relaxase and apparatus. Relaxases carry comparatively large, com-