902 J.-L. Schwartz et al. Introduction. Multistability in perception

The next three contributions explore the what ques- discuss individual differences in brain state fluctuations,
tion by comparing multistability for audition and and relate them to neuroanatomical substrates, suggest-
vision. Hupé & Pressnitzer [64] present experimental ing that there could be a genetic basis for differences
data comparing the initial phase of perceptual organiz- between subjects in how they behave in multistability
ation for visual plaids and auditory streaming. This paradigms, focusing on a causal role of parietal regions
phase exhibits a peculiar pattern: it is longer than in perceptual inference.
later phases and is biased towards one object for Winkler ez al. [10] present a theoretical framework
both modalities. In vision, they show that it is the tri- for auditory streaming based on the idea of ‘predictive
stable nature of plaid perception that produces the coding’. In this approach, the goal of perceptual
longer percept, whereas the evidence is less clear cut organization is to find regularities in the incoming sen-
for audition. In fact, tristability for auditory streaming sory information, in order to predict the pattern of
remains to be shown. The bias towards integration is future sounds. Interestingly, the competition in their
discussed in terms of local versus global organization framework is not between sensory representations,
cues. Kubovy & Yu [58] re-examine the similarities but rather between abstract rules that bind successive

and differences between the requirements of percep- sounds together. They also suggest a new compu-
tual scene analysis in audition and vision. They tational approach for understanding the competition
suggest that cross-modal causality is a necessary pre- between those rules, related to the ow question.

requisite for efficient cross-modal binding, but they Finally, Kelso [25] describes how multistable per-

express doubts that such cross-modal binding could ception can be considered as part of a wide range of
result in multisensory multistability, because of the multistable phenomena in living systems. He relates