species once group size is partialled out (data from between signal complexity and social complexity or
Dobson [83]: t= 1.748, d.f.= 10, p= 0.105; using community size. But this is, at best, speculation and
genus mean values, data from McComb & Semple the hypothesis awaits detailed testing.
[68]: t= 0.003, d.f. = 20, p = 0.997). While it is not clear whether human facial or non-
A second aspect of social complexity is the struc- verbal signal repertoires are larger than those of other
turing of the group into a number of layers, as is primates, it is obvious that language at least adds a
commonly found in anthropoid primates (including level of signal complexity that is unmatched by any
humans), but also in a number of other socially other species. This looks suspiciously like a phase tran-
complex mammals such as elephants and orcas sition whereby a new channel of communication has
[101,102]. What makes these social systems complex been opened up because more conventional channels
is that the network structure does not necessarily par- (i.e. non-vocal signals) have reached an asymptotic
allel the size of the social group, but rather is limit and cannot be stretched any further [29]. If these
additionally affected by the fact that relationships in patterns hold, then, in terms of language itself, one
different layers have different qualities [103]. One might predict that there will be a relationship between
might, therefore, expect signal complexity to be related language complexity and social community size. In this
to network structural complexity as well as to the size of | context, the appropriate social group is the language

the group in these species. community (i.e. all those who speak the same language),

The limiting case in terms of social complexity is, which may be numbered in the millions, rather than the
inevitably, our own species. Even by primate stand- social community in the cognitive sense (who do you
ards, humans live in unusually large and complexly know?). However, contrary to prediction, the phonologi-
organized societies [101,104]. This invites the ques- cal and morphological complexity of human languages is
tion as to whether human signal repertoires are negatively related to community size [109]. It seems that
simply proportionately larger than those of other pri- the larger the number of people who need to speak a