atmosphere is initially fixed into four-carbon organic the conversion of open savannahs to woodlands. Against
acids via the enzyme phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase this background, Bond & Midgley [44] highlight docu-
[34]. C4 acids are then shuttled into a specialized com- mented cases for large increases in the numbers of trees
partment of the cell or leaf and the CO, is liberated to in the mesic savannahs of South and North America,
feed the Rubisco-driven C3 photosynthetic pathway Australia and Africa. These increases cannot easily be
[35]. A major adaptation of C4 plants is the physical explained by historical changes in land use. In the
isolation from the atmosphere of the compartment Kruger National Park, for example, they report dra-
where C3 photosynthesis occurs, typically in bundle matic increases in tree densities between the 1950s
sheaths, to enrich COz2 at the active site of Rubisco and the present-day, with the dominant tree species
and suppress the oxygenation reaction. However, the (Terminalia sericea) showing a strong response to CO,
C, CCM has an energetic cost and C4 grasses are typi- enrichment in glasshouse experiments [44]. These
cally only more photosynthetically efficient, in terms of | observations, and evidence from experiments and veg-
productivity and nitrogen-use efficiency, than C3 etation modelling studies, highlight the fact that
plants under high-light, warm temperature environ- increases in the tree cover of tropical and subtropical
ments that promote high rates of photorespiration in savannahs around the world appear to be consistent
Cs plants. These considerations generally confine Cy with a global driver—the rapid rise in atmospheric
grasses to open habitats in the warm tropics and sub- CO, concentration over the past 70 years [44].
tropics where they form important components of
flammable biomes, including savannahs.

Phylogenetic analyses suggest C4 photosynthesis 5. CARBON DIOXIDE AND THE FUTURE
evolved in more than 60 plant lineages [36], possibly A common recurring theme emerging from the several
because the pathway uses enzymes that are already contributions to this issue is that low or falling atmos-
present in C3 leaves [37] and is constructed from pre- pheric CO2 concentrations, rather than a high CO2 or
existing gene networks [38]. Current evidence supports rising CO» concentrations, appear to be a potent selec-