cell type. Whereas Erola interacted equally well with a actions with Erola because they are reduced by adding DIT
protein that is likely to be PDI (figure 1a, asterisk) in all to the sample buffer prior to SDS-PAGE (figure 2b).
three cell lines, additional inter-molecular Erola interactions As the DIT concentration applied to the living cell
can be seen in THP!1 cells (figure 1a, lane 3, double asterisk). was increased, the intensity of the Ox2 signal declined (figure
These interacting proteins have yet to be formally identified, 2a, lanes 1-2), as did the total Erola signal (figure 2b, lanes
but based on published and unpublished data, one is likely to 1-2). Because the signal of PDI (immunoprecipitated from the
be the PDI homologue ERp44, which was identified as a same lysates) remained similar between 0 and 1.25 mM DTT
novel protein important for ER retention of Erola by the (figure 2c, lanes 1-2), the loss of signal was Erola specific.
Sitia group [51]. ERp44 was subsequently shown to be The loss of signal could reflect impaired detergent solubility
involved in the quality control of the IgM immunoglobulin in Triton X-100 owing to aggregation, loss of protein owing to
[55], adiponectin [56] and the serotonin receptor SERT [57]. degradation by ER quality control mechanisms or loss of anti-
These studies suggest that ERp44 is important for the assem- body reactivity after post-translational modification. However,
bly of proteins into oligomers, and probably acts as a given the fact that the polyclonal antiserum recognizes a
platform upon which its clients are assembled prior to deliv- range of conformations and redox states of Erola, we favour
ery to ER exit sites and post-ER compartments such as the the former explanation. Given the relationship between Erola
ERGIC [58,59]. ERp44 is also important for the regulation and calcium signalling described above, it would be intriguing
of IP3R1 [60], which is of particular interest given the link to determine whether the changes in Erola signal intensity
between Erola and IP3R1 in macrophages discussed in the relate to its recruitment to MAMs or to ER detergent-resistant
previous section. ERp44 mutants that bind Erola at high affi- membranes in a redox-dependent manner.
nity inhibit oxygen consumption [25], but further work is The DTT-induced change from Ox2 to Oxl1 can be
required to determine how ERp44 directly regulates the oxi- explained structurally by the transition of Erola from a com-
dation state, and hence activity, of Erola in different cell pact form with an intact regulatory C94—C131 disulfide (Ox2)

types. However, experiments in transfected HeLa cells have to a more ‘open’ active form (Ox1) in which the regulatory
