Keywords: decision-making; confidence; metacognition; error monitoring

1. INTRODUCTION and the road becomes slippery and wet. The approach
(a) Metacognition in perceptual choice to each bend still requires a deft angling of handlebars,
Imagine yourself cycling along a narrow, winding but now you are less certain about whether each
country lane on a summer’s day. Successfully negotiat- chosen action is optimized to steer the bicycle in a

ing each twist and turn in the road requires the fashion that appropriately meets the gradient of the
interpretation of a variety of subtle sensory cues and curve and the camber of the road. Action selection

their conversion into appropriate motor commands. proceeds as before, but you are unsure whether the
For example, incoming visual signals that reveal the actions chosen are the most appropriate ones. In
curvature of the road, or motion parallax signals aris- fact, you might even experience an immediate sense

ing from the trees beyond, allows you to gently that you have just made a poor choice. In short, you
adjust the handlebars towards the left or right to are less confident about your decisions.
steer the bicycle smoothly round each bend. Curiously, despite universal agreement that an
Over past decades, psychologists and neuroscien- accompanying sense of confidence is a subjectively
tists have devoted substantial effort to understand salient property of almost all our decisions, there is
the neural and computational mechanisms by which currently little consensus about how we might incor-
actions are selected on the basis of a stream of incom- porate decision confidence into formal models of
ing sensory information [1]. Because this sort of | choice behaviour or explore its biological substrates.
sensorimotor control often requires an observer to Fundamental questions remain unanswered. For
commit to one discrete action from among several example, is the information that gives rise to the
possible candidates, this literature has been informed ‘second-order’ estimate of confidence in a choice iden-