about the exact content of the communicated confidence the line is given by the signed mean of the distribution.
and the computational strategy by which observers com- The standard deviation of each distribution relates to
bine them to arrive at a collective decision. We will review the noisiness of the umpire’s perception. As such, a
the predictions of each model and assess them in the light reliable percept would be characterized by a large
of the existing literature. We will also present new empiri- mean (e.g. Jalal) and a small standard deviation (e.g.
cal data revealing further features of collective perceptual Qodrat). But how do Qodrat and Jalal resolve their dis-
decision-making by confidence sharing. We will place the agreement and come to a joint decision? The simple
findings from collective perceptual decision-making in formulation of the situation given above is the basis
the wider context of group decision-making [4] and of two recent models [9,10] of collective perceptual
discuss a possible functional social role for metacognitive decision-making.
awareness. Finally, we will briefly compare and attempt Sorkin et al. [10] proposed that, by communicating
to connect our current understanding of metacognition their confidence in their perceptual decision, the
at the levels of brain mechanism, individual behaviour umpires are in fact communicating their, respective,
and social interaction. p and o separately and distinctly to one another. As
we will see further below, the distinctness of these
two pieces of information is a critical feature of this
2. COLLECTIVE PERCEPTUAL model. To make an optimal collective decision (i.e.
DECISION-MAKING to minimize the chances of error given each umpires’
Qodrat and Jalal (figure 1) are two cricket umpires.” decision noise), the two umpires (i.e. the group) some-
The bowler (figure 1, top) has just made his run and how evaluate the term (UQ/0Q) + (uy /07) and take its
bowled the ball; but the two umpires disagree about sign as their joint decision. Defining perceptual sensi-
whether his foot crossed the line or not. Although tivity (s) as inversely proportional to standard
Qodrat has announced a ‘no ball’, Jalal contends that deviation (such that s = k/o; where k represents a con-
there was no such error. Let us stop here and examine stant term; see equation (3.3) below for the exact
the situation. We can think of each umpire’s visual definition of slope, the group’s sensitivity, Sgroups is