1 s 1 - 1 Z 14 =——
a
a
a“
T T T T
1 MS 1 MS 1 MS 1 MS

Figure 2. A Bateman gradient (or sexual selection gradient) is the slope of a linear regression between mating success (MS), measured as number of mates, and
teproductive success (RS) measured as number of offspring [14,15]. Here standardized Bateman gradients (i.e. with mean set to unity) illustrate four scenarios (a—d),
with dashed lines for males and solid lines for females. A steeper slope denotes a stronger directional selection for mating success. (a) When males have a steeper
slope, we expect conventional sex-roles (sensu [16], i.e. that males are the sex that predominantly competes for partners) to arise and (b) reversed sex-roles (that
females are the sex that predominantly competes for partners) when females have the steeper slope. More troublesome when it comes to ‘sex-role’ terminology is
the fact that both sexes can show similar directional selection for mating success, with (c) steep or (d) shallow slopes in both sexes.

way by which males increase their reproductive success [2] large, dominant and highly ornamented females are more
(figure 2a,c). It is now clear that female reproductive success successful, it generates both intra- and inter-sexual selection
can also depend on number of mates, because of direct and for these traits. Because a larger number of mates translate
indirect benefits, and because of effects of genetic diversity directly into a higher reproductive success for the females,
within broods. Indeed, a recent study of the cricket Gryllus it also means that species such as these are likely to have Bate-
campestris reported that, in a natural population, the gradient man gradients with steeper slopes for females than for males
of the relationship between number of mates and lifetime (cf. figure 2b). In N. ophidion, males father all the offspring
reproductive success was of equal magnitude and positive they care for [29], despite the polyandry. By contrast, there
for both males and females [19] (cf. figure 2c). is a high level of multiple paternity in jacana broods [26].
There are many costs of mating in general, and with mul- In bronze-winged jacanas, not all males in a harem get eggs
tiple partners in particular [20,21]. For example, mate to incubate, but females appear to ‘bribe’ such males to