2. The biology of the encapsulated bacteria like phylogenies [29]. Further, genes and consortia of genes
The three ‘meningitis’ bacteria are genetically unrelated to each such the capsule-encoding regions can spread through popu-
other yet they share a number of features other than causing lations rapidly [30] so that linkage among phenotypic
similar disease syndromes [4]. All three are normally harmless characteristics encoded by different parts of the genome is not
members of the microbiota of the human naso- and oro- necessarily imposed by descent.

pharynx [14], which are spread person-to-person and have Multilocus sequence typing [31] was developed to investi-
no known animal reservoir [15]. All can be encapsulated gate the population structure of recombining bacteria. Using
with polysaccharide coats that exist in a variety of antigenically the same principle as multilocus enzyme electrophoresis [32],
distinct forms, some of which mimic human polysaccharides it indexes variation at multiple housekeeping loci, i.e. genes
and are poorly recognized by the immune system [1,12]. The under stabilizing selection for conservation of metabolic func-
capsules, which are likely to have evolved to promote trans- tion. The assignment of unique, but arbitrary, numbers to
mission among hosts, perhaps by preventing desiccation allelic variants accounts for the fact that genes may vary by
and/or protecting the bacteria from damage by UV light mutational or by recombination events. The allelic variants at
during aerosol transmission [16], are also key elements in dis- all loci examined, typically seven, are combined to form
ease causation, as only those bacteria that express a capsule sequence type (ST). For many bacteria, including the meningi-
are likely to cause disease [17]. The primary reason for this is tis organisms, these STs cluster in groups or ‘clonal complexes’
that some, but not all, of these capsules are anti-opsonizing, which are associated with phenotypic properties of clinical
allowing the bacteria to evade immune killing [18]. Once importance such as propensity to cause disease, expression of
they have invaded host tissues, these organisms can spread vaccine antigens or antimicrobial resistance. Most meningococ-
systemically and rapidly as a bacteraemia and infect secondary cal disease is caused by a limited number of these clonal
sites such as the meninges and cerebrosprinal fluid. The cap- complexes, the ‘hyperinvasive lineages’ [33-35].

sules are, therefore, virulence determinants, i.e. they enhance
virulence of the bacteria that express them; however, while