lowing eradications. I review the controversial history of the [5, p. 56]. Few biologists would agree with this extreme statement
niche concept in the ecological literature, including its multiple of the niche theory (particularly ‘inevitably’ and ‘pointless’), so it
and conflicting definitions, and summarize some more recent is not surprising that the authors rejected it. However, they went
developments in ecological theory. Using monkeypox as a on to make more measured arguments. Fenner ef al. [4] acknowl-
central case study, I argue that the niche and associated ecologi- edged that there was natural concern about the vacated smallpox
cal ideas provide a useful framework to assess the possible niche when monkeypox virus was first discovered to infect
impacts of widespread control of one pathogen on the sur- humans in Africa in 1970. They then reviewed subsequent gen-
rounding pathogen community. I propose the term ‘vacated etic and epidemiological evidence, showing that monkeypox is
niche’ to describe the gap left by an eradication, and delineate not a direct ancestor of smallpox and transmissibility among
the factors governing which—if any—unintended conse- humans had been concluded to be too low to allow establish-
quences may arise. I conclude by surveying the relevance of ment in human populations [23]. (These arguments run
these ideas to a range of infectious diseases, and discussing parallel to those cited by Breman & Henderson [6] in dismissing
the implications for eradication and post-eradication planning. any imminent risk from monkeypox.) Together with the fact that

numerous countries had remained free of smallpox and other
diseases for extended periods, Fenner et al. [4] were left sceptical

2. Roots of the controversy: the case of the niche hypothesis.
. . h Otteson et al. [5] also took a sceptical tone, but discussed
against niches the existence of pathogen niches and introduced the idea of
To move towards a reconciled picture, it is useful to review the resource competition among pathogens. They emphasized

basis and context for the dissenting views. Fenner’s 1981 that there is no evidence that vacated niches are beneficial

