orthopoxvirus, explaining the lack of competitive release. All vaccines. Because sylvatic strains spill over frequently to a
of these questions cry out for further investigation. humans, and epidemiological and experimental evidence

The eradication of rinderpest was a colossal achievement, shows no sign that significant adaptation to humans is needed,
but appears to have led to competitive release of the related it appears likely that sylvatic strains could readily fill a vacated
morbillivirus that causes peste des petits ruminants (PPR) niche for dengue if vaccination were terminated [19,72]. A con-
[63]. PPR virus is chiefly associated with sheep and goats, trary example is yellow fever, for which urban transmission
but can infect other livestock species as well as wild ungulates cycles were interrupted in the Americas in the 1930s, and sylvatic
[64]. Historically, PPR was controlled using live-attenuated rin- strains have not reinvaded [22]. Proposed explanations include
derpest vaccine, but this practice had to be stopped in order for cross-protective immunity from dengue virus or other
countries to confirm rinderpest-free status [64,65]. Over the flaviviruses (i.e. competition), the distance between cities and
decade since the last rinderpest cases were detected, reported foci of sylvatic transmission (i.e. dispersal limitation), and the
outbreaks of PPR have grown in intensity and the geographical fact that, unlike dengue, yellow fever has not become adapted
range of the virus is spreading in Africa and Asia [63,64]. It is to the urban mosquito Aedes aegypti [73]. Nonetheless some
unknown whether rinderpest infection or vaccination was experts believe it is just a matter of time before urban yellow
the greater contributor to cross-immunity, and the importance fever is re-established in South America [73].
of wildlife hosts in the resurgence of PPR is also unclear; these Competitive release and niche arguments also pertain to
factors will influence future prospects for PPR control. Ironi- many pathogens subject to widespread, effective control
cally, PPR is thought to have aided rinderpest eradication in measures. One prominent example is P. knowlesi, a zoonotic
regions where vaccination levels were inadequate, by subclini- source of severe human malaria that appears to have risen in
cally infecting cattle and bolstering herd immunity [66]. Such incidence as successful control efforts have driven down
cross-immunizing ‘help’ from the pathogen community turns malaria from endemic human strains [18]. Current evidence
out to be a double-edged sword in light of competitive release. suggests that, like monkeypox in Africa, P. knowlesi has been

For poliovirus, concerns have centred on the possibility that a sporadic zoonotic infection in Southeast Asia since ancient