THEORY OF COMPUTATION of a general framework called ‘regular expressions’,
We have an intuitive sense that some cognitive compu- Which provide a very powerful basis for computer-

tations are more difficult than others. For most people, based search that underlies searching, replacing and
it is harder to play chess or solve equations thanto buy Other functions in many computer programs. This
groceries or drive a car. For most of us, it is more dif- ability to use regular expressions to match patterns
ficult to parse sentences in a non-native language was first instantiated in the grep function in UNIX/

(regardless of our level of proficiency) than in our Linux, and has proved so useful that the term ‘grep’

native language. However, a central finding of compu- has entered hacker lingo as a verb meaning ‘to search
ter science is that our intuitions about complexity do by computer’. ; . .
not necessarily apply to computer programs. In fact, Regular expressions are composed using a few simple

it has proved relatively easy to create machines that | but powerful rules and operators, familiar to many
can play chess at a high level, but so far impossible to computer users. The operator *, as used earlier,
create adequate car-driving systems. Because of this, | ™eans ‘any string of any length’ and by appending it
an important component of modern computer science  t© Our search string (e.g. ‘string’), we can find our
is a framework for quantifying the ‘difficulty’ or ‘com- _—‘ target pattern even if preceded by anything (*string),
plexity’ of a computational problem or algorithm in followed by anything (string*) or buried in anything
terms that are explicit and unambiguous. Starting with — (“string*).. More specific operators also allow us to
the work of the brilliant mathematician Alan Turing,  SPecify a single, unspecified character (?), a character
and combined with further insights owing to Gédel, from a particular set (e.g. numbers {0-9} versus letters
Church, Post, Kleene, Chomsky and many others, {a—z}), or even a specific number of characters from a
FLT has grown today into one key pillar of the theory certain set. Any time you have some pattern or a set of