with the Turing machine an additional memory mata in hierarchies of ascending power, as well as finer
system but discard the assumption that this memory subdivisions of existing hierarchies [16], we focus on
can be freely accessed. For example, a ‘pushdown the Chomsky hierarchy in this work owing to its interdis-
automaton’ (PDA) includes an FSA and a pushdown ciplinary acceptance and understanding. Anyone who
stack (which is a memory that can only return the studies basic computer science or the theory of algor-
most recent item placed upon it, like the stack of — ithms will be familiar with the framework, and this is
trays in a cafeteria). Because a stack is more limited more than can be said for any other framework we
than the infinite tape, it is intuitive (and can be know of. We do not claim that this whole set of automata
shown mathematically) that the PDA is less powerful (including FSAs and Turing machines) is the best or the
than a Turing machine, while being more powerful most insightful way of arranging the different types of
than an FSA. And as before, the set of patterns recog- neural computations that we ultimately want to under-
nizable by the PDA is a proper subset of those stand as psychologists, biologists or neuroscientists
captured by the Turing machine. In fact, a PDA can [22]. Indeed, as our understanding of neural compu-
recognize the A”B” language discussed earlier, which tation in vertebrates progresses, it seems likely that
is beyond an FSA. Thus, we now have a nested set different hierarchies will arise, and prove to be more
of patterns, enclosed one within the other like Russian useful. Until such progress is made, however, FLT
dolls. A second intermediate form of automaton is seems to provide the best theoretical starting point, and
called a linear-bounded automaton and _ includes indeed has no obvious competition.

both the FSA and PDA within it. Figure 2 provides One might object that some models of neural
an illustration of this nested hierarchy. computation, especially connectionist networks, offer
The Chomsky hierarchy provides a broad framework just such an alternative framework. This is not true.

for discussing the computational power of automata, In fact, neural networks are automata, like any
universally accepted in this role in theoretical computer other well-defined computational system. Indeed,