fers from two major weaknesses. First, our intuitions Caledonian crow (Corvus moneduloides) or a rook
of how we solve problems have repeatedly been (Corvus frugilegus), for example, have the wherewithal
shown not to reflect psychological reality [19,20]. to spontaneously manufacture a hook to pull up a
Second, a reliance on folk psychological intuitions bucket containing food [24,25]? Shanahan [26] takes
may detract from considering other, arguably more a bottom-up approach, drawing on recent advances
‘killjoy’ explanations based on simpler mechanisms in brain connectivity to propose a cognitive architec-
(17,18]. A fundamentally different approach advo- ture that can generate such seemingly insightful
cated by some of the contributors to this issue is to solutions to novel problems in the physical world.
build models of simple neural networks to determine This consists of a number of discrete modules with
the minimal necessary requirements to solve a specific extensive internal connectivity (a ‘modular small-
task. These models often yield rather surprising world network’), which are, in turn, connected to
results, suggesting that abilities that are commonly one another through nodes known as connector hubs
considered to be complex may in fact be implemented to form a ‘connective core’. Such a system may
by very simple networks (see Chittka ez al. [21]). A cir- enable the unanticipated integration of mental pro-
cuit of only a few hundred neurons, for example, has cesses to produce a coherent sequence of actions to
been shown to suffice for reliable face recognition achieve a goal. This theoretical approach thus holds

[22]. This approach is clearly of great value in quanti- the great promise of allowing us to move beyond current
fying basic computational complexity, undermining vague conceptions of insight as a sudden, magical
the assumption that many cognitive feats require big ‘Eureka moment’, into a tangible computational pro-
brains [21,23]. Indeed, recent studies have revealed a cess that is amenable to research. An important
number of striking cognitive feats in small-brained ani- question arising from this work is how and why, given

mals such as insects and, as Webb [3] discusses, there that the brains of humans, macaques, cats and pigeons
is evidence that insects may employ internal mental are all known to possess a connective core, these species