low level of photosynthetic activity, were detected in the area. [23,41,42] and annual rainfall is spatially homogeneous, any
In southern CAR and in the north of the Republic of Congo, modification in dry season length and intensity could have
forest growing on a sandstone plateau showed much lower dramatic consequences on vegetation structure and greenness
deciduousness than climatically expected. These results are [43]. Some slight climatic differences might be more important
in strong agreement with the results of Bohlman [35], who than previously thought. In the study area, differences in veg-
reported that deciduousness decreases with increasing etation phenology and traits have been evidenced and these
annual rainfall, but also that geology can alter this relation- can be linked not only to differences in soil properties, but
ship [8]. In the western and wettest part of the study area, also to slight differences in climate variables which may
the dominance of evergreen forests is probably driven by have been overlooked. The distribution of semi-deciduous
climate rather than particular geological substrate. and disturbed vegetation is in line with the Sangha River Inter-
Semi-deciduous forests associated with a high level of val, a region that has probably experienced more impact of
photosynthetic activity dominated large parts of the study past climate changes than elsewhere in the study area. In
area. The location of these semi-deciduous forests matches fact, the Sangha sub-river basin of the Congo River has regu-
with the Sangha River Interval, a 400 km wide area (14—18° E) larly received less precipitation between 1950 and 1980 than
characterized by a low endemism, which has experienced the Oubangui and Central Congo sub-basin bordering it
major vegetation changes in the past [36]. Forest fragmentation [24]. Although new and more detailed data are necessary to
has occurred as recently as during the Holocene (approx. confirm this, we can tentatively conclude the relative fragility
2500 BP) followed by the expansion of pioneer and secondary of this area in the face of climate changes, notably precipitation
species [37,38]. Furthermore, the opening of such a ‘corridor’ decrease and/or dry season increase.
emerged from recent vegetation modelling of different scenarios Tropical forests do not necessarily function similarly across
of climate changes [2], and corresponds to the very open forests the globe, and it is crucial to identify the differences in the
where human activities are important along roads [7]. effects of the current climate on the functioning of located and
Our findings fit well with national vegetation maps in the characterized tropical forests in order to forecast responses to
study area. In CAR, the location of evergreen forests typical of climatic changes. We showed that the same drivers (water
the sandstone plateau is correctly mapped [5,7,9]. The open and light) determine forest greenness in Africa and Amazonia