(Cameroon); 3, Kogo (Equatorial Guinea); 4 and 5, Okala (Libreville) and 6, Tassi (Loango National Park) in Gabon (scale bar, 3 cm).

structures built above ground with clay in the Early Iron Age modelling of vegetation change over the past 2000 years, indi-
disappear in favour of pits, and the ceramic traditions are totally cating that a spurt of savanna colonization corresponds to the
different, later styles being characterized by frequent use of period covered by the slave trade [101]. It seems likely that
recurrent patterns created using wooden roulettes, with no depopulation in the Lopé region resulted in reduced frequen-
evidence of cultural exchange [41]. cies of savanna fires, allowing forest expansion, and reduced
The metallurgists of the Late Iron Age resettled along intensity of agriculture, resulting in forest succession from
hilltops and practised shifting cultivation [39]. Ceramics of young to more mature formations.
this period include large and small pots of flattened spherical However, the subject has received little attention and
shape with out-curved apexes and pots of uneven curvature, deserves further study by archaeologists, historians and geo-
as well as clay pipes indicating smoking of tobacco. The graphers, although, from about 500 years BP onwards, the
decoration of these pots is unique, with small circular archaeological data are of limited value owing to the fact
motifs made with knotted strips of plant material forming that archaeologists rarely radiocarbon date sites that they
herringbone patterns. The designs on pots form a band of know on the basis of stratigraphy and pottery to belong to
variable width high on the sphere, and similar patterns are the relatively recent past. Hence, for this period, we have to
found on the clay bowls of pipes. rely on historical documents or undertake new detailed
The maximum expansion of the new metallurgists peaks archaeological surveys.

around 500 years BP (figure 3) and then decreases to around
100 years BP. While the end of this last phase coincides with
the end of the Little Ice Age, other factors are probably
important. This period was marked by the first contacts

4. Discussion and conclusion