human population decline. If the population rise was built on longer-term climate change resulting in the cyclical retraction ©
cultivation of pearl millet (P. glaucum) [98] during a period of of forests into refuges and expansion across the Congo basin 2
climatic stress for rainforest vegetation and from 1400 years [5,119], no scientific study of vegetation, including work on | =
BP conditions became too humid for this species, then it the dynamics of carbon stocks, should ignore the possibility — &
would have been difficult to maintain high populations, and of disturbance linked to human activities over the past two =
people may have migrated away in search of a climate appro- millennia having a significant bearing on the results. Archae- | =
priate for millet cultivation. If Mbida’s report of banana ologists have developed methods of mapping past human = &
cultivation [112] in the Yaoundé area proves reliable this activity using trees such as A. klaineana, Lophira alata and Bail- = &
hypothesis would seem less likely, because bananas would lonella toxisperma, all of which are associated with old village = 8&8
have thrived in the new climate, but if no alternative was sites [120]. Furthermore, many of the forests with the highest iS
available, then this hypothesis seems plausible. densities of large mammals, which tend to be prioritized for S$
An alternative hypothesis, which remains impossible to conservation, are in areas that have been significantly
test due to the fact that acidic soils preclude the discovery impacted by humans over the past 1000 years or so [103].
of human bodies dating to this time, is that the risk of epi- This synthesis of 30 years of archaeological studies allows
demics would have increased as the human population us to describe the main stages in cultural development, as
density increased. Old literature on epidemics in Atlantic well as key changes in climatic conditions through the past
Central Africa shows that sleeping sickness seems to have 5000 years. The picture we have painted is not without ana-
been the disease that most affected the populations of the logy to the current situation, where human populations are
forest, owing to its high mortality rate. At the end of the nine- growing in the context of increasing climatic stress. Currently,
teenth century, the French colonial administration reported a it seems unlikely that we will avoid the large-scale deforesta-
major outbreak of trypanosomiasis, which resulted in the dis- tion that such circumstances have caused repeatedly in the
appearance of populations in eastern Gabon and northern past. The combination of climate change and increased log-
Congo [113]. Around the year 1920, when Dr Eugene Jamot ging pressure is likely to result in increased frequencies of
fought against human African trypanosomiasis in South forest fires [110], whereas the global appetite for productive
Cameroon, he found that 116000 persons out of 664000 agricultural land is likely to see more and more of the Central