[13-16]. This not only ensures the reductive dehalogenase OCPA-dependent transcriptional activation of the GFPuy gene
is only produced when substrate is present, but also avoids occurs within the E. coli host. Although a comparison with pub-
an accumulation of the product from the dehalogenation lished (-galactosidase-based assays reveals the amplification
reaction leading to persistent signalling. Detailed structural level achieved using GPFuy to be significantly smaller (over a
information on CprK in a range of states has revealed that 20-fold increase has been reported [17,22]), the pGFPyy-DB7
OCPA binds to the effector domain central a-helix pair inter- system allows for a more accurate and direct in vivo observation
face, with concomitant rigid body reorientation of the effector of protein expression levels. We measured fluorescence levels as
domain with only minor changes in residues lining the a function of OCPA concentration in the medium and found a sig-
ligand-binding site. The chloride atom is located in a hydro- moidal dependence in the data that could be fitted to a Hill
phobic pocket at the central a-helix pair surface (formed by equation, with a Hill coefficient of n = 2.0 + 0.2 and an apparent
Y130, L131, K133, V134). No directional halogen bonding Kg of 0.019 + 0.002 1M (figure 3 and table 1). Our apparent Kg is
contacts can be observed [21]. The relatively weak nature of the binding constant calculated as the concentration at which
these hydrophobic contacts and the fact these residues only effector induces half Fax (maximum fluorescence). Our apparent
undergo minor changes upon ligand binding appears incon- Kg data are significantly smaller than that previously reported
sistent with the marked difference in affinity and response in vitro for OCPA (Kg= 0.8-3.5 1M) [13-16]. In contrast to the
displayed by CprK towards OCPA and HPA. We proposed direct measurement of formation of the CprK : OCPA complex
that in addition to detecting the presence of the halogen for the in vitro experiment, the in vivo data probably report on
atom directly, through hydrophobic contacts, CprK senses the formation of the (CprK : OCPA : dehalobox : RNA polymer-

the pK, of the phenolic moiety [14,16]. The phenol group is ase) quaternary complex. Indeed, it was found that the CprK


effector-binding domain

Figure 1. (a) Stereo view of an overlay of the CprK effector binding site in the OCPA-bound (with cyan carbon atoms) and unbound (green carbon atoms) con-