environmental conditions [137], but it remains poorly studied text of mating system evolution. Sexual conflict theory [146]
among mammals. Epigenetic modifications of genetic infor- provides a more recent example of considering interdepen-
mation can also result in modulation of offspring social dencies in social behaviour, in this case between males and

behaviour in response to social or ecological stimuli during females [147,148]. Moreover, kin selection theory has been


successful in explaining interindividual differences in social a fruitful avenue for future research into social determinants

behaviour as a function of the presence of close kin of individual variation in mammalian social behaviour. Here,
[35,149]. There may even be interesting links between these as in other contexts, however, experimentation will eventually a
two behavioural domains [150]. Several contributions to be required to separate causation from correlation when s
this Theme Issue highlight the fact, however, that many studying association patterns between social phenomena. a
other aspects of social structure are also influenced and 2.
modulated by a variety of social factors. Ss
For example, Sachser et al. [140] summarize evidence from . =
experimental studies on rodents demonstrating that the social 5. Conclusions =
environment that an individual experiences during its entire The explicit focus on all levels of explanation reveals how | ‘S
lifetime, including the prenatal phase, has lasting effects on mammalian sociality is constrained by ecological, evolution- ©
adult social behaviour, which, in turn, raises a suite of inter- ary, genetic and developmental factors. Admittedly, no 2
esting questions about the underlying developmental and single study has examined all these constraints simul- 9 =
proximate mechanisms. Runcie et al. [151] examine the taneously, but evaluating these studies together emphasizes 3
extent to which the expression of different genotypes is influ- the close functional and mechanistic integration of these =
enced by the social environment. Their studies on wild constraints and the kinds of insights that might be gained = =
baboons reveal that social connectedness, maternal domin- from a truly Tinbergian approach. In addition, this reveals &