
applications across all active ingredients for dosage, average I FH
percentage of active ingredient-by-plot combinations for fre-

quency; see the electronic supplementary material for Figure 1. Patterns of application of the most frequently used insecticides (plus
detailed methodology). Underdosing (e.g. copper oxychloride indoxacarb), fungicide and herbicide by 220 smallholder farmers from 26 central
and glyphosate) was more common than overdosing (e.g. Amazonian floodplain villages producing fruits and vegetables to supply capital
indoxacarb and methyl parathion), as 44.5 per cent of all appli- city Manaus. Boxes show 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles, whiskers 10th and
cations were below minimum recommended doses when 90th percentiles, of (a) doses of application and (b) frequencies of application.
compared with 26.8 per cent above maximum recommended Minimum and maximum doses recommended by the manufacturers for the
doses. By contrast, 96 per cent of all active ingredient-by-farm crops cultivated in the area are shown as horizontal dashed lines. Only for
combinations were applied more frequently than  rec- three active ingredients are there recommended frequencies of application;
ommended. In fact, on average, application frequencies were for other active ingredients frequency is ‘as needed’. The number of farmers
fivefold more than those recommended. Finally, in several reporting use of each active ingredient is shown in the top of (6). Data
instances, the active ingredients employed were not even rec- reanalysed from interviews conducted in [29].

ommended for the pests they were intended to control.
Adherence to technical recommendations is relevant because

they follow guidelines established by the Brazilian Ministries This comes to the extreme of spraying food products at
of Agriculture, Health, and Environment to assure on the one packaging to protect them during transportation (A. V.
hand agronomical efficacy, and on the other minimization of Waichman 2005, personal observation).

risk to human and environmental health.
Several factors may contribute to this overall pattern.