
for export organisms (rats, which are used as model organisms for
Pesticide use by the large-scale soya bean producer portrayed a mammal toxicity in general and human toxicity in particular;
scenario of intensification of pesticide footprint over time fish—usually rainbow trout, Daphnia and algae, the standard
despite general adherence to technical recommendations and test species for aquatic organisms) and summed the toxic
even voluntary replacement of more hazardous pesticides. units of the different active ingredients for each model organism

Expansion of soya bean plantation in the farm was ac- (see the electronic supplementary material for methodological
companied by a significant increase in the total mass of details). Such analysis indicated that the toxicity per unit area
pesticide formulations applied—from 2.4 to 13.7 tons per cycle. declined by 56 per cent over time for mammals. In strong con-
Most importantly, there was also a marked and monotonic trast, however, the toxicity to aquatic organisms increased 5.4
increase in dosage, as masses of pesticides applied per unit times for fishes, 135 times for Daphnia and 1.7 times for algae
area increased fourfold between 2003/2004 and 2008/2009 (figure 2e). This can be explained by the fact that model organ-
(figure 2a). In the same time period, the number of active ingre- isms varied in their sensitivity to pesticides, but also because
dients applied increased from 16 to 39 (figure 2b). By 2008/2009, there apparently was no correlation in the toxicity of 51 active
18 herbicidal, 13 insecticidal and eight fungicidal active ingredi- ingredients employed on the farm between terrestrial and
ents were employed. Fifty-seven per cent of all recorded aquatic organisms (Spearman r = 0.097, p = 0.503 between rat
applications were outside the technical recommendations for and fish; r= 0.257, p=0.072 between rat and Daphnia; r=
doses, 46 per cent below minimum recommended doses and 0.016, p = 0.915 between rat and algae). In other words, selection
10 per cent above maximum recommended doses (see the elec- of pesticides that might be more protective of mammals does not
tronic supplementary material, table S1). Ten per cent of all guarantee protection of aquatic organisms.
active ingredient-by-plot combinations were above technical Note that these estimates are not expressing total volumes
recommendations for frequency of application. On average, of pesticides applied on the farm—which would be trivial
application frequencies were 0.9-fold those recommended. considering the increase in area planted—but the volume
