relative importance of variations in letter—sound knowledge, to learning to decode print is vocabulary knowledge. Current
phonemic awareness and RAN as predictors of reading abil- evidence, however, suggests that vocabulary knowledge is
ity would differ in English in comparison with languages only weakly related to learning to decode print, at least in
whose orthographies have more consistent spelling-sound the early stages of learning to read. For example, the longitudi-
correspondences. Some have argued [32] that in consistent nal study of Lervag et al. [21] found no unique relationship
orthographies, RAN is the predominant predictor of vari- between a latent verbal ability factor (defined by vocabulary
ations in reading ability (which is usually measured by and similarities subtests from the Wechsler Preschool and Pri-
measures of reading fluency), whereas PA and letter-sound mary Scale of Intelligence test) and reading ability measured
knowledge are much less important. A wide range of studies after three months in school. Similarly, a large-scale longitudi-
have examined the predictive relationship between RAN and nal study in England [14] found no unique relationship
reading in different languages with rather complex and between receptive vocabulary skills measured at school entry
inconsistent results (for reviews see [13,28]). These inconsis- and decoding skills measured after 1 and 2 years of formal
tencies likely reflect the fact that different studies have used instruction (though vocabulary and grammatical skills were
different measures of reading and RAN. unique predictors of reading comprehension skills measured
To try to reconcile these apparent inconsistencies a group after 2 years in school). It seems likely, however, that vocabu-
of us [13] conducted a large-scale longitudinal study of lary skills will be more important in older children once they
learning to read, using directly comparable measures, in have made progress in understanding the alphabetic principle
four languages (English, Spanish, Slovak, Czech). The study [37]. There is also evidence from small-scale experimental
began just before or soon after the start of formal reading studies that knowledge of specific word meanings may be
instruction in all languages and assessed the relative impor- important for children learning to read those words [38]. One
tance of PA, letter—sound knowledge, RAN and verbal interpretation of such findings is that word-specific knowledge
memory span measured at the beginning of the study as pre- may be important for learning to read a word (in line with the
dictors of reading ability some 10 months later. The findings division of labour idea embodied in the triangle model dis-
revealed a remarkably clear pattern with PA, letter-sound cussed earlier), but that general measures of the breadth of
knowledge and RAN (but not verbal memory span) being vocabulary knowledge are relatively insensitive as indices of