accessed. Nevertheless, young chimpanzees will still practise cumstance, there are some general principles relevant to the
pestle-pounding with a tool left by another. After weaning it importance of artefacts in learning to use tools. The same situ-
will take them years to perform the full behavioural sequence ation holds for another well-known tool-user in the animal
effectively on their own; until then, they have to depend solely kingdom, the New Caledonian crow [72]. Young crows follow
on tool re-use to engage in pestle-pounding [50]. their parents for several weeks after fledging, and scrounge

food from them. They first exclusively use tools previously
used by their parents, gradually manufacturing their own after

indi many months. Thus, parents scaffold the young birds’ learnin;
4. General findings of an inn ee 8
to use tools. The parents’ tool-use activity also provides an arte-
Across the studies with chimpanzees, we see two major par- fact in a way not present in non-human primates: the birds
allels. First, youngest individuals re-use tools, and others’ manufacture tools from the tough leaves of Pandanus trees by cut-
tolerance for young individuals allows them to be near ting and ripping segments from the leaves. Their actions leave an
others while they use tools. Infant chimpanzees are nearly outline of the removed piece. These counterparts provide easier
universally tolerated and frequently obtain tools or manip- opportunities for young birds to rip a new segment than if they
ulate materials relevant to tool-use activity while others are attempted to rip an intact leaf. This phenomenon suggests some-
active at a tool-use site. Older juveniles typically have to thing to look for in other species: the possibility that manufacture
wait for tools and tool-use sites to be abandoned before ofa tool creates an opportunity for another individual to manu-
they can go there or retrieve the tools. Second, for tool-use facture another with less effort or with greater chances of success.
behaviours that include a manufacturing phase (such as The data we have reviewed from non-human primates
,
ant-dipping and pestle-pounding), younger individuals are bolstered with the example of New Caledonian crows,
less likely to manufacture a tool and more likely to use one suggest the following as general principles of how artefacts