time (ms) a

(b) NS
(i) (ii) thalamically evoked spontaneous core N

+4 . |

B

_ estim elect

Figure 4. Neural dynamics in vitro cortical networks. (a) Simultaneous intracellular recordings from two neurons in organotypic cortical slices in response to a single
electrical stimulus at t = 0 ms. The polysynaptic activity in both neurons provides a measure of the recurrent neural network activity. The fact that both neurons fire
with a high probability within specific time windows across trials (overlaid traces) demonstrates the reproducibility of the network dynamics and the presence of
temporal information. Data shown consist of 20 superimposed traces obtained from the red and blue neuron (adapted from Buonomano [48]). (6) (i) Simultaneous
recordings from several L-IV neurons using calcium imaging shows stimulation-induced spatio-temporal patterns of network activity generated as a result of internal
dynamics of the network. Light microscope image of a somatosensory thalamocortical slice preparation. Stimulating electrode (stim elect) is placed in the ventral
basalis (VB) as indicated by the yellow square and recordings were made from the region indicated by the red square. (ii) Representative movies obtained from
thalamically induced network activation and spontaneous network activity. The rightmost column of panels shows core sample movies that represent neurons that
are coactive during both electrical stimulation and spontaneous network activity (reproduced with permission from Luczak & MacLean [85]).

subpopulation of neurons connected to the recorded cell. In also found that subsets of L-IV cells that participated in tha-
this example, is it also clear that across trials the two neurons lamically evoked network responses also participated in
tend to fire at different time points (129 and 205 ms after the spontaneous network activity (figure 4b). Together, these
stimulus). In a manner of speaking, these neurons and the results suggest that cortical networks in vitro can generate