Figure 1. Inhibition-based attractor network model for grid cells. (a) A hexagonal grid pattern forms spontaneously (here over a period of 500 ms) on a two-
dimensional neuronal lattice consisting of stellate cells that have all-or-none inhibitory connections with each other. Neurons are arranged on the lattice according to
their spatial phases. Activity is colour-coded, as indicated by the scale bar at the bottom. Connection radii R of two example neurons are shown as white and green
circles (diameter 2R). Note lower activity where the circles overlap (at 500 ms). (b) Simulated single neuron activity (red dots) over 10 min of foraging in a 1.8 m
diameter circular arena. Wo is the strength of the inhibitory connectivity of the network; R is the radius. Note that Wo and R control the size of the grid fields and
their spacing. (c) Effect of excitatory drive from the hippocampus. Spike distribution plots (as in 6) and directional tuning curves (firing rate as a function of
direction) for two example cells in the presence of strong hippocampal output (top) and weak hippocampal output (bottom). (d) Grid scores (sixfold rotational
symmetry) and mean vector length (directional tuning) as a function of the strength of external input (means ++ s.e.m.). With large hippocampal inputs, high grid
scores are obtained, as in the top image in (c). When the external input is decreased below a critical amount, as in the bottom image of (c), the activity on the
neuronal sheet gets easily distorted and hexagonal structure is not detectable over time. At the same time, the head-directional input becomes the dominant source
of input and the neurons show high directional tuning. (a,b) Adapted from [32]; (c,d) from [33].

The fact that a purely inhibitory network can generate grid these sets of studies suggest that connections do not have
cells has already been noted by Burak & Fiete [30]; however, to be Mexican-hat type and that all-or-none inhibitory
the connectivity of their model still follows a Mexican-hat connectivity is sufficient for grid formation.
shape in the sense that cells with similar phases inhibit each A potential problem is that a purely inhibitory network
other less and inhibition then increases as phase differences depends on tonic external excitatory drive for keeping cells
increase, after which the inhibition again decays to zero. The sufficiently near firing threshold to fire. Such excitatory input
all-or-none connectivity in Couey et al. [32] could be seen as a can come from a variety of sources, one of which could be
special case of the Burak-and-Fiete weight matrix in which the hippocampus, which, via the deep MEC layers, has
the amplitude of the positive Gaussian is zero (a = 0 in their strong projections back to the superficial layers of the MEC
eqn 3) and the negative Gaussian has steep flanks. In [35,36]. Recent work has shown that entorhinal grids disappear
any case, the hexagonal pattern emerges as an optimally after inactivation of the hippocampus [33]. The loss of grid pat-
packed arrangement of inhibition circles surrounding activity terns is contingent on a drop in the firing rate of the grid cells
bumps. Although no fundamental differences exist between and coincides with the appearance of directional tuning in grid