stand the nuances of NuMA and LGN localization, but all depletion of progenitor neurons, with a concomitant increase
signs point to them as crucial in unravelling the molecular in the number of differentiated ones [52].
mechanism guiding divisional orientation. It is unclear why inheritance of a particular centriole pro-
Another possibility might be inherent to the positioning motes stemness in these cells. It is possible that it could be
of the centrosomes themselves. Centrosomes are the under- due to unique proteins or RNAs that localize to the appen-
lying organelles of each spindle pole and function as dages or the PCM [53] that may regulate cell fate, including
microtubule organizing centres. Duplicated centrosomes are Ninein itself, and that are disproportionally shuttled via cen-
often localized within close proximity to each other, and trosomes to progeny cells, providing a novel mechanism by
their separation towards opposite sides of a cell is required which to segregate cell fate determinants. It is a tempting
for the formation of a functional bipolar spindle in mitosis speculation, since in surf clam, unique centrosomal RNAs,
in vertebrates. Separation can be accomplished either by the including those for morphogens, are segregated into cells
migration of one pole in relation to the other, or by the sim- with a clear cell fate path [54]. However, the overlooked
ultaneous separation which is then followed by rotation of fact is that centrosome maturation has a functional conse-
the spindle into position. As observed during the migratory quence: the appendage-bearing older mother centrosome is
positioning of centrosomes in Drosophila male germ stem better able to anchor to the cortex and promote more robust
cells (GSCs) [43] and neuroblasts [44], positioning of the nucleation of microtubules, with greater stabilization of
spindle poles occurs prior to mitosis, with one centrosome astral microtubules [55].
remaining anchored against the cell cortex, whereas the Ninein itself is thought to promote a more robust micro-
other centrosome has greater mobility throughout the cell. tubule lattice—and anchor the centrosome at the minus end
In these systems, spindle orientation is established by the [56,57]. In the epidermis, Ninein is associated with the centro-
location of the migratory centrosome [44—46]. If this occurred somes in basal cells, where it may promote microtubule
in the epidermis, it would obligatorily force the spindle into a nucleation as well. However, Ninein, along with centrosomal
perpendicular orientation, because centrosomes of basal cells components Lisl, Clip170 and Ndel1, relocalizes from cen-
are apically positioned throughout interphase. However, this trosomes to the desmosomes in stratified layers, where it
is not the case. As shown by immunostaining and by tracking stabilizes desmosome-associated acentrosomal cortical micro-