2. Functional roles of synaptic plasticity

(f) Molecules of plasticity The idea that alterations in the strength of connections between
A major area of research over the past decade has been to neurons could be the basis of learning and memory has a long
identify the signalling cascades that are activated by history, extending back at least to Ramon y Cajal and arguably


earlier. Cajal himself referred to the idea in his Croonian Lec- Tonegawa eft al. [23] take to the field in the exciting new ter- | 4 |

ture to the Royal Society in 1894 [19]. There are numerous ritory of false memory. It has long been known that memory is
reasons for favouring a synaptic mechanism of storage, not not always veridical and that people may, under certain cir- a
the least being the greater storage potential of such a mechan- cumstances, believe that something happened in the past s
ism compared with cell-wide changes in excitability or even when in fact it did not. This is an interesting test case of the a
local changes in dendritic integration. However, all of these synaptic plasticity and memory idea as the ability of multiple © 2
and yet other mechanisms are candidates for information stor- synaptic changes to ‘mimic’ a memory would satisfy an Ss
age in the nervous system. Their role has to be decided by the important prediction of the hypothesis. The Tonegawa group : &
evidence—and_ this requires experimental techniques that goes on to describe how they have used optogenetics in con- =
couple what we know about the molecular mechanisms junction with context fear conditioning to train animals to ‘S$
(Part I) with behavioural studies. behave as afraid in a neutral situation in which nothing unto- rc
Morris and co-workers [20] provide a summary of what ward has happened. Their paper describes how the intellectual —
they call the ‘generic’ synaptic plasticity and memory context of their work is very much in the spirit of identify- — =
(SPM) hypothesis, and take us through some of the more ing and manipulating hippocampal engrams, as outlined by yy
recent tests of this idea with reference to criteria such as Mayford, although both approaches involve direct manipu- 2
detectability, anterograde alteration, retrograde alteration lation of cells rather than synapses. &
and mimicry. A key aspect of their argument is to remind Wang and co-workers [24] also provide a fresh perspective a