Strikingly, these GluN1*?°°? mice acquired the classic, the maze to obtain food rewards (see [12] for discussion). Impor-
open-field, spatial reference memory watermaze task as well tantly, the deficit on the watermaze discrimination task was
as controls [12]. In fact, on the transfer (probe) test at the end specific to the situation that arose when the beacons were ambig-
of watermaze training, the knockouts actually spent more uous (i.e. when two visually identical beacons were used). There
time searching in the training quadrant than the controls. The was no deficit when there were two visually distinct, and hence
inclusion of a hippocampal lesion group confirmed that our unambiguous, beacons.
watermaze paradigm was still hippocampus-dependent. Fur- Consistent with this account, we showed that the increased
thermore, the fact that the GluN14?°°4! mice appeared to number of choice errors in the GluN1“°°“! mice specifically
outperform the controls during the transfer tests, often seen reflected their performance on trials when they were started
as the gold-standard measure of watermaze performance, from a position at the edge of the pool which was in close proxi-
rules out the possibility that the lack of a deficit was simply mity to the decoy (S—) beacon. We therefore argued that this
due to the task not being sensitive enough. Thus, these data was not a problem with memory acquisition or encoding but
suggested that hippocampal NMDARs are not in fact required rather with behavioural inhibition. In this study, we have
for forming long-term, associative spatial memories. now tested this hypothesis further by training mice on the
However, the GluN14°°™! mice were impaired when the spatial discrimination watermaze task but with all trials start-
platform was subsequently moved to the opposite quadrant ing from a location equidistant between the two beacons.
of the pool during spatial reversal testing. They were also sub- Both control and GluN1*?°“! mice acquired this version of
stantially impaired at acquiring the spatial reference memory the task successfully, and at an equivalent rate. However,
component of the radial maze task, during which mice have GluN1°°°! mice were subsequently impaired on test trials
to learn to discriminate between arms that always contain that started from close to the decoy beacon, and that were
food rewards and arms that are never baited. Thus, hippocam- conducted post-acquisition, consistent with our hypothesis.
pal NMDARs clearly still play an important role in aspects GluN1°°°! mice were also impaired during reversal of the
of spatial memory performance, just not necessarily in the spatial discrimination task.

formation of associative, long-term spatial memories. This