
Figure 4. Postsynaptic and presynaptic mechanisms of chronic pain in the cortex. Excitatory synaptic transmission (left). Action potentials from the thalamic projection
fibres trigger release of vesicles containing glutamate. Fast excitatory transmission is mediated by glutamate in the ACC. EPSCs are mediated by AMPA receptors, while
small percentages of EPSCs are mediated by kainate receptors. Peripheral inflammatory or nerve injuries lead to presynaptic and postsynaptic changes within ACC synapses
(right). At postsynaptic sites, the insertion of additional AMPA receptors and NMDA GluN2B (NR2B) receptors into active synapses significantly enhance synaptic responses
to presynaptic stimulation. Similar to ACC LTP (figure 3), AC1-dependent PKA and CREB pathways are probably important for triggering and maintaining postsynaptic
potentiation. In addition to postsynaptic potentiation, presynaptic enhancement of glutamate release also takes place after peripheral injury. Possible presynaptic activity of
ACT is critical for presynaptic potentiation. The exact mechanism for injury triggering presynaptic enhancement remains to be elicited in future studies. Enhanced
excitability of neurons in the ACC may also affect spinal nociceptive transmission by activating descending facilitatory system.

synaptic changes in the brain slices of animals with chronic rectification of AMPA-receptor-mediated transmission in the
pain will provide us opportunities to study the basic mechan- ACC between control and nerve-ligated mice is different [52].
isms of chronic pain. In fact, both postsynaptic and presynaptic These results demonstrate that AMPA receptor in ACC neur-
changes are reported in the brain slices of animals with ons has an inward rectification property in neuropathic pain.
inflammatory or neuropathic pain. Furthermore, in addition Similar rectification of the AMPA-receptor-mediated responses
to changes in glutamate AMPA receptors, NMDA GluN2B in ACC neurons of rats has been reported after peripheral
receptors are also found to undergo LTP. inflammation with hindpaw CFA injection.

Biochemical and anatomic evidence further support the
involvement of postsynaptic AMPA receptors [55]. The mem-

(a) AMPA receptors brane AMPA GluA1 receptors are significantly increased,
To detect possible changes in synaptic transmission within whereas GluA2/3 receptors are not significantly affected. Such
the ACC after nerve injury, AMPA-receptor-mediated EPSCs increases are dependent on PKA phosphorylation of GluR1
in pyramidal neurons in the layer I/II of the ACC were receptors. Recent electronic microscope data further support