leftward shift of the input-output curves. In addition, the After nerve injury or inflammation, cortical NMDA GluN2B


receptors are significantly enhanced [50,59]. Furthermore, the design and chemical screening, we have identified a lead can-

upregulation of NMDA GluN2B receptors in the ACC or insular didate AC1 inhibitor, NBO01, which is relatively selective for
cortex contributes to inflammation- or nerve-injury-related ACI over all other AC isoforms. Using a variety of behaviour-
persistent pain [50] (figure 4). In the case of persistent inflam- al tests and toxicity studies, we have found that NB001, when
mation, the expression of NMDA GluN2B receptors in the administered intraperitoneally or orally, has an analgesic
ACC is upregulated, thereby increasing the GluN2B compo- effect in animal models of neuropathic pain, without any
nent in NMDA-mediated responses [60]. Consistently, apparent side effects [29]. These findings show that AC1
microinjection into the ACC or systemic administration of could be a productive therapeutic target for neuropathic
GluN2B receptor selective antagonists inhibits behavioural pain and chronic inflammatory pain. Considering the fact
responses to peripheral inflammation. Recent studies in the that many signalling molecules that are important for ACC
insular cortex reveal that nerve injury also triggers the upregu- LTP overlap with those for hippocampal LTP, it is important
lation of NMDA GluN2B receptors [59]. Thus, the central to note that AC1 is unique in playing essential roles in differ-
NMDA GluN2B receptor is a potential drug target for control- ent forms of ACC LTP but not in hippocampal LTP. Future
ling chronic pain [58,61,62]. investigations of LTP mechanisms in these two regions may

provide new drug targets for treating chronic pain with less
cognitive side effects.

In addition to producing analgesic effects by inhibiting the
upregulation of AMPA receptors in chronic pain conditions,
our recent studies found that AC1 activity is also critical for