humans, despite the fact that they were first discovered in the evolved for one purpose only. They are often co-opted for
cat and then studied in detail in the monkey [14,15]. other purposes as well; that is, they are exapted to serve
One reason for the opposition of some neuropsychologists additional functions. Thus, the brain networks that are involved
to accept the existence of mirror neurons in humans is probably in sensorimotor transformation can be recruited to support
due to the fact that the mirror mechanism was discovered when additional functions such as action understanding and imitation.
it was not completely clear whether damage to the areas The key role of epigenetic events in driving neuronal devel-
endowed with this mechanism determines deficits in under- opment has recently been emphasized [26]. These epigenetic
standing others’ actions (for evidence for the causative role of events might facilitate and stabilize, in the course of phylogeny,
mirror neurons in action understanding, see [12,16]). Typically, sensorimotor mechanisms involved in the coding of others’
the opposite series of events occurs, that is experimental and/ actions (i.e. mirror neurons). The markers of this gene expression
or clinical studies indicate that a certain cortical region is can consistently emerge in each generation, when infants face
involved in a particular function (e.g. occipital cortex in specific and predictable environmental conditions [28], thus
vision) and then single neuron recordings in animals reveal leading to long-lasting changes in the phenotype. In fact, in all
the mechanism underlying this function. individuals of our species, infants experience the vision of
The second reason is that the motor system has been their own hand and benefit from universal forms of face-
traditionally considered not to be involved in cognitive func- to-face interactions with the caregiver. These behavioural
tions [17]. Its role was thought to be limited to the control events affect those brain mechanisms (including the mirror
and production of movements. The discovery of mirror mechanism) that have been referred as to experience-expectant,
neurons as well as of other motor neurons involved in cogni- which actively ‘seek out’ specific environmental inputs. If the
tion, such as neurons coding peripersonal space or neurons elements of this ‘expectable’ environment are either lacking, or
transforming object affordances into potential motor acts else markedly disturbed, then the immature nervous system is
(canonical neurons), radically changed this view. Yet, as likely to be profoundly affected, thus requiring alternative strat-
often occurs in science, there was some resistance to changing egies for rewiring the networks. According to the epigenetic
consolidated points of view. hypothesis, new emergent neuronal responses and the related
An exciting and not fully explored field is the origin of mirror epigenetic mechanisms yielded some advantages for the organ-