time (s) time (s)

Figure 3. (a) Experimenter’s displacement curves averaged over trials of each subject’s experiment. The vertical line indicates the movement onset defined as
displacement exceeding 0.9 cm. (b,c) Over-trial averaged isometric force and EMG normalized by their mean for each subject. One line is displayed per subject.
(d) Group-level (n = 9) time-frequency map for coherence, colour-coded as a function of frequency from —2 to 3s with respect to the onset of experimenter’s
movement. The statistically significant (p < 0.05) time-frequency cluster of increased and decreased coherence value is outlined with a thin black line. (e) Similar
visualization for the relative MEG power.

the original association of the rolandic mu rhythm to for foot versus hand muscle contractions, the source areas
immobility [27]. Elegant further support for this status quo showed clear somatotopical order in the M1 cortex, with
hypothesis was obtained from a repetitive TMS study where the maximum always in the contralateral hemisphere [7].
stimulation of the M1 cortex at 20 Hz, boosting 20 Hz oscil- This finding of course does not rule out the CMC in other cor-
lations in M1, slowed down movements [28]. A recent review tical regions, and in fact intracranial recordings have shown
on the functional role of beta-band oscillations also concluded CMC, for example, in the pre-supplementary motor area
that motor-cortex beta rhythms signal status quo [29]. (pre-SMA) and SMA proper [36,37]. However, we would
After a median-nerve stimulus, which modulates rolandic like to emphasize that MEG-EMG coherence, as recorded
rhythms, the levels of M1 beta-band oscillations and CMC in this study, is largely blind to SMA and predominantly
(when the subject is keeping isometric contraction at least reflects M1 activity.
part of the time) covary closely [30]. Moreover, the M1 beta Some of us [30,38] have previously advocated CMC as
level and CMC are similarly related to the performance in a reflecting a mainly efferent flow of motor commands to the
motor task, again implying a close connection [31]. periphery. This view has been based on consistent findings

about the cortical signals leading the muscular activity by
about 20 ms to distal upper limb muscles and by about
