Although all the studies reviewed so far show that high attention is a necessary condition for awareness, attention >
perceptual load reduces the level of perceptual awareness, and perceptual awareness are selective only in conditions of &
and as such are open to both interpretations, in load theory high perceptual load. The evidence we discuss includes the | &
the effects of perceptual load should not be confined to effects of load on the level of distractor intrusions, neuro- oo
awareness. The competition for limited-capacity perceptual imaging reports showing extensive modulations of the neural $
and neural representation resources should not be restricted response to ignored stimuli throughout visual cortex (includ- |S
to just conscious representations. ing primary cortex, subcortical pathways, early response &
To address directly the effects of perceptual load on components, such as C1 and responses to stimuli that remain = &
unconscious processing, Bahrami et al. [82] manipulated unconscious) as well as behavioural reports of ‘load-induced
perceptual load in an RSVP task presented at fixation and blindness’. These behavioural reports were found in various
measured V1 responses to stimuli that were rendered effec- tasks measuring awareness, and a measure of the effects of
tively invisible with the continuous flash suppression (CFS) load on the CRF suggests that perceptual load effects can be
method [83]. Despite the fact that the stimuli remained invis- equivalent to a reduction in the effective contrast of a stimulus.
ible under both load conditions, V1 responses to these Thus, the effects of load-induced blindness could be explained
invisible gratings were significantly reduced with higher per- in terms of reduced neural sensitivity to contrast, which appear
ceptual load in the task. Bahrami et al. [84] have also analogous to load dimming the light. The results converged
demonstrated that high perceptual load reduces orientation across the different paradigms, some of which used a single
adaptation for orientation stimuli that were again suppressed task and assessed the effects of load on irrelevant processing
from conscious awareness with the CFS method. (as was the case for the distractor and imaging paradigms, as
Previous attempts to investigate whether unconscious well as the traditional inattentional blindness tasks), while
processing of orientation depends on attention lead to discre- others (e.g. those using direct measures of awareness reports)
pant results; for example, a manipulation of spatial attention used a dual-task design and assessed the effects of load on
was found to either reduce [85] or have no effect on [86] task-relevant processing. Thus, the effects of perceptual
orientation adaptation for stimuli rendered unconscious load on information processing apply across the board and
during adaption. These inconsistencies underscore the impor- the convergence across very different paradigms rules out