state of dynamic flux, being modified according to changing term process which has to be mediated by neural processes
motives, goals, emotional fluctuations as well as sensory stimu- able to manifest themselves with an extremely short latency.
lation, thereby being even more dynamic and constantly The types of synaptic and general structural plasticity
modified than is the case with other algorithmic strategies. involved in more long-term reorganizations of algorithmic
If relevant to the current situation of the individual, the strategies cannot mediate such a situational process.

perceptual algorithmic modules of the highest level will be
integrated into the SAS. Once integrated in this network, a
perceptual algorithmic module will be able to influence the

behaviour of the individual. 9. Training of conscious experience

The integration of a perceptual algorithmic module into the In blindsight, the fact that visual information is typically not
SAS can take numerous forms. Any level of integration allows used spontaneously but can only become a factor in the behav-
the perceptual algorithmic module to influence the ongoing ioural control when the subject is prompted or given very
and planned behaviour of the individual. However, only more specific instructions (e.g. [8,11]), appears to indicate that in
elaborate integration and extensive connections to various these cases, the relevant perceptual algorithmic modules can
other elements within the SAS allow the perceptual algorithmic only become integrated into the SAS when an external instruc-
module in question to influence the conscious awareness of the tion has modified the SAS to be receptive to such an integration.
person. In other words, whether the information associated with Normally, a perceptual algorithmic module of the highest
a perceptual algorithmic module will be consciously available is level will become integrated into the SAS, and thereby
determined by the degree and pattern of connectivity between, become available to the control of behaviour, without any
on the one hand, the perceptual algorithmic module and, on the deliberate effort from the individual. That is, provided what
other hand, other components of the SAS. is represented by the algorithmic module in question is rele-
