In Newfoundland, the cod collapse directly affected 40000 recently been identified as general indicators that a system is
people (ca 7% of the population), leading to substantial econ- losing resilience and is approaching a regime shift (e.g.
omic disruption [35]. However, with the demise of cod, [4,44]). Related potential leading indicators include wider
fisheries for the former prey of cod, especially shrimp, crab swings in dynamics of key ecosystem variables, spatial
and lobster greatly expanded [36]. Combined, these new correlation, slower return rates after perturbation and shift of
invertebrate fisheries now exceed the maximum value ever variance towards lower frequencies [45-48]. A variety of para-
achieved from cod [35]. Clearly, the human system adapted metric and non-parametric statistical methods have been
to this regime shift, and now the desired state of the ecosystem developed to measure and test these indicators, though most
is less obvious. Different ecosystem states and associated man- of this work has focused on modelled data or lake systems.
agement options will have costs and benefits that vary among However, empirical applications of early detection of
sectors. Thus, the ultimate objectives of EBM may be as much abrupt shifts in real ecosystems are still limited [49-51]. The
about politics as they are about science. Nonetheless, despite basic rationale behind early warning indicators is based
the complexities and uncertainty that regime shifts bring to on the fact that the recovery of a system to equilibrium after
goal-setting processes, clearly articulating the desired state of a perturbation becomes slower close to a transition. This
the ecosystem is paramount. phenomenon is known as ‘critical slowing down’ [52] and
A related complication in goal-setting emerges when the causes the variance and autocorrelation in the fluctuations of
goal of management is to avoid crossing a tipping point a system to increase prior to a regime shift. These indicators
from one ecosystem state to another. In this case, management can be used to detect abrupt shifts across an array of ecosys-
may require substantial initial expenditures in exchange for tems and types of transitions [48], but they require long time
future benefits associated with not crossing the tipping series of high resolution. However, ecological monitoring data-
point. Communities often have difficulty incurring costs to sets are typically short and lack detailed information on spatial
avoid future problems, no matter how dire they may be. distribution patterns of key organisms; and, therefore, the
Thus, understanding the drivers and pressures underlying practical use of any of the proposed early warning indicators
regime shifts is critical to informing early scoping processes. for risk analysis may be problematic.
