

Figure 3. A Soviet mother ship. The Soviet vessel Vostok, ‘Bocrox’ (IMO 6915805) built in 1971, with homeports in Odessa and Vladivostok, was the largest of all
mother ships ever constructed at the time. She measured 225 m in length and had a capacity to produce 150 000 cans and to freeze 200 tons of fish per day. The
vessel contained a movie theatre and swimming pool [39]. She was scrapped around 2002 [40]. Photo: Gena Anfimov.

(resource driven) control, but recent analyses also highlight the by the Soviet Union, can contribute to an understanding of
importance of fishing or top-down control [20]. potential cascading effects from such removal and their
For instance, re-analysis of the well-documented (and associations with regime shifts. The regions where Soviet
presumably climate driven) North Pacific regime shifts [48] fishing may have been especially important includes the
illustrate, for the first time, that fishing was indeed an impor- Baltic and Black Seas, where the consequences of such cas-
tant contributing factor for this shift [34]. Regime shifts are, cading effects have been well established in the context of
in fact, the consequence of a combination of different drivers regime shifts (see references in the electronic supplementary
[10], and ecosystems differ substantially in their resilience material, table S2).
to fishing, for example depending on species richness and Accuracy of data is an important challenge when analysing
temperature [20]. regime shifts. We do not know to what extent changes in fish-
Soviet fishing was global and highly synchronized. Fishing ing activities (e.g. temporal and spatial patterns of catches,
activities were coordinated through a system of FYP, which species harvested) by different nations may have influenced
enabled centrally placed decision makers to define clear pro- the collection and availability of data subsequently used in
duction targets for marine resource extraction. Although we regime shift analysis. Fisheries-dependent data have also
were unable to obtain the detailed fisheries goals in historical been part of several of the original regime shift analyses,
FYPs, the close association between several examples of dra- which may bias the results. The important role of Soviet fishing
matic expansions of distant water fishing with changes in in marine ecosystems worldwide specifically illustrates the
such plans, suggests a well-developed capacity for centralized importance of accurate catch statistics. There are arguments
control of global expansion. to suggest that there were incentives for both the over reporting