more labile, occurring within a trial rather than across trials. rodent HD cell system. We hypothesized that cue averaging
This shorter term plasticity would happen on top of an initia- is critically dependent on plastic remapping of visual infor-
lized w? profile. A future modelling direction would be to mation onto the HD cell system. For a subset of HD cells, this
explicitly simulate the development of the w* weight profile plasticity results in a shift in preferred firing directions and pre-
in a novel environment. This would, in essence, encapsulate vents visual information from dominating cue conflicts, with
the concept of salience without, as in the current model, the shifts in cell preferred directions being dependent on the size
need for an explicit parameter: only stable visual cues would of disparity between idiothetic and visual information sources.
form ordered w” connectivity, and thus act as landmarks. We also suggested that the initial remapping for a subset of
Interestingly, landmark stability appears to be a mechan- cells during cue conflict may be inherited by other cells in the
ism by which the HD cell system is able to differentiate layer during subsequent movement and path integration.
between distal and proximal visual landmark cues [30-32]. Finally, we demonstrated how the influence of the visual land-
This distal—proximal distinction has been successfully mod- mark could be weakened by reducing its salience. This may
elled, and demonstrated to depend on the fact that distal well help to explain such phenomena as weakening of land-
cues maintain a stable relationship with idiothetic infor- mark stimulus control after disorientation, and the separation
mation as the agent explores an environment but proximal of distal and proximal landmarks based on visual motion
cues do not [33]. These findings could be explained by our cues. More generally, our results provide a mechanism for
conception of salience. However, we note that such changes reliability-weighted cue averaging that may pertain to other
in salience are not limited to landmark stability, and indeed neural systems in addition to the HD system.
References
1. Taube JS, Muller RU, Ranck Jr JB. 1990 Head- freely moving rats. |. Description and quantitative 2. Taube JS, Muller RU, Ranck Jr JB. 1990 Head-

direction cells recorded from the postsubiculum in analysis. J. Neurosci. 10, 420-435. direction cells recorded from the postsubiculum in


10.