triangular grid as the rat forages in a square arena (path shown in black,
spikes superimposed), adapted from [2]. (b) The grid scales (spacing between
neighbouring firing peaks) of the grid cells in each of five rats are clustered
around discrete values, adapted from [2]. (c) The orientations of the grid-like
firing patterns in each module were also significantly clustered, in all five rats.
Grid orientations are shown for rat 217 for the small (black), medium (light
grey) and large (dark grey) grids, adapted from [2]. (d) Differences in the
orientations of grids are greater between modules than within modules,
but are still significantly clustered between modules (compared with the uni-
form distribution between 0° and 30° expected for independent modules),
adapted from [3] with permission. (Online version in colour.)

scale increases by a fixed factor, producing a geometric series could be detected (and potentially corrected) by the fact
of scales, with scale factors reported in the range between 1.3 that they would correspond to sudden large changes in the
and 1.7 [2,3]. However, given the high variability of grid corresponding place cell representation of location.
scales within each animal and the difficulty in concurrently Recent experiments have shown that the spatial scale of
observing neighbouring grid modules [3], it is not clear grid cell firing patterns increases whenever the rat is put
whether this geometric arrangement is precise or just a into a novel environment [13]. Note that this phenomenon
rough approximation. contrasts with the view that grid cells provide a fixed
The firing of grid cells within a single module represents metric for space (e.g. [1]). It also appears to reflect a different
the location of the animal within each repeating cell of the mechanism than the parametric response of grid firing pat-
grid firing pattern, but does not distinguish between the cor- terns to spatial deformation of the environment [2]. When a
responding locations in different cells of the firing pattern. familiar environment is changed in shape and size, the
The precision of this representation depends on the level of grids show a partial change in spatial scale, most probably
noise in neural firing, the shape of the spatial distribution reflecting associations to environmental sensory information,