infrequent but very large decoding ambiguity errors, which again these errors account for 0.32% of the trials, but their


mean square size was 2500 cm”, while the size of the errors in range of this system is considerably larger than this value, as 6 |

the remaining trials was effectively unchanged at 0.76 cm?. suggested by Fiete ef al. [8].
The geometric ratio 2 coding scheme in particular suffers These initial simulations demonstrate several points. The a
from a large number of decoding ambiguity errors on presence of two types of error is clearly shown: precision s
0.86% of trials, indicating the inefficacy of integer scale errors which are common but relatively small in magnitude a
ratios (figure 2). The geometric ratio ./2 scheme also exhibits and ambiguity errors which are infrequent but potentially © 2
a disproportionate number of ambiguity errors when com- very large. The small decoding errors resulting from precision Ss
pared with the similarly scaled 1.4 and 1.5 schemes—this errors are reduced further in grid systems with more small- Ss
appears to reflect the fact that under the ./2 scheme alternate scale grid modules and also in systems with more cells per =
grid modules follow a geometric progression with ratio 2. module. Although ambiguity errors are infrequent, typically ‘S
Again the grid system with 100 cells per module does not gen- occurring in less than 1% of decodes, their large size was = ‘©
erate ambiguity errors. Decoding error for the same grid shown to disproportionally degrade the system’s performance. | =>
systems is shown without the infrequent, but very large, Ambiguity errors were found to be more prevalent in systems © =
decoding ambiguity errors in figure 3f. As with figure 3c, this with fewer cells per module (20 versus 100) as well as in the yy
shows that the remaining (precision) errors increase with larger environment (18 versus 1m) where their magnitude 2
increasing scale ratio, as would be expected from the concomi- was also increased. We did not see any specific advantage for &
tant increases in the breadths of tuning of the grid firing fields the co-prime system over a similarly scaled geometric system. a
in all but the smallest scale module. However, the geometric system following a ratio of 2 between w
The performance of configurations of grid modules with a modules performed poorly owing to a disproportionate |
co-prime sequence of scales (ie. a 2:3:5: 7:11:13:17:19 number of ambiguity errors on the 18m track—to a lesser S&S
ratio of scales, starting from 25 cm and ending at 237.5 cm) extent this was also true for the ratio /2 system. 3