
Figure 4. Expansion of a grid system is an optimal response to spatial uncertainty. (2) Mean squared decoding error on an 18 m track in grid systems subjected to
varying expansion, under low uncertainty (s.d. 2 cm; solid line) and higher uncertainty (s.d. 6 cm; dashed line). For each level of uncertainty, there is an optimal
expansion factor that minimizes decoding error, and grid scale expansions smaller or larger than this will result in greater errors. (b) The mean optimal expansion
factor is greater for higher levels of uncertainty; this relationship appears linear. (c) Mean squared decoding error for baseline (solid line) and optimally expanded
(dashed line) grid systems, and for performance at chance (dotted line). Labels indicate mean optimal expansion. (d), (e) and (f) show simulations in a two-
dimensional 1 m? environment and are equivalent to (a), (b) and (c), respectively. Error bars are the s.e.m. of 10 runs of the simulation per set of conditions,
each consisting of 1000 decodes of random locations.

Figure 4a shows the decoding error for the grid system, pattern. In fact, the true optimum is likely to be even smaller
for two levels of uncertainty, as a function of the grid scale than that observed here. Our estimate was limited by the
expansion factor in the range 0.125—7. For both levels of range examined, and expansion factors smaller than 0.125
uncertainty, small expansion factors lead to large decoding were not examined. However, the fact that these shrunken
errors, reflecting the occurrence of decoding ambiguity grids can code location with so little error is further evidence
errors caused by spatial uncertainty (for this grid system of the power of grid systems to encode unique locations over
and environment, Poisson firing alone does not cause ambi- ranges much larger than their scales.
guity errors, or at least does so only extremely rarely, In summary, using simulations of one- and two-dimen-
owing to population coding; see §3a). Equally, for larger sional environments, we have modelled uncertainty as
expansion factors, the overall decoding error increases independent spatial noise affecting each grid module. Ele-
owing to decreasing precision. The scaling factor representing vated spatial uncertainty was shown to greatly increase the
the optimal trade-off between these two factors depends on occurrence of ambiguity errors, resulting in a pronounced
the level of uncertainty. In fact, the optimal expansion reduction in spatial coding accuracy. However, the deleteri-
factor, which minimizes decoding error in this situation, ous effect of spatial uncertainty is less pronounced in
increases linearly with the level of spatial uncertainty, as systems with larger scale grids. Hence, a uniform expansion
illustrated in figure 4b. The differences in decoding error gen- of all grid modules in a system was seen to mitigate the