Figure 4a shows the decoding error for the grid system, pattern. In fact, the true optimum is likely to be even smaller
for two levels of uncertainty, as a function of the grid scale than that observed here. Our estimate was limited by the
expansion factor in the range 0.125—7. For both levels of range examined, and expansion factors smaller than 0.125
uncertainty, small expansion factors lead to large decoding were not examined. However, the fact that these shrunken
errors, reflecting the occurrence of decoding ambiguity grids can code location with so little error is further evidence
errors caused by spatial uncertainty (for this grid system of the power of grid systems to encode unique locations over
and environment, Poisson firing alone does not cause ambi- ranges much larger than their scales.
guity errors, or at least does so only extremely rarely, In summary, using simulations of one- and two-dimen-
owing to population coding; see §3a). Equally, for larger sional environments, we have modelled uncertainty as
expansion factors, the overall decoding error increases independent spatial noise affecting each grid module. Ele-
owing to decreasing precision. The scaling factor representing vated spatial uncertainty was shown to greatly increase the
the optimal trade-off between these two factors depends on occurrence of ambiguity errors, resulting in a pronounced
the level of uncertainty. In fact, the optimal expansion reduction in spatial coding accuracy. However, the deleteri-
factor, which minimizes decoding error in this situation, ous effect of spatial uncertainty is less pronounced in
increases linearly with the level of spatial uncertainty, as systems with larger scale grids. Hence, a uniform expansion
illustrated in figure 4b. The differences in decoding error gen- of all grid modules in a system was seen to mitigate the
erated by the optimally expanded and initial (unexpanded) effect of spatial uncertainty, reducing the decoding errors
grid systems are shown in figure 4c. produced by ambiguity errors.

A similar pattern of results is generated by the grid system We interpret our results as suggesting that the grid
in a two-dimensional, 1m? environment (see figure 4d-f, expansion observed in vivo [2] could be an optimal response
where expansion factors ranging from 0.125 to 3.5 were to spatial uncertainty, which is assumed to produce independ-
assessed). Note that at low uncertainty (s.d. 2.5 cm) the optimal ent spatial error in the locations represented by different
grid expansion is 1.0 (i.e. comparable to ‘baseline’ scales grid modules. Expanding grid scales appears to reduce the
measured empirically), and with an increase in uncertainty effect of uncertainty, and optimal expansion represents a