genes into proteins—that is, DNA symbol sequences into existing cellular genetic system that was already capable of
amino acid meaning chains that spontaneously fold into the Darwinian evolution. Despite huge differences in scale, it is
three-dimensional molecular machinery of the cell, which a remarkable fact that the fundamental rate of meaning
includes enzymes, receptors, fantastical diffusion-driven mem- assembly in these two very differently scaled systems
brane rotors for generating ATP [19], force-producing strands is almost the same—a handful of amino acids per second, a
that use ATP and so on. Though this is confusingly called handful of word meanings per second. Despite this simi-
‘protein translation’ for historical reasons (based on the orig- larity, language-based cultural evolution is much faster
inal molecular biologists’ casual and faulty analogy with than biological evolution; lately, it has gotten so fast that bio-
Morse code!), it is now understood by molecular biologists logical evolution is effectively stationary by comparison
as the process by which DNA symbol strings are turned into (there is precious little ‘nature untouched by humans’ left).
phenotypic protein meanings. The faster speed of cultural, language-based evolution is lar-

The problem of the origin of such a system, however, is not gely attributable to the fact that cellular symbols strings
really an evolutionary problem in the usual Darwinian sense of (DNA and RNA) are comprehended (turned into protein
the word. If we shrink ourselves down to molecular size and meanings) but never produced from meanings; cells instead
look at what cells do, it becomes clearer that cells somehow have to wait a long time for favourable mutations to occur.
invented a new kind of molecular-level intentionality—a way Human language, by contrast, is a more dynamic, free-for-
to partly overcome the deterministic thermodynamic buffetings all, two-way system in which people willy-nilly inject
to which all matter is subject. This does not imply that cells mental-reaction-controlling speech symbol streams into each
create mysterious, irreducible holistic forces; in fact, we have a other’s brains [13]. The great difference in effective evolution-
deep mechanistic understanding of how they work. But it is ary velocity has made it difficult for transient language- and
a natural way of characterizing what goes on in cells that culturally-transmitted memes to be fixed in the much more
distinguishes it from the prebiotic chemical cycles in the slowly evolving genomes of long-lived humans. Despite
atmosphere, in volcanism, exposed mountain ridges and their great reach and elegant variation, humans are much
sedimentation in rivers, shores, down to the ocean floor, all more genetically similar to each other than even small local