cal foundation for these earlier hunches, but has also revealed in a human speech-like fashion.
a system that looks a good deal more like human-style, ‘left- There are intriguing clues about the evolution of fine vocal
hemisphere’ speech than like the call systems of other animals control from neuroanatomy of the avian song system. For
(including gibbons) [10,49-51], but also the call systems of example, motor output neurons in the forebrain (in the
songbirds themselves, who have retained their limited set of robust nucleus of the arcopallium, RA) of songbirds have
emotional calls alongside song. There is a powerful perennial gained direct access to motoneurons controlling the syrinx
tendency outside fields explicitly focused on evolutionary pro- vocalization musculature. Projections from RA bypass the
cesses to think of evolution in terms of a ‘Great Chain of Being’ brainstem pattern generator circuitry for calls through which
and to ignore the mosaic nature of evolution. Thus, birdsong all forebrain outputs must pass in non-song birds like ducks
has often been dismissed as a model of human language for [56,57] but also in squirrel monkeys [58,59] and macaque mon-
the reason that monkeys seem much smarter than some keys [60]. There is a striking parallel here to the evolution of
birds, or that monkey calls seem to have more semantic con- fine finger control in primates (but also finger control in rac-
tent than birdsong. In fact, the importance of birdsong in the coons, as a yet another reminder that evolution is a bush,
present context (only dimly glimpsed by Darwin) is exactly not a linear Great Chain of Being), where motor cortex neurons
the fact that a set of language-like features have evolved have also come to contact finger motoneurons directly, bypass-
in the absence of a semantic function. ing pattern generators for coordinated limb movement
Birdsong requires a significant learning period, during the situated in the spinal cord; hand motor cortex in cats, by con-
early parts of which the young bird is silent. If a bird is not trast, contacts primarily the spinal pattern generators, which
exposed to a tutor song within a certain early critical period, then have the only private access to motoneurons. The more
it will produce only a crude version of its species’ song. Nor- direct access afforded to the forebrain in the case of the song-
mally exposed young birds initially produce sounds called bird syrinx and the primate and raccoon hand presumably
subsong that resemble the progression of types of babbling underlies more complex, differentiated, learned control of
in baby humans—initially a broad range of sounds are pro- these effectors. Note that this means that the relevant forebrain
duced, followed by an unorganized recombination of motor output areas have essentially come to assume a lower
species-specific song fragments, and then finally, adult song. level in the motor control hierarchy, allowing the development