relatively simple form (in this case, a constant as a function of angle Ap, a fact that will probably allow their isolation, and hence removal. The remaining ‘diagonal’
terms contain the structural information of a single particle, as illustrated in (e—h). (e—h) Comparison of J(q, q’, Ad) curves obtained from a single particle per
snapshot, and from five randomly oriented particles per snapshot (appropriately divided by 5). These calculations were performed for the small protein chignolin
(PDB entry 1 UAO), but illustrate the general point that the sum of the diagonal terms in J (i.e. the intensity correlations from scattering by the same particles) are
essentially independent of the number of such particles per snapshot (to within a factor of N, the number of particles per snapshot, even if the particles are
randomly oriented). The radii q and q’ of the resolution rings are chosen randomly from our range (up to a maximum value gnax = 2770/5 AW, of 5 A resolution)
to demonstrate that the result is essentially independent of the precise values of g and q’. (Online version in colour.)

particles with a known high degree of symmetry, as for density sought. The linear relationship is specified by a
example the cases of icosahedral [21] or helical [22] viruses. matrix M, whose elements depend only on quantities calcul-
Another circumstance in which structure solution is possible able from a knowledge of the dark structure. What is more,
is when what is sought are small deviations from a known the difference densities sought will be calculated in the frame
‘dark’ structure of a protein in a time-resolved photoexcitation of reference of the known dark structure, a fact that enables
experiment. In this case, it is not necessary to assume a priori the difference electron density to be displayed on top of the
any symmetry of the difference structure. In an earlier paper, known dark structure using widely used crystallographic dis-
we demonstrated the structural information latent in the quan- play software such as Coor or CuimerA (although Coot,
tities B,(q, q’), which may be extracted by a systematic variation designed for crystallography, tends to repeat the specified
of the structural parameters, usually torsional angles, which by difference electron density periodically as if the structure
and large, specify the differences between the two sets of struc- were a crystal. Of course, in a crystal, the spatial relationship
tures. The problem with this method is that if the residue or of atoms in different unit cells may be relevant, though it is
small number of residues undergoing the structural change not relevant in single particle work).
on photoexcitation are unknown, the number of parameters This means that the matrix M (and its inverse) can be
which need to be optimized can be too large for even the calculated once and for all if a dark structure is known, and
best optimization methods available. from this a difference electron density corresponding to
Our present simulations suggest that it is possible to find each photoexcited structure investigated can be calculated