mode of speciation because divergence between geographically

Figure 1. Leslie D. Gottlieb (1936-2012). Photo taken in Ashland, Oregon
on 25 May 2009, one day before his 73rd birthday. Photo courtesy of Vera
Gottlieb. (Online version in colour.)

the population level [22], and as discussed by Barrett et al. [23] separated populations may occur through time without
in this issue, Gottlieb was one of the first to use enzyme electro- being retarded or prevented by gene flow and recombination.
phoresis to document lower genetic diversity in outcrossing By contrast, sympatric homoploid speciation has been the
compared with selfing plants [20,24—26]. most contentious mode of speciation, with arguments against
High-throughput DNA sequencing now makes it possible its occurrence centring on several issues. One problem is the
to examine a number of long-standing questions about the fac- challenge of documenting whether divergence occurred in sym-
tors that drive the transition to selfing and the consequences of patry, or divergence was in fact allopatric with subsequent
its evolution. In this issue, Barrett et al. [23] examine the efficacy secondary contact [33-35]. While it is difficult to rigorously fal-
of genomic data to test the two most frequently cited hypo- sify the allopatric—secondary contact hypothesis, evidence such
theses for the evolution of selfing. The first is the so-called as sister group relationship and high genetic similarity between
automatic selection hypothesis in which a selfer can contribute the species in question [20,36], especially when the species occur
outcross pollen as well as fertilize its own ovules (3 : 2 advan- together at one locality or ina restricted geographical area, com-
tage) [27,28]. The second major hypothesis for the evolution bine to argue strongly for in situ divergence [20,33,35]. Leslie
of selfing is reproductive assurance, which posits that selfing Gottlieb was very interested in sympatric speciation. One of
will be favoured when pollen vectors and/or compatible his earliest and most highly cited papers [20] contained ‘sympa-
mates are rare and limit seed production [29,30]. Inbreeding tric speciation’ in the title and focused on divergence within a
depression is recognized as the most important factor opposing local population.
the evolution of selfing. As indicated above, another major question regarding sym-
Barrett et al. [23] provide a test, first advanced by Schoen patric divergence is how it could occur in the face of gene flow