Within this wide Darwin-inspired populational frame- selection, Darwinian selection can be seen as one of several
work, one may, adapting a suggestion and a diagram of different types of attraction. Selection, we will argue, is not
Peter Godfrey-Smith’s [11], distinguish three more specific an alternative to attraction, but rather a special case of it.
nested explanatory frames (figure 1). First, a population is Thus, once we have made the argument that cultural evol-
evolutionary if the frequencies of types of different items at ution proceeds by way of attraction (§§2 and 3), we shall, by
any given time step are to a large extent explained as a func- way of illustration, introduce a simple formal tool, evolution-
tion of their frequencies at earlier time steps. Second, a ary causal matrices (ECMs), that highlights basic properties
population that renews itself through the reproduction of its that might make models of cultural evolution focused on
members is subjected to Darwinian selection if the items exhi- attraction a source of novel insights (§4). In introducing
bit variation, heritability and fitness differences. Finally, within ECMs, our goal is not to present such models in a well-
this selectional frame, a population is replicative if heritability developed form, but more modestly to suggest one way in
is secured by some form of replication. This is Darwinian selec- which it might be possible to do population-level thinking
tion in its clearest form, clearer in fact than it was to Darwin without commitment to a selectional framework. In sum, our
himself. The label ‘Darwinian’ is often used in the restricted objectives here are, first, to illustrate how, at a microscopic
sense of the selection frame, but in fact all four frames are Dar- level, cultural evolution proceeds by way of attraction, of
winian, in different ways. Population thinking is ‘Darwinian’ which selection is a special case; and, second, to sketch one
in a broad sense and so is applying it to evolution; a focus possible way in which it might be modelled in future research.

on selection in explaining evolution is ‘Darwinian’ in a stan-
dard sense; and explaining heritability and its role in
selection in terms of replicators is ‘Darwinian’ in a rationally

reconstructed sense. For each of these frames, modelling is 2. Culture as an epidemiological phenomenon

best done by ignoring or back-grounding processes outside A specific aspect of culture relevant not just to describing it but