other words, the outputs of individual memory, imitation and source of biases is human psychology. A third is specific his- &
communication processes are not copies but modifications of torical or environmental factors that cause individuals to a
the inputs. This is due in part to the imperfection of these interpret inputs in locally converging ways. If, for instance, w
mechanisms: some information is just lost in the process of one cultural trait is already present in a population, that can | ©
transmission. But more importantly, the mechanisms involved favour or hinder the propagation of other traits. Shamanism S
in cultural transmission (with rare exceptions such as rote and the consumption of hallucinogenic substances, for 3
learning) have, in various degrees and forms, both preserva- instance, even though they can exist independently of one = &
tive and constructive functions. This is quite unlike the another, are two mutually supportive cultural traits: shaman-
biological case, in which the proper function of the copying ism provides an institutional framework and a _ positive
mechanism (replication) is preservative alone. The good interpretation of hallucinogenic experiences thus reinforcing
news is that the constructive character of these mechanisms the practice. The hallucinations themselves provide evidence
of cultural propagation, rather than being a problem, is in of shamanistic powers thus reinforcing the institution.
fact, as we shall now explain, a key element in explaining cul- Another kind of example is provided by the adaptation of
tural stability [23]. As such, it is not something that we should techniques to a local environment. Fishermen, for instance,
always try to idealize away from, as models in the selectional use hooks adapted to catching the fish that are locally
frame necessarily do. Rather, we should look to incorporate it available. While trial and error no doubt plays a role in
into our models of cultural evolution. the evolution of hooks, constructive mental processes that

If all transmission processes were just preservative, an imaginatively anticipate the effects of hook design and size
occasional error of replication (akin to a mutation), such as and evaluate them are no less important. Such ‘guided vari-
the lecturer’s spelling error, would be preserved in further ations’, as the phenomenon is recognized and described [2],
errorless replications: it would become the model. If such are just one important type of constructive processes. When
copying errors were frequent, heritability might be too low constructive biases are shared throughout a population they
for selection to be effective, or for anything much to stabilize may, whatever the source of the bias, permit some types to
at all. In such circumstances, there are two factors that might reach a cultural level of distribution and stability, as in each