impacts, as in table 3, then the values in the diagonal can public version as an aspect of the mechanism of propagation
be interpreted as reproduction rate, and determine the evol- that can be ignored in the evolutionary model. To go this
ution of the system in the standard selectional way. way, one has to idealize away the facts that (i) tellings of a
Negligible values in the cells that are not on the diagonal tale are not identical to one another, (ii) mental versions are
can be interpreted as a mutation rate. Note that in such constructive syntheses of the interpretation of several tellings
cases equation (4.1) reduces to the discrete replicator rather than mere registrations and (iii) tellings are not public
dynamics, F(t +1) = Fa()lAa/ Diep Filtlii- production of an internally memorized text but construction
Quite generally, previous models of cultural evolution of a new public version on the basis of memorized infor-
have made the simplifying assumption that cultural items mation that is not in text form. For the reasons already
reproduce with rates of mutation that, although higher than argued in this paper, we think that interesting and important
those found in gene replication, are still low enough, given aspects not just of the mechanics of the propagation of folk-
selection pressures, to secure the dynamics of Darwinian tales but also of their evolutionary dynamics are missed
selection. We have argued that this assumption is not based when these facts are idealized away.
on empirical evidence that cultural items in general propagate Two other interesting cases are provided by pairs of items
through copying, as opposed to other forms of transmission that have exactly the same impact on themselves and on each
that involve a mix of preservative and constructive processes. other, as in tables 5 and 6.
It has nevertheless been a profitable idealization, given the In the case of table 5, in spite of equality of impact on A
subsequent successes of those models. Modelling within this and B, the type that happens to be more frequent is likely
idealization does not need and would likely not benefit from to drive out the other, as its cumulative negative impact on
a matrix format of the type we are suggesting. The point of the other type will be greater than the cumulative negative
introducing this case here is rather to show that Darwinian impact it suffers from, and more so at every step in time.
selection is a special case of this more general class of model, This distribution of causal powers yields an effect similar to
and not an alternative to them. We shall return to this point the conformity bias well described by Boyd & Richerson
in the summary. [2]. In the case of table 6, even if the frequency of C and D
We now consider various matrices of different formats that are initially quite different, the equilibrium point is one of