dence of a long-term occupation of Neanderthals in Europe of what is seen in present-day humans. The three Neanderthals


have longer runs of homozygosity than modern humans. The of the enrichment of amino acid changes in phenotypes in each 5 |

Altai individual has been reported to have an inbreeding coeffi- archaic lineage has been obtained [55]. The authors find that
cient of one-eighth—indicating that the parents were as closely genes involved in skeletal morphology may have changed a
related as half-siblings. Additionally, possible weaker consan- more on the Neanderthal and Denisova lineages than on the s
guinity signals are also present in the Vindija and El Sidrén preceding lineage from the common ancestor shared with a
material. Additional samples would be of paramount importance chimpanzees. These genetic changes could underlie some — 2:
to see whether the homozygosity tracks increase in length over skeletal Neandertal traits such as a reduced lordosis—the 5
time, and whether this correlates with the extinction process. Con- curvature of the lumbar and cervical spine; unfortunately, =
sidering the two individuals securely dated (approx. 44 000 years the fact that there is so far little morphological evidence from =
ago for Vindija 33.15 and approx. 49 000 years ago for El Sidron Denisovans hinders corroborating further associations “2
1253), the homozygosity tracks longer than 200 kb almost between genetic changes and morphological traits in the lin- ©
double in about 5000 years [55]. In addition, the genetic differen- eage specific to archaic humans. In the modern human — -s
tiation among individuals is larger among Neanderthals than lineage, there is an overrepresentation of some behavioural =
among present-day humans. This suggests that Neanderthals genes; intriguingly, some of these genes have been related to S
lived in small and relatively isolated populations, which probably traits such as ‘hyperactivity’ or ‘aggressive behaviour’ [55]. -
caused them to become more differentiated from each other Thus, most of our understanding of the biology of ancient 2
when compared with modern humans. humans will no longer be limited by the inaccessibility of the S
Furthermore, inferences from the high-coverage Nean- data but by our functional interpretation of modern human w
derthal and Denisovan genomes [31] suggest that some time genomes [57]. Moreover, regulatory changes have also been 2
after 0.5-1.0 million years ago their ancestral populations shown to be of importance in recent human evolution [58], =
decreased in size for hundreds of thousands of years. A low and thus not only coding variants should be taken into 3S