functional divergence of the coding regions and/or regulat- exists a strong link between environmental stress and/or fluc-
ory sequences of individual genes, the rewiring of the tuation and genome duplication, as currently supported by
regulatory network containing these individual components both present-day polyploids and palaeopolyploids at the
following WGD is of major importance [133,134]. A body K-Pg boundary. Could unreduced plant gamete production
of literature exists demonstrating that regulatory and devel- have increased polyploid formation at the K-Pg boundary?
opmental genes in particular are retained in excess after Alternatively, can the apparent prevalence of polyploids at
WGDs. This is most likely due to dosage-balance constraints, the K-Pg boundary be explained by their increased adapta-
ie. selection against loss of individual components of com- bility? Or do we observe the signature of another mechanism
pletely duplicated macromolecular complexes and/or and/or pattern that currently remains elusive, perhaps because
pathways, because this would disrupt their overall stoichi- both dating of such ancient events and making generalizations
ometry [135-139]. Retention of balance-sensitive duplicates about current polyploids remain particularly problematic? In
thus does not provide an immediate evolutionary advantage, any case, this polyploid heritage may afterwards have fuelled
but results from the fact that their loss would lead to an evolution of biological innovations and speciation in the context
immediate disadvantage. In this respect, the retained regula- of newly encountered conditions during the Cenozoic, through
tors may be considered an evolutionary spandrel [129,135], extensive network rewiring and functional diversification of
which might later on have facilitated the evolutionary inno- regulatory and developmental genes that were originally
vations and/or diversifications observed in many of these guarded against loss through mechanistic dosage-balance
post-WGD lineages [2,3,140]. Selection to maintain dosage constraints. Polyploids in some sense thus seem reminiscent
balance eventually relaxes over time allowing functional of the ‘hopeful monsters’ advocated by Goldschmidt [151]
divergence in the context of the environment [138,141], so (M. Freeling 2009, personal communication), at least at the
that part of the duplicated network can be rewired to execute genomic level, whereas their full potential at the phenotypic
novel functions [133]. However, the underlying mechanisms level can only be realized given time and the right conditions
are currently unclear. Gene duplication has been shown to [52]. It thus appears that the role of the environment in both
contribute to innovations even after prolonged periods polyploid establishment and their evolutionary success
between the original duplication event and the origin of constitutes an important aspect that merits further investigation.