4 typical of ancient DNA. As a result, ancient DNA studies must
Uk2 nd. 848 rely on alternative, shorter primer sets with both altered
*Data from [39]. primer-binding affinity and reduced taxonomic discriminating
DNA extractions performed using method A described in [39]. capacity. The third (V3) and sixth (V6) variable regions of the
‘DNA extractions performed using method A with silica modification 16S rRNA gene are sufficiently short for ancient DNA studies
described in [39]. (less than 200 bp) and have been successfully amplified from
ancient dental calculus [35,39]. Both primer sets, however,
variability in extraction efficiency has also been observed for may result in biased amplification of oral bacteria. For example,
modern microbiome samples, and minor changes in DNA in silico primer analysis using PrimerProspector [125] predicts
extraction techniques have been found to impact recovery poor V3 primer binding affinity to spirochaetes, while V6 pri-
of specific taxa [119], an issue yet to be fully explored in mers show poor binding affinity to TM7 phylum bacteria [39].
dental calculus studies. Bacterial frequency estimates from amplicon data are also com-
The amount of DNA preserved within some dental calcu- plicated by the fact that many bacterial species have multiple
lus samples is extraordinary, especially when compared copies of the 16S rRNA gene [126]. Finally, taxonomic dropout
with dentine (table 1). Comparing DNA yields from paired is also possible if DNA preservation is poor and amplification
dental calculus and dentine samples, Warinner et al. [39] efficiency is low. Each of these factors must be taken into
reported DNA yields as high as 437ng mg! from dental account when interpreting and comparing 16S rRNA amplicon
calculus compared with 0.6ngmg~' from dentine of the sequencing data.

same tooth, making dental calculus one of the richest
known sources of ancient biomolecules in the archaeological
record. However, DNA yields and downstream enzyme inhib-
ition varied substantially depending on the digestion buffer
and extraction method used, and attempts to remove inhibi-
tory molecules resulted in substantial DNA loss. In the