outside. (b) Genealogy of the six Yakut individuals found to belong to the same family. (Online version in colour.)

us to identify a brother-sister kinship between two adults and OttoA1 (LR = 37); KER1 and KUR2 (LR = 3.7 x 10°)), the
found in separate graves at the Atyyr Meite site in the Ver- parent—offspring relationship inferred by ML-RELATE was
khoyansk region. This comparison also revealed that these excluded by the low values of the LR along with the absence
two individuals, a male (AM1) and a female (AM2), might be of a common mtDNA sequence and/or by incompatibilities
the children of a male individual (KUR1) excavated on the with the dating of the graves.
Kureleekh site, 70 km away from the Atyyr Meite site (LR = To further understand these discrepancies, we decided to
3.6 x 10°). Y-STR typing showed moreover that AM1 had the expand the number of autosomal STR markers analysed and
same Y-haplotype as the alleged father KUR1, confirming to employ a newly commercialized kit (GlobalFiler, Life
the paternity between them (electronic supplementary Technologies) developed for use with challenging forensic
material, table S4). This relationship was also supported by casework samples. This 24 locus STR kit, tested on some of
the fact that all three graves were dated from the eighteenth the aforementioned samples, allowed us to exclude false
century, making relatedness possible. parent-offspring relationships deduced from ML-Rexats.
Through this approach, other parent— offspring links were As an example, the DNA profiles obtained for ST1-2 and
revealed. One of those was between a male individual (OulA) the LEP1 male individual revealed exclusions at two loci
and a child about 10 years old (OrtA; LR = 2.95 x 10°), both (D2S441 and D22S1045), those obtained for SeTou and
buried in Central Yakutia. Another was between an adult OttoA1 showed exclusion at the SE33 locus, whereas those
female (MYR1) and a subadult male (KOU; LR = 4.33 x established for KER1 and KUR2 showed exclusion at two
10%), both unearthed in the Verkhoyansk region. Full-sibling loci (SE33 and D1S1656; electronic supplementary material,
relationships were also found. One between the male adult table S2). In each case, this additional genetic information
LEP3 and the female adult LEP2 (LR=6.8 x 10°): both reduced the LR values for a parent-offspring relationship
graves were 300 m away from each other, and the individuals to zero.
shared a common mtDNA sequence. This new kit was also used to verify the accuracy of the
In some cases, however, pairwise comparison revealed kinships previously determined, namely the parent-off-