Caribbean groups could not be significantly differentiated ancient Caribbean groups, including our LCG sample, and = =
from native Colombians inhabiting the Amazon area (Fs; = the extant populations of Mesoamerica. This observation =
0.016) [42], and they were only slightly differentiated from the underscores the low amount of gene flow between both -
Amazonian and Colombian populations (Fsr = 0.079 and regions during the ceramic periods. However, it should be 2
0.064, respectively) [43,44]. The PCA analysis, based on the hap- noted that two rare mitochondrial haplotypes (Ht-04 and S
logroup frequencies, confirmed the affinity of the LCG group Ht-06) were shared between the LCG group and a few w
with some South American groups (such as the Apalai, Gua- native individuals from Mexico and Honduras (Garifunas)  °
hibo or Arawak), especially owing to the high percentages of [13]. The Garifunas, or ‘Black Caribs’, are thought to have = &
C1 haplogroup (electronic supplementary material, figure S3). arisen from an admixture of West African slaves who survived 3S

the wreck of two British ships carrying slaves to the West —
Indies and indigenous people from the Lesser Antilles (specifi-
cally from the St Vincent Islands) [12,13]. The fact that this

4. Discussion specific haplotype was shared between ancient LCG and
Despite intense interest in the evolutionary history of indigenous Garifuna individuals supports both the historical accounts
Caribbean populations, to date, only two aDNA studies had been and the genetic affinities between the Late Ceramic groups
conducted on populations of the Caribbean region, and notably, from the Guadeloupe archipelago and St Vincent Island.
only in the Greater Antilles [16,17]. This situation has been Three of the 11 mitochondrial sequences characterized in our
partly owing to the environmental conditions of the Caribbean LCG group have not been described before (Ht-02, Ht-03 and
region, which are not favourable to DNA preservation—a fact Ht-10). Of course, we cannot exclude the possibility that the scar-
that is highlighted by the low amplification efficiency observed city of data available in the literature is responsible for the low
in our analyses. However, our study also revealed a clear corre- number of shared haplotypes. However, the current distribution
lation between DNA preservation and micro-environmental of genetic sequences observed for the LCG group is consistent
conditions, since a statistically higher PCRs success rate was with the major changes to the Caribbean gene pool that occurred