C1 haplogroup (electronic supplementary material, figure S3). arisen from an admixture of West African slaves who survived 3S

the wreck of two British ships carrying slaves to the West —
Indies and indigenous people from the Lesser Antilles (specifi-
cally from the St Vincent Islands) [12,13]. The fact that this

4. Discussion specific haplotype was shared between ancient LCG and
Despite intense interest in the evolutionary history of indigenous Garifuna individuals supports both the historical accounts
Caribbean populations, to date, only two aDNA studies had been and the genetic affinities between the Late Ceramic groups
conducted on populations of the Caribbean region, and notably, from the Guadeloupe archipelago and St Vincent Island.
only in the Greater Antilles [16,17]. This situation has been Three of the 11 mitochondrial sequences characterized in our
partly owing to the environmental conditions of the Caribbean LCG group have not been described before (Ht-02, Ht-03 and
region, which are not favourable to DNA preservation—a fact Ht-10). Of course, we cannot exclude the possibility that the scar-
that is highlighted by the low amplification efficiency observed city of data available in the literature is responsible for the low
in our analyses. However, our study also revealed a clear corre- number of shared haplotypes. However, the current distribution
lation between DNA preservation and micro-environmental of genetic sequences observed for the LCG group is consistent
conditions, since a statistically higher PCRs success rate was with the major changes to the Caribbean gene pool that occurred
observed for samples originating from cavities (in Marie-Galante following colonization and slavery. It is well known that the
and La Désirade), than for samples obtained from outdoor sites. indigenous populations, who represented the initial workforce
Despite the difficulties encountered dealing with these Caribbean of the European colonizers, were drastically and rapidly reduced
human remains, we report, to our knowledge, the first palaeoge- by war, disease, emigration and slavery [2,11,14,15]. Important
netic data from the Lesser Antilles associated with the late phase native groups were displaced following the arrival of the Span-
of the Late Ceramic Age (AD 1200-1600). ish in Greater Antilles, which resulted in many Tainos finding
The mitochondrial gene pool of the LCG was characterized refuge in the Lesser Antilles [46], and following the importation
by the presence of three Amerindian mitochondrial hap- of many Amerindian slaves from the Lesser Antilles as well as