Musical beat and meter periodicities are perceived from sponding to the perceived beat and meter is dampened
sounds, whether or not these sounds are actually periodic. when playing the rhythmic patterns too fast or too slow,
Indeed, they can be induced not only by isochronous such as to move the tempo away from the ecological musical
pulses (as with a metronome) but also by complex rhythmic tempo range.
structures [1]. Hence, as described by music theorists, the Taken together, these observations can be interpreted as
beat is not itself a stimulus property, although it is usually evidence for a process of selective enhancement of the neural
induced by a rhythmic stimulus [1,12—16,38—40]. In fact, response at beat and meter frequencies, or selective beat- and
many frequency and phase combinations are available in a meter-related neural entrainment, related to the perceived beat
musical piece and could be selected by individuals as their and meter induced by complex rhythms. Moreover, they pro-
own perceived beat, within a given culture [5,41]. vide evidence for resonance frequencies shaping beat and meter
On the basis of this observation, we recorded the EEG neural entrainment in correspondence with resonance fre-
while human participants listened to rhythmic patterns. quencies related to the perception of beat and meter (ie.
These patterns consist of short sounds alternating with musical tempo). In addition, the fact that the frequency-
silences (i.e. acoustic sequences that are not strictly isochro- tagging approach allows us to compare the input and the
nous), in contrast to the sound of figure 1 (figure 2) [39]. output spectra with one another makes it a well-suited
That is, the envelope spectrum of these patterns does not con- approach to provide insight to the quality of the sound trans-
tain only one frequency, as in the sound of figure 1, but it duction to the cortex. More specifically, this comparison
contains multiple frequencies within the specific frequency should allow us to evaluate the input-output transformation
range for beat and meter perception (figure 2). Commonly possibly related to perceptual aspects of the sound inputs
found in Western music, these rhythmic patterns are expected [43], such as the perception of beat and meter. Importantly,
to induce, at least to some extent, a spontaneous perception of this can be made in the absence of an overt behavioural
beat and meter, even if these rhythms are not strictly periodic measure, so that it is not contaminated by decisional or move-
in reality [40]. ment-related bias. Because it does not require an explicit overt
In the EEG spectrum, these rhythmic stimuli elicit mul- behaviour, the approach can be used similarly in typical
