(a) Pauses and speech planning [84,90,92,93] and not just at the boundary. Thus, the differen-
At boundaries, acoustic segments and articulatory gestures tial account of the lengthening and pausing phenomena put
become longer (i.e. phrase-final and phrase-initial lengthen- forth by Ferreira [88,91] might be too strong. Nevertheless,
ing), and strong prosodic boundaries can contain pauses. the idea that a boundary can be understood as divided into
Pauses are of particular interest because they can inform different ‘cognitive’ parts is intriguing.
us about the cognitive function of prosodic boundaries in Related to the question of the cognitive function of proso-
speech production, specifically about the speech planning dic boundaries is the distinction between prosodic boundaries
processes. In what follows, we review work on pauses in and disfluent pauses. Some cases are clear-cut (for example,
speech planning and continue with an examination of how pauses in read, highly practiced speech, are typically prosodic
recent work on articulation during pauses has the potential boundaries; similarly, pauses containing uh, um, are clearly
to illuminate the process of speech planning and the distinc- disfluencies). A disfluency should not count as a boundary
tion between prosodic boundaries and other types of pauses. as it is an indicator of a breakdown in the planning or pro-
Boundaries mark linguistic organizational units or ‘con- duction process. However, the fact that planning also takes
stituents’ for both listeners and speakers. Listeners can use place at boundaries, and that not every disfluent pause con-
prosodic boundaries in sentence disambiguation (e.g. tains uh or um, makes boundaries and disfluencies often
[31,75-80], for an overview, see [81]). In terms of the speaker, difficult to distinguish. The question arises then whether
starting with work by Goldman Eisler (see [24] for a sum- there are articulatory correlates of the different processes
mary), it has been argued that speakers plan speech at taking place at boundaries. These aspects of pauses cannot
prosodic boundaries. Thus, pause duration and sentence be distinguished using acoustic data only (see also [88] on
initiation times increase when the upcoming chunk of this point), as any articulatory behaviour indicative of these
speech is syntactically more complex [27,82], prosodically differences in the functions of the pauses will be too minute
more complex [29,30,83]), or when the upcoming chunk to observe in the acoustic signal. In order to learn more
of speech is longer in terms of number of syllables [28— about the correlates of planning, a better understanding of

30,82,84,85]. Cooper & Paccia-Cooper [86] examined both articulation during prosodic boundaries is needed.