little or no pigment, but contains more argenteum or more guanin than that of the
upper. Now the peritoneum is of small extent compared with the whole of the lower
side, and it can scarcely be maintained that the appearance of its argenteum from the
exterior is of any use or advantage to the Fish, while the pigmentation of the peri-
toneum of the upper side adds nothing at all to the external appearance of the upper
rside. Fig. 8, Plate 55, shows the appearance of the peritoneum of the ovarian pouch
b of the upper side in the Pleuronectes microcephalus, a network of black chromato-
phores resting on a granular deposit of granules of guanin ; no “coloured” pigment
was present. In the corresponding portion of the lower side there were two or three
> minute black chromatophores in the same area. This difference can only be explained
“8 as the effect of light falling on the upper side of the Fish, and not on the lower.
| 4  Wehave written of Flat Fishes in general as having no pigment on the lower sides,
& but the subject is still further complicated by the fact that in certain species there is
r normally some pigment on the lower side. We have already referred to the frequent
occurrence of dorsal and ventral spots on the lower side of the Turbot and Brill; but
E Mr. Hour has kindly brought to our notice the fact that in normal specimens of the
Witch or Pole Dab, Pleuronectes cynoglossus, the lower side is not white but grey.
. He sent us four specimens of this species, and we found that the superficial layer of
§ the skin, outside the scales, contained a layer of closely crowded iridocytes, and large
-& radiate black chromatophores uniformly distributed over the whole surface, but not
very close together. There were, however, no coloured chromatophores, no lipochrome
was present, although on the upper side orange chromatophores were present as
bi usual, The internal layer of the skin on the lower side contained neither argenteum
nor chromatophores. In this species the colour of the upper side is not so deep as in
the Plaice, Flounder, or Turbot, and both upper and lower sides are more pigmented