vides a useful model for both accurate coordination and for marily in response to large perturbations. Their findings
deficits in beat-tracking. suggest that some period adaptation is possible, although
Listeners’ adaptation to temporal fluctuations in the with significantly less sensitivity than in the control group.
sequences with which they coordinated their tapping differed Future work may test whether phase adaptation and period
with the type of perturbation. Evidence from a control group adaptation parameters show equivalent deficits in a larger
replicated findings that people quickly adjust to phase pertur- sample of beat-deaf cases.
bations, but adjustment to period perturbations is slower The two beat-deaf individuals showed important distinc-
[16,18]. We documented two beat-deaf individuals’ adaptation tions in their beat-tracking abilities. Whereas Mathieu’s
abilities in response to phase and period perturbations, failures of adaptation in response to perturbations indicated
suggesting a broader deficit than one specific to phase or abnormal relaxation time, Marjorie exhibited deficits both
period adaptation. Importantly, their responses, like those of in relaxation time and in intrinsic oscillator frequency. Her
the control group, were anticipatory, preceding the stimulus adaptation patterns were characterized by high-frequency
beat. Also important is the fact that the beat-deaf cases showed oscillations that lasted several seconds, distinct from the
greater variance than control participants in the presence adaptation functions of control participants and Mathieu.
of a regular auditory metronome, suggesting that prediction Measures of intrinsic frequency have been shown to influence
tendencies alone cannot account for the specific deficit. synchronization behaviours in both humans [29] and animals
Listeners’ adaptation to temporal perturbations also dif- [11,12]. The different deficits shown by beat-deaf cases also
fered with the size or amount of perturbation; listeners provide independent support for the harmonic oscillator
exhibited greater adaptation to larger perturbations (15% of model; neither parameter alone could account for the deficits,
the base IOI) and little adaptation to the smallest (3%) pertur- suggesting that beat deafness is a spectrum of temporal coordi-
bations. Large ef al. [16] reported similar findings for six nation disorder. Consistent with this view, Mathieu is able to
(control) participants, for the same range of perturbations. identify a regular beat in simple auditory stimuli but displayed
Other studies, which focused on expert tappers chosen for difficulty in tracking the beat in more complex musical stimuli
their ability to synchronize with low variability [28], have [8]. Also consistent with this view, a range of phase adaptation
reported greater adaptation in response to smaller (2%) and period adaptation parameters have been reported for