in turn, is essential for cell migration. Cells lacking Golgi- = WY
(c) Functions of Golgi-nucleated microtubules derived MTs migrate more slowly in wound-healing R
In contrast to the effect on Golgi morphology and positioning assays in spite of proper pericentrosomal positionioning of ee
induced by MT depolymerization or dynein-activity inhib- the GA and coordinated reorientation of both the centro- |
ition, blocking of MT nucleation at the GA does not some and the GA towards the leading edge [36,66]. This &
result in Golgi dispersal. In partially CLASPs- or AKAP450- clearly identifies Golgi-nucleated MTs as important players Ss
depleted cells, a circular GA surrounding the centrosome is in regulating directional migration, probably by establishing ©
observed [5,66]. FRAP experiments revealed, however, that preferential secretion paths towards the leading edge in
the GA is highly fragmented, suggesting that Golgi elements migrating cells. Consistently, directional but not general
are unable to form a continuous Golgi ribbon under these secretion is affected under these conditions. It should be
conditions [36,73]. These results suggested that centrosomal noted that disrupting Golgi—centrosome association has a
MTs might support central Golgi positioning but would be stronger negative effect on cell polarity and migration than
insufficient for proper Golgi ribbon formation and _ that, simply inhibiting MT nucleation [36]. As a matter of fact,
conversely, Golgi-based MTs might be dispensable for trans- dislocation of the polarity axis induced by the expression
location of membrane elements from the cell periphery of the N-terminus of AKAP450 results not only in a reduced
towards the cell centre but required for their fusion into a migration rate but also in an aberrant migration pattern
continuous structure. Experimental support for this hypoth- with cells moving in the wrong direction [36]. This is in
esis was provided by Kaverina and colleagues and further agreement with previous evidence that motile cells require
confirmed by us [36,73]. During nocodazole recovery, the a polarized Golgi complex in proximity to the centrosome
subset of Golgi-nucleated MTs was first required for the for proper directional post-Golgi trafficking and directional
assembly of Golgi fragments into larger elements at the cell cell migration [77].
periphery. Then, as a second step, centrosomal MTs provided In conclusion, coupling of centrosome- and Golgi-derived
the tracks along which the GA elements were transported to MT activities ensures the correct formation and location of the
the cell centre. Once present in close proximity to each other, Golgi ribbon, which is vital for cellular functions that require
these large elements tangentially connected to form a single polarized secretion and directional migration.