ribbon integrity. This mechanism is surely operating in into the two daughter cells. To prepare for proper segre-
Golgi re-assembly that occurs every time a cell exits mitosis gation, the ribbon first unlinks into individual stacks, which
[73,74] (see ยง3d). However, the scenario in mitosis appears further undergo unstacking and vesiculation. These mitotic
to be more complicated. In many cell types, GA reassembly Golgi membranes are then partitioned between the two
during cytokinesis occurs at two different subcellular daughter cells where they reassemble in a single Golgi
locations: one Golgi ribbon is formed around the centrosome, ribbon after cytokinesis [78]. Disassembly of the Golgi com-
and the other one is situated next to the midbody and flanks plex during mitosis is not a conserved phenomenon among
the intracellular bridge between the two daughter cells. These eukaryotes, suggesting that it is not strictly required to
two ribbons then coalesce at the cell centre and eventually ensure Golgi inheritance. Why vertebrate cells have
form a single unit. To understand how the complex and developed such a sophisticated strategy is not yet fully
evolving geometry of MT network during telophase and understood. It has been proposed that Golgi stack unlinking
cytokinesis contributes to the formation of the Golgi ribbon in late G2 is a necessary step for cells to enter into mitosis rather
at the mitotic exit deserves careful analysis in future studies. than only a passive consequence of mitosis. As a matter of fact,
Fusion of Golgi stacks into a polarized Golgi ribbon is a experimentally induced block of Golgi unlinking in G2 delays
complex process that implies lateral linking, and subsequent entry into mitosis [79]. Since Golgi-nucleated MTs play a
fusion, of homotypic cisternae. It requires not only proper orien- critical role in the fusion of Golgi stacks into a single unit,
tation of polarized stacks but also precise recognition of cisternal one can safely assume that the machinery controlling this

identity. Golgi-nucleated MTs that grow tangential to stacks process is subjected to mitotic regulation. And indeed, this is


what has recently been demonstrated in a study by Maia et al. growing from cytoplasmic nucleating sites. More than 85% of

[74] addressing the question of the ability of Golgi membranes these MT regrowth foci were identified as Golgi elements
to nucleate MTs during the cell cycle. The MT nucleation that in fused myotubes not only surrounded nuclei but also a