
(e) Golgi nucleation in differentiated cells multiple dendrites. MT nucleation is essential for proper
Terminal differentiation of mammalian cells involves extensive formation and maintenance of both dendritic and axonal
changes in cell morphology and in subcellular architecture. The branches [86]. How the polarized MT array in neurons is gen-
best-studied examples include epithelial, muscle and neuronal erated is still an important open question. It has been
cells. A common feature of these cell types is that MTs are reor- proposed that MTs nucleated at the centrosomes are cleaved
ganized during differentiation into non-centrosomal complex and then transported to the proper compartment. Alterna-
arrays by mechanisms that are not yet well understood. tively, MTs might be severed in the periphery and serve as
Recently available data demostrate that Golgi-nucleated MTs scaffolds for nucleation/polymerization [86]. Recent studies
play a critical role in MT reorganization taking place during have shown, however, that the centrosome loses its function
both muscle and neuron differentiation [8,65]. as the major MT-organizing centre during neuronal develop-

Reorganization of cell architecture during skeletal muscle ment and that, in fact, acentrosomal nucleation occurs in
differentiation implicates complete and simultaneous remodel- neurons [7,87]. In neurons, the GA comprises Golgi stacks
ling of the centrosome, the MT network and the secretory located within the soma and Golgi elements termed Golgi
system. Such reorganization has been mainly studied in myo- outposts present along the dendrites, at dendritic branch
blasts induced to differentiate into multinucleated myotubes points and at the distal tips. Using time-lapse microscopy
in vitro. Myoblasts exhibit a classical MT network focused on and in vitro experiments, Ori-McKenney et al. [65] have
juxtanuclear centrosomes surrounded by the GA, whereas investigated the origin of MTs within the dendritic arbour
myotubes possess numerous MTs organized in parallel, with- of a specific type of neurons in Drosophila. They found that
out any apparent nucleation centres. First insights into the Golgi outposts can directly nucleate MTs through the den-
mechanisms underlying such a transition came from pioneer- dritic arbour. This acentrosomal MT nucleation requires
ing studies from Bornens’ group [81,82]. They showed that y-tubulin and the Drosophila homologue of AKAP450.
during myotube differentiation both the PCM and the GA Partially purified Golgi outposts containing both proteins
redistributed to the nuclear envelope where they formed peri- were able to nucleate MTs in in vitro assays. Most importantly,