reliabilities through estimates of default-likelihoods, that is, like- tion resulting from abrupt and intermittent model-based a
lihoods of external cues and action outcomes when the current constructs of new actors, when model-free RL adjustments of s
external contingencies presumably match no monitored strat- ongoing actors become unreliable, is optimal with forward infer- a
egies. The concepts of default-likelihood and absolute ential processes operating online and bearing upon a limited = 2
reliability generalize the notion of expected /unexpected uncer- number of counterfactual strategies. Ss
tainty proposed by Yu & Dayan [51] and provide the Newly created actors may be inferred as being initially S
computational foundations of the present theory. They may unreliable indicating that the environment is likely in a state =
be related to the psychological notions of metacognitive that was not previously observed. The prefrontal executive ‘S
processes and confidence judgements [52]. system then switches into an exploration period corresponding ‘©
Based on this computational framework, we identify three to hypothesis testing: this unreliable actor guides behaviour and _ =>
critical inferential capabilities associated with the development may be subsequently confirmed or rejected. Confirmation — =
of specific prefrontal regions. The OFC and ACC appearing in occurs when this actor become reliable before any counterfac- yy
rodents provides the ability to make factual, reactive reliability tual strategies. The ventral striatum is predicted to detect this 2
inferences; reliability inferences are based on action outcomes confirmation event yielding to the actor consolidation in &
and only bear upon the actor strategy guiding action and learn- long-term memory. Conversely, rejection occurs when a coun- a
ing external contingencies. The OFC is predicted to encode terfactual strategy become reliable before this actor. The LPC is Ps
strategies’ internal models predicting action outcomes and to predicted to retrieve this reliable counterfactual strategy to © ©
revise actor absolute reliability according to action outcomes. serve as actor. Critically, hypothesis testing prevents the &
Critically, the actor strategy learns actions through RL so that capacity-limited buffer from monitoring unnecessary strategies 3
the more outcomes are rewarding, the more the reliability emerging from long-term memory. Hypothesis testing, more-
reflects the predicted occurrence of these outcomes. The over, is a primitive form of backward inferences, because
ACC, by contrast, detects when the actor strategy becomes every decision to create new strategies may be subsequently
unreliable for triggering the creation of new actor strategies revised on the basis of subsequent information. Backward
from long-term memory. The LPC appearing in primates pro- inferences are actually critical in optimal adaptive systems
vides the additional ability to make factual, proactive inferences. operating in open-ended environments for dealing with the