In this paper, we describe some of the key cognitive systems dic system, because any correlating phenomenal experiences
believed to support future-oriented cognition while critically cannot be measured. To avoid entangling themselves in the
examining certain assumptions in the current debate. Review- question of subjectivity, they drew on Tulving’s earliest cri-
ing the research on future-oriented cognition in our closest terion for episodic memory, where the ability—in an
living relatives—the great apes—we question whether these integrated and flexible fashion—to remember information
cognitive skills are, in fact, exclusively human. Our aim, on the what, where and when relating to an event was the
through these examples, is to show that research into future- defining factor, unrelated to any consciousness. However,
oriented cognition in non-human animals must broaden this approach was criticized on the grounds that the capacity
beyond the current ill-founded dichotomies if we wish truly to remember what, where and when is neither necessary nor
to understand how cognition affects the future in various ways. sufficient for mental time travel [4]; moreover, one could, in

principle, use only the semantic system and remember
what, where and when as strictly factual information [18].

2. The episodic system This is one example of how the question of phenomenal
experience draws attention away from the central question
(a) Consciousness and mental time travel of how memories and future-oriented cognition work, turning
The theoretical roots of much of the contemporary cognitive- it instead into a dichotomous question about human unique-
foresight research lie in memory research. In 1972, Tulving [7] pro- ness (for similar ideas, see [19]). As a remedy, we wish to
posed a distinction between semantic and episodic memory, point out why the study of animal episodic systems should
where semantic memory is our database of knowledge about not (currently) be part of the study of animal consciousness.
the world. It does not register perceptible properties of inputs, Subjective experience is justly treated with caution in animal
but rather the cognitive referents of such inputs. Episodic cognition research for two main reasons. The first is the lack of a
memory, on the other hand, receives and stores information on detailed model for what, in computational or neurological
temporally structured episodes or events, along with the spatio- terms, constitutes subjective experience. We cannot as yet, in