
motor protein used for dendritic RNA transport. Furthermore, processes pre-miRs to mature miRNAs, is enriched at PSDs as
the pri-miRs are tightly associated with drosha and DGCR8, shown by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry of
the enzymes that process the pri-miR to small hairpin precur- mouse hippocampal neurons [29]. When isolated PSDs are
sors (pre-miRs). All of these components (pri-miRs, drosha examined, full-length dicer protein is present but in an enzymati-
and DGCR8) are enriched in purified synaptic fractions cally inactive state; incubation with calpain causes cleavage of
(synaptosomes and synaptoneurosomes) and isolated PSDs dicer into smaller fragments that have highly active RNAse III
[28] (figure 1). This is true both for intronic miRNAs (which activity [29]. When acute hippocampal slices are stimulated
reside within retained introns of pre-mRNAs) and intergenic with N-methyl-p-aspartate receptor (NMDA), specific dicer frag-
miRNAs (whose pri-miRs are freestanding long ncRNAs in ments are formed in a manner that depends upon calcium and
their own right). calpain activation [29]. The majority of neuronally expressed

In fact, the entire machinery for miRNA biogenesis can be miRNAs, along with the core component of the RNA-induced

localized to dendritic spines [29,30]. Dicer, the enzyme that silencing complex (RISC), Ago2, are expressed in synaptic


fractions [29,30]. miRNAs in dendrites appear to regulate If retained introns and pri-miRs are present within den-

mRNAs in much the same way as they do in the cell body, i.e. drites, then this raises the question of whether another
by binding to target mRNAs and exhibiting a negative influence function normally associated with the nucleus—RNA edit-
on their translation and/or stability [17-21]. ing—might also occur locally within dendrites. To my

A subset (approx. 15%) of miRNAs is significantly knowledge, no one has investigated that question, but that
enriched in synaptic fractions (up to approx. fivefold) com- would be worth exploring since ADARs often edit miRNA