and, in general, intronic hairpins tend to be species specific biological functions, but that they respond to contextual, non-
[134]. Sense—antisense gene pairs show relatively little conser- linear and interactive influences that make the output more
vation between mouse and man [135]. Repeat-derived than a simple function of the input. To give just one example,
transcripts such as BC1, BC200, G22 and Alu-related repeats a given miRNA may be inhibitory, ineffective or actually
show limited, lineage-specific expression across evolution. enhance translation of a target mRNA, depending on

The piRNAs also show little conservation from mouse to what other proteins bind nearby on the mRNA and what


post-transcriptional modifications they bear as a function of Entry of cytoplasmic siRNAs into the nucleus is necessary | 11 |

the cell cycle [141]. for a behavioural adaptation to occur in C. elegans [74]. As
The fact that ncRNAs do not appear to be essential for well, dicer fragments generated by synaptic activity bear a
neurotransmission is not necessarily a bad thing, and para- nuclear import sequences and are potentially translocated s
doxically, may be a clue to their importance. Separating the to the nucleus [29]. Conversely, miRNAs might potentially a
regulatory system from the nuts-and-bolts of the synapse route newly transcribed RNAs coming from the nucleus = 2
allows ncRNAs to evolve more freely. Synapses are not into specific synaptic destinations: in this scenario, miRNAs 3
simply describable as being in activated, resting or depressed that are locally produced near activated synapses could S
states, but are simultaneously regulated by ncRNAs which bind to, and thus preferentially trap, newly synthesized =
control their potential responses to new stimuli (a form of mRNAs that are transported down dendrites. This might ‘S
metaplasticity; see also [142,143]). keep them in close proximity to the previously activated ©
synapse, in a state of tonic inhibition, until a subsequent — >
stimulus de-represses the miRNA influence and allows local *
12. Long non-coding RNAs translation of the mRNA to occur [30]. 8
Given their number and diversity, long ncRNAs must >