of brain networks have been widely replicated in species ran- work should then be a designation reserved for networks
ging from C. elegans to Homo sapiens, at micro and macro defined by mapping the observed ability to carry out a
scales, and on the basis of a wide variety of experimental given task or neurophysiological function onto observed
data. It seems likely that they amount to robust new knowl- topological properties of anatomical or dynamical networks.
edge about brain network organization; certainly, there has In other words, genuine functional networks can be thought
been an impressive growth in the number of neuroscientific of as macrostates of either anatomical or dynamical ones. On
studies using graph theoretical techniques in the past 10 or the other hand, once nodes are endowed with their own
so years; and, naturally, a number of important questions dynamics, it is possible to distinguish between dynamics in
and issues have been raised by this ‘first wave’ of topological the network, i.e. node dynamics, and topological dynamics
studies of the connectome. on a network. The interdependence of these two dynamics
How does the topology of a brain network relate to its anatom- is a defining feature of adaptive networks such as the brain [22].
ical organization? In particular, how can the complex topology The phenomenology of possible interactions between the
of nervous systems be reconciled to the obvious fact that they various levels is extremely rich, particularly as one considers
are embedded in physical space and there is abundant prior the relative time scales over which anatomical, resting state
evidence to suggest that the wiring and metabolic costs and task-activated dynamical and functional networks can
of brain networks are controlled if not strictly minimized evolve. The relationship between resting state and task-acti-
[16-18]? Minimization of wiring cost is compatible with the vated dynamical networks can be seen as the consequence
spatial co-location of nodes in the same module and with of the fluctuation—dissipation theorem [23], a fundamental
the observation that topologically clustered nodes are often result of basic physics which establishes a general relation-
also close neighbours anatomically. But more integrative ship between the response of the system to small external
aspects of brain network topology such as the existence of perturbations, and the internal autocorrelation of fluctuations
connector hubs mediating long-distance inter-modular con- of the system in the absence of perturbation [24]. On the other
nections, or a rich club of densely interconnected but hand, the relationship between dynamical networks, both at
anatomically separated hub nodes, are less readily explained rest and during the execution of cognitive tasks, and anatom-
by minimization of wiring cost and associated metabolic ical networks seems of an altogether different nature. The