is the case of computers, the brain is a collection of hetero- in various ways using centrality metrics [6]. Centrality may
geneous parts where function can be traced back to the refer to a leading node of a brain region or to the main connector
computations carried out at well-defined locations and to between different regions [12], and can be quantified in terms
the transport of their output from one location to another. of local properties, e.g. the number (or weight) of connec-
At the system-level of investigation of standard non-invasive tions, or global properties, e.g. the number of shortest paths
neuroimaging techniques, modelling typically involves a connecting any pair of nodes crossing a given node. Corre-
small number of units. spondingly, various centrality measures, e.g. node degree,
The huge numbers of neurons (approx. 10'') and synapses betweenness [14] or eigenvector centrality [15], have been
(approx. 10'5) [8] suggest that the brain is better modelled as a proposed, each quantifying different ways in which some
complex system [9], capable of generating a vast repertoire of nodes of a network can be thought of as central.
macroscopic patterns of collective behaviour with distinctive Complex network theory allows going one step further and
temporal, spatial or functional structures. investigating general organizing principles at all scales, reflect-
While modelling macroscopic behaviour in terms of only ing the fact relevant aspects of functional brain activity, such as
a few degrees of freedom as in the former approach probably information storing, may be either local, or non-locally spread
represents a drastic reduction, the sheer number of interacting across widely separated units.
parts makes it unfeasible to study the brain’s macroscopic Ata global level, neither random nor regular lattices seem
functional properties by explicitly modelling each of its to constitute an adequate description of functional brain net-
degrees of freedom. Statistical mechanics provides a frame- works. Instead, it has been shown that these networks have
work for describing how these macroscopic patterns may small-world (SW) structure, indicating that any two vertices
result from the interactions of a multitude of microscopic in the network can be connected through just a few links
individual entities [10]. Macro- and microscopic scales are and, at the same time, that local connectivity is much denser
not absolute ones, but depend on the range of scales afforded than that of networks where connections are made at
by the experimental techniques used to observe brain activity, random [16]. Functional brain networks have also been
as well on the coarse-graining level used in data analysis. For reported to be scale-free [17,18], indicating a non-negligible
instance, microscopic entities could be single neurons or power-law probability p(k) of finding nodes with a high