(d) Broadening objectives

While complex network theory provides an impressively rich
set of tools to characterize brain functional activity, neuro-
scientists’ objectives go beyond the pure description level
and would benefit from tools that are able to address some
of their fundamental demands: classifying patients or exper-
imental conditions, understanding the aetiology of observed
connectivity patterns and modelling activity in as complete
a way as possible, to eventually be able not only to forecast
and control it, but also to steer it to desirable states.

thing, it would be useful to integrate the fact that the brain pos- (i) From comparison to classification and categorization
sesses qualitatively different nodes, be they neurons or entire If network properties genuinely describe functional brain
brain regions. For other basic concepts, e.g. that of distance, activity and its modulations under given conditions, e.g. cog-
neuroscience should promote alternative definitions, at least nitive tasks or neurological pathologies, then it should be
when considering a functional space isomorphic to the ana- possible to use them to discriminate various activity regimes
tomical one (as opposed to a phase space representation). associated with these conditions.
Likewise, community structure should be redefined in such a One principled way to overcome this limitation involves
way as to account for the possibility for a given neural assem- assessing what network properties optimize a given task, for
bly to pertain to different communities, possibly at different instance classifying experimental samples corresponding to
spatial and temporal scales. different experimental conditions. The amount of information
Network properties should reflect the fact that the brain is codified in each network can be approximated by the success
a complex adaptive system. This requires a clear understand- score achieved in a classification task, where a model is trained
ing of how functional networks respond to external stimuli at to identify subjects belonging to the two considered classes [93].