to circumvent the complexity of those approaches by using a Second, if the NN is made to operate in a slower collective

more phenomenological strategy, whose goal is to test regime (e.g. in the alpha band) the synchronization between
whether microscopic and mesoscopic descriptions of neur- the NMs is decreased (while still being significant), even
onal populations communicate with one another by using though the three oscillators are now closer in frequency.
synchronization as a proxy of effective communication. The synchronization between the NMs is mediated by
Even when the NN operates in a fast dynamical collective the locking between the NMs and the NN, which leads to
regime in the gamma range, a sufficiently large subpopu- an increase in the alpha band activity of the NN, as reflected
lation of neurons within that network is able to mediate the in figure 3. The fact that synchronization is maintained even
communication and subsequent synchronization between when the NN is operating in the alpha band (figure 4c,d)
two NMs that are described mesoscopically and operate at indicates that the intrinsic NN dynamics does not interfere
much lower frequencies. Frequency and phase locking arise notably in the communication between the NM populations.
even when the two NMs operate at very different frequen- Furthermore, the fact that synchronization improves slightly
cies (in the theta and alpha bands) and with very different when the NN is operating in gamma (as shown also
dynamical features (spike-like dynamics in one case and in figure 4c,d) shows that fast and slow scales interact to a cer-
quasi-harmonic dynamics in the other). Structural clustering tain extent in order to drive the synchronization. We interpret
within the NN diminishes the ability of the microscopic neur- this to be due to an increase in the precise timing of the firing
onal population to induce synchronization. The size of the that is associated with a faster neuronal rhythm. The results
subpopulation of neurons that directly coupled the two reported here point towards an alternative way to probe the
NMs must also be large enough to allow the intrinsically interaction of scales in the brain, by using synchroniza-
irregular neurons to reach a sufficiently strong collective tion between neuronal populations as a way of testing the
regime through which the two NMs can communicate. structural and functional conditions under which scale
Two main features indicate the non-trivial contribution of interaction occurs.
the microscopic NN in mediating the synchronization between
the mesoscopic models. First, the two mesoscopic populations Funding statement. This work was supported by the European Commis-