shown in figure 4. Cost-effectiveness is found to be most sensitive better spent on increasing IRS coverage (independent of the
to the average duration of host infectiousness by a factor of environmental conditions). Indeed, increasing IRS coverage
approximately five times greater than the next strongest determi- by 5% is likely to be highly cost-effective or cost-effective
nant. The range of recovery rates o in table 1 reflects ongoing even in low income countries, although this decreases at
uncertainty (and variability) in human immune response to higher temperatures (and greater temperature variability);
malaria infection, with parameters considered as part of the for example, when Ty = 25°C and T, =0.15°C, it is only
DSA ranging from the order of weeks to years (based on [69]). cost-effective in middle and high income countries, which
Another important finding is that, after host immunity, uncer- account for 19 of the 43 African countries with ongoing trans-
tainty in both the mosquito to host and, to a lesser extent, host mission. If logistical or other constraints do not allow an
to mosquito transmission probabilities can influence estimates increase in IRS by 5%, we find that increasing both IRS and
of cost-effectiveness with sufficient magnitude to affect policy LLIN coverage by 2.5% would, for the majority of affected
decisions in many low and middle income countries in Africa. African countries, represent a cost-effective alternative.
In fact, for the range of resistance emergence rates considered Finally, in the case of IRS and LLIN coverage at 10% and
here (albeit very uncertain [87]), uncertainty in these three quan- 25%, respectively, the steady decline in incidence means that
tities more significantly affects ICERs than resistance. Other further increases in IRS scale-up by 5% are not cost-effective
entomological parameters such as vector endophilicity and in low income countries and, in some climate regimes
anthropophily, plus economic parameters such as cost and (namely, as mean rainfall increases and variability in rainfall
benefit discounting rates, are found to be far less influential on and temperature decreases), may not even be cost-effective in
policy decisions based on cost-effectiveness. Repeating this lower-middle income economies. Scale-up of LLINs alone is
DSA for a wider range of climate scenarios shows that these rarely cost-effective for most African countries, particularly

results on the role of parameter uncertainty are independent of as mean temperature and temperature variability increase.


Table 3. Derived/secondary quantities used in model development.