sequent higher test tiers for PPPs use specific focal species to mortality and reproduction. These are obviously two key
and typically employ a range of refinement options tailored parameters that directly impact population dynamics and
towards realistic exposures for those species. Toxicity endpoints can be assessed to some extent in laboratory tests. However,
can also be refined. For example, phase-specific reproductive the current range of toxicity endpoints used for PPPs has
endpoints can be used to relate timing of exposure to that of been criticized as too limited for birds but overabundant
reproductive cycles in birds and mammals [50,51]. and too detailed for mammals; the consequence is that it is
While the general framework for assessing PPP risk may be often difficult to extrapolate realistically from the laboratory
applicable to pharmaceuticals, some of the refinements used to to the field [60]. If pharmaceuticals are indeed most likely
reduce exposure from worst case to more realistic values may to have subtle physiological, immunological, behavioural
not always be appropriate. Such refinements include (i) esti- and neurological effects in wild higher vertebrates, such
mating food intake rate for focal species based on allometric effects could have both direct and indirect impacts on long-
equations of daily energy expenditure (DEE) and water flux term survival and on behavioural phases of the reproductive
[52,53], (ii) bioaccumulation, and (iii) the fact that only a pro- cycle. Some or possibly many such effects may commonly go
portion of ingested food is contaminated. Some scavengers, undetected using the standardized PPP tests currently under-
for example, actively seek and feed communally on carcasses taken in artificially controlled conditions on laboratory-bred
and so it is possible that they predominantly feed on sick and species. There may well be a need to review likely effects
medicated animals. Hence refinement of risk based on an associated with the most prevalent classes of pharmaceuticals
assumption that only a proportion of ingested food is contami- released to the environment and to develop new toxicity end-
nated may not be appropriate. Scavengers also gorge at points that are both appropriate to detecting such effects and
carcasses and can eat more at one feed than would be predicted are relevant in terms of impacting populations. Any such devel-
just from estimates of intake based on DEE requirements [54]. opments would be equally likely to increase the robustness of
Reliance on such estimates may therefore underestimate risk assessments for PPPs and all other chemicals.

exposure. Scavengers may also be selective in terms of the tis-
sues they consume. Preferential feeding on stomach contents