trone) concluded that alfalfa growth was increased when and antiparasitics) when feeding at muladares (small carcass
irrigated with water containing lower oestrogen concentrations dumps) in Spain. There have been some studies that indicate
and suppressed when the water contained high concentrations the occurrence of various adverse effects on egg develop-
[62]. This suggests that the effects of oestrogens can and do ment, immunocompetence and disease prevalence, but all
cross between plants and animals, but no details were dis- relevant data regarding these Spanish carcass dumps have
cussed on the concentrations of oestrogens that resulted in now been retracted from publication. As such, the real picture
variable growth of the alfalfa, or on the amounts of affected in Spain specifically remains unclear. Further investigation of
alfalfa that were consumed by the cattle. the potential for exposure and effects of pharmaceuticals in

Several studies have now investigated risks to birds feed- vultures in Spain (a very important stronghold for vultures
ing on invertebrates exposed to STP effluent at trickling in Europe) and in Africa is merited. Studies in Spain are par-
filters. These have indicated that invertebrates living on and ticularly warranted given: (i) the 2013 approval of diclofenac
emerging from STP trickling filters have the potential to for veterinary use in that country [73], (ii) the fact that some
bioaccumulate/bioconcentrate certain pharmaceutical EDCs carcasses provided at muladares, managed feeding stations
[63,64]. Adult male starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) experimen- and at captive breeding and rehabilitation centres, are
tally exposed to environmentally relevant levels of various known to originate from intensive operations such as large
EDCs displayed altered immune function and changed pig rearing facilities where animals are heavily medica-
development that affected behaviours such as singing [65]; ted, and (iii) a concern that risk assessments seem poorly
reduced growth and depressed immunocompetence were developed for scavengers, as already highlighted in ยง3.
also observed in the nestlings [66]. Additional species of ver- Antiparasitics are also widely used on livestock making
tebrate wildlife likely to be exposed through the food web them, in effect, pharmaceuticals. Many, such as organophos-
include those that take insects on the wing (such as swallows phates, carbamates and pyrethroids, were developed as
(Hirundinidae), swifts (Apodidae) and bats (Chiroptera)). agrochemicals and so, unlike most pharmaceuticals, their
The population-level consequences of such exposure, and adverse effects in non-target wildlife are relatively well
the specific role played by synthetic pharmaceuticals as described. Antiparasitic applications of famphur, fenthion,