tool to prioritize and rank the ecotoxicological importance
of pharmaceuticals in a complex mixture.

clear mixture effects in acute daphnia tests, although each indi- independent action: synerg isms and
vidual component was present in a concentration below its . . . .
individual NOEC [41]. Eguchi et al. [51] demonstrated in a antagonisms In pharmaceutical mixtures
study with algae that trimethoprim shifts the concentration— Several studies have observed mixture toxicities that deviate
response curve of sulfamethoxazole and sulfadiazine by a from the conceptual expectations of CA and/or IA. For
factor of 4 to 5 towards higher toxicities, even if present only such patterns, the terms ‘synergism’ and ‘antagonism’ are fre-
at its NOEC. quently used. However, in 1995, Greco ef al. [52] listed
It is worth pointing out in the context of this low-dose dis- 13 different definitions of those terms, inconclusive and not
cussion that the application of CA certainly does not imply supporting each other. Additionally, special care has to be
that each and every pharmaceutical mixture is of ecotoxicolo- taken to account for the fact that CA and IA usually predict
gical relevance nor that every compound present is actually different mixture toxicities, and a mixture whose toxicity is

worth considering (figure 1). But, neither CA nor IA provide perfectly predictable by CA is hence ‘synergistic’ in relation


to IA, and vice versa. Explicitly specifying the frame of refer- inflexibility of the median effect principle matters least, the

ence against which a mixture is evaluated is hence critically combination effects could be approximated well, within a
important. Synergisms should also be differentiated from a factor of less than 2, for all mixtures.
potentiation, that is, the situation in which a pharmaceutical It is interesting to note that the observations on syner-
without biological activity if applied singly increases the gisms and antagonisms are often limited to a mere
effect of a second compound. phenomenological description of modelled and observed