effect, microglial cell-derived anti-inflammatory cytokines, metabotropic and ionotropic glutamate and y-aminobutyric
namely IL-4, IL-10, IL-13 and TGF-8 [70,86-88] act on acid (GABA) receptors, dopamine receptors, bradykinin
homeostasis restoration, and promote cell replacement and receptors and several types of purinoceptors (reviewed in
tissue repair mechanisms. It is not uncommon, however, for [16,95]). These receptors enable microglia to detect ongoing
the same cytokine to be assigned antagonistic roles as pro- neuronal activity. The importance of microglia—synapse
and anti-inflammatory. Such ambiguity arises from cytokine interactions is further substantiated by studies that demon-
interactions with other molecules and ECM elements present strate microglial cell release of signalling molecules that
in the injured area [68,76,89,90], which are critical factors for modulate synaptic plasticity. For example, the inhibitory neu-
determining whether the beneficial effects of their actions will rotransmitter glycine, detected in conditioned media (CM)
override their toxicity, leading to either neural protection and obtained from microglia cultures, is the putative mediator
homeostasis resumption or neural damage. of the facilitation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in Schaeffer
Cytokines have also been shown to play neurodevelopmen- collaterals via N-methy]l-p-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) acti-
tal roles. In fact, the classification of growth factors, including vation. NMDAR activation is evidenced by an increased
platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth CamKII immunoreactivity in CA1 neurons, upon stimula-
factor (EGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), insulin-like tion (25 Hz), and in the presence of microglia CM [20].
growth factors (IGF), nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophins LTP seems also to be dependent on FKN/CX3CR1 signalling.
(NT-3 and -4) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as In CX3CR1 knockout mice (CX3CR1™), the lack of the constitu-
cytokines [81] renders these molecules as the putative effectors tive ‘calming’ signalling pathway established between neurons
of several neurodevelopmental functions. For example, Ueno and microglia [82,95] triggers microglial activation, increasing
and colleagues have shown that microglial cells accumu- the levels of IL-18 via MAP kinase p38 activation, and also
late along callosal and subcerebral tracts, which project the levels of TNF-a. As a result of microglial activation,
from layer V cortical neurons (CTIP2* /SATB2*) at early post- CX3CR1'° mice exhibit deficiencies in both associative and
natal stages. Microglia-derived IGF1 acts as a specific trophic spatial memory, resulting from a reduction in LTP-mediated
source for layer V neurons, which express the receptor synaptic plasticity [22].
IGF1Ra. Remarkably, locally induced microglia depletion trig- In addition to modulating LTP, microglia have emerged