out all the studied time periods. Sexual dimorphism can be figure S6) nearly exclusively (17/18) carried the Y1 haplotype
eliminated, because no clear size groupings for molar teeth (the sole exception possessed the Y2 haplotype). The group
can be seen in the modern wild boar populations analysed 2L pigs with domestic tooth shape (n= 6) dating to these
here. All previous zooarchaeological research has established same periods (that yielded DNA results), however, possessed
the fundamental principle of size reduction from wild to a variety of haplotypes (1 = 5; E1-C, El-A, AS1, Y1 and Y2),
domestic forms [30-35] in early animal domesticates. In suggesting significant diversity likely bolstered by a history of
fact, the lack of intermediate sized S. scrofa in Europe has admixture with introduced domestic pigs.
been used as an argument for the direct introduction of dom- When placed in a more detailed cultural-temporal con-
estic pigs and the lack of involvement of indigenous text, we find that the earliest appearance of the Y1
European wild boar in the domestication process [4]. Given haplotype in our Romanian dataset dates to the Middle Neo-
the likelihood of gene flow between the introduced and lithic (Vadastra culture, directly dated to 5318-5206 cal BC/
native pig populations [12,13], however, we tested the 6260 + 34 BP) at the site of Magura—Buduiasca [38] and was
expectation that all large pigs were in fact wild boar. carried by group 1S domestic pigs. The earliest genotyped
First, we assumed that individuals in group 1S can be used group 2L specimen with a domestic tooth shape is from the
as a baseline reference for archaeological ‘domestic’ molar Middle Neolithic context of Magura—Buduiasca (directly
shape. Although we cannot exclude the possibility that this dated to 5307-5208 cal BC/6238 + 34 BP), and this specimen
group includes some hybrid or feral individuals, this group carried the European E1-C haplotype. Finally, the first
as a whole most likely represents a population that had been appearance of the European E1-A haplotype in both group
domesticated for several thousand years. To generate a base- 1S and 2L pigs occurred during the Bronze Age at the site
line for wild tooth shape, we grouped Mesolithic specimens of Rotbav (Wietenberg culture; 2000-1500 cal BC; electronic
(all of which were sampled from time periods prior to the intro- supplementary material, table S3). This haplotype then
duction of domestic pigs from the Near East) from Romania, became nearly ubiquitous in domestic pigs by 3900 BC, and
Switzerland [36] and France [37]. The inclusion of Mesolithic remains so to this day [10].
wild boar outside Romania (where our sample size was In all the analyses discussed above, each molar was
small) ensured that we maximized the shape variability associ- analysed separately. However, because 71 mandibles and max-