thousands of loci informative across time scales. The crayfish character models of diversification rates exist [90,91]. We =
phylogeny would benefit greatly from a study that targets envision using these models in conjunction with environ- =
one of these sources for loci to estimate and confirm the phylo- mental data layers to look at diversification and extinction -
genetic backbone and add support to the relationships within rates of taxa associated with certain types of habitat and natu- 2
and among genera. ral history characteristics. Analyses that combine ecology, S
morphology, geography and phylogeny can provide power- w
(C) Diversification rates and extinction ful correlative evidence with high extinction rates that are =
. . associated with particular characters. Ss
Recent advances in comparative methods have allowed S
researchers to estimate extinction from phylogenies [86], Acknowledgements. We thank the Royal Society and the bioGENESIS s
although some are sceptical [87]. Our diversification analyses working group for organizing and supporting the ‘Phylogeny, extinc-
show diversification rates were not constant through time tion risks and conservation’ workshop at the Royal Society. We are
(figure 3). In fact, the best-fit birth-death model for our data grateful to the George Washington University Colonial One high per-

formance computing cluster for providing analysis capacity for this
work. We thank Joseph Brown for his help with the synthesis ana-
lyses. We thank two anonymous reviewers and the associate editor

supports three different time-dependent divergence rates.
The timing of changes in diversification are fairly congruent

with the timing of the formation of the Antarctic Circumpolar for providing helpful comments to improve our manuscript.
Current and the formation of ice sheets [88] approximately Funding statement. This work was supported by the US NSF grant no.
20 Ma, while the most recent change in diversification rate DEB 13-01820.
References