publicly accessible [17]. The process of gap analysis and prep- ment policy realms). The consensus principle gives room to
aration of assessments should rely on scientific information implicitly negotiate issues quite outside the range of IPBES
which is gained independently from financial, strategic or as univocal results are required. Debates in plenary already
other interests. resemble some of the attitudes we have come to expect

from the CBD Conference of the Parties (COPs). This is
ironic (and regretful) given that IPBES is the de facto succes-

(0) Achieving legitimacy sor for the CBD’s policy—support function, the Subsidiary
One of the main reasons to establish IPBES was the promise Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice
of legitimacy as the MEA did not have a mandate from (SBSTTA) which had been considered too ‘political’ [19].
all countries. The IPBES plenary represents all member However, IPBES can provide the space and the means
countries, a fact that gives the appearance of institutional for relevant and effective science—policy debates, even
legitimacy. However, representation of the countries differs if these are happening not in plenaries but elsewhere.
and it is often difficult to ascertain what is being represented Three main commitments will have to be integrated in its
(e.g. trade interests, access to resources, etc.). While for further development: a commitment to support conceptual
example in Germany, the environmental ministry (BMUB) and practical plurality and resist one-size-fits-all approaches,
heads the delegation, in UK this is done by the department a commitment to learning and substantial transforma-
for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Brazil tions towards a science—policy—society interface (not just
is represented by the Ministry of External Relations and the incremental adjustments), and a commitment to expand par-
US by the State Department. The legitimacy of political insti- ticipation of stakeholders in a way that reflects global
tutions is dependent on the support and active involvement citizenship. This applies to the plenary but also to the scien-
of the people and similarly, the legitimacy of knowledge tific work underlying the assessments: the integration of
depends on knowledge producers and their audiences. different disciplines and perspectives (such as evosystems
As St Clair [18] has shown in her study of poverty and the [20], socio-ecological production landscapes and seascapes,