
studies were all performed in slices obtained from young another subpopulation of extrasynaptic NMDARs exists (but
rodents (P10—P22), at a time during development when see below) that can be activated by phasic, ‘ectopic’ release of
the switch from GluN2B- to GluN2A-subunit-containing glutamate from non-active zone sites. The main manifestation
NMDARs is still occurring at synapses [9]. For instance, Harris of such phasic activity of extrasynaptic NMDARs is slow
and Pettit found, as expected, that GluN2B-NMDARs disap- (decay time on the order of seconds), infrequent (approx.
pear from synapses throughout the first month of age, but 0.05 Hz) inward currents of large amplitude (hundreds of
regrettably carried out the comparison of synaptic versus extra- pA), generated in principal neurons of the CA1 region of the
synaptic composition in juvenile animals (P15) [26] and hippocampus [50,51,53] and in the superficial layers of the
concluded there was no difference in the GluN2B content. dorsal horn [52,61]. Such currents, termed slow inward cur-
Additionally, it is not known whether extrasynaptic NMDARs rents (SICs), persist in the absence of neuronal and/or
also undergo a developmental change of their subunit compo- synaptic activity [51] and are completely suppressed by glial
sition. Hence, because it has been mostly conducted in slices inhibitors [52]. Evidence points to the fact that such currents
from immature animals or in cultures, the study of NUDAR are caused by glutamate release from glia onto extrasynaptic
subunit composition at synaptic and extrasynaptic sites has, so NMDARs [33,41,50,62,63]. However, the exact pathway
far, essentially led to contradictory results and confusion. involved in this process is still under investigation. It has

Even when tackled in adult rodents, the situation does not been shown that SIC frequency and amplitude increase upon
seem to be any clearer. In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neur- activation of astrocytic G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs)
ons of adult rats, GluN2B-NMDARs were shown to be in the hippocampus [50,51], such as PAR] receptors [53]. Con-
absent at synapses, but could still be found at extrasynaptic comitantly, stimulating the PAR1 receptor on astrocytes was
locations [19]. However, the replacement of GluN2B- with recently shown to trigger calcium-dependent release of gluta-
GluN2A-NMDARs at synapses is not ubiquitous and com- mate through Bestl channels in the hippocampus [64-66].
plete, and GluN2B-NMDARs still represent a major portion Thus, SICs could be caused by astrocyte-derived glutamate
of synaptic NMDARs in many other regions of the adult central release through Best1 channels onto extrasynaptic NMDARs,