binations are hard to determine given the ethical and appear to play an important role in vascular remodelling
logistical problems of studying the site of placentation in during placentation. Murine trophoblast invades into the
early pregnancy in humans. The great disparity in placental decidua to a lesser degree than in humans and does not express
strategies in different species also means animal models are non-classical MHC, so there are significant differences com-
generally uninformative. Furthermore, KIR genes are only a pared to human trophoblast [30]. Although the major murine
feature of simian primates, but even in these species there NK receptors that recognize MHC are the Ly49 family of
are fundamental differences in placentation with interstitial receptors, they appear to function analogously to the human
trophoblast invasion only a feature of the great apes [11]. KIR. Mouse studies in which a single additional MHC mol-
A further major difficulty has been the lack of any reproduci- ecule H2-D* was introduced, showed impaired vascular
ble and reliable in vitro model systems to study human remodelling and reduced fetal growth compared with iden-
trophoblast function in vitro. Nonetheless, uNK cells can be tical mice lacking only H2-D® [43]. This MHC molecule binds
isolated and, despite their name, are poorly cytotoxic the inhibitory receptor Ly49A and can inhibit additional
[40,41]. The input NK cells receive from KIR is either activat- uNK subsets when present. Particularly notable was the fact
ing or inhibitory, and NK function is a result of integrating that reduced fetal growth was seen regardless of the parental
this information and responding accordingly. When uNK origin of the H2-D* molecule. These results confirm the idea
cells receive an overall activating signal in a woman with a that certain combinations of maternal NK receptors and
KIR B haplotype containing KIR2DS1, the output of soluble paternal (or maternal) MHC molecules can influence tropho-
mediators like chemokines and cytokines (e.g. GM-CSF) is blast invasion and vascular remodelling. In both human and
increased after co-culture with target cells bearing HLA-C2 murine pregnancies, excessive inhibition of NK cell function

molecules. This supernatant containing GM-CSF stimulates is associated with reduced fetal growth.


@ 0.4 —-— birthweight frequency
