cognitive structures adapted for other purposes. It is possible ent times [42]. As with a number of properties of spectral sound =
that music behaves similarly and is a cultural creation based processing, such timing capabilities of the auditory system -
on preexisting features of the brain. were likely adaptations for ASA, and musical structure has 2
Interestingly, while different musical systems use some- adapted to these preexisting adaptations rather than driving S
what different scales and have different tonal centres, their existence. w
certain intervals tend to be prominent across musical systems Another basic principle of musical composition is to lay 2
[113]. Recent work by Large and co-workers [114-116] shows down the basic beat in the lowest pitched (bass) instruments. =
that neural resonances in the auditory pathway induced by Recent research indicates that when two tones are presented 8
nonlinearities in the system give rise to the intervals promi- simultaneously in a repeating sequence, listeners are better at_  ‘S
nent across musical systems and that models of such detecting when the lower tone is occasionally presented
nonlinear oscillation easily learn properties of specific tonal 50 ms early (leaving the higher tone on time) compared
pitch spaces. Thus, the emergence of musical intervals may, with when the higher tone is presented 50 ms early (leaving
in fact, be a spandrel of basic properties of neural circuits. the lower tone on time) [82]. Furthermore, modelling work
One difficulty with this argument is that such nonlinear suggests that this low-voice superiority effect for time orig-
neural circuits are also present in other species, raising the inates in properties of the inner ear (see box 1) although the
question of why these species have not developed tonal effect is probably sharpened higher in the auditory system
music. Without further research, a definite answer is imposs- [118,119]. As there is no obvious adaptive reason for this
ible. However, it is possible that the potential for tonal pitch effect, it might simply be a non-adaptive consequence of
space perception is present in other species, but they lack the structure of the inner ear (spandrel). The important
other essential features such as sufficient memory capacity, point with respect to music is that music is composed to
a link between tonal pitch space and emotional meaning, a conform to this preexisting feature of the auditory system.
cultural means of sustaining such a complex system, or the As with tonal pitch space, aspects of musical rhythm
motor skills to produce music. Indeed, octave equivalence, appear to be specific to music (e.g. [8,120]). Language, for
like the perceptual distinction between consonance and disso- example, has temporal structure, but not the same require-
nance, has been found in monkeys, at least for simple tonal ment as music for regularity and temporal precision at the