particle type physical conventional
domain nature culture
figure can return and which can be used repeatedly in the song and speech are acquired through motor learning on the
development of a musical pattern. basis of heard, culturally transmitted models through a process
This discretization of the pitch continuum into determinate requiring intact hearing and feedback from one’s own voice
‘pitch sets’ supplies music with combinable pitch elements fea- [51-56]. The process by which they are acquired is technically
tured in musical melodies and chords [19,47,48]. Pitch sets thus known as vocal production learning [57,58], a dedicated and
supply the ‘particulates’, the individuated elements, needed highly specialized capacity that has no other common uses in
for its combinatorial mill. They are found in all musical our lives besides song and speech.
traditions cross-culturally. Indeed, one of the distinguishing Since there can be no human singing without it, the origin
marks of musicianship anywhere is adherence to the pitch of our capacity for vocal production learning bears directly
locations designated by a pitch standard during musical per- on scenarios for the origins of music. The issue is an acute
formance. Not to do so is to sing or play ‘out of tune’, the one, since the fact that other primates lack this capacity
quintessential demarcation line between musical and other [57,58] means that we became vocal learners at or after our
employments of human capacities. divergence from the common ancestor we share with chim-
The constraint imposed on theories of music origins by panzees. One limb of the comparative method—the tracing
the generativity of music is that no such theory can account of continuities (homologies) with our close evolutionary rela-
for the genesis of music as we know it without giving a cred- tives—is therefore unavailable for reconstructing its origin in
ible account of how we came to conquer for ourselves the this particular case, Byrne’s assertion to the contrary quoted
discretized (‘particulate’) elements without which there can in our introduction notwithstanding.
be no open-ended generativity of music. In light of what There are a variety of context- or learning-based modifi-
has been covered under Constraint no. 1, these elements cations of vocal output that do not involve the mechanism
may of course be prime products of a protracted process of vocal production learning in the technical sense applicable
of cultural transmission exploiting the tonal scaffolding of to human song and speech. They include contextual modu-
auditory system resonances along with factors such as the lation of vocal behaviour, socially or environmentally