The reason for the sparse distribution of the capacity for (in the dancing movements and perhaps clapping performed
mutual beat-based entrainment in nature is not far to seek. It in synchrony with the singing /music, Constraint no. 4), such
resides in the apparent lack of its general biological utility, behaviour qualifies as human music. Indeed, the fact that it
being virtually useless, with a very few narrowly constrained occurs in every human culture, and indeed subculture, without
exceptions. As far as is presently known, the functions it exception, unless deliberately suppressed by severe sanctions
serves where it features in the behavioural repertoire of non- against it, marks this phenomenon as the most universal
human species in the wild are confined to special cases of human behaviour of a musical kind on record.
mate attraction and predation defence (reviewed in [79,80]). In its ubiquity, this human propensity for occasiona’
Among the former the so-called ‘beacon effect’ [85] takes group singing and dancing would seem to constitute a proto-
pride of place, featuring thousands of synchronously signalling typical musical behaviour, all the more so as it can be staged
male fireflies whose entrainment precision falls at the more entirely without musical instruments (as in the traditiona’
skilled end of the human range, with a standard deviation in trance dance of the hunter—gatherers of the Kalahari Desert
period length of less than 3% [83]. Through their entrained [88], see also [89]). It may in fact represent the motivationa
luminescent signalling, single trees of permanent male congre- core of the human capacity for music from which its many
gations are converted to flashing ‘beacons’ visible from all other manifestations may have developed by differentiation,
directions despite the foliage that obstructs single lines of elaboration and specialization. One is assisted in becoming
sight in the tropical rainforest. Only male fireflies synchronize aware of the peculiarity and specificity of this behavioura
their flashing, and females are attracted to these displays. The propensity by imagining that in exactly those circumstances
synchronizing males, of course, are in competition for the in which we typically gather to sing and dance together in
females who arrive, and at close quarters females prefer a group, another human culture would gather in groups to
more luminous males, who are also bigger in size. draw pictures together instead.

Defensive uses of synchrony are of two principal kinds: The ubiquity and specificity of this putatively prototypical
evasive and deterrent. Synchronous calling among neighbour- musical behaviour would seem to require an explanation. In
ing callers may confuse a predator’s auditory ability to localize searching for one we enter for the first time onto the grounds