attempt to stage a ritual (massana), but are incapable of bringing it
off properly. Fables such as ‘Chimpanzee you will die’ (sumbu a
we) elaborate on this theme describing how chimpanzee tries to

occur as a consequence of characteristics of learning mechan-
isms and existing constraints providing the necessary

get initiated but has to be dissuaded to avoid him being killed frameworks for such development. Other underlying abilities
during the trials. required for musical behaviours, however (e.g. vocal learn-
(erome Lewis, personal communication to BM, 2014, with ing, entrainment), are likely to be the product of forms of
permission.) Darwinian selection. In these cases, the question then arises
Our propensity for occasional gatherings of excited group dis- regarding what modes of selection might be operative, and
plays may in fact be a primitive trait conserved in both on what, specifically, they might be operating.
lineages from our common ancestor, far predating its elabor- here are some general lessons from evolutionary theory
ation with specifically musical content in our case. If the that are relevant, but often ignored, in constructing evolutionary
propensity for an excited social noise-and-movement display scenarios for music (and language).
isindeed homologous in the two cases, one with musical content he first point is that biological evolution is always about
and the other without it, this bears directly on theories attribut- genetic change. Even though very few genes involved in
ing group or social functions to music. In case of homology the music have been identified [101], it is important to recognize
causal arrow may be reversed, the social efficacy deriving not that evolutionary scenarios, implicitly or explicitly, assume a
from the musical content of the group activity but from the moti- sequence of changes in gene frequencies in a population,
vational mechanisms of the group display itself, long antedating including the appearance of new genetic variants. Making
its musical elaboration. This ‘group excitement’ factor has to be this assumption explicit helps in avoiding the common fallacies
controlled for in studies designed to explore the emotional or of assuming (implicitly) unrealistic amounts of genetic changes
social significance and consequences of human music. (although that is difficult to quantify), assuming instantaneous