likelihood of contracting infections) and medical care government programmes provide real health benefits and = 2
(which reduces the likelihood that an infection actually real buffers against disease (e.g. government-mandated vacci-  “S
becomes debilitating). Furthermore, the infection-specific nation programmes). Distrust of these programmes can lead =
costs of social interaction must be weighed against the to a failure to take part in them [83,84], with negative =
broader health benefits associated with social interaction— health consequences for oneself and also for others. Ss
benefits that are especially likely to be realized within Xenophobia may also promote distrust of aid provided by ©
modern populations characterized by long lifespans. Individ- foreign nations and transnational non-governmental organiz- — -s
uals who are less gregarious have smaller networks of ations. This attitude can have problematic health implications =
friends, which puts them at greater risk for loneliness and especially within developing nations, given that these nations =
insufficient social support in times of need—both of which are especially likely to be offered aid from foreign govern- -
are associated with poorer health outcomes ([71-74]; see ments and from transnational organizations that provide 2
also Hawkley & Capitanio [75]). Especially relevant perhaps useful resources for combating infectious diseases and other S
is the fact that people who are socially disconnected experi- health problems. In 2003, for instance, distrust of Western gov- w
ence greater cumulative stress over the course of their lives. ernments led three states in northern Nigeria to boycott a polio =
In the words of Cacioppo ef al. [71, p. 72] ‘this stress contrib- vaccination programme sponsored by the World Health &
utes to wear and tear on individual organs (e.g. the heart) and Organization [85]. More broadly, to the extent that people— 5
deterioration of regulatory mechanisms (e.g. homeostasis) in or their local government representatives—are distrustful of = &
the brain and body. As a consequence, the health of lonely subjectively ‘foreign’ medical resources, the potential benefits
individuals fails sooner than the health of nonlonely individ- of those resources are likely to be underutilized.

uals’. Cumulative stress may have been a relatively minor
health concern (and have had negligible implications for

reproductive fitness) in ancestral populations. But, in many (3) Potential health costs of conformist attitudes
