[30] for cities and suburbs. bution of the second order of scattering is obtained near the
During the winter of 2009, I tried to find the AOD versus city limit, where it can reach 38% without the blocking effect
sky brightness relationship in Sherbrooke, Canada, by using generated by obstacles. By adding obstacles that are taller
the spectrometer for aerosol night detection (SAND) [33]. than light fixtures, this contribution drops to 14%. In any
The methodology used compared night radiance of the case, the contribution of the second order of scattering is not
569 nm sodium line with AERONET AOD measurement negligible and must be taken into consideration. When the
(CARTEL site) which was the nearest in time (less than 6 h) AOD rises, the percentage of the second order of scattering
[34]. Only the AERONET data which were stable were con- next to the city limits increases (compare figure 7 with figure
sidered, and a first-order correction to the SAND data was 6). In figure 7, the percentages obtained are 62% without
applied to reduce the impact of temporal variations in obstacles taller than light fixtures, and 32% with obstacles
snow cover during this period. This correction was made to taller than light fixtures. The importance of the second order
account for the major impact of snow reflection on the sky of scattering decreases more rapidly with distance for highly
radiance readings. In fact, the radiance was divided by the polluted atmospheres.
snow cover fraction. The SAND and the AERONET sunphot- Luginbuhl et al. [21] showed that omitting the effect of
ometer were located in the suburbs of Sherbrooke city and light blocking by objects, such as buildings and vegetation,
thus, according to Tian et al. [30], one must expect a weak could lead to an overestimation of the sky brightness by a
relationship between sky radiance and AOD. This relation- factor of more than two. This discrepancy is more important
ship, however, showed a significant increase in the AOD for larger zenith angles. In their study, they tried two
range 0—0.1, followed by a slow decrease. Tian et al.’s theor- methods to correct for obstacle blocking: the first one was

etical result is consistent with our observations presented in to define new upward intensity distributions with the help


2000
