efficacy in industrialized countries but much lower efficacy in

developing countries [8]. This is confirmed for RV, cholera 4, Vitamin A supplementation
and poliovirus. The live cholera vaccine CVD 103-HgkR elicited Vitamin A is the term given to a collection of different but
a significant (fourfold or greater) rise in serum vibriocidal related molecules [17]. These include retinol, retinyl esters,
antibody in North American adults, but the same vaccine retinoic acid (RA) and B-carotene, most of which are intercon-
demonstrated diminished immunogenicity in Indonesia, vertible and can replace each other in the treatment of the
Thailand, Peru and Ecuador [8]. Oral RV vaccine was found VAD state. VAD is clinically recognizable as night blindness,
to be 78% effective against severe RV diarrhoea in Finland progressing to keratomalacia, and this is the only absolute
[9], but was only 35% effective in Malawi [10]. Although the indication for vitamin A treatment using high doses. There
reported efficacy of RV in Malawi and other poor settings have been many studies which show an association between
[11,12] was low, it was found that the population level benefits increased infectious disease and evidence of compromised
of the vaccination were likely to be greater in these poor set- vitamin A status, but these are confounded by the fact that
tings with highest incidence. Mahdi et al. [10] showed that serum retinol concentration, and probably bioavailability to
because of the high incidence of severe disease, a vaccine effi- tissues, are impaired during an acute phase response [18].
cacy of 61.2% resulted in a substantial vaccine-attributable The most reliable data therefore come from intervention
overall reduction in severe gastroenteritis of 5.0 cases per 100 studies. In Ghana, supplementation with retinol palmitate
infant-years. They also compared the severe gastroenteritis capsules (200000IU) every four months was associated
episode cases from Malawi and South Africa and found that with a 34% (95%CI 8-53%) reduction in deaths due to diar-
although vaccine efficacy was higher in South Africa, there rhoeal disease in children under the age of 7.5 years and a
were more episodes (6.7 episodes prevented) of severe RV gas- reduction of 19% (95%CI 2-32%) in all-cause mortality [19].
troenteritis per 100 infant-years prevented by vaccination in It was on the basis of this and other studies that vitamin A
Malawi than in South Africa (4.2 episodes prevented). These supplementation programmes, using intermittent treatment
data showed that even though the efficacy of RV is low, it with mega-doses of retinol were widely adopted in the
is still worth giving in developing countries. OPV also is 1990s. Since then large trials have been conducted on the