of this literature, see [103]). By age 2, the glucose metabolism discussed, reflecting a debate that extends back at least a cen-
of the infant brain has reached adult levels and by the end of tury on the relative importance of intrinsic versus evoked
the first decade of life it is, remarkably, twice that of the activity in brain function [36]. More recently brain imaging
adult (see fig. 2 in [103]). Thirty per cent of glucose use in an in humans has added a new dimension to this discussion
average 10 year old is aerobic glycolysis. Levels of glucose both in terms of the large-scale organization of intrinsic
metabolism, aerobic glycolysis and oxygen consumption activity and also its cost.
decline to adult levels early in the second decade of life. This Presently, we know that intrinsic activity is a complex
time course parallels remarkably that of synaptic proliferation tapestry of highly interrelated activities across levels of analy-
and pruning. Finally, adult levels of synapses appear to be sis from behaviour and large-scale brain systems to cells, their
maintained through a dynamic balance between synaptic pro- membrane properties, metabolism and genes. In addition to
liferation and synaptic elimination [129]. Aerobic glycolysis the remarkable organization of this activity is the fact that it
is needed in this situation where constituents are being is largely responsible for the enormous cost of brain function.
constantly remodelled in the service of learning and memory. Together these facts have led to the growing realization that
It should be noted that the hippocampus, long associated intrinsic activity is vitally important for brain function
with learning and memory, actually has a low level of aerobic across the lifespan.
glycolysis (figure 3a). Further work will obviously be needed to In achieving the goal of understanding intrinsic activity
understand the implications of this with regard to the role of more fully, integrating information from multiple levels of

the hippocampus and other medial temporal lobe structures analysis will be required. This will be challenging but


ultimately rewarding in coming to a better understanding of function (very large) became apparent to me. In selecting the term
the human brain in health and disease. The intellectual and ‘dark energy’, I wanted to highlight the neglect that this discrepancy

. . . has endured and the lack of understanding that has resulted. Some