occur in response to acute changes in internal state, tasks have been pursued in the past, including clustering of fibre bun-
and stimuli. Characterizing the dynamic nature of functio- dles and tractography-derived streamlines [63], myelination
nal connectivity represents a key challenge for cerebral patterns [64], boundary detection [65] and region-growing
cartography—creating dynamic brain maps will require devel- methods applied to resting-state functional connectivity [66],
oping new ways to capture temporal variability and context or combinations of functional connectivity and task-evoked
dependence of functional networks. regional activation profiles [67]. All of these strategies build on

the notion that connectivity defines function. According to
this idea, what and how a patch of cortex ‘computes’ (how it
transforms inputs into outputs) depends crucially on its connec-

3, Pa Icel | ation and commun ity detection tional relations with other patches of cortex and subcortex [68].
Since the beginnings of cerebral cartography, anatomists have In fact, it has been consistently found that each anatomically dis-
expended extraordinary efforts to discern and map structu- tinct brain region maintains a specific and unique pattern of
ral features of cortical micro-anatomy in order to define inputs and outputs. The similarities between these connection
architectonic boundaries between brain areas. Increasingly, ‘fingerprints’ can be used to cluster regions into functionally
such areal maps are enriched by addition of multi-modal related sub-groups [69,70]. Connections that are made over
information such as data on gene expression patterns [57], longer distances are generally sparser than short-distance
energy metabolism [58] and meta-analyses of databases on connections [71], suggesting a strong role for long-distance
regional brain activation patterns [59,60]. This multi-modality projections in specialized cortical processing.

may ultimately result in maps that, like ‘Google Earth’, will Connectivity-based parcellation has begun to make impor-
allow the user to ‘zoom in’ on anatomical locations and tant contributions in more refined mapping of some parts of
view different layers of data types, with each layer represent- the cerebral cortex. For example, recent studies using structural
