directly relevant to cognitive function [85]. long-standing objectives of cerebral cartography is to link

An interesting issue for the future concerns the relationship the physical arrangement of the brain’s neural elements to
between areal parcellations and partitioning of the cortex their functional roles. Connectomics shares this integrative
into coherently active and spatially extended network com- perspective on structure/function relations. Since the begin-
munities. Are these network communities composed of ning, connectomics was explicitly motivated by the desire
discrete and non-overlapping sets of areas, or can areas straddle to provide mechanistic (structural) accounts of functional
network boundaries and participate in multiple large-scale brain activity. This goal was a central objective in the original
networks at different times? Recent work suggests that some proposal for mapping the human connectome [14], and it was
parts of the cortex are more rigidly associated with a single net- also inherent in the compilation of the Caenorhabditis elegans
work, while others can participate in multiple networks [86]. connectome, carried out at the level of individual neurons
A related set of questions concerns the uniformity and temporal and synapses more than a quarter century ago [101]. In
stability of both areal and network representations. For fact, model organisms such as C. elegans offer unique oppor-
example, do task-evoked activations always respect areal tunities for understanding how network structure and
boundaries, as established for example by connectivity-based function relate at the scale of cells and circuits.
gradient methods? Comparison of areal boundaries derived At the microscale, modern advances in circuit mapping
from resting-state functional connectivity with task-evoked and manipulation [102] have begun to significantly expand
areal activations and cytoarchitectonic boundaries suggests a our understanding of how circuit topology relates to neural
high degree of spatial correspondence [61,87]. Other data computation and behaviour. Many important insights have
suggest that, in addition to areal boundaries, supra-areal assem- come from studies in model organisms. For example, analysis
blies or ‘map clusters’ may also play an important functional of the ‘wiring diagram’ of the C. elegans adult male [103]
role [88]. A related question concerns the extent to which intrin- has revealed network features such as multiple parallel path-
sic or resting-state networks represent coherent functional units. ways that link sensory neurons to effector neurons, some
Recent studies suggest that resting-state networks can be degree of recurrence within sensory systems, and structural
further decomposed and hence may not always respond modules—all features that can be related to specific aspects