cally detailed models of dynamic effects induced by focal brain to more detailed physiological models that can generate simu-
lesions [144], degeneration [145] or psychiatric disorders [146]. lations of rich temporal patterns of brain dynamics, but that
Another intriguing application of network-based computatio- are also computationally costly and difficult to implement.
nal modelling is the use of such models to capture spreading Physics-based models of communication processes combine
dynamics of epilepsy, which may eventually become a tool computational simplicity with analytic transparence. Despite
for data-driven surgical mapping and selection of stimulation their simplicity, models that are based on structural graph
sites [147]. measures [148] and/or models of diffusive processes [149]

Computational models are also increasingly useful for and routing [150] have proved capable of reproducing observa-
understanding the mechanistic underpinnings of functional tional data on brain dynamics, for example, the topography of
connectivity. This is important since functional connectivity resting-brain functional connectivity (figure 3).
has become a prominent mode for measuring brain dynamics, In summary, computational models of the human brain
despite the fact that its neurobiological origin and meaning are that can reproduce and predict patterns of brain activity at
far from clear. It is generally assumed that functional con- rest and in response to stimulus- and task-evoked pertur-
nectivity reflects ‘dynamic interactions’ among nodes in the bations have come within reach, not least because of

brain, ie. is driven by the temporal dynamics of neural significant progress in human connectomics and cerebral


cartography. It seems certain that network maps will remain and their hierarchical organization into large-scale networks, El

important ingredients for building ever more detailed the extension of whole-brain connectivity to cellular-scale
computational brain models in the future. networks, and the mapping of structure/function relations a
in empirical recordings and computational models. s
