Nevertheless, little is known about the possible adaptive strategy to decrease the abnormal cortical glutamatergic
changes of the striatal medium spiny neurons following this pro- activity observed in PD [50].

cedure in comparison with L-DOPA treatment. Interestingly, it
has been reported that the beneficial motor effects produced in

parkinsonian rats by subthalamic lesion or L-DOPA therapy (b) Long-term depression
are paralleled by the normalization of the overactive frequency Among the various mechanisms of action that have been pos-
and amplitude of striatal glutamate-mediated spontaneous tulated to underlie the beneficial motor and cognitive effects
excitatory postsynaptic currents. Thus, the reversal of these of L-DOPA is the restoration of physiological forms of synap-
abnormalities in striatal excitatory synaptic transmission can tic plasticity such as long-term depression (LTD), long-term
be attributable to the normalization of glutamate release [47]. potentiation (LTP) and synaptic depotentiation in different
Another promising field of investigation is the link brain areas (figure 2). In fact, cognition and memory are
between glutamatergic synaptic transmission, L-DOPA and generally believed to involve the adjustment of synaptic
the endocannabinoid system. This system is highly expressed strength in networks of connected neurons. Accordingly, LTD
at different levels in the basal ganglia where it bidirectio- and LTP are processes whereby synaptic strength is rapidly

nally interacts with the dopaminergic and glutamatergic decreased or increased, respectively, and they are currently


the best candidates as cellular substrates of cognition and regulate the intracellular levels of cyclic GMP to reduce LIDs | 6 |

memory. Similarly, maladaptive synaptic plasticity might med- [17]. Behavioural measurements of LIDs were performed
iate the adverse motor effects such as LIDs and wearing-off as before and after the treatment with two phosphodiesterase a
well as non-motor symptoms such as cognitive dysfunction inhibitors, zaprinast and UK-343664. LIDs were associated s