models were generated in transgenic mice in which


transfection with a bacterial artificial chromosome allows the and accumbens, measured by diffusion tensor imaging, is | 8 |

expression of the enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein selec- associated to inter-individual differences in the expression
tively on the direct or the indirect output pathways [19]. In of this expected reward value signal in the ventral striatum. a
control mice, bidirectional synaptic plasticity (LTD and LTP) Interestingly, L-DOPA augments the task-based learning s
was induced, resulting in a significant change in the amplitude rate and task performance in old adults to the level of a
of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in each direction in both young adults. This pharmacological effect is linked to the .
striatal output pathways. In parkinsonism and LIDs, both recovery of a normal neural reward prediction error
pathways exhibited only unidirectional plasticity, irrespective suggesting that in old adults there is a neurochemical failure
of stimulation paradigm. In fact, in parkinsonian animals, a of the dopaminergic system underlying reward processing 2.
symptomatic dose of L-DOPA restored bidirectional plasticity operating in the ventral striatum [86]. 3
on both pathways to levels comparable to control animals. In L-DOPA does not only induce restorative positive thera- ©
dyskinetic animals, in the presence of L-DOPA, the indirect peutic effects in the ventral striatum. In fact, in PD patients —
pathway exhibited only LTD, whereas in the direct pathway, this DA precursor improves task-switching performance but =
only LTP could be induced. Thus, this study further confirms impairs certain aspects of cognitive function, such as reversal =
the concept that while normal motor control requires bidirec- learning [87,88]. In particular, it has been postulated that the -
tional plasticity of both striatal outputs, LIDs are caused by a beneficial effect of L-DOPA on task-switching reflects a com- 2
switch from bidirectional to unidirectional plasticity. pensation of DA levels in depleted dorsal frontostriata S
Another study of Surmeier’s group suggests that changes circuitry, whereas the impairing effect of LDOPA on reversa w
of spike-timing-dependent plasticity in the PD state and in learning reflects a detrimental ‘over-dosing’ of intact ventra od
LIDs are cell-type specific. In fact, the intrinsic excitability frontostriatal circuitry [87,88]. According to this hypothesis, ©
and corticostriatal synaptic connectivity of medium spiny functional imaging studies in PD patients have revealed that ©