cells are activated by visible light (time-course shown as a thick horizontal
outlined bar; yellow online) and relax spontaneously in the dark. Circles
(blue online) show human embryonic kidney cell recordings in voltage-
clamp configuration at —75 mV (replotted with permission from [7]). Our
simulated approximation (thin solid line; blue online) used an exponential
onset of time-constant of 20 ms and an offset time-constant of 200 ms.
For comparison, a crude simulation of primate phototransduction dynamics
(using an exponential time-constant of 20 ms for both onset and offset) is
also plotted (dashed line; red online). For our purposes, a crude approxi-
mation of time-courses was adequate; more accurate modelling of these
time-courses can be found in [7] and [60], respectively. (b) The image of
a child scooting (same as figure 1a). (c) The image of figure 1a was in
fact taken from a movie sequence. Here, we show the image frame of
figure 1a, with the movie filtered using the temporal dynamics of LiGluR-
MAGOjgo. Rather dramatically, the sluggish temporal dynamics causes the
scooting child to almost completely disappear. The movie version of (c) is
shown in the electronic supplementary material. (Online version in colour.)

prosthetics have provided an approximation of the sensory (e.g. [65]) dramatically alter the tonotopic organization of pri-
input to the missing sense (e.g. cochlear implant) or effector mary auditory cortex, even in adult animals. This plasticity
organ (e.g. prosthetic limbs). Encouragingly, the plasticity is consistent with clinical data suggesting that after implan-
of the auditory and motor system has proved up to the chal- tation with a cochlear implant (in deaf children or adults
lenge of making perceptual sense of highly distorted input. who become deaf later in life), there is an adjustment period
Here, we discuss what is currently known about cortical plas- of many months during which both pitch discrimination and
ticity and how such plasticity might serve to minimize the language comprehension improve.