movements [8,9]. Penfield and co-workers [10,11] then estab- classified neurons in these brain systems therefore requires =
lished that applying stimulation to many brain areas outside new experimental approaches. The remainder of this review “2
of the motor system could produce sensory and cognitive summarizes recent studies that use activity-dependent expres- ©
effects. Indeed, this approach was used to verify the presence sion of molecules sensitive to chemical or optical stimulation. — 5
of topographic maps in sensory cortices; for example, stimu- These approaches allow the manipulation of neuronal activity =
lation of primary visual cortex produces phosphenes at the in physiologically classified neurons that may be anatomically =
location of the receptive field of the stimulated neurons [12-15]. intermingled. Although these strategies have proved power- -
The discovery that electrical microstimulation could pro- ful in elucidating the neural circuits that mediate several 2
duce sensory effects led to approaches that used the power innate and learned behaviours, significant challenges await. S
of electrophysiological recordings in combination with care- Many cognitive functions likely rely on algorithms that w
fully designed psychophysical tasks to test causal hypotheses integrate information from neurons with complex physiologi- = ©
about the role of physiologically classified neurons. These cal response properties. Current strategies for manipulating ©
studies typically exploit the fact that many sensory areas physiologically classified neurons may therefore provide insuf- s
exhibit functional organization whereby neurons with similar ficient specificity to study the mechanisms underlying complex &
physiological properties are clustered together anatomically cognitive behaviours.

(e.g. in cortical columns). This organization permits the
positioning of microelectrodes in the middle of a cluster of

neurons that encode a similar sensory parameter. The goal is 2. Genetic strategies for activating neurons based

to preferentially activate neurons that encode this feature. In

a series of experiments, Salzman, Newsome and co-workers on physiological response properties
[4,5,16—20] provided causal evidence that the activity of direc- Our current understanding of the molecular, morphological