group of over 2000 animals, of which about 50% succumbed tion of the extant data reveals a curvature of the relation
to cancer by 800 days of age [45]. These observations appear between logB and logM, which is not strictly linear and
to support but do not prove the general contention of does not fit the WBE model [53]. Modifications of the WBE
Peto’s paradox. model, however, could improve the theoretical model fit
If one were to assume that it is true that larger animals with empirical data. This work suggests that the general con-
have relatively lower rates of cancer burden compared with cept of nutrient resource distribution could provide the
smaller mammals, could metabolic rates that scale with mechanistic underpinning for the scaling of metabolic rates
body size be associated with the propensity for tumorigen- with body mass.
esis? The correlation of animal body size with basal Although the WBE theoretical framework appears
metabolic rates has been recognized for many decades, start- compelling and fits the observed power law function of
ing with the observations of Max Klieber in the 1930s which B= M*, the evidence for alterations in capillary density as
document a relationship between animal body mass and the a function of animal body size is not well documented.
amount of heat production per day [46] who found that body In fact, examination of the literature on capillary density in
mass best correlated with 3/4 power of whole body basal key muscle tissues does not fully support this contention
metabolic rate (B) (B = M°*/*; where M is body mass). This [54]. Schmidt-Nielsen & Pennycuik [55] compared the capil-
power law is known as Klieber’s law, which has been a lary density across 10 mammals by studying masseter and
matter of debate regarding the exact magnitude of that gastrocnemius muscles. While the smallest of mammals
power; ie. 2/3 versus 3/4. It had been argued that basal appear to have some of the highest capillary densities, suc
metabolic rate relates to heat loss through body surface as those found in bat and mouse, capillary density does not
area, which would be more closely aligned with the 2/3 scale monotonically over larger animals. It appears that
power. An updated examination of extant data suggests other factors, such as the type of muscle, activity and cold
that the power function is closer to 3/4 than 2/3, although acclimation, may play a significant role in determining capil-
there is significant variability in subgroups of mammals. It lary density. Activity appears to be a key factor in capillary
is notable that mass-specific metabolic rate B’ is defined as density and perfusion, as capillary blood transit time
B/M and reflects metabolic rates normalized to tissue mass, (a measure of tissue perfusion) correlates with muscle mito-