are differences: IgG1 and IgG3 share the same distribution both the CD27* and CD27” memory populations. The relative
of IGHV family usage, but this is different to the IGHV amounts do not change with age in the CD27” memory cells,
family repertoire in IgG2. The IgG2 repertoire has more in but in the CD27* memory cells there is a significantly greater
common with the IgA1 and IgA2 repertoires than with the proportion of IgA2 in the older group (figure 2a). In the
other IgG subclasses, having more IGHV3 and less IGHV1. CD27 IgG population again there is not much age-related
The IgG2/IgA1/IgA2 pattern of IGHV gene usage also difference, except perhaps a slight increase in IgG1. However,
shows similarity with the IgM memory repertoire (figure 1b). the largest age-related differences are in the CD27* memory
Hence, it would appear that the selective forces acting on the population, where the proportion of IgG2 increases significantly
IgG1 and IgG3 antibody repertoire differ from the other at the expense of IgG1&3 (figure 2a).
types of memory cells. The differences in IGHV family use between IgG1&3 and
Although the IGHD repertoire only varies slightly between IgG2 that we saw in the young are no longer present in the
cells (data not shown) the IGH] repertoire varies significantly older samples (figure 2b). This seems to be mainly because
between naive and memory cells. There is an increased fre- of the fact that old IgG1&3 genes use a similar repertoire to
quency usage of IGHJ4 within memory cells compared with that of IgG2, having a significantly increased use of IGHV3
antigen-inexperienced cells, which occurs at the expense of compared with the young IgG1&3 samples. This change
IGHJ6 (figure 1c). This will have an impact on the CDR-H3 seems to be a result of many smaller changes at the individ-
region, which makes the largest contribution to the antigen ual gene levels, as there were not many individual genes that

binding site of the antibody. We have previously shown that were significantly changed with age (figure 2c).


(a) IgD-CD27* IgD-CD27- (c)
1007 . ; 2.06 15 IgG1&3
bo a ow 2 young 2
3 80 °F Bou =