ever, when the same assay is carried out for the viral variant occurred, albeit with a lag of more than six months.
population contemporaneous with this same neutralizing Finally, at 2 years post infection, the glycan disappeared from
plasma, the contemporaneous virus population is not inhibi- the viral population, suggesting that the virus again escaped
ted. In other words, by the time a neutralizing antibody the antibody response.
response against a virus strain is detectable in the blood, the A similar chain of events was observed by Wibmer et al.
viral population has already mutated to escape it. Figure 2 [27], where three waves of increasingly broad neutralizing
shows the lag in response time of neutralizing plasma against antibody responses occurred in a single individual. The first
the viral population from four patients [21]. The lag, which wave of antibodies emerged at around 16 months and tar-
varies over time and among patients, ranges from about six geted the V2 loop, another region known to be variable
to 16 months. and immunogenic [22]. Escape from this first wave occurred

Because viral escape occurs, the initial neutralizing anti- via deletion of a glycan on which the first-wave antibody
bodies do not clear the infection. In fact, whether these depended. This deletion simultaneously exposed an epitope
antibodies play any role in controlling the viral population on the CD4 binding site, leading to a second wave of broadly
is unclear [24]. This is slightly counterintuitive because for neutralizing antibodies at around 28 months that relied on
immune escape variants to replace the infecting strain, the CD4 binding site neutralization. Immune escape and a sub-
viral population would need to have been under selective sequent third wave of broadly neutralizing antibodies
pressure. Yet there are no obvious clinical manifestations of followed, though the location of the escape mutations
this selection, such as a notable decrease in the viral popu- and the targets of the antibodies were not identified in
lation. This could be due to plasma and viral samples being the study.
taken too infrequently to detect such changes, or that Perhaps the most detailed study to date, with resolution at
the effects of the antibody response manifest themselves in the level of antibody clonal lineages, comes from [28] in the

tissues rather than peripheral blood. case of patient CH505 [2]. Gao and colleagues identified a
