understanding environment of like-minded individuals, i
whereas the latter must be able to both interpret and and that— 2
convey the same information not only within that learned Among existing forensic methods, only nuclear DNA analysis S
society but also to an almost exclusively lay audience with has been rigorously shown to have the capacity to consistently, w
different expectations and exacting demands. Effective and and with a high degree of certainty, demonstrate a connection >
efficient communication and understanding of science are between an evidentiary sample and a specific individual or =

: sage . . source. (p. 100) —
viewed as significant constraints in the courtroom and the Ss
source of much angst and conflict. Avoidance of adverse dis- The NAS report delivered a stark reality check for forensic = =
course by achieving common agreement can only benefit the science, and one that shocked a normally complacent and
judicial process as lawyers seek to assist the undisputed triers conservative community into accepting that there were sig-
of fact (the jury) to reach a sound and honest decision of guilt nificant issues that required to be addressed and critical
or innocence. jobs to be done if the forensic science house was to be brought

Indeed, it has been argued that forensic science is perhaps into order. That this task was largely laid at the door of the
one of the most impactful examples of public and societal scientist has not been so readily accepted and we have
engagement with science, and, therefore, it is incumbent tended to hide behind the laziest solution that first springs
upon the scientists to be vigilant in self-governance and to mind—we need more funds to be made available. But it
appraisal to ensure that the jury and the legal teams have a is well recognized that increasing the cash flow to a system
full and realistic understanding of the current state of play that is not fit for purpose and is fundamentally flawed will
for the science that they seek to use and understand. Neither not carry any confidence of securing a positive fix. Indeed,
the science nor the scientists are infallible and indeed both it can serve to reinforce the entrenchment of the bad practices
must expect to come under intense scrutiny in an adversarial of the past by conveying a sense of tacit and obligate
legal system, but there is also a duty of responsibility on all approval to traditionalists, who may seek to maintain the