ethical standards requiring professional conduct that would realism. Adversarial criminal procedure does not need to be -
be completely irrational (‘fighting with one hand tied an idealist’s paragon to deflect criticism, but only, in the 2
behind your back’; ‘helping your opponent’) in a no-holds- final analysis, the least worst practical alternative. Even if the S
barred forensic contest. The formal juridical pedigree of most that can be said for the version of adversarial criminal w
applicable normative standards is less significant than their procedure adopted in a particular jurisdiction is that itis  °
cultural status and practical institutional backing. In England ‘the best of a bad lot’, the nuclear options of either having ©
and Wales, at least, it is my impression that delegated or ‘soft the police take suspects directly to jail without any inter- s
law’ norms such as the PACE Codes of Practice, the CPS ceding judicial process (ie. a ‘police state’ operating =
Code for Crown Prosecutors and the Bar Code of Conduct administrative detention), or abandoning all pretentions to
are treated as no less” binding in the day-to-day conduct retributive justice and crime control through penal sanctions
of criminal investigations, prosecutions and trials than (scrapping criminal law) are far, far worse.
primary legislation. This begs the question: is adversarial criminal procedure
Comparative criminology and socio-legal scholarship con- (as actually practised in England and Wales) in fact the best
tinually rediscover that procedural models are mediated by option, or are there practically viable options that could,
institutional culture and the working routines of frontline prac- and perhaps should, replace it? Two methodological con-
titioners [60,61]. The version of adversarial criminal procedure siderations seriously complicate efforts to answer this
practised in England and Wales owes as much to prevailing question. First, answers must be jurisdiction-specific, taking
cultural expectations as it does to an abstract ideological com- account of local procedural traditions and institutional cul-
mitment to adversarialism. Drawing essential nourishment ture. There is no absolute ‘best’ at large, but only relative
from its rich but also somewhat protean institutional cultural best for a particular legal system at a particular point in time.
environment, procedural tradition is simultaneously enduring Secondly, the criteria of excellence for models of criminal
and fragile. It is vulnerable to hostile external policy pressures, adjudication are primarily normative and only secondarily
internal defection (e.g. where jaded practitioners capitulate to epistemic. That is to say, criminal procedure must first and
cynicism), and failures to reproduce itself through education foremost satisfy the requirements of justice, for which a com-
and (positive) acculturation. Notably, serious efforts have mitment to truth-finding is a necessary but by no means