erty alleviation is seen on steep land near cities. This might estly successful in preventing deforestation and reducing poverty
suggest that communities that do not face the typical agricul- in surrounding communities [6,18]. We use sophisticated econo-
ture/protection trade-off (because they are on land that is not metric methods to estimate how the joint environmental and
suitable for agricultural cultivation) may benefit from protection socioeconomic impacts of protected areas varied across key
when they are near cities that provide potential tourists. socioeconomic and biophysical moderators. We find that there
In juxtaposition, figure 2c,f offers interesting insight to the was significant heterogeneity in the impacts of protected areas
joint impact of Bolivia’s protected areas. According to these that was not captured in previous studies that estimated the aver-
three-dimensional LOESS results, the areas in which protected age impacts of Bolivia’s protected areas. Our results indicate that,
areas were most effective in preventing deforestation (flat land in Bolivia, the impacts of protected areas are nuanced and thus
near cities) were the areas in which protection had the most nega- do not conform to the boilerplate arguments for or against
tive socioeconomic impacts. This type of stark trade-off is not protected areas in developing nations (e.g. [2]).
observed in the PLM results. We do, however, observe areas of From a socioeconomic perspective, we find no evidence that
the joint slope—distance to major city distribution in which pro- protected areas created or exacerbated poverty traps. In fact,
tected areas have benefited the environment and the local some of the most positive responses to protected areas are
communities. Protected areas appear to have been effective in observed in communities that lie below the average baseline
preventing deforestation on low-slope land (less than 10°) at all poverty level. This is consistent with findings from Costa Rica,
distances to major cities. We also observe some of the greatest which should help assuage concerns that, because poorer popu-
poverty alleviation distant from cities on low-slope land. lations might tend to depend on the environment for sustenance
When we compare where protection has been most suc- or as a backstop, poorer populations are at greatest risk of
cessful with where protected areas have tended to be socioeconomic harm from the establishment of protected areas.

placed, the reason for the modest success of Bolivia’s Our results also provide no evidence that protected areas


differentially affected indigenous populations. This is of particu- for a handful of countries highlights the need to further