size. This alone could explain the differences in parasitaemia variability in peak parasitaemia cannot be accounted for.
observed [29]. Another, and perhaps more important Second, as mentioned above, the timing of peak parasitaemia
difference, is that while in intraperitoneal injections the may be different in mosquito-triggered infections (our time
blood-stage parasites are injected more or less directly into estimates were based on intraperitoneal infections). Finally,
the bloodstream, mosquitoes inject sporozoites which need to the peak parasitaemia may have shifted with time as a by-
go through the whole exoerythrocytic merogony in the reticu- product of the serial passages. All of these issues are worthy
loendothelial cells of several organs (liver, spleen) before of study and we are currently developing new blood sampling
reaching the blood [21]. The decrease in parasitaemia we methods that will allow us to monitor parasitaemia daily to
observed after a mosquito passage may simply be due to a explore them further.
delay in the arrival of parasites in the bloodstream. However,
we also detected a negative carry-over effect of the mosquito
passage in the subsequent standard (intraperitoneal) passage (b) Bird infection traits
immediately following it. This suggests that the mosquito One of the most troubling facts when working with avian
effect goes beyond a mere dose or delay issue, and that passage malaria is the large variance in bird parasitaemias we obtain,
through mosquitoes could durably alter the outcome of evol- much of which can be explained by unavoidable variations in
ution through passage experiments. Similar results have conditions between experiments. However, even within a
recently been obtained in the rodent malaria model, where single experiment, birds infected concomitantly from the
passage through mosquitoes reduced parasitaemia for five same pool of blood show a large variance in both their
passages before increasing again [30]. In addition, lower para- parasitaemia and gametocytaemia (electronic supplementary
sitaemia was associated with a reduced virulence and a material, figure S4). The reasons for this variation are not
modification of the expression of genes involved in antigenic known but may be numerous. Birds vary widely in their
variation [30]. Clearly, more detailed experiments could be car- susceptibility to infection according to, among other things,
ried out with our system to decipher the impact of mosquito their age [7,32,33], body condition [34,35] and any previous or
passages on the experimental evolution of P. relictum. concurrent infections [36,37]. Canaries are not a standard exper-
Further experiments will also be needed to address two imental animal; hence we lack information about many of these