
Figure 2. A continuum of specificity. Labelled are features common to Archaea and Bacteria that would be instances of convergent evolution if tree 1-4 is correct,
though we stress these labels are early approximations. See §5 for a discussion of these features and their implications for the plausibility of EF views.

As an example, consider the genetic code. Crick [48] once Crick’s argument also rests on an analysis of the difficulty
argued that the only reason the genetic code was universal of evolving different codes, which depends on the selective
was because all life shares common ancestry; the code is a advantage of any alternative code relative to the cost of new
‘frozen accident’. His reasoning was based on two factors: variations. If the evolutionary cost of modifying the code is
the specificity of the code and (discussed later) the difficulty low or if the selective advantage of an alternative code
(indeed ‘lethality’) of evolving alternative codes once one had is very high, we would expect natural selection to move
been established. towards the more optimal code—even from very distant
Specificity, in this case, is the fraction of all mathemat- starting points. Convergence on an ideal code would not be
ically or physically possible codes represented by existing difficult in such a scenario. In fact, there are many instances
codes—one or a few divided by a very large number. But on Earth of variations in the genetic code [53] but all
it may be that some codes are superior to others, because are, as Crick surmised, minor. The vast majority of likely
of nucleic acid chemistry (for instance, a stereochemical fit possible codes are not explored because of the advantage of
between anticodon and amino acid, whose generality moving to an entirely new code, even if superior, cannot
Crick was at pains to discount) or because of their overcome the cost of doing so. Each of three popular models
buffering of the effects of mutation. When accounting for for codon reassignment (‘codon capture’, ‘ambiguous inter-
such features as hydrophobicity and production of physico- mediate’ and ‘genome streamlining’) is sufficiently codon-or
chemically similar amino acids, it has been argued that tRNA-specific and onerous that it is difficult to imagine
99.97% of possible codes are mutationally less robust than reassignment of many codons at once, even in small genomes
our current code [49]. But even if we suppose the vast [50]. So even when the number of selectively equiv-
majority of codes are worse than our current code, it alent alternatives is high, transitions between them may be
might still follow that there are tens of thousands of equiv- very difficult (highly constrained), rendering convergence