very strong correspondence between genome size estimates achieve truly complete coverage of a genome sequence. Thus,
derived from genome assembly and those generated using there may be a trend towards systematic underestimation of
more traditional cytogenetic approaches such as Feulgen genome content in most sequencing projects [10]. It is worth
densitometry and flow cytometry (figure 1a). There are discre- noting that the relationship between total coverage of a
pancies, however. For the most part, sequence-based genome and the size of the discrepancy was weakly negative
calculations provide a lower estimate of total DNA content but marginally non-significant (r= —0.117, p= 0.088, n=

than densitometric or flow cytometric methods. This mismatch 212 contrasts), suggesting that at least some of the information


that may be missing from many sequence datasets is indeed dif- (ancient) genome duplications among eukaryotic lineages.

ficult to obtain. As an example, Koga [24] showed that harder to A much higher rate of polyploidy may also explain the fact
assemble internal regions of the Tol2 DNA transposon in the that plants have nearly twice as many genes as animals on a
Oryzias latipes genome were missing from the assembly but average (table 1). It may also be the case that the frequency s
were nonetheless quantifiable using a Southern blot analysis and/or magnitude of smaller scale gene duplication (and/ a
of genomic DNA. or loss) events scale with genome size, for example as a 2
Perhaps more important is the disparity in the sizes of result of unequal crossing over between non-homologous 5
genomes that have been examined using sequencing versus repetitive elements. It is also possible that the retention of =
traditional methods. Whereas the average for sequenced gene duplicates correlates with genome size, perhaps =
genomes is around 1000 Mbp for animals and plants, the indirectly. For example, Lynch & Conery [32] argue that ‘2
mean values in the databases (based on thousands of species) larger genomes evolve in lineages with smaller long-term ©
is more than 4000 Mbp for animals and more than 6000 Mbp effective population size because this allows mildly deleter- — -
for plants. And this is to say nothing of the maximum ious insertions of non-coding DNA to accumulate by drift =
reported genome sizes in animals and plants, which are rather than being eliminated by purifying selection. This =