(3 per 100 m/); therefore we controlled for the availability of 3
stone tools. (e) Comparison of tool selection: hammer accumulation =

We systematically placed line transects throughout the . . s
home range area of South Group and the potential former and direct observation YX
home range of the immigrants, the SoS territory. Transects To determine potential differences in tool selection between local ee
were of 500 m in a North to South direction, equally distributed residents of South Group and immigrants, we used a two-step
and separated from one another by 500m (figure 1). Total approach. We fitted two generalized linear mixed models
transect length in the South Group territory was 22 km, and (GLMMs) [58] with binominal error structure for both datasets
in the potential former territory of the immigrants total transect (accumulation of tools at nut-cracking sites and direct obser-
length was 48km. In the Tai forest, three different stone vation of tool selection). We set tool material (stone or wood)
materials (laterite, granite and quartz) are used by the chim- as the response variable for the first model, addressing the arte-
panzees. Even though laterite is less sturdy than granite and facts we found In the territory, and we included the location of
quartz, chimpanzees still preferred it over wooden tools the tool (anvil at which the tool was found) as a random effect
[15,4142]. Stones found on the transects were only counted into the model. To analyse the direct observations in the
as potential tools when they ranged within the average selected second model, we included group affiliation (immigrant or resi-
hammer size (assessed from previous observations [42]); the dent of South Group), the day in the nut season (z-transformed to
minimum tool mass was determined to be 80g, which trans- a mean of zero and a standard deviation of unity) and as random
lated on average into a minimum of 3 cm length on one side effects date and individual. As the identity of the tool user was
of the stone. The maximum tool mass was determined to be known through direct observation, we additionally included
10000 g (which was only observed to be selected four times random slopes of date within individual into the model [59].
in three nut seasons). For our survey, stones with a minimum We then bootstrapped the estimates of the full model 1000
length of 3cm were reliably visible and recorded as potential times and compared the confidence intervals at the level of
tools when found within a maximum distance of 1m to 95%. We plotted the results to inspect visually the overlap the
the left and right of the transect. In order to compare the confidence intervals.