while only unique blow effects were functionally valid for the For the purposes of the nut-cracking task, participants
stone-flaking task. In other words, the way in which the elemen- showed a strong preference for power grips (notably the
tary actions were combined to fulfil task objectives was not spherical power grip), while firm precision grips were
comparable across tasks. employed in stone-flaking with more or less equal preference
Our fourth and last postulate examined relative ability for three-jaw-chuck, baseball and buttressed-pad-to-side

across nut-cracking and stone-flaking activities with regard grips (cf. [6]). Interestingly, strong preference for firm


precision grips in stone-knapping was observed to be the case ability to remove stone flakes is more complex and regulation | 10 |

even for subjects of the untrained group who possessed no of these parameters is dependent upon training and experience.
prior knowledge regarding the technique. The fact that no prior experience is required for success in a
Marzke [42] refers to the hominid ability for precision the nut-cracking task provides a clear indication that adult s
grips as a ‘significant element of the hand/brain/tool com- human subjects are generally capable of managing the a
plex’ (p. 91). Indeed, it is difficult to deny that the specific hammer stone velocity to generate a desired amount of kin- = 2
morphology of the human hand permits a unique capacity etic energy at the moment of impact. It also indicates that 5
for dexterous interaction with the environment. Regarding delivery of a strike to a reasonably precise location and along =
stone-knapping capacities, Marzke contends that even a desired trajectory poses no significant challenge for this =
though stone-knapping tasks may be possible using power population. What (or which) aspect(s) of the stone-flaking “2
grips, the use of firm precision grips facilitates stone flake task then account for the strong effect of experience upon ©
production to such an extent that it is difficult to conceive task performance? Logically, the relative difficulty must be = -
this activity becoming habitual without this prehensile ability due to the additional parameter which must be satisfied =
[42]. Following a similar logic, we would suggest that the (i.e. the direction of the strike with respect to the external =
spontaneous (and rapid) selection of firm precision grips in angle), and by extension its relationship to the other parameters -