collagen is the main component, while type I is prominent in joint condition, estimated to affect several hundred million
most other tissues, with elastin abundant in elastic cartilage. patients worldwide and more than 40% of people over 70
The fibrillary assembly of collagen is fine-tuned by other fibril- years of age [6]. Primary osteoarthritis is generally associated
lary collagens, e.g. type XI with type II collagen and molecules with ageing and the ‘wear and tear’ of life but not everyone
from the small leucin rich repeat protein family, i.e. decorine, gets it—not even the very old—which means that OA is a disease
fibomoduline, as well as the matrillins and thrombospondins. and not a result of ageing. The disease is characterized by carti-
The major non-protein components of hyaline cartilage are lage degradation, formation of osteophytes and subchondral
the proteoglycans that are also present in high loading struc- sclerosis that leads to joint destruction and severe impairment
tures like the aorta. The major proteoglycan in cartilage is of mobility. The OA disease causes a burden to society and the
aggrecan that is aided in its assembly into large molecules by healthcare system (30% of healthcare costs in the USA), but
the polysaccaride hyaluronan [4]. It is generally appreciated despite the increase in knowledge in medical science no drug-
that the cartilage matrix proteoglycan is constantly turned based disease modifying therapy exists [7], basically because
over with a long half-life for the collagen fibres (decades) and of the facts that (i) the disease process stretches over decades,
for a long time it was an established fact in the textbooks (ii) no biological markers able to monitor the early stages and
(e.g. in the 1937 Textbook of Histology by E. E. Hewer) that in the progression of OA exist and (iii) no specific drug target
the mature state the chondrocytes do not divide and thus are and disease mechanism have been identified.

unable to regenerate themselves and, even more unlikely, Secondary osteoarthritis, caused by joint trauma, tends to
repair a damaged tissue. Furthermore, the chondrocytes have develop relatively early in life, typically 10 or more years

a very low metabolism and cartilage is unable to respond by after a specific cause and approximately 5% of the population


periosteal flap \
taken from