public health interventions and it is estimated that between evolution by natural selection independently of Charles
2 and 3 million children in developing countries are spared Darwin, was deeply opposed to compulsory vaccination
from death every year [54]. In the 1990s, six vaccines were [63]. Eventually, in 1898, a new UK law was passed which
included in routine paediatric immunization programmes in permitted conscientious objectors [64].
many countries, and that number has increased to sixteen Early developments in testing immunization procedures
today. But we recognize that the full impact of vaccination may appear high-handed by modern standards, such as
has not been achieved, and major efforts are being made to the variolation of prisoners and of orphan children descri-
develop vaccines against other diseases [55,56]. Equally bed in Sloane’s paper. The ‘experiment’ conducted in
important is the ongoing effort to make those vaccines avail- 1796 by Jenner, by vaccinating and then variolating an 8
able to all people of need around the world [54]. However, year old child may seem at first sight unethical today. How-
the development of preventive vaccines against the three lar- ever, children stood to benefit the most from vaccination
gest infectious killer diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and and the challenge with smallpox ‘material’ (variolation) was
tuberculosis) remains a challenge that will require a com- in fact the ‘gold’ standard of smallpox prevention at that
mitted and continued effort towards the development of time [65].
new scientific paradigms [57,58]. Nonetheless, there continues to be a dilemma between
Since Jenner, the development of vaccines has been based the huge benefit of herd immunity for the population
on the re-creation of the protective immunity that results after at large and the occasional deleterious side effect of vacci-
natural infections. Novel vaccines against persistent infec- nation in the rare individual, a matter of concern and
tions may have to be ‘better than nature’, inducing the liability for the pharmaceutical companies that produce vac-
unnatural immune responses that nature has not learned to cines. Moreover, there is still a sizeable anti-vaccination
produce [56]. The power of vaccines is also being applied movement today [62]. The 0.3% mortality from variola-
not only to prevent but also to treat diseases, such as tion in Sloane’s time was considered to be worth the
cancer [59] and AIDS [60]. Moreover, vaccination is being risk, and the seriously adverse side effects of modern
explored as a measure to prevent non-infectious conditions, vaccines are far fewer; yet we recently witnessed how the
such as heroin and tobacco addictions [61]. The legacy of entirely spurious scare of autism resulting from measles,