population living in the Western Ghats in South India, pri- most recent honey-collecting event was administered to 90%
marily in the state of Karnataka, where they number about of males and a random sample of 25% of females in five
30.000 [42]. Around the area of Kodagu, many Jenu Kuruba villages. The current analysis is based on a sample of 109
live in the dry deciduous tropical forest, where they comp- honey-collecting trips reported by individuals aged 7-70
lement household cultivation and wage labour on local years old. Information was recorded regarding the number
coffee estates with seasonal collection of forest produce, of group members, their sex, their juvenile/adult status (less
including wild honey. K.D. worked in a cluster of five vil- than 16 versus 16 years and older), the type of honey col-
lages located 1-3 km inside the Reserve Forest. About 500 lected, the reporting individual’s principal role (making
people live in these villages and have the right to collect smoke, cutting combs, assisting or observing) and the value
honey for consumption and sale. from sale of the honey in rupees (perceived to be more accu-

Four types of wild honeybees migrate to Kodagu just before rately recalled than estimates of mass). A lack of double-
the monsoons in May and November. Individuals collect honey reporting honey-collecting events was inferred from the fact
from all four types of bees, but only the two largest produce that the composition of each reported group was unique.
honey in sufficient quantities to turn a reliable profit. The Skill requirements for honey-collecting tasks and bee types
giant Asian honeybee, known locally as hejjenu (Apis dorsata), were assessed qualitatively through ethnographic observation
makes exposed combs that hang high in trees from sturdy and discussion with study participants.

branches. Honey collectors must climb up to the combs, use
smoky torches to pacify the bees, then lower the honey to the
ground with the aid of baskets. Jenu Kuruba report that
this is best accomplished in groups of at least three people
to allow a division of labour. Giant Asian bee combs can
yield up to 30 kg of honey, which is sold for 60-80 rupees
