isms face, that of identifying their middle at the right time to membrane is lipoprotein, which is dealt with in the next
ensure the even segregation of genetic and cellular material at review [12]. The authors highlight how lipoproteins can be
cell division [4]. The following article covers how proteins displayed on the surface of bacteria. Finally, we deal with
move across the cytoplasmic membrane, so that the cell envel- structures that span the cell envelope, including the rotary
ope can be built [5]. Peptidoglycan cell wall composition and motor of the bacterial flagellum and the related injectisome of
assembly are then dealt with in the two following reviews the type III secretion system [13], and the type VI secretion
[6,7]. The next five articles deal with the problems associa- system used by bacteria to kill each other during inter- and
ted with building the outer membrane. In contrast to the intraspecies competition [14].

cytoplasmic membrane, the outer membrane is asymmetric, Given the rate of progress in understanding the bacterial
composed of an inner leaflet of phospholipids and an outer leaf- cell envelope since van Leeuwenhoek’s time, we can only
let of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Another key difference is the imagine what the next 350 years will bring. Already, single
fact that the outer membrane is devoid of an energy source. ribosomes can be resolved almost at atomic resolution in bac-
All these features mean that building and maintaining the teria! The forthcoming decades will undoubtedly furnish us
outer membrane has been until recently a puzzle. The five with ever more detailed knowledge of how the structures
reviews within the theme issue reflect the huge advances of the cell envelope are built, maintained and regulated,
that have been made and tackle complementary aspects of which will ultimately allow their exploitation as much
this problem: these include building LPS at the cytoplasmic needed new targets for antibiotic therapy and biomaterials.

membrane, and transporting it across the periplasm and then

inserting it into the outer membrane [8,9]; the following

two articles deal with the folding and insertion of the major Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.
proteins in the outer membrane, which are almost all B-barrels Funding. We received no funding for this study.