research from other small-scale societies shows an increasing leaders, leadership and political factions emerge and stabilize
concave down relationship between age and skill [86]. Two within social settings.

possible reasons for the lack of a relationship between age
and competency in Dominican bay oil distillation include:

(i) low costs to learning and (ii) occupational change throughout (i) Peru

the life course (e.g. from fishing to bay oil production to carpen- The lack of formal punishment of free riders in this com-
try), which can affect the age at which individuals first engage munity coupled with the fact that HHs benefit equally from
in bay oil production. Determining whether one or the other the fruits of CA appears to be, at first glance, a recipe for a
better captures variance in this relationship requires further tragedy of the commons. The success of CA in Pucucanchita
investigation. Finally, the level of agreement between individ- in the face of these challenges hinges on the fact that CA tasks
uals who rated others varied considerably, with people in involve the same agricultural work that HHs must recruit
greater agreement on prosocial reputations compared to com- and provide help for. Because CA tasks occur often and
petency reputations. Why this is the case is unclear and throughout the year, they provide up-to-date information
presents both empirical and theoretical challenges to under- about the current status (e.g. health, skill, knowledge, proso-
standing the evolutionary ecology of reputations. One ciality, etc.) of fellow community members. Consequently,
explanation for this variability is that some behavioural signals CA is an arena in which qualities needed in a HH’s social
may be more public than others, resulting in perceptual differ- support networks are signalled and evaluated.

ences in one reputation domain relative to another. Another If the potential reputational and social network benefits of

explanation involves the speed at which information flows CA participation are so important that some HHs allow others
