Measuring costs precisely might be more difficult if they
are often manifested at the physiological level. There is a
rich literature on the effects of early environmental effects
on physiological measures of condition, including telomere
lengths, the efficiency of insulin pathways, organ capacity
and metabolism [94-98], but so far none of these have been
analysed with respect to cooperative investment [23]. Never-
theless, it is also unlikely that variable cost functions, even if . .
measured precisely, explain all the variation in all contexts. 4, When cooperation begets cooperation
For example, it is difficult to envisage differential costs If epigenetic or genetic influences account for significant
explaining most of the variation in individual contributions variation in individual contributions to cooperation within

in the workplace or in public goods games, despite the fact groups, we need to be able account for the maintenance
that in both cases benefits are shared equally. And, it is of genes for high investment within populations despite obvious
difficult to see how key individuals, including war leaders, counter-selection. While variation in individual-level cost—
are able to absorb the costs sufficiently to explain their benefit functions must play some role (see above), we suggest
dramatically greater contribution. that positive response rules could play an important facilitating

role in maintaining genetic variation for variable contributions
(d Synthesis and the role of (epi)genetics to cooperation. Here, we consider three hypotheses that might
We should not be surprised if differential benefit and cost explain when cooperation begets cooperation. These include
functions provide only part of the explanation given that indi- (i) information asymmetries; (ii) coercion and advertising in a
viduals vary genetically and have varied development. biological market; and (iii) changing the shape of benefit func-
Despite large pedigrees, especially in bi-parental care systems tions or allowing individuals to shift their cost-benefit
and cooperative breeders, quantitative genetic methods have functions as a consequence of the actions of others.