via greater valuation of the collective good, a greater share mine other collective action, including those activities
of the spoils, direct payment, or more indirectly via positive necessary for subsistence. The potential costs of not solving
reputations. Among the Tsimane, we found no evidence intragroup conflict are greater than the costs of failing to
that leaders of fishing events take home more fish than assemble any particular collective fishing event or raiding
other participants [1]. Rather, households may contribute lea- party. A similar argument has been made concerning leader-
dership to collective fishing when they lack food, which has ship in highland New Guinea, where the institutionalized
similarity to ‘first-movers’ in non-human species, who act display of material wealth organized by Big Men is rewarded
out of hunger or greater energetic demands [67]. Informal more than ad hoc leadership during war. Such material
political leadership among the Tsimane associates with displays signal to other communities an ability to collecti-
more surviving offspring, due in part to marrying young vely organize in warfare and deter aggression [127,128]. As
and drawing on greater social support [126]. Such support small-scale societies globally become more integrated into
may accrue principally during times of need, such as crop market economies and experience new sources of intra- and
failure [114]. Despite the fact that Nyangatom battle leaders intergroup conflict, there is a tremendous but fleeting oppor-
have higher status and more social connections, they do not tunity to generate additional ethnography on the emergence
have greater reproductive success measured by their of leadership and develop a more comprehensive theory of
number of wives and children [117]. This may be because the causes of institutional leadership.

they are more likely to die in raids than other participants,
thus reducing their ability to obtain additional wives.
The degree of monopolizable wealth in a society and the

seg: . : . : . Ethics. The Institutional Review Boards of Harvard University and
difficulty of inter-family collective action contribute to the ty

University of California at Santa Barbara approved the research