
ATP ADP +Pi

ATP ADP + Pi

Figure 1. Transport of LPS across the cell envelope. After synthesis, lipid A-core oligosaccharide (LPS) molecules are flipped across the IM in an ATP-dependent manner by
MsbA. At the outer leaflet, the 0 antigen is ligated to the outer core to form full-length LPS (not shown). LPS is transported across the periplasm and OM, and assembled at
the cell surface by LptB,FGCADE. LptB,FG form an ABC transporter that uses ATP hydrolysis to extract LPS from the IM and push it along a periplasmic bridge built of
homologous domains in LptCAD. It is unclear whether LptF, LptG or both, interact with LptC. At the OM, the LptDE form a plug-and-barrel translocon that inserts LPS
into the outer leaflet. Structural composition of E. coli LPS is shown on the left. Kdo, 3-deoxy-D-manno-oct-2-ulosonic acid; Hep, t-glycero-v-manno-heptose; Etn,
ethanolamine; P, phosphate; Glu, p-glucose; Gal, p-galactose.

its chemical composition varies among species [2,3]. In fact, present in the outer leaflet, the asymmetry of the OM is
some bacteria synthesize a shorter version of LPS without O broken, effectively creating patches of phospholipid bilayer,
antigen known as lipooligosaccharide or LOS [2]. In addition which allow the diffusion of small hydrophobic compounds
to the lipid asymmetry conferred by the presence of LPS (or into the cell. Indeed, a decrease in the levels of LPS at the cell
LOS) in the outer leaflet, the OM is structurally different from surface leads to hypersensitivity to hydrophobic toxic mol-
the IM in that its integral OM proteins adopt a B-barrel confor- ecules such as bile salts and some antibiotics. Furthermore,
mation instead of the typical a-helical structure of integral IM these studies also revealed that some bacterial species such as
proteins. Both LPS and B-barrel proteins contribute to the E. coli, S. typhimurium and Pseudomonas aeruginosa cannot sur-
unique permeability properties of the OM. Molecules of LPS vive without LPS, while others such as Neisseria meningitidis,
pack tightly in the outer leaflet of the OM and it is thought Acinetobacter baumannii and Moraxella catarrhalis can [6-11].
that the hydrophilicity of its sugars and charges of its phosphates Therefore, it is crucial that, during growth at each cell cycle,
serve as a barrier to small hydrophobic compounds that nor- Gram-negative bacteria properly assemble millions of LPS
mally partition and diffuse through phospholipid bilayers like molecules at their cell surface at a speed estimated as high as