mally partition and diffuse through phospholipid bilayers like molecules at their cell surface at a speed estimated as high as
the IM. By contrast, many small hydrophilic molecules can 70000 molecules per minute [3].

easily cross the OM by diffusing through the hydrophilic For more than 40 years, we have known that although LPS
lumen of porins—integral B-barrel proteins that function as must be present at the cell surface, its synthesis occurs at the IM
non-specific, ungated pores or sieves [4]. As the IM lacks ungated [12,13]. In the past two decades, the players involved in the
pores, entry of small hydrophilic molecules through the IM relies transport of LPS across the cell envelope have been identified.
on transporters that must recognize them to allow their transport This review and the accompanying paper [14] highlight the
into the cytoplasm. Therefore, many molecules that can diffuse research that has led to our current understanding of how, fol-
across the IM (small hydrophobic compounds) cannot easily lowing synthesis at the inner leaflet of the IM, LPS is flipped
penetrate through the OM because of LPS, and many molecules across the IM, extracted from the IM, transported across the
that can diffuse across the OM (small hydrophilic compounds) aqueous periplasm and translocated through the OM so that
cannot easily penetrate through the IM. The fact that these two it can finally assemble at the cell surface (figure 1). This paper
membranes have opposite permeability properties protects focuses on the early steps that take place at the IM in the
cells from many harmful compounds and is one of the major journey of LPS across the cell envelope. The accompanying
reasons why it is so difficult to develop antibiotics that are paper [14] will delve into the details of LPS transport across
effective against Gram-negative bacteria. the periplasm and insertion into the OM.

The importance of LPS in providing resistance against
hydrophobic antibiotics was revealed from studies using
wild-type cells where LPS was removed by chemical treatment 2. Sy nthesis, tra nsport a nd biogenesis of the LPS
and mutant cells defective in LPS biogenesis [4,5]. Collectively,
these studies demonstrated that decreasing the amount of LPS layer
at the cell surface leads to the appearance or an increase of Electron microscopy studies drove the discovery that the
phospholipids at the cell surface. When phospholipids are Gram-negative cell envelope is delimited by two membranes