branch and are a sister group of the Mandibulata. Insects, across bilaterians. However, there seem to be differences in
crustaceans, myriapods and chelicerates together compose the degree of the contribution of the dpp/sog homologues in
the euarthropods. The onychophorans (velvet worms) are patterning the neurogenic region in arthropods. In Drosophila
the sister group of the euarthropods and together with the melanogaster sog null mutants, the DV extension is slightly
latter form the phylum Arthropoda (figure 1). The following reduced [22], while in the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum
discussion of the neurogenesis modules is based on this and in the spider (chelicerate) P. tepidariorum, sog RNAi results
phylogenetic framework (but see [7-10] for discussion). in an (almost) complete loss of the ventral neuroectoderm

[20,23]. Data are not available for myriapods and data from
crustaceans are inconclusive because the only sog gene that
has been identified shows a restricted expression in the man-

2. Patterning regions with neurogenic potential dibular ventral midline cells [25]. The fact that the regulation
In arthropods, the procephalic and the ventral neuroectoderm of DPP signalling has considerably diverged even within
generate the tripartite brain and the ventral ganglia, respect- insects [23,24] suggests that evolutionary variations in the
ively (module A2; figure 1) [11-13]. The size of the regulation of the DV patterning genes and their targets
neuroectoderm differs from a few cell rows in crustaceans might correlate with the different extensions of the neurogenic
and insects to wide areas containing many small cells in myr- regions in arthropods (figure 2). This assumption is further
iapods and chelicerates (figure 2) [14-19]. Data from insects supported by comparative studies of the DV extension of the
and a representative of a basal branch of the euarthropods, ventral midline in Diptera and Hymenoptera [26]. While in
the spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum (chelicerate), show that D. melanogaster and in the mosquito Anopheles gambiae the ven-
dorsoventral (DV) cell fates, including the regions with neuro- tral midline is 1-2 cells wide along the DV axis, it extends over
genic potential, are determined by morphogen gradients 5-6 cells in the honeybee Apis mellifera. This difference is
involving Dpp/Sog [20-24]. The determination and pattern- because of variations in the regulation of single-minded—a tran-
ing of the ventral neurogenic region by Dpp/Sog might, scription factor which is essential for the development of the