problem’. For example, although there are a variety of contexts

in which doing MO predicts seeing MO, and vice versa (e.g. actions?
when infants are being imitated by adults, or looking in a Actions vary on many dimensions and therefore they can
mirror, while repeatedly opening their mouths), these are not be ‘novel’ in a variety of ways. For example, an action can be
the only circumstances in which infants open their mouths. ‘new’ in the sense that it is performed faster than on previous
Infants also engage in MO while, for example, looking at occasions, with greater force, at a new location, or with novel
their hands or at toys, and when their eyes are closed. Would topography, i.e. new spatial relations among different parts
not these episodes, when the infant is doing MO without of the body. Two kinds of topographic novelty, sequential
seeing MO, erode the contingency between seeing and doing, and elemental, are especially interesting in relation to imitation.
and thereby prevent the formation of a vertical association? In the former case, action units, characterized by their topogra-
This is a coherent and interesting objection but it overlooks phy, are performed in a new combination or sequence. For
a fundamental fact about associative learning: it occurs in a example, if I had in the past touched the tip of my right
context, not in a vacuum. When a contingency between two thumb to the tip of each finger on my right hand, but never
events is experienced in one context but not in another—for done so in the order ring—index—middle-little, then this
example, when the lights are on, but not in the dark—the sequence of thumb to finger contacts would be sequentially
more enduring, background stimuli that constitute the context novel. In the case of elemental novelty, a new topographic
are drawn into the learning process; they become part of the relation is formed within an action unit. For example, I might
association itself, or capable of activating and deactivating touch the tip of my right index finger with the tip of my
the association between event representations [22,23]. This right little finger for the very first time.
kind of contextual control is likely to be strong in the case of ASL explains the imitation of sequentially novel actions
facial expressions, because the relevant contingencies—e.g. with reference to horizontal associations, and this aspect of
between doing and seeing MO—are typically experienced the model has not been challenged. However, some researchers
only in the presence of a highly salient contextual stimulus, have suggested that infants can imitate elementally novel
ie. a face occupying a large proportion of the visual field. actions, and that this shows that the ASL model must be wrong.