can be goal-directed, and thereby supports ASL by suggesting as they became more familiar with the testing situation, or more
that complex psychological processes are not required for aroused by repeated presentation of TP [12,13].
goal-directed imitation. ASL proposes that the quails’ imitative The results of a recent experiment with adult participants
behaviour was sensitive to model reward, because, during [44] suggest that the infants tested by Meltzoff and Moore
observation, the sight of the model’s response activated a were responding more vigorously rather than improving their
motor representation of the same response in the observer imitation. In the adult study, participants were shown a target
(by virtue of a vertical association), and this motor activation facial expression, and allowed a series of attempts to imitate
predicted an event that was rewarding for the observer, the target, with explicit instructions to improve their imitative
ie. the sight of food and/or feeding. Consequently, the obser- performance over trials. This experiment used for the first
vers in the model rewarded group learned an R-S* association time precise, fully automated procedures to measure imitation.
between the modelled action and its consequences, which These procedures revealed that adults who were given the task
promoted performance of imitative responses on test. with visual feedback—allowed to see each of their attempts to
Thus, the fact that imitation can be goal-directed, in imitate—showed steady improvement over trials. However,
human and non-human animals, does not present a challenge adults who did not receive visual feedback—who were tested
to the ASL model. under the same conditions as Meltzoff and Moore’s infants—

showed no improvement at all. In accord with ASL, this
outcome suggests that the mechanism that solves the corre-

7. Reason VI: Imitation improves without visual spondence problem does not compute the topographic

similarity between the model’s and the observer's actions.

feedback Adults may have other, language-based mechanisms that
