of in-group preference. Their goal is generally to account for in- norms. The answer has direct relevance for theories about the
group preference by elucidating the psychological mechanisms evolution and development of cooperative norms as well
that give rise to it. In this sense, they operate on a more proxi- as norm enforcement more generally; an affirmative answer
mate level as compared to the norms-focused view’s appeal to would suggest that these two aspects of our psychology were
ultimate explanations, though they can be readily related to subject to the same selective pressures and should be expected
ultimate considerations, a point to which we return below. to co-occur within a normal range of human behaviour [22].
These views frequently begin by pointing out that social cat- The difficulty of reaching an answer, however, comes from
egories, unlike categories in other domains, have a special the fact that most evidence marshalled in favour of the view
relationship with the self by virtue of naming an in-group or is equally consistent with the mere preferences view outlined
an out-group. This special relationship implies a special in the preceding paragraph. For example, being more generous
relevance: the groups I belong to are closely linked to me, towards a novel in-group member could represent the first,
aspects of who I am and where I reside in the social order. Psy- norm-compliant move in a repeated cooperative interaction
chologists have suggested that this simple fact implicates a and thus follow from the hypothesized link between groups
range of cognitive and affective processes that can explain in- and norms. But this same behaviour also could represent the
group favouritism. But critically for our purposes, none of simple consequence of preference, i.e. of being more generous
them specifically implicate the promotion of cooperation. towards individuals you like more.
After all, individuals positively evaluate all sorts of other Critically, there is a family of cases that begins to separate
things that relate to the self, including their abilities, posses- the two accounts. These are cases in which preferences and
sions, friends and even trivialities like the letters in their norm compliance begin to point in different directions. Con-
names; in this context, preference for in-groups merely appears sider cases in which a norm violation is perpetrated by an
to be one part of a broader constellation of self-favouritism in-group member. If, as suggested by the norms account,
(e.g. [15,16]). Indeed, this positive evaluation could, in prin- groups are essentially social structures designed to foster
ciple, lead to ‘mistakes’ in a cooperative context if people cooperation, the violation will be highly salient and objection-
systematically overestimate the cooperative tendencies of able, violating the central compact of group life. This leads to
their group members. Such mistakes would be unlikely to be the prediction that it will elicit greater approbation and punish-