others in action include posterior temporal gyri, inferior par- One camp has manipulated stimulus features, such as what
ietal lobule and inferior frontal gyrus [9-11]. The frontal and an agent looks like or how it moves. The second camp has
parietal responses are consistent with research into the mirror manipulated knowledge cues to animacy, such as whether
neuron system discovered in monkeys, which shows similar an observer believes an agent to be human or not. Both cue
responses to performed and observed actions [12]. One domi- types are of clear relevance to the study of social perception.
nant theory argues that this frontoparietal network enables Humans move in a particular way, for instance using a mini-
action understanding through simulation by mapping mum jerk trajectory, and have a particular form (i.e. head
observed actions onto the observer’s own motor system [13]. above a torso with limbs). Such distinctive physical features
Simply coding the physical characteristics of other agents can be diagnostic of a human presence. Likewise, knowledge
and their movements would not, however, be sufficient to cues also matter for interpreting human animacy. If you
understand the meaning of their actions. It is also necessary know the gorilla across the street is actually a man in a cos-
to make inferences about information one cannot see, such as tume, your perception of the social environment would be
others’ beliefs, desires, attitudes and traits [14]. A third strand markedly different from if you were not aware of this fact.
of social cognition research—mentalizing—aims to delineate In the following, we review behavioural and brain-imaging
the cognitive and brain systems integral to representing such studies that have manipulated stimulus cues and knowledge
mental states of others [15]. Brain circuits spanning the medial cues to human animacy. Instead of an exhaustive review of all
prefrontal cortex (mPFC), temporoparietal junction (TPJ), tem- studies exploring animacy detection, our focus is on brain
poral poles and precuneus are consistently engaged when systems that index the distinction between human and
inferring and evaluating mental states and are collectively non-human agents.

known as the theory of mind network [4,15]. The ability to
draw inferences about underlying intentions helps us to predict . .
what another individual may do next and helps to regulate (c) Stimulus cues to human animacy

social interactions [3,16]. Together, the studies highlighted The majority of research into cues influencing animacy per-