
coupled with some elementary modelling of the empirical (b) Conflicts of interests in the lineage view
features of the social interaction in order to more accurately It is common in evolutionary biology and behavioural ecology
construct a condition for the adaptedness of the behaviour. to talk about the conflicts between the fitness interests of differ-

ent classes of individuals (e.g. parents and offspring). At face
value, a lineage view of fitness could be seen to imply that con-
flicts of interest between individuals are epiphenomenal or

6. Discussion even non-existent. The lineage view does not negate the poten-
Although inclusive fitness is sometimes described as an ‘exten- tial utility of analysing conflicts of interest at the individual
sion of Darwinian fitness’, we use a ‘lineage view’ to show that level; however, it does say that, properly understood, conflicts
inclusive fitness is in fact best understood as Darwinian fitness of interests are not between individuals, but between roles in
averaged over the distribution of different social and environ- an interaction where different genes may come to be expressed
mental states in which members of a lineage find themselves. in different roles. A role is a particular social or demographic
When there are different demographic classes, the expectation context that can be occupied by an individual in an interaction
also needs to be weighted by the relative contribution of each (e.g. parent versus offspring or dominant versus subordinate).
class to the long-term persistence of the lineage (i.e. reproduc- A conflict of interest (in the ‘battle-ground’ sense) between
tive value). While these are well-known points in theory, their roles exists when (a gene in) an individual in one role can
ramifications for interpretation and empirical measurement of obtain a higher fitness only by lowering the fitness of
inclusive fitness remain obscure in the field more generally. (a gene in) an individual in another role. For instance, in par-
For example, it is common to claim (and teach) that inclu- ental care, one can speak of a conflict of interest between the
sive fitness is an individual-level quantity, which is strictly role of the parent and that of the offspring.” The conflicts of
speaking false, as inclusive fitness is an expectation over interests between roles will certainly play a role in deter-
lineage-level properties. Hamilton himself pointed this out mining the evolutionary outcome, and thinking about them