two mutations arise simultaneously in at least two individ- recent social interactions (‘attitudinal reciprocity’, [47]), on
uals that are potential partners of each other: to invest and the general quality of a relationship (‘emotional reciprocity’,
the ability to invest conditionally on the partner’s return 48]), or on general past experience rather than precise counting
investment [37]. Such an admittedly evolutionarily unlikely with each potential partner (‘generalized reciprocity’, [49]) (see
scenario has become known as the bootstrapping problem also [50]). All of these proposed decision mechanisms could be
([37]; see also [38] for some potential solutions). Alternatively, based on the dynamics of learning through operant condition-
several authors have pointed out that mutually conditional ing (or on higher cognitive processes if available). Two field
investments might be rare because non-human species lack experiments on baboons and on vervet monkeys fit the idea
the necessary cognitive abilities to keep track of the outcome of attitudinal or emotional mutually conditional investments
of past social interactions, especially if this involves interactions 35,36]. Crucially, having recently groomed another individual
with several partners [27,28]. increases the probability of receiving his or her tolerance or coa-
While we acknowledge that evolvability and cognitive litionary support. This implies that the return investments are
constraints may prevent the evolution of mutually con- not ‘all-or-nothing’; in fact, although effects that are conditional
ditional investments, in many cases, we do not think that on recent grooming are present both in related/bonded pairs
these explanations suffice to explain the apparent rarity of and in unrelated /non-bonded pairs, they come on top of differ-
mutually conditional investments in nature. The evolvability ent baseline levels for interactions without prior grooming.
argument seems to be based on assumptions concerning Various other experiments (with both positive and negative
gene—behaviour relations that do not apply to species with results; [47,51—66]) and a large number of correlational studies
brains. Vertebrates and invertebrates have been shown to [67] provide additional evidence for such graded mutually
learn appropriate behaviour via classic and operant con- conditional investments in primates. Based on this extensive
ditioning [39]. In the latter, animals condition their own experimental and correlational evidence, we predict that
behaviour as a function of the changes in the environment. graded mutually conditional investments are indeed common
It does not really matter whether the environment is abiotic in primates and will be found also in other taxa.
or an interaction partner, and whether in the latter case the This statement applies not only to positive contingencies
situation is potentially cooperative or competitive. There are but also to negative ones, i.e. punishment, where current corre-