edness), El-Mouden et al. [72] showed that the conditions favouring the evolution of policing are likely to be much more
restrictive. For example, in the El-Mouden et al. [72] model, policing cannot evolve at low relatedness and cannot fully sup-
press within-group conflicts, leading the authors to conclude that, ‘policing may be harder to evolve than originally thought’.

them, increasing their levels of effort only when the dominants relatively common for workers to lay eggs that may develop
were restored [58,61]. Although these studies do not demon- into males (worker-produced males or WPMs) or occasion-
strate that cheating itself should be selectively favoured ally into females [68]. Are reproductive workers ‘cheating’
(or, indeed, that cheating occurs) under natural conditions, and how has ‘punishment’ evolved in social insects (box 2)?
they provide strong behavioural evidence that dominants Although we usually expect cheaters to invade popu-
can, and do, monitor the actions of subordinate group lations of cooperators, it is possible that worker reproduction
members; and that aggression by dominants can induce has simply been retained since before the evolution of eusoci-
cooperation by subordinates [30,6264]. ality (to quote Bourke [68, p. 304], ‘workers may have been
It remains an open question, though, whether punish- selected to produce sons and rear sisters’). In fact, current evi-
ment by dominants evolved as a response to cheating by dence suggests that worker sterility is highly derived within
subordinates, or whether such responses existed before chea- eusocial Hymenoptera and that workers continued to repro-
ters did [26,27]. Particularly in cooperative breeding systems, duce in many lineages long after the evolution of eusociality
where helping is typically facultative, it is possible that domi- [1]. Recent phylogenies could be further leveraged to explore
nant breeders tolerated extra-group individuals that showed how often hymenopteran lineages with reproductive workers
submissive behaviours or provided help, and attacked or are nested in clades in which complete worker sterility is the
evicted those that did not (e.g. [65]). Helping behaviour ancestral condition, and thus whether cheating invades
might therefore function as a type of ‘pre-emptive appease- cooperation at macroevolutionary timescales.
ment’ [34] that propitiates aggressive dominants. In either Much as helpers vary substantially in the amount of help
case, credible threats and punishment may help to maintain they provide, workers vary substantially in how much they
cooperation by subordinate helpers, particularly unrelated reproduce [68,73-77]. A leading explanation to account for
ones; the key question is whether punishment may have some of this variation is worker ‘policing’, which is possibly