ation mechanism (i.e. create an institution), they can coordinate in the to choose their own sanctioning system achieve results close
economic game form on an equilibrium that potentially increases their to the group’s optimum ([28], see also [29]). Field studies R
mutual pay-off relative to the Hobbesian equilibrium (shaded area, see have illustrated how institutional rules, designed by resource we
also [21,24]). The resulting equilibrium strategies are self-enforcing, in the users themselves, allow for the self-organized management =
sense that it is both individually advantageous to follow them when of irrigation [5,30,31], fishing and harvesting systems [13]. ©
others are doing so, and individually advantageous to sanction group mem- For example, in the Spanish /werta irrigation systems, insti- S&S
bers that do not follow them. Although this figure shows a group of two tutional rules specify how much water each user may take at ©
individuals for illustration, the size of the shaded area and thus the benefit a given time, how responsibilities for maintenance of the
of having institutions actually increases with the number of interacting system are shared and what the sanctions are for individuals
individuals. This is because the problems of coordinating on an equilibrium who break the rules. These rules are not imposed externally
without institutions increase with group size [25]. (Online version in colour.) but are created by assemblies of the irrigators themselves,
and indeed have been for a thousand years [13].
fact that there are infinitely many equilibria with some level of Critically, and contrary to cultural group selection argu-
cooperation [21,24]. But many of these equilibria will give pay- ments (e.g. [32—34]), institutional rules in these situations
offs that are hardly any better than the minimax pay-off, while create an economic game form in which monitoring and
others will result in much greater pay-offs. If individuals act sanctioning are not altruistic (sensu evolutionary biology
independently, then they have no means to guarantee that [35]). Rather, field studies have demonstrated that successful
they will coordinate on an equilibrium that gives high individu- institutional rules create conditions that provide direct benefits
al pay-offs, and are likely to settle on the ‘default equilibrium’ (sensu evolutionary biology [35]) to individuals that actively
determined by the default Hobbesian rules of interactions monitor and enforce them [13,14,16,27,36]. As such, in con-
(figure 3). Institutions can resolve this problem, because they trast to altruistic punishment [33,37], they do not require
provide a means for individuals to amalgamate dispersed high genetic or cultural relatedness between group members.
information about resources and wants, and hence coordinate For example, Ostrom describes how extant small-scale
their actions to reach an equilibrium that gives higher pay-offs societies incentivise group members to monitor each other, by
than the default equilibrium (figure 3). By devising rules of allowing individuals that discover a cheater to keep a proportion