Whether this divergence was owing to sexual selection, natural nucleus of the hypothalamus is essential for expression of
selection or both is subject to debate [53], but the critical point is female sexual receptivity [54,55], but also modulates male
that preadaptation (i.e. existing song nuclei) may constrain the mating and aggression [56]. In this issue, Bayless and Shah
neuroanatomical substrates in males and females, so that the [44] emphasize the power of the mouse model to allow for
nuclei remain larger in males, regardless of singing behaviour, targeted deletion or stimulation of specific sets of neurons,
yet other factors could evolve to subserve duetting or female- such as only those expressing the aromatase enzyme or the
biased song. This scenario evokes the concepts of convergence androgen receptor, and thereby disentangling the role of
and canalization, both of which are discussed further below. those specific neurons from their immediate but distinct

While the scenario in birds is particularly powerful, neighbours. This is a powerful approach for knowing that
there are also numerous examples in rodent models where neurons of one particular phenotype in one particular
neuroanatomy and behaviour do not directly align. But this region regulate aggression and mating in males but only
can be attributed more simply to the fact that behaviour is mating in females. Ultimately, a highly refined map will
controlled by entire networks of cells, and one function guide understanding of the neurologic substrates of behav-
of those networks is to integrate multiple sources of infor- iour, but the conundrum of why behaviours vary so greatly
mation. Even a behaviour as strongly regulated as mating both within and between individuals will remain.

in female rodents, which is tightly constrained by hormonal

and circadian factors, is still subject to modification by fear,

anxiety, hunger, etc. Thus, neuroanatomy is the ground (c) Compensation and convergence in sexually

upon which behaviour is tethered, meaning it exerts some . . .
