Differential expression of receptors could mediate respon- Our more recent experiments have focused on steroid 2
siveness to a hormone. Oestrogen receptor alpha (ERa) mRNA receptor coactivators: SRC-1 and CBP are both important for S
is expressed in the POA, VMH and AMY of green anoles increasing AR action [88]. Experiments using homogenates of w
across both sexes and seasons. However, expression is approxi- peripheral copulatory system tissues generally do not support = =~
mately threefold greater in the VMH compared with the POA the idea that seasonal changes in the expression of either gene 5
and AMY. In the POA and VMH, expression is higher in females or the complementary proteins specifically cause an increasein S
compared with males, independent of season [82]. ERB has also responsiveness to T in the breeding season [84]. However, S
been detected in discrete areas throughout the anole brain, with in situ hybridization studies on the brains of adult green
high levels in limbic regions. Females have a greater density of anoles reveal more SRC-1 expressing cells in the POA of gonad-
ER®-expressing cells in the AMY and VMH than males [83]. ally intact males compared with females. In the VMH, males
Collectively, these data are consistent with the prominent role also have more cells that express SRC-1 than females, and
for E2 in female sexual behaviour. However, combined with males exhibit an increase in the breeding compared with the
the fact that T acting as an androgen is the primary mediator non-breeding season. T-treatment of gonadectomized animals
of male sexual behaviour, these data are not consistent with a increases the number of cells expressing this coactivator in
role for ER in seasonal responsiveness to T in males. AR are the POA and AMY, although no differences due to sex or
more likely to play that role. season are detected in intact animals in the AMY. These results
AR are expressed in the forebrain (POA, AMY and VMH), suggest that T selectively regulates SRC-1, and that this coacti-
as well as in the muscles and motoneurons of both the vator may influence the activity of these brain regions
dewlap and copulatory neuromuscular systems [84-86]. important for the display of sexual behaviour. However,
However, patterns of expression are generally not consistent changes in SRC-1 expression are probably not responsible for
with the idea that differences in AR availability regulate sea- the seasonal change in responsiveness to T [89]. CBP is also
sonal changes in responsiveness to T. For example, among expressed at relatively high levels in steroid-sensitive brain
gonadectomized animals in which some were treated with regions. In the AMY, mRNA levels are nearly twice as high
T, greater levels of AR protein in POA/hypothalamic dissec- in gonadally intact females compared with males. By contrast,
tions were detected in males compared with females, CBP expression does not differ across seasons or hormone