more men than women choose to enter certain professions’. differences [112]; another states emphatically that the role of
Rather, the author emphasized that it is ‘about making biology oxytocin in human behaviour is not well understood [113]. Cer-
and medicine relevant to everyone, to both men and womenr’. tainly, if these sorts of misrepresentations can creep into NIH
The ensuing media coverage was both widespread and higher training materials, we can expect them to pop up practically
in quality than the usual. Clearly, close collaboration with the anywhere— including in our own work [13,52]. Training in
PR department can pay off. Authors may even want to take the interpretation and communication of sex differences
the lead in communicating findings to the public; more and should be a priority.

more scientists use social media and blogs for this purpose In this article, I have painted a rather grim picture of falla-
[96,100]. Ultimately, although we all want to share our findings cious headlines appearing in the news every day. Whether the
widely and ponder what they mean, the most effective com- new NIH guidelines actually increase the number of such head-
munications—those that enhance public understanding—will lines depends, of course, not only on the manner in which
stick to the facts and avoid speculations about evolutionary results are communicated, but also on the extent to which the
function or hardwiring. The topic of sex differences is too guidelines are followed. Depending on how stringently
volatile and easily sensationalized to risk doing otherwise. they are enforced, there could be a very different but equally

disappointing outcome. Research is expensive, and not all
researchers are interested in sex differences. When asked to

6. Future steps and an alternative ending increase sample sizes and perform additional analyses, a
The inclusion of both sexes in biomedical research is a necessary majority of researchers may be motivated to rule out sex differ-
and important step forward. Comparing the sexes, and their ences as quickly as possible. In such cases, demonstrating that
responses to potential treatments, will inform not only the the sexes are the same becomes highly incentivized. After a cur-
development of inclusive medicine but also our understanding sory t-test showing ‘no difference’, researchers may feel free to
of mechanisms that covary with sex [110]. The new NIH policy go back to business as usual. Thus, whereas dubious interpret-