Figure 8. Inferred phylogenetic affinities of fossils. Despite the plasticity in the morphological data and/or the imperfection of our models of morphological evol-
ution, the placements of fossils suggested by total-evidence analyses largely agree with the views expressed by palaeontologists (see text for more detailed
discussion). Results are shown for the model assuming rapid diversification, but fossil placements were similar for other informative priors on the diversification
and fossil sampling processes.

uncorrelated relaxed clock model even though there is much independently, and failure to account for this is likely to
to suggest that a significant component of rate variation lead to errors in phylogenetic inference akin to the effect of
across lineages is constrained by long-term autocorrelation, long-branch attraction. The symptoms may include erroneous
and failure to accommodate for this is likely to bias inferred or overconfident topological inference, as well as excessively
divergence times. Separately, we explore more sophisticated precise and biased branch length estimates, both of which
models of rate variation that account for both long-term may be problematic in TED. The grouping of ecologically
and short-term rate variation and their effects on dating the similar but unrelated forms in the phenomic tree
placental radiation [33]. Analyses under such models suggest (figure 1c), and the fact that some fossil placements seem to
that the naive uncorrelated model used in this paper does not put undue weight on highly correlated dental features
fully recognize the rapid evolutionary rate of rodents, pre- (figure 8), could both be explained as artefacts in our analyses
sumably owing to their small body size and therefore short caused by an inappropriate assumption of evolutionary
generation time, which is strongly phylogenetically con- independence among morphological characters.
strained. The effect is that the current analysis probably Accounting for interdependence among morphological
overestimates the age of crown rodents, so that the conclusion characters is challenging, but such work will definitely be
that they predate the K-Pg event may be erroneous [34]. worthwhile given the importance of realistic models of mor-
Another significant source of error in current stochastic phological evolution for accurate dating of phylogenies with
models of morphological evolution is the assumption that fossils. Denser taxon sampling, especially of fossils, might
characters evolve independently of each other. In reality, help to some extent but to really solve the problem we need
morphological evolution is likely to be strongly constrained to get at the correlation structure itself, either by inferring it
by various types of character dependencies. When single or by modelling it in the prior. Methods for learning the corre-