Figure 2. Electron microscopy pictures of: (a) SEM—sepiolite after homoionization (SP); (b) SEM—magnetite-covered
sepiolite (SM); (c) SIM—SM particles covered by alginate (SMA); (d) environmental SEM—ferrogel (SMA particles in alginate
hydrogel). Bar lengths in yellow: (a—c) 100 nm (see short line at lower left corner); (d) 3 um. (Online version in colour.)

coordinate compounds. This behaviour has been extensively observed in similar systems in which
polyelectrolytes that bear carboxylate groups form surface compounds with clay minerals or iron
oxides [17,25,26].

The morphology of the SP, the composite particles and the ferrogels were observed by electron
microscopy (figure 2). The SP particles (figure 2a) show their typical rod-like or fibre shape with
a high aspect ratio: the particle length/diameter is around 1 ym/0.1 1m, although both length
dimensions present a great polydispersion. In the composite particles (SM, figure 2b), spheroidal
granules of magnetite nanoparticles appear attached to the surface of the SP particles. In fact, the
EDX (electron dispersive X-ray) microanalysis carried out in the same SEM microscope clearly
demonstrated the presence of significant amounts of iron atoms: the peaks of Fe had practically
the same intensity as the Si ones. The pictures of the SMA particles (figure 2c) show that the
alginate layer favours a more smooth surface texture than that in the SM particles.

More interestingly, for the goal of the present work, figure 2d shows the microstructure of
the magnetic hydrogel (Ferrogel-1). In this picture, the more brilliant regions (coloured in false
light blue) correspond to the heavier atoms (silicon and mainly iron), while the less brilliant
(brown colour) corresponds to the lighter atoms. Thus, we can clearly distinguish the magnetic
composites (SMA) from the polymer fibres. The particles seem not only randomly embedded
in the polymer network, but also linked by multiple bonds to the alginate chains. This fact
demonstrates the relevant role played by the alginate molecules adsorbed on the particles: both