Note also that the abrupt increase in shear rate at t = 165 Pa is just due to the expulsion of the
suspension out of the gap between the two plates. It is worth noting that some other systems do
not show a decrease in the shear rate but only a halt to its increase, which corresponds to a vertical
line on the stress-shear rate graph; this is the case for corn-starch suspension in water or silica
particles in mineral oil [18]. These different regimes probably depend on the deformability of the
particles and on the softness of the repulsive barrier formed by the coating polymer or ionic layer.

In figures 1 and 2, the rheograms correspond to a ramp of shear stress, that is to say to a
continuous increase in the torque on the upper plate. In this situation, the transformation of
the suspension in a jammed state can produce a decrease in the rotation speed or even stop it
completely. But, if the motor imposes a ramp of velocity, when the shear rate exceeds the critical
one, we expect a jump in the shear stress which will recover, if it exists, the branch where the shear
rate begins again to increase in the regime of imposed stress. In fact, in the suspensions with an
abrupt jamming transition, the jump of stress above the critical shear rate is very high and well
above the rheometer maximum torque. Furthermore, the stress generated is transmitted radially
and ejects the particles outside the suspension [19]. In a plate-plate geometry, the suspension goes
out of the gap, while in cylindrical Couette geometry, particles are pushed outside the free surface
and air enters the suspension, producing a foam at the surface. To get rid of a free interface and
also to have a high enough torque capacity, we have used a high-torque viscosimeter developed
by the CAD company, mainly to measure the viscosity of concrete. We have designed a cell where
the suspension is confined by a Teflon seal (figure 3). To prevent slipping, we have used either a
vane or a double helix as the rotating tool; also the outside wall is serrated with stripes of depth
0.2mm.

This rheometer works in the imposed velocity mode and, in figure 3b, we have reported the