function. This method also makes it possible to construct a solution of a more complicated
problem that takes into account the removal of crystals from the crystallizer, and also the heat
sink or mass source [5]. This approach can be extended to investigate polymerization phenomena
that differ from pure crystallization by the physical mechanism of the process. From the point
of view of the mathematical model, the closest process to bulk crystallization is the emulsion
polymerization phenomenon, which is studied at the modelling level of the dynamics of polymer
particles. This allows us to use previously developed methods for solving the integro-differential
bulk crystallization model for describing the emulsion polymerization. Note that the kinetics of
polymerization of emulsions was previously investigated by a number of authors (see, among
others, [6-8]). So, for example, the process of emulsion polymerization of vinyl chloride was
investigated by Heiskanen [8] on the basis of evolutionary momentum equations.

An important circumstance is the fact that within a certain temperature range the process of
nucleation and growth of crystallites from a metastable polymer liquid occurs simultaneously
with the polymerization process [9-12]. Note that in many cases the latent heat of crystallization
is comparable with the heat of polymerization [9]. In such processes, the effect of polymerization
can become decisive. This is enhanced by the development of instabilities and the formation of
new wave regimes associated with the polymerization phenomenon [13-16].

In this paper, we consider the dynamic phenomenon of anionic polymerization, which
occurs synchronously with the process of bulk crystallization. An important point is that the
theory under consideration is valid for arbitrary kinetic mechanisms of crystallization and
polymerization. The method of solving the nonlinear problem of combined crystallization and
polymerization developed below is based on the construction of a general functional solution
of the kinetic equation for the crystal size distribution function. The balance equations then