Rate-type models for describing the behaviour of non-Newtonian fluids have a hoary past,
starting with the seminal work of Maxwell [28]. This work of Maxwell was followed by the
rate-type models developed by Burgers [29]. A systematic three-dimensional approach for the
development of frame-indifferent rate-type models was provided by Oldroyd [30]. The rate-type
equations developed by Burgers and Oldroyd and others, in general, are implicit models wherein
one has a relationship between the stress and its time derivative and the symmetric part of the
velocity gradient and its time derivative. However, recently Rajagopal [31,32] developed implicit
algebraic constitutive relations in that one has an implicit relationship between the stress and the
symmetric part of the velocity gradient (see also Rajagopal & Saccomandi [33] for a discussion of
general algebraic implicit models). A subclass of such models are fluids whose symmetric part of
the velocity gradient is given in terms of the stress, and a further subclass are fluids referred to as
generalized stress power-law fluids [34] where the symmetric part of the velocity gradient is given
as a power law of the stress. In fact, for an infinite range of values of the power-law exponent,
the expression for the velocity gradient in terms of the stress cannot be inverted, that is, one
cannot obtain an expression for the stress in terms of the velocity gradient. This is made evident
when we consider a simple one-dimensional shear flow. The relationship between the norm of
the deviatoric part of the stress in terms of the norm of the symmetric part of the velocity gradient
is portrayed in figure 1 for such a flow. We note that for all values of the power-law exponent

They, however, recognize that such an analysis cannot be scaled up to infer anything sensible about the problem wherein the
driving force is not small. While they observe that one cannot expect to obtain the solution for slow flow from those for a
general flow by stating that ‘It is plausible that the flow will be slow when a is small. However, there is no reason to believe
that the flow for a small specific driving force can be obtained from a larger specific driving force by a mere retardation’,
the converse that one cannot obtain the solution for a large driving force from a small driving force is even more patently
obvious.