and 13 illustrate these cases; all are taken at a magnification of 45 diameters.
In fig. 12 we see two portions at the bottom, one bright and one dark, joining in a
st straight line, but surrounded by an irregular boundary ; while in the centre we have
§ acrystal with a band with parallel sides running across it, the parts on either side of
® the band being in similar orientation. In fig. 13 (Plate 4) we have a patch including
& various portions of a different orientation, though similar to one another. Some of the
& boundaries in this case appear irregular, but a rather higher magnification shows that
e these apparently irregular boundaries are made up of numerous short straight lines.
g This photograph is also interesting as the etching had not been carried so far as in
> most of the other cases and the etched pits are not contiguous. It hence gives some
© idea as to the manner in which they are formed.
Be Such straight boundaries are a strong indication that the portions on either side
= are connected by a twin relation, and the fact is further brought out when we
examine the geometrical relation of the pits on either side. It has been said above
2 that these pits, which are portions of a cubo-octahedron, are placed in a correct
§ direction to the crystalline axes, and are in fact representations in miniature of what
S the external form of the crystal would probably be if allowed to assume its proper
& shape. Take the case shown in fig. 14: we have two main orientations in the picture,
€. one having pits with a large hexagonal face nearly parallel ‘to, and the other having
pits with a cubic face parallel to, the surface. In the latter case, the cubic faces
5 of the pits have, for the most part, been etched away, and the pits are practically
~ octahedra. If we draw the complete form of the latter, we shall obtain the figure
shown in fig. 6a, the dotted line being at right angles to the boundary between the
Es two parts in fig. 14. Now, if we give this figure a turn of 180° about the octahedral
6 axis marked xx, that is to say, bring it into a position in twin orientation to its