the TDDFT level. Moreover, non-adiabatic effects and nuclear motion are included within the
Ehrenfest formalism. In short, our TDDFT-based Ehrenfest approach consists of the following
steps. Consistent with the spirit of DFT and TDDFT, all properties of the system are expressed as
a functional of the (time-dependent) density, which—in the Kohn-Sham (KS) representation—is
described uniquely by a set on N non-interacting one-particle orbitals. Following the Runge-
Gross theorem [26], the orbitals are propagated in time using the corresponding time-dependent
KS equations, giving access to the electronic density at a later time t+ dt. The density is then
used to compute the Hellmann—Feynman forces acting on the nuclei, which determine the
corresponding nuclear equations of motion. These two propagation steps (electron and nuclear)
are computed consistently using a third-order Runge-Kutta algorithm [27,28]. Owing to the
nature of the process, the ultrafast time scales and the computational costs of the simulation, a
single Ehrenfest trajectory was computed for each initial condition (nuclear coordinates, velocities
and pulse shape). In fact, during the time window of the experiments (and corresponding
simulations), we observe large electronic rearrangements while the nuclear motion, even though
important because it can couple to the electronic dynamics, is mostly ballistic and therefore well
approximated by a single trajectory. It is important to note that despite the use of a plane-wave
basis set, the implementation of the Ehrenfest MD approach does not differ from the ‘traditional’
one based on a localized basis set. For more technical details, see [28-30]. Further, note that
due to the complexity of the system under investigation, we had to restrict our simulations to
classical nuclear trajectories. As a consequence, nuclear wavepacket decoherence effects induced


by initial nuclear quantum state zero-point position spread [31] are not considered in this 8 |
study. The dephasing induced by the nuclear quantum amplitude fluctuations will indeed cause
