have shown previously [34]. Furthermore, the density matrix is written for a two-level system,
such that population inversion is not possible and Rabi cycling would occur, if increasingly
higher orders are included from the cumulant expansion. In practice, the magnitude of Franc!
Condon motion relative to optical bandwidths results in an effective four-level system for most
systems under study, such that laser rate equations can be used to calculate the pumped system
populations. Nevertheless, the results show that with appropriate high field correction, such
calculations still provide a useful and intuitive estimate of the ground state coherence. The
ground state coherence is impulsive and in the direction of the nuclear binding force, which
determines the phase for a given carrier frequency and natural frequency. By contrast, the excited
state coherence is considered to be non-impulse and is purely displacement driven. A typical
situation considers the on-resonance excitation with a femtosecond pulse and laser spectrum that
is narrower than the absorption line width. In this case, the total coherence, comprising of position
and impulse, could, in fact, be minimized. With off-resonance excitation, the resulting ground
state coherence could be multiple times the minimized value. This demonstrates that position,
impulse and phase can be controlled by the carrier frequency, laser pulse power and electronic
lifetime and dephasing properties [34].

An experiment could be proposed to manipulate the ground state nuclear coherence on
ultrafast time scale in a controlled manner, based on the analysis and calculation using line-shape
theory. Firstly, a pulse intensity, duration and laser spectrum is selected that is appropriate to
generate low-frequency vibrational coherence within the dephasing time as well as a significant
hole-burning amplitude. Using the high-intensity approximation equations [34], calculation of
the spectral hole that is generated with pulses that are either below or above resonance conditions
(figure 1) illustrate the result of using carrier frequency as a control parameter. The linear response
theory predicts that while the resulting ground state total complex coherence amplitude |A1,| =