Ethe observed values.
& The Clark cells I have used in the present work are some of the original crystal
‘ecells described in the paper by Professor CALLENDAR and myself, “On the Variation
sof the Electromotive Force of the Clark Standard Cell,” already referred to. These
‘peells have been in the laboratory since 1895, and frequent comparisons made of their
=E.M.F. with newer cells constructed at different times, both by myself and the
‘Eadvanced electrical engineering students. As these cells are the originals from which
=the temperature formulz already given were obtained, the constancy of the E.M.F.
aintained to the present time is a matter of some surprise, considering the severe
treatment they were subjected to during our earlier experiments. They were made
Zin the generally accepted way in a test-tube, and sealed by means of a cork, on the
top of which marine glue was melted. The life of such a cell is necessarily dependent
Son the speed with which the crystals commence to dry, and this fact has been raised
Bagainst the use of moist crystals in place of a saturated solution. I have found
“S however, that in point of usefulness our crystal cells have outlived several cells with
gsaturated solution which were made at the same time. It appears that the crystals
‘Bretain the moisture more tenaciously than the saturated solution does, so that whereas
‘Ba solution may be reduced to one-third of its original bulk, with deposition of
Eerystals, a mass of crystals retains its moisture without diminishing in bulk or
A uncovering the zinc rod. Owing to the dryness of the Montreal climate, the question
of the slow evaporation of liquid from the cells is a serious one. Our cells have been
re-sealed on one occasion by simply re-melting the marine glue, but apparently
without harm except to one (X;), which when left undisturbed for several months
returned to its original normal condition, and is at present as good as the others.
Several sealed cells, inverted cells, and a number of new crystal cells have since