and scattering methods are treated in other contributions in this theme issue. The spirit of my
contribution is inspired by the introduction to this theme issue by Jon Marangos where original
or historic publications are related to recent studies with XFELs.

A number of reviews of photochemical reaction dynamics were published last year as part of a
special issue on ‘Ultrafast Processes in Chemistry’ in Chemical Reviews edited by Thomas Elsaesser
[1], and the contributions by Chergui & Collet, and by Ponseca et al. explicitly address the use
of X-ray methods for probing structural dynamics in photochemical reactions [2,3]. In addition,
numerous aspects of the present contribution are covered to some extent in the books X-ray Free
Electron Lasers—Applications in Material, Chemistry and Biology edited by Bergmann et al. [4], and
Synchrotron Light Sources and Free-Electron Lasers—Accelerator Physics, Instrumentation and Science
Applications edited by Jaeschke et al. [5]. They all build the basis for the present contribution. By
no means can my contribution, and in fact it is not intended to, give a complete account of the
literature on time-resolved X-ray spectroscopy of photochemical reactions with XFELs and the
reader is referred to the references above for an overview of the field.

Here I focus on time-resolved X-ray spectroscopic studies of 3d transition-metal complexes.
3d transition-metal systems are essential in many photochemical processes from photocatalytic
solar-fuel production [6,7] to photosynthetic water splitting with metalloproteins [8,9]. A
mechanistic understanding at the molecular level of photocatalytic and photochemical processes
of optically excited 3d transition-metal systems may help in finding new ways to predict and
control photochemical reactivity and selectivity. In turn, such understanding of the fundamental
chemistry could ultimately help making available new sources of energy.

X-ray spectroscopy gives direct access to the electronic structure locally at the probed site due