extends the ‘probe-before-destroy’ concept from structure to electronic-structure determination

and establishes the concept of ‘probe-before-destroy’ spectroscopy at XFELs.

XAS is a widely used tool to determine metal oxidation states and the case of PS Il is exemplary
in that it can be used to define the state-of-the-art of how to probe metal oxidation states in dilute,
radiation-sensitive high-valent metalloproteins with XAS as shown in the review by Yano &
Yachandra [9]. Using metal-specific XAS to probe oxidation states is tempting: One could think
that the higher the oxidation state, the lower the local charge at the metal. Because with a lower
charge at the metal the core-excited state would be less well screened, the energy required to
perform the core to valence excitation in XAS would be higher. Accordingly, the absorption energy
would be higher for higher oxidation states. This is an interpretation that in principle could apply
and has in fact been applied to both K-edge and L-edge XAS of 3d transition-metal systems.
Indeed, it is well established that the K-edge XAS energies [9,47,88] and the L-edge XAS energies
[88,89] increase with increasing metal oxidation state (there are many more equivalently suited
examples for this than in the references given here).

Owing to the difficulties in disentangling geometric and electronic structure effects in K-edge
XAS, it is favourable to use L-edge XAS to directly probe the metal oxidation state with direct
probing of the 3d-derived molecular orbitals via the strong dipole-allowed 2p — 3d transitions.
Figure 15 summarizes the seminal study by Cramer, de Groot, Chen, Sette and Fuggle et al. on how
Mn L-edge XAS energies vary with varying oxidation state [89]. This series of spectra establishes
a shift of 1.5-2eV to higher energies per unit increase in oxidation state and this shift is now
commonly accepted. Besides the shift with oxidation state the spectra exhibit changes in their rich
multiplet structures which can be used in addition to characterize the metal-ligand bonds [89-94].