the possibility of ever predicting the second variable for Sj [9, p. 700]. There is simply no
way to define that variable for S12, except by a measurement and thus by disturbing it, which
defeats the very purpose of EPR’s argument. This could only be done on S22, by preparing
another EPR pair and performing a complementary measurement of Y on S21, which will
irrevocable prevent us from establishing X for S27. As noted earlier, in quantum physics, due
to complementarity, implementing our decision concerning what we want to do will allow us to
make only certain types of predictions and exclude the possibility of certain other, complementary,
types of predictions. This is what I call quantum causality. In the EPR case, it is only possible to
establish both complementary quantities for two EPR pairs, (S11, S12) and (S21, S22), and never
for one; and if we had predicted the second quantity, instead of the first one, for S12, it would not,
in general, be the same as it is for S72, although predictions concerning them would still be made
with probability one. That QM correctly make these predictions is crucial, because it reflects the
fact that it is a falsifiable and (as things stand now) correct theory of quantum phenomena. This
situation is, however, inherently statistical: if we repeat the experiment for yet another identically
prepared pair, say, (S31, S32), So as to make predictions concerning the position of S37, we can
make such a prediction (ideally) exactly, but the outcome of the measurement on $39, will not in
general be the same as for S}2 or S22.

This argument could be transferred, with a few easy adjustments, to Bohm’s version of
the EPR experiment and spin variables. In this case, too, there is the EPR complementarity:
any assignment of the alternative spin-related quantity to the same quantum objects becomes
impossible, once one such quantity is assigned. An assignment of the other would require an
alternative measurement, mutually exclusive with the first, on the first object of a given pair,

