analogy). When the base flow is taken as the steady jet mean flow, usually found via a Reynolds-
averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) calculation or the steady mean field of a Large-Eddy Simulation,
the Fourier transform of the propagator is time-independent and is a function of the mean flow
field and a vector Green’s function of the ALEE. This approach has proven to be successful for
a number of test cases involving axisymmetric jets at a variety of acoustic Mach numbers and
observation angles, @ ([11], hereafter referred to as G&L). It has also shed light on what impact
jet mean flows have on the far-field radiated sound for both heated and unheated conditions
[12,13]. Any remaining issues then largely involve: (a) development of robust models for Rix and
(b) determination of an appropriate solution to the adjoint vector Green’s function and, therefore,
the propagator tensor.

The present contribution focuses on the propagation aspect of the jet noise problem. We
use the fact that non-parallel flow effects enter the lowest order asymptotic expansion of the
propagator tensor when use is made of the low-frequency asymptotic theory developed by
Goldstein, Sescu & Afsar [14] (hereafter referred to as GSA) that appeared to capture the
qualitative structure of non-parallelism found in the full numerical solution of the ALEE [15].
That is, inclusion of mean flow spreading effects into the propagator solution can increase the
low-frequency radiation by almost 10 decibels (dB) at @ =30° on a high subsonic jet compared
with the equivalent parallel flow solution of the ALEE [8,15]. GSA constructed an asymptotic
solution to the adjoint vector Green’s function to explain this finding by using a slowly
diverging jet approximation in which the jet spread rate, €, is asymptotically small, inasmuch
as ¢€ <O(1) where the propagator is sought at low frequencies of the same order as the jet
spread rate (i.e. w~e€) and is then matched with the outer wave equation solution at O(1/e)
radial distances. Using this scaling, the dominant ‘1-2’ propagator component that multiplies
the ‘1-2’ Reynolds stress in the acoustic spectrum formula (where (1,2) refer to streamwise