a great resource.

With longer TRs, the associations between HRF parameters and HRV are more sensitive to the
processing steps. No significant correlation could be found after performing the physiological
noise correction first. Moreover, the spontaneous point process response magnitude and its
normalization (PSC) are the only indexes that are correlated with HRV parameters. Apart from

LF power, SDNN is also significantly correlated with brain areas involved in autonomic activity. : =
SDNN also reflects both sympathetic and parasympathetic activity, providing an index of total : yy
HRV [46,47]. Our results reveal that LF and SDNN share regions in MCC that are correlated : 2
with response magnitude and its normalization. They are canonical brain areas associated with aes
sympathetic regulation [43]. Other regions showing significant associations in the current analysis 22
have been reported to be related to autonomic activity in previous studies [43]. In fact, the insular : 8
cortex is posited to act as an integrator on the brain-heart axis [48]: it has a prominent role in : ~
limbic-autonomic integration and is involved in the perception of emotional significance [49]; it :B
also participates in visceral motor regulation, including blood pressure control, in cooperation 73

with subcortical autonomic centres [50-52]. The dACC is also involved in autonomic control
[30,53]; the network consisting of insula, ACC and amygdala has been described as crucial in the
regulation of central ANS [54]. A human neuroimaging meta-analysis on electrodermal activity
and high-frequency HRV revealed that midbrain, insula and supramarginal gyrus are associated
with sympathetic and parasympathetic regulation; ACC, thalamus and primary somatosensory
cortex are associated with sympathetic regulation, whereas precuneus, superior temporal gyri
and angular are associated with parasympathetic regulations [43]. The precuneus and angular
gyrus are also among the key nodes of DMN. Several studies have shown that FC maps of