emission and therefore generates a longer harmonic pulse. In HHG, phase-matching is relatively
insensitive to the wavelength of the unconverted light, while the temporal gating is strong. With
the demonstrated generation of coherent bandwidths approaching 1keV using mid-IR laser-
driven HHG as discussed below, we now have a feasible path for generating pulses of just a
few attoseconds duration [93].

HHG phase-matching is most straightforwardly observed in a weakly ionized gas [92]. Before
interacting with the laser pulse, the gas medium is neutral, with an index of refraction for
the driving laser that is incrementally higher than 1; i.e. nj =1+6(w). However, the index of


refraction for the high-harmonic light generated (at harmonic number q) is incrementally less
than 1; ie. Ngw =1—dgo. This is the result of the fact that all the atomic resonance lines that
contribute to the index of refraction are at frequencies higher than the driving laser, and lower
than the generated harmonics. However, when the strong laser field starts to ionize the gas,
previously bound electrons become free, and provide a negative contribution to the index of
refraction of the driving laser. At a critical ionization fraction, the indices of refraction of the driving
laser and the harmonic light match [92,94]. For phase-matching in a plane-wave approximation
(when most of the coherent emission is observed), the intrinsic intensity-dependent phase of
HHG is not changing, and is thus not a factor. This critical ionization fraction is independent
of gas pressure. Furthermore, if a pulse is not short enough, the gas may be ionized past the
critical ionization fraction before any high harmonics in the desired wavelength range are emitted.
Thus, the HHG process is extremely sensitive to the rise-time of the driving laser pulse, but in
a way that does not scale simply—conversion efficiency to a particular wavelength increases
rapidly with shorter pulse duration, up to the point where this target wavelength is generated