usual way. The relative velocities of Na and Cl were thus given the same value,
whether Cu and CrO, or Cu and C,H,O, were used as indicators.*

Besides these experimental indications that there is no commingling of the ions at
the blue and yellow boundaries, there are theoretical reasons in favour of the same
conclusions, provided that the coloured ion is specifically slower than the one it is
following. This has been already mentioned as one of the requisite characters of a
satisfactory indicator. Imagine naturally slow Cu ions travelling behind naturally
faster K ions, with Cl ions travelling past both in the opposite direction. If Cu lag
behind K, or K run away from Cu, a region will be established where cations are
deficient, a state of affairs that must immediately correct itself by reason of the
consequent E.M.F. If, on the other hand, they keep pace with one another, as in
fact they do, it must be by virtue of a steeper potential slope in the blue. If now
some K ion accidentally lags behind its fellows, it will find itself in this region and
be at once hurried forward again ; while any ambitious Cu ion, trying to penetrate

* The precipitates formed across the tube by the meeting of Cu ions with CrO, ions and Fe(CN), ions
are of the nature of the semi-permeable membranes used by TRAUBE and PFEFFER in the study of
osmotic pressure. An interesting fact has been observed with both these membranes, They are first seen
as fine transverse films across the tube, but, if the experiment be not stopped, they rapidly thicken up till
they form dises about half a millim, wide. Simultaneously the galvanometer shows a rapid fall of current,
which becomes almost nil within a very few minutes of the first meeting. If now, or later, the current be
reversed, the galvanometer deflection rapidly goes up almost to its previous value, though the membrane
remains apparently quite unaffected even when the reversed current is maintained for hours. By again
reversing it the phenomena may be repeated, though the current does not now fall off immediately, The