normal KCl were nearly, but not quite, so consistent. These mean values corresponded

* A rather frequent occurrence in these experiments may be mentioned here. It is one which, at first
sight, looks as if it must be fatal to them, but which has been proved to be really unimportant. Flaws,
having the appearance of small bubbles or cracks, are apt to appear in the jelly towards the end of an
experiment. They seldom occur till the boundaries have done most of their journey, and they generally
appear near the centre of the tube. In many experiments they do not appear at all, but when a flaw does:
come it is apt to extend in a rather curious manner. This occurrence of flaws at once causes a reduction
of current, and it is easy to locate their first appearance in the time-current curve, even were it not noted
at the time, as was always done. It has, however, very little, if any, effect on the velocities of the
boundaries ; and the ratio of these (u/c) is absolutely unaffected. It is indeed striking to watch the calm
indifference with which these flaws are treated by the travelling colour boundaries, and to contrast the
behaviour of the latter with that of the galvanometer needle. The facts are explicable on the assumption
that the flaws reduce the current by reducing the value of A, leaving the current density (C/A), and
therefore the actual velocities, as well as their ratio, unaffected. It is obvious that, in such a case, the
experiment must be regarded as finished as soon as flaws appear, where the object is to test the truth of
the equation involving the original, and only known, value of A; but that, for the determination of u/v
(or of p), the experiment may be continued as usual till the boundaries meet. These rules haye been
observed in all cases. The occurrence of flaws of the kind described was noticed by Lovex ((oc. cit.).
Their cause has not heen ascertained. Whether they will occur or not in any given experiment almost
seems to be decided by caprice.


PROFESSOR O. MASSON ON IONIC VELOCITIES. 347
