Emissions of Source Aerosols) have recently been reviewed [29]. Despite clear health impacts
from emissions containing carbon-containing PM, difficulty remains in apportioning responses
to certain groupings of carbonaceous materials, such as organic and elemental carbon, condensed
and gas phases, and primary and secondary material. Another illustration of the variety of
results reported in the literature is a systematic review of the findings of epidemiology, controlled
human exposure and toxicology studies that used apportionment methods to relate sources of
PM with human health outcomes [30]. Among the 29 studies reviewed, soil, sea salt, secondary
sulphate, motor vehicle emissions, coal burning, wood smoke, biomass combustion, Cu smelter
emissions, residual oil combustion and incinerator emissions were found to be associated with
health outcomes. Another noteworthy quote on the subject from Krall and colleagues states
‘Associations with a given PM25 chemical component should be considered as potentially
indicative of associations with another component or set of components with similar sources’
[31]. It is in fact a belief of various commentators in the field that the literature suggests that
various complex mixtures may be involved, and that the capability of PM to induce disease may
be the result of multiple components acting through different physiological mechanisms [32,33].
Efforts continue to tease out which components and sources of PM are most harmful since to
identify regulation targets can better protect human health. Epidemiological studies of sources
are, however, challenging since source-specific exposures (e.g. PM from road transport) often are
not directly measured and must be estimated by applying source apportionment models [34-36].
Using data from the Atlanta Commuting Exposure studies, Krall et al. found that exposures


related to crustal and secondary pollution were associated with decreased lung function among
asthmatic commuters [37]. Findings from another recent study that adopted source-apportioned
PM2>5 concentrations suggest a role for emissions from spark ignition, and diesel vehicles, tyre