Nevertheless, when it comes to numerics, it is not sufficient to only focus on the impact of collision
models on the robustness of LBMs without also considering the impact on their accuracy. The
latter point is investigated for the most stable collision models (SRT-RR, REG-CHM and REG-
K) considering a configuration which is close to their stability limit, ie. Ma =0.5 and v= 10-4.
Corresponding results are plotted in figure 10. The visualization of the normalized vorticity fields
at f=50f, is very satisfying for all collision models—whose accuracy is almost identical. More
precisely, using a moderate resolution of the simulation domain (L = 256 points per direction), the
vortex is properly convected over a long distance, and shows only little dispersion and dissipation
errors. The dispersion error is identified by looking at the location and the shape of the vortex,
whereas the dissipation error is quantified focusing on isocontours of the normalized vorticity.
By increasing the resolution of the simulation domain, e.g. considering L = 512, these errors are
further reduced but are still observable. The remaining dissipation error can be explained, in part,
because v # 0. Interestingly, the fact that LBMs introduce more dispersion than dissipation errors,
as shown by Marié et al. [67], is further confirmed here by the non-circular shape of the vortex for
the finest resolution.

In the end, taking one step back and looking at the big picture, it seems clear that these collision
models (SRT-RR, REG-CHM and REG-K) not only lead to stable simulations for non-negligible
Mach numbers and low-viscosity values but they also allow the resulting LBMs to accurately
transport information over long distances, even if one must keep in mind dispersion issues. Of
course, more numerical validations are required to extensively quantify the accuracy of these
models, for the simulation of finite Mach number flows in the low-viscosity regime. Nevertheless,
these first results are very promising.

