The present survey aims to address recent progress on how the gap between these two
extreme kinds of semigroup stability can be bridged. After reviewing some basic aspects of
exponential and strong stability and, where appropriate, offering some of our own commentary,
we describe an abstract approach to the study of quantified stability for operator semigroups
based on Tauberian theorems for Laplace transforms with remainder terms. This allows us to view
strong stability as an end-point case of quantified stability theory, with exponential stability at the
opposite end. Even though the pioneering work in this area goes back at least 15 years, certain
aspects of the theory may not be well known even among experts. Our main message is simple:
many types of quantified asymptotic behaviour of operator semigroups can be characterized, or at
least described very precisely, in terms of simple resolvent bounds for semigroup generators and
of various related resolvent conditions. Strikingly, the passage from resolvent bounds to decay
rates can often be achieved without essential loss, so that optimal decay rates are possible as long
as one has sharp resolvent estimates. In fact, sharp resolvent estimates are (almost) equivalent to
sharp decay rates. While resolvents have long been used in the study of decay rates, a unified
approach leading to optimal rates of decay has emerged only relatively recently. The techniques
outlined in the present survey are intended to serve as a partial remedy, although they too have
their natural limitations and will not be the optimal tool in all situations.

We begin, in ยง2, by revisiting the classical subjects of exponential and strong stability, paying
particular attention to their connections with other topics in the asymptotic theory of operator
semigroups such as spectral mapping theorems. Then, in ยง3, we turn to the modern theory
of semi-uniform stability of operator semigroups, approached through quantified Tauberian
theory before finally, in ยง4, outlining how the abstract theory can be applied to the study of
abstract second-order problems and thus to energy decay of damped waves. There are many
other interesting and important applications of the theoretical results, for instance, to decay of