system. For example, hydra and planaria can regenerate a whole body from a small part, and
partial regeneration is universally observed in other higher organisms. This fact suggests that
an autonomous system, such as Turing’s mechanism, must intervene. The most direct way to
prove the existence of Turing’s principle is to apply perturbations to a spatial pattern of living
things and observe their dynamic reproduction process. The skin patterns of animals, as well as
those of fish and amphibians, are most suitable for this purpose. In many other experimental
systems, regeneration is difficult to analyse because it involves many complex phenomena,
starting with wound healing [8]. In addition, regeneration occurs only in the very early stages
of development. However, the skin patterns of fish and amphibians can often be regenerated in
adults, and disrupting the pattern does not affect the survival of the individual [2]. Furthermore,


dynamic changes in patterns can be observed without experimental manipulation. In fact, it was
the change in the pattern of the emperor angelfish that first alerted experimental biologists to the
existence of Turing’s principle in living organisms [11]. As for the discovery of detailed molecular
principles, one of the earliest was the skin pattern of the zebrafish to which many molecular
genetic technologies can be applied. [12-15]

Today, Turing’s principle is accepted by many experimental researchers and is used to analyse
many morphogenetic phenomena [2,3]. The recent discovery that the number of fingers in
mice is determined by Turing waves has made it clear that Turing’s principle is involved in
the formation of important structures in living organisms and has increased interest in the
theory [3,16]. However, the importance of pigment patterns, especially in theoretical studies of
morphogenetic principles, does not change, as there is still no system other than that of skin
patterns in which dynamic changes in patterns can be observed in two dimensions. In this review,