po =A+%9,/(p2 —p*).* It is to be noticed that, on a mechanical theory, the
index does not finally tend to unity as the frequency p/27 rises, for when the waves
have ceased to excite internal vibrations in the molecules the ether is still loaded by
their inertia; an exception occurs when the attachment of the molecule to the
ether is such that, when owing to the high period it is not internally vibrating, the
sether does not sensibly displace its centre of mass, in which case the constant A is
unity and there is no effective load on the ether. If we suppose that each molecule
has an attachment to a very large mass, so as to be practically anchored to it in
space, this will require us to take one of the natural frequencies to be infinite in the
above analysis, so that say p, is zero. When both these characteristics are present,
we arrive at Lorp Ketvin’s forniula.t If on the other hand we take the medium to
be like an elastic jelly, permeated by spherical portions of different inertia and
elasticity, the problem is a quite different one, which forms in fact a rude mechanical
analogue of the electric theory; and it was in this way that L. Lorenz indepen-
dently arrived at the specific refraction formula above discussed.

* An equation equivalent to this with g,, 9,....all positive, appears in SeLLMrier’s original paper
(‘ Wied. Ann.,’ 1872), based however on a much more special hypothesis.

+ Baltimore Lectures, 1884; of. also present memoir Part I., ‘Phil. Trans.,’ A, 1894, p. 820. In these
lectures Lorn Ketyin, with a view to explaining true absorption without introducing frictional forces
into ultimate theory, contemplates the molecules as able to take up a vast amount of energy, near
certain periods, before they attain to a steady state of synchronous vibration ; as however that state
must come after at any rate some millions of vibrations, and absorption would then cease, it is
presumably part of the theory that the absorbed energy is constantly being degraded in the molecule