telescope and instrument facilities have increased dramatically. While our ability achieve greater
and greater signal to noise for any given object in the night sky has increased many-fold, the
long-term cooling of the upper atmosphere of Uranus means that the Hy signal received at
Earth is some 30 times fainter in this current epoch than it was in 1992, effectively offsetting
the technological improvements. This makes Uranus a challenging object to observe, and if the
current cooling trend continues, longer ground-based programmes are needed to determine the
temperature of the planet.

Figure 3b also shows the sunspot number which is a direct proxy of the solar cycle. The density
of Hf is driven by the ionization of molecular hydrogen, and so an increased solar EUV flux could
potentially generate increased densities. Whilst high densities in figure 3b do occur during solar
maximum, they also occur during very low solar activity, and no direct trend can be inferred from
the long-term dataset. The fact that the densities are larger towards 2010 onwards than the earlier
measurements is of note, but could be related to an increased calibration uncertainty that can
come with using instruments with narrower slits.

The HST observations of auroral emissions from Uranus [31-33] show relatively weak auroral
spots on the body of the planet, similar to Voyager 2 observed in 1986 (figure 2). Lamy et al. [31]
was the first to coordinate the observations with the arrival of a coronal mass ejection (CME) at
the planet, which likely produced enhanced auroral emission. In 2017, Lamy et al. [33] performed
a similar campaign, but this time adding ground-based imaging at H} wavelengths. Whilst Ht
auroral emissions were not detected, the northern (rotation) pole was observed to be brighter
than the rest of the planet. Since bright emission can be driven by both temperature and density,
determined via spectral analysis, it is currently unclear what drives this enhancement, but it could
be indicative of a homopause at lower altitudes about the pole.