spots with their related ‘orographic’ cloud companions [52,72]. Clouds with some characteristics
of convective storms were observed by Voyager 2 in at least two features. One was in the
interior of the so-called DS2 anticyclone at 55° S, where bright and high altitude clouds developed
displaying rapidly changing morphology (figure 2a-f). The relation with the vortex dynamics is
a challenging issue. This vortex was an anticyclone, but convective storms in Jupiter and Saturn
that resemble the possible convection inside DS2 develop in cyclones [38,47,75]. Furthermore, two
transient bright spots, suggestive of convective activity, were also observed in 2007 in Neptune’s
south pole [76], where the wind profile shows cyclonic vorticity.

Voyager 2 images also showed a complex system of narrow streaks stacked in latitude and
forming the so-called ‘scooter’ at 40° S, extending approximately 3000 km (figure 2g). Their clouds
were deeper than its surroundings but their plume-like structure was interpreted as formed
by updrafts in a region with vertical wind shear [72]. In fact, the latitude band approximately
37-47° S has also been very active in bright spot activity during the last 20 years, as recorded
by a variety of telescopes [77], including amateur observers [68]. These spots with sizes in the
range 4000-8000 km stand out in red and near infrared wavelengths, where methane absorption
occurs, therefore implying cloud tops high in the atmosphere, but their convective origin cannot
be proven with the existing data.

Bright clouds are also found in the South Polar Feature (SPF) (figure 2g) and South Polar Waves
(SPW), apparently permanent cloud systems since the Voyager 2 flyby and located at sub-polar
latitudes (60-70° S) [73]. Both are formed by elongated clouds that display a very stable motion
that has been suggested to represent Neptune’s rotation period. The clouds have been proposed
to be related to a Rossby wave, but where localized convection could occur regularly forming the
small bright spots embedded on it (figure 2h).