Sthrough the solution is a necessary hypothesis, and the idea of ionic velocity is at
-Zonce suggested.
z The facts of ordinary chemical action, as well as those of electrolysis, require us to
suppose that a continual molecular interchange of partners is going on, but how this
.2takes place, whether by means of “ free ions” or by means of the fractional number
2of collisions which the mechanical theory teaches us will occur with sufficient violence
sto bring about separation and possible rearrangement, remains an open question, and
Sone which it is not necessary to consider for our present purpose. The point is that
Ech a motion in opposite directions must occur, and the ions move with a definite
‘gaverage velocity through any given solution. This is independent of any particular
Ehypothesis as to the nature of the active electrolytic molecule, and need not commit
Bus either to the “ dissociation ” or to the “ chemical ” theory.
& In order to explain the facts of “ migration” Hrrrorr (‘ Pogg. Ann.,’ vols. 89, 98,
Eros, 106, 1853 to 1859) supposed that the velocities of opposite ions were different,
Awhich would produce the observed alterations of concentration round the electrodes
according to the obvious and well-known law.
Later, Kontrauscn introduced the idea of a definite specific ionic velocity for each
ion, independent of the nature of its combination (‘ Wied. Ann.,’ vols. 6 and 26),
except in so far as its motion is affected by the different resistance offered by the
different media through which it travels. These differences will disappear at infinite
dilution, and the values obtained by extrapolation then show that the specific ionic
velocities of the same ion, as deduced from observations on various salts containing it,
are, as nearly as can be observed, identical. As it is in examination of this idea that
most of the experiments, presently to be described, were made, it will be convenient
to reproduce Kontrauson’s theory in some detail. The experimental portion of his