Continent, so widely applied to fluviatile, subaérial, and other drift beds, that it is
desirable to avoid a term so variously used, whilst, at the same time, it does not
embrace some of the more important phases of the Rubble-drift.

I am well aware that several objections, more or less formidable, may be raised to
the hypothesis which I have suggested to account for the origin of this drift. A few of
these I may allude to here, though it would not be possible to discuss in these pages
the wide and important general questions involved. Those who hold uniformitarian
views will object to the want of known precedents and to the exceptional character —
of the agency proposed. In this difficulty I cannot share. I must repeat what I
have long contended for,t that it is impossible to suppose that our very limited —
experience—say of 2000 years—could furnish us with standards applicable to the —
comparatively illimitable past. In fact, those that are relied on depend upon unstable
conditions and are liable to vary with every passing century. While admitting the
permanence of the laws of Nature, it is impossible, under the conditions through which ;
this globe has passed, to suppose that at all former periods the effects, which have
resulted from the operation of those laws, though equal in kind, were equal in degree. & |
As in other similar questions, we must judge of the hypothesis not by an @ priori

* A very complete and valuable body of references to, and abstracts of, these early opinions will be
found in Sir Hanry Howorrn’s ‘The Mammoth and the Flood,’ and in his various papers in the
‘Geol. Mag.’ for 1882. It must, however, be borne in mind that the larger proportion of the phenomena
upon which those opinions were based have since been shown to be referable to glacial and fluviatile
agencies, so that some of them are no longer applicable to the conditions as they were then interpreted.
Sir Heyry also adopts an hypothesis somewhat analogous to my own, but based on different grounds,