the subject was exhausted by the early researches of Cuvinr and Marcen pe Serres, for though so
h has been done of late years in explanation of the contents of the remarkable Prehistoric Caves in
tance and elsewhere on the continent, there have been no detailed descriptions of those Ossiferous fissures,
ith the exception of those of Gibraltar (1878), and slight notices of those of Nice (1887), since that of
8 LA Brcue in 1828; nor, with the exception of the short notice by M. Lanza in 1855, has anything been
ed to our knowledge of the numerous Dalmatian fissures since the Abbé Fortis wrote in 1778. In
‘ » the latest contribution I can find is the one by Professor Carrttint in 1879. The recent papers
STEPANI in the ‘Annales de la Soc. Géol. de Belgique’ (1891), on the Upper Tertiary and Post+
poene beds of the Mediterranean Basin barely touch on any of those which form the subject of this
It is the same with the rubble-drift on slopes. Besides the instances I have given in France
860-71), and at Gibraltar (1878), and of the Argile a blocaua in Belgium (1872), I am not aware of
More recent memoirs on this particular subject. The later more general works on the geology
South of Europe and the North of Africa, have added nothing to the facts described by the
writers I have referred to.

contemporaneous deposit of Loess forms an exception to this neglect. The recent literature on
Subject is copious and varied, but it is mainly confined to that section of the Loess which has a
“iatile origin, and is not applicable to that other section which extends beyond the reach of rivers
is and to the greater heights of Central Europe. It is to the latter alone that my observations are
ent confined, and they only relate to a few points.!

‘Should add that I have been obliged, for various reasons, to confine myself in each section to a
a number of the more typical instances. I have not, however, I believe, omitted any cases but
+48 would confirm the evidence of those which I have adduced.—J. P., June, 1893.]
