influence oscillations cannot be trusted due to the limited length of the time series. Since we
are interested in identifying intrinsic magnetic oscillations, long period CP oscillations appear
particularly relevant here since no intensity oscillations are found, as we would expect for opacity
effects. It is worth recalling here that the long duration of our data sequence (more than 3h) is well
suited to the search of long-period oscillations as highlighted by the cone of influence in the plots.

In order to better investigate the relation between intensity and CP fluctuations, it is useful to
study the spatial distribution of their power. In figure 3, we show the average wavelet amplitude
maps in the 3, 5 and 15min bands (each one averaging over a 1 min width). The value at each
pixel in this figure is constructed by taking the time-average (horizontal direction in figure 2) of
the period-time wavelet diagram in each of the three-period bands. Here, we note that CP and
intensity do not share a similar spatial distribution of their oscillatory power. The intensity at all
bands show, in fact, a peculiar circular pattern of fluctuations with long-period oscillations (i.e. 5
and 15 min period) dominating the penumbra and 3 min oscillations concentrated in the umbra.
On the other hand, CP oscillations are mainly localized in a C-shaped region, and this is the case for
all bands. However, from the wavelet diagrams in figure 2, the highest power of the oscillations
is mainly concentrated in the 3 min band.

Regarding the lack of intensity oscillations in the central and upper-left regions of the umbra,
we note that this effect could be due to one or a combination of factors. Firstly, opacity effects, by
lowering the height of formation of the spectral line, allow the sampling of intrinsically lower
layers of the Sun’s atmosphere which, due to the atmospheric stratification, display smaller
oscillation amplitudes. Therefore, in this case, one should expect an increase of the CP signal.
However, this is observed only in the upper-left part of the umbra, not at it is centre, thus
opacity effects alone cannot justify the lack of intensity power. It is worth recalling that the