the time difference corresponding to the measured phase lag at a period of 3min (5mHz) is
approximately 20s, the height difference that would cause such a phase delay would be of the
order of at least 1000 km, which is larger than expected from the results presented in the articles
mentioned above. Finally, we recall that along with the —35 degrees component, two additional
components are detected at 0 and +z, which are likely due to opacity effects. If the height
difference contribution were to be significant, then these additional components should also be
displaced along the phase axis, which is not the case. Therefore, we conclude that, regardless
of the exact nature of the contributions to the phase lag discussed above, the mere existence of
a non-opacity-related contribution (the —35 degree component in the distribution) corroborates
the presence of magnetic-like waves (i.e. fast magneto-acoustic mode in the low-f regime, being
clearly distinguishable from the other two components). Our interpretation is also in agreement
with the results of Houston et al. [62], who have found Alfvén/intermediate shocks at the same
spatial locations. In this regard, given the fact that the coherence patches in the wavelet diagrams

can extend for a few periods, we believe that our results may be interpreted as the signature of : =
the magneto-acoustic fast mode that eventually leads to impulsive Alfvénic shocks which are : =
followed by sudden reversals in the Stokes profiles. 1B

Baker et al. [72] have found by using Hinode/EIS observations that the same active region : =
shows the presence of elemental abundance anomalies on the same side of the umbra. As 8
previously mentioned, the detection of magnetic fluctuations associated with MHD waves takes : 4
on a particular importance for the FIP effect [36]. In this regard, the observations combined with De
the Laming fractionation model suggest a possible link between the co-spatial CP perturbations : Ss
and the anomalous abundances. : S
