
Figure 3. (a) A sketch of the GSPT construction of a homoclinic orbit in a projection of phase space onto the long-scale variables
(uy, v1). The slow unstable and stable manifolds of the origin are denoted as VV?’ (0, 0), the so-called take-off and touchdown
curves are denoted as 7,4. A pulse can be constructed wherever the take-off curve 7, has a transverse intersection with the
slow unstable manifold WV/'(0, 0). (b) The homoclinic orbit projected onto the short-scale variables (u, v2). (c) The resulting
pattern, a localized pulse with clear scale separation. For an in-depth explanation of this procedure, including a construction for
the take-off and touchdown curves, see [47]. (Online version in colour.)

x

of pattern solutions, not the specific algebraic implementation of this shape. Therefore, patterns
obtained by a GSPT construction are structurally stable. This is particularly important for the
connection with biological practice. The fact that mathematical models are, by nature, a strongly
reduced idealization of biological reality, is often a major point of criticism from biologists, who
object that the omission of several biologically observed processes that are thought to play a
minor role, makes the resulting model less reliable. The geometrical construction provided by
GSPT shows that, as long as the resulting response curves do not fundamentally change when
these minor processes are included, the mathematical statements regarding patterns remain valid
for the extended model. We emphasize that the number of model variables plays an important
role in structural stability: extending or reducing the model by including or removing variables
can have a profound effect on the mathematical results of existence and stability. Often, such
extensions or reductions are based on the observation that the associated processes take place on
a different time scale. Hence, the same GSPT techniques can be applied to study the influence of
these model alterations. One striking example of a model reduction that changes significantly the
emerging patterns arise by setting the smallest diffusion coefficient to zero. If the system exhibits