classic single-lap shear (SLS) test which was developed as a means to assess the manufacturing
quality of adhesively bonded joints. Is it appropriate to apply such a test to a relatively new
joining process such as polymer composite welding?

Polymer composite welding refers to a group of techniques in which two or more polymer
composite parts are joined together upon local application of heat and pressure. Welding
processes are typically classified into different families based on the nature of the source of heat.
Thus, there are electro-magnetic welding techniques, such as induction, resistance or microwave
welding; friction welding techniques, such as ultrasonic or vibration welding; and thermal welding
techniques such as a hot tool or laser welding [1]. Common to all welding processes, the
joining mechanism is molecular inter-diffusion of polymer chains between welding partners,
which erases the initial welding interface(s). Polymer composite welding is mostly used for
thermoplastic composites owing to the fact that thermoplastic polymers can be softened and/or
melted upon the application of sufficient heat. However, recent research work has shown that
thermoset composites can be also welded if, for instance, they are provided with a thermoplastic-
rich outer surface [2]. Welding processes are in general faster and more composite-friendly than
adhesive bonding and mechanical fastening, respectively. As a consequence, welding is one of
the main contributors to the cost-effective manufacturing of thermoplastic composite structures,
and as such a key driver for broader future use of thermoplastic composites in, for instance, the
aerospace industry [3].

In the scientific literature on polymer composite welding, SLS testing is the most prevalent
mechanical testing approach for the characterization of the strength of the welded joints. It
is, however, interesting to note that, as suggested before, there is no specific standard for SLS
testing of polymer composite welded joints. Alternatively, researchers make use of standards for