positive wind forecast changes Aw) are only significant and negative in the steep regime for Q1
and Q3. In hour H/7, the coefficients of Aw, are significant and negative in the flat regime for all
contracts as well as in the steep regime for Q1 and Q2, while in hour H18, they are significant and
negative in both regimes for Q3. The negative coefficients imply that electricity prices decline in
the wake of rising wind power infeed, which is consistent with our intuition. No asymmetry in the
coefficients of wind forecast changes between the regimes is observed. We conclude that generally
forecast errors of wind power generation contribute to pricing intraday electricity contracts.

The coefficients of negative solar forecast changes As/' are significant and negative in the steep
merit-order regime, but not significant in the flat regime for contracts in hours H13 and H7. In
hour H18, the coefficients of As/' are significant in both regimes for Q3. In the steep regimes,
the coefficients of As} are at least two times larger by absolute value than in the flat regimes.
This reflects the fact that renewable forecast changes affect electricity prices more severely in the
steep than in the flat merit-order regime. In hour H13, the coefficients of positive solar forecast
changes As? are significant and negative in both regimes for contracts Q1 and Q2. In hour H7, the
coefficients of As! are significant and negative in both regimes for Q4, while in hour H18, they are
generally not significant. The negative coefficients of both negative and positive forecast errors of
solar power production are reasonable: a lower expectation of solar power infeed should increase
electricity prices, whereas a larger prediction of solar power decreases electricity prices.

Generally, renewable forecast changes are more significant in the steep than in the flat merit-
order regime. When the market is in the steep merit-order regime, market participants rely on the
use of more expensive power generation technologies, which puts additional pressure on them to
balance the volatile renewable energies on the intraday market.
