developed in §3 uses a simple form of the kinetic equation when fluctuations in the growth rates
of particles are negligibly small. The presence of such fluctuations is taken into account in §4,

where the kinetic equation has a higher-order and takes into account the ‘diffusion’ of crystals [3
over the space of particle volumes. It is significant that the desupercooling dynamics in both the : =
cases is similar (compare figures 6 and 10a), whereas the particle-volume distribution function is : 5
substantially different (compare figures 7b and 10b). Thus, the distribution function increases to as)
the maximum crystal volume when neglecting fluctuations in the particle growth rates. If these :<
fluctuations are taken into account, the distribution function is represented by a truncated bell- : =
shaped curve. In both cases, under consideration, the desupercooling dynamics occurs faster : RS)
for ellipsoidal crystals in comparison with the evolution of spherical aggregates. As this takes : =I
place, the distribution function is lower and shifted to greater volumes when considering the : Ss
ellipsoidal particles. This behaviour of the solutions is explained by the fact that the surface [8

areas of ellipsoidal particles are larger than those of spherical particles of the same volume,
which means that they emit greater heat of crystallization and more quickly compensate for the
supercooling of a metastable liquid. Let us especially note that when decreasing the ‘diffusion’
coefficient D (or parameter ug) the model with fluctuations transforms into the model without
fluctuations (this transition is studied in detail in [56] for spherical crystals).

In conclusion, we note several important aspects of the development of the theory under
consideration in the future. First, since in practice the bulk phase transitions often occur together
with directional solidification and the formation of a two-phase zone, it is important to combine
the theories of bulk and directional growth of a new phase in a metastable liquid, taking into
account previously developed approaches [59-69]. Second, the present theory of evolution of an