for several consecutive days. The need for longer duration storage will appear more clearly with
penetrations of greater than 70% wind and solar generation ona regional grid—e.g. Fig. 1 from [5].
As soon as longer duration storage becomes available, we will correspondingly need new energy
management strategies. At these timescales, conditioning on forecasts, in particular for weather
variables, will very likely have large impacts on problems of decision making under uncertainty.

Using forecast information in the context of control problems is a difficult general problem
that implicitly appears in many real-life applications. In sequential decision problems, it is often
the case that exogenous forecast information is presented to the controller at regular intervals.
Given the key role of Markov decision processes (MDPs) in the computation of optimal policies
in such settings, a full accounting of the impact of future forecast information requires introducing
the forecasts into the Markov state variable, thereby leading to potential high-dimensional
state representations. Another fundamental issue relates to the fact that the forecasts should be
‘compatible’ with the state variable that is being forecast (e.g. weather), so that the forecasted state
variable (i.e. the state variable for which forecasts are available) and the forecasts themselves
should exhibit self-consistent dynamics. To gain some appreciation for this issue, note that the
s-period forecast must contain information that implicitly ‘peeks’ s periods into the future of the
underlying state space model, so that the s-period forecast implicitly constrains the dynamics of
the underlying model over the next s periods. These constraints need to be built into the joint
dynamics in such a way that the Markov structure is preserved. The preservation of Markov
structure is critical if we wish to be able to compute optimal policies via the use of MDP-based
theory and algorithms.

In this paper, we use the martingale model for forecast evolution (MMFE) as a vehicle for
imposing the appropriate mathematical consistency between the dynamics of the forecasts and