[22,23]. When describing the growth of crystal ensembles from metastable solutions or melts, a
significant deviation from a spherical shape is often observed, especially in biological systems
(the crystallization of insulin and protein crystals). Experimental data show that the shape of
growing crystals is often ellipsoidal. A new theoretical model describing the transient nucleation
of ellipsoidal particles and their growth with fluctuating rates at the intermediate stage of bulk
phase transitions in metastable systems is constructed [22]. The nonlinear transport (diffusivity)
of ellipsoidal crystals in their volumes is taken into account in the Fokker—Planck equation. A
complete analytical solution of an integro-differential model of kinetic and balance equations is
found and analysed. These studies are continued by Makoveeva & Alexandrov [23]. Namely,
three important effects (the shift in the phase transition temperature induced by the Gibbs—
Thomson effects and atomic kinetics, as well as the effect induced by the non-stationary evolution
of individual crystals) on the nonlinear dynamics of particulate assemblages in supercooled
and supersaturated liquids is analysed. This paper confirms the fact that three effects under
consideration substantially change the desupercooling/desupersaturation dynamics and the
transient behaviour of the particle-size distribution function in metastable liquids. The asymptotic
state of the distribution function (its ‘tail’), which determines the relaxation dynamics of the
concluding (Ostwald ripening) stage of a phase transformation process, is also derived. This ‘tail’
is used in the next paper [24], which is devoted to the Ostwald ripening theory developing in the
presence of the simultaneous occurrence of various mass transfer mechanisms: this extends the
well-known Lifshitz-Slyozov theory. It is well known that the mass transfer process includes
different nonlinear transport mechanisms occurring simultaneously at the concluding stage
of phase transformation in metastable liquids. Mechanisms like reactions on the interphase


surface, volume diffusion, grain-boundary diffusion and diffusion along the dislocations should