involves three types of data. First of all, the size of the disordered core and density graphs
revealing the ordered and disordered mass distribution in the capsid are available, for some
viruses, as (CryoEM) cryogenic electron microscopy images. The length of the genome L, the
effective DNA filament diameter d (it accounts for electrostatic repulsion), its persistence length
Ly and the size of the capsid R, are also available for many viruses. In particular, these values
allow us to estimate the bending modulus K3. We also appeal to the dimensional estimates of the
compression and shear moduli of the hexagonal elastic energy, C and B, respectively, in terms of
K3 as proposed in [23]. We explore values for the isotropic modulus v and the surface tension «
using Onsager’s theory of rigid rods [24]. Finally, by finding the optimal size of the disordered
core and matching its imaging value, we complete the selection of the effective coefficients of the
model for a set of four viruses.

Among the most relevant shortcomings of the proposed model, we mention the fact that
the distance, d, between neighbouring DNA segments within the ordered region of the capsid
is not constant. In the case of toroidal domains, this has been pointed out in recent work by
Barberi et al. [25]. Such a distance is also very sensitive to changes in ionic conditions [26].


Incorporating the Lénard-Jones potential used in the latter reference to the present model would
allow us to treat d as an additional scalar variable, coupled with the bending energy through
the constant K3, and therefore having a direct impact on the core size. Furthermore, the ability
to increase d plays a main role in genome delivery, as a mechanism fostering the solid-to-liquid
transition, relevant to a successful infection [12]. A second shortcoming is neglecting possible
defects that naturally occur in hexagonal chromonic lattices as well as ignoring the role of chirality
[27,28]. These may affect the genome’s delivery process leading to potential jamming.