only the most important elements of this method.

The FBM technique, in its classical formulation, applies to an analysis of the behaviour of
a piece of material suspended between two clamps stretching it until it breaks. The sample is
represented by a bundle of fibres with given, stochastic strength. When the applied force is
larger then the fibre strength the fibre breaks and the load it has carried out is spread among
remaining ones. Assuming a given probability distribution of the fibre strength it is possible to
analyse properties of studied material and its behaviour under loading using advanced methods
of statistical physics. Among other things one can evaluate the failure strength, critical properties
of the dynamics for different types of fibre strength distributions and analyse in detail the fracture
and failure dynamics.

From our point of view, the most important fact is that the FBM method is also based on the
discrete representation of the medium by a set (bundle) of fibres. Additionally, when comparing
the FBM method to the DEM particles interaction model used, one can easily recognize that the
FBM fibres are almost direct counterparts of the bonds joining the DEM particles. Almost directly,
because the fibres in FBM and the bonds in DEM have a stochastic distribution of their strength
and both can be regarded as ‘springs’ with given, constant in time ‘spring constant’ but they
are differently arranged. In the classical FBM approach, all fibres span between plates but in
the DEM models the bonds join only neighbourhood particles. However, a chain of connected
particles joining the upper and the lower plates can be regarded as a single ‘fibre’ of the FBM
method, as illustrated in figure 14. In the first approximation, we can disregard ‘horizontal’
interactions between neighbourhood ‘DEM chains’ and consider them as the ‘independent fibres’
with parameters being determined by the bonds contributing to a given chain. This simplification
is a price for transforming the full 3D numerical DEM method to a simplified but analytically