0 01 #02 O05 10 15 20 30 50 7.5 10.0 15.0 20.0 30.0

Figure 1. Average DJF maximum 3 h precipitation accumulation. (2) Maximum values calculated on the original 4 km polar
stereographic mesh and regridded to a 4km latitude-longitude mesh. (6) Maximum values obtained by first regridding
daily precipitation to a 25 km mesh. (c) Maximum values obtained by first regridding daily precipitation to a 100 km mesh.
(d) Maximum values obtained by regridding 4 km maxima to a 25 km mesh. (e) Maximum values obtained by regridding 4 km
maxima to a 100 km mesh. (Coloured areas over coastal ocean regions are an artefact of the plotting scheme and should be
ignored.) (Online version in colour.)

However, this order of operation is not always practical, especially for sub-daily extremes
due to the high computational cost of regridding and/or the availability of the high-frequency
observational data itself. For instance, high-frequency station data may not be made available
by the owners but block maxima or other extreme value indices are provided. In fact, this is the
case for the daily extrema contained in the HadEX3 global land dataset [31] where the stations’
extrema are gridded rather than the stations’ daily values themselves. In this paper, we refer
to such model evaluation results as the ‘non-native grid’ since the observational extremes are
not calculated on the models’ native grid but are calculated either at individual stations or on
a different grid. For precipitation, it is generally unlikely that the extrema at different locations
within the same grid cell occur at the same time. Hence, observational estimates of gridded station
extrema are generally larger than the extrema of gridded high-frequency station data. This order
of operations bias also extends to the case where the observations are on a much finer grid than
the models, as is the case here with the NCEP-EMC hybrid radar station product. Figures 1 and 2
show the observed average winter (figure 1a) and summer (figure 2a) maximum 3h precipitation
accumulations calculated on the original 4km polar stereographic grid but regridded to a 4km
latitude-longitude for plotting purposes. Also shown in figure 1 are ‘native grid’ results at 25 km