nominally flat surfaces, it requires the use of numerous assumptions which cannot be applied
here. The two main assumptions of this model are (i) the summits of all surface asperities have
a spherical shape and (ii) all asperity summits have the same radius [78]. Undeniably, the same
assumptions cannot be made here, as shown by the RMS surface roughness profiles in figure 3.
Additionally, the low Tg of the polymer and the adhesive nature of the latex prevent the model
from being used accurately. Instead, we examined the RMS surface roughness profiles of the
75 x 75m? AFM images of the stock latex films (figure 3, row 3). Each RMS roughness profile
is the average of 512 height profiles taken across the horizontal axis of each image.

To estimate the contact area of each film, we assigned the x-axis (or y=Onm) of the RMS
roughness profile as the hypothetical plane of contact when the PSA is brought into contact with
an infinitely smooth opposing surface. As can be seen in the RMS profiles in figure 3, the portion
of the film which lies on the x-axis is smallest at the highest CNC loading. In fact, analysis of peak
widths indicates that ca 40% of the film would be in contact with an infinitely smooth surface with
0 and 0.5 wt% CNCs (43% and 41% contact area, respectively). Whereas at 1 wt% CNCs, this value
decreases by almost a quarter to 32% contact area. These specific values are of course dependent
on the AFM image analysed; however, as the images shown in figure 3 are representative of the
sample it is likely that a similar trend exists across the entirety of the sample surface.

Drawing a parallel from the nano-adhesion measurements, where work of adhesion increased
with increasing CNC content when surface roughness was negligible, we see here again that the
addition of CNCs improves the tack and peel strength of the PSAs when the contact area of
the film to the adherend is similar. However, the adhesive potential of the PSA is significantly
compromised when the contact area decreases by 25% (at 1 wt% CNCs). Furthermore, at the
highest loading of CNCs not only are the asperities 10-fold higher (ca 150 nm) than in the other