satisfy the requirements of our framework, we propose an alternative approach using quantile
averaging, whereby each quantile of the combined distribution is taken as the mean of the
same quantile estimated by each individual model. An illustrative comparison of equal-weighted
BMA and quantile averaging is shown in (figure 5). For the purposes of our framework, we
found BMA to be unsuitable for the following three reasons: (1) achieving good calibration of
the combined distribution produced by BMA requires optimization of the intra-model variance,
i.e. the spread of each individual model’s error profile. In our case, where each model's error
profile has been learned independently by QRE, and is already well-calibrated, combining these
through BMA produces an over-dispersed predictive distribution due to the inclusion of the
inter-model variance in addition to the already calibrated intra~-model variances. (2) In turn, this
makes BMA rather incompatible with input models that are individually well-calibrated (e.g.
statistical nowcasts), and therefore incompatible with a general framework like ours. (3) The use
of BMA across all models and lead times is complicated by the fact that there are not an equal
number of forecasts available for each lead time. This means that the inter-model variance is
intrinsically inconsistent across lead times, even dropping to zero at our longest ranges, where
only a single deterministic forecast is available (e.g. figure 1). This decrease in inter-model
variance with increasing forecast range trends opposite to the true uncertainty, which intuitively
should increase with forecast range. This is a quirk of NWP forecast availability and one that
probabilistic post-processing must overcome.

Our framework overcomes this instability in inter-model variance by using quantile averaging
(also known as the ‘Vincentization’ method [30,31]) to combine forecasts that are already well-
calibrated for coverage (owing to their QRF error profiles, in our case). Using this approach,
we construct our combined forecast distribution from the quantile predictions of our individual
QRF post-processed forecasts. To produce each predicted quantile of the combined distribution,