literature, data, and software. It can therefore be hard for them to imagine just how different the
process of accessing those resources was even 10 years ago—let alone in the early 1970s, when
the tension between the two camps began to manifest. Possibly as a result of this discrepancy in
day-to-day experience, only a minority across the research community today seem to appreciate
the close ties between FOSS and academia. Exceptions include those who work at the interface
with FOSS, and a handful of others with a specific interest in the topic. For example, few in the
community seem aware that key elements of FOSS emerged in a culture of openness and collective
effort, in keeping with long-established academic principles of knowledge-sharing. Fewer still
seem to realize that FOSS provides the technical backbone of the infrastructure that enables their
effortless access to literature, data, and software (e.g. high-speed networks, responsive search
engines).

In fact, today there is often even confusion among researchers as to what FOSS actually is.
A case in point is the common interpretation of ‘open source’ as ‘open code’—that is, software
for which the human-readable form of the code, or source code, is openly available, with
unrestricted access by all. Misled perhaps by similarity in the name (think, for example, of open
access in academic publishing), advocates of open science have turned their attention to the
software that generates findings reported in scientific papers. In this context, availability of code
is widely regarded as essential to reproducibility of the results (e.g. [3-5]). Therefore, a common
recommendation is that researchers make the software ‘open source’, by hosting it in an online
repository that is publicly accessible (e.g. [6]). And yet public access to the source code is neither
necessary nor sufficient for a computer program to qualify as FOSS.

This paper is aimed at researchers with an interest in FOSS, and specifically in the intersection
between FOSS and reproducibility. To the extent that reproducibility is linked to research quality