The Gaussian distribution exhibits many important properties, but here we shall focus on the
following one: Outliers stand very poor chances of manifesting themselves and, precisely because they
are the carriers of uncertainty, uncertainty is heavily suppressed. Then the numbers indeed speak for
themselves: the probability of finding an event one-sigma away from the mean is about 30%, a
number which goes down to just 4.5% at two-sigma. The demise of uncertainty is dramatic: at
five-sigma we find just about one in half a million and at six-sigma less than two in a billion! This
adumbrates a very comfortable world, where uncertainty has no chances because outliers are
heavily suppressed; fluctuations recede and are absorbed within the mean, an overly powerful
attractor. A comfortable, if somewhat grey, world of stable and reassuring conformity.

The Gaussian distribution plays an undeniable role across all walks of science and society, to
the point of still being regarded by many as a universal descriptor of uncertainty. The truth is that,
for all its monumental importance, the Gaussian distribution is far from being universal. In fact,
it fails to describe most phenomena where complexity holds sway.

Why? Because complex systems, almost by definition, are correlated! When a turbulent whiff
is ejected from the wind-shield of our car, it affects the surrounding air flow, so that the next whiff
will meet with an environment which is not the same it would have met in the absence of the
previous whiff. The system affects its environment, the two are correlated, the statistics of whiffs
(turbulence) is not Gaussian. A similar story goes for most complex states of flowing matter [4]
and complex systems in general.

This is a far cry from the ‘fair coin’, in which head or tail now has no effect on head or tail at the
next toss. In complex systems, the coin is hardly fair. As a result, the statistics of correlated events
is much more tolerant towards outliers, with the consequence of a much higher, sometimes even