scrape up vast quantities of data for which machine learning has proved to be a powerful way
of both processing it and suggesting interpretations of recorded measurements. In subjects where
the level of theoretical understanding is deep, it is deemed aberrant to ignore it all and resort to
collecting data in a blind manner. Yet, this is precisely what is advocated in the less theoretically
grounded disciplines of biology and medicine, let alone social sciences and economics. The oft-
repeated mantra of the life sciences, as the pursuit of ‘hypothesis driven research’, has been cast
aside in favour of large data collection activities [7].

And, if the best minds are employed in large corporations to work out how to persuade people
to click on online advertisements instead of cracking hard-core science problems, not much can
be expected to change in the years to come. An even more delicate story goes for social sciences
and certainly for business, where the burgeoning growth of BD, more often than not fuelled
by bombastic claims, is a compelling fact, with job offers towering over the job market to an
astonishing extent. But, as we hope we have made clear in this essay, BD is by no means the
panacea its extreme aficionados want to portray to us and, most importantly, to funding agencies.
It is neither Archimedes’ fulcrum, nor the end of insight.

Therefore, instead of rendering theory, modelling and simulation obsolete, BD should and
will ultimately be used to complement and enhance it. Examples are flourishing in the current
literature, with machine-learning techniques being embedded to assist large-scale simulations of
complex systems in materials science, chaotic systems, turbulence [22-25] and also to provide
major strides towards personalized medicine [11], a prototypical problem for which statistical
knowledge will never be a replacement for patient-specific modelling [7]. It is not hard to predict
that major progress may result from an inventive blend of the two, perhaps emerging as a new
scientific methodology.