which holds both for oblique coherent illumination at the border of the illumination NA as well
as incoherent illumination up to this numerical aperture. Note that most microscopy users use
full-aperture incoherent illumination via a condenser, which leads to a massive loss in contrast
at medium to high spatial frequencies. Only very careful observation shows that by increasing
the illumination NA the resolution limit is in fact increased, despite the apparent loss in contrast.
Abbe’s oblique illumination geometry was in this respect very helpful to maintain contrast. In
fact, the same lateral resolution limit (equation (1.2)) also applies to confocal microscopy imaging
scattering samples. An especially interesting case concerns the case NAitiu > NAget, with the
inner part below NA ge of the illumination blocked, referring to dark-field microscopy. A single
grating with a spatial frequency, just below the limit as stated in eqn. 1.2, will at best cause a
homogeneous image. Contradicting equation (1.2), this grating is, by itself, clearly not resolved
and merely its presence is being detected, albeit being even significantly coarser than Abbe’s
limit. Ultimately this contradiction to the resolution prediction stems from the fact that we have
no access to the phase of the light in the detector plane. If the phase of this wave on the detector
plane (and the illumination wave) is resolved, the orientation and pitch of the grating can be
calculated. Interestingly, more complex samples or more complicated coherent illumination or
detection schemes such as ptychography, structured illumination or using holographic/phase-
sensitive detection/wavefront sensors [4], provide multiple mutually interfering waves to the
detector plane, which can enable us to ultimately obtain the wanted phase information with
other waves serving as reference waves and therefore equation (1.2) can also be regarded as
the resolution limit for NAjjy > NAget. Yet for imaging modalities that just directly observe the
obtained image one may want to replace NAjj, with min(NA get, NAjny) in equation (1.2) as a
practical limit for the imaging of elastically scattered light. It has been suggested [5] to define
the ‘n-line resolution’ as ‘the minimum spacing between successive elements of an infinite array
of line objects such that the lowest spatial frequency component other than the constant term