to coverlets diligently worked with quills with feathers), boxes (from salt vessels to bags) and


Figure 4. How single anisotropic fibres can be built up into macroscopic materials with new properties. Fibres can be knotted :s
(a) arranged in layers (6) that can be stacked in different arrangements (c—e) giving anisotropic or almost isotropic properties. 1G

Fibres can be twisted (/), randomly arranged (/) or woven in two, (g,A) or three dimensions (f).

useful helpers such as the pot scourer (a ball made from rolled-up strips of bark) but also bark
scrolls with drawings on it have been found in the Finnish/ Russian region of Karelia.! The objects
from Karelia show that the resistance and durability of birch bark material in combination with
its pliability made it possible to weave and braid the bark after it was cut into narrow strips.
The advantage of the inner bark material consists in the fact that after processing (watering
and beating), it behaves as a kind of solides souples (Engl.: soft solids) and in some aspects as
an analogue to paper [61]. This is confirmed by the use of birch bark for writings such as in
the Gandharan Buddhist manuscripts that date from approximately the first century CE and are
believed to have been created in Afghanistan.? However, the outer bark was known as a useful
material and even as a construction material: for hundreds of years, North American Indians used
birch bark for their canoes [62], and in Austria an old tradition is remembered where the loggers
used bark as construction material for temporary huts in the forest (e.g. bark huts in Hof close
to Salzburg or in the Salzburger Freilichtmuseum). Current bark use is limited to agricultural
and gardening applications to improve soil quality, as an energy source or as a feedstock for
biorefinery to extract substances such as betulin (e.g. [63]), tannins (e.g. [64]) or lignin (e.g. [65]).
Owing to the use of bark as biorefinery feedstock comprehensive information about extractives,
tannins, polysaccarides, lignin and suberin is available [32,33]. Approaches to use bark in panel