and model uncertainties [6,7]. SA tackles the question of which uncertainties contribute most to
the overall model output uncertainty, in the common situation of multiple uncertain sources [8,9].
The implementation of SA is similar to the forward propagation problem but with a more clever
way to plan and generate samples. In this paper, we will mainly discuss the forward uncertainty
propagation which is applicable to both UQ analysis and corresponding SA.

The UQ analysis of a multiscale simulation is usually implemented using a non-intrusive
method such as a Monte Carlo method [10], polynomial chaos expansion (PCE) [11], or surrogate
modelling techniques [12,13]. By exploiting the computational structure of multiscale simulation,
the cost of a multiscale UQ can be reduced by relying on a family of recently proposed semi-
intrusive UQ methods [14]. In this manuscript, we extend the notion of exploiting generic
computational structure of multiscale simulations to further improve the computational efficiency
by identifying generic UQPs, and then implementing the UQ analysis with these UQPs. In fact,
we propose a series of uncertainty quantification patterns (UQPs) according to the degree of
intrusion and architecture of multiscale simulation. These UQPs provide basic building blocks
for creating tailored UQ for multiscale models. The UQPs are implemented as generic templates,
which can then be customized and aggregated to create a dedicated UQ procedure for multiscale
applications.

The paper is arranged as follows. Multiscale model and simulation framework (MMSF),
uncertainty propagation and semi-intrusive UQ are introduced in §2 as they provide the basis
upon which the UQPs are built. Section 3 characterizes the UQPs and their corresponding
optimization patterns. Section 4 describes the implementation of the UQPs with the MMSF-based
coupling toolkit MUSCLE 3 [15]. Applications scenarios from the field of plasma fusion physics
and reaction—diffusion models are presented in §6.