allowed much more efficient analysis of massive (image) datasets, and large benchmark datasets
were made available on the internet. Highly complex NNs with greater than 10° parameters
enabled a breakthrough in image recognition [8], soon followed by remarkable success stories
in speech recognition [9], gaming [10,11], and video analysis and prediction [12,13]. Today’s NNs
are often deep networks with greater than 10 layers, and the research field which develops such
NNs and the associated methods for training and validation is called deep learning (DL).

The weather and climate research community is increasingly aware of modern DL technologies
and tries to adopt them to solve specific data analysis, numerical modelling and post-processing
problems in the context of NWP. Nevertheless, as the workshop on ‘Machine learning in weather
and climate’ (Oxford, September 2019) has also shown, there are still reservations about DL in
this community. Two core arguments in this regard are the lack of explainability of deep NNs
and the lack of physical constraints. Furthermore, some scepticism prevails due to the fact that
researchers have experimented with rather simple NNs which were clearly unsuited to capture
the complexity of meteorological data and feedback processes, but then extrapolate these results
to discredit any NN application including the much more powerful DL systems. In their review
of ‘Deep learning and process understanding for data-driven Earth system science’, Reichstein
et al. [14] argue that traditional ML approaches might not be optimally suited to address the
specific data challenges posed by Earth system data. They suggest that ‘deep learning methods
are needed to cope with complex statistics, multiple outputs, different noise sources and high-
dimensional spaces [of Earth system data]. New network topologies that not only exploit local
neighbourhood (even at different scales) but also long-range relationships (for example, for
teleconnections) are urgently needed, but the exact cause-and-effect relations between variables
are not clear in advance and need to be discovered.’ As modern DL methods begin to deliver such
concepts, we take this opportunity to expand on the analysis of [14] and explore the applicability