with the history of digital computing itself [1]. The story of these early days has been told many
times (e.g. [2]), including by the pioneers themselves, who worked alongside John von Neumann
starting in the late 1940s. We shall revisit this history below, as some of those early debates are
being reprised today, the subject of this survey. In the seven decades since those pioneering days,
numerical methods have become central to meteorology and oceanography. In meteorology and
numerical weather prediction, a ‘quiet revolution’ [3] has given us decades of steady increase in
the predictive skill of weather forecasting based on models that directly integrate the equations
of motion to predict the future evolution of the atmosphere, taking into account thermodynamic
and radiative effects and time-evolving boundary conditions, such as the ocean and land surface.
This has been made possible by systematic advances in algorithms and numerical techniques, but
most of all by an extraordinary, steady, decades-long exponential expansion of computing power.
Figure 1 shows the expansion of computing power at one of the laboratories that in fact traces its
history back to the von Neumann era. The very first numerical weather forecast was in fact issued
in 1956 from the IBM 701 [4], which is the first computer shown in figure 1.

Numerical meteorology, based on a representation of real numbers in a finite number of bits,
also serendipitously led to one of the most profound discoveries of the latter half of the twentieth
century, namely that even completely deterministic systems have limits to the predictability of the
future evolution of the system [5].! Simply knowing the underlying physics does not translate to
an ability to predict beyond a point.

Using the same dynamical systems run for very long periods of time (what von Neumann
called the ‘infinite forecast’ [6]), the field of climate simulation developed over the same decades.
While simple radiative arguments for CO2-induced warming were advanced in the nineteenth
century, numerical simulation led to a detailed understanding which goes beyond radiation and