
Figure 3. Effect of the elongation of the third dimension (y) on the extinction cross-section of a rectangular prism of SiC of
dimensions a = 672 nm and b = 328 nm, submerged in air and under a constant electric field parallel to the z-axis. The left
plot corresponds to a configuration such that the electric field is parallel to 6 (configuration (a) on figure 2), while the right plot
corresponds to a configuration such that the electric field is parallel to a (configuration (6) on figure 2. (Online version in colour.)

The constraints of mesh generation mean that we have only loose control on triangle density.
Our meshes for the rectangular prism all have densities like in the coarse case of the grid-
independence study of §3ii, or finer. For the third dimension, we needed to choose a value that
represents ‘infinity.’ To achieve this, we studied the effects of elongating the cylinder to the third
dimension. In figure 3, we present the results for two different values of the length in the third
dimension, y = 1344nm (2 x a) and y = 2688 nm (4 x a). We see that as we make y longer, the
intensity of some peaks decreases, due to the fact that they are associated with this component.
Therefore, from now on we use y = 2688 nm. We did not explore larger values of y because of the
limitations imposed by the quasi-static limit model.

To generate the meshes for these simulations, we initially used the open source software
Trimesh (https: //github.com/mikedh/trimesh), but we realized that it was not producing a
uniform mesh and that it was not possible to obtain regular triangles with the functions available
when having a prism. To overcome this, we created our own mesh using Python scripts, and
obtained uniform meshes. We wanted to study the effect of a uniform mesh as well as the effect of
rounding the edges—Rockstuhl et al. mentioned rounded edges as a factor that introduces extra
peaks on the response. We were unable to control the roundness as a function of arc of curvature
or the dimensions of the rectangular prism, so we decided to use the default settings on Trimesh.
For reproducibility purposes, we provide all the mesh files, as described in §3c. Figure 4 shows