genus [4]. (Online version in colour.)

on with Mesonemanna, Mesonemella and Mesonemissa by Ernst Haeckel; Zygodactyla by Brandt or
Rhegmatodes by A. Agassiz which Haeckel quickly renamed Rhegamatella. This madness came to
an end after almost a century when Louis Murbach and Cresswell Shearer were on a field trip to
the coast of British Columbia in the summer of 1900 in the company of Prof. MacBride, of McGill
University. They discovered a new species that they could collect in considerable numbers at the
entrance of the Victoria Harbour, in Puget sound. And the name was easy to choose; a Mesonema
type jellyfish found in Victoria harbour... Mesonema victoria... . but the genus was moved back
to Aequorea a few years later and so we now celebrate Aequorea victoria... the Victory of the Sea,
catchy isn’t it!

While luminescence in medusae was a known fact for nearly two millennia when Pliny in
the first century described a luminous slime from the bell of ‘Pulmo marinus’ (probably Pelagia
Noctiluca) that could be spread on surfaces making them glow, later studies by the renowned
anatomist Spallan (1798) showed that this phenomenon continues after the death of the animal.
The understanding of luminescence in invertebrates came to light when the French physiologist
Raphael Dubois (1887) decided to ‘juice out’ a bunch of Pholas dactylus clams, or common piddock,
that graced him with light! (see below). The juice idea was not lost as nearly a century later Osamu
Shimomura [6] collected bucket loads of Aequorea victoria and purified their light-emitting organs
through a gauze to obtain what they called the ‘squeezate’ [6]. But Shimomura came about this
tiny jellyfish through the bioluminescence route of another unsung hero of our imaging life; the
ostracod Cypridina. This little creature (2-3 mm long) was well-known in Japan as once collected
and dried Cypridina, ‘keeps its luminescence property almost permanently, and it will emit light
again by simply wetting it with water. Because of this property, the Japanese military collected a