system to enhance its response to a stimuli for an optimal noise perturbation [5]. Neurons, such
as mechanoreceptors of the crayfish, have revealed the possibility to use this effect to detect
subthreshold stimuli. Moreover, it has been shown that SR also plays a crucial role in human
visual perception [6]. Thus, different applications have been addressed ranging from signal
detection and quantization [7-10] to image processing [11-13]. On the other hand, by mixing,
through a nonlinear system, noise and a bi-chromatic excitation consisting of two frequencies,
it has been also shown that a ghost frequency, lower than the weakest excitation frequencies,
appears in the system response. This phenomenon, known as ghost stochastic resonance, has
allowed to model pitch perception by the auditory system.

Lastly, it has been established that vibrational resonance (VR) occurs when a nonlinear system
is driven by a low-frequency excitation perturbed by a high-frequency (HF) signal [14,15]. In
fact, for an optimal value of the perturbation, the system enhances its response to the low-
frequency excitation. Therefore, the detection of the low frequency by the nonlinear system is
enhanced by the HF perturbation [16-18]. Similar to the SR effect, it is then not surprising that
VR has been proved to occur in neurons models [19] and in neural networks [20,21], leading to
applications in one-dimensional signal processing. However, contrary to SR applications [6,22],
we must admit that very few studies have extended the applications of VR to two-dimensional
signals [23-27], i.e. images [28]. In this paper, we propose to explore such applications in the image
processing field. More precisely, we address the perception of subthreshold images through a VR-
based detector. We first review some applications of nonlinear resonances in the field of image
processing including visual perception. In this context, we then introduce a detector which can be
based on stochastic or VRs. We also provide the general set-up of our study. Next, we highlight
the limitations of SR in terms of image perception. In ยง5, we introduce a particular perturbation to
show how VR can allow to overcome the limitation of SR. Unlike classical studies which usually