transmission of the scene information by the higher layer of the retina. Nevertheless, they proved
that noise can improve vision in their model at the acquisition process level. More recently,
it has been shown that noise contributes to the perception of images consisting of alphabet
characters by subjects with retinal disorder and impaired vision. More precisely, an optimal noise
level added to images with contrast below the perceptible threshold has allowed the subjects
to recognize better the letters than without noise [49]. However, in many studies devoted to
visual perception, only the sensory receptors of the peripheral nervous system were taken into
account since noise was directly mixed to the image stimuli. In other words, neural processing
at the network level was almost neglected. Transcranial random noise stimulation (¢RNS) of the
cortex has then been introduced as a convenient solution to take into account such level of neural
processing [50]. By performing a visual detection task to different subjects, it has been shown that
exciting the visual cortex with tRNS enhances the detection of a specific stimuli, more precisely
a sinusoidal luminance pattern within a Gaussian envelope in a circular aperture. In fact, the
psychophysics experiments carried out by Van der Groen et al. consisted in finding in which
of two separated sequences of images this specific visual stimuli had appeared. To analyse the
influence of noise, they have estimated the percentage of correct responses in the cases where
noise was directly added to the visual stimuli and when tRNS was used. Moreover, two different
stimulations hypothesis were considered: subthreshold and suprathreshold stimuli. It was only
under the subthreshold assumption that, for both noise cases, the detection performance exhibited
a qualitative similar SR signature. Despite a better enhancement for noisy stimuli than with
tRNS, their experiments have confirmed that under appropriate conditions, noise could improve
perceptual decision-making. Impact of {RNS on visual stimuli perception is still currently under
investigation to establish whether or not noise can enhance human behaviour [51].

c) Nonlinear resonance and dithering