namely Regions II and V, so that they become interwell oscillations. To that end, the amplitude
basins in the (F, t) parameter space for higher values of the F are depicted in figure 11a,b for 2 =1
and 2 = 2, respectively. The first frequency choice has been taken to carry on the previous section
analysis; the second one is related to figure 7d, where for a higher value of the forcing amplitude,
the higher-amplitude oscillations pop up for precisely 2 = 2. In fact, in that figure, for r = 4.5 and
for F > 2, the oscillations amplitude rises to A > 20. Thus, in figure 11, we can see how the light
blue amplitude basin reaches the interwell oscillations.


We conclude that it is possible to enhance the oscillations confined to one well of Regions
II or V, so that they become interwell oscillations when the amplitude of the forcing increases.
Also, figure 11a,b shows that the system’s response for Region II is different depending on the
frequency value. In fact, in both figures we can divide Region II in two different areas: the single-
well oscillations area, on the left, and the interwell oscillations area, on the right. The two regimes
have a clear boundary in the two figures but different critical F values. It is possible to find those
critical parameter values where the dark blue zone finish along with the single-well oscillations,
at t © 2.2 and for F ~ 2.4 in figure 11a and at t ~ 2.4 and F =3.5 in figure 11b.

Moreover, in this last figure, we can divide the interwell oscillations area (Region II) in two
subareas: one in the middle of the figure (the light blue online), where the system reaches the
interwell oscillations and the other one on the right (the yellow one online), in which the interwell
oscillations rise at their maximum value, i.e. A * 30 or more. It can be appreciated, just as we
commented before for figure 7d, that for a certain critical F value the system sensitivity to the
forcing frequency shifts from 9 = 1 to 2 = 2. For Region IV, it was FIY ~ 2, for Region Il it is Fl! ~
5. So, we can say that those critical F, discriminate two different regimes in those two regions: