Figure 11. k — w phase difference spectrum between Doppler velocity oscillations measured with the Narrow-band Filter
Imager (NFl) of Hinode’s Solar Optical Telescope (SOT) in Mg by and MDI in its high-resolution mode (Ni! 6768 A), overlaid by a
diagnostic diagram (thick black lines) and the location of the f-mode (thin black line). (Online version in colour.)

of the signal, i.e. regions of grey (mostly at high wavenumbers) have low coherence. A one-
dimensional (frequency) phase difference spectrum is the result of collapsing (averaging) the
complex crosspower in kj,. As can be seen from figure 11, acoustic waves are practically unaffected
by this averaging over wavenumber, because the dispersion relation for waves above the cutoff
frequency has very little dependence on the wavenumber (only at very high kj,), whereas in the
lower frequency region (v < 5 mHz) the dispersion relation is strongly dependent on kj.

The second and in this context more important reason why the one-dimensional phase
difference spectra have limited diagnostic value is the fact that by looking at only selected heights,
we cannot know what is happening in between these layers and where exactly some particular
effect (like a wave node) might occur. To gain further insight, we therefore calculated two-
dimensional k — w phase difference spectra between successive levels, from bottom to top, for
all simulations. The first step was to calculate three-dimensional Fourier transforms j(kx, ky,v)
for all layers v(x,y,z;,t),i=1,...,M, with M being the number of vertical layers in the models.
From these, we calculated crosspower spectra between successive layers z; and z;,; for all M—1
layer pairs, and from those the phase difference after azimuthal integration in the k,— y plane
(assuming horizontal isotropy). As a final step, we normalized the measured phase difference
between the successive layers to a height difference of 100km, so that they are comparable
in the various models. In the following, we will show cuts at fixed horizontal wavenumbers
ky, =2Mm! and ky, =4Mm7! (cf. figure 11 for a location of these cuts in the diagnostic diagram)
through the three-dimensional stacks of k — w phase diagrams ¢(v, ky, 2), which we will call v — z