interstellar medium [28]. On the other hand, HEDP counterparts of canonical hydrodynamics
instabilities experiments, such as the ablative and classical Rayleigh-Taylor instability (RTI),
or the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability (KHI) [29] are now driven in their turbulent-like regimes
[30]. The seminal RTI occurs at the interface between two fluids when the density gradient and
acceleration are opposite [31]. KHI arises from adjacent fluids streaming at different velocities,
and could also be observed as a side effect on RTI spikes and bubbles at the highly nonlinear
stage. KHI was recently suggested to develop at the gas/gold interface of ICF hohlraum [32]. In
ICF implosions, RTI develops first at the ablation front [33] where it is seeded by capsule surface
roughness and, in direct drive, the imprinted speckles of the laser beams [34]. At the end of the
implosion, the shell decelerates, stops at peak compression and then rebounds. This deceleration
phase is also RTI unstable [35]. This explains the crucial importance of accurately modelling
hydrodynamic instabilities in ICF conditions. Generally speaking, an outstanding question is
whether or not classical turbulence theories apply to hot dense plasmas. In fact, recent theoretical
studies have uncovered novel dissipation mechanisms of the kinetic energy for compressing
plasmas [36]. This has strong implications for astrophysical turbulence, as well as for ICF [37,38].
The recent developments in the field of laser-driven hydrodynamic instabilities experiments are
therefore very rich, and we will try to summarize some of them. This opinion piece is organized
as follows. After some historical perspectives, we report on the most recent findings relative to
hydrodynamics instabilities in ICF in ยง2. Both conventional ICF schemes are discussed, and some
remarks are made on the so-called alternative schemes. In ยง3, the case of turbulence in HED
systems is addressed, from a fundamental hydrodynamics point of view, or with applications for
laboratory astrophysics. The urgent need for improved X-ray imaging diagnostics capabilities is
underlined in the perspectives and conclusion.

2. Hydrodynamics instabilities in inertial confinement fusion