statement made in the seminal paper of J. Nuckolls [39]: <1 kJ of light energy is sufficient to generate
an equal quantity of thermonuclear energy. So the best performing calculations (1D) at that time
predicted a net fusion gain (not fuel gain) with 1k] of laser light (at 1w) directly focused on


DT shells. High gain was predicted with less than 100 kJ of laser energy. It was nevertheless
soon recognized by pioneers in the field that hydrodynamics instabilities were dramatically
underestimated in these early-days designs. In the late 1980s, numerical designs for central
hotspot indirect-drive ignition were made for a Laboratory Microfusion Facility [40] working with
5 MJ of laser light at 3. The Nova Technical Contract and the following experiments performed
in the beginning of the 1990s defined the baseline of the NIF laser [20,41]. In accordance with
the available laser technologies and envisioned costs of a behemoth 5 MJ laser, the laser energy
was downscaled to 2MJ with some margins for ignition. In fact, prior to the National Ignition
Campaign (NIC) [21], 2D radiation hydrodynamics simulations were still predicting high fusion
gain with less than 2 MJ in indirect drive [42,43]. Nowadays, the most accurate 3D radiation
hydrodynamics capsule only simulations are used to extrapolate performances of moderate
convergent implosions with 5 MJ of laser energy [44,45]. One could also note that revisions of
the metrics and definition of gain and ignition known as generalized Lawson criterion [46] have
emerged recently, as summarized in a recent review [47]

This historical background is not a criticism, as the above-mentioned papers were based
on state-of-the art experiments, diagnostics and simulations of their time. It is simply a
reminder that we should always remain cautious when talking about ignition, even more with
commercialization in mind. The same remains true for the so-called alternative ignition schemes
such as fast ignition, either with electrons or protons, or shock ignition. The first phase of any