
If carbon enters the hot-spot, the ion charge state gradient will be reduced by inter-species ion
diffusion. This can be estimated using the model of Molvig et al. [11], in which an initially sharp
interface between a light and heavy ion species will develop through diffusion. The diffusion
coefficient can be estimated as D = 2T;t /Z?/mjMe ~ 0.03 m? s~1, similar to the thermal diffusion
and resistive magnetic diffusion rates. Over the stagnation time t = 100 ps, this leads to a diffusive
scale-length of VID =1.6 jum. This gives a lower bound on the expected scale-lengths 17, 1, and
Ip.

The collisional source term is maximal when Z = 1, giving 6j(1) ~ 0.3, meaning it is similar
in magnitude to the Biermann term. For Z ~ 1, as in the hydrogen hot-spot, this leads to field
growth rate 0.3fT,/(elzlr) ~ 20 Tps}. The collisional source term can be of a similar magnitude to
the Biermann term. In fact, it may exceed it. This is because hydrodynamic motion acts to smooth
the pressure gradients and reduce the Biermann growth. The collisional term has no such natural
stabilization, since it acts on composition gradients which can even exist in pressure equilibrium,
such as in an ideal isobaric hot-spot.

Carbon jets will also have increased Biermann fields relative to hydrogen jets. This is due to the
increased radiative cooling providing a steeper temperature gradient in the carbon mix case. We
also note that the two source terms are likely to be in opposite directions. This is because Vite and
VZ are both towards the centre of the mix region. However, Bj is positive and the two terms have
opposite signs (equation (3.2)), so will be in opposite directions. This may mean the magnetized
hydrodynamics of hydrogen jets are quite different to that of carbon mix jets, since the alterations
to heat flow could be in the opposite direction. For hydrogen jets, the magnetized Righi-Leduc
heat-flow is towards the base of the jet [2]. For carbon jets where the collisional thermoelectric