
Furthermore, we did not find a specific relationship between the habitat of bacterial strains
and their capacity to use the different exudates. As explained earlier, among the 13 bacterial
strains able to grow on the F. cylindrus exudate, only three strains have been isolated from sea
ice samples. This may indicate that a co-metabolism is important to degrade such exudates in
the sea ice environment. Indeed, some bacterial strains could be able to degrade the primary
energy source given by the F. cylindrus DOM in the ice, producing secondary compounds which
in turn would be used by other bacterial strains as potentially the ones which did not grow in
our biodegradation assay. Thus, our results could complement previous observations with mixed
communities where cross-feeding among taxa can occur [73]. However, six strains out of 13 (46%)
which grew on this DOM were isolated at 2 and 3m depth. Thus, it means that 69% of the strains
growing on F. cylindrus DOM were isolated in the ice or in the first metres of the water column.
This is relevant to the fact that some interactions happen between the sea ice bottom and the
water column. The microalgae living in the ice excrete DOM will be used as a source of carbon by
bacteria in the first few metres of the water column. Moreover, these interactions are reinforced
as spring progresses with the beginning of the sea ice melt causing the release of a significant
amount of DOM into the water column, which will serve as a source of energy and carbon for
bacteria [33].

The growth of bacterial strains on the diatom exudates is in part linked to their capacity
to produce extracellular enzymes to degrade polymers. In the present study, polysaccharides
constituted a lower fraction of the carbohydrates of the F. cylindrus exudate (42%) when compared
with the C. neogracilis exudate (68%) (table 2). The incubation of phylogenetically different
bacterial strains with a given DOM source allowed us to determine that the genetic potential
to produce extracellular enzymes, more or less specific to DOM compounds, was a selective