and a fraction of this organic carbon could have been released by bacteria as DOM with a
chemical composition different from the consumed compounds [66,67]. Therefore, part of the
readily available substrates specific for each diatom species was likely used or transformed prior
to the biodegradation experiments. Given the overall low fraction of bacterially processed organic
carbon and exudation being a continuous process throughout the culturing period, we consider
the DOM used here representative of the two diatoms. This idea is further supported by our
biodegradation assays that revealed a preference of the bacterial strains for the use of DOM from
C. neogracilis, the diatom with the longer stationary phase, when compared with F. cylindrus.

We investigated carbohydrates, major components of phytoplankton exudates, to explore
differences in the chemical composition of the two DOM sources. The relative abundance of
carbohydrates in phytoplankton exudates appears variable among phytoplankton species (26-
80% [68]; 6-13% [28]) and tends to increase in the stationary phase [68]. These two facts can
explain why F. cylindrus exudates had a lower contribution of carbohydrates to the DOM
(4%) when compared with C. neogracilis (18%). Polymeric and monomeric carbohydrates were
consistently shown to be used in short-term (days) biodegradation experiments [69,70]. The lower
content of this labile source of organic carbon in the exudate of the sea ice diatom when compared
with the water column diatom could explain the lower number of bacterial strains growing on this
DOM. Carbohydrates are present in high concentrations (80-1300 MC) in sea ice when compared
with the water column in the Arctic Ocean [71,72]. The high similarity observed in other studies


Table 3. Indices characterizing the growth of bacterial strains according to the substrate added. (a) Index 1: distinction between
strains which have shown significant growth using different substrates (in red) and those which have not shown visible growth
(in blue). (6) Index 2: results of cell growth on different exudates expressed in relation to those measured in diluted MB. See the