
The downstream profile of the velocity deficit behind the arrays is consistently related to their
lateral position relative to the South Banks. The deficit downstream from T47 is transported along
a curved path passing over the middle of the South Banks. Deficits downstream from T48 follow a
less curved path and those downstream from T49 curve a little in the opposite direction. The same
pattern can be observed along rows T60-T63, T74-T76 and T85-87. This makes intuitive sense if
the large ebb-flows in this region are understood as acceleration around a blockage in the flow in,
for example, the island of Alderney.

Lateral array location appears to significantly affect the magnitude of the downstream
velocities in some cases. The T86 and T94 deficits are larger than the T85 and T93 values,
respectively. This is related to two factors. Velocities decrease with distance from the Race
Rocks region so arrays situated further west are in fact located further downstream (i.e. T85 is
further downstream than T86). Potentially more significant, ebb-tide velocity values increase with
distance from the sandbank. T86 and T94 are therefore situated in a stream of higher ebb-tide
velocities (than T85 and T93, respectively) resulting in larger downstream velocity deficits.

Energy extraction in T74 can be seen to produce velocity deficits of greater than 0.2ms~* up
to 9 km downstream from the array. Increased flow speed of up to 0.3ms*! can also be observed
to the northwest of the array (over the South Banks), with a maximum increase of ~ 0.5ms1
occurring close to the centre of the propagating eddy. Flow acceleration around arrays is typically
of much smaller magnitude than the deceleration produced immediately downstream of an array.
Flow increases to the northwest of the T74 array are particularly high (compared with typical
flow increases of ~0.1ms~! around arrays in an unbounded flow). This is due to the way in
which flows reinforce the clockwise circulation of the eddy to the south of the eddy centre.