continuous, well-developed chain of progress in the same fashion as the periodic table. It was a
new beginning and Darwin can be credited with giving birth to a new discipline.

The facts that preceded the discovery of the periodic table were the discovery of 63 of the
elements, their physical characterization, including the estimation of their atomic weights, and
the finding that there were patterns in which elements reacted with one another and they did so
in regular proportions—e.g. two volumes of hydrogen reacted with one of oxygen. Sometimes
elements that were very different in atomic weight, such as carbon and silicon, were very similar
in the way they reacted with other elements, leading to earlier proposals for the existence of
groups of elements with similar chemical properties [1].

Dimitri Mendeleev was writing a textbook on chemistry when he sought some organizing
principles for these facts. His efforts were distinguished by his emphasis on using atomic weight
as the criteria for ordering the elements and his commanding knowledge of ‘the natural history
of the elements’ [1, p. 138]. The columns of his table, or groups, included elements that were
similar in chemical properties but with a progressive increase in atomic weight from the top to
the bottom of the column. Conversely each row, or period, listed elements with an incremental
increase in atomic weight from left to right and with progressively different chemical and physical
properties. The elements of each row had higher atomic weights than in the row above, but each
row shared a similar progression of properties along the length of the row.

There was precedent for both the vertical and horizontal arraying of elements and four prior
proposals of arraying the elements in tabular form. Mendeleev’s adherence to atomic weight and
encyclopedic knowledge of the natural history of the elements is what made the difference. His
greatest use of natural history as an added criteria to atomic weight was to serve as a check on