both are logical constructs that were sufficiently supported by scientific evidence to stimulate
further research. Both had some precedents in proposals with similar properties, even though
they differ in the extent to which they are a departure from earlier work. Other tables of elements
were proposed in the decade before Mendeleev. In the same year as Mendeleev, Lothar Meyer
defined a similar periodic table, but he delayed a year in publishing and presented a less well-
developed version [1]. Likewise, Darwin [3] rushed to publication because of Alfred Russell
Wallace’s very similar proposal of natural selection as the cause of evolution [4]. Meyer and others
who proposed tables of elements have, like Alfred Russell Wallace, become historical footnotes to
Mendeleev and Darwin. Both the periodic table and evolution were ideas that were clearly in the
air. Both represent such fundamentally important discoveries that they spawned the development
of new disciplines devoted to defining the underlying principles, but at the same time they had
opposing properties. The periodic table was a logical amalgamation of empirical facts in search
of a theory. Evolution was a theory built on an amalgamation of facts, but evolution itself awaited
empirical verification.

Another point of similarity between the periodic table and the theory of evolution is they were
both predictive but not perfectly so because they were shaped by an incomplete knowledge of
their subject. Mendeleev did not know about the existence of subatomic particles and mistakenly
arranged the first periodic table strictly by atomic weight, which implied that something about
the atomic weights dictated the chemical properties of the element. Decades passed before we
realized that it was the number of electrons in the outermost orbital of the atom that underlay the
chemical properties of the elements and that it was the atomic number, rather than atomic weight,
that defined the placement of elements in the table [1]. Likewise, Darwin did not know the laws
of inheritance and placed undue emphasis on the role of the environment in causing the random
generation of the heritable variation that was the essential foundation of evolution. Nevertheless,