Claims for discovery of element 85 were based on X-rays accompanying radioactive decay.
A sequence that could lead to element 85 from radon envisaged a-decay of 327Rn to 2!8Po,
followed by B-decay to 21885, and emission of X-rays characteristic of the final decay product.
The discovery of element 85 in a radon tube was announced in Comptes rendus by Hulubei and
Cauchois in 1939, just before the outbreak of the Second World War. The positions of La,, LB
and Ka emissions were listed [104], but yet again no original X-ray plates were reproduced. The
authors were piqued when, the following year, W. Minder presented radiological evidence for
element 85 in Helvetica Chimica Acta, without mentioning the French paper [105]. In 1940, Hulubei
and Cauchois therefore published a short letter in Comptes rendus in which they reiterated their
prior claim for element 85, and stated that they hoped to present a complete spectral analysis
with the reproduction of photographic evidence. The paper ends with the sad mitigation that
‘malheureusement nos travaux ont été interrompus par la guerre [sadly our work was interrupted
by the war]’ [106]. Their research was in fact continued at the Instituto Superiore di Sanita in
Rome by Manuel Valdares, who had studied under Cauchois. Valdares’ experiments employed
a larger sample of radon than had been available in Paris, and the characteristic X-ray lines of
element 87 again revealed themselves. Most of this work was published in the somewhat obscure
proceedings of his institute [107].

The work in Paris in the pre-war years was soon superseded by the now-accepted discovery of
element 87 by Marguerite Perey, who had joined /’Institut de Radium, also in Paris, as a technician
in 1929. By 1939, she had realized that although 237 Ac decays mainly via 8 emission, about 1%
undergoes a-decay to element 87, which in turn undergoes B-decay with an extremely short
half-life of 21 min. This is very much less than the half-life for B-decay of actinium, thus allowing
the two decay processes to be differentiated [108]. Ironically, her claim for the discovery of
element 87 appeared in a paper presented by Jean Perrin, who had earlier promoted Cauchois and