green chemistry and the circular economy, because photons can replace one or more reagents
that would be necessary in a thermally promoted reaction. Furthermore, light can often promote
reactions which are inaccessible via direct heating of a reaction mixture. Photochemistry also
aligns well with at least two Principles of Circular Chemistry: CC4. Strive for energy persistence.
Energy efficiency should be maximized; and CC5 - Enhance process efficiency. Innovations should
continuously improve in- and post-process reuse and recycling, preferably on-site. So clearly Ciamician’s
vision is becoming highly topical in the context of the current sustainability agenda but what is
making a real difference are technical advances in reactor engineering which remove many of the
engineering barriers that have hamstrung larger scale photochemistry for so long. Indeed, the
authors of the Principles of Circular Chemistry have themselves written, ‘There is a strong ambition
towards developing chemically renewable energies, for example, solar-driven chemistry’.

Many of the problems of scaling up photochemical reactions are associated with the fact that
a photochemical reaction requires absorption of light and this absorption limits the penetration
distance of that light into the solution. Thus, there is a choice; either one must have a strongly
stirred reactor so that all of the reaction mixture is swept past the light source or, alternatively,
one can design a reactor in which the thickness of reaction mixture is small, for example, in a long
narrow tube or within a falling film. Sunlight is highly directional and can be easily focussed onto


a reaction vessel, although longer wavelength light needs to be filtered out to prevent overheating
of the reaction mixture and, of course, the position of the sun changes throughout the day. Until
recently, the majority of other light sources have been less directional with the result that it is
often simplest to place the light source in the centre of a reactor which also means that the
heat generated by the lamp must necessarily be removed from within the reactor, considerably