[65]. However, Adams noted that Plana made an error in assuming that the Earth’s eccentricity
is constant within an orbit, while in reality it is continually diminishing. Once this is taken
into account, Adams obtained the theoretical value for the secular acceleration of the Moon
of 5.70 arcsec/century. In 1857, Peter Andreas Hansen published Tables de la Lune [66] with an
observational value of 12.18 arcsec/century.

Adams’ paper, contradicting both the observed value and the work of Laplace and Plana, but
not providing any explanation for the origin of the rest of the effect, did not cause much of a
reaction immediately. However, it soon developed into a full-blown controversy [65]. First, it
was Plana who reacted in 1856 and claimed that Adams was correct and then that he was not,

3Berlin observers, looking for the planet almost two months later, used another chart made by Carl Bremiker in 1845. The
chart lay forgotten in the director’s office, waiting to be distributed together with another still unfinished chart. The fact that
the map was only present in Berlin gave rise to various speculations about the importance of this map for the discovery,
ranging from the idea that Galle and d’Arrest used it from the start of the search to the idea that Le Verrier knew about the
map in the first place. Its absence from Cambridge was often assumed as the crucial reason the planet was not discovered by
Challis [58]. The truth is that the Berlin observers proceeded with the then standard Harding's Sky Atlas and were looking for
a planet based on Le Verrier’s prediction that it would be seen as a disc. Only when they were not successful, they thought it
would be good to check if any of the new maps covered the area of the search [59,60]. They were lucky.

“The French Academy of science proposed the question in 1762, 1770, 1772 and 1774, while the Swedish Academy of Sciences
proposed it in 1787 (for 1791) and awarded the prize to Laplace. Winners of the French competitions were Bossut, Euler, Euler
and Lagrange, and Lagrange, respectively.

