
according to his daughter [1]. It was also an observation that he tried to make others consider:
in a collection of notes for students prepared by Stokes and William Thomson, Stokes references
this habit in an attempt to illustrate the viscosity of fluids: ‘The subsidence of the motion of the
motion in a cup of tea which has been stirred may be mentioned as a familiar instance of friction’
[g].2

Humphry also recounted the many excursions she and her father took in her youth, which
almost entirely involved a coastline of some sort. During one vacation in Antrim, Humphry
recalled a walk from Port Ballintrae to Portrush to attend a picnic. Stokes, however, was eager to
carry out some experiments ‘on waves in a cave near Portrush’. After wading out, he ‘worked
away at his waves, so that we waited rather long, and the tide was quite high when we set
off back’, an anecdote Humphry recounts fondly despite the fact that it led to them missing
the picnic’. It is through Humphry’s recounting of her childhood memories with her father
that we see how the sea continued to play an important role in Stokes’ life: he was ‘fond of
walking on the Velvet Strand’ when they would stay with his sister Elizabeth in Malahide.

Many long vacations were spent at the Observatory at Armagh, Elizabeth Haughton’s homeplace, : =
and Humphrey recalls visiting ‘some seaside place, oftenest the magnificent neighbourhood of : =
the Giant’s Causeway’. These times were productive ones for Stokes. He spent the afternoon 13
undertaking ‘long walking expeditions’ and climbing cliff paths. The family visited the Land : =
Cave following storms on the Atlantic, described as ‘a sort of window opening into it from the ZR
land, so that we could see the great waves come in, making the cave dark; it was striking to see : o
such great masses of water fall without sound upon a bed of foam’. Humphrey said that her father 8
made many observations about waves while they were in the Land Cave, saying he was ‘trying : §