
In common as I know with many others, I have often been struck with the beauty of this
Road in walking from Downing Terrace towards the Hills Road. The eye rests on a beautiful
line of plantation on the right, while the grounds of Downing lie on the left. Short as the
road is, I cannot but regard it as one of the ornaments of the Town. The fine poplar tree at the
corner is also a highly ornamental object as seen from St Andrew’s Street and elsewhere. . .

Stokes’ character, however, was not such as to extrapolate from his appreciation of the natural
world any general idea of applying science to nebulous enterprises. According to his daughter
Isabella again [2]

It was interesting to notice in my father’s discussions with scientific men the horror he had
of theorizing from unproved facts; he would always say, ‘But have you proved your facts?”
and then would often show them that this had not been done. He could not bear ‘scientific
romancing,’ as he called it.

1We presume that Millais had the rarer outer bow wrong, but we cannot find definite confirmation of this. The Pre-Raphaelite
movement of which Millais formed a part was deeply interested in weaving science into their art ‘How did the group harness
empirical methods to create its work? Take arguably the most famous Pre-Raphaelite painting, Millais’s Ophelia (1851-25).
At first glance, this seems a sentimental portrayal of the tragic suicide of the character in William Shakespeare’s Hamlet.
However, every plant depicted, from purple loosestrife to wild roses, is the product of more than three months of painstaking
observation as Millais worked on the banks of the Hogsmill River in Surrey. Other artists had painted in the open air before,
but never in such meticulously wrought detail.’ [7]. Ruskin, champion of the Pre Raphaelites, wrote in 1884 that, although the
brotherhood’s work might ‘seem to be the reaction of a desperate fancy. . .against the incisive scepticism of recent science’,
they were in fact ‘a part of that science itself’ [8].