rate-dependent viscoelastic damage model for simulation of solid propellant. Shekhar et al. [16]


redefined the elastic modulus and viscous parameter in the Maxwell model as a function of strain
rate and got a nonlinear viscoelastic model for the quasi-static uniaxial tension of solid propellant.
Another shortcoming of the traditional viscoelastic model is that the number of parameters is
usually large, such that more than 10 and even 30 or 40 parameters are necessary in the Prony
series for the accurate description of relaxation modulus of solid propellants and other viscoelastic
materials. A more appropriate approach for both accuracy and fewer parameters may be the
viscoelastic model based on fractional derivatives instead of the traditional viscoelastic model
with integer-order derivatives.

In fact, the fractional calculus approach to viscoelasticity has evolved as an effective method
of describing the properties of viscoelastic materials [17]. Nutting [18] earlier observed that the
stress relaxation phenomenon of a number of materials could be expressed by means of fractional
powers of time. Later, Gemant [19] found some limitations of traditional viscoelastic models
and suggested that the stiffness and damping properties of viscoelastic materials appeared to be
proportional to fractional powers of frequency. Furthermore, in the work of Bagley & Torvik [20],

experimental results suggested that the rheological properties that give rise to viscoelasticity may : =
have a fundamental behaviour based on fractional rather than integer calculus. The introduction : =
of fractional calculus into the theory of viscoelasticity has resulted in a powerful tool to model the 1B
static and dynamic behaviours of polymers and other materials [21-30]. The wide use of fractional : =
calculus-based constitutive models is motivated by the advantage of fewer parameters required to DR
describe material viscoelastic behaviours and the convenience of Fourier and Laplace transforms. : o