Non-equilibrium thermodynamics deals with such phenomena as coupled transport
processes [2] or finite-speed heat engines working between heat baths with finite heat transfer
coefficients [3], just to name a few. Many theoretical approaches, such as superstatistics
[4,5], classical irreversible thermodynamics [2,6,7], stochastic thermodynamics [8] or the
thermodynamics of small systems [9], typically rely on the local equilibrium or stationarity
assumptions [2,10,11]. On the other hand, for systems working between an energy potential, e.g.
a hot and a cold reservoir, which drives a continuous energy current through the system, the local
equilibrium assumption is typically violated, and often one has to resort to numerical simulations
as the primary (and often the only) diagnostic tool [12,13], despite recent advances in the theory
of driven systems [14,15].

Much of what we seem to understand about irreversible processes comes from semi-empirical
considerations rather than from first principle derivations. In fact, we find ourselves in a rather
awkward position, since the theory we understand best, namely reversible thermodynamics,
cannot easily be adapted to the description of irreversible processes without sacrificing the
equilibrium concepts, i.e. the very concepts on which reversible thermodynamics fundamentally
hinge. One might even go as far as to say that the undeniable success of quasi-equilibrium theory
of reversible processes has been instrumental in obscuring intrinsic mechanisms responsible for
thermodynamic irreversibility. Here, we attempt to offer an explicit insight into how mechanical
irreversibility of thermodynamic processes can be understood for an ideal gas system (i.e. a system
consisting of non-interacting point-like particles) and elastic collisions with the confining vessel
boundaries, based on a more than half a century old observation, that momentum transfer
between molecules and moving piston [16], produces irreversible work contributions [17]. In
particular, our aim will be to first derive the path-dependent work equation for this important
contribution to the irreversibility; a contribution that is entirely due to the motion of the