the multiplexer inside each PE (as used in the state-of-the-art fault tolerant systolic array design)
consumes approximately 6% of the area of a PE. This shows that having a fault tolerant design
that mitigates permanent faults in the MAC and MUX units of the array can significantly improve
the yield of the manufacturing process.

Figure 11 presents a comparison of the hardware characteristics of the PEs of different sizes
and types of systolic arrays as discussed in ยง3a. The figure shows that the fault-tolerant PEs
consume slightly more area as compared to a baseline PE depending on the complexity of the
bypassing /cut-off circuitry used in the design. For example, a PE with dual bypass and cut-off
circuitry (i.e. DBNC_PE) consumes approximately 25% more area, and a PE with cut-off circuitry
(ie. C_PE) consumes approximately 1% additional area, when compared to the baseline PE used
for the same size systolic array. The variation in the area with respect to the array size is due to
the fact that the bit-width of the partial sums increases with an increase in the number of PEs
in a single column of the array. Similar to the area characteristics, the critical path delay of a PE
also depends on the design and the size of the systolic array. However, the variations in the delay
are relatively small, ie. at the maximum 6.5% for the 8x8 systolic array composed of DBNC_PE
when compared to the baseline PE for the same array size. The trend in the power characteristics
is approximately similar to the trend observed in the area characteristics of the PEs. Hence the
multiple options, that are shown in figure 6, ยง3a, provide different design trade-offs in terms of
area, latency, power and resilience.


Table 1. Hardware results of the components used in different sizes of the baseline and the state-of-the-art fault tolerant 6 |
systolic arrays. The bit-widths of the partial sums in 8 x 8,16 x 16,32 x 32and 256 x 256 arrays were set to 19, 20, 21 and
24, respectively, assuming the bit-width of weights and activations to be 8-bit.