as bottleneck) into opportunities. The self-powering capabilities including solar and wireless-
powered energy devices have also been demonstrated for a small patch of sensors for wearable
health monitoring [25,26,37]. With the growing requirements for soft eSkin, it is important to
investigate the integration of alternative clean and portable energy harvesting approaches, for
example piezoelectric, thermoelectric, triboelectric and electromagnetic mechanisms, etc. The
thermoelectric energy harvesters coupled to the energy storage devices could tap the heat
generated by the actuators on robots and fuel the energy storage devices for powering the
electronics in the eSkin. Similarly, the piezoelectric harvesters can be used to generate electricity
as a result of multiple physical interactions or mechanical vibrations in the environment and use
the same to fuel the low-power electronics in the eSkin. Likewise, the triboelectric nanogenerators
(TENGs) working on the principle of energy generation under mechanical deformations such as
pressing, touching, bending and stretching are most interesting for eSkin applications and have
recently gained significant attention [38,156—-158]. In fact, a TENG based on single electrode with a
load of 0.1 G@ has been recently shown to deliver a power density of 500 mW m7 by harvesting
biomechanical energy for self-powered tactile sensor applications [156]. The skin conformable
TENG can be coupled to the energy storage devices such as the micro-SC for energy-autonomous
self-powered sensor applications [157]. The summary of various self-powered energy devices for
large area flexible eSkin is presented in table 3.

4. Challenges and opportunities

As clear from figure 4, very few reports are present in the literature regarding neuromorphic
tactile sensing. Most of the work demonstrated so far comprises single or a small array of
memristors, while large-scale integration of memristor in the context of eSkin is not there yet. This
lack of advances in neuromorphic tactile sensing is due to the challenges related to the integration