the linearity of the time-evolution transformation of the quantum state. Thus, the formalism
of quantum mechanics naturally incorporates the fact that context is an essential aspect of
measurement: every measurement of a set of observables corresponds to the sort of conditions
under which it is made (i.e. the specific context) and some of these can be mutually incompatible,
as well as sequences of measurements which can exhibit order-dependence.

Two total experimental situations are incompatible if and only if they correspond to
different contexts, i.e. different equivalence classes in the sense of measuring sets of physical
magnitudes symbolized by non-commuting (operator) observables. Bohr put this as follows.
‘These circumstances find quantitative expression in Heisenberg’s indeterminacy relations which
specify the reciprocal latitude for the fixation, in quantum mechanics, of kinematical and
dynamical variables required for the definition of the state of a system in classical mechanics
itself. In fact, the limited commutability of the symbols by which such variables are represented
in the quantal formalism corresponds to the mutual exclusion of the experimental arrangements
required for their unambiguous definition’ [18, p. 5]. As a consequence, propositions regarding
quantum properties are complementary to specific other sets of propositions, precluding their
joint sharp attribution due to the linear structure of the state space: every pure state is a nontrivial
linear combination of eigenvectors of observables with which the associated one-dimensional
projection fails to commute. Thus, for example, spatial position is almost indeterminate when the
momentum is specified in the limit of perfect precision, and vice versa. Von Neumann formalized
this incompatibility by showing that sharp quantum observable are jointly measurable if and only
if they commute with one another, and if and only if they are functions of a single observable
(cf. [15, Sect. III. 3]). The order of measurements is significant. The statistics of measurement of
two quantum observables Aand B, which can be measured in one of two sequences, either A first
or B first, i.e. as AB or BA, may or may not have equivalent results; order-independence implies