1870 Clifford considered that for the majority of scientists, ‘Force is regarded as the great fact that
lies at the bottom of all things’, but that this view was being superseded [38, p. 121]. A few years
later Tait opined that, ‘in another century [force] will probably have lost all but a mere antiquarian
interest.’ [39, p. xiv].

As a major proponent of the new energy programme in physics, Tait further claimed that
‘[energy] has been shown to have as much claim to objective reality as matter has’, because it was
conserved [39, p. 4]. But his view was still contentious. Clifford was one of those who objected.
He disputed Tait’s assertion, that matter and energy were objectively real because they were
conserved, on philosophical grounds and pointed out that our knowledge of the conservation
of both was limited by the accuracy of experiment. Claims of absolute conservation rested on an
unjustified extrapolation from macroscopic experience. Similarly, theories of matter based on the
ether rested on a mathematical fiction, a continuous perfect fluid, extrapolated from macroscopic
imperfect fluids. Matter and energy, he concluded, were ‘complex mental images’, of phenomena
that might possibly result purely from the curvature of space—an idea that did not gain currency

at the time but foreshadowed Einstein’s general relativity [38, quote on p. 287]. : =

Possibly the North British physicists felt able to ignore Clifford’s suggestion of curved space : =
since Helmholtz had provided them with an empirical argument for doing so. By insisting 1B
on the ‘axiom of free mobility’, the hypothesis that all spatial figures may be translated or : =
rotated in space without changing their form, he restricted physicists’ (but not mathematicians’) ZR
consideration to geometries of constant curvature. Then, as Riemann had pointed out, as far as : o
they go, astronomical observations showed that astronomical space could not be distinguished 3
from Euclidean space [27,29]. Certainly, in 1876, Tait referred to Helmholtz and Riemann when : 3