Probabilistic contextuality describes an empirical system of measurements wherein a set of
observables can be measured in different subsets in different contexts, and even though each
observable has the same distribution in all contexts in which it is measured, the joint distributions
of measurements within each context cannot be pieced together into a global joint distribution.
The original significance lies in Bell’s theorem and related results [1,2], which state that certain
contextual systems cannot be explained by any local hidden-variables theory, although such
systems are predicted by quantum mechanics and have been experimentally confirmed [3,4].

The standard formulation of contextuality applies only to cases where the distribution of
each observable is identical across contexts. This property of a system of measurements is called
consistent connectedness [5], marginal selectivity [6,7] or no-disturbance [8]. Dzhafarov and
Kujala have made persuasive arguments for extending contextuality to inconsistently connected
systems, including the fact that real experiments never eliminate all sources of contamination, and
that sample frequencies in finite datasets will generally not be equal even if the true generating
probabilities are [9-11]. Beyond these pragmatic considerations, it is of interest to know whether
contextuality can be usefully defined in cases where the distributions of observables are truly
different across contexts. This might enable contextuality analysis to be applied to other domains,
such as human cognition or behaviour [12-15].

The contextuality-by-default (CbD) theory offers one approach for defining contextuality
for inconsistently connected systems [5,11,16]. CbD treats measurements of each observable in
different contexts as different random variables, by default. It then asks whether the distributions
of random variables in each context are compatible with a global distribution in which all
variables for each observable are made as equal as possible, in a rigorous sense based on
probabilistic couplings [17]. If not, then the system is CbD-contextual (we use this term to