[7-9]. Non-physical applications provide additional reasons for one’s interest in measures of 1B
non-contextuality: e.g. some models of decision making can predict both contextual and non- :2
contextual systems of random variables, and non-contextual systems may be linked to features of : 8
decision making that are, if anything, of greater interest than those in contextual systems [9]. In aivel
quantum physics, there is a growing interest to the question of whether certain classical systems : x
could exhibit contextuality similar to that found in quantum systems [10-12]. Here, it might be : =
useful to quantify the ‘classicality’ and ‘non-classicality’ of systems by measures of, respectively, :3
non-contextuality and contextuality, preferably chosen so that they form each other’s natural Se

extensions. One can argue that degree of contextuality has been linked to quantum advantage
in computation, communication complexity, and other matters of intrinsic or practical interest
[13-15], while nothing like this is currently known about non-contextuality. However, this may
very well be due to the simple fact that no measures of non-contextuality have so far been
proposed and studied.

1.7 The three measures of contextuality considered in this paper are CbD-based, which means
that they are not constrained by the assumption of consistent connectedness. We had to leave
out a large number of interesting contextuality measures discussed in the literature under the
consistent connectedness constraint (with the exception of the contextual fraction measure that
we generalize to apply to arbitrary systems). Thus, most of the measures of non-locality (as a
special case of contextuality) reviewed in [16] cannot be naturally extended to measures of locality
(non-contextuality). The measures of contextuality constructed in relation to Bell-type criteria of
non-contextuality for consistently connected systems, as e.g. in [17], usually can be extended to
measures of non-contextuality along the lines of our opening example. The fact that we do not
discuss these measures in detail is a reflection of the focus of this paper rather than our view of