Considering measurements with the neutral beam set-up, the metastable state fraction in Hf : =
would also pose a problem for ion-atom merged beams measurements that study, for example, [8
a)

reactions (4.1) and (4.2). It could probably be argued that a small amount of rotational energy
might be less of a problem for these barrier-less, exothermic reactions, compared to the indirect
Hj DR process that proceeds exclusively through distinct resonances. Therefore, measurements
with a supersonic expansion source without a dedicated diagnostic scheme may be sufficient.
Furthermore, also in these cases, studies with isotopic variants could help to shed light on the
dependence on internal excitations.

There is another challenge which applies more to the ion—atom merged beams studies than the
DR measurements. Given the fact that there is often a large difference in mass between H} and
the collision partner, the Hy beam usually would have a rather low kinetic energy to be able to
match the velocities of both beams. This leads to problems with the ion beam orbit inside the CSR,
since the Earth’s magnetic field will disturb the trajectories of light- and low-energy ion beams.
While storage of H} at 300 keV, for example, is straightforward, already storage at 60 keV energy
(which can be provided by the smaller ion source platform) may lead to much shorter ion beam
lifetimes. We have conducted first storage tests with Hj at 50 keV to validate that stable storage
is even possible (figure 6) and found that, while it is certainly more difficult to set the storage
ring parameters, it is still feasible to store the beam, albeit with a relatively short 1/e lifetime
of approximately 40s. This result is certainly encouraging, as this lifetime may already be long
enough for experiments with cold ion sources that do not rely on long storage times for rotational
cooling. To cope with the influence of the Earth’s magnetic field, which also has an impact on the
resolution of ion—atom merged beams studies, an effort to install Helmholtz coils along the entire