whether the vertical dovetailing solution was his or Walker’s own. It had the benefit of locking
and fastening the stones from one course to the ones above and below, preventing relative
rotation and hence further enhancing integrity and robustness of the construction. Douglass was
challenged at an Institution of Civil Engineers meeting about the use of dovetailing. He was asked
whether recent improvements in the manufacture of Portland cement were considered effective
in delivering sufficient tensile strength to a stone conglomerate, to make it act as a monolith in
response to the waves action. Douglass responded that the dovetailing and related extra stone
added less than 1% to the overall cost and they ensured ‘permanent stability and safety of the
whole structure’ [3]. Indeed, there was not sufficient evidence as to the durability of the binding
strength of Portland cement and concrete and on its stability in aggressive environments.

Construction progress at Wolf Rock was painfully slow due to the severe constraints of {=
working on such a small rock, which rarely pierced the sea surface. In fact, in the first year of 28
construction, only 83 working hours were completed on the rock. The first part of the structure to :=
be built was a 413 m3 landing stage which comprised 15 000 blocks, each 76.2 kg [5]. In 1865, in the Da
later stages of construction, a partial course of blocks that had been placed the previous summer :B
was frustratingly lost, apparently due to being hit by a ship’s mast that was cut off during a storm 1p
[3]. However, by 1870, the lighthouse was completed, lit and inhabited by its first lighthouse 8
keepers. The entire cost was £62 726 [3]. : ws

(c) Helideck structure :3

Among all the Trinity House rock towers, the lighthouse keepers on Wolf Rock suffered most
from sea conditions affecting their periodic removal from the station; the average overdue time
for reliefs was 43 days (S. Simmons, personal communication, 2019). Since the keepers union