in figure 8. Retrieved parameters are Ty = 774 + 64K and Ng = (2.31 + 0.88) x 1015 m-?, and the
latter is over plotted on the modelled column densities with horizontal error bars that identify the
range of local times that contributed to the observed spectrum.

There is good model-data agreement in figure 8b, which lends additional confidence that the
model is an accurate representation of both the observed electron density (figure 7) and Hy
column density (figure 8b). Before moving on, however, there are a couple of important caveats
to emphasize. First, and perhaps most important, the ionospheric simulation is for 20 April 2016
during solar minimum, in accordance with the Keck Hy observations, whereas the Galileo radio
occultation was obtained on 8 December 1995, nearly 21 years prior, also during solar minimum.
It would be far more surprising if Jupiter’s ionosphere had not changed in those intervening
years than if it had, especially given the variability present in ionospheric radio occultations at
giant planets [53,73]. Therefore, the fact that the model agreement is good in both figures 7 and 8
is most likely a coincidence rather than an indication of atmospheric stability, though the fact that
the approximately 21 year separation between the two datasets is nearly 2 full solar cycles allows
some minimum of hope for a happy coincidence to be maintained. Second, the Galileo radio
occultation was at 68° W (System III) longitude, whereas the Keck observations were centred at
308° W longitude, a slightly different magnetic environment. The majority of the modelled Ht
layer is still in photochemical equilibrium, meaning that this variation should have minimal effect,
at least if solar photons are the main ionospheric driver as assumed here, though high altitude
ion drifts would be altered. Nevertheless, given that the model is able to reproduce both available
datasets, and given that there are no better combinations of ionospheric constraints available, we
shall progress forward under the assumption that the ionospheric model simulation provides as
accurate a representation of the H} density structure as possible at present.
