
(3) Most models of ice lens formation are one-dimensional in nature. This means that ice lenses
are assumed to appear across a layer of freezing colloidal suspension, and the problem of how
ice lenses nucleate and propagate across the layer is left untreated. Although experiments appear
to indicate that ice-lens formation may be ‘crack-like’ in nature, the process is rapid. Thus, the
propagation of a new ice lens across a section of a freezing cell resembles both a propagating
fracture and a one-dimensional nucleation process. We cannot yet distinguish between the two.

3. Climate proxies

The Earth’s past climate is recorded at the finest temporal resolution in the deep ice cores of both
polar regions and interfacial and grain boundary premelting [41-43] plays an important role in
the state of the climate signal [4446]. This is due to the fact that meteoric ice (snow fall that
accumulates to form the ice sheets) is by definition polycrystalline. Hence, at the boundaries
between individual crystals (where two grains abut or at the veins and nodes where three and
four grains come together, respectively) soluble impurities segregate providing high-resolution,
long-term archives of climate proxies (e.g. an atmospheric trace-constituent). Major efforts by
international teams (e.g. [47]) remove kilometre scale ice cores to analyse for their record of
the state of past climates. However, the ice is an effective medium, which has two phases and
multiple components, and it cannot be read directly unless a climate proxy stays ‘fixed’ to the
ice with which it was deposited. For example, impurities that are detected in the vein network
are dissolved in the liquid if the in situ temperature is above the eutectic temperature of their
aqueous solution; the eutectic temperature of NaCl in water is roughly 252 K and that of HzSO4
solutions is 200K [46]. Moreover, these proxies are transported from the surface of the ice sheet
with the flowing (under the weight of subsequent annual layers) and deforming polycrystalline