In fact, Cauchy was notorious for making really bad mistakes (as Abel sarcastically puts it: ‘It
appears to me that Cauchy’s theorems suffer exceptions’). Especially in Algebra, he made quite
outrageous claims, accompanied by several dozen pages of computational proofs by obfuscation.
We skip the famous Lamé-Cauchy case, where Cauchy persisted in publishing his ‘proof’
of the unique factorization for cyclotomic integers long after being confronted by Kummer’s
counterexamples [10]. However, essentially all his algebraic results I’ve seen are of the same

nature. Thus, discussing p-elements in symmetric groups S,, he ‘proves’ that any element of areal
the wreath product Sp?...?Sp has order p. Even more amazing is his 1821 paper on Padé =
approximation, where he claims that for any natural 0 < m <n and for any n + 1 distinct points a]
X0,X1,...,Xn there exist polynomials f and g of degrees < m and <n — m, respectively, such that : =
f/g takes (arbitrary!) prescribed values at x9,%1,...,Xy. The irredeemable mistake was indicated : S
by Kronecker 60 years later. In fact, as any first year undergraduate student can see within 5 min, fg

Cauchy’s claim clamorously fails already in the first non-trivial case m = 1, n = 2.

e It seems that the record is set by the failed attempts to prove Fermat's last theorem.
There were thousands of such wrong or defective proofs, many of them published. A
person of no smaller status than von Lindemann has between 1901 and 1909 published
three fallacious proofs of Fermat's last theorem [11]. Vandiver’s 1934 criterion was long
considered the most important advance towards the proof of Fermat’s theorem since the
time of Kummer. However, later it was discovered to contain a fatal gap. Here is how
Lang [10] describes it: ‘On the other hand, many years ago, Feit was unable to understand
a step in Vandiver’s “proof” that p hy implies the first case of Fermat’s Last Theorem,
and stimulated by this, Iwasawa found a precise gap which is such that there is no proof.’