
reactive. A significant number of observations in the last decade have firmly established the
footprint of this process in the mid-ocean ridge rock record [51-57]. These have recently been
covered in depth in [34], and we only recap the main findings here. The first is that evidence
for reactions between crystal and migrating melt are nearly ubiquitously preserved in oceanic
plutonic rocks [34] as well as lower crustal xenoliths in MORB [56,57], and are manifest on a grain
scale by both reaction textures (e.g. dissolution fronts, symplectites) and mineral compositions.
From a compositional viewpoint, zoning in major elements of cumulus (i.e. former framework)
crystals towards domains of melt flow is associated with unusual enrichment and fractionation
of trace elements [54]. The second main finding is that the same trace element enrichment and
fractionation that is found on a grain scale also occurs on the scale of the entire lower crust [54].
This suggests that the lower crustal crystal mush acts as one system, and that it is permeable
throughout. This is consistent with the fact that the lower crust, at least at Hess Deep in the
Pacific, forms an overall upward differentiation sequence. Hence, the lower crustal crystal mush
is an interconnected system, evolving upwards, with a significant role for reactive porous flow.

The consequences of reactive porous flow are profound: melt evolution no longer obeys the
laws of fractional crystallization. From a major element perspective, reactions may change the
MgO-FeO-CaO-Al1)O3 relationships, as these are the dominant elements in the main phases
involved [53]. MgO, in particular, is sensitive to reactive flow, as Fe-Mg exchange between
migrating melts and crystals is rapid. In the case where evolved melts interact with a primitive
matrix, this can lead to unusual mineral and melt compositions, with equilibration with the matrix
leading to Mg# typical of a primitive melt composition, but enriched incompatible elements (e.g.
Ti) [53]. From a trace element perspective, it is striking that the reactive geochemical signature of
trace element enrichment and fractionation that is present in the lower crust is very similar to the