possesses a Mg# of approximately 60 (though slightly higher at slow-spreading compared to
fast-spreading ridges [99]), which requires approximately 40-50% fractionation of a primary melt
(Mg# ~ 72). Hence, given that a framework already forms at 20-25% crystallization, a significant
proportion of MORB crystallization is likely to occur in this framework-dominated mode, rather
than in a melt-dominated mode. The implication is that, being an interstitial phase in a crystal
framework, clinopyroxene does not crystallize as a ‘free’ phase within a pure magma, as models
based on melt-filled magma chambers would predict. Hence, clinopyroxene does not readily form
phenocrysts suspended in a magma-rich reservoir, and is thus unlikely to erupt: it is essentially
trapped in the mush. Nonetheless, melts extracted from the mush will show a chemical signature
of clinopyroxene crystallization.

It is difficult to identify parameters that uniquely discriminate between the different
explanations for the pyroxene paradox, and in fact the paradox might result from a combination
of the different processes discussed above. Nonetheless, three arguments suggest that the mush
explanation is a viable one. First, the Gakkel lavas contain few clinopyroxene phenocrysts despite
the conditions favouring relatively high-pressure fractionation: hence, there must be something
in the magma plumbing system that prevents them from being erupted. Second, ultraslow-
spreading ridges are relatively magma poor, and contain no documented melt-rich magma
chambers, limiting the opportunity for magma mixing. Instead, slow- and ultraslow-spreading
magma plumbing systems are dominated by crystal mush, providing ample opportunity for
clinopyroxene to get trapped in a mush. Third, clinopyroxene in oceanic plutonic rocks commonly
grows around or in between idiomorphic plagioclase (e.g. [124]). Three examples from the longest


Figure 7. Core photographs of gabbroic rocks from ODP Hole 735B (Atlantis Bank, Indian Ocean). (a) Fine-grained leucogabbro