the other two approaches (PVS-PDMS and PDMS-PDMS).

By taking into consideration the replica moulding process, in the negative moulding step we
believe that the curing time and how fast viscosity increases are the most important factors in the
accuracy of the replication. Whereas PVS cures extremely fast, it might not be as precise as epoxy
resin owing to diffusion limitation to completely fill the cavities on the topography of the leaf
surface (epoxy resin is about 10% more precise reproducing L. chinensis microstructures in terms
of Dg results as compared to PVS). To increase the performance of PVS, Koch et al. [43] discussed
the inclusion of cooling to increase its curing time, as well as the alternative of using a vacuum
to remove air bubbles trapped in the microstructures. However, the use of lower pressures might
accelerate the loss of humidity from the plant leaf and by this deteriorate the replication results.

An additional important fact is that while epoxy resin and PDMS have the same curing time,
the increase in viscosity is extensively faster in epoxy resin, which reduces the working time
to about 45min, whereas in PDMS the increase in viscosity is much slower. This is relevant
when working with biological samples, considering that the loss in humidity can highly affect
the shape of the topographies of the leaf surface used as a master, thereby longer times of
curing will lead to greater deformation of the leaves. If the negative moulding material does
not harden quickly enough, the changes in the topography of the leaf master could eventually
be transferred to the negative replica. This could explain why PDMS used for negative moulding
shows the lowest values for ACCFMax and 1—Ds in all three plant leaf surfaces. This issue may
be confronted by including the monomer to curing agent ratio as a variable for PDMS during
negative moulding to decrease the curing time of PDMS at room temperature. With regard to
the PDMS positive moulding process, as all positive replicas underwent the same conditions, the
reduction in accuracy can only be attributed to the complexity of the topography in each plant