
Michael’s own piece [24] is a continuation of his work as an educator. He offers advice to young
researchers, which will prove no less useful for not so young ones; specifically, he outlines—
based upon his own rich experience—the nitty-gritty of how to enter the doors opened by the
teachers and advisers. I hope that Michael will maintain his impetus and enlarge his contribution
to a book.

The other papers are divided into following sections. Papers in the first section, Nonlinear
Continuum Mechanics, deal with modern nonlinear aspects in mechanics. Specifically,
Hutchinson [66] studies the role of substrate nonlinearity in the stability of wrinkling of thin
films bonded to compliant substrates; the initial post-bifurcational range is investigated. He
shows that the substrate pre-stretch has a significant effect on the nonlinearity, relevant to
wrinkling. This investigation was motivated by the fact that in many film-substrate systems,
compressive buckling of the film into wrinkling mode is undesirable. For the neo-Hookean
elasticity, the author uncovers fold-like or ridge-like wrinkle shapes. Substrate nonlinearity leads
also to a transition of a periodic wrinkle pattern to one alternating between highly localized
undulations and relatively flat regions. It turned out that the ‘localization phenomena usually
set in at compressive strains well above the bifurcation strain and are not captured by the
initial post-bifurcational approach’. In the paper by Di Paola et al. [67], the authors deal with
non-local effects, such as additional body forces acting on material volumes and depending
on relative displacements. As they mention, their ‘theory basically aims to introduce non-local
interactions among different locations of the body, in terms of elastic, central long-range body
forces proportional to the interacting volumes or masses’. They demonstrate that the elastic
equilibrium problem is ruled by a set of integral-differential equations in terms of displacements.
