This is the usual quenched KPZ equation [16,18,19]. It was expected that the scaling of the
roughening transition equation (3.9) should be in the same universality class as the quenched EW
equation, since the KPZ nonlinearity that is formally absent in the quenched EW equation should
be automatically generated in the latter due to the highly non-trivial dependence of the quenched
disorder on h [18,19]. However, several detailed studies indicated that the universal properties
of the roughening transition in the quenched KPZ equation are different from those in the
quenched EW equation [16,18,19]. Dimensional arguments as reported in [18,19] yield exponents
at = (4 — d)/4, By = (4 — d)/(4 + d) in d-dimensions. In this limit, the dynamics of u, as given by


equation (2.5) is driven by u that appears as a multiplicative noise, whose statistics is determined
by the quenched KPZ equation. Note that, regardless of the nature of the solutions, the structure
of equation (2.5) ensures that (du /dt) =0. This follows from the fact that (a) equation (2.5) is
linear in u, implying invariance under u, — —u_. Thus, (u,) should be bounded, unlike (u)),
which continuously grows, reflecting the average motion of the crackfront in the longitudinal
direction. We are interested in the scaling of u_. As in (3.7) and (3.8), notice that with B) 4 B.,
wave terms in both (2.4) and (2.5) cannot be removed. Equivalently, there is no frame where both
the waves vanish.

Notice the formal similarity (in the mathematical structure) of equation (2.4) the Navier-Stokes
equation for fluid flows and the Burgers equation for pressureless fluids (related to the KPZ
equation). Then, in analogy with the studies on fluid turbulence and depinning of contact lines,
for sufficiently large applied force F| above the threshold of depinning, u)(x, f) is turbulent, i.e.
the equal-time correlator ([uj(x, t) — u(x’, t)) scale qualitatively similarly with the same for the : =
velocity in fluid turbulence. Thus, 11) (x, f) should be a long-range field. Now in the limit, when 1) 3