average aligned along one privileged direction. When the temperature is increased, at a critical
value, the nematic state is replaced by a disordered state, which corresponds to an isotropic-
liquid phase [5-7]. This instability is known as the nematic-isotropic transition. One of the main
optical features of nematic liquid crystals is their high birefringence, which can be modulated
under the application of external electric and magnetic fields. This property is essential for
the use of liquid crystals as displays in electronic devices [8,9]. Likewise, modulation of the
birefringence can also be achieved by means of illumination with intense light beams [10,11].
Moreover, the inclusion of a small amount of certain types of dyes strongly reduces the critical
light intensity to induce the molecular reorientation [12]. In particular, when the nematic liquid
crystals are doped with azo-dyes, their nonlinear response to opto-electrical stimulus is increased
by several orders of magnitude [13-15]. The dyes undergo a photoisomerization transition [12],
namely, molecular conformational changes are generated by the light, leading to local changes
of molecular interactions. As a matter of fact, photoisomerization facilitates order—disorder
transitions [16]. Indeed, photoisomerization induced fronts have been recently reported for a
dye-doped nematic planar layer [17].

The aim of this manuscript is to investigate the spatio-temporal phenomena induced by
photoisomerization in a nematic dye-doped liquid crystal (DDLC) layer when is illuminated in
the absorption band of the dopants. We show that, for high enough input power, the sample with
planar anchoring presents a transition from a nematic to an isotropic phase. This transition is
mediated by interface propagation between the two phases. Moreover, in the case of a DDLC
twisted layer, and for lower input power, the light induces a spatially modulated nematic
phase, which exhibits stripe patterns. This instability is mediated by propagation of an interface
between the modulated and the homogeneous nematic phase. Theoretically, phase transitions,
the emergence of stripe patterns and front dynamics are described on the basis of a model for the