from which he then received the first Faraday Medal in 1921.

3. The first three volumes of electromagnetic theory =

Heaviside’s first installment of his three volumes of Electromagnetic theory was published in 1893 to
(aged 43) by The Electrician Printing and Publishing Co, London, based in Salisbury Court, Fleet faa)
Street, London. The publishing company had its own weekly trade journal which was at the _—
forefront of publishing papers relating to all manner of electrical matters, including telegraphy iy
and signalling through the transatlantic cable. The Electrician described itself as ‘A weekly journal [8
of telegraphy, electricity and applied chemistry’ and in May 1895 claimed that it was ‘The Oldest :B
and Best English Electrical Journal’, a bold claim. :8
Heaviside was a regular contributor among many eminent electrical men of the time—it
is in this journal that Heaviside published many of the articles (in fact he had a long and
fruitful relationship with the editors of The Electrician) that would ultimately end up published
in book form. His Electrical papers and Electromagnetic theory, which were essentially a collection
of previously published papers, are peppered with new insights and humorous (with some
serious) commentary. Volume I was published in 1893 [11] and focuses on topics such as a
review of current electromagnetic theory from the point of view of Heaviside, the development
of his ‘Vectorial Algebra and Analysis’ and moving these principles to his ‘Theory of Plane
Electromagnetic Waves’. Here he considers the mathematical description of the guidance of waves
by transmission lines, including his distortionless circuit and the practical means by which it is
to be achieved. This work sets out Heaviside’s major ideas about his electromagnetic theory as
interprets Maxwell's prior work and it paves the way for his own and others future studies of the
subject.
Electromagnetic theory, volume II, came 6 years later in 1899 [12] (aged 49), the first chapter