occurred or why some other behaviour did not occur as a product of a system, but also capture
and transmit the knowledge of the context underlying a system’s mechanism of action as a process
within a broad sociotechnical system [30]. Yet, calls for requiring explanations of computer system
behaviour as a path to governing those systems often do not address the question of who is meant
to receive what knowledge through the explanation. We offer that explanations must speak to the
decisions made during the design of a computer system, as such information is always available
and always fulfils the key requirements of a meaningful explanation.

We further reject that computer system behaviours should be held to a ‘best-effort’ standard
because they are unforeseeable. The behaviours of any human artefact are considered during its

design and construction. Viewing computer system behaviours as though they are uncontrollable : =
ignores the fact that these systems are human artefacts, built to a purpose by some human : a
agency that must be accountable for the behaviours of those artefacts. Such a view defers too 73
strongly to the power dynamics at play, placing actions with human agency beyond governance, aes
control and accountability. Even when the specifics of how a system will interact with the world 22
are not directly foreseeable, they can be reviewed, managed and constrained. The extent to [4
which particular details are or are not foreseeable may differ depending on the discipline and : *
background of the viewer. For example, the presence of fake news on social media websites : S
may be much more obvious a priori to activists or journalism scholars than it would be to : &

programmers or even product managers in industry. Even if we stipulate that designers cannot
foresee the interactions between their products and the world, we discover that such effects can
be considered during iterations of the design process or learned about through consultation with
external experts and stakeholders. Systems to surface these effects for review by its controllers or