the term ‘single lid’ to describe all types of tectonic and magmatic activity in a convecting and
magmatically active silicate body where the lithosphere is not fragmented into plates. It must be
stressed that we know very little about the range of single lid behaviours [12], but the proliferation
of new terms for these indicates that we have begun the serious work needed to achieve this
understanding.

Given that Earth may have experienced one or more episodes of single lid behaviour, how
can we identify these in the rock record? We cannot do that with any confidence yet, but we
should keep in mind that some transitions that have been identified in the rock record—for
example, different trace element and isotopic ratios preserved in sediments and igneous rocks—
might mark changes in single lid behaviour and not necessarily the beginning of plate tectonics.
Part of the reason for this uncertainty is that we have an incomplete understanding of the
range of single lid behaviours, largely due to the fact that we cannot yet study in detail any
of the three single lid examples in our Solar System. (The Mars InSight mission (scheduled to
land on Mars in November 2018) promises to make the first measurements of an active single
lid silicate body interior.) We expect that mantle plume activity will be an important mode of
convective upwelling in active single lid silicate bodies and that loss of lithosphere via Rayleigh—
Taylor instabilities or ‘drips’ will be important modes of convective downwelling. Interactions
between plume-derived magmas and pre-existing continental crust may yield incompatible
trace element abundances that mimic those of convergent margin magmas (e.g. [13]). Styles
of plume upwellings and drip downwellings will change as the body cools and lithosphere
thickens. There is petrological evidence that Earth’s potential temperature—approximating the
temperature of the asthenosphere—has decreased by approximately 150-300°C over the past
2.5 Ga [14,15], and cooler asthenosphere implies thicker mantle lithosphere and thinner oceanic
(basaltic) crust. The expected changes in the thickness of oceanic crust and mantle lithosphere