mature sedimentary rocks, meaning that the Hadean zircons have been through at least two
sedimentary cycles (see [29]). The original host rock for these zircon grains could have been
destroyed long before these sedimentary rocks were deposited. Searches have failed to locate
greater than 4 Ga rocks among the Eoarchean gneisses flanking the Jack Hills and Mount Narryer
supracrustal belts. It seems logical to infer from the global scarcity of greater than 4Ga zircons,
in spite of the unprecedented analytical effort devoted to finding such grains, that there cannot
ever have been much zircon-bearing Hadean crust. It has, therefore, been argued that the Jack
Hills zircons crystallized from small melt pockets within an overall mafic to ultramafic (i.e. :
not continental) crust [30-33]. In this case, the zircons themselves are not representative of that :=
bulk crust and manifest local, possibly ad hoc processes that may not provide insight into the :3
key workings of the Hadean Earth. The opposing, ‘tip of the iceberg’ viewpoint is that given :
the hostile conditions expected for the early Earth, with intense bolide bombardment, volcanic DG
resurfacing and crust-mantle overturns, the fact that any crustal relicts survived at all must mean :
that zircon-bearing Hadean crust was once voluminous (e.g. [34]). If the greater than 4 Ga detrital : 4
zircons indeed represent vestiges of granitic continents, then any inferences made from the 73
chemical inventory of these tiny grains goes to the heart of understanding Hadean crust-mantle 3
differentiation. &
Attempts to use other chemical indices to resolve these contrasting viewpoints are confounded .
by another, more fundamental issue, concerning the extent to which the greater than 4 Ga detrital
zircons faithfully preserve their primary compositional information. Disturbance to the U-Pb
isotope system has long been recognized by discordance in both U-Pb and Th-Pb ages [26] and
by variations in 2°7Pb/°Pb ages within individual grains, and even discrete growth domains
[30,35,36]. Concordance is no guarantee of isotopic integrity in these zircons, because ancient Pb
loss (or Pb gain) vectors are parallel to the concordia curve between 4.5 and 3.9 Ga. Such effects
have given rise to uncertainties over the actual crystallization age of the Jack Hills zircons. The