
As volcanism/plutonism becomes less dominant as a heat transport process, a planet can
transition from a heat pipe mode to a single-plate mode that remains geologically active. As an
example, Mars is a single-plate planet that shows signs of volcanic activity not consistent with a
heat pipe mode. Martian volcanic constructs are more consistent with a mantle plume origin in
morphology, gravity and topography [47]. In order for volcanism to remain locally active in this
mode, the residuum of crustal extraction, which is buoyant relative to bulk mantle, must be able
to flow away from the volcanic centre [48]. A tectonic mode with upwelling plumes interacting
with small-scale instabilities from the base of a single plate has also been invoked for the early
Earth [49]. It is worth noting that the morphology of mantle plumes on a single-plate planet can
differ from that of plumes on a plate tectonic planet [50,51]. As such, one should not expect
surface signatures of plumes on a single-plate planet to correlate in a one-to-one manner with
plume signatures from the geologically modern Earth. This goes beyond the fact that on a single-
plate planet hot spot tracks will not be generated—the dimensions and temperature anomalies of
plumes themselves can differ on single-plate planets relative to plate tectonic planets.

Recycling of mantle lithosphere and crust remains possible in a single-plate mode with several
recycling mechanisms having been put forward [52-55]. Figure 5 shows several non-plate tectonic
modes of recycling. The mechanisms can recycle igneous rocks and, if a single-plate planet has
an atmosphere/hydrosphere that allows for weathering, sedimentary rocks can also be recycled
without plate tectonics operating [56].

The issue of recycling relates to an observation noted in the introduction: opinions as to
what constitutes plate tectonics can vary. Variations are based on particular views as to the most
important aspect(s) of plate tectonics. More often than not, this is tied to a specific research topic