flow above a mantle downwelling [20,27,72-75] or magmatic underplating related to mantle
upwelling [29,61-63,70]. Both hypotheses embrace the dual premises that plateau roots represent
thickened crust and that inliers represent collapsed plateaux. However, finite-element modelling
indicates that crustal thickening via lower crustal flow cannot form steep-sided plateaux, that
plateau formation and collapse due to lower crust flow are geologically too slow given applicable
flow laws (required to support topography at high surface T [5]), and that collapse would not
result in the gross topography observed in tessera inliers [7,76,77]. These studies therefore call into
question plateaux formation due to lower crustal flow (i.e. downwelling) and inlier formation via
plateau collapse, regardless of the crustal thickening mechanism.

A ‘pulsating continents’ model called on a weak crust to form crustal plateaux and tessera
inliers [78]. However, this model fails to address how continents initially form, steep-sided
plateau topography, the fact that weak lower crust cannot support high topography, the similar
character of ribbon structures in crustal plateaux and lowland inliers, and the lack of evidence of
plateau collapse within inliers.

The character of ribbon-tesserae [62,69,71,79,80], is also difficult to address within the context
of the above models, as briefly reviewed here (figure 4c-e) [69]. Tesserae, marked by orthogonal
folds and extensional structures, resembles pahoehoe flow surfaces except for scale. Suites of
parallel subhorizonal, upright short-, medium- and long-wavelengths folds record increasing
layer shortening of increasingly thick layers; long-wavelength folds are best characterized as
warps given interlimb angles greater than 165°. Ribbon structures—periodic, alternating, parallel,
steep-sided ridges and troughs with typical wavelengths of approximately 1.5 km—parallel later
formed wider and shorter complex graben, which cut long-wavelength fold crests. Low-viscosity
flood material fills local structural lows independent of position within long-wavelength folds.