meant was blithely ignored. A Special ASTM Committee on Fracture Testing (ASTM Committee
E-24) was established in 1958 to develop the ASTM E399 Standard. The ASTM E399 standard
required testing round-robins, the consideration of many factors [10], such as specimen size
requirements: crack length, specimen thickness (length of the crack front), ligament length,
specimen geometry independence, notch acuity, and notch sensitivity. The concept of Kj: and Gjc
entails two independent size effects requiring (1) linear elastic behaviour of the material over
a field which is large compared with the plastic enclave that surrounds the crack front, and
(2) tritensile plane strain constraint within this enclave and somewhat beyond it [11]. The size
requirements imposed by ASTM E399 is relevant to high strength metals. ASTM E399 has no
established relevance to any type of ice.

Almost every usage of LEFM and the Kj, fracture toughness notation in the ice literature
indicates ignorance of the fact that LEFM may well not be applicable and that there is no fracture
testing standard for any type of ice. One is reminded again and again of the quote: ‘The greater
the ignorance the greater the dogmatism’ [12].

During this ill-advised one-parameter fracture mechanics ice odyssey, it has been implicitly
assumed that the way a tensile fracture grows in sea ice is universal, from cracks small to large.
Given the plethora of fracture scenarios, however, attention must be focused on the physical
processes accompanying crack nucleation and crack propagation in sea ice. For instance, during
the self-similar ENSP Phase II fracture experiments, it was found that the crack-tip-opening-
displacement (CTOD) at the fabricated crack tip varied with specimen size L (or, equivalently,
with crack length A) until the specimen size (crack length) reached 3m (0.9m). For L>3m or
A=0.9m, the CTOD remained a constant 40 1m (fig. 9 and the Non-Universal Scaling section,
p- 358, in [1]). This finding that the resistance to crack growth is dependent on crack length, until