spin polarized Lag 7Sro.3MnO3 (LSMO) [4] and Laq_,15Srj.g5Mn2O7 [51]. In the case of the contacts
onto CrOz, although none of the Go/Gpy (T) curves fall on that expected for the M-BTK limit
of 100% polarization, as discussed above once additional non-thermal broadening is included,
the predicted M-BTK model curves approach those of the experimental data at temperatures
far above 0K [49]. The data is therefore preliminary and neither confirms nor refutes one or
other of the models. The data from the literature on LSMO together with more recent data on
HgCr2Seq [52] by contrast is taken to lower temperature [4] and appears inconsistent with the
M-BTK prediction. However only further investigation taken to lower temperatures could help
definitively establish the correct behaviour.

In summary, although ABS have been predicted as an intrinsic component of SF point contacts,
there has only been one direct observation of such an ABS [50]. Partly this can be attributable to
the fact that it is difficult to make one, well defined contact that satisfies the conditions needed
to observe clearly defined ABS features [33]. Nonetheless, their presence in the spectra should be
revealed by the temperature dependence of the zero bias conductance which will approach zero
at OK for a half metallic contact [20]. Measurements of the temperature dependence of Go(T)
however have so far proved inconclusive as it is necessary to measure the contacts down to


very low temperature and, probably to use planar contacts to do so. The presence of ABS in the
spectra would result in reported data of low polarization or significant additional non-thermal
smearing if fitted within the M-BTK models. This necessitates the fitting of the data with models
which properly account for the potential formation of ABS. Nonetheless, such models introduce
more fitting parameters than the M-BTK, making practical determination of the spin polarization
less tractable. If however, future point contact measurements are made to lower temperature,