of saturation parameter 5; see equation (2.1). (a,), (a), (a3) and (a4) Depict the largest real part of 5 for the fundamental, dipole,
tripole and quadrupole soliton, respectively, in the case of the focusing saturable nonlinearity. (b;), (b2), (b3) and (b4) Show the
same for the defocusing nonlinearity. Parameters are the same as in figure 1. (Online version in colour.)

Figure 4 presents the dependence of the largest instability growth rate, Max(dp), on the
solitons’ integral power, P, as produced by numerical solution of the eigenvalue problem for
the fundamental, dipole, tripole and quadrupole solitons at different values of S and both signs
of the nonlinearity, focusing and defocusing (the top and bottom rows in figure 4, respectively).
The numerical results displayed in 4(a) and 4(a2) show that, under the action of the self-focusing
nonlinearity, Max(5p) is negligibly small for the fundamental and dipole solitons, which indicates
that they are linearly stable, irrespective of the value of S. On the other hand, the tripoles and
quadrupoles are stable when the solitons’ power is sufficiently small, as seen in 4(a3) and 4(a4) (in
fact, the quadrupoles are almost completely unstable). Further, under the action of self-defocusing
nonlinearity, fundamental solitons are linearly stable, irrespective of S, as shown in figure 4(b1),
while 4(b2), 4(b3) and 4(b4) show that the dipoles, tripoles and quadrupoles are stable, in this case,
only in tiny intervals of very small powers. A general trend, suggested by these results, is that the
instability is attenuated with the increase of the saturation strength S.

The results of the linear-stability analysis are confirmed, separately in figures 5 and 6 for
the focusing and defocusing nonlinearities, by direct numerical simulations of the perturbed
evolution of solitons, performed in the framework of equation (2.1). In these figures, the results of
the simulations are displayed along with (in)stability spectra of the underlying stationary states.
The eigenvalue spectra of equation (4.2) for fundamental, dipole, tripole and quadrupole solitons
are shown on the top row in figure 5. In particular, figure 5(b1) and 5(b2) confirms the stable
propagation of the fundamental and dipole solitons in the case of self-focusing nonlinearity, under