method described in §3a. One can see that the agreement between the results obtained with two
different numerical approaches is almost perfect. Similarly, the stability domains of an LB solution
calculated with the help of the functional mapping method and shown in figure 9 are in a good
agreement with those presented in figure 6. Small discrepancies in the two-parameter stability
diagrams can be explained by differences in the numerical continuation procedure. In particular,
the continuation of the LB solution can be performed only with a good initial guess, which we
accomplished as described in the previous subsection. On the other hand, numerical simulations
of the mapping procedure (3.5) are very fast, and it is more efficient to perform two-parameter
scans by finding a stable LB solution for each value of the linewidth enhancement factor and
then continuing it in go. It is seen from figure 9 that the latter approach fails to find a stable LB
around ag * 2 (figure 9a) and aq ~ 0.2 (figure 9b), whereas a slower continuation approach based
on direct numerical integration of equations (2.5)-(2.7) indicates that stable LBs exist in these
parameter domains (cf. figure 6). This discrepancy is related to the fact that at large differences
ag — aq it is hardly possible to excite stable LBs from an arbitrary initial condition not only by
using the functional mapping method, but also by solving numerically the NDDE system on the
full round trip time interval.


0.8 0.9 1.0 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95
8p (arb. units) 8p (arb. units)

Figure 9. Domains of existence of stable two-dimensional LBs obtained with the help of the functional mapping (3.5). Panel a
(b) is obtained by varying the parameters go and avg (cx,) with fixed a, = 0.5 (a¢g = 1.5). Other parameters are as in figure 5.
Colour code represents the energy of the pulse, SS |A(t, x)|? dx dt. White lines represent stability domain borders of the LBs
calculated using the Haus model [9], which are shifted to higher current with an offset 5g = 0.06. (Online version in colour.)