a new phase that spontaneously breaks the translational symmetry and generates longitudinal
modulations of the OP A,;(z, x), forming stripes along some direction in the plane of the film. It is
also possible that more complicated structures, made up from combinations of degenerate stripe
solutions, are stabilized by the higher order interaction terms.

The stability and structure of this phase can be traced to the existence of multiple
inhomogeneous configurations in multi-component superfluids. The two relevant configurations
for superfluid He are shown in figure 8a. Suppression of the transverse component Az-(z) =
A(z) at a pair-breaking surface can be mapped onto a domain wall in infinite space where this
component changes sign A) (z = +00) Aog- This domain wall configuration, which we may
call type-z, should be compared with another configuration, type-x, when the Az, component of
the OP changes along the plane of a (very thick, we can imagine) film. This latter configuration
costs less in terms of the free energy, see figure 8b and is, in fact, the lowest energy domain
wall configuration [63]. Although such states are not topologically stable in the bulk [63,64], the
confinement creates an environment where such configurations can appear to minimize the total
energy ina finite volume. The spectrum of the bound states reflects this interplay, and for the two
shown domain wall configurations is presented in figure 2.

In the film geometry, the trivial suppression of the A;,(z) across the film is due to reflection
Pz > —pz. This loss of the condensation energy, similar to that of type-z domain wall, can be
reduced by creating additional, type-x, modulation along the film, Azz(z,x), shown in figure 9a.
This extra modulation of the amplitude introduces an extra —1 factor for trajectories that
‘pounce’ off the film surface near x = 0, —Az:(—Pz)|(x<0) > Azz(Pz)|@>0), and ‘undoes’ the trivial
pair-breaking pz > —pz. The reduction of the pair-breaking appears as the energy gain around
the points where the domain wall encounters the surfaces of the film, shown in figure 9b. In