First, if there is an input error E with wt(E)=1 and no faults during the EC rounds, then all
three rounds will report the syndrome s(E) and the error will be corrected. Now suppose there
are no input errors but a single fault occurs during the EC. If the fault occurs during the first
round, then rounds two and three will produce the same syndrome and the resulting error will
be corrected. If the fault occurs during the third round, then the first two rounds will yield a
trivial syndrome and no correction will be applied. However, the output error must then be a
correctable error. Thus ideally decoding the output would result in the input state. Now if the
fault occurs during the second round, then all three syndromes could be different (depending
at which time step the error occurred). There is also the possibility that sz =s3. In both cases, a
correction corresponding to s3 would be applied removing all errors on the data. Hence, the first
criterion will be satisfied.

Lastly, we need to show that the second criterion is satisfied. In fact, we modify the second
criterion and demand that the output state differs from a valid codeword by an error which is
correctable by our ideal decoder (the ideal decoder is our Look-Up Table Decoder assuming no
further errors). As discussed, this could be an error of weight-2. This modification does not alter
the use of this condition in deriving fault tolerance [27].

In what follows, we will consider the case where the input error E has arbitrary weight. If
there are no faults during the EC, then all three syndromes will be equal to s(E). Hence applying
a correction E’ based on this syndrome will always project the code back to the code space
(ie. EE’ € N(S)). Now suppose there is a single fault during the first round of the EC. Then
the syndromes sj) =s3 will be the syndromes for the combined error E and the resulting
errors from the single fault during the first round. Thus correcting using s2 will always project
the code back to the code space. If the fault occurs during the second round, then, as in the