Charging w with ontological weight is therefore like charging with ontological weight a
distribution function of statistical physics, or the information I have about current political events:
a mistake that generates mysterious ‘collapses’ anytime there is an interaction. More specifically,
in the semiclassical approximation y ~ eS where S is a Hamilton-Jacobi function. This shows that
the physical nature of yy is the same as the physical nature of a Hamilton-Jacobi function. Nobody
in their right mind would charge S with ontological weight, in the context of classical mechanics:
S is a calculational device used to predict an outcome on the basis of an input. It ‘jumps’ at each
update of the calculation.
QM is thus not a theory of the dynamics of a mysterious y entity, from which mysteriously the
world of our experience emerges. It is a theory of the possible values that conventional physical
variables take at interactions, and the transition probabilities that determine which values are
likely to be realized, given that others are [26].
The fact that the quantum state is a bookkeeping device that cannot be charged with
ontological weight is emphasized by the following observation [16]. Say I know that at time f
a particle interacts with a x-oriented Stern—Gerlach device. Then I can predict that (if nothing else
happens in between) the particle has probability 3 to be up (or down) spinning, when interacting
with a z-oriented Stern—Gerlach device at time t’. Key point: this is true irrespectively of which
between ft and f’ comes earlier. Quantum probabilistic predictions are the same both forth and
back in time. So, what is the state of the particle in the time interval between ¢ and t'? Answer:
it depends only on what I know: if I know the past (respectively, future) value, I use the state to
bookkeep the future (respectively, past) value. The state is a coding of the value of the x spin that
allows me to predict the z spin, not something that the particle ‘has’. We can be realist about the


two values of the spin, not about the y in between, because y depends on a time orientation,