(of politicians and big business) and disregard for the poor [72]. This politicized response
contributed to food-related civil unrest in a number of countries in 2010-2011 [73]. In Pakistan,
where there were food-related riots in 2010 [73], food price rises were exacerbated by the floods,
which directly affected cotton, rice, wheat and sugar, and resulted in damage and losses of US$ 5
billion and zero growth in the sector [74].

In the UK, the upturn in commodity markets influenced food inflation, with approximately
a five-fold increase in food inflation in the latter half of 2010 [75]. Analysis of purchases in the
5 years from 2007 to 2011 [76] in the UK indicated that people bought 4.2% less food, but paid
12% more for it. The poorest 10% spent 17% more in 2011 than in 2007. There is evidence that
poor populations, for whom food represents a high proportion of household expenditure, also
traded down to save money by buying cheaper alternatives. However, in extremis, people simply
could not afford food. Use of emergency foodbanks increased nearly 50% in 2010 [77]. The fact
that global markets determine local prices highlights the importance of managing the balance of
risks between local people and people far away. A key cause of food price spikes comes from
governments reducing local risks (by instituting export bans to hedge against supply shortfalls),
at the expense of accelerating the global perceptions of likely shortfall, and global impacts.

Clearly, the issue of food security and response to climate affects all countries and parts of the
global food system, while the risks are manifest in different ways in food exporting countries,
countries with large poor populations, and countries that are concerned with food in terms of
price and affordability. Assessment of international dimensions of climate risk for the UK, for
example, highlights (in addition to opportunities, which are out of scope here) risks from extreme
weather abroad impacting supply chains and prices. However, risks arise not just from extremes,
but also from trends (see figure 1). Risks generated by climatic trends can be subtle and hence