ice-melt, drought and other impacts remain impressionistic. Maybe one reason we know so little
about the 1.5°C scenario is because, from a real-politics perspective, it seems so unlikely. In fact,
some researchers believe that ‘time has nearly run out’ for achieving the 2°C scenario [25]. (Even
in the unlikely event that all Parties under the Paris Agreement completely met their goals, we
might still be looking at 2.7°C of warming from pre-industrial levels [26].) That said, if there is
some plausible chance of hitting the 1.5°C (or 2°C) mark, it would be a mistake not to assess the
benefits and work towards them.

Add to this the fact that we still have only a vague idea of what a finalized loss-and-damage
programme would be capable of. And while we might be able to know what the goals of such
a programme should be (based on the moral grounding and on practical needs), we cannot say
what the goals, once agreed upon, will be. Will the programme command sufficient funds? Will it
address both risk reduction and after-the-fact recovery? Will the vexing ‘l-word’ (liability) be part
of the equation? Questions like these are not climate-controlled the way a home is. That is, the
answers will likely depend on how pronounced the impacts of climate change are estimated to be.
A robust loss-and-damage package that looks ‘doable’ in a 1.5°C world might seem impossible in
a 2°C world, leading decision-makers in the latter scenario to lower their expectations and choose
something more modest. Like everything else touching climate change, public policy is swaddled
in feedback loops.

But we are not completely adrift. There are some assumptions we can make about a loss-and-
damage programme, just as there are some assumptions we might cautiously make about the
difference between a 1.5°C world and a 2°C world. First, as a result of the Paris Agreement, we
know that loss and damage represent something close to a freestanding pillar in the climate-
policy forum. Its concerns are separate from mitigation, and it is ‘beyond adaptation’. Loss and