based Power-to-X technologies and CO2 captured from the atmosphere [43,44].

d) Sensitivity analysis of demand-side emissions reduction measures

Figure 3 shows final energy demand in the 1.5°C and 2°C SSP-based pathways from the four
IAMs. In contrast to carbon intensity, there is a large and overlapping spread of energy demand
developments in both sets of pathways (300-700 EJ/year by the end of century, ie. 75% to
75% of present day levels). This is due to the widely varying assumptions about population
and economic growth as well as resource efficiency and consumption patterns in the SSPs. On
the lower end marked by the sustainability narrative of SSP1, energy demand stabilizes below
present-day levels in the second half of the century despite an eightfold increase in average global
per capita income. This shows that the mitigation pathway literature includes low-energy-demand
scenarios [10,12,17] independently of the fact that demand-side mitigation measures are less well
represented in IAMs. It can be seen that 1.5°C pathways show a transitory drop in energy demand
triggered by the disruptive implementation of strong carbon pricing policies after 2020.

For the back-of-the-envelope sensitivity analysis of future final energy demand, we develop
separate projections for future gross domestic product (GDP) growth and energy intensity of
economic activity. In the SSP-based pathways, the global gross world product (GWP) measured in
units of purchasing power parity (PPP) grows at approximately 4% per year in the period 2010-
2020 and at an average of approximately 2.3% per year over the century in SSP1 and SSP2 [45].
Both SSPs reach similar end-of-century GWP values of 540 trillion dollars (SSP2) to 565 trillion
dollars (SSP1), but with very different population levels of 9 billion (SSP2) and 6.8 billion (SSP1),
respectively. An intermediate GWP trajectory between SSP1 and SSP2 can be derived by assuming
that economic growth falls to a third of its 2020 value by the end of the century?.