to do physics in a safe way, one would like to require that cluster decomposition holds [15]. :
Cluster decomposition, in basic terms, is the property of physical theories according to which 2S
the experiments in two distant laboratories can be weakly correlated if the sites are separated by 28
a long distance. Its importance is that if it does not hold, one may need information about huge .
regions of the Universe to predict the outcome of local experiments. This would jeopardize the
possibility of studying physical phenomena locally.
Besides, it seems hard to imagine that a non-local theory can be causal if one imposes
Lorentz invariance. This follows from the possibility to perform a boost transformation turning
non-locality in space into non-locality in time. Lorentz invariance is normally assumed to be a
fundamental symmetry. This is based on very tight constraints on deviations [16], but there
is nothing logically wrong in lifting it. The amount of new structures that are possible in a
comprehensive effective field theory expansion about the SM (and General Relativity) seems
formidable, and many have been constrained [17]. The fact that none of them seems necessary
to describe our observations of Nature makes us believe that there is something fundamental
about Lorentz invariance. Lorentz invariance is also at the basis of General Relativity. However,
this great degree of symmetry is a big obstacle to build a perturbative quantum field theory of
gravity in four dimensions. A concrete idea improving the quantum properties of gravity in four
dimensions by relaxing Lorentz invariance is Hofava gravity [18-21]. Lorentz invariance can be
broken fundamentally or spontaneously [22]. The challenge is to explain why the SM satisfies
Lorentz invariance to such a high accuracy if it is not a fundamental symmetry. There are ideas in
this direction, but no completely satisfactory mechanism is known [16]. If Lorentz invariance is
not satisfied, CPT can be violated in unitary theories. This may be important if one wants to find
theories where matter and antimatter have different properties.
Finally, the equivalence principle, the fact that all interactions of the SM fields with charges
related to the energy-momentum tensor are universal, is a foundational assumption of General