between the two electrons is difficult to capture accurately numerically. Scattering calculations
for helium, and heavier atoms, therefore often employ some effective one-electron model for the
atom, or at least neglect correlation. This works reasonably well for single ionization at energies
above 50 keV [3], but does not work for double ionization.

At lower energies there is an additional problem with the one-active-electron model. The
attraction between the antiproton and the nucleus will make it possible for the antiproton to
penetrate also the inner electron core, even in the limit of zero collision energy. When this happens
all of the electrons in the atom will be strongly perturbed.

In figure 4, I compare the semi-classical one-active-electron calculations of antiproton capture
and of ionization [21] to FMD calculations of the same processes [22]. As suggested by the
author, the results in [21] were multiplied by 2 to account for the fact that either of the electrons
could participate in the collision. For the capture process, there are also results from a quantum
mechanical calculation, also in the one-active-electron approximation by Tong et al. [23]. While
methods based on a classical description of the atom, such as FMD, of course do not give a fully
realistic description of the atomic structure, they have the advantage that they do include all
particles on the same footing. Thus all correlations are included, albeit only on a classical level.

Below the ionization threshold (24.6eV), the FMD and semi-classical results agree fairly
well. Unfortunately though, the quantum calculation, which, at least in principle, should be
more accurate than the semi-classical, gives a significantly smaller cross section. Just above
the ionization threshold the FMD and semi-classical approaches differ significantly. This is not
surprising because the final state of the reaction involves a low-energy electron, which should
not be well described classically. At higher energies, the results of the two methods again seem