the four-dimensional Yukawa couplings depend exponentially on the bulk mass parameter. RS
models are holographic duals of four-dimensional strongly coupled theories. In this picture, the
Higgs is part of the composite sector. The size of the Yukawa couplings is then determined by the
degree of compositeness of the states that are identified with the SM fermions. Indeed fermions
localized near the UV brane are dual to mainly elementary states leading to small Yukawas while
fermions localized near the IR brane map to mainly composite states with correspondingly large
Yukawas.

In the usual picture, the bulk mass parameter is assumed to be constant. On the other hand, it
is quite well motivated to consider that this bulk mass is dynamical and generated by coupling
the fermions to a bulk scalar field which in turn obtains a VEV. We can then expect a position-
dependent bulk mass as this VEV is generically not constant along the extra dimension. In
fact, the simplest mechanism for radion stabilization, due to Goldberger & Wise [36], consists
in introducing a bulk scalar field which obtains a VEV from potentials on the two branes. The
most minimal scenario to dynamically generate the bulk mass is then to use this bulk scalar.
Interestingly, during the process of radion stabilisation, the profile of the Goldberger—Wise scalar
VEV changes. When the latter is coupled to the fermions, this induces a change in the bulk masses
of the fermions which in turn affects their wave function overlap with the Higgs on the IR brane
and thus the Yukawa couplings. The RS model with bulk fermions therefore naturally allows
for a scenario of varying Yukawa couplings during the EW phase transition. The cosmological
dynamics of Yukawa couplings in this context was studied in [3].

The emergence of the EW scale in RS models comes during the stabilisation of the size of the
Ads&s slice. At high temperatures, the thermal plasma deforms the geometry and the IR brane is
replaced by a black hole horizon. Going to lower temperatures, eventually a phase transition takes