the conventional lower bound on the order of 1% for the absolute stability bound. While we
have considered here the influence of only one ¢°-type operator as an example, similar features
occur, for instance, upon the inclusion of higher-order fermionic operators [30,31] or mixed
operators [32] as well as in theories with additional scalar fields, e.g. dark matter candidates [47].
Most of the quantitative studies so far have explored only initial conditions which are already
sufficiently close to the Gaussian fixed point. We emphasize that it remains an interesting open
question to study how far the true consistency bounds can be pushed if also strongly coupled
regions are included in the analysis. The functional RG advocated in this work is ideally suited
for this problem.

As even the conventional estimates are compatible with a metastable but sufficiently long-
lived Higgs vacuum state, it is a legitimate question as to whether there is any relevant difference
for contemporary phenomenology, depending on which scenario is ultimately realized. In fact,
the interplay between stability, metastability and cosmology is currently actively studied within
various cosmological models [42,48-52]. If such considerations favored absolute stability but
the tension with the observed Higgs mass and the conventional bounds persisted, this could
point to new physics below the Planck scale (according to the conventional interpretation) or


correspond to a first measurement of properties of the microscopic action with a sufficiently deep
consistency bound. With respect to cosmology, also the thermal evolution of the Higgs potential is
of substantial interest. In this respect, higher-dimensional operators can also exert an influence on
the nature of the thermal phase transition, as has already been observed in lattice simulations [53].
It is an interesting question as to whether the set of bare actions contains relevant microscopic
initial conditions for which the electroweak phase transition is sufficiently strongly first order