this second pass, each link will have seen one message pass in each direction, and each node will
have received sufficient information to be able to compute its marginal distribution, conditioned
on any observed variables. Again, the computational cost scales linearly in the size of the graph.
A particular instance of this algorithm is the forward—backward algorithm for finding the posterior
marginals in an HMM, used to learn the parameters of the model [5]. Another special case is given
by the Kalman filter (forward pass) and Kalman smoother (backward pass) algorithms for linear
dynamical systems [1,11].

For graphs with loops, the situation is more complex. Exact inference can still be performed
using techniques such as the junction tree algorithm [16], but the computational cost can become
prohibitive, depending on the structure of the graph. An alternative approach, known as loopy
belief propagation [17], uses the same message-passing technique as discussed earlier for tree-
structured graphs, but simply iterates the messages to allow for the fact that, with loops present,
a standard two-pass schedule does not lead to exact marginals. Although this process may seem
ad hoc, it has been found to yield good results in many applications.

So far, we have assumed that the local messages at each node can be computed exactly.
While this is typically true for discrete nodes, for other distributions, a closed-form evaluation
of the messages is often not possible, and it becomes necessary to resort to approximations.
One class of approximation scheme is based on sampling using techniques such as Markov chain
Monte Carlo (MCMC) [18]. A very simple, though widely applicable, MCMC method is Gibbs
sampling. Two advantages of Monte Carlo methods are their broad applicability to a wide range
of distributions, and that many of them asymptotically give exact inference in the limit of infinite
compute resources. In practice, however, Monte Carlo methods are computationally expensive,
and typically do not scale to the large datasets encountered in many technological applications,