
Let us especially note that a number of crystallization processes occurring in nature
and industry essentially depend on the stochastic fluctuations induced by different physical
parameters (so, for instance, the atmospheric temperature fluctuations on the ice surface or the
fluid velocity oscillations in the under ice oceanic boundary layer may be mentioned as such
examples). The nonlinear dynamics of crystallization with a mushy layer under the influence of
stochastic parameters is investigated in the paper presented by Ryashko and co-workers [49].
Here a pronounced effect of stochastic fluctuations (caused by the atmospheric temperature
and fluid friction velocity) on the crystallization dynamics is studied. The rapid unpredictable
stochastic changes in different system parameters lead to the unusual noise-induced solidification
scenarios in the mushy layer as well as at its boundaries, ‘solid phase-mushy layer’ and ‘mushy
layer-liquid phase’. One of the main conclusions following from this research article consists in
the fact that the presence of noise drastically changes the mushy layer dynamics compared with
the classical deterministic scenario [50,51]. This paper presents an area of research in the nonlinear
dynamics of crystallization processes—a phenomenon of stochastically induced shifts of different
dynamical dependencies in a mushy layer.

The evolutionary theory of the curved solid—liquid interface, which, in many cases, precedes
the mushy layer appearance, is analysed in the concluding overview [52]. In this paper, the
boundary integral theory describing the propagation of arbitrarily curved phase interfaces is
developed. Intrinsically, this theory gives the solution to the Stefan thermodiffusion problem with
a curved solid—liquid interface in the form of a single integro-differential equation. The theory
generalizes the evolutionary behaviour of slow (parabolic heat and mass transfer) and rapid
(hyperbolic mass transfer) curvilinear fronts. The integro-differential equation for the interface
function for solidifying binary non-isothermal mixtures is analysed. Analytically, a thermo-solutal