providing transition from the nano-length periodic pattern (described by the regular PFC :
equation of the sixth order in space) to a monotonically smoothing mesoscale pattern (described
by the AEq which already has the second order in space). This procedure is based on the
renormalization group theory and was developed analytically by Goldenfeld et al. [5,6]. As a
result of this procedure, one can formulate a physical meaning of the classical phase field as a non-
conserved order parameter: the phase field is a smooth envelope of the atomic density maxima of
a given crystalline symmetry. In this sense, properties of the phase field can be measured (in the
form of its mobility, gradient factor and relaxation time) in natural or computational experiments.

Shiwa [40] established a discussion about the correctness of the Goldenfeld et al. analysis [5,6]
applied to the PFC equation for obtaining the respective AEq. First, Shiwa has found a small
analytical mistake in the AGD analysis, which does not influence the final result for AEq [41].
Second, Shiwa stressed the fact that the ADG analysis fails in the description of mode coupling.
Mote specifically, because the PFC equation describes conserved dynamics, the amplitude of slow
neutral modes at zero wavenumber should be coupled with the modes at the critical wavenumber
behind which a homogeneous state becomes unstable. This second issue of zeroth mode for
conserved dynamics has also been successfully resolved [42] in obtaining the AEq of the PFC
equation.

For practical use of AEgs, it is important to know what they are missing compared with the
regular PFC equation. In addition to losing mode coupling [40,42], the other problem is the lack
of barriers between boundaries [43]. AEqs are also missing instantaneous mechanical equilibrium
(as is the full PFC equation) [44]. To avoid these inconsistences arising in the transition from the
regular PFC equation to its AEqs, a more complete approach up to all orders of multiple scale
expansion can be used (see Sect. III of Huang et al. [45]).