sulfate content, while hydrolysis temperature had a moderate effect and hydrolysis time had a
negligible effect. Chen et al. [19] showed that acid concentration has the most drastic effect on CNC
sulfate content, though hydrolysis time and temperature were also shown to be important factors.
At low acid concentrations, the effects of hydrolysis time were shown to be more significant,
as the formation of sulfate half-esters on CNC surfaces occurs relatively slowly. At high acid
concentrations, the effects of time are less significant, as CNC sulfate content increases sharply
and levels off [19]. The strong effect of acid concentration on the sulfate content for CNCs
hydrolysed with sulfuric acid is directly related to the fact that sulfuric acid is a strong acid and
is known to catalyse the esterification of cellulose [54].


As mentioned, CNCs hydrolysed with phosphoric acid have roughly one-tenth of the surface
charge density of those hydrolysed with sulfuric acid. This is likely related to the fact that
phosphoric acid is a weaker acid that is not entirely dissociated in solution and does not catalyse
esterification to the same extent as sulfuric acid. Furthermore, to reach the same Ht concentration
in the reaction as is present with approximately 65 wt% sulfuric acid (the most common protocol
[55]) would require a phosphoric acid concentration over 15 M (assuming a dissociation constant
of ca 0.618 [56]); this concentration would dissolve cellulose [34]. (The ratio of ionic species from
phosphoric acid dissociation at high concentrations and high temperatures is also somewhat
debated [57,58].) We can also infer that our hydrolysis never reaches the same severity in terms of
acid concentration, because we do not observe a significant levelling off or decrease in phosphate
content, as has been observed with sulfuric acid. Finally, the small changes in phosphate content
overall may be a result of insignificant changes in Ht concentration over the 70-75 wt% range
of acid conditions tested. The hydrolysis time and temperature have far more significant effects
on phosphate content within this DOE. From these results, we conclude that the most significant