L f 1 L 2 1 1 \ f
1500 2000 =~. 2500 3000 3500 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500
T(K) T(K)

Figure 1. The locations of key thermodynamics anomaly loci and related properties for (a) a SW potential appropriate to model
Si (A = 21), and (b,c) an ionic model for BeF, in which the anion polarizability is set to zero ((b), corresponding to a RIM) and
in which @ = 5.0 au (c). All are shown in the p7 plane. In (a,b), the identities of the specific lines and points are indicated by
the legends. In (a), the dashed cyan and black lines show the extrapolation of the TminD and TMD loci at high pressure. The
identities of the lines in (c) are equivalent to those in (b). (Online version in colour.)

spanned by all structural (positional) degrees of freedom. The amorphous phases live on a subset
of this surface (a subspace) defined by a limited set of configurational variables accessible inside
this amorphous phase. This is due to the fact that ergodicity is hindered globally in both cases, for
the amorphous phase and for parts of the phase diagram in the supercooled liquid state. However,
the amorphous state is just a part of the overall disordered states free energy surface that is again
locally hindered from exploring the whole disordered free energy surface.

Figure 1 shows a limited range of thermodynamic anomalies obtained for the BeF,2 RIM
(i.e. a =0—(b)) and the same model with a =5au (c). In both cases the TMD locus avoids
intersection with the stability limit (and hence the SL gradient does not become zero). Again, the
intersection of the respective density and compressibility anomalies occurs at the infinitely sloped
part of the TMD. The TMC + TminC crossover occurs at a temperature just below the TMD locus
for the RIM (corresponding to scenario TEC-I). For the higher polarizability model the crossover
shifts to lower temperature. The range of the thermodynamic phase space in which anomalies
are observed appears narrower for the electrostatic models than for the covalent models. The