reaction (step (b1)), where a proton from the methyl group is transferred to the surface, forming : 2
a hydroxyl and a 1,1-ene-diolate species (intermediate 1). Alternatively (step (b2)), the acetate : XS
molecule undergoes deoxygenation, forming an acyl species (intermediate 2) and an OH™ group : _
bound to a surface cation. In step (c), the enolate and acyl intermediates 1 and 2, respectively, :4y
combine to form a 6-keto acid ion, namely the 3-oxo-butyrate in the case of acetic acid reaction. : =

The ketonization of carboxylic acids on anatase and rutile TiO2 and monoclinic and tetragonal : =
ZrO2 has been considered recently in a very detailed and extended theoretical-experimental : &

study by Wang and Iglesia [10]. The main conclusion of this work is that ketonization turnover
rates are much higher on m-ZrOp, t-ZrO7 and a-TiO2 than on r-TiO); the reason lies in the
particular cation—cation distances that stabilize the bidentate bonding mode of acetate compared
to the monodentate species. At very high coverages, in fact, the less stable monodentate acetate
ion becomes the key reactive intermediate, while the more stable bidentate molecules only act
as spectators [10]. In this work, it was also shown that pre-treatment in Hp of a-TiO? at 543K
did not result in changes in ketonization rates, indicating that either reduced centres do not form
during the treatment or that they do not play a role in the reaction. This is different from what was
reported by Pham et al., who showed that the ketonization activity increases with a reductive pre-
treatment of a Ru/TiO2 catalyst, and it drops when the reduced catalyst is exposed to O2 before
the reaction [8,15]. This could be interpreted as an essential role of the supported metal particle
in the reduction process, consistent with the results presented here about hydrogen spillover
(see below). It is also possible that the role of reduced centres is important at low coverages
of carboxylic acids, while at high coverage geometrical effects dominate over electronic effects
associated with reduction.
