of approximations and simplifications is employed therefore to reach models of more practical 3
value. These are guided at least in part by conceptual notions that distinguish chemistry from 7S
other quantum systems. Among these are constraints such as the immutability of atomic nuclei : Ss
and the idea that chemical reactions comprise only a redistribution of electrons. On the formal 1p
side, the Born-Oppenheimer approximation [2] stipulates a complete separation of the wave : =
function of nuclei and electrons and leads to the concept of the potential energy surface (PES) that : S
explains molecular geometries and provides a consistent—if not completely accurate—view of [a
chemical reactions as classical paths of nuclear coordinates on the PES. The PES itself is the result :8
of solving the Schrédinger equation with nuclear coordinates and charges as parameters [3,4]. : S
Quantum chemistry (QC) has developed a plethora of computational schemes for this purpose, is

typically trading off accuracy for computational resource consumption. Among them in particular
are the so-called semi-empirical methods that use the fact that the chemical bonds are usually
formed by pairs of electrons to decompose the electronic wave function into contributions of
electron pairs.

Molecular modelling (MM) and molecular dynamics (MD) [5,6] abandon quantum mechanics
altogether and instead treat chemical bonds akin to classical springs. Sacrificing accuracy, MM
and MD can treat macromolecules and supramolecular complexes that are well outside the reach
of exact and even semi-empirical quantum-chemical methods. For special classes of molecules,
even coarser approximations have been developed. Many properties of aromatic ring systems, for
instance, can be explained in terms of graph-theoretical models known as Hiickel theory [7,8]. For
nucleic acids, on the other hand, models have been developed that aggregate molecular building
blocks (nucleotides) into elementary objects so that Watson—Crick base pairs become edges in the
graph representation [9].