cycle network in all the states comprised by its biological sequence. To contrast these results with : -
standard functionalist approaches, we also analyse the backbone motif of the cell-cycle network : =
[9], the minimal set of edges required to maintain biological function. Here, function is defined : 4
as reproducing the biological sequence of states associated with the real cell-cycle trajectory. : 2
There are nine states in the biological sequence (figure 1b); however, the second state cannot :3
be reached from within the eight-node system if SK is treated as a background condition. This : es

means that this state has no causes from within the system (it is caused by the external element
SK) and thus has undefined intrinsic cause-effect power. We thus restrict our analysis to the eight
well-defined states.

The dynamic analysis reveals the cell-cycle network to be robustly integrated. Over the course
of the biological sequence, the full cell-cycle network of eight elements is integrated and, in fact, a
local maximum of ¢ in all eight states (figure 4a). In each state, the cause-effect structure contains
eight first-order mechanisms, one for each element in the system. In addition, there are always
high-order mechanisms in the cause-effect structure, as few as 10 for fy and as many as 111 at ty
(figure 4b). Note, however, that the full network is not necessarily an integrated whole for states
outside the biological sequence. For example, in the state where only SK is active, the system has
only a single local maximum consisting of six elements {Cdc2/13, Ste9, Slp1, Cdce2/13*, Cdc25,
PP}. The identified robust integration during the biological sequence is thus not simply the result
of the model’s network structure, but rather the specific state-dependent causal mechanisms that
provide intrinsic control.

Moreover, in contrast to the full network, the backbone network (figure 4c) is not an integrated
whole (# =0). The largest integrated subsystem of the backbone network contains six nodes