In terms of other clinical trials, thermal ablation (hyperthermia) has also been a key
development area and may point to some of the other types of particles that may be repurposed
for imaging and targeting. The use of silica/gold nanoparticles (Aurolase) in lung tumours and
iron oxide nanoparticles (Magnablate) in prostate tumours are examples of this application [55].
Although not reflected in current clinical data due to the long lag between development and trial,
current preclinical results indicate that small particles that actively target the tumour vasculature
are most likely to be translated in future, relying on MR and radionuclide imaging to demonstrate
targeting efficacy.

(b) Factors to consider for clinical translation

Although nanoparticles and nanotechnology have caught the public interest, both in fact and in
fiction, there are valid concerns about their use which need to be considered [64]. Regulatory
and public bodies are particularly concerned about toxicity, and the impact on the environment
of such formulations [65]. Any planned clinical translational project will need to mitigate these
issues and provide the data required to ensure both that the concerns of public bodies are fully
addressed but also that the system has been appropriately optimized in the preclinical setting [66].
At this stage the particle size effects and biodistribution can be determined using imaging
techniques. It is also becoming much clearer to regulators what they should be looking for in
a dataset. Imaging is the key technology that will facilitate rapid translation by providing much
of the ADME data in animal models and informing early phase (phase 0) trials. It is also worth
considering that there are challenges in the production and manufacturing of nanomedicines [51],
including the subtle effects of physical conditions on the variability of the particle properties and
there are few facilities appropriately tooled for the production of such materials in bulk to good
manufacturing practice standards.