While the current study relies heavily on sensitivity experiments with a single, relatively
coarse-resolution earth system model of intermediate complexity, future research will have to
address and hopefully reduce the large uncertainties that remain about the degree of realism
in the model description of these individual mechanisms that may have been responsible for


observed changes in marine oxygen concentrations. The process that was found to generate
the largest changes in simulated oxygen trends was variability in the wind forcing, including
forcing prior to the observational period. Better observational constraints on winds before the
1960s will help to yield more robust simulations of oxygen changes during the 50 years between
1960 and 2010. Information contained, for example, in ship logbooks, re-analyses combining
historical pressure data and dynamical models, and proxy information may all help to improve
the historical wind products. The fact that current models do not seem to be able to reproduce
the patterns of thermocline oxygen changes that have been identified by decades of high-quality
oxygen observations is a scientific challenge that has to be resolved in order to raise confidence
in our models’ reliability when it comes to simulating the response, and possible feedbacks, of
biogeochemical cycles to expected future environmental change.

Data accessibility. CMIP5 model data have been obtained from the Earth System Grid Federation (ESGF) CMIP5 as)

repository (e.g. http://cmip-pemdi-lInl.gov /cmip5/data_portal.html) and have been accessed in February =
2014. All own model output reported in this article is available via http: / /thredds.geomar.de. Sy
Authors’ contributions. A.O. conceived the study and drafted the manuscript. S.S. analysed the historical oxygen : 2
data; W.K. analyzed and resampled the CMIP5 modelled oxygen fields; J.G. and A.L. ran UVic model Dy
simulations; O.D. ran NEMO simulations. All authors contributed to the analysis, discussion and writing : _