that it offers a solution to the optimal stopping problem rooted in the classical theory of optimal
stopping but does not require the ex ante identification of the Itd process driving the system.
Rather, the analysis is based directly on the observed data. This reduces the problem of ‘model
risk’ resulting from basing decisions on theoretical, canonical processes that have no relation to
the phenomenon of interest. While developed in relation to the power markets, this innovative
methodology has the potential to be applied to a range of real-world problems.

Despite a proliferation in papers describing representational models to address the optimal
operation of power storage facilities in the engineering literature, summaries can be found in [5]
or [6], there has been relatively little interest in the contemporary economics literature. There is
a larger body of economic and financial research investigating gas storage, such as [7-12]. An
explanation for the imbalance in research into gas storage and electricity storage could lie in
the fact that electricity prices, unlike gas prices, are typically regarded as exhibiting jumps [13]
and the mathematical theory of the control of jump diffusions is still immature. Jumps in the
electricity price can be explained as occurring when the load crosses one of the discontinuities in
the, so-called, merit order curve (MOC). The MOC, or ‘stack’, is a mapping of load to price. It is
constructed by ranking different power generators based on the ascending order of the price the
generators bid to deliver a specific quantity of power; it is a monotone increasing non-continuous
(staircase) function (figure 1).

The relationship between the actual price paid for power and the MOC is not straightforward;
however, it provides a useful mechanism for converting load, which can be modelled as a
continuous process, into an estimate of the average price paid to power suppliers for a given
power load; this is an approach taken in [14]. The pay-off of charging/discharging a storage
facility will be based on the time integral of the product of the charge/discharge rate and the