of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or carbon dioxide (COz) combined with elemental sulfur (8°) and
dissolved halide ions such as chlorides or bromides in the aqueous phase. Deep wells that
have corrosive environments in combination with HTHP conditions require the use of high-
strength materials with sufficient corrosion resistance. In these wells, the use of high-strength
LASs is not an option due to their excessive corrosion rates and, at low temperatures, due
to their susceptibly to sulfide stress cracking (SSC) and to hydrogen-induced stress corrosion
cracking. Ni alloys, which have excellent corrosion resistance, are, therefore, selected for this
type of demanding application, especially when H2S-containing streams are involved. Ni
alloys, particularly those that are precipitation hardenable (PH), are indeed the most used
engineering materials for heavy wall completion equipment in HPHT sour wells and deep
subsea production equipment due to their high strength, ductility and toughness over a
broad range of temperatures. All this is combined with exceptional SSC and stress corrosion
cracking (SCC) resistance, which becomes, in fact, one of the most relevant limiting factors
for high-strength super-austenitic and duplex stainless steels when considered as alternatives
to LASs.

Table 1 includes the most common PH Ni alloys used in oilfield technology. As shown in
table 1, these alloys contain significant amounts of chromium (Cr) and molybdenum (Mo) to
guarantee chemical stability in corrosive environments. In addition, alloying elements such as
niobium (Nb), titanium (Ti) and aluminium (Al) are used to increase the strength in these alloys
via precipitation hardening. In this regard, thermo-mechanical processing and heat treatments
have been engineered for these alloys to maximize their strength-to-corrosion resistance ratio.
PH Ni alloys exhibit a complex microstructure. While the fine cubic face-centred Ni3(Al, Ti) y’
(L12 ordered) and Ni3Nb y” (D022 ordered) precipitates are responsible for the high strength in
these alloys, the orthorhombic Ni3Nb 5-phase (DO, ordered), Ni3Ti n-phase (D024 ordered), the