
(a) Existing studies and mechanisms

NASA [2] categorized numerous metallic materials into four specific grades, according to their
individual susceptibility to high-pressure hydrogen gas. For instance, in the guidelines, austenitic
stainless steels with a face-centred cubic (FCC) structure (e.g. Types 316 and 310) are classified as
being ‘negligibly-embrittled’ or ‘slightly-embrittled’. On the other hand, martensitic and ferrite—
pearlite steels with a body-centred tetragonal/body-centred cubic structure (e.g. AISI 1042 and
AISI 1020) are characterized as ‘severely-embrittled’ or ‘extremely-embrittled’. Figure 1 shows the
relative tensile strength (RTS), ogH2/oBHe, and the relative reduction of area (RRA), $H2/¢He, as
functions of the TS of the material. Regardless of the susceptibility, the RTS values remain at ~1.0
in the TS regime up to +1000 MPa, although the ductility represented by the RRA is significantly
dependent on the material type, as demonstrated in figure 1. Based on such experimental facts,
moderate-strength steels with TS <1000MPa are generally selected for use in high-pressure
hydrogen components, the main focus of this paper.

The FCG behaviour in metallic materials under the influence of hydrogen has been studied by
several researchers [3-16]. They have reported on a host of materials in which the FCG accelerates
in a hydrogen gas environment and under hydrogen charging, whereas little acceleration has
been noted in others, including stable, austenitic stainless steels and aluminium alloys. It has also
been pointed out that, while the degree of influence is dependent on the material in question,
the hydrogen-induced FCG acceleration is dominated by various influencing factors, namely, test
frequency, hydrogen pressure, stress ratio, etc. It is widely believed that the acceleration is caused
by hydrogen atoms that have dissolved in the crack-tip zone. Although the hydrogen decohesion
hypothesis is one of the primary theories presumed to explain FCG acceleration [17,18], numerous