3 and 4 (unlike in scenarios 1 and 2) in order to transfer power from remote areas to the load
centre. In the first epoch when the investment cost of solar power generation remains relatively
high, wind power plants are built in all scenarios.

Table 4 presents the results per epoch and scenario determined by the risk-neutral stochastic
model. In contrast to the above deterministic case, this table demonstrates that in no scenario is
there any conventional network investment needed to cope with the uncertainty levels faced by
the planner in the first epoch. Indeed, the model determines that epoch 1 is too early to decide
whether to invest in a long power line (commissioned at the beginning of epoch 2) that may
end up stranded under the realization of scenarios 1 and 2 where solar power emerges right at
the location of consumption. Rather, the stochastic approach chooses to ‘wait and see’ and thus
potential network congestions (under scenarios 3 and 4) are managed in the operational time scale
through smart technologies such as FACTS/QB devices that can be chosen and quickly installed
right in epoch 2. This solution is complemented later on with a battery storage plant to face larger
amounts of wind power that materialize towards the end of the analysed planning horizon, also
considering the drop in cost of batteries in the meantime.

It is important to point out that table 3 shows the costs associated with the best expansion plan
for each scenario considered by the planner to characterize the uncertain future. In contrast, the
solution summarized in table 4 corresponds to the investment plan performing best on average
for the scenario set under consideration. In other words, the costs reported in table 3 will only
be incurred if the corresponding scenario actually materializes. Otherwise, the costs associated
with such expansion plans may significantly differ should other scenarios occur. Moreover, the
expected total costs for the deterministic solutions summarized in table 3 are greater than or equal
to that of the optimal stochastic solution. Table 5 presents the total costs per scenario and the