
Figure 13. In the high-hardness regime, alloy A6-4135MLV exhibits the lowest NFS»; 2y values, whereas alloy A2-5140 exhibits
the highest NFSoq1.2y values. By extrapolation, the difference between the two alloys can reach as high as 10% NFS12y, which
is also a significant difference in susceptibility. (Online version in colour.)

improved formability by reducing carbon while also enhancing hardenability, thus compensating
for lower carbon [27,28]. The addition of a significant concentration of hydrogen does not reveal
any obvious difference in NFS»,; 9y between alloy A8-10B21 and other alloys. This observation
is explained by the high concentration of hydrogen under cathodic charging. In such conditions,
where the material is effectively being saturated with hydrogen, any difference in initial residual
hydrogen concentration is comparatively negligible.

It should be noted that the results for alloy A8-10B21 are limited by the fact that samples could
not be produced at hardness above 42 HRC. This hardness limit due to the lower carbon content
also means that A8-10B21 samples produced at 42 HRC (M29, M30) are in the near-as-quenched
condition. In other words, they have not undergone any significant degree of tempering. It
is, therefore, reasonable to assume that these materials are characterized by higher dislocation
densities than for other alloys at similar hardness. On the other hand, they are also likely to be
characterized by lower carbide precipitate volume fractions due to (i) absence of tempering and
(ii) absence of alloying elements. From this analysis, it can be stated that the effects of tempering,
notably dislocation reduction followed by precipitation, when considered in isolation from other
factors, are not sufficient to predict either an increase or a decrease in HE susceptibility.

Alloy A4-10B38 is a carbon—boron steel similar to A8-10B21, but with nearly double the carbon
concentration. Despite the higher carbon concentration and correspondingly higher hardness, the