particle, are accelerated in the electric field down towards the target and, similar to the particle
impact on collection, are de-accelerated due to the rolling friction [25].

The negative TOF-SIMS mode matrix scan on the glued cluster particle Sigrid resulted in
fragmentation of the particle and the ensuing classification as a shattered cluster agglomerate.
Similar to Andrzej, this is most likely due to the electrical forces caused by the charging and
the applied electric field. The fragments are less scattered and closer to the main particle and
the resulting shattered cluster agglomerate appears to be flat. The shape of the particle Sigrid is
altered, but the volume seems to be the same before and after the negative mode TOF-SIMS matrix
scans, similar to Andrzej. Neither Andrzej nor Sigrid nor any other particle was fragmented or
further fragmented just by the application of the electric field. The charging due to the primary :
ion beam is essential for particle fragmentation. Ensuing positive TOF-SIMS mode matrix scans [=
did not visibly alter either particle morphology any further. This might be due to the fact that the :3
particles have been already fragmented during the prior negative mode TOF-SIMS matrix scans :
and no further fragmentation could be caused by the ensuing positive TOF-SIMS mode matrix DB
scans with the same primary ion beam settings. :

The short negative TOF-SIMS mode sequential spectra on particle Lou revealed that the first 14
visible alteration of the particle required between 3516 and 14069 primary ion beam shots or ae
the charge collected by the time of fracture being about 75-300 uC m~?, based on a 7nAcm~? [ae
primary ion beam current. After 250 000 shots a significant fragmentation is observed. The particle ee
fragmentation has occurred next to the tip of the particle. This could be due to the tip of the .
particle being in the region of the primary ion beam footprint and/or the exposed position on the
tip of the particle. Particle elements detach once the electrostatic repulsive forces are greater than
the sum of the van der Waals forces and the electrostatic attracting forces. The fragment elements