materials provide for basic human needs and enable development, they can also represent objects
of fulfilment and gratification or sometimes substitute for the real objects of desire. They may
represent immortality! through their durability, or status, or convenience, or security. They can
delight and amuse. And the inclination to possess still more things has been written about,
often with a warning, throughout history. The Greek myth about King Midas is a warning about
avarice, and one of the Ten Commandments warns against coveting thy neighbours’ possessions.
Yet the struggle with human acquisitiveness continues with business models finding it to their
advantage to offer still more, and consumers finding it difficult to resist. Marketing focuses on
how people justify these acquisitions, and packages their products to make clear how deserving
you are to commit this one additional act of consumption [6]. The interplay between wealth and
increased consumption has been written about extensively [7,8] diagnosed and analysed [9,10]
with the pathological consequences documents [11] yet little changes in these patterns of human
acquisitiveness. In fact, Adam Smith’s famous ‘invisible hand’ justifies these potential excesses
as a virtue [12]. These basic impulses greatly complicate any attempt to modify our consumption
and to turn society away from increased consumption.

The result of these complex interactions has been a steady growth in materials used by human
society. A recent report from OECD [13] shows materials growing exponentially at 2.3% a year
from 1980 to 2010. This growth rate is less than the growth in GDP, but higher than the growth
in population. The estimated total of 72Gt per year is large enough to rival global geological
phenomena [14,15]. With current population at about 7.3 billion people, this means the average
material intensity for a person on this planet is about 10t per cap. As will be discussed, further
industrialization, under a business as usual scenario, could double this number.

Of central concern are the carbon emissions associated with this high level of materials use. For