we do not attempt to get the optimal «, it is enough to do this only for some discrete set of h,
which has 0 as its limit point and has the property that neighbouring h differ at most by a factor
of 2. In practice, we will eventually restrict our attention to values of such that h°-1/? is an
integer, where the value of 6 is close to 0. To simplify the notation, we drop the subscript / from
the deformation to be constructed, writing (u, w) rather than (uj, wp).

Our construction is guided by the proof of the lower bound. The basic idea is to modify the
minimizer (vj, @),) of Fy, by wrinkling where necessary, and estimate the increase in the energy
due to wrinkling. Using (3.14), the amount of arclength we need to waste at each circle (together
with the optimal length scale of wrinkling) can be read off from (vj, wp). Nevertheless, learning
from the proof of the lower bound we anticipate that we should not really use wrinkling with the
optimal period, as it will be costly to change this period too often—B(r) would then be too large
(in fact of order O(1)). Anyway, as we explained in §2, it is not necessary for the wavenumber k
to take the ‘optimal’ value att yyh at radius r. Rather, what matters is that |hk/r — a! ¢/kh| be at
most of order h/?. We shall achieve this by making the wrinkling modes appear /disappear over
length scales of order h!/. It takes some time to motivate the construction. We shall explain the
key ideas in two passes.

First pass. Our first pass is unsuccessful, but still informative. As noted above, we propose to
use just choices of k that are integer multiples of h~1/?, changing from one k to the next on a
length scale of order ’/?. As the amplitudes of the modes change over scale h/?, one finds
after some calculation that B(r) is of order h (which is acceptable). But what does it mean to
‘change from one k to the next’? The obvious (though ultimately unsuccessful) idea is to use
‘building blocks’, as done for example in [13,20,21]. The building block between two radii (say,
r, and rz) would have single-mode wrinkling at the two extremes (r=r, and r=r2) and a