slab was large enough so as not to give rise to MD artefacts due to the system heating up as a
result of adding non-equilibrium excess energy.

The trajectories were subsequently analysed in order to identify prompt —CH3 dissociation
events. Any trajectory in which the dissociating C-C bond length exceeded 3 A was counted as a
dissociation event (inspection of dissociative trajectories showed that this was an effective point
of no return). The results of the simulations are shown in table 4. Dissociation events were indeed
observed over this energy range, which shows that (for a small number of trajectories) surface
dissociation can occur prior to energy dissipation. In general, the number of dissociation events
increases with the internal energy introduced via the non-equilibrium impulse applied to the C-H
stretch. Despite the fact that these dissociation events are rare, there were enough events to count,
which allowed us to derive approximate Poisson error estimates. The low probability of -CH3
dissociation arises from the fact that the excess energy in the C-H stretch is quickly dissipated into
the bulk of the diamond slab (a point which is discussed in further detail below, with a typical
time-dependent plot shown as electronic supplementary material, figure S1). When dissociation
did take place, it necessarily occurred prior to dissipation of the initial C-H stretch energy to the
bulk, and was therefore an extremely rapid process—i.e. within 100-200 fs.

(b) Free energy sampling and thermal dissociation rate coefficient

The results in table 4 give the fraction of prompt dissociation events observed when the system
has an energy which is initially in excess of the -CH3 BDE, and therefore provide insight into the
relative rate of C-H energy dissipation versus CH3 dissociation. The energy dissipation rates in
this system are extremely high. All of the observed dissociation events take place before the excess
energy is dissipated and the system achieves thermal equilibrium, and are therefore very fast. In