The first step towards the representation of a chemical structure relies on knowledge of the
connectivity that establishes the order in which atoms are linked to each other. This feature
became apparent from the independent work of Wohler [1] and Liebig [2] on fulminates and
cyanates. Some years later, Berzelius introduced the concept of isomerism to characterize such

compounds with different properties but the same atomic composition. In turn, Pasteur [3] : z
separated the two enantiomers (i.e. structures that rotate the plane-polarized light in opposite =
directions) of tartaric acid in 1848, thus helping to establish the concept of chemical chirality. is
However, one of the first attempts to fix the structure of a molecule was carried out by Hofmann as)
and Kekulé, both in 1865. While Hofmann erroneously suggested a model for the structure : =
of methane where the hydrogens define the corners of a square whose centre is the carbon, : >
Kekulé proposed a hexagonal geometry for benzene, with all atoms in the same plane. This was [a
corroborated by the X-ray crystallography experiments of Lonsdale in 1929 [4]. In fact, the advent 8
of quantum chemistry and X-ray crystallography techniques enabled the discovery of the fantastic :s
world of complexity and diversity of structures arising in Nature or that can be prepared in the [8

laboratory. Nowadays, the concept of structure is in the realm of modern chemistry, because it is
intimately related to the fundamental properties of matter; hence, much work has been devoted
to the development of techniques to discover low-energy structures.

In the last two decades or so, there has been great interest in the exploration of low-energy
landscapes with the aim of discovering stable structures of a great diversity of systems [5],
including atomic and molecular clusters, proteins and colloids. However, minimizing the total
energy of atomic and molecular clusters is a difficult numerical optimization problem, especially
when weak non-covalent intermolecular interactions are involved in the binding. The potential