
Figure 8. Panel (a) shows the absorption spectra at the FF of a graphene grating consisting of a two-dimensional square array
of square graphene patches versus the side length of the graphene patches. The grating periods are. A; = A; = 100 nm. The
dashed curves indicate the location of the resonance wavelength of graphene localized SPs of different orders and are only a
guide to the eye. The white solid line corresponds to a third of the resonance wavelength of the fundamental graphene plasmon.
In panel (b), the TH intensity spectra versus the side length of the graphene squares corresponding to the same two-dimensional
graphene diffraction grating. In the inset, the TH intensity versus the side length of the graphene squares, determined for the
resonance wavelengths of the fundamental plasmon. The dashed line is only a guide to the eye. (Online version in colour.)

TH is achieved when W = 85nm, that is exactly at the width at which there is a plasmon mode at
both the FF and TH. Importantly, from the results presented in figure 6, we find that the double
resonance condition is fulfilled when the graphene ribbons are in relative close proximity to their
nearest neighbours. Therefore, despite the fact that the excitation of localized surface plasmons
on the graphene ribbons plays the major role in the observed enhancement of the TH intensity,
the optical coupling between neighbouring ribbons and other diffractive effects could also affect
the optical response of the graphene structure.

The conclusions valid for a periodic distribution of graphene ribbons also hold in the two-
dimensional case. To illustrate this, we calculated the linear and nonlinear optical response of a
two-dimensional array of square graphene patches with side length, W. This particular choice
of the shape of graphene patches was guided by the fact that numerical simulations converge
much faster in the case of square patches when compared to discs. From the results presented
in figure 8, it can also be seen that in the two-dimensional case there are certain values of W for

