corresponds to the situation in which the electric dipole amplitude plays a dominant role and
all other amplitudes are small. Such a situation is typical for particles with a small size parameter
q 1 and a refractive index 1 <n <2 [19]. In this case, the Rayleigh formula (2.1) represents the
minimal possible scattering of a small particle.

3. High-index dielectric particles

The situation changes for a particle with high refractive index. Silicon (Si) particles at optical
frequencies (n ~ 4) have resonant scattering efficiencies with an inverted hierarchy. For example,
at the magnetic dipole resonance, the scattering efficiency is larger than that at the electric dipole
resonance, even for small particles [20-22]. This has been experimentally confirmed [23,24]. As
a result, in spite of fulfilling the condition that the particle size is small, the scattering near
the resonances is not small. This follows from the fact that, actually, the true conditions for the
applicability of formula (2.1) are q <1 and, additionally, q <1/n. This is easy to see in figure 1a,
where the total Mie scattering and Rayleigh scattering efficiencies as a function of refractive
index n are presented for a spherical particle with size parameter q=0.3 (R/A ~*~ 0.05). Rayleigh
scattering saturates at large n, but equation (2.1) loses its validity in the vicinity of the magnetic
dipole resonance at 1 = 10.3 and also in the vicinity of the subsequent resonances (as shown in
the inset of figure 1a). Note that some very narrow peaks cannot be seen on the scale of this inset.
Also note that, even with a large refractive index, the total scattering between resonances is quite
close to Rayleigh scattering (blue line).

It is not surprising that the particle has a scattering efficiency much larger than Rayleigh
scattering near resonances. However, the asymmetric line-shape of the resonance (figure 1a) leads
also to a strong suppression of the total scattering near the resonance that becomes lower than