An alternative to the plate-impact testing technique is the use of compact pulsed power
generator testing facilities [40]. The principle of this technique is the following: a short and intense
current (approx. 3.5 MA in 500 ns with GEPI device (CEA-Gramat)) is used to load an electrode by
the Laplace effect. The electrode in contact with the concrete or ceramic sample plays a similar role
to that of a flyer plate in a plate-impact experiment. However, the pressure loading corresponds
to a ramp profile (shockless compression); therefore, the desired strain rate can be obtained in the
tested sample (approx. 10°-10° s-1 according to LaLone & Gupta [41] and Zinszner [42]). More
recently, this testing facility was used to investigate the tensile strength of an alumina ceramic [13],
two SiC ceramics [14] (figure 3a) and an ultra-high-performance concrete [23].

However, high-pulsed power technology techniques also suffer from several limitations due to
the fact that these experiments are complex and costly. Moreover, these experiments are limited to
small samples due to the fact that the applied magnetic pressure is inversely proportional to the
square of the electrode’s width (Laplace effect), and the rise time associated with each device is
fixed and cannot be easily changed. In addition, due to strong electromagnetic perturbations, the
use of electronic devices (pressure gauges in the samples, ultra-high-speed camera) can also be
problematic. For this reason, several authors have explored the possibility of using plate-impact
testing devices to perform isentropic compression experiments. This method has been used with
functionally graded materials developed by Jarmakani et al. [44]. In this theme issue, another new
concept of shockless plate-impact technique is explored based on the use of ‘wavy machined’
flyer plate or buffer plate that can be easily produced by chip forming [45].

The edge-on impact (EOI) testing technique can be included in a category of techniques
used to investigate damage processes in brittle materials under high loading rates as illustrated
