even p, and the longer utterance violates Grice’s maxim of manner. If p does not entail that .
it is the whole truth that p, however, then ‘it is the whole truth that p’ is false. For if it were
true, then there would be a truth—that it is the whole truth that p—that is not entailed by p.
Failing to entail all truths, p would not be the whole truth after all, and the assertion would
be false. On either horn- of the dilemma, asserting ‘it is the whole truth that p’ comes out as
inappropriate. But that result is puzzling: clearly, as our analysis above has shown, there are
scenarios where such an assertion seems neither false nor unduly prolix. The prefix ‘it is the
whole truth that’ does not seem to be redundant in the way that ‘it is true’ has been taken
to be.

In Tractatus 1.1.1, Wittgenstein writes: “The world is determined by the facts, and by their

being all the facts. In recent years, philosophers have aimed to give a more precise meaning
to this ‘quantifier over everything’. This has involved efforts in metaphysics [65,66] and also
crucially for us, ethics and the law [67,68]. Our discussion here indicates that these superficially
very different appeals to totalities are indeed interrelated. Introducing a duty to ‘tell the whole
truth’ to a witness or victim calls upon both the metaphysical conception of ‘whole truth’ (as
a determinant of the precise content of the duties that the witness owes) and the ethical-legal
concept (as a determinant of the form of that duty within an account of a complete legal system).
Put differently, a more precise and ideally formally representable totality operator T* — ‘It is
the whole truth that’ would enable us to describe what the witness has to say, and at the same
time allow us to better understand how this type of duty fits into the totality of communication
obligations that actors (or inforgs) in a legal system have. The parallel reading of regulation that
pertains to the natural environment and regulation that pertain to the informational environment
showed how the concept of a duty to tell ‘the whole truth’ connected them both, and can thus also