i.e. climate sensitivity is the eventual (equilibrium) global temperature change per unit forcing.
Climate sensitivity depends upon climate feedbacks, the many physical processes that come into
play as climate changes in response to a forcing. Positive (amplifying) feedbacks increase the
climate response, whereas negative (diminishing) feedbacks reduce the response.

We usually discuss climate sensitivity in terms of a global mean temperature response to a
4Wm~ CO) forcing. One merit of this standard forcing is that its magnitude is similar to an
anticipated near-term human-made climate forcing, thus avoiding the need to continually scale
the unit sensitivity to achieve an applicable magnitude. A second merit is that the efficacy of
forcings varies from one forcing mechanism to another [66]; so it is useful to use the forcing
mechanism of greatest interest. Finally, the 4Wm~? CO) forcing avoids the uncertainty in the
exact magnitude of a doubled CO} forcing [1,48] estimate of 3.7 W m ~ for doubled CO2, whereas
Hansen et al. [66] obtain 4.1 W m~?, as well as problems associated with the fact that a doubled
COy forcing varies as the CO2 amount changes (the assumption that each CO2 doubling has the
same forcing is meant to approximate the effect of CO? absorption line saturation, but actually
the forcing per doubling increases as CO? increases [66,85]).

Climate feedbacks are the core of the climate problem. Climate feedbacks can be confusing,
because in climate analyses what is sometimes a climate forcing is at other times a climate
feedback. A CO2 decrease from, say, approximately 1000 ppm in the Early Cenozoic to 170-
300 ppm in the Pleistocene, caused by shifting plate tectonics, is a climate forcing, a perturbation
of the Earth’s energy balance that alters the temperature. Glacial—interglacial oscillations of the
CO amount and ice sheet size are both slow climate feedbacks, because glacial—interglacial
climate oscillations largely are instigated by insolation changes as the Earth’s orbit and tilt of
its spin axis change, with the climate change then amplified by a nearly coincident change of