have to be to meet all consumers’ Fe demand via grazing or hunting. In essence, the biogenic
Fe demand for each functional group has to be equal to or greater than the Fe lost due to
consumption by grazers or predators, and other mortality.

The results showed that the model was not balanced for Fe mass. Under low Fe
conditions, Fe mass balance required increases in the biogenic Fe pools (figure 4; electronic
supplementary material, tables S4 and S7) associated with krill (28x), producers, copepods
and microzooplankton (approx. 15x each), and bacterioplankton and carnivorous zooplankton
(approx. 5x each). The necessary adjustments were slightly less pronounced under high Fe
conditions (electronic supplementary material, tables S4 and S7), requiring approximately 24x
biomass increase for microzooplankton, 10x increase for producers and approximately 5x
increases for krill, copepods and carnivorous zooplankton (electronic supplementary material,
tables S4 and S7). The fact that, in both models, the biogenic pools with the highest required
increases were those of krill, producers, copepods and microzooplankton might be due to the
small magnitude of both the lower and higher Fe content values for these functional groups
(kg Fe t-! wet weight; table 2; electronic supplementary material, table S2). Many of these Fe
content values are derived from studies (see Material and methods, §2) in stringent trace metal
laboratory conditions, and thus only include intracellular Fe content. If some of these organisms
have a significant amount of bioavailable Fe on their body surfaces, this extracellular Fe could
be a significant source of Fe for their consumers, explaining part of this discrepancy. However,
a variety of studies have demonstrated that the assimilation efficiency of a trace metal by a
consumer is a direct function of the percentage of that element in the prey vacuole or soft
tissues [26,27]. It is also possible that crustaceans, such as krill and copepods, are acquiring Fe
directly from seawater through their gills or permeable cuticles, as has been previously shown for
other metals in crustaceans [96]. Alternatively, it is very likely that the Fe content of organisms