
Owing to the most consistent hair growth being on the vertex of the head, hair specimens
are usually collected from this location. Several hair shafts can simply be cut out (as close to
the scalp as possible), or they can be plucked out from the scalp (using tweezers) [28,47]. Nail
specimens are normally collected by clipping. Both finger nail and toe nail specimens can be
collected for chemical analysis. Preparation of hair and nail specimens for analysis includes
decontamination, homogenization, extraction/digestion, preconcentration and clean-up [47,49].
The rigid structure of the keratinized matrix can be broken down by overnight alkaline (with
NaOH) or acidic (with HCI, H2SO4 or HNO3) digestion. However, following such digestion,
some components of interest may be decomposed. Thus, alternative methods of extraction
are occasionally implemented; for example, ultrasound-assisted extraction with methanol (after
micropulverization of the specimen) [50,51]. To remove matrix interferences (especially after
digestion), subsequent clean-up by solid-phase extraction (SPE) is necessary [48]. In fact, such
extensive preparation of hair and nail specimens is laborious, time-consuming and may introduce =
errors to the final result [52]. Less extensive specimen preparation is required for imaging MS—in : 3
which case, longitudinally sectioned hair specimens are often used [28]. Hair and nail specimens
are very stable. In general, they can be stored and transported at room temperature, while the ris mea)
of matrix and analyte degradation is low. Because of the high stability, post-mortem specimens :
can be collected and analysed [53]. One of the problems related to hair analysis is the fact that a]
dying, bleaching or exposure to heat or sunlight may affect the results [54,55]. Owing to these DNS
factors, analytes can decompose, while other chemicals (including drugs of abuse) may adsorb iG
on the hair surface leading to erroneous results [56]. There are also concerns about the rates of 18
analyte incorporation into hair matrix. These rates may depend on the type of hair. For example, .
some drugs bind to melanin, which contributes to higher concentrations of those drugs in dar
hair than in lighter-coloured hair [3]. The advantage of analysis of nails (when compared with