influence of pressure produces quite diverse effects in magnetocaloric materials. While in MnAs 2
the magnetocaloric effect increases with pressure, in GdsSi2Gep it decreases, because application : &
of pressure makes the magnetostructural transition from the monoclinic to orthorhombic phase 22
to approach the Curie temperature of the monoclinic phase. At a given pressure of 6 kbar, both : S
transitions merge into a single one, which becomes of second order. Above this pressure, the : s
magnetocaloric effect remains pressure independent, showing the features of the magnetocaloric : B
effect associated with a second-order transition. In the case of La(FeSi);3H; compounds, it has : S

been reported [18] that, while the magnetocaloric effect decreases under an applied pressure
in LaFe11 57Si1,43 (LaFeSi), it is instead enhanced in the LaFe1;57Si1.43H1.64 hydride. In both
LaFeSi and LaFeSi-hydride, the magnetostructural transition is shifted to lower temperatures by
increasing the applied pressure. The different effect of pressure on the magnetocaloric response
seems to be a consequence of the fact that, while the magnetization change at the transition
strongly decreases by application of pressure in LaFeSi, it is almost pressure independent in
the hydrides.

Pressure experiments reported by Caron et al. [19] in hexagonal NizIn-type Mnj,CryCoGe
compounds reveal that pressure is able to tune the temperature at which the magnetostructural
phase transition occurs. However, the magnitude of the magnetocaloric effect is almost insensitive
to the applied pressure. Samanta et al. [20] have studied similar MnNiSi-based compounds.
They took advantage of the fact that the magnetovolume interplay can be strongly enhanced by
isostructurally alloying 46% of MnNiSi with 54% MnFeGe. In the resulting system, application of
a moderate pressure of about 2.5 kbar enables doubling of the isothermal magnetic field-induced
entropy change, owing to a huge volume change of 7% taking place at the magnetostructural
transition undergone by the compound close to room temperature.