
Figure 3. Results from analysis of video microscopy on the dissipation of air bubbles stabilized by BslA. (a) There are
characteristic decay curves for all bubbles measured. There is an initial slow decay regime characterized by a decay rate ky. Ata
transition time t*, the bubbles undergo a rapid decay phase that is described by a second decay rate, k. Each colour represents a
Measurement of an individual bubble. (b,c) There is no correlation between the rapid decay rate, ky, and the initial length of the
bubble, /o, or the transition time, t*. (d) The decay rates are correlated, however, showing that those bubbles that begin a quicker
decay in the first phase also have a concomitant rapid decay in the second. The protein concentration used was 0.1 mg ml~!
at pH7.

Finally, we note that the dissipation of the bubbles may be arrested by covalently cross-linking
the interfacial BslA layer using glutaraldehyde. As can be seen in figure 4a,b, the bubbles remain
in their typical elongated morphology. Owing to the cross-linking process, however, aggregation
of the bubbles frequently occurs (figure 4b). The fact that these bubbles no longer disappear lends
further credence to the notion that structural defects in the interfacial film could be the underlying
cause of this effect. Substantially cross-linking the surface layer can effectively ‘patch over’ any
structural defects locking the structure in place.

An overall question remains: why are elongated air bubbles coated in BslA unstable while oil
in water emulsions are stable? The answer probably lies in both the kinetic and thermodynamic
properties of BslA interfacial adsorption. We have previously shown [30] that BslA has to
overcome an energy barrier in order to adsorb to an interface. Combined with the fact that an
air—water interface is less hydrophobic than an oil—-water one, there may not be a sufficient kinetic
window for BslA to adsorb and form a robust and well-organized interfacial layer on the surface
of an air bubble.
