ona micropost of elliptical cross section. (a) Deviatoric curvature heat map is steepest at the poles of the micropost. (b) Particles
migrate toward poles. (c, d), Complex curvature field defined by pinning the interface on a micropost of square cross section.
Cylinders (c) and spheres (d) migrate along complex trajectories toward corners of a square micropost. (a,b,c) Reprinted from
[16] with permission. (d) Adapted from [20] with permission from The Royal Society of Chemistry.

at the micropost corners. The path followed by a particular particle depends on where it lands
on the interface. All paths exterior to a limiting contour surrounding the micropost (indicated
by the red contour) lead to the corners of the micropost. All paths within this limiting contour
move away from the micropost and toward the corners. This limiting contour represents a ‘ridge’
surrounding the micropost along which the deviatoric curvature is locally maximum. A particle
directly on this contour would migrate along it toward the micropost corner, unless that location
is already occupied by a particle. In that case, particles accumulate along the ridge. Particle paths,
in fact, are more complex, modulated by particle-particle and particle—wall interactions owing
to capillarity and hydrodynamics. However, the structure built up by the particles is strongly
correlated with this underlying curvature gradient map. As each particles is trapped along its
first site of encounter with either the micropost or a neighbouring particle, these curvature
driven flux assembly limited structures (akin to diffusion limited structures and other flux-limited
structures). The formation and behaviour of such structures form the focus of our current research.

3. Liquid crystals as hosts for directed assembly

Liquid crystals are fluids comprising anisotropic molecules with properties intermediate to liquid
and crystalline states, with rich elastic and topological responses. In the isotropic phase, the
molecules assume random orientations and positions. In the nematic phase, the molecules’ long
axes have a preferred alignment direction, or a director, denoted by a headless unit vector n [38].