the monolayer, we established that the particles are negatively charged. In this experiment, for
potentials 0, +500 and +2400 V on the electrode (relative to ground) we determined the mean area
per particle, respectively, as 110, 105 and 75 um? in the region below the electrode. By contrast,
for potentials —500 and —2400 V large domains that are free of particles were observed just below
the electrode. In other words, the particles are attracted by a positively charged electrode and
repelled by a negatively charged one. Thus, we can conclude that the charges, which create the
particle electric field in the air, are negative. A detailed theoretical description of the interaction
of charged colloid particles at air/water and oil/water interfaces with an external electric field in
the non-polar fluid (air, oil) can be found in [25].

The interparticle distances in the monolayer at a given degree of compression indicate that
the surface charge acquired by the particles in different hydrophobization runs is not perfectly
reproducible, despite the fact that we are following exactly the same experimental procedure.
For this reason, in a given series of experiments with the Langmuir trough, we used particles
from the same batch for a period of less than one week. For longer storage in IPA, a pronounced
decrease of the particle charge is observed. For example, after particle storage in IPA for 1, 13 and
17 days, we determined that the particle surface charge density, respectively, was o = 0.21, 0.14
and 0.12 uC cm~? (see [23] for details). The decrease ina during storage in IPA could be explained
by the desorption of ions bound to the particle surfaces, which is facilitated by the relatively high
dielectric constant of IPA, ¢ = 18.6 at 25°C.

Frames from video recordings corresponding to different degrees of compression (i.e. to
different area, A, between the barriers) were processed and the mean area per particle in the
monolayer, «, was determined. A and « are related by the simple formula A = Na, where N is the
total number of particles between the barriers in the trough. The experimental plot of A versus