stochastic optimal control problem for the quantity of interest, where, however, the cost as well 72
as the coefficients in the stochastic differential equation may depend on a mean-field variable [4
(averaging all individual quantities). Since the mean-field variable can be rewritten in dependence : N
of the overall density function it becomes possible to derive a system of PDEs for the evolution : S
of the overall density as well as a distributed adjoint variable. As usual in optimal control, the :s

adjoint variable is supplemented by a terminal instead of an initial condition, which implies that
the mean-field game becomes a boundary value problem for a coupled system in space-time
instead of a system of evolution equations forward in time. The latter observation is crucial for
understanding the analytical and computational challenges. Standard techniques for evolution
equations are not applicable in the analysis of mean-field games, e.g. the question of local-in-time
existence cannot even be posed reasonably. On the other hand, variational approaches suffer from
missing coercivity, convexity and the fact that as usual in differential games a fixed-point operator
needs to be formulated on top of the optimization problem. Novel developments coupling
variational principles and viscosity solution techniques for the adjoint problem can be found
in recent literature [42-45] as well as solutions with advanced probabilistic arguments [46,47].
With respect to the numerical solution, there is no simple forward integration, but the huge
coupled systems in space-time need to be solved. Moreover, the coupling of the equation for the
density (usually a Fokker—Planck or transport equation) with the adjoint equation (a Hamilton—
Jacobi equation) needs particular care with respect to discretization. The adjoint structure of the
equations has also led to novel insights beyond mean-field games, embraced under the term
adjoint methods for Hamilton-Jacobi equations [48-50].

In this Theme Issue, two papers deal explicitly with mean-field games. Achdou ef al. [51]
provide an overview of various novel PDE models in macroeconomics, which are mainly