

a random interference pattern. It is clear that no focusing can occur whatsoever in this case since
changing the phase of this single source only changes the phase of the output speckle, hence
precluding any focusing effect. The solution to this problem lies in the use of interference between
statistically independent speckles, or equivalently between speckle patterns at frequencies which
are uncorrelated. This is where time-reversal strongly differs from its monochromatic ancestor,
namely, phase conjugation [25].

This very simple yet fascinating experiment is easier to understand considering another
experiment conducted with elastic waves propagating inside a two-dimensional solid cavity as
described in the set-up of figure 3 taken from [31]. An aluminium cone coupled with a transducer
generates surface waves (in fact flexural waves) at one point ro of a non-symmetrical and ergodic
silicon cavity. A second transducer is used as a receiver. The central frequency fo of the transducers
is set to 1 MHz and their relative bandwidth to 100% (Af = 1MHz). The source is considered :
point-like and isotropic because the cone tip is much smaller than the central wavelength. A 1 js =
pulse is emitted by the source and the impulse response is acquired at r, digitized. Then a 1000 rs 3
long portion of the signal (the Heisenberg time of the cavity) is time-reversed and sent from point
r. The time-reversed field generated is then scanned using an optical interferometer around point nee)
19. The spatio-temporal behaviour of time-reversed field is represented in figure 3b. At the collapse :
time, it is focused onto a spot whose width is about half a wavelength, limited by the diffraction a]
limit. In other words, in this cavity, it is possible to reach the diffraction limit using a single sensor, DN
thanks to time-reversal. This can actually be explained through a simple physical picture. Such [o
a cavity can indeed be described in terms of modes, which are eigenmodes of the propagation aoa
and whose eigenvalues are their resonant frequencies. When a point source emits a short pulse in ,