interactions in a well-defined topology.

The LE was used for normalization in order to obtain a close knowledge of the non-equilibrium
density operator of the many-spin system encoded in different coherence orders. As mentioned
before, the LE in a many-spin system presents two main possibilities. In this paper, we focused
our attention in the ME type Me, where the polarization is always perpendicular to the direction
of the quantizing effective field. The other variant, Mpg, was the centre of our work during more
than a decade. In particular, Mpg in the initial condition is ‘local’, with a fraction of the spins
having their polarization aligned parallel to the direction of the quantizing effective field.

In the liquid crystal, the LE displayed three different regimes characterized by different decay
rates and specific interferences. In the polycrystalline ferrocene, however, the LE decayed in a
monotonic way. This absence of features and time scales could be assigned to the fact that our :
experiments involve an average over all possible microcrystalline orientations in the polycrystal. :=
In both samples, when assessing the relative importance of the different MQC orders, the LE
proved to be a useful tool in order to remove the decoherent behaviour. This not only facilitates
the comparison among the build-up rates of the different MQC orders observed in ferrocene but, nee)
more important, it highlights information that otherwise would be hidden in the background :
noise of long-time behaviour. a]

As a complement for our MQC experiments, the spin counting for both systems was DNS
performed. In the case of ferrocene, we introduced a two-cluster model that successfully allowed if
us to separate the growing correlations of the many-spin system into a small and a large areal
cluster of correlated spins. Owing to the ensemble average implicit in a global magnetization .
experiment, the information about geometrical crystal structures and the relation with the clusters