
First, we point to the main advantage of this type of quantum Jeffrey conditioning. This
generalized FTP matches well the classical FTP (2.8), i.e. coincides with it if the interference term

°We remark that in the quantum formalism the output probability q(H) can be written directly with the aid of Born’s rule.
Thus, one can speculate that Alice’s brain assigns the probability q(H) without using the presented quantum-like Jeffrey
conditioning. For example, the brain might really represent belief states in complex Hilbert space and use directly Born’s
rule. Of course, one has to distinguish between a mathematical and physical models. On the physical level, the complex
Hilbert space can appear in quantum-like models of brain’s functioning based on the representation of belief states by the
classical electromagnetic field in the brain, see [42]. However, in this paper, we want to explore the subjective probability
framework. Here, quantum-like Jeffrey conditioning provides the most consistent scheme of PU and learning. Finally, we
remark that here PU has to be treated not so straightforwardly as in the classical Bayesian approach where PU is the update
ofa prior probability to a posterior probability. In the quantum-like model, this ‘update’ is, in fact, the assignment of subjective
probability to the hypothesis H on the basis of the reference self-measurement on the belief state p.


in (5.1) goes to zero. Thus, new Jeffrey conditioning differs from ‘conventional one’ by appearance
of additional terms (of the interference type) correcting the classical conditioning. We also remark
that, in contrast to QBist FTP (3.3), our FTP is valid even for infinite-dimensional state spaces.

The main problem of FTP (5.1) is to present a proper interpretation of the interference term.

The most consistent interpretation is that Alice’s brain really constructs a kind of Hilbert space
representation for probabilities, i.e. it operates (unconsciously) with complex amplitudes (to be
precise, with physical carries of such amplitudes).