(i.e. one with a finite dataset), only then would this data appear to be produced by a uniform : =

distribution [9]. Moreover, it has been argued that the notion of randomness as an objective notion Sy
of probability of a uniform nature fails to capture entirely the absence of patterns in data. Such 2
patterns might, alternatively, be captured by the so-called algorithmic randomness. This sense of aed
randomness provides a probabilistic guarantee of such an absence of patterns, since almost all 22
sequences are (computationally, Martin-L6f) random, yet is unable to guarantee absolutely the : 8
non-presence of computable patterns. DNS

Specifically, algorithmic randomness has been considered to be characterized by an absence of : z
patterns and defined (in algorithmic information theory) via the property of the incompressibility : &

of finite strings of symbols, and the latter suffers first from the fact that the complexity of any
string is only fixed up to a constant which depends on the universal Turing machine considered.
In order to develop a more rigorous notion of algorithmic randomness, it would thus appear
necessary to consider the limit case of infinite sequences of bits. One then finds that there are no
maximally random sequences (cf. [10]). Thus, it would appear that the non-existence of maximally
random sequences demonstrates that quantum (or any other form of) randomness cannot serve
as an ‘absolute’ or ‘true’ sort of randomness [11]. The best one can achieve in this way, given its
failure to identify an absolute sense of randomness, is to consider a series of increasingly strong
senses of randomness. Moreover, classical systems may involve intrinsic unpredictability (even
if necessarily essentially epistemic) due to sensitivity of behaviour on initial conditions. In the
current context, particular care should be taken in regard to this point because measurement
involves more than a single atomic system—at a minimum, measurement involves two systems,
one of which might and often is considered describable by classical mechanics. However,