
After this brief outline of a naturalistic and pragmatic approach to science, I want to show
that Bohr’s idea of complementarity cannot be understood unless one is ready to see the
affinities between his and the pragmatist approach to science. I think that such a connection
is not accidental. Previously I have argued that the Danish philosopher Harald Hoffding acted
as Bohr’s philosophical mentor, but this is not the place to present the historical details [5].
However, Bohr not only shared with the pragmatists the view that scientific theories are
not literal representations. He also seemed to hold a similar attitude to theirs about human
evolution according to which our natural experience is a result of our cognitive adaptation to
our environment. Therefore, Bohr was a naturalist as well as a pragmatist by choice. This choice
helped him to find an interpretation of quantum mechanics at the very moment he had to face
what he took to be an epistemological lesson. The discovery of the quantum of action, Planck’s
constant, was the empirical fact that forced physicists to revise classical mechanics. However,
the revision itself was constrained by classical mechanics itself, Bohr believed, because it ought
to be possible to recover the results of classical physics from quantum mechanics in those cases
where there would be no empirically discernible differences. This restriction is epitomized in his
well-known principle of correspondence.

Now, it is logically impossible to recover classical results from quantum mechanics, unless
those concepts by which we describe our observational and experimental experience are the same
in the two cases. This opens up two possibilities: (i) a coherent quantum mechanics has to use
the same experimental vocabulary as classical physics, perhaps limited with respect to certain
applications and (ii) classical physics has to be redefined in new terms borrowed from a consistent
quantum mechanics. However, Bohr rejected the last possibility right away. He did that because
he strongly believed that the classical concepts such as velocity, acceleration, time, position,