scalp, the topology of significance involves central regions of the right hemisphere. Concerning
HRV-HE MIC significance shifts from left (arousal 2) to right (arousal 3) hemisphere.

Negative emotions elicited a significantly higher brain-heart reaction with respect to the : =
positive ones, as indicated by a higher MIC over large cortical areas for HRV-LF power. This 3
was especially evident between EEG oscillations in @ band, at arousal 3, in the areas related to
visuospatial attention. Interestingly, such a strong interaction vanishes at the highest arousal level nee)
(arousal 4), being replaced by a stronger (parasympathetic) HF activity associated with EEG @ :
power increase in left frontal regions and in right parietal regions. Importantly, this patterns of a]
activations seem in line with a classical attentional-bradicardic reaction to hyper-aroused images DN
with negative emotional content [82]. We believe that the vanishing effect hereby observed at high [o
arousing elicitation has to be related to the processing of emotions at a CNS level exclusively. [5
At a ANS level, in fact, through the same experimental protocol, our previous findings confirm ,
arousal-specific patterns of skin conductance [83,84], and HRV and respiratory dynamics [85],
allowing for a four-class discrimination of all of the arousing visual elicitations.

Statistically significant differences between sessions of the same type should be linked to
the quantification of the effect of (pleasant/unpleasant) arousing stimuli to subsequent neutral
elicitations and resting-state sessions. Interestingly, while we found no variations in brain—
heart dynamics between resting-state sessions, we found significant differences between neutral
sessions. In particular, major differences between neutral sessions occurred in the prefrontal
cortex, mainly due to significant changes occurring in the neutral session 5. Note that, in the
experimental protocol timeline, arousal level 3 (i.e. the elicitation with higher changes in brain—
heart dynamics) follows neutral session 5. In this view, an early /late effect can be associated to
an arousing visual elicitation. We also remark that brain-heart coupling, as estimated through