did include different images in such sessions, minimizing the repetition effects on emotional
processing. Note that our previous endeavours demonstrate that no significant changes occur
in ANS dynamics among neutral IAPS elicitation sessions [72,91]. Moreover, self-assessment
scores of elicited IAPS images after the experiment were not taken into account in this study.
We relied on the standardization of the IAPS images, which had been performed on a large
number of healthy subjects [67], ensuring highly consistent results in terms of valence and
arousal ratings. However, we cannot exclude that individual differences in valence and arousal :
perceptions, with respect to the elicited ones, occurred. Furthermore, we are aware that brain— :=
heart dynamics might be further mediated by psychological factors like mood, anxiety or
personality traits that we did not take into account in this study. Future works should account
for all these aspects in order to achieve a more detailed and precise brain-heart model, also nee)
accounting for the evaluation of brain-heart coupling directionality, as well as for the brain— :
brain, and ANS-ANS interactions [65]. MIC, in fact, is unable to assess how much the past a]
samples in one series affect its future values or the future of the other time series (like in DNS
Granger causality measures). However, is important to point out that these issues has a limited area
impact on our results. We were interested in assessing the coupling between EEG oscillations and [5
heartbeat dynamics, tracking their changes despite external elicitation. In other words, despite .
the individual emotional processing of each subject, we were able to identify significant changes
between 6 oscillations and HRV metrics. The effect of slight difference between the window
duration for the estimation of EEG (4s) and HRV parameters (about 7s due to the point-process
model order p=7) on experimental results should also be investigated. Finally, although in
this study we performed a high-resolution EEG recording with 128 channels, our conclusion
involving the prefrontal cortex activity have limited physiological interpretation due to limits
in the spatial resolution. In future studies, precise electrode localization, paired with individual
morphological magnetic resonance imaging, would be acquired in order to have a reliable