the general population, independent of age groups [1-3]. A particular cause for concern is that
the mortality gap between the general population and schizophrenia patients seems to have
increased during recent decades [4]. Suicide and accidents account for only a part of excess
mortality, whereas a substantial proportion is due to physical illness [5]. The largest single cause :
of death in schizophrenia patients leading to an increased mortality rate is due to CVD, with 12
CVD mortality ranging from 40% to 50% [6]. Causal factors for patients with this condition are Lo
still being discussed, and have not been fully clarified until now. However, possible complicating :
factors are related to lifestyle, the lack of physical activity, smoking, obesity, poor diet, substance =
abuse, diabetes, hypertension, the cardiac side effects of antipsychotics and the imbalanced a
autonomic nervous system (ANS) during acute psychosis [1,6,7]. Two important differences from {8
other patient populations suffering from primary cardiac conditions (e.g. myocardial infarction, :
cardiomyopathy) and which present signs of cardiac autonomic dysfunction (CAD) need to be fA
taken into account. The first difference is the fact that severe CAD is not initially caused by major Dw
structural or functional alterations of the heart in schizophrenia patients. Moreover, it seems to :
be associated with an altered brain-heart interaction influenced by a lack of cortical inhibitory a
control over sympathoexcitatory subcortical regions [8,9]. The second difference from patient :S
populations suffering from primary cardiac conditions is caused by the relative ‘longevity’ of :
patients with schizophrenia when compared with more frequent shorter survival rates of cardiac
patients.

Previous studies have indicated that people with lower heart rate variability (HRV), as seen
in the case of schizophrenia, exhibit effective behavioural responses (e.g. faster response times
and higher accuracy rates) on executive cognitive tasks as well as exhibited flexible and adaptive
emotional [10,11]. Thayer & Lane [12] proposed the neurovisceral integration model, which suggests
that neural networks implicated in emotional and cognitive self-regulation are also involved