or even unknowable, corresponding to the two types of realism just defined. :

Non-realist interpretations of quantum phenomena and QM, at least those in the spirit of :=
Copenhagen (the only non-realist interpretations considered here), not only do not make any
of these realist assumptions, but also, in Bohr’s language, ‘in principle [exclude]’ them ([15],
v. 2, p. 62). In this view, quantum objects exist, are real, but the character of their existence is nee)
such that it ‘in principle exclude[s]’ a realist mathematical model representing, even ideally, their :
behaviour. There is no story to be told and no conception to be formed about how quantum events. a]
come about. Non-realist interpretations of QM imply that only predictions, of a probabilistic DNS
or statistical nature, concerning quantum phenomena are possible, even as concerns elemental area
individual quantum processes, such as those associated with elementary particles (hereafter 28
referred to as ‘elementary quantum processes’). This is one of the reasons for such interpretations, .
because this character of quantum predictions is an experimental fact, given that the repetition
of identically prepared experiments, in general, leads to different outcomes. Unlike in classical
physics, this difference cannot be diminished beyond a certain limit (defined by Planck’s constant,

h) by improving the conditions of measurement, a fact also reflected in the uncertainty relations,
which are correlative to the statistical nature of quantum predictions.

There is still a form of realism associated with non-realist interpretations of quantum theory,

at least those considered here, beginning with that of Bohr. It is defined by the interpretation
of the physics of measuring instruments in which the outcomes of quantum experiments are
registered as the effects of the interaction between quantum objects and these instruments.
These instruments, or rather their observable parts, are assumed to be described by classical