probability are due to insufficient information concerning systems that are at bottom causal but
whose mechanical complexity prevents us from accessing their causal behaviour and making
deterministic predictions concerning this behaviour. The situation in quantum physics is different,
given the difficulties of sustaining arguments for the causality of the independent behaviour of
quantum objects, even elemental individual quantum objects, such as elementary particles. If
an interpretation is non-realist, the absence of causality is, again, automatic, and the recourse
to probability or statistics is unavoidable in principle, even in the case of elemental quantum
processes and events. According to Bohr:

[I]t is most important to realize that the recourse to probability laws under [quantum]
circumstances is essentially different in aim from the familiar application of statistical
considerations as practical means of accounting for the properties of mechanical systems
of great structural complexity. In fact, in quantum physics we are presented not with
intricacies of this kind, but with the inability of the classical frame of concepts to comprise
the peculiar feature of indivisibility, or ‘individuality,’ characterizing the elementary
processes. ([15], v. 2, p. 34)

Probability and statistics deal with estimates of the occurrences of certain individual or collective
events, which defy deterministic handling (whether there is or not a hidden underlying causality
determining these events), in physics in accordance with mathematical probability theories. The
terms ‘probabilistic’ and ‘statistical’ are used differently. ‘Probabilistic’ refers to our estimates of
the probabilities of either individual or collective events, such as that of a coin toss or of finding
a quantum object in a given region of space. ‘Statistical’ refers to our estimates concerning the
outcomes of identical or similar experiments, such as that of multiple coin-tosses or repeated
identically prepared experiments with quantum objects, or to the average behaviour of certain