offer a description of individual quantum processes, or of anything else. ‘Observables’, for the :
corresponding operators, and ‘states’, for Hilbert-space vectors, are other such terms: we never
observe these ‘observables’ or ‘states’, but only use them to predict, probabilistically, what is
observed in measuring instruments. To make these predictions, one will need Planck’s constant,
h, which thus enters as part of this new relation between the data in question and the mathematics
of the theory.

Heisenberg’s revolutionary thinking not only introduced a new type of mathematical model
in physics but also established a new way of doing theoretical physics. Indeed, this way of
thinking also redefined experimental physics. The practice of experimental physics no longer
consists, as in classical physics, of tracking the independent behaviour of the systems considered.
Instead, it consists of unavoidably creating configurations, by now almost unbelievable in their
complexity (such as those found in the LHC), of experimental technology that reflect the fact that
what happens is unavoidably defined by what experiments we perform, how we interact with
quantum objects, rather than only by their independent behaviour. These configurations embody
the effects of the interactions between quantum objects and measuring instruments, through
which effects quantum objects are defined and, when possible, distinguished from one another,
while always remaining beyond the reach of quantum theory and even thought itself. I emphasize
‘unavoidably’ because, while the behaviour of classical objects may be affected by experimental
technology, in general, we can observe them without interfering with their behaviour, or can
compensate for this interference so that we can describe this behaviour independently.

The practice of theoretical physics no longer consists of offering an idealized mathematical
description of quantum objects and their behaviour. Instead, it consists of developing
mathematical machinery that is able to predict, in general probabilistically or statistically, the