We remark that the minimum free-energy configurations found above all have direct analogues
at the atomic level. This is important as a way to understand the origins of atomic-level
behaviour that may differ from continuum-level behaviour as embodied in continuum theories
of micromagnetics or phase transformation. The atomistic analogues can be appreciated by
noticing that both reference and deformed configurations of all these solutions are ‘objective
structures’ defined in [21]. Objective structures (OSs) are atomic structures which can be divided
into disjoint groups of atoms, having a one-to-one correspondence between atoms in any two
groups. Equivalently, the atoms can be labelled using the notation (i,j), where i labels the group
and j labels the atom within the group. In this notation, all atoms with the same second index are
required to be the same species. By definition, to be an OS, every pair of atoms of the form (i,j) and
(k,j) are required to see precisely the same atomic environment up to orthogonal transformation.
To see that this is true of the structures above, we superimpose the undistorted lattice of austenite
on the reference configuration. In fact, the method of visualization used in these figures with
a fine array of dots is consistent with the OS definition—we simply ensure that the dots are
points of the reference lattice of austenite. Then, following the Cauchy—Born rule [22], we use the
calculated zero-energy deformation to transport the atomic positions. This leads to both reference
and deformed configurations being perfect objective structures. The basic group of atoms are
those contained in 2’. By definition the reference configuration @ is the application of the group


G on @’, that is, the disjoint groups of atoms are the orbits of the atoms in 2’ under G. This
automatically gives an objective structure [38] with the correspondence being that given by the
action of G on 92’. (That is, suitably oriented observers stationed at x and g(x) see the same atomic
environment, assuming of course that the helix is extended to infinity so there are no ends.) By
construction, the deformed configuration is also an objective structure: replace G by H and Q’ by