automatically gives an objective structure [38] with the correspondence being that given by the
action of G on 92’. (That is, suitably oriented observers stationed at x and g(x) see the same atomic
environment, assuming of course that the helix is extended to infinity so there are no ends.) By
construction, the deformed configuration is also an objective structure: replace G by H and Q’ by
y(2’).

The analogy can be pushed one step further, as described in [39,40]. If one sets up a molecular
dynamics simulation (with very general classes of atomic forces) for the atoms in y(Q’) but
determines the image atoms using the group H, just as above, so only the atoms in y(’) are
actually simulated, but forces on these from all the other atoms are accounted for, then it follows

that all the atoms satisfy exactly the equations of molecular dynamics. This is a special case of : &
the method of objective molecular dynamics (OMD [39,40]). In fact, a certain time dependence Dos
of the group parameter cj, can be introduced [39], which leads to exact molecular dynamics for : =
every atom, but which also includes a macroscopic motion. For the case shown in figure 6, this : yy
method could be used to study stress-induced transformation due to pulling the helix vertically 2
at a constant (assignable) axial strain rate. We note that this analogue between continuum-level : S
free-energy minimizers and exact solutions of the equations of molecular dynamics is sufficiently 22
flexible to allow for phenomena such as surface relaxation in either the continuum or atomistic a]
theory. Using atomic forces appropriate to a transforming material, it would be interesting to set : =
up some computations of this type at small scales. A direct comparison between the results of : g
atomic and continuum theory could then be made. 8s

The analogy between atomic and continuum level is nearly perfect for these solutions, except
for one curiosity. That is, the atomic-level solutions of OMD allow all possible discrete groups