convergence is not known. Whereas we recall that, even if the convergence of the MIF method
is still an open problem as well, its one-dimensional version, the iterative filtering technique, has
been proved to be convergent under mild conditions [4]. Furthermore, the MEEMD has been
found to be much slower than the proposed method. On an average personal computer, it takes
around 4s to produce the cleaned classification plotted in figure 2b, while the MEEMD runs for
more than 190s on the same computer to produce the result shown in figure 4b.

We observe that, with this dataset, the MF classifier gives results similar to ACE, so we avoid
presenting them and move directly to the COS classifier.

The pixel classification produced by COS applied to the raw hypercube is shown in figure 5a,
where we reversed the pixel classification values. We needed to do so in order to have meaningful
results. In fact the corresponding ROC curve, plotted in dashed black in figure 62, would be
below the random guess curve without the reversion. If we apply the PostP method to the
reversed COS classification, we can improve the classification performance. This is verified by
the increase in the area under the ROC curve (plotted in solid black in figure 6a). However,
even with post-processing, the COS classification of the raw hyperspectral image still needs to
be reversed. To solve this issue, we devised and applied the pre-processing method PreP based
on the MIF algorithm and described in the previous section. The COS classification of the pre-
processed hypercube is shown in figure 5b. Its ROC curve, plotted in dashed blue in figure 6a,
is now directly above the random guess curve without any need to reverse the classification.
Nevertheless, its performances are worse than those produced by the reversed COS classification
of the raw dataset—the dashed black curve is clearly above the solid blue one. However, if
we apply the PostP method to the COS classification of the pre-processed hypercube, we get a
better performance than any other COS classification with or without post-processing. In fact, the