from the BBC and, as its broadcast and Internet delivery service was one of the earliest to be
established, trends can more easily be ascertained. In doing so, I have tried to highlight the part
that technology development and industrial business requirements have played in enabling this

to happen. Through this process, I have tried to focus on some of the step changes that provided : =
new consumer experiences both big and small that have helped make media available to all. : Sy

We are currently at another of those large step changes in the way broadcast media is both a
produced and consumed. It has already started to change the approach many broadcasters take aed
in commissioning and producing content, and it is certainly having an effect on the way that 22
viewers and listeners are consuming that content. With the increasing use of the Internet allowing : Sg
the exploration of different delivery options, interactivity and new product experiences, changes DNS
are still in progress. The fact that just about anybody with an Internet connection can distribute : =
content highlights just how important it is for traditional broadcasters to react to this change by : &

moving into an Internet publishing model, as standing still is not an option if they are to remain
relevant to evolving audiences and consumption patterns. BARB has just started to measure an
ever increasing range of media consumption on Internet-based platforms. In their latest report on
catch-up viewing [22], they note a new trend with Sky viewers that came as a surprise to them,
where they state that in July 2013 the Sky on-demand service accounted for just over 6% of all
time-shifted viewing. By December 2014, this figure had grown to 11%. The significance of this
is that time-shifting content has traditionally been achieved by recording broadcast content for
later viewing, whereas the Sky on-demand service is an Internet-based VoD approach to achieve
the same result. If this continues to grow at this rate, then it could have major implications to
programme distribution for the Sky on-demand service and the infrastructure that supports this.