we can estimate a maximum total capacity per fibre of between 100 and 200 Tbits~!—in reality,
practical /technological/economic constraints are likely to restrict this to around 50 Tbits~! for
commercial systems. In order to increase the per-fibre capacity, we need to be able to increase
each of these factors, either individually or preferably in combination.

(a) Increasing the optical bandwidth

In terms of B, this essentially means developing combinations of optical amplifier and
transmission fibre offering increased net bandwidth. In figure 2, we plot the transmission
bandwidth of silica fibre along with an indication of the approximate usable gain bandwidths
associated with the various rare earth ions that have been shown to provide good optical amplifier
performance, and practical device implementations, when incorporated in a silica-based glass
host. Several things can be taken from this figure: firstly, it confirms the fact that it is the
bandwidth of the EDFA (approx. 10 THz for the C + L bands) that defines the effective bandwidth
constraint for current SSMF technology rather than the intrinsic spectral loss profile of SSMF
itself, which can in principle support reasonable transmission (loss less than 0.4dBkm~') from
wavelengths just below 1300 nm out to around 1700 nm (corresponding to a potential bandwidth
of more than 50 THz). In fact, in practice, current commercial systems only use C-band EDFAs
and thus exploit only approximately 5THz of the available SSMF bandwidth. There currently
appears to be little interest among operators to use the L-band, although this may well change
as the economics of building networks evolves as this provides a relatively ready route to an
additional approximately 3 dB capacity for many existing installed links. Secondly, it can be seen
that other than erbium, no other rare earth ion provides good optical amplification within the low-
loss transparency window of SSMF when incorporated in a silica glass host. Ytterbium (and also
neodymium) provide good gain performance in the range approximately 950-1120 nm; however,