Figure 7. 57.7 Tbit s~' amplified WDM/MDM/PDM transmission experiment over a few-mode fibre [34]. (a) Schematic of the :*
experimental set-up, showing (from left to right) the three sets of transmitters for odd and even channels and the channel- :3
under-test, splitting and amplification for launch into the mode multiplexer, transmission over the two few-mode-fibre spans : =
with in-line MM-EDFA, mode demultiplexer and simultaneous reception of the channels transmitted in the three modes for
MIMO processing. AWG, arrayed waveguide grating multiplexer; DAC, digital-to-analogue converter; WSS, wavelength-selective
switch; LO, local oscillator. (6) Measured bit-error-rates (markers) of all 96 channels in each of the three modes and optical
spectrum (blue curve) of all 96 channels after transmission over the 119 km of few-mode-fibre with a mid-span amplifier.
Adapted from [5].

While low cross-talk and zero net DMGD are aspirational targets in terms of reducing
the computational cost of MIMO processing, the optimum fibre parameters are likely to be
defined in practice by other considerations. Indeed, many contend that since MIMO processing
is almost unavoidable, the optics should be designed to take most advantage of this fact both
in terms of offering new opportunities for low-loss spatial channel multiplexing, for example,
allowing the use of photonic lanterns which naturally excite orthogonal groups of modes rather
than distinct modes for use as spatial channels [37], and to reduce the effects of intermodal
dispersion/gain/loss to maximum benefit. For example, for a system exhibiting weak mode-
coupling then a given data symbol carried by multiple modes with different group indices
will spread in time linearly with fibre length. However, if we use a fibre exhibiting strong
mode-coupling, the temporal spread follows a random-walk process and this will scale with
the square-root of fibre length [38]. Counterintuitively then perhaps, strong mode-coupling can
potentially reduce the number of taps required for MIMO processing and consequently the DSP
complexity. Indeed, this is analogous to the use of spinning to reduce PMD in current SMFs.
Similarly, the impact of differential modal gain and loss can in principle be largely mitigated by
strong mode-coupling over a suitable length scale relative to the amplifier spacing [39]. Similarly,