(TOFs) in his hydrogases-facilitated reaction of 10°-104s~!—he emphasized the importance of
the detailed structural architecture of the amino acid moieties situated at large distances (several
tens of angstrém) from the catalytically active Ni- and Fe-active sites. The systems studied by him
and others on enzymes are ideal for the investigation of the role of entities situated in the second
and third shells from the active centre. Another feature of his work is that the precise structure
(in atomic detail) of his immobilized catalysts is known so well, and is, moreover, amendable to : =
delicate change by site-directed mutagenesis. His studies with his collaborators, Rhiannon Evans :
and Simon Phillips, constitute elegant examples of a special and important kind of heterogeneous
catalysts where the complex nature of the active site is exceptionally well defined. nee)

Dr Cynthia Friend’s presentation [2] reminded us, inter alia, that density functional theory :
(DFT) calculation of binding energies of small molecules to metal surfaces must also include van a]
der Waals interactions, a fact that has only recently been appreciated by many computational DNS
scientists. She also adumbrated aspects of her work on self-regenerating Au-Ag, mesopore if
catalysts of composition Agy 93 Auo.97- as)

In Peijun & Wang’s paper [13], on the very topic of using DFT for catalyst design, especially .
those that facilitate the transformation of amides, by hydrogenation, to amides, he showed that
single-phase catalysts are of little use.

The fuel cell paper by Petra Cameron dealt with minute quantities of electrical output, but with
the use of whole (biological) cells immobilized on an electrode surface. Their advantages include
cheapness (no requirement for prior purification), and they are more stable than immobilized
isolated enzymes. They are also self-healing. Her microbial fuel cells, apart from generating small
currents of useful power, can also be used for the treatment of waste water and for sensing