A few microparticles with a silicate composition obviously represent mineral grains. The most
likely source of these grains was the lake water, although contamination cannot be completely
excluded. Contamination could potentially come from the drilling fluid and/or the borehole walls
in the debris-laden ice layer (3537-3618 m). Examination of accreted ice cores suggests negligible
amount of inclusions outcropping in the walls that could be eroded by lake water flux with
subsequent importation of mineral grains from suspension into the rising core barrel. In order
to test other possibilities for contamination, we analysed 50 mg of drilling fluid sampled from the
3415 m depth and filtered using an ash-free filter. An SEM study showed that the drilling fluid
contained microparticles, but all identified were metal (Fe, Zn, Ni, Cu) oxides.

In the 2013 season, 30 m of the frozen lake water was sampled by drilling. Unfortunately, the
rising water was heavily polluted with kerosene, which came from the abandoned (blind) 5G-
1 borehole (figure 1). This fact severely restricted the study of biomarkers and primary water
composition but was not restrictive for the recognition of the mineral fraction carried with the
lake water. We did not expect to find particles larger than 10—20 1m because they had to settle
from upper levels of water (at least below 30 m) before the water froze (i.e. in 22-24h).

Two ice cores of frozen water from 3429 m (40 cm long) and 3448 m (30 cm long) were analysed
in an attempt to detect mineral microparticles. Both samples were treated in clean rooms; they
were superficially decontaminated (to exclude post-drilling pollution), melted and filtered. The
filter cakes were used as specimens for SEM studies. The specimen prepared from the 3429 m ice
core was analysed in the Laboratory of Electronic Microscopy, Université J. Fourier (LEM UJF,
Grenoble, France) using the Zeiss Ultra 55 and X-ray microanalyser Bruker 127 eV, while another
core was studied in VSEGEI with aforesaid equipment.
