condition, there will be participants who indicate that the second advert makes them feel happy
in the double rating condition, and also indicate that the same advert makes them feel unhappy
in the single rating condition (all key comparisons are within participants!). Overall, we predict
that, for the NP condition, the probability that second adverts in the double rating condition elicit
a happy response will be greater than in the single rating condition. Analogously, for the PN
condition, we predict that the probability that second adverts in the double rating condition elicit
a happy response will be lower than in the single rating condition. :
A second methodological question concerns the amount of time that participants had to [=
process the images in the different conditions in the three experiments reported in White et al. In
the double rating condition, they saw the first image for 5s and then had no limit on the amount
of time they could take before providing their response. But in the single rating condition, they nee)
just saw the first image for 5s, before being presented with the second image. So a difference in
ratings might arise from the fact that people process the first image in the double rating condition a]
for longer, perhaps increasing the likelihood of more deliberative or strategic processing. Such DNS
processing possibly implies that the image would leave a stronger impression and have greater area
saliency or become more accessible, as a point of reference, when considering the second image. a
The rating of the second image in our experiments may be affected by a process of affective .
priming of the first image. Affective priming is the finding that processing of an affective stimulus
can be faster and more accurate when preceded by a stimulus of the same valence as opposed
to an oppositely valenced prior stimulus. Does affective priming depend on processing time?
Actually, there is a large body of research on affective priming, which suggests that the evaluation
of a stimulus’ valence does not depend on the amount of processing time. Affective priming
research indicates that judgements are formed automatically, independently of other cognitive
processes (even without fully processing the features of the stimulus) and can be generated
in response to novel stimuli [27-33]. The evidence indicates that affective priming occurs most