radial numerical (solid line) incident-wave pressure at a fixed radial distance r. From left to right: r = 0.0895, 0.1590, 0.3593
and 0.7 m. po is the ambient pressure. (Online version in colour.) nee)

because it is relatively close to the explosion source and, further, is the smallest distance for a
which tabulated values for pmax and 6 are provided in [14]. This resulted in a cavity with initial a
radius ro = 0.03 m, density pog = 1630.0 kg mand pressure pog =2 x 10!° Pa. Figure 2 shows the .
comparison between the incident-wave pressure as predicted by the radial numerical solution
and by the empirical formula (3.1) at four radial distances from the initial explosion. The results
reveal a good description of the pressure decay in time. With reference to the maximum pressure,
as expected, the two predictions are identical at r= 0.0895 m while the present solution tends to
underestimate more and more the empirical pmax for increasing distances from the charge. This
does not mean that the numerical solution necessarily provides a less accurate pressure prediction
moving far from the initial explosion. In fact, the good comparison with the incident-wave
pressure observed at r= 0.7m, which corresponds to the radial distance of the plate, highlights
the good performances of the model. In more detail, figure 3 reveals that, once the rising times
of the two solutions are synchronized (this involving a shift of 0.018 ms), the time history of the
numerical pressure reproduces very well the experimental one of Hung ef al. [14]. This means that
the numerical explosion has a small error in terms of propagation speed, i.e. it is slightly faster
than the physical one, but it can capture better the maximum experimental pressure than the
empirical formula proposed in [14] and behaves similarly to such a formula in terms of time decay.
Moreover, despite the simplifications used in modelling the explosion, the numerical prediction
of 30.5 ms for the first oscillation period of the gas cavity (figure 1b) is not far from the value of
26.7 ms observed in the model tests.

The interaction between the underwater explosion and the target plate was studied using, for