assume that the underlying PDF is given a priori. By contrast, part of the concomitant analysis
involves extracting the PDF from the data and there is no univocal procedure with which
everyone agrees. Almost 10 years ago, Bandt & Pompe (BP) introduced a successful methodology
for the evaluation of the PDF associated with scalar time-series data using a symbolization
technique [15]. For a didactic description of the approach, as well as its main biomedical and
econophysics applications, see [38].

The pertinent symbolic data are (i) created by ranking the values of the series and (ii) defined
by reordering the embedded data in ascending order, which is tantamount to a phase-space
reconstruction with embedding dimension (pattern length) D and time lag rt. In this way, it
is possible to quantify the diversity of the ordering symbols (patterns) derived from a scalar
time series. Note that the appropriate symbol sequence arises naturally from the time series
and no model-based assumptions are needed. In fact, the necessary ‘partitions’ are devised by
comparing the order of neighbouring relative values rather than by apportioning amplitudes
according to different levels. This technique, as opposed to most of those in current practice,
takes into account the temporal structure of the time series generated by the physical process
under study. This feature allows us to uncover important details concerning the ordinal
structure of the time series [26,39,40] and can also yield information about temporal correlation
[16,17]. It is clear that this type of analysis of time series entails losing some details of the
original series’ amplitude information. Nevertheless, just by referring to the series’ intrinsic
structure, a meaningful difficulty reduction has indeed been achieved by Bandt & Pompe with
regard to the description of complex systems. The symbolic representation of time series by


recourse to a comparison of consecutive (t = 1) or non-consecutive (t > 1) values allows for an