The two principal response types were also identified in realistic yeast mRNAs. We therefore
propose that proteins can be categorized with respect to starvation for a specific amino acid: those
which are robust to changes in amino acid concentration, and those which are highly affected. We
have presented a natural example where the production of a protein involved in aminoacylation
is robust, but the production of a protein responsible for degrading that amino acid responds
strongly. Although we cannot draw any firm conclusions from our limited simulations, one could
hypothesize that the production of proteins crucial to cell function could be prioritized over that of
others using this mechanism. This would be consistent with the correlation between slow codon
arrangement and protein function reported in [14], as well as other recent studies which show
that many mRNA sequences have slow codons positioned close to the initiation site [38,39].

When considering a codon species whose tRNA delivers an amino acid which is not subject
to starvation, we find that the charging level of this species can in fact increase in response
to starvation. This agrees with previous studies which suggest that tRNA charging levels
depend on the balance between their supply and demand [20,3740], and the phenomenon
has also been observed experimentally [3]. Reduced protein production from some mRNAs
can free up resources, which can then be used by other mRNAs leading to increased
protein production.

In contrast with previous models we have explicitly taken the codon sequence into account.
Our description is, however, deterministic and is essentially a mean field treatment. This latter
point refers to the fact that as y; refers to an average over mRNAs (see ยง2), we do not take into
account any spatial correlations in the density. Although correlations are likely to have a large
impact on density profiles around bottleneck sites, by comparing with stochastic models which do
take correlations into account [19,41] we predict that the overall behaviour is unlikely to change