uncertainty continues to be underscored in public and political discourse as a reason not to act : 3
on climate change. It is therefore important to communicate uncertainty in a manner that better : 8
calibrates people’s risk perceptions with the actual anticipated consequences of climate change. 73

A growing body of the literature has revealed that the communication of uncertainty
influences attitudes and behaviour relating to climate change (e.g. [9-12]). When uncertainty is
high, people have stronger intentions to take action against climate change when projections
highlight the likelihood of negative consequences not materializing as opposed to the likelihood
of negative consequences materializing [11]. For example, people who were told that ‘It is 10%
to 30% likely that global warming will not cause abrupt and severe changes to regional weather
patterns’ showed stronger intentions to act than those told ‘It is 70% to 90% likely that global
warming of 2°C will cause abrupt and severe changes to regional weather patterns’. This effect
can be explained by the fact that those focusing on the more desirable outcome (ie. global
warming not causing abrupt and severe changes to weather patterns) were more convinced of
the effectiveness of environmental action than those focusing on the more undesirable outcome
(i.e. global warming causing abrupt and severe changes to weather patterns). People also
display a more positive attitude towards climate change mitigation when policies are justified by
emphasizing the possibility of negative events not materializing as opposed to when justifications
highlight the possibility of negative events occurring as a consequence of a failure to mitigate [12].
Messages about climate change that contain uncertainty also have a stronger influence on peoples’
willingness to act when the message describes science as a debate rather than as a search of an
absolute truth [13]. The source of the uncertainty also influences people’s behaviour. Projections
have a stronger influence on people’s judgements of the likelihood of climate change events when
the uncertainty is inherent in the climate model, as opposed to when it is due to conflict between
experts [14].