had not. ‘[T]heir almost complete failure to bring about rural electrification makes legislative relief
imperative’ [27, p. viii]. Giant Power did not entail state ownership of the electricity industry, but
it did call for active involvement and affirmative regulation. Rural electricity was a market failure,
and the government would step in where the market had failed.


Pinchot’s aspiration for Giant Power was frankly utopian—that ‘the drudgery of human life
can be taken from the shoulders of men and women who toil, and [be] replaced by the power
of electricity’ [27, p. v|—but the argument presented for it was empirical. Pinchot stressed that
the report ‘proposes to deal with facts as it finds them’ [27, p. viii]. The epigraph insisted that
‘Electrical development has brought the Commonwealth to the threshold of momentous changes
in industry and transportation and in the life of the people ... To act wisely in this situation
facts must be our guide’. These declarations—supported by the copious detail presented in the
report—were no doubt a nod towards a problem the report’s authors knew they would face:
industry resistance in the form of empirical counterclaims and disinformation.

Giant Power was not socialist in the sense of government ownership of the means of
production, but it certainly threatened private interests. No doubt for this reason Pinchot stressed
that he was not advocating public ownership. On the contrary, he was trying to find a means :
to avoid it. ‘If the people of the United States ever turn to the nation-wide public ownership of =
electric utilities, it will be because the companies have driven them to it’ [27, p. x]. The Giant 3
Power Survey Board stressed that ‘respect for investors’ rights was essential to the continued
attraction of the capital needed to finance expansion [32, pp. 3-4]. However, the proposal did nee)
envisage a Giant Power Board authorized to construct and operate coal-generating power plants, :
to mine the needed coal; to appropriate land as needed to mine coal in specific locations to [4