
Newton's view on mechanics was eminently geometrical. In the first part of the Prefatio, [o
he remarked that geometry emerges from mechanics. Only 63 years after the publication of D8
the Principia, Leonhard Euler wrote the second law of motion, the balance of momentum, in .
the differential form that we use today, in an article entitled Decouverte d’un nouveau principe
de mécanique, read in front of the Berliner Academy on 3 September 1750, and published 2
years later [2]. The balance of the moment of momentum, which is not explicitly discussed
in Newton’s Principia, appeared in a 1703 article by Jakob Bernoulli [3]. Newton’s Principia
evidenced problems and techniques, had a decisive impact on the development of the scientific
thought and opened a path along which rational mechanics developed systematically. Newton’s
viewpoint indicated new territories both in the norms adopted to explain concepts and in the
mathematical techniques, but already the ancient Greeks had the perception of the vastness of the
subject. In fact, the oldest text on mechanics that we know of is in Greek: Mechanical Questions.
Historians still debate whether we have to attribute it to Aristotle (384-322 BC), Archytas of
Tarentum (428-347 BC), or even and more generically we can affirm it has been written by some
fellow of the Lyceum in Athens to interpret some phenomena in the terms of Aristotelian natural
philosophy [4]. The list of topics discussed in Mechanical Questions includes cases that can be
analysed by considering the scheme of rigid bodies and also cases where strain plays a prevalent
role, as in the discussion of vorticity in fluids there included.

The idea that the language of mechanics in its theoretical development must be analytical
appears explicitly in the title of the treatise on mechanics that Euler published in 1736, after
having completed it, at 27 years old, in his first period in San Petersburg [5]. Later, in his
Cours de Philosophie Positive, 1830-1842, Auguste Comte emphasized the rational aspect of the
approach to mechanical problems and the status of rational mechanics as an independent