(e.g. [37-40]). For the most likely scenario of a relatively small object of a few hundred metres in [8

diameter wave propagation can be simulated only to a distance of tens of kilometres with such
an all-in-one model approach.

The multi-scale nature of impact-induced tsunami waves suggests the usage of different
models appropriate to deal with the specific processes on different spatio-temporal scales, such as
generation, propagation including shoaling and run-up, separately. Crawford & Mader [41] were
the first to employ such a hybrid approach by combining CTH hydrocode modelling of crater
formation with the ZUNI code for wave propagation simulation. Following this approach, Weiss
et al. [44] coupled iSALE hydrocode modelling with a Boussinesq-type wave propagation code
and the MOST model, allowing quantitative predictions of inundation and run-up heights. Both
studies suffer from the fact that wave propagation did not take a realistic bathymetry into account.

A critical and difficult part is always the coupling between different models and thorough
testing is crucial to make sure that no numerical artefacts result from the change from a high-
resolution computational domain (either full three or two dimensions with cylindrical geometry)
where the compressible Navier-Stokes equations are solved (region of crater formation) to
the computational domain where material flow is calculated by shallow-water or Boussinesq
approximation on a two-dimensional grid (longitude and latitude). In commonly used tsunami
propagation models, the wave height and water depth are functions of longitude and latitude,
and the actual thickness of the water column and flow velocities as a function of depth are not
resolved. Such models are only applicable to waves longer than 10-20 times the water depth.
Shorter waves (typical for impacts) with a wavelength-to-depth ratio of 2 or greater can be
modelled with pCOULWAVE [45]. The code considers the varying orbital velocity v as a function