temperature response to different forcing magnitudes and timescales cannot be fully described
with the assumption of a constant feedback parameter 4 even in models that ignore long-term
Earth system feedbacks (ice sheets, dynamic vegetation, permafrost), non-CO) forcings, chemistry
and land-use change. In our models, the feedback parameter varies by about 50% or more
between different forcing magnitudes and over time as the system approaches equilibrium. The
concept of a universal constant climate sensitivity as a fundamental climate system property
is very likely wrong, even when ignoring many feedbacks and forcings. This could be an
explanation—next to model biases in feedback strength—for the questions outlined in §1
(figure 2). The inconsistency of ECS estimates based on the observed warming and those based
on GCMs with freely evolving SST evolution could be partly caused by the assumption of a
constant 4. The estimates based on the observed warming, which use an effective radiative forcing
estimated from GCMs together with the assumption of a constant 4, would be biased low, if 4
would, in fact, not be constant but time or temperature dependent, as shown in figure 4b. In the
same way, a state and temperature dependency of 4 makes the mapping of GCM, palaeo-proxy
and short-term observational estimated sensitivities a lot more difficult.

Does this imply the zero-order linear energy balance model is useless? A model is always
wrong with regard to reality in a strict sense, but the constant feedback parameter model may
still be an adequate approximation for some purposes. As an example, in our case, running the
CESM model for 200 years and ignoring the first 150 years for the regression of N against AT,
would allow us to predict the further evolution of the model. We argue that the quote ‘modelling
for insight, not numbers’ makes an essential point here [102]. We have to conclude that the global
linear forcing feedback model may be of limited value to estimate quantities like the ECS of the
real world, or at least we have to be more careful in understanding and quantifying in which range
of forcings, timescales and climate states a simple model with a constant feedback parameter can