There are ‘top-down methods’, in which a global feedback is inferred from a global energy balance
equation, and ‘bottom-up methods’, in which the total feedback is an emerging property of the
myriad processes that we try to model quantitatively based on insight into each process and data
obtained to constrain or parametrize it. There are, of course, methods in between that combine
elements. All methods have in common that they are a fusion of models and observations, and
there is no pure observational constraint on ECS. Either we define a simple conceptual model
like an energy balance model, aggregate the inputs and constrain ECS, such as relating forcing
to cooling in the last glacial maximum. We then use complex models to argue that the simple
model is correct and consequently use simple models to predict future warming. Alternatively,
we use a complex model directly and relate whatever observations we have straight to model
quantities, and use a constrained set of models for prediction [43,45,123,124]. In this case, the
mapping of a palaeoclimate sensitivity to a modern ECS is not prescribed, but is implicit in the
GCM by the fact that feedback changes spatially and as a function of the climate state in the GCM.
In all of those questions, the treatment of uncertainties is key. In an energy balance approach, the
uncertainties for different time periods are dominated by either uncertainties in radiative forcing,
feedback, ocean heat uptake or natural variability. For palaeoclimate, the perturbations are large


and the response is close to equilibrium, but forcing and response are uncertain. The strength of | |
the feedbacks may differ, and additional feedbacks may become relevant, as discussed with the
difficulties in defining ECS versus ESS in §2. For short timescales and forcings other than CO2, a
the feedbacks are different, and variability is large. For climatological constraints, the problem 1B
is that climate models have common biases pointing to common problems in representing key :<
feedbacks, because many relevant processes are not resolved but parametrized. Therefore, all :8
methods have uncertainties in the climate models, the observations, the forcings, in structural and 18