

Figure 3. Maximum tsunami-induced currents in harbour map for Kahului, Hawaii from the 11 March 2011 Japanese tsunami.
Arrows indicate direction of flow, while arrow length represents current speed.

Another tsunami warning product that is possible with the establishment of a deep-ocean
tsunami detection array is a tsunami magnitude scale based on accurate real-time tsunami
energy estimates. The total energy transmitted by tsunami waves is one of the most fundamental
quantities for quick estimation of the potential impact of a tsunami. Recognizing the importance
of such scale, Kajiura [34] suggested several means of estimating the tsunami energy in 1981.
However, he concluded that the direct tsunami measurements (only tide gauges at the time) were
not adequate to estimate tsunami energy in a post-event mode, let alone in a real-time mode.
The seismic source parameters’ uncertainties and the fact that only a small fraction (around 0.1%)
of the energy released from an earthquake is transferred into the ocean to generate a tsunami
[28] make the seismic magnitude too crude an estimate for the tsunami energy. Kajiura [34]
estimated a factor of 2-3 to be the best accuracy possible with tide gauge and seismic data,
which made the energy scale impractical at the time. While seismic analysis of an earthquake has
improved since 1981, the factor of 2 accuracy for the earthquake parameters is still the limiting
factor for the tsunami energy estimates, especially in the real-time tsunami warning situation.
DART data provide new opportunities for direct estimate of the tsunami energy quickly and
accurately. The DART-inverted source quantifies the amount of energy that propagates outside
the source area in the form of long gravity waves that define coastal impacts. As such, it gives
all affected coastlines an estimate of the tsunami’s potential impact and an accurate threshold
for action. Tang et al. [28] showed that the tsunami energy based on one DART measurement
was available within 56 min from the time of generation during the 2011 Japanese tsunami. This