The starting point of our investigation of ground handling was an MSC.ADAMS model
that was developed by the Landing Gear Group of Airbus for ground-handling studies [38].
MSC.ADAMS is a software program that can analyse kinematic, quasi-static and dynamic
mechanical systems. The first modelling step is to describe the rigid parts and the joints
connecting the parts [39], where a part is described by its mass, inertia and orientation. The nose :
gear is constrained by a cylindrical joint, driven by an angular motion, and the main gears are =

constrained by translational joints. The next step is the addition of internal force elements, known Sy
as line of sight forces, to represent the shock absorbers and tyre forces. The tyres are modelled 2
with impact functions that switch on as soon as the distance between the wheel centre and the tyre aed
becomes less than the wheel radius, where the lateral force on a tyre is dependent on the slip angle 22
and the vertical force on the tyre. External forces such as thrust and aerodynamic forces, known as : Ss
action-only forces, are then added. The value of such a software tool for a company lies in the fact : s
that the equations of motion are constructed automatically, allowing the engineer to focus on the : s
engineering aspects of the system, and not the derivation of complex equations. As MSC.ADAMS : &

cannot be coupled to the DST, a process was developed to translate the MSC.ADAMS model to
SimMechanics, which can be coupled to the DST. While there are important differences between
the two modelling packages, the development of the SimMechanics model followed that of the
ADAMS model.

After the successful coupling of the industrial ground-handling model to the DST, the first step
in the analysis is to find an equilibrium condition for the aircraft. In our case, a velocity controller
is used to accelerate the aircraft to a desired steady-state velocity over a few seconds. The thrust is
then held constant until the steady-state response is reached. The corresponding values are then