and stable periodic solutions and even chaotic motion can be found. Increasing the steering angle
5 past the left-most Hopf bifurcation or decreasing it past the right-most Hopf bifurcation results
in the onset of (initially small) stable oscillations. The aircraft will start shaking, giving the pilot a
warning that the steering angle or thrust needs to be altered to move out of this region (figure 7e).
When 54 is brought into the region around 30°, then the periodic orbit is actually unstable and
more complicated aircraft motion is found, which manifests itself as a complicated ground track
(figure 7b).

The stable branch of equilibria in the lower right of the bifurcation diagram represents circular
trajectories of the aircraft with a very small radius. The aircraft actually becomes stationary at very
high steering angles, and (f) is an example. In this stopped position, a force impulse (e.g. a thrust
impulse or wind gust) causes the nose gear to start dragging across the ground if no braking is :
applied (the aircraft will in fact stay stationary if the brakes are applied). The aircraft accelerates =
in a straight line, as is shown by (g), until a velocity on the top branch (i) is reached. This stable 3
branch (h) of equilibria is somewhat counterintuitive in the sense that the radius of the circular
trajectory decreases as the steering angle is decreased. Note that the radius of (g) is almost the nee)
same as the radius of (a). When the stability of this branch is lost by decreasing the steering angle :
5 to below the saddle—node bifurcation at 5 * 50° the aircraft performs an inward spiral, as is [4
shown by (i), until an equilibrium corresponding to a smaller turning circle is reached. Here, the DN
inner gear tyres saturate, which is accompanied by a pitch-down motion. Then, the nose-gear [5
tyres saturate, with a load shift to the outer gear. [8

A complete map can be constructed by conducting similar continuation runs at different ,
thrust levels, as well as conducting two-parameter continuations of the saddle-node and Hopf
bifurcations. This map can then be used to identify critical areas for further investigation, similar