
The distinction tween facts and hypotheses influenced the narrative style of ‘Observations’.
Priestley [30, pp. ii-xx, 576-577; 18, Part 1, pp. 36-39] developed the ‘analytical and historical
style’ of writing in his earlier work in electricity and its history, for which he was elected
a member of the Royal Society in 1766, and he continued to adopt it in all his subsequent
scientific publications. He designed his new style to offset the prevalent ‘synthetic style’ of
presentation, which by assimilating science to the axiomatic theoretical activity of a few men
of genius, such as Isaac Newton, discouraged many people from making discoveries of their
own. Priestley wrote for a scientific community envisioned by his Dissenting interests in
individual liberty, associationist notions of the epistemological equality of all men, and Baconian
principles of the division of labour [31, pp. 132-135]. According to Priestley, discoveries in natural
philosophy depended not on individual moments of illumination in men of genius, but on
the ability to take infinite pains in gathering facts, and could therefore be made by anyone.
Designed to facilitate the inquiries of contemporary and future experimentalists, Priestley’s
scientific publications bristled with observations and experimental details, without much concern
for the formal niceties of his theoretical constructions and hypothetical explanations. These
sentiments induced Priestley to include in ‘Observations’ [1, pp. 253-256, 257-264] and his
other major scientific publications, separate sections dealing with ‘Miscellaneous Observations’
and ‘Appendices’ consisting of notes and letters from members of a growing community of
practitioners, or ‘Queries, Speculations and Hints’ for others to pursue [10, vol. 1, pp. 258-285;
18, Part II, pp. 109-112]. The importance Priestley placed on policing the boundaries between
‘facts’ and ‘hypotheses’ is evident in the penultimate section of the fifth volume of Experiments
and Observation on Different Kinds of Air [16, vol. 2, pp. 325-365], published in 1781, where he took
the unusual step of providing a 40-page ‘Summary View of All the most remarkable Facts in
this and the four preceding volumes’. Priestley here compiled the more significant and agreed-