and the magnetic permeability tensor need to be equal everywhere, €= L [1]. This condition
also automatically guarantees electromagnetic impedance matching (no reflections anywhere).
However, the losses of today’s optical magnetic metamaterials typically correspond to FOM < 10,
which means that one could only cloak objects that are more than ten times smaller than the
wavelength, ie. s/A < 0.1.

So what can be done experimentally in optics given these constraints? The situation changes
for surroundings other than vacuum/air. For example, in water (or glass) at visible wavelengths,
the wave speed is slower than in vacuum by a factor n= 1.33 (or n=1.5). Herein, dispersion
and absorption can approximately be neglected, although they are not strictly zero. This means
that the electromagnetic energy can move 33% (or 50%) faster than in this isotropic surrounding
without getting into conflict with relativity. This allows for coordinate transformations that obey
n(r) > 1 everywhere in the cloak and that appreciate the fact that, in the visible range, the
maximum refractive index of known reasonably transparent off-resonant constituent materials
is limited to about 1 = 3. To avoid material anisotropies and to obtain a polarization-independent
behaviour (see above), the possible coordinate transformations must be restricted to conformal
maps (see above). These thoughts combined form the basis for the so-called carpet (or ground-
plane) cloak [2], which makes a curved line (a curved reflecting surface) appear like a straight line
(flat mirror). However, conformal maps lead to infinitely large cloaks. Thus, the original work
[23] was based on quasi-conformal mapping. It was later shown [24] that truncating the material
distribution derived from the strictly conformal map leads to similar results. The latter has the
advantage that one obtains analytical expressions for the refractive-index distribution.

Next, this distribution must be translated into a concrete micro- or nanostructure. This step
can be accomplished by mimicking the local refractive index by a sub-wavelength composite of