
Here, an alternative and novel way to understand these correlations is proposed, based
on the concept of global invariant sets in state space, and fractal invariant sets in particular.
Importantly, local properties of such sets cannot be determined by finite algorithm—they are
formally non-computational. While generic to a broad class of nonlinear dynamical system,
fractal invariant sets are not especially familiar concepts to many quantum physicists and
philosophers. Hence, in §2, to illustrate the power of the global invariant set in providing
a new perspective on this long-studied problem, we consider a simple analogy: a gedanken
experiment in which, depending on whether a radioactive atom decays, a massive object is
fired into a black hole. We consider the temporal correlation between the size of the black hole
at to, as determined by the radius of its event horizon #+(to), and the (supposed) hidden
variable of the radioactive atom at ft). The existence of such a correlation, even when to < tH,
is easy to understand (without conspiracy or retrocausality) if we take into account the fact that
H* is a globally defined invariant subset of space-time. In particular, like the fractal invariant
set, 7+ (to)’s local properties cannot be defined from the neighbouring space-time geometry
near fo.

Two properties of fractal attracting invariant sets in state space are discussed in §3: their non-
computability, and the notion that such sets are, in a well-defined sense, ‘large’ when looked at
from the inside, yet ‘small’ when looked at from the outside. The key thesis which underpins the
subsequent analysis in this paper is then proposed: that states of physical reality lie precisely on a
(fractal) invariant set in the state space of the universe—the Cosmological Invariant Set Postulate.
In §4, it is shown how a development of these ideas, referred to as Invariant Set Theory, can
nullify the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) version of the Bell theorem, determinism and
causality notwithstanding. In §5, it is shown that the proposed nullification suffers from none of