In November 2013, the Royal Society funded a workshop on ‘New geometric concepts in the
foundations of physics’ at Chicheley Hall. This workshop, organized by Andreas Doring and
Tim Palmer, brought together a number of researchers, some very well established and some
young, who are all interested in the foundations of physics, and who mostly incorporate new
geometric ideas into their foundational work. A broad range of approaches was represented at the
workshop, from the mostly mathematical to the phenomenological. Many contributors presented
novel, non-mainstream ideas, and lively discussions ensued. Subsequently, we suggested to
Philosophical Transactions A to publish a themed issue with the same title as the Chicheley
workshop. This issue is not a ‘mere’ proceedings, though, but also contains a number of
contributions by researchers who were not present at the workshop.

Calmet [1] considers a potential energy dependence of Planck’s constant f and the
corresponding modified quantization rules from a phenomenological point of view. The fact that
Newton’s ‘constant’ Gx is energy-dependent and becomes renormalized (in a tentative quantum
theory of the gravitational interaction) suggests considering a potential energy dependence also
of h. It turns out that at low energy of ca 100 MeV, the anomalous magnetic moment of the muon
puts a rather strict limit on the energy dependence of Planck’s constant, while arguments from
inflation show that also at very high energies of ca 10!° GeV, h must be non-zero.

Cruz Morales & Zilber [2] present progress towards a reformulation of key aspects of quantum
mechanics using model theory. This approach pays particular attention to (mathematical)
structures, number systems and approximations that physicists use, mostly implicitly, in the
formulation of quantum theory, and aims to make them explicit and to axiomatize them in model-
theoretic terms. Zilber and Cruz Morales develop the outlines of a duality theory between rational
Weyl algebras and Zariski geometries and the extension of this duality to algebras that can be