ab = RD
Taking y to be a ray—which is simply connected, with topology R (by M’s global
hyperbolicity)—we use local twistor transport to propagate (@, ) uniquely all along y, thereby
providing us with our canonical twistor space T;, assigned to y. Correspondingly, we shall have
spaces PT), N, and PN), just as in §1.

We ask what the relation between each PN, and the global space PN of rays in M might be.
Within each T,,, the ray y, when z-scaled to I’, can itself be unambiguously represented by (0, 74’) a
all along y, this being unchanged by local twistor transport along y (since (44 « #424’ and [=
a4 x4 =0). When M is confomally flat (and simply connected), the integrability of local twistor :8
transport allows us to achieve this globally for the whole of PN, where a x-scaled ray 7 in M that :
meets y in a point q would be represented at q by the local twistor (0, 7’), in both Ty and T,, ae
where aaa provides the direction and m-scaling for 7. In fact the spaces N,, — {0} are all canonically eae
isomorphic with each other, and (locally) with WV itself. [4

On the other hand, in the general case, the non-integrability of local twistor transport prevents ae
such a global twistorial representation of V in this way. Instead, the idea of palatial twistor :s
theory is that the holomorphic twistor Heisenberg algebras associated with each T,,, though not 1B
necessarily canonically identified with one another locally, would constitute a kind of A-bundle B .
over WN that is holomorphic in an appropriate sense. Such holomorphicity would not arise simply
from the normal geometrical structures in M, in the presence of conformal curvature, because the
complex structure of PT is interpreted, in M, in terms of the vanishing of shear in ray congruences
[2], whereas the Weyl tensor provides the measure of change of shear along rays. Accordingly,
when ™M is conformally curved, we do not get a natural complex structure for \V (or, rather,
natural CR-structure, like the one that N inherits from T). In palatial twistor theory, we obtain