
a much bolder question was asked and answered. What underlying principle could explain the
cyclic polytopes, and what would such a principle suggest for amplitudes in general? The answer,
at first sight surprising for a theory based on complex analytic structure, is positivity.

At the end of 2012, Arkani-Hamed et al. [27] announced the theory of the positive Grassmannian.
Although in 2009 it was only an isolated observation that certain polytope volumes gave
the amplitudes, this new theory offered an explanation of the polytopes from an underlying
principle, which then extends to all levels. This positivity principle is so fundamental that
locality and unitarity become derived properties. It should be noted that ‘positivity’ refers to
positive conditions on (generalized) twistor coordinates and has nothing to do with reality or
positive quantities in Minkowski space-time. It is a concept which is based on the simple ordering
of real numbers, on the one-dimensional level, but exploits the fact that this has remarkable higher
dimensional analogues.

Notably, this paper refers to on-shell diagrams as the primary objects. They are essentially
the same as Penrose’s original twistor diagrams, though now considered more abstractly and
endowed with a well-defined graph-theoretic structure. In particular, the question of the correct
equivalence classes of twistor diagrams is completely solved. It will be recalled that this problem
was inherent in the diagram formalism from the outset, exemplified by the different possible
diagrams for Compton scattering. This example now becomes an illustration in miniature of the
structure generated by the graph theory. The equivalence of the two single-box diagrams is in
fact a case of the ‘square identity’ which defines the equivalence classes. The validity of Penrose’s
original double-box structure, however, is an aspect of the capacity of the full diagram theory
to represent loop-level amplitudes and the reduction of these to their leading singularities. On