positive conditions on (generalized) twistor coordinates and has nothing to do with reality or
positive quantities in Minkowski space-time. It is a concept which is based on the simple ordering
of real numbers, on the one-dimensional level, but exploits the fact that this has remarkable higher
dimensional analogues.

Notably, this paper refers to on-shell diagrams as the primary objects. They are essentially
the same as Penrose’s original twistor diagrams, though now considered more abstractly and
endowed with a well-defined graph-theoretic structure. In particular, the question of the correct
equivalence classes of twistor diagrams is completely solved. It will be recalled that this problem
was inherent in the diagram formalism from the outset, exemplified by the different possible
diagrams for Compton scattering. This example now becomes an illustration in miniature of the
structure generated by the graph theory. The equivalence of the two single-box diagrams is in
fact a case of the ‘square identity’ which defines the equivalence classes. The validity of Penrose’s
original double-box structure, however, is an aspect of the capacity of the full diagram theory
to represent loop-level amplitudes and the reduction of these to their leading singularities. On
top of this, the graph theory exhibits an amazing one-to-one relationship between graphs and
the permutation group. The classification problems involved with this question turned out to
be intimately related to advanced topics in the pure geometry of the Grassmannian. This analysis
also involves an identification of the diagrams as giving a complete analysis of Yangian invariants.

In subsequent papers, Arkani-Hamed & Trnka [28,29] have given the name of the
amplituhedron to the idea of a space encompassing all the amplitudes, for N =4 gauge theory
in the first instance, but not restricted to that arena. The enlargement from CP to crt, needed
for the NMHV polytopes, is a foretaste of a much larger extension to complex spaces of arbitrary
dimension. The on-shell diagrams are superseded by a more abstract approach, in which the