cell-cell pressure, collisions, cell movement, walls and so on. The output of each cell is signalled
by the production of green fluorescent protein (GFP), which causes cells to ‘glow’ green (light
corresponding to an output value of 1). The simulated surface is divided into quadrants (figure 2,
lower), and each quadrant contains a different combination of input signal molecules. As we first
consider the NOR case, it is clear that we should see an output of 1 only in the quadrant where
both inputs are equal to 0; the simulated population is inoculated in this quadrant, and gradually
grows (through cell division) to occupy the entire surface (time proceeds on the x-axis). We see
that the cells occupying quadrants where either (or both) inputs are equal to 1 do not give off light
(equivalent to an output value of 0); the few cells in the top-right corner that are doing so have
actually been pushed into that quadrant by other cells.

Importantly, we show how a simple change in the definition of a ‘high’ input value (1) can
switch the circuit's functionality from NOR to NAND. The key to this is the fact that the NOR
circuit uses a particular molecular concentration to represent 1; by significantly reducing the input
concentration, the circuit ‘flips’ (without modification into NAND mode (the specifics of how this
works are beyond the scope of this review paper, but full details are given in [52]). In figure 2
(top), we see the results of another simulation, this time for the NAND case, in which we can
clearly see that the only quadrant in which the cells are not ‘on’ is (correctly) the one in which
both inputs are equal to 1.

Figure 4 (adapted from [53]) shows a similar multicellular simulation of a distributed XOR gate
(comparator). This implementation does use conjugation, which facilitates direct cell-cell transfer
of genetic information. We distribute the comparator over three connected NOR gates, which
are engineered into separate bacterial strains (one of which contains the GFP reporter gene). As
shown in figure 4, we observe light only in the cases where the inputs have different values, which