
The second triplet photogeneration process in film having an onset at E ~ 2.8 eV is therefore : s
due to ‘hot’ excitons, and thus occurs on the time scale of the hot exciton thermalization process :<
(approx. 200 fs). There are two possible mechanisms for triplet generation having an onset above : 3S
the optical gap; these are (i) upper excited-state transfer (UEST) [31] that includes hot exciton 13

ISC and (ii) HE-SF [19]. The UEST process would be operative also in isolated chains in solution;
but we did not observe it in DOO-PPV solution, and thus UEST cannot explain our data. We
therefore identify the second triplet generation process at higher energies as interchain HE-SF.

Based on previous studies, it is known that the triplet exciton in DOO-PPV is at Ep ~ 1.45 eV : 8
[22]. We therefore expect that the onset of the second process in the EXPA(w) spectrum would be Dos
at E ~2Er. This is in fact quite close to the experimental data that show an energy threshold at : =
2.8 eV, whereas 2Ey = 2.9 eV. As the HE-SF process here is interchain in nature, we suggest that Sy
the hot-exciton singlet exciton first converts into a TT pair state on two different polymer chains, 2
followed by separation into two triplet excitons on the two chains at a later time, similar to the aed
case of SF in acene crystals. When the polymer chains are isolated, however, as in the DOO-PPV 22
dilute solution, the interchain SF is not possible and therefore the EXPA(w) spectrum in this case : Ss
does not show the second step. It would be interesting to increase the DOO-PPV concentration DNS
in the solution for studying the chain concentration needed for accomplishing the HE-SF process, : =
similar as done for 6,13-bis(triisopropylsilylethynyl)pentacene in solution [15]. 28

SF is a multistep phenomenon, with various photophysical processes that occur on multiple
time scales [32]. In the first step of the SF process, where a photoexcited intrachain singlet
exciton generates a TT pair, both direct and two-step mechanisms have been proposed [33-37].