very little of which was available at the time of the publication of BCF. Two particular aspects
have had a significant impact on these developments. The first is that it became clear that,
despite the widespread evidence for the important role of dislocations in influencing growth,
as manifested by the many observations of growth spirals in surfaces and interfaces, this is
not the only mechanism of growth. In particular, driven by the need to produce highly perfect
semiconductor crystals for applications in electronics (defects acting as scattering centres that
degrade their electrical properties), it was found to be possible to grow large crystals of silicon,
in particular, that are dislocation-free. Most commonly such growth has been from the melt (e.g.
[29-31]), but it has also been shown to be possible using molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). MBE
is an ultra-high-vacuum (UHV) technique in which controlled growth of ultrathin films of high
perfection can be achieved, particularly valuable for the fabrication of modern semiconductor
devices (e.g. [32-34]) including not only two-dimensional films but also one-dimensional wires
and (nominally) zero-dimensional ‘dots’. The fact that such crystals may be free of dislocations
clearly implies that spiral growth at screw dislocations does not play a role, and in general the
growth is based on the generation of single-layer height two-dimensional nuclei followed by
lateral expansion of these layers by step-edge growth until each layer is completed. This layer-
by-layer or Frank—van der Merwe growth can be clearly identified by monitoring diffracted beam
intensities from the surface. Most commonly this is achieved using the technique of reflection
high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED), a technique using grazing incidence and grazing
emergence of the electrons, thus allowing molecular beam sources to be placed directly in front
of the crystal. It is found that the specular diffracted beam intensity oscillates during growth
with a period that corresponds to the completion of new atomic or molecular layers on the


surface. These modulations are attributed to the alternately atomically smooth and rough surface 6 |