component of magnetic field is present. The process of reconnection diffusion is closely connected DNS
with the reconnection between adjacent Alfvénic eddies (figure 12a,b). As a result, adjacent : =
flux tubes exchange their segments with entrained plasmas and flux tubes of different eddies [=

get connected. This process involves eddies of all the sizes along the cascade and ensures fast
diffusion which has similarities with turbulent diffusion in ordinary hydrodynamic flows.

Figure 12c illustrates the evolution of magnetic flux during the process of reconnection
diffusion of magnetic flux out of the circumstellar accretion disc. The magnetic field lines are
smoothed in the picture to illustrate the evolution of the mean magnetic field.

Reconnection diffusion should not necessarily be understood as a concept that makes the
earlier theories of star formation invalid. In fact, turbulence in dark cores giving birth to
stars may be reduced and this may make the traditional ambipolar diffusion, ie. the drift
of neutrals in relation to ions, important. However, reconnection diffusion must be a part of
the star formation paradigm. In fact, it can successfully explain many pieces of observational
data that are completely puzzling within the ambipolar diffusion paradigm. This includes,
for instance, the famous ‘magnetic breaking catastrophe’ for accretion discs which is the
inability of removing magnetic flux from accretion discs fast enough to enable formation
of such discs. Similarly, the poor correlation of density and magnetic field in ISM is also
impossible to explain on the basis of ambipolar diffusion. A comprehensive review dealing
with reconnection diffusion is presented in [90]. Closely related is the recent development
of the ‘turbulent general magnetic reconnection’ theory in [35]. The starting point of this
theory is the understanding that magnetic field line ‘motion’ can be objectively defined only
relative to plasma fluid elements and their magnetic connectivity. In star formation for example,