enhancement when compared with those of silicon nitride reinforced by CNTs. In this section,
we briefly consider the mechanical properties of ceramic-graphene nanocomposites with focuses
placed on toughening micromechanisms operating in these nanocomposites.

Walker et al. [47] exploited spark plasma sintering to fabricate silicon nitride-graphene
nanocomposites. With homogeneously dispersed graphene sheets having thickness of 2nm
or lower (~3-4 carbon atomic layers), the nanocomposite exhibited remarkable mechanical
characteristics. In particular, a silicon nitride nanocomposite containing 1.5 vol% graphene
inclusions shows 235% increase in the fracture toughness (from ~2.8 to ~6.6 MPa m!/’ 2), when
compared with monolithic Siz3N4 material. From a micromechanical viewpoint, toughening of
the nanocomposite occurs through crack deflection, crack bridging by graphene sheets, their
pull-out and necking (figure 5) [47]. It is important to note that cracks do not penetrate across
graphene sheets which in fact form curved two-dimensional structures/surfaces along GBs.
Instead, when a growing crack meets with a graphene sheet, it grows along the sheet and thereby
follows curved path along GB surfaces. This crack deflection effectively hinders crack growth in
the nanocomposites.

Tantalum carbide-graphene nanocomposites were produced by spark plasma sintering and
showed high mechanical characteristics [51]. In particular, these nanocomposites exhibited 99%
increase in the fracture toughness, when compared with their TaC counterparts free from
graphene. The key toughening micromechanisms are experimentally revealed to be bending and
kinking of graphene platelets, sliding of graphene platelets, grain wrapping by graphene, crack
bridging, graphene sheet pull-out and crack deflection [51]. In addition, during the sintering
process, graphene sheets are sheared off graphene platelets in TaC-graphene nanocomposites
[51]. As a corollary, an averaged thickness of graphene inclusions decreases, and their aspect