
(a) The impact of spherical projectiles on anomalous glasses

A general observation from the impact experiments on anomalous glasses was that, for all impact
velocities used, Hertzian cone cracks formed in both fused silica and Pyrex glasses. However, in
both these glasses the included angles of the cone cracks formed were significantly smaller than
the included angles of the cones formed under quasi-static loading.

A sequence of high-speed photographs of the impact of a 1 mm diameter steel sphere at normal
incidence on a block of Pyrex glass at 160m-s~! is shown in figure 3. The impact occurs between
frames 2 and 3 and the ensuing cracks in the Pyrex glass block formed approximately 0.1-0.2 rs
before the end of exposure in frame 3. The uncertainty in the moment of contact is due to the
fact that, at a framing rate of 1 j1s per frame, the exposure time of each frame is one-sixth of the
interframe time. It will be seen in frame 3 that a cone crack of a semi-included angle of 43.5°
has already formed just below the contact between the projectile and the glass and its length, as
measured along the skirt of the cone, is approximately 0.35 mm. Therefore, the velocity of this
cone crack is 3500-1800 ms*~1. In frame 4, the cone crack has already reached the bottom of the
frame, which means that between frames 3 and 4 the cone crack velocity is at least 2500ms—!.
Note that the included angle of the cone crack remains the same as the angle in frame 3. It will
also be seen from frame 4 that on the left of the impact site a radial crack, R, has formed. Another
point to note is that in this frame the cone crack appears dark, which means that the flanks of
the cone crack are slightly lifted upwards relative to the impacted surface, which reduces the
transmission of the light from the flash tube. However, in the very next frame, the flanks of the
cone crack start closing up with the result that more light is transmitted through the crack system.
We estimate that the sphere leaves the surface of the Pyrex block approximately 0.1 \1s before the