5. Discussion

In this work, several aspects of dynamic crack initiation and propagation in inorganic glasses
due to small-particle impact have been examined experimentally using high-speed framing
photography. We shall discuss below each of these aspects separately.

First, we consider the results from the 1 mm diameter steel spheres’ impact on various glasses.
It was found that in all glasses examined, except the B2O03, Hertzian cone cracks formed for
impact velocities of up to approximately 180m s~!. Above this velocity, for example for a velocity
of 200ms~1, the response of the anomalous glasses, Pyrex and fused silica, was quite different
from the response of the soda-lime glass (a normal glass). Whereas in Pyrex Hertzian cone cracks
formed (figure 3), there were no cone cracks formed in the soda-lime glass and instead splinter-
type cracks formed (figure 4). In fact, in fused silica Hertzian cone cracks formed even at the
maximum projectile velocity of approximately 330 ms*!. In the case of the Pyrex, Hertzian cone
cracks formed at the maximum impact velocity of 250ms~! used [16]. Another anomalous glass,
namely GeO, has also shown a similar response [19]. The formation of the Hertzian cone cracks


Figure 11. Impact of a2 mm diameter tungsten carbide sphere on a block of thermally tempered soda-lime glass at a velocity
of 150 ms~. The glass block is placed between two circular polarizers, in order to observe the stress-generated isochromatics.
The black fringe in frame 1 indicates the position in the glass block at which the residual stress is zero. This black fringe
also marks the position at which the residual stress changes from compression to tension. The impact just occurs in frame 3
and in frame 4 splinter cracks initiate and propagate into the tension zone of the block in frame 6. This is followed by self-
sustained development and fragmentation of the entire glass block by the process of repeated bifurcation of cracks (frames
7-12). Interframe time: 1.0 jxs. Frame numbers are 1-6 from top to bottom in the left-hand-side column, and 7—12 from top to