between the intrinsic GB dislocations and the extrinsic slip dislocations are not examined in nee)
this study. It should be added that £3 TBs are also preferential sites for the initiation of :
cracks during monotonic loading in a number of FCC metals, such as high Mn austenitic [4
steels [3]. DN
In many FCC metals which exhibit planar slip owing to their low stacking fault energy (SFE) or [5
to local softening effect associated with particle cutting mechanism in precipitation strengthened :@
materials, fatigue cracks propagate preferentially along {111} planes (stage I regime in fatigue ,
loading). There is thus some analogy in these materials with the interactions between GBs, slip
bands and fatigue cracking at least as far the orientation is concerned. However, the analogy is
limited, because the crystallography of fatigue cracks requires that, in many cases, the crack front
must be fragmented into adjacent parallel segments at the crossing of GBs, as shown later. This
fragmentation phenomenon is even more important for cleavage fracture in body-centred cubic
(BCC) metals. This is largely due to the fact that in BCC materials the number of cleavage planes
is lower than the number of possible slip planes. This produces severe constraints for the crossing
of GBs by cleavage cracks and, in particular, the geometry requires that, during this crossing
process, some part of the fracture surface is intergranular. This interaction between trans- and
intergranular fracture has strong implications on the fracture toughness resistance of ferritic steels
when tested in the lower toughness regime or in the ductile-to-brittle transition (DBT) region, as
shown in the second part of this presentation.
The paper is organized as follows: slip transfer across GBs is examined first. The conditions
necessary for the formation of mechanical twins in FCC metals are briefly recalled in this part
where the results of recent studies on nanocrystalline (NC) and nanotwinned materials are
presented. Then, the general geometrical conditions which have been established in the literature
for slip transmission across GBs are given. These conditions apply for any type of boundary. The
specific case of TBs in FCC metals is analysed in terms of dislocation reactions (both perfect and