More recently, Roberts, Noronha, Wilkinson and Hirsch have employed an analogous relation to
equation (3.4), with addition of a plastic work term, Wp, to yc and specified oé to be determined
by emission of dislocations from the cracked carbide [49]. Consideration of any grain size effect
was excluded.

Petch [50] too had earlier considered an influence of carbide cracking on the predicted grain :
size dependence of Tc. Emphasis was given to the dynamics of slip-induced cracking of grain [=
boundary carbide that then required critical growth of cleavage through the ferrite even for : 3
relatively thick carbide plates. Substitution of 2yp for yc was made in equation (3.4). Calculations 15
were presented for carbide modification of o¢ and reversal of the decreasing Tc dependence on
¢-'/? for different carbide plate thicknesses in the range of 0.25 to 5 «ums. Interesting association DA
of larger carbide thickness and reduced sharpness of the temperature range for the transition tw
was pointed out by Petch, thus adding credence to the modified model of predicting Tc. In fact, :
Sandstrém & Bergstrém [37] had reported a relatively thicker 0.8 1m carbide thickness for the a
10m grain size microalloyed steel and this has very probably contributed to the higher than :3
predicted value of Tc shown in figure 5. :

The calculations reported by Petch for carbide modification of the grain size dependence of o&
were re-cast by Armstrong et al. [26] in terms of the reverse consideration of dependence on t. The
model description compared favourably with notched test results reported by Bowen & Knott
[51]. At the smallest t-values, a comparison was made with Petch’s DBTT predictions for the oé
dependence on ¢~!/?. The indication was that carbide control for conventional grain size material
is normally restricted to carbide thicknesses of approximately 1 jm or larger. A statistical analysis
of main crack linkage with larger carbide particles in a spheroidized steel material was presented
by Strnadel et al. [52]. Relatively larger yp values were required to describe the measurements,