ground state. Therefore, by the replacement of the extra-framework O*~ ions with electrons, the
CCB is partially occupied by electrons having an s-like nature in the cage. When a low electron
concentration (Ne) is doped into the crystal, the s-electrons are localized in specific cages forming
an F*-like centre with a localized electron. In this case, electrical conduction occurs through a
thermal activation of the electron from the isolated level of an F*-like centre to the CCB. With
an increase in Ne, the split level merges into the CCB to lead to switching of the conduction
mechanism from hopping to band conduction, i.e. the s-electrons spread out over the cages [18].
Thus, the metallic C12A7:e~ with itinerant s-electrons may be regarded as an s-band metal as a
first approximation, with the property that the highest energy electron is in an s-orbital, like for
s-block alkali and alkaline earth metals.

It should be noted, however, that the metallic C12A7:e~ undergoes the superconducting
transition (SCT) at approximately 0.2 K at ambient pressure. This fact is apparently incompatible
with a well-known fact that an s-band metal of alkali and alkaline earth metals does not exhibit
SCT at ambient pressure but some of them become superconducting [15,20-23] through the
pressure-induced change with the exception of lithium which has a very low T, (0.4mK) at
ambient pressure [24]. This fact implies the existence of an unrevealed mechanism to explain
the emergence of superconductivity in metallic C12A7:e~. In this paper, we report how the
sub-nanometer-sized cage network structure of C12A7:e~ is responsible for the emergence
of superconductivity, based on comparison with the pressure-induced superconductivity of
conventional s-band alkali metals. An insight into superconductors is addressed with a close
correspondence in crystal and electronic structures between superconductors of C12A7:e~ and
high-pressure phases of s-band alkali metals. Furthermore, a high-pressure experiment on the
superconductivity of C12A7:e~ verifies a similarity to superconducting high-pressure phases of
s-band alkali metals.