
binary compounds of Au(I) are still elusive, including prototypical AuF [4,5], since they exhibit a
strong tendency to disproportionate to Au(0) and Au(III) compounds. Similarly, CuF has not been [3
prepared in the condensed phase, and its synthesis still represents a challenge in contemporary :B
synthetic chemistry [6,7]. : ron
The second oxidation state of silver is thus uncommon as it implies the destruction of the quasi- is
closed shell d!° electronic configuration of the Ag(I) cation (this feature is obviously expected Dw
for the ‘normal’ Group 11 element). With some effort, introducing one hole to the d shell of Ag :
may be realized; yet the resulting highly electron-deficient Ag(II) cation claims its electron back :3
both in the gas phase [8] and when present in chemical compounds [9,10]. In other words, all :3
species containing Ag(II) are very strong oxidizers. This feature is seen in the second ionization :
potential of silver being the largest of the three congeners (21.45 Ag > 20.52 Au > 20.29 eV Cu); in
fact, it is larger even than those of non-metallic P, Se or Xe, and very close to that of bromine
(21.80 eV), a halogen! Concomitantly, Ag(II) is found mostly in fluoride ligand environments
[11], and only in a handful of known compounds does its first coordination sphere contain O,
N, C or S (see [12] and references therein). Ag(II) is incompatible with many common inorganic
and organic anionic ligands such as iodides, bromides, chlorides, sulfides, cyanides, carbonates,
amides, imides, phosphates, carboxylates, alcoholates, etc., and also with many neutral ones. Even
covalently bound Cl atoms are targets of Ag(II)’s attack; for example, AgF, fiercely oxidizes SiCly
at room temperature while breaking the Si—Cl bonds (figure 2) [10]. The C—Cl bonds also undergo
rupture [9].
When Ag(II) cations are found in superacidic environments, and in the presence of weakly
coordinating anions, they exhibit superb oxidizing properties. This is exemplified by AgFt
cations solvated by anhydrous HF acidified with Lewis acids; these species are capable of
oxidizing, inter alia, xenon and O while yielding Xe(II) and oF cations, respectively [13]. Since