metallic and non-metallic properties. Over a century ago, Mendeleeff noted ‘Many elements,
although not all of them, have the peculiar lustre, opacity, malleability and the high thermal
and electrical conductivities peculiar to the metals .... Those which do not possess the physical
properties of metals are called non-metals’ [2]. Perhaps, the most outstanding physical property
of a metal is its superb ability to transmit electricity. Metals are thus magnificent conductors of
electricity and ultimately this is what distinguishes them from non-metals; the broadest, modern
definition of metals and the metallic state is therefore of a substance transmitting electricity by
electron transfer [3].

Even armed with room-temperature electrical conductivity data (as shown in figure 1), one
can fairly easily identify elements of the periodic table for which the designation ‘metal’ or ‘non-
metal’ is clearly appropriate. The difference in electrical conductivities between a metallic element
and a non-metallic element (under ambient conditions) is itself a striking fact; between the most
conductive elements (copper and silver) and the most resistive (sulfur, for example) it amounts to
23 orders of magnitude [5]. This range of over 10+? in electrical conductivity (or rather its inverse,
resistivity, the quantity customarily used in the application of Ohm’s law) has been cited as one
of the most widely ranging of all physical properties [5,6]. Furthermore—and remarkably—this
range in the elements’ electrical property is even larger at low temperatures; the temperature
dependence of the electrical resistivity of non-metals is in every way in direct contrast to that of
metals [7]. Then, surely, only the most rigid purist would seriously question the ‘easy’ designation
of mercury as a metal or sulfur, say, as a non-metal in the periodic table.

However, the very basis of such a conventional classification over time is undoubtedly
influenced by our experience of the nature of the chemical elements existing under ambient
conditions (generally room temperature, room pressure) on our planet. It has, however, been surmised