he calls Gaia [26,27]. In my own view, the development of science involves small incremental [sz
changes, not Kuhnian leaps and bounds. It involves countless almost random mutations in the [3
thinking of many individuals followed by the survival of only the ‘fittest’ of these mutations. .
Science is not progressing towards some objective truth lying ‘out there’ but is rather being
propelled from within or ‘pushed from behind’ as Kuhn has correctly proposed in this instance.
There are no right and wrong theories in science but just steps towards a collective knowledge.
In the book that I am writing on this subject, I give numerous examples of intermediate figures
in the history of science whose work may have been pivotal even if it may have been regarded as
‘wrong’ in retrospect.

My favourite example is the case of the theoretical physicist and mathematician William
Nicholson, who was the first to propose the quantization of angular momentum in atomic
physics [28]. Although this fact is reasonably well known, at least to historians of physics, what
is not so well known is Nicholson’s accompanying theory based on a completely ‘wrong’ set of
assumptions about proto-atoms that exist in space and give rise to our terrestrial elements. By
means of this theory, Nicholson succeeded in accommodating numerous lines in the spectrum of
several stellar nebulae and also that of the solar corona. In addition, he was able to successfully
predict the existence of some prominent new lines in the spectrum of these astronomical bodies
and phenomena. How can such incorrect theories be so successful? On the conventional view
of science they cannot. On a view that science progresses as a collective view with a plethora of
twists and turns and gradual evolutionary developments, one is not so hard pressed to explain
away the success that Nicholson’s theory seemed to enjoy.

On this view, priority disputes are a mere distraction or a charade played out by scientists
seeking their moment of glory. All that really matters is that scientific knowledge as a whole