Of course, the method can also be applied using synchrotron X-rays, but the increased
penetration into the surface can complicate the depth analysis using a reflection geometry [33].
This approach can, however, easily be adapted to exploit the penetration of hard X-rays, by
using a transmission arrangement (using a similar arrangement to that used for stress mapping
in figure 3a), so that the different depths beneath the fracture surface (crack plane) can be
probed non-destructively. Consequently, this technique need not be confined only to post-mortem
fractography analysis but could be applied in situ during fatigue crack growth.

Data from the experiments looking at overloads during fatigue crack growth in bainitic steel
CT samples described by Lopez-Crespo et al. [34] have been reanalysed and plotted. Figure 7a
shows the variation of peak FWHM (top) alongside the elastic strain in the crack-opening
direction (bottom) for a fatigue crack held under load at Kmax. It is clear that the peak FWHM
variation is heavily influenced by the crack-tip strain field. The fact that the broadening is
observed to vary significantly with loading condition and to follow the crack tip suggests that this
broadening is not primarily owing to the dislocations associated with the crack-tip plastic zone
(so-called type III microstresses). This broadening arises from the steep gradients in residual stress
sampled across the 60 um beam dimension. This is evidenced by the fact that the peak broadening
is a maximum not at the position of maximum elastic (and plastic) strain (figure 7a (bottom)) but
occurs just behind this where the gradient in strain is at its steepest. The diffraction peak width in
the crack wake should be directly comparable to the conventional X-ray fractographic analysis.
Here, the line profile is slightly broader than the far-field level extending to a depth (dashed line)
of around approximately 0.5 mm from the crack faces (figure 7a (top)) which is probably indicative
of the depth of the plastic zone.

By analogy with the laboratory X-ray method of figure 6, the variation in residual stress in the