experiment. In all three experiments, backfilling of the scour hole through sediment deposition
then commenced.

With respect to figure 11, it is clear that the final burial depth differs significantly across the
experiments. The most flexible pipeline drops fastest into the scour hole, but only reaches a depth
of 0.58D. In contrast the stiff pipeline drops later and over a longer period of time, leading to a
final depth of 1.28D. Consequently, for the experiments considered herein, the potential changes
to stability as a result of sagging are experienced faster for the flexible pipeline, but the extent
of lowering and the potential for greater long-term stability are larger for the stiffer pipeline
provided it does not become unstable during the lowering process.

The reason for the difference in final lowered depth across the three experiments is due
to the fact that the vertical position of the pipeline has an effect on scour locally beneath the
pipeline. This interaction is clear in figure 12 which presents the scour profile around the pipeline
as it moves vertically into the scour hole; as the pipeline drops (but has not yet touched the
bottom of the hole), the scour hole increases in depth and the side slopes become steeper and
more symmetric. This increase in scour hole depth does, however, take a finite time to occur.
Consequently, the stiffer pipeline, which drops more slowly into the hole and allows sufficient
time for the additional scour to develop, can lower to a greater depth.

In the sinking experiments (discussed in ยง4), load control of the pipeline allowed stability
of the pipeline to be observed directly, since translations of the pipeline were permitted during
testing. By contrast, for the sagging experiments, changes to stability can be partially interpreted
through the influence of sagging on the hydrodynamic forces experienced by the pipeline. To
explore this influence, figure 13 presents the lift and drag coefficients for experiments PRS-10 and