such a programme of comparing a large set of precise data with SM predictions was carried out
throughout the decade before the start of LHC operations. In addition to the Z boson observables
obtained at LEP1, this approach strongly profited from precise determinations of the W boson
mass at LEP2 and the Tevatron, and the ever increasing precision on the top quark mass measured
by CDF and D@. As an example, figure 6a shows the result of a fit to the complete set of
observables, with only the unknown Higgs mass parameter left as the floating variable in the
fit [32]. The blue band with the central black line is a measure of the overall fit quality, with a
minimum (best fit) obtained for a Higgs mass of 129775 GeV. At the same time, this fit can be
used to determine an upper limit (at the 95% confidence level) on the Higgs mass of 285 GeV.
Taking the results as summarized by the PDG (pdg.lbl.gov), in figure 6b the best-fit result and
the upper limit on the Higgs mass are displayed as they developed over the years. Very clearly,
these analyses predicted the existence of a Higgs boson with mass not much larger than the
direct lower limit obtained at LEP, assuming the validity of the SM. The fact that the recently
discovered Higgs boson turned out to have a mass consistent with these indirect constraints
again represents a triumph for the SM as a field theory, which correctly describes our available
measurements of elementary particle properties. It should be mentioned that a plethora of similar
indirect constraints and predictions was produced over the years, by typically extending the
overall theoretical context beyond the SM; for example, carrying out such a programme of fitting
in the context of a supersymmetric extension of the SM. An impressive compilation of more than
100 indirect Higgs mass predictions can be found in [33].

7. Summary

I have made an attempt to give a brief historical overview of the experimental efforts to search
for the Higgs boson, prior to the finally successful experiments at the LHC. I have indicated how