example, is not a mature technology, at least in the aspects related to moving to a low-carbon
economy, realizing a more efficient use of resources and energy, and developing novel processes
for the use of renewables [87,88]. The market value and scientific maturity of electrochemical
technologies is definitively lower than that of catalytic reduction routes and not slightly superior,
as indicated in figure 7a. This figure is reproduced from a market study prepared by Frost &
Sullivan [81], which is a business consulting firm offering market analyses, research, etc. The
firm’s team consists of industry experts, consultants, market analysts and research executives.
The study is thus indicative of the perception of decision-makers on the economic potential of
COz utilization routes. Figure 7a and the cited report [81] indicate positive perspectives, but the
need to strengthen research. However, as commented above, there is still a lack of clarity on
research bottlenecks and effective impact. It is thus necessary from the scientific perspective to
increase effort not only to develop new scientific routes but also to effectively assess the issues
in moving from idea to innovation. In fact, only when enough critical mass of research effort
is dedicated to the topic of CO2 utilization will it be possible to translate to fact the technology
roadmap tentatively identified in figure 5. A combination of public and private funds is necessary
to reach this goal. From this perspective, it is important to mention that the cited SPIRE initiative
[85] is a public-private partnership, which has seen CO) utilization as one of the pillars to move
to a sustainable, but competitive, future for the chemical industry.

(c) An analysis of emerging patent areas in relation to the technology roadmap

In order to complete the analysis of the technology roadmap in CO) utilization technologies,
it is useful to analyse briefly the emerging patent literature trends, limited to the last 5 years
(2008-2013) and patents in English. The search was made with SciFinder as the main search
mechanism, using different keywords, based on the combination of CO) and a second word from