might obstruct mitigation in ways that lead to a worse outcome than would result without further :s
climate engineering research. The notion of a ‘worse outcome’ can be interpreted in various ways: DN
on a simple utilitarian interpretation, a climate policy portfolio involving climate engineering is
worse than one that does not if and only if the former yields lower expected aggregate social
welfare than the latter. On a fairness-adjusted utilitarian interpretation, the former portfolio is
worse than the latter just in case it yields lower expected aggregate social welfare after adjusting
for the fairness of its distribution. On a non-consequentialist interpretation, the former portfolio
is worse than the latter if it runs too high a risk of forcing society to deploy climate engineering
in morally objectionable ways. None of these interpretations imply that reducing mitigation
necessarily yields a worse outcome; if climate engineering proves sufficiently cost-effective and
is used wisely, it might justify some reduction in mitigation.

The fact that climate engineering research might justify some reductions in mitigation makes
it much harder to know whether the argument from mitigation obstruction provides a morally
compelling reason not to pursue climate engineering research. Various commentators have
described plausible mechanisms by which climate engineering research might induce some
reductions in mitigations. But it is very difficult to know whether those reductions would be
so large or so poorly planned that they would lead to a worse outcome than would result
without climate engineering research. While that uncertainty does not currently justify a
moratorium on climate engineering research, it does provide a strong reason for climate
engineering researchers to take precautions against objectionable mitigation obstruction. These
precautions involve structuring research, communicating results, and engaging the public and
policy-makers in ways that reduce the chance of irrational climate policy portfolios.

Acknowledgements. Thanks to Christopher Preston, Toby Svoboda and two reviewers for helpful comments on