with multiscale problems across different applications in fluid and soft matter systems. This was 2 |
achieved by bringing together experts from several diverse communities.

As discussed in the contribution by Hoekstra et al. [1] (which opens this issue), one of the 3
first questions that arise is what exactly constitutes the multiscale modelling that is inherent in : a
multiscale systems and the issues that it involves. For example, it can be observed that multiscale ig
problems do not typically have a closed solution (except for some idealized situations when a : s
single-scale model at the finest level, e.g. a solution of the time-dependent Schrédinger equation 1B

in quantum mechanics, can be used as a first-principles direct solution method). To simulate
a large enough system with multiple scales at the level of detail required, one has to combine
models at various scale resolutions and invariably deal with different physics. Multiscale systems
can be characterized by the fact that there is a form of approximation or coarse graining involved
in the multiscale modelling, corresponding to an error below some threshold scale of interest. The
specific terminology used for coarse graining and scale bridging in multiscale systems varies in : =
different subject areas. For instance, terms such as projection, upscaling, model reduction and physical :3
analogy could be used to describe the procedure of reducing the full complexity of the multiscale
problem to an insightful, but tractable, representation. Coarse graining is implemented in order Dk
to reproduce interesting quantities at longer length and time scales. This, in turn, extends the :
modelling to a wider scale range at an affordable computational cost. On the other hand, it is not [4
possible to coarse grain everything, as it incurs a loss of information at each step. Coarse graining aw
also involves the exchange of information between the fine scale and the coarse scale. In some aes)
cases, this can be approximated as a one-way coupling between the scales, but, in others, a fully 1S
two-way coupling framework is required. .
Despite the differences in the application methods, there is a good deal of similarity found