the source masses to about 11 kg, the maximum that one of us (T.J.Q.) considered reasonable
to manipulate by hand. The second important decision was to make both source and test
masses in the form of right circular cylinders from Cu-0.7% Te free-machining alloy susceptible
to manufacture in the BIPM workshop and resulting in small magnetic contamination from
machining (see ยง10). Both test and source masses were made with their heights equal to their
diameters, 55 and 118 mm, respectively, in order to produce radial gravitational fields that were
as large as possible. At the separation between the source and test masses (about 107 mm), the
magnitude of the gravitational field due to the source masses corresponded to about 90% of that
due to a sphere of the same mass. For the Mk II apparatus, new test masses were made, and the
source masses were cut down to 115mm in height. Calculations of their individual gravitational
fields assuming they were spherical differ by about 10% from a calculation treating them as
cylinders. Although it was not necessary to make the four source masses and the four test masses
of exactly the same size, in fact they were quite close in dimension and in mass. The masses in the
Mk II were about 1.2 and 11.2kg, respectively, for each of the test and source masses, similar to
MkI.

A critical parameter in all measurements of G is the uniformity of density of the attracting
masses. Cu-0.7 Te is an alloy that can be cast in molten form into billets which are then swaged
to obtain a material free of voids. However, as we discovered, this hot working of the material
leads to stresses and associated small density gradients. For both source and test masses, we
measured the density inhomogeneities by hydrostatic weighing of samples cut from the original
billet and, for the source masses, by determining their centres of gravity with respect to their
geometrical axis from measurements of their dynamic-equilibrium position and period of free
oscillation when supported on an air bearing. We found that the density varied linearly across
the diameter of the source masses. The density at the centre differed from that at the perimeter