in estimates of the trend as well as the fact that global maps of trends need to be viewed with : =
these spatially varying uncertainties in mind. :3
While the variability in the time series places certain limits on our ability to make statements
about the long-term trends, systematic factors also contribute to our uncertainty in the estimates eal
of sea-level change. These systematic factors particularly highlight the need for simultaneous :
observations by other systems, as well as the need for a stable realization of the reference system [4
for the measurements. aw
One important aspect of the altimetry is the need to correct for a variety of factors, including aes)
sea-state bias and wet tropospheric delay. These corrections vary between each satellite mission, aes)
must be independently evaluated and led to the requirement that the altimetry missions must ,
overlap [68]. An important final check that errors in the corrections do not introduce errors into
the altimetric long-term trend is to compare the altimeter time series with those from a selection of
tide gauges distributed throughout the world [69]. In fact, the frequently reported uncertainty of
0.4mm per year on the global trend is primarily associated with this check on altimeter drift [70].
This check is not perfect, in that not all of the tide gauges have GNSS measurements of vertical
land (crustal) motion. This motion could introduce a systematic error into the analysis, though a
recent study suggested that this globally averaged error should be less than 0.6 mm per year [71],
which is also an independently estimated altimetric trend error [72]. However, the tide gauge
comparison (which remains independent of altimeter processing streams) remains a crucial check
that significantly larger erroneous trends are not present in the altimeter data. These figures are
for global mean sea-level trend, which benefits from the fact that many regional sources of error,
including orbit error, tend to cancel significantly in the global ocean average. Regional trend errors
may be significantly larger at several millimetres per year [73].
The reference system is also vital to understanding sea-level change. One can think of a
measurement of relative sea-level change, as measured at the coast by tide gauges, as the change