sea-state bias and wet tropospheric delay. These corrections vary between each satellite mission, aes)
must be independently evaluated and led to the requirement that the altimetry missions must ,
overlap [68]. An important final check that errors in the corrections do not introduce errors into
the altimetric long-term trend is to compare the altimeter time series with those from a selection of
tide gauges distributed throughout the world [69]. In fact, the frequently reported uncertainty of
0.4mm per year on the global trend is primarily associated with this check on altimeter drift [70].
This check is not perfect, in that not all of the tide gauges have GNSS measurements of vertical
land (crustal) motion. This motion could introduce a systematic error into the analysis, though a
recent study suggested that this globally averaged error should be less than 0.6 mm per year [71],
which is also an independently estimated altimetric trend error [72]. However, the tide gauge
comparison (which remains independent of altimeter processing streams) remains a crucial check
that significantly larger erroneous trends are not present in the altimeter data. These figures are
for global mean sea-level trend, which benefits from the fact that many regional sources of error,
including orbit error, tend to cancel significantly in the global ocean average. Regional trend errors
may be significantly larger at several millimetres per year [73].
The reference system is also vital to understanding sea-level change. One can think of a
measurement of relative sea-level change, as measured at the coast by tide gauges, as the change
in thickness of the ocean at a given location (figure 1). This logical extension of the tide gauge
measurement allows us to visualize that relative sea level is a physical measurement. No matter
in which reference frame we observe this thickness change, it must be the same. The same is
not true for altimetry, which is referenced to the centre of mass of the whole Earth system (CM)
on long time scales. On these longer time scales, the origin of the ITRF is designed to be the
CM. The stability of this realization can be assessed by comparison with tide gauge or absolute
gravity (AG) data (described more below), geophysical models (GIA or plate motion models), or
geophysical inversions. A recent review has found that the ITRF is stable along each axis to better