
While significant progress has been made w.r.t. fundamentals and applications in the field of : S
synthetic biology, it has failed to scale significantly in complexity over more than a decade [9,10]. :2

One important reason for this failure has been its overemphasis on digital paradigms of thought:
because digital design is relatively straightforward and scalable, and because molecules and
atoms are discrete, it is logical to assume that engineering biology as we engineer switches
and logic gates today will bear fruit. The sheer force and powerful success of digital computation
over the past few decades has been impressive. Nevertheless, we must not forget that digital
computation has not offered an effective paradigm for computing efficiently and precisely with
noisy and unreliable devices; that multi-logic-gate computations can impose significant metabolic
or toxicity burdens on cells owing to their need to use a lot of parts and power; that the
fact that there are five to six orders of magnitude fewer genes per cell than digital transistors
per chip means that using genes to only perform logic is likely not an efficient way to attain
high complexity; that a library of ‘digital parts’ with good on-off ratios, low standby power
consumption and low crosstalk does not exist in biology; that the computing basis functions
in cells are not really logic functions and abstracting them as such compromises computational
efficiency; and that logic basis functions are not the only universal computation primitives.

Nature is not purely digital. While molecules are discrete and digital, all molecular interactions
that lead to computation, e.g. association, transformation and dissociation chemical reactions,
have a probabilistic analog nature to them. Depending on one’s point of view, computation in a
cell is owing to lots of probabilistic digital events or owing to continuous analog computation
with noise. Both views are equivalent. Indeed, the noise in analog systems is related to
the Poisson rate of the underlying probabilistic digital events; the shot noise of thermally