react with the fuel prior to the combustion zone. Gao et al. [32] showed that at higher pressures
or at longer residence times, this is no longer the case, but at reduced pressures and the flow
residence times in the current experiments, the reaction between the two is negligible. In addition,
other works have noted that reactions between O3 and saturated hydrocarbons such as CHy are
quite slow at room temperature, and therefore the influence of O3 on such fuels can be ignored
[20]. Although the addition of reactions in the 03 sub-mechanism does not consider synergistic
effects, or how the addition of these reactions affects the rates of reactions present in the original
mechanism, good agreement has been found between experimental results and the simulations
[19,20,22].

From the one-dimensional simulations, flame speed enhancement with 11000 ppm of O3
was found to be over 11%, while the experimental enhancement was approximately 7%. This
difference is partly due to the fact that the one-dimensional simulations fail to capture any
stretch effects that would be present in these flames as the one-dimensional calculations are at
zero stretch (figure 4). So while the kinetic processes would be captured, the comparison to the
stretched flames in the experiments may not be suitable. Therefore, two-dimensional simulations
were performed using the unsteady ignition and combustion with reactions (UNICORN) model
[28,33-36]. UNICORN only requires the inflow conditions to determine the flame lift-off height
and axial stretch rate.

The flame speed results for both the two-dimensional simulations and experiments are also
shown in figure 4. There was excellent agreement between the measurements and simulations
without the presence of O3, further reinforcing the validity of the kinetic mechanism being used
for these flames. With 11000 ppm Os, flame speeds derived from the simulations were greater
than the measured values, but the trend of increased flame speed with stretch was captured.