available data. After a model is retrieved, additional data are collected and each trace, i.e. each
sequence of related activities in data, is replayed on the model. If differences are detected when
replaying the event log on the model, then a fitness parameter is determined in order to compare
it with a specified threshold. When a single trace in the event log has too many differences when
replayed on the model and thus a low fitness parameter is extracted, then the system is classified
as misbehaving.

In addition to formal models needed to recognize threats, anomaly detection also requires
specific architectures to collect and vehiculate relevant data. In the field of IoT, a layered approach
can be used to decompose functional aspects. In particular, a layer known as middleware can be
used as an application enablement platform, i.e. to integrate external applications and ensure
requirements such as interoperability, persistence and analytics, context awareness, resource and
event handling, etc. In fact, loT devices are normally unable to perform resource-intensive tasks.
To that end, some researchers have introduced the concept of the cloud of things, extending
the IoT with cloud computing services [30]. As already mentioned in the previous section and
highlighted in reference [30], using cloud services to enhance CPS resilience via DT requires
taking into account issues related to bandwidth, connection unavailability, latency, data validity,
security, etc. The authors of [30] propose a set of requirements that a service-oriented middleware
must satisfy to provide self-management mechanisms such as self-configuration, self-healing and
self-optimization of service providers, which also support IoT anomaly detection. Additional
edge-fog-cloud computing architectural paradigms for anomaly detection can be found in [31,32],
where a detailed explanation of specific functionalities of each platform and a description of the
specifications that each device should have to be employed in a certain layer are explored and
properly motivated.
