of new powerful software systems promising organizational and economic benefit will also
take time as the decision for the related investment may be postponed and these tools need to
be applicable in a brownfield application case. In short, this change is ongoing, but it is also
struggling with the implications of the worldwide COVID-19 crisis, which puts many of the
supply chains under pressure. This will require a new orientation, also for the innovations efforts
that are discussed throughout this work.

This paper has described the technical beauty of the related 14.0 installations that opens
new ways for including humans in industrial production and development of future-looking
sustainable approaches. 14.0 platform has recognized this via the creation of its own charter to
the subject [24]. However, today most efforts investigating sustainability focus on organizational
sustainability but not overall societal sustainability [49]. The aspect of social sustainability needs
to be emphasized, reinforcing the fact that the world is witnessing some early efforts in this
direction.

Via the critical discussion on RAMI 4.0, the AAS and its implications, it is evident that the
role of the human can effectively be linked to its capabilities and the functions s/he performs
in the digitalized system. This can be coined as an advantage for the respective enterprise. But
this paper also showed that the ‘human asset’ could be easily reduced to a book value. Ongoing
operations in large companies which lay off part of their workforce make it plain how difficult it
is for some management to consciously recognize the advantage of the human for their operation.
The necessity of such decisions is argued on an economic basis, which, however, focuses on
narrow aspects and short-term profit optimization, and overlooks the larger picture, historical
experience from past industrial revolutions, and social sustainability. In all countries, there exist
examples that prove the economic advantage of supporting the workforce sufficiently, probably