daytime and night-time in the a(q, n) coefficients of the heart rate [12]. Therefore, the acp(1)
index proposed in the present work could clarify whether the previously observed differences
regard not only the value of the coefficients but also the degree of multifractality. The intra-arterial
blood pressure recordings belong to a historic database collected at the University Hospital of
Milan (Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico), Italy between the 1980s and the 1990s when intermittent
non-invasive arm devices were not still in use. Recordings were performed for the diagnosis
of hypertension in 14 subjects in which the suspected hypertensive state was then excluded.
Each pulse wave was identified on the blood pressure signal sampled at 170 Hz, artefacts and
premature beats were removed, and the series of inter-beat intervals (IBI) was derived beat
by beat. Details on the participants and signal acquisition and preelaboration are provided in
[12]. In each IBI series, we selected two segments of N > 14000 beats, in the afternoon (‘Day’
period) and after 23.00 (‘Night’ period), and calculated F,(n) as in equation (2.3) for 6 <n < N/4
beats, —-5 <q< +5, with detrending polynomials of order 1 and 2. In fact, for the heart rate
series, the second-order polynomials overfit blocks shorter than 12 beats, but at the same
time, they appear to remove long-term trends more efficiently than the first-order polynomials;
therefore, we estimated the multifractal-multiscale coefficients, ag(q, n), combining the estimates
for detrending orders 1 and 2 by the weighted average proposed in [13]. Then, as originally
introduced in [20], we mapped the scale units from the number of beats n to the second with
the transformation

t=n xX MBL (2.22)

where j1;p is the mean IBI of the series, in seconds. In this way, we obtained the coefficients a(q,
t), a function of the temporal scale t in seconds, over the range 8 < t < 2048s. This allowed us
to compare the same time scales even if the ‘Day’ and ‘Night’ periods have different heart rate