Interestingly, our index allowed us to reject the hypothesis of heart rate monofractality during :s
the night but not during the day when the recordings had a much lower degree of multifractality. 7

We can only speculate on the origin of this day-night difference and an explanation could
be the effects of random activities during the daytime that might have masked the intrinsic
multifractality of the heart rate. However, the higher multifractality we found at night may be
a marker of nonlinear dynamics and we cannot help but note that our result is coherent with
the higher degree of heart rate nonlinearity during the night than the day reported by others
fitting nonlinear Volterra-Wiener models to the heart rate recordings [23]. Our results are also
coherent with a multifractal but monoscale analysis performed with a different approach, i.e. the
wavelet transform modulus maxima applied on the range of scales corresponding to the very low
frequency oscillations, that reported a larger width of the singularity spectrum during the night in
young participants [24]. The fact that different techniques provide similar conclusions indirectly
supports the validity and robustness of our method. Moreover, by separating the contribution of
positive and negative components and by identifying the scales where w¢.(t) or a@p(t) reveals
the presence of multifractality, our method appears a versatile and promising tool for objectively
quantifying aspects of the multiscale multifractality relevant in physiological studies and clinical
applications.

Ethics. Recordings of heart rate time series belong to a historic database and were carried out between
the 1980s and 1990s after having obtained informed consent from the participants in accordance with the
1975 Declaration of Helsinki and following the recommendations of the ethical committee of the Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico (Milan, Italy).

Data accessibility. The datasets supporting this article have been uploaded on the Zenodo public repository (doi: