such as sinus tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter or any ventricular rhythms. When the
four phases of the heart can be extracted, the ANN analyses their MFCC independently, and
while its four ‘branches’ are merged only at the very last layer. This multi-instance learning
architecture represents a significant step towards an interpretable-by-design method because
it would be possible to reconstruct (out of every patient’s recording) which phases mostly
contributed to the final evaluation. This could possibly lead to a more mechanistic understanding
of the physiological factors which determine heart disease in general. Interpretable-by-design
neural networks are extremely desirable and not commonly found in modern neural networks-
based methods, which often are based on black-box models to which, in some cases, post hoc
general interpretation methods are applied. This shortcoming represents one of the major barriers
to the adoption of CAD in several branches of medicine. Although the training dataset employed
in this study was agnostic with respect to the patients’ pathologies, it is reasonable to assume that,
given the fact that different FHSs carry different information and each heart pathology can be :
diagnosed by different abnormalities carried by different FHSs, an ANN multi-branch approach :B
might be particularly suited to classify not only normal from abnormal cases, but also different 1p
pathologies within the ‘abnormal’ class. :8

5. Conclusion 28

In summary, we designed an ad hoc architecture for classifying phonocardiograms in absence :8
of any clinical information—a task which may be particularly useful in large or sub-optimally
equipped centres or situations. Our classification strategy was based on DHMM-based automatic
heart phase segmentation, the MFCC representation and a multi-branch multiple instance ANN
composed of four branches of convolutional and a fully connected ANN layers. This architecture
allows to classify each recording using at least one segment for each of the four segment types