importance of forced responses and internal variability, which depends in turn on the variable of 6
interest; the spatial scale; the time scale; and the time horizon. Internal variability is increasingly : =
important at smaller space and time scales and for shorter time horizons. It is also more important : 5
for mean precipitation than for SAT. In the absence of any forced climate signals (i.e. pure internal : 5
variability), GMST explains only a small fraction of the variance in local climate (typically less : =
than 20% for decadal mean SAT). In the case of a pure forced signal, if the response is linear then rR
GMST necessarily explains 100% of the variance in local climate. However, nonlinear responses : 3
to greenhouse gas forcing are known to exist, and are expected to be important in specific regions [3
such as the North Atlantic Subpolar Gyre. Furthermore, competition between multiple forcings :8
(e.g. greenhouse gases and anthropogenic aerosol) complicate the relationship between changes : s
in GMST and changes in local climate. An important consequence is that large forced changes in 1&

regional climates may occur in the absence of any (net) forced change in GMST, a fact which is
crucial to the assessment of geo-engineering proposals.

In reality, the signal of forced climate change on local scales is progressively emerging from
the background of natural variability. Measuring rates of change relative to this background
variability (rather than solely in absolute terms) is important for the assessment impacts
and changing risks. Projections of emergence are limited by significant uncertainties in both
the climate change signal on local scales (response uncertainty) and uncertainties in the
characteristics of internal variability. Large differences in the latter characteristics have been found
in comparisons between different climate models. For some applications, uncertainties in internal
variability may be as important as the uncertainties in climate feedbacks.

In an analysis of observational records, it has been shown that GMST explains 60%, or more,