
Phthalocyanine iron-based electrodes show catalytic activity greater than that of Pt electrodes
[4,5]. In addition, Fe- and N-doped carbon materials are attracting attention because of their
high activity and durability and low cost and thus have significant potential for use as ORR
catalysts instead of Pt [6-8]. In general, industrially produced organic substances and carbon
materials derived from petroleum pitch are used for synthesizing these electrode materials. On
the other hand, woody biomass resources are potentially inexpensive carbon raw materials owing
to their abundance and sustainability. According to previous reports [9-11], when the wood is
impregnated with Fe ions and carbonized through a two-step process (heating at 500°C for 2h
in an N2 atmosphere followed by heating at 850-900°C for 2h in an N2 atmosphere), graphitic
carbon is formed. It is known that the Fe surface functions as a catalyst and forms a graphitic
shell structure with a 002 surface orientation. This suggests that electrically conductive carbon
materials can be produced directly from woody biomass. In fact, this type of graphitic carbon has
been used as an anode material for Li- and Na-ion batteries, and its storage capacity is similar
to that of artificial graphite [12]. In order to synthesize ORR catalysts from biomass with high
efficiency, it is necessary to ensure that the dopants Fe and N are present in a high concentration
and are well dispersed.

The hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) technique is the best method for synthesizing these
materials. HTC is used for carbonizing organic substances and biomass at low temperatures (less
than 300°C). In addition, it is an exothermic reaction and can be self-sustaining in terms of energy,
meaning that the carbonization process only requires a small amount of energy input. In recent
years, carbon materials fabricated by the HTC method have been employed as electrode materials
in energy devices [13]. Moreover, the hydrothermal conditions involved make it easy to dope the
biomass with heteroatoms [14]. However, in general, industrially produced organic substances