While single dissimilarity approaches have already been used to detect communities [31], it may : =
seem insufficient to capture the intrinsic features of a complex network. A single quantifier does : 5
not capture the structural complexity. In such a context, in this work we propose a novel strategy : 3s
that complements a quantifier’s weaknesses with the strengths of another. As figure 2 illustrates, : =
a particular measure D,(d1,d2) may perform better, depending on how well their constituent rR
quantifiers, d; and d2, adapt to the network’s specificity. Thus, choosing an optimal measure may : 3
depend on the topological and statistical heterogeneity of the network under analysis. Adaptively [3
coupling two different quantifiers may improve community detection while considering more :8
than one relevant network’s feature, e.g. local or global properties. The resulting network maximal : s
modularity can be evaluated as a function of the parameter ¢, thus tuning the weights in D, (41, d2) 1 oe

to the best structural result. Such a tuning is not an artefact, as the resulting classification shows.
In fact, it is possible to observe a good classification of the different communities of ZKCN.
Remarkably, for the case of C. elegans, the method precisely separates all the metabolic pathways
and intrapathway functions. Consequently, such a detailed function identification represents an
improvement with respect to the GO classification available at KEGG.

In our paper, we explored two archetypal systems used widely in the literature to test
methods for community detection in complex networks. In particular, we found that our method
is useful to detect communities in sparse networks such as the metabolic network discussed
above. In fact we found that weighting dissimilarities perform better than several of the methods
recently published [8-18]. An analysis of larger networks would offer further insights into the
dissimilarity’s performance; however, such an analysis is outside the scope of this work and is left
for a future publication. However, we analysed a number of different networks. We observed that
when a network with more diverse characteristics is analysed the method adapts better and the