(b) Vegetation and snow feedbacks for LGM and MH

At the scale of the NH, the land surface albedo feedback is of smaller magnitude than the SW
cloud feedback (figure 2c versus 2b). It reflects to first order the relative proportion of land
and ocean. This feedback is restricted to sea-ice and snow covered areas, and for models with
interactive vegetation to most continental regions (figure 3). The annual mean cycle of this
feedback shares similarities between the two climates between January and August, with a
tendency for a positive feedback in late boreal winter and spring and a negative one in boreal
summer (figure 2c), limited to June in the case of the MH. This comparison also highlights
that CCSM4 and MIROC-ESM have the strongest positive feedback from March to June in both
climates. This corresponds to the period where sea-ice and snow increase most [13]. In the
LGM, the period with negative feedback during summer reflects the reduction of sea-ice in
the Arctic Ocean (figure 2c(i)). This counterintuitive result can be explained by the fact that
the Arctic Ocean is actually much smaller at LGM compared with PI conditions, because of the
extension of land or ice-sheets in this area. Even though sea-ice generally extends further south
in the North Atlantic/Nordic Seas at the LGM, this does not compensate for the decrease from
70% to 42% of the area available for sea-ice formation north of 70° N. On the other hand, the
negative feedback in June in the MH simulations is directly linked to a slight delay in the melting
of sea-ice in response to the insolation forcing. At that time in the year the larger sea-ice and snow
cover over land counteracts the warming induced by the larger insolation forcing. In summer
the feedback becomes positive because of a larger sea-ice and snow melting (figure 2c(ii)). The
different phasing and magnitude between the different curves in figure 2c highlight the different
model responses and large uncertainties in high latitudes [44].

