increased during periods of lockdown according to mobility data made available by the Google
Mobility Reports [31]. Denmark, in fact, experienced less stringent travel restrictions compared to
the other European countries under study: ‘stay-at-home’ orders were never applied, and travel
between different cities and regions remained always allowed [14]. Despite the surge in visits to
parks and the increase of weekend-like mobility patterns during the first Danish lockdown, the
containment strategies were effective. This results suggest that the correlations between mobility
and social behaviour are non-trivial, implying that containment strategies aiming at reducing
mobility do not necessarily target social behaviour.

Owing to the way it is pre-processed, the data released by Facebook does not account for
within-city trips. Furthermore, the Facebook data does not allow to distinguish two different
situations: individuals staying home versus individuals travelling within their home city. For this
reason, the results obtained using the Facebook data may be partially explained by the fact that,
during ‘lockdown’ individuals spent more time at home, just as they would do during weekends.
In France, Italy and Spain the restrictions were in fact more stringent compared to Denmark,
especially during the first epidemic wave. With ‘stay-at-home’ orders in place, people were only
allowed to walk in the vicinity of their home location.

Our analysis shed light on how the identified travel components contribute to the structural
property of the network describing travel flows between pairs of cities. In particular, we studied
the effective distance [29], a network measure that quantifies the probability of travelling between
two cities and correlates with the time it takes for a disease to travel between them. In line
with previous findings [11], we found that, during periods of lockdown, the network describing
flows of travellers experienced dramatic structural changes. We observed that, during periods
of lockdown, there was larger heterogeneity in the effective distance between pairs of cities.