current generation of models does not perform better for this respect, and vegetation feedback is
still a matter of concern. Another difficulty is that this feedback has only a regional or local impact.
In addition to the surface albedo effect considered here, an estimate of the vegetation feedback
on the evapotranspiration and thus on the atmospheric water content would be necessary. To
go one step further one solution might be to estimate the realism of the effect of vegetation
on evapotranspiration through convective regime sorted analyses following [49], so as to avoid
to put too much emphasis on the geographical patterns that are not properly reproduced by
climate models.

The simple method proposed here to estimate SW forcings and feedbacks is shown to be very
efficient to highlight differences between periods and models. More complete analyses of the
feedback estimates at model grid points offer additional information on the differences between
models. As an example, the fact that the IPSL model produces different SW cloud feedback at the
global or the hemispheric scales is mainly because of the mid-latitude ocean cloud cover. In other
regions, the IPSL model results are more similar to those of the other models. Also, the results
highlight the higher sensitivity of the MIROC-ESM and CCSM4 over snow and ice-covered area.
This suggests that evaluation criteria need to be provided to assess if these simulations are correct
or represent out-of-range results that should be dismissed from the PMIP model ensemble to
produce the best estimate of the LGM or MH changes. Additional analyses should also consider
LW forcings and feedbacks. This was outside the scope of this synthesis because a full partial
radiative perturbation method using a radiative kernel would be required to do it. Also previous
results suggest that model spread is smaller for water vapour and lapse rate or LW cloud feedback
than it is for SW feedbacks [11]. Therefore, model improvement should focus on the reason for
different SW cloud feedbacks between models and on the regional representation of vegetation
and of its coupling with soil moisture and atmospheric boundary layer. Also comparing model