Figure 5. A schematic illustration of the Basu-Ramalho—Sterman picture in the case of Drell-Yan scattering. (a), A red anti-
quark approaches a stationary proton on the right at high speed. (It is presumably associated with its own hadron, not shown.)
P is the point of observation in the proton. The pale blue field represents the vector potential spreading out through space,
while the vertical orange band is the ‘pulse’ force associated with the incoming anti-quark. (b) The anti-quark annihilates with
the quark. It is only when the orange overlaps with both the red and faded-red partons that the two may exert forces on one
another. (Online version in colour.)

In quantum mechanics, a gauge field can have an influence on a particle even when it is
confined to a region where the actual force vanishes, as famously illustrated by the Aharonov—
Bohm effect [7]. Therefore, it is not as trivial as it might initially seem to prove that classical
expectations from the Basu-Ramalho-Sterman or similar pictures carry over to QCD for other
observables. As in the SIA, SIDIS and Drell-Yan cases discussed earlier, factorization for many
standard processes relies on the fact that the observables are very inclusive, with enough final
state averaging to give the necessary cancellations. If one constructs observables with greater
sensitivity to details, interesting effects can modify or even break classical expectations.

One place where that happens is when the effects of a small intrinsic transverse momentum
are studied. (We already encountered one example of this in the discussion of equation (2.2).)
For instance, we might ask how an intrinsic transverse momentum of a bound state quark in a
proton gets influenced if the proton is transversely polarized. This is called a Sivers effect [8].
It turns out that if the proton is regarded entirely in isolation, without reference to any process,
then an argument based on CP invariance shows that such a correlation must vanish [5]. While
factorization theorems nevertheless hold for processes like SIDIS and the Drell-Yan process where
such an effect might be observed, it turns out that the structure of the Wilson line operator in the
parton densities is crucial. A different structure arises if it is an outgoing struck quark that passes