there is still considerable uncertainty in the LPX-Bern estimates, the anomaly is consistent with
the inversion results. Lastly, we consider the effect of lakes using a process-based model, which
combines a Mechanistic-Stochastic Model [45] for regional C-N-P dynamics [40] with a CHy
module relying on the Canadian Small Lake Model (CSLM) for the lake physics [46]. With a 2°C
increase in April, the model predicted only a 3% increase in CH4 emissions for that month because
it takes time for heat to propagate from the surface to depth and because April is still early in the
season, i.e. before there is strong productivity and oxygen levels start to deplete. However, if a 2°C
anomaly is maintained over the summer, CH4 emissions increase by a total of 18%, suggesting
that there is potential for increased emissions from lakes with warmer summers.

It is noteworthy that although similar temperature anomalies occurred in other parts of
Western and Central Europe in spring, the emission anomaly was localized in the Netherlands.
This may be simply due to the fact that the total flux per unit area in the Netherlands is
much higher (4-5 times) compared to other parts of Western and Central Europe (electronic
supplementary material, figure S10) and, therefore, any anomaly may have been too small to be
detected by the inversions with the current observation network. In addition, the emissions from
mineral soils (according to the LPX-Bern estimates) and lakes (according to our prior estimate)
are significantly higher in the Netherlands compared to the rest of Western and Central Europe
(electronic supplementary material, figure S11).


In May to August, we found no significant CH4 anomaly for the Netherlands despite positive
temperature anomalies. This may be because during this period, there was a strongly negative
soil moisture anomaly, which may have led to enhanced microbial CH, oxidation in soils,
compensating any enhancement in CHy production. In landfills, it has been found that CHy