
mm? — 2x mq + (xi+x7)97 = X4740- (3.35) —

Clearly, this is the equation of an ellipse, whose lengths of the semiaxes and the angle of Ds
inclination are determined by the real and imaginary parts of the dynamic susceptibility. 3
The magnetization curves of an AFM particle in strong fields can be obtained only by : Pe
numerical integration of the complete set (3.8). The results of calculations for the field amplitude :8
qo = 1.5and frequency wt) = 10~> are shown in figure 7 for different values of the decompensation [3
parameter £; lines (1) correspond to high temperature (o = 1), lines (2)—to moderate (a = 10), :sS
lines (3) to low one (o = 20), the dashed line shows the hysteresis loops obtained within the energy :8
approach. :s
At high temperatures, the magnetization curves, as expected, have an equilibrium shape: they a)
are exactly described by formulae (2.12)-(2.14). Evidently, this is due to the fact that foro ~1
all relaxation times are of the order 19 (figure 5a), and, therefore, in the considered frequency
range wty <1 these relaxation times are much shorter than the period 27/w of the exciting field.
Notably, the spin-flop transition under intense thermal fluctuations is completely smeared.
A decrease of temperature leads to the so-called dynamic magnetic hysteresis: at o = 10 and
20, the magnetization curves turn into loops, provided the particle has a spontaneous magnetic
moment, see lines for 6 4 0. Obviously, in the frequency range under consideration, this effect is
associated exclusively with the interwell relaxation mode. The point is that all the other relaxation
times of the spectrum are of the order of 1, irrespective of temperature and field strength;
therefore, the corresponding modes do not play any significant role in the magnetic response at
wt <1. The behaviour of interwell relaxation time 11, as shown above, is qualitatively different.
The exponential growth of 11(0,q) with the increase of o leads to the fact that this time in a
certain range of values q becomes much greater than the period of the field. In this case, the