Further in the report, one finds out that it is recommended that coping systems to enable
restoration for AC power need to last for 8 hours minimum, to allow for power to be re-
established within a minimum 72h time window. Power was not restored in Unit 3 for 72h, and
it took almost 9 days to restore off-site power to the plant [12]. Again, one wonders whether an
additional margin of safety would have been advisable, given the recent experience, at least as a
recommendation.

The United States National Research Council of the National Academies produced a report [12]
on lessons from the Fukushima accident to improve US NPPs. The report analyses in depth the
chain of events and includes findings and recommendations about safety and the nuclear safety
culture. We note as a preamble, that not a single one of the twenty one members of the panel was
a tsunami expert, in the sense that it is usually understood, i.e. with a record of earlier research
and journal publications on tsunamis. This was probably because of the fact that the emphasis of
the US National Research Council panel was on mechanical issues and the nuclear safety culture.
The report is overall excellent with a meticulous discussion of the background of US and Japanese
NPPs and a detailed analysis of the timetable of the accident. A very useful recommendation is
that a high priority should be given to protecting DC batteries and power distribution systems.
There is an excellent discussion on the system for prediction of environmental emergency dose
information. There is almost no discussion of the methodology of the studies that led to the guess
of the maximum probable tsunami. There was no single person related to tsunami engineering,
geophysics or coastal engineering among those whom the panel interviewed in 10 meetings over
about 18 months. One and a half pages of the 366 page report is devoted to tsunami hazards, and
only for the east coast of the United States.

The report states that additional countermeasures to protect from a 10m tsunami as estimated