which lie on the same spacelike hypersurface F in inhomogeneous Mixmaster space-time, and
suppose that they are not in causal contact with each other. We consider two null cones with
vertices B,C that contain D,E respectively (i.e. there exist causal paths from D to B and from
E to C), and assume that their intersections with F have no points in common. Using the sync
mechanism suggested in this paper, D will then synchronize with B, and E with C. Now, consider
the bigger null cone with vertex the point A such that B,C lie on it (ie. both B,C are on A’s
past null cone). Since they are on A’s past, B,C can both synchronize with A, which means that
the original points D,E, although never in causal contact with each other, can acquire similar
properties because they become in sync with the common point A. This argument suggests that
sync may in fact lead to a new approach to the horizon problem.

Another possible implication of sync is related to the behaviour of entropy on approach to
the past singularity. This is connected to the fact that each time two spatial point trajectories in
inhomogeneous space-time synchronize with each other, the entropy of the system reduces as a
result of syne: information about the states of the spatial points before sync is lost after sync as they
now evolve in unison to one another, so the asymptotic rate of creation of information towards the
past singularity is thus reduced, cf. [60]. Therefore, any region evolving near the past singularity
and containing synchronized spatial points possibly has lower entropy than what it would have
had without sync. This mechanism for entropy reduction does not involve any ‘thermal’ effects
like those found in inflationary models. However, there are no estimates as to how efficient this
process of entropy reduction can be, or how large synchronized regions might become before
hitting on the past singularity. This may also be related to the issue of whether or not sync has
any connection to the issue of isotropization in the past, cf. [61].

One last possibility related to the sync mechanism discussed here is about its connection to