This feature was widely and controversially debated in political studies, but without coming
to a consensus on its meaning and origin. However, it matches well with the functioning of
natural social lasers. Here, if a social group approached the state of population inversion, then any
coherent flow of news of the energy matching with the energy level structure of this group can
generate ASE. There is no need in writing say the ‘Manifesto of the Communist Party’ (issued by
Marx in 1848); modern ASE happens without such figures as Martin Luther, Karl Marx, Vladimir
Lenin. In any event if the hypothesis that the modern information society can self-generate ASE
is correct, then in the future one can expect an increase in the frequency of ASEs throughout the
world—simply as one of the natural features of the modern information society.!!

Finally, when considering the possibility of the application of ASE to model social protests, we
make the following remark. Population inversion means that more than half of the population is
excited. In fact, the real actions emanating out of protests involve a minority of the population.
Here it is important to distinguish the emission of a coherent wave of s-photons and the

The first ‘natural’ laser in space was detected by scientists on board NASA’s Kuiper Airborne Observatory as
they trained the aircraft's infrared telescope on a young, very hot, luminous star in the constellation Cygnus, see
www.nasa.gov /home/hqnews/1995 /95-148.txt.

| At the same time, we understand that the connection of recent social processes with a ‘natural social laser’ can be an illusion.
If some powerful mechanisms can arise in a natural way, then very clever people will use and optimize them. We repeat that
the analysis and interpretation of these events in the social and political literature are very controversial [1-5]. There are
claims that the absence of political programmes and strong political leaders is an illusion; these programmes and leaders are
just hidden.
