
In more detail, we aim at giving a deeper understanding of the mitigation effects due to the
reduction of the social interactions among individuals in the dynamics of SARS-CoV-2. This is
done through a combination of a multiscale mathematical model which takes into account both
the statistical information on the distribution of social contacts in a society as well as a control
strategy whose target is to point the population towards a given benchmark number of contacts.
The underlying theoretical framework that we consider is the one coming from the kinetic theory
of collective social phenomena [17]. The diffusion of epidemics is here described as a result of the
interactions between a large number of individuals, each one having a different social propensity.
In this respect, as shown in Dimarco et al. [18] and Zanella et al. [19], the fundamental tools
of statistical physics are capable of providing a useful insight into epidemiological dynamics
linking classical compartmentalization approaches with a statistical understanding of the social
aspects. In fact, the essential multiscale nature of kinetic theory permits us to determine the
resulting macroscopic (or aggregate) and measurable characteristics of the evolution of the
disease [19]. One of the key directions we pursue in this research is given by the combination
of consolidated theoretical and modelling tools [17] with data-driven techniques. More precisely,
starting from the data at our disposal, we calibrate our mathematical model passing through
the determination of the relevant epidemiological parameters of the epidemic from the data.
Subsequently, we concentrate on modelling the lockdown policies through an optimal control
approach. In particular, we show how different kinds of control may result in very different
mitigation effects, that deeply depend on the heterogeneity in the contact distribution of the


population. In the last part, starting from the calibrated model at our disposal, we dedicate
ourselves to the study of the effects induced by alternative control strategies.