A way to discriminate seems to be the economy in the assumptions. In William of Ockham’s
work, we find implicit the suggestion to avoid multiplying without needs the bases of an nee)
interpretative analysis: what we commonly call Ockham’s razor. Such a viewpoint is sometimes :
considered as concerning the number of peculiar entities involved (principles or else), other times a]
referred to their type. However, in using it we have to take care because the razor may generate DNS
epistemic dilemmas: it is a progressive reduction tending to an absolute minimum of concepts. area
Perhaps, using Ockham’s razor with reference to the entire process of knowledge, including its [kK
implicit constraints (e.g. the degree of deepness that we decide to assign to the description of .
what we analyse) can give more effective results.

The choice of principles addresses our speech on a class of natural phenomena. The formal
expression in mathematical terms of the foundational principles adopted determines linguistic
structures. In fact, mathematics is a language with a singular peculiarity: it allows us to express
statements that are at the same time qualitative and quantitative without resorting to structures
of other languages. For example, when we affirm, e.g., that the readers of this article will be at
most five, we are using English and we qualify the persons involved in our statement—readers—
but to quantify them we resort to a concept—the number five—pertaining to mathematics. This
peculiar aspect furnishes some indications on the descriptive effectiveness of mathematics in
representing nature.

In item 4.21 of his Tractatus, Wittgenstein claims that what in a language expresses itself we
cannot express through the language. To allow our thoughts to represent ‘reality’, it is necessary
that the elements composing the propositions we express about one another be in the same
relationships occurring among the elements of the reality (see item 2.15 in the Tractatus). This
is also Pierre Hadot’s interpretation of Wittgenstein’s concept of logic form [61]. And the reality