In genes and proteins, as we have seen, organic information is the specific sequence of their
subunits. This definition however is not entirely satisfactory because it gives the impression
that information is a static property, something that molecules have simply because they have
a sequence. In reality, there are countless molecules which have a sequence but only in a few
cases this becomes information. That happens only when a copymaker uses it as a guideline for
copying. Without such guidelines, on the other hand, copymakers would produce only random
sequences, not specific ones. Sequences alone or copymakers alone, in other words, have nothing
to do with information. It is only when a sequence provides a guideline to a copymaker that
it becomes information for it. It is only an act of copying, in other words, that brings organic
information into existence.

This tells us that organic information is not just the specific sequence of a molecule, but the
specific sequence produced by a copying process. This definition underlines the fact that organic
information is not a thing or a property, but the result of a process. It is, more precisely, an operative
definition, because information is defined by the process that brings it into existence. We realize
in this way that organic information is as real as the copying process that generates it. This in
turn means that organic information is essential to describe genes and proteins. To this purpose,
in fact, it is no less essential than the physical quantities, and this means that organic information
has the same scientific status as a physical quantity. They both belong to the class of objective entities
that allow us to describe the world.

This conclusion, however, raises immediately a new problem, because there are two distinct
groups of physical quantities: a small group of fundamental quantities (space, time, mass, charge
and temperature) and a much larger group of derived quantities. That distinction applies to all
objective entities, so we need to find out whether organic information belongs to the first or to the