there appear contributions accounting for the transfers of individuals from one country to the : &
other, and these make (4.8) a system of coupled PDEs for the unknown kinetic distributions gj (v) : 3
and go(v). A similar coupling has been found in [3], where a generalized SIR model has been ae

recovered from kinetic equations, allowing passages of susceptible individuals to the infected
class and then to the removed one.

It is in general not possible to compute analytically the steady distributions of system (4.8). It
is well known that steady solutions of pairs of Fokker-Planck equations could show a bimodal
shape, already discussed analytically and numerically in various socio-economic problems,
without ([19]) or with ([3]) transfers. This behaviour is expected also in the present model for
suitable choices of parameters, since the sum of the two equations (4.8) provides an equation
for total distribution analogous to that in [19]. The appearance of two peaks is due to the fact
that single country distributions (that are both vanishing for v > 0* and for v > +00) assume
their maximum value in correspondence to different wealths. Anyway, as extensively discussed
in [26], a bimodal distribution may appear when the saving propensity for one population is really
higher than for the other (namely if the behaviour of the two countries is very different). In our
model, the mobility of individuals could compensate the differences between the two countries
or else favour the growth of one country (in number of individuals and in total wealth); in both
these scenarios, the formation of bimodal distributions would become less probable. Just as an
illustrative example, explicit results may be obtained in the particular case in which transfer from
a selected country to the other is much more probable than the reverse one. Let us consider the
scaling bh = B3 e and pr = O(e?). This assumption could model for instance a situation in which
the passage from country 1 to country 2 is allowed only if the amount of wealth of the individual
in transfer is very high; indeed, the costs related to transfers should be taken into account in the