The human brain can recall stored information aft will as images or representations, manipulate
them, discover overlooked correlations,? and re-store modified or amended versions thereof,
without any concurrent external or somatic input—it can go ‘off line’ [12]. This is information
generation par excellence and represents the human thinking process (e.g. [2,4]). Internally triggered
human brain images, however abstract, are snippets (expressed as many different but distinct
patterns of neural activity in specific regions of the cortex) derived from stored information
acquired in earlier sensory or mental events, and pieced together in different ways under some
central control (the ‘main program’) linked to human self-consciousness.

Whenever a physicist conceives or thinks about the model of a physical system or
physical process, whether classical, relativistic or quantum, whether one-dimensional or multi-
dimensional, his/her brain triggers, transforms and mutually correlates very specific and unique
distributions of neural impulses. The fact that the brain is an eminently classical information-
processing device! that evolved, and is continuously being trained, through information-driven
interactions with the classical macroscopic world, is very germane to how we can imagine,
describe and understand the behaviour of physical systems, either quantum, classical, molecular
or biological. This even applies to mathematics, most notably probability theory [2, §1.6]. For
instance, given a set of mental images of possible outcomes of a quantum measurement, all may
be subjectively viewed as equiprobable by an unbiased observer. Only after personal experience
with multiple measurements under identical conditions, or through information from others who
already have undertaken this task, can the observer develop an objective sense of traditional
probability.
8Given the number of interacting elements (~10!? neurons and ~10"* synapses in the human brain) and the discontinuous

nature of activity distribution, there is little hope that a quantitative mathematical theory of integral brain function could be