
In the preceding sections, we have identified two categories of interactions between bodies or
system components of the Universe as we know it: force-driven and information-driven. The
first category is assumed to be operating in the entire spatio-temporal domain, from the Planck
scale up. The second category leads to the definition of pragmatic information as representing
a physical, causal and univocal correspondence between a pattern and a specific macroscopic
change elicited by some complex interaction mechanism. By this very definition, the domain of
validity of information-driven interactions, and therefore of the concept of pragmatic information
per se, is limited to the classical macroscopic domain. The reason is that in the subatomic quantum
domain patterns (both as spatial and temporal entities) cannot always be defined or identified.
This, in turn, is related to fundamental and exclusive properties of quantum systems.

At this point it seem opportune to present the following experiment-based ‘quantum facts in a
nutshell’.!! Given a single quantum system that has been physically prepared in a certain way, it
is impossible in principle to determine or verify its particular state by a single measurement. Having
many similar quantum systems prepared in identical ways and subjecting each one to identical
measurements, one will obtain a collection of measurement values from among a common (often
discrete) set that only depends on the instrument and how it is used,!? called the eigenvalues of the
observable in question (the observable itself also being defined by the instrument!%). The set of
probabilities of occurrence of eigenvalues is what characterizes the common state of each quantum
system at the time of measurement (Born’s rule). While it is impossible to predict the outcome of
one measurement, the set of probabilities of obtaining the eigenvalues in a given measurement
procedure is deterministic, depending only on preparation and history of the quantum system.
This is not all: when a single quantum system is measured and one of the possible eigenvalues
of the corresponding observable is obtained, the quantum system emerges in a special state such