are found. From an evolutionary perspective, genes can in principle be classified into different
groups, as signature genes (characteristic of one particular group of viruses), hallmark genes
(encoding key proteins and shared by overlapping sets of diverse viruses), or orphan genes
(found in a single genome) [46]. However, the bipartite network representation or viral genes and
genomes allows the use of multiple quantitative measures that, in the framework of complex
networks [126], might both reveal the intimate architecture of gene sharing and point at dominant
evolutionary mechanisms. For example, the observed scale-free distribution of the number
of genomes that contain a given gene suggests a unique underlying generating mechanism.
Community analyses [127] of the bipartite network corresponding to the double-stranded DNA
viruses reveal, however, the existence of non-trivial correlations among genomes that translate
into the consistent identification of major viral groups [46].

Our current knowledge of the virosphere is, as of yet, poor and biased [128], a fact that
certainly limits our understanding of its role as source of functional diversity. The apparent
phylogenetic discontinuity between viral groups that we observe may also result from that
poor sampling: a more comprehensive knowledge of viral diversity could bring about a more
parsimonious understanding of how viral evolution has unfolded [129]. With obvious differences,
this suggestion recalls the interpretative difficulties (and even the disdain) that surrounded
paleontology, due to the incompleteness of the fossil record, until well into the twentieth
century. A history of the world imperfectly kept, in Darwin’s words [130], severely delayed
the incorporation of paleontology as a discipline proper of evolutionary biology [131]. This is
certainly not the case of virology, but suggests that evolutionary principles inferred from too
sparse data might require substantial revision when data become more abundant and complete.
Evolutionary theory is on the move.
