gravitational equations of the standard model are no longer valid. For a reliable description of the
primordial Universe, we should thus use a more general theoretical approach, compatible with
gravity also in the quantum regime.

A possible candidate for such a theory, able to describe in a consistent way all fundamental
interactions, including gravity, at all energy scales and in the quantum regime, is string theory (see
e.g. [10-12]). Why should we consider string theory, instead of other alternative approaches to a
quantum description of gravity? We have of course many possible answers to this question but,
in my opinion, there is a very simple—and compelling—reason: for a quantized string, gravity is
not an ‘optional’ ingredient to be possibly included into the theory; it is an interaction necessarily
predicted by the string model at the quantum level.

Let us briefly recall, in fact, that an extended object like a string corresponds, dynamically,
to a constrained system, whose motion has to be consistently described not only in terms of the
appropriate Eulero—-Lagrange equations, but also imposing a set of constraints to be satisfied at
any point along the string trajectory. When the string is quantized such constraints are represented
by an infinite (discrete) series of operators (the Virasoro operators), and the Hilbert space of
the physical states is formed by (all and only) those states annihilated by the application of the
Virasoro operators. And the constraint corresponding to the lowest order operator imposes on
the states the mass-shell condition, determining the allowed energy levels of the string spectrum.

It follows, in particular, that the string states can be ordered as a ‘tower’ of growing (and
discrete) mass and angular momentum eigenvalues. And if we look at the subset of massless
eigenstates we find that the spectrum of the closed strings contains (besides other fields)
a symmetric tensor field of rank two, which is transverse and traceless, and which has all