process, in particular during prototyping and initial experimental stages of chip thinning.

On the other hand, there is wet etching, which has been described in [64] as a technique that
requires both pre- and post-processing, unlike the two other techniques already described. The
methodology would be as follows: first deposit a mask layer on the back side of the wafer, process
the front side and then etch the back side. The advantages of using such a technique would
be that, firstly, it is a well-established technique, with studies being done on neural probes as
early as 1997 [70], meaning that there is substantial literature to compare to when performing
experiments. Moreover, as reported in the literature, low thicknesses of approximately 15 ym have
been achieved by Dahiya et al. [71] in flexible substrates using tetramethylammonium hydroxide
(TMAH) as the etchant, demonstrating its potential for translation to neural probe scenarios,
where low thicknesses are desirable. However, one should note that this technique also poses
some challenges such as the fact the wafer could be too sensitive to the etchant concentration [72].

Furthermore, in more recent years, more research studies have been published on other
methods of chip thinning such as layer transfer methods and epitaxial-based wafers, which will
be briefly introduced. The former set includes methods such as proton-induced exfoliation which
uses a beam of hydrogen ions to, as its name suggests, exfoliate a layer of the wafer when they are
heated. This method, however, has been deemed unsuitable currently because it causes too much
damage to the electronic components [64,73]. The latter method of epitaxial-based wafers includes
techniques such as the one created by ChipFilm Technology [74] which entails the use of two
porous layers, each of a different porosity, between the silicon epitaxial layer and the substrate.
By lifting off the epitaxial layer, thinning is achieved. With this method, thicknesses of down to
15m have been obtained, as shown in [75]. However, warpage has been reported [76] and there
are no studies found by the authors done on neural probes currently, so more research should be