proposals invaded hastily the cosmology market: it certified the birth of the miscellaneous notion : =
of ‘dark energy’ (DE), see [59] and the long list of references therein. Its purpose was to replace : =
(in ‘infinitely’ many different disguises) the function made by the A-term in Einstein’s equations. 1B
Because of the CCP, the vacuum energy option for the DE became outcast as if being blamed of all : =
evils, particularly of the acute fine-tuning problem. However, the criticisms usually had nothing :R
better to offer, except to defend tooth and nail some particular form of DE without improving : 3
an inch the fine-tuning illness—which for some mysterious reason was (exclusively) ascribed to 1S
the CC option. But this is not fair. All devised forms of DE are, in principle, pestered with the :8
same tuning illness and to a degree which is no lesser than the CC itself. Paradoxically enough, it : 3
s

turns out that the vacuum energy can actually escape such a fate, as we will show here, after it is
properly renormalized [57,58]. The vacuum is in fact the most fundamental notion of QFT. Thus,
a correct description of the CCP using the quantum vacuum and the machinery of QFT should be
the most desirable approach to tackle the big CC conundrum from first principles.

One expects that any sensible proposal should largely preserve the concordance ACDM
model, which is formulated in the context of the Friedman—Lemaitre—-Robertson—Walker (FLRW)
framework and is deeply ingrained in the general relativity (GR) paradigm. However, one of the
most important drawbacks of GR is that it is a non-renormalizable theory. This can be considered
a theoretical impediment for GR to be categorized as a fundamental theory of gravity and hence it
adversely impacts on the status of ACDM as well. GR cannot properly describe the short distance
effects of gravity (the ultraviolet regime, UV), only the large distance effects (or infrared regime,
IR). As a consequence, GR alone cannot provide a framework for quantizing gravity (the metric
tensor field of space-time) together with the rest of the fundamental interactions (assuming of