adversely impacts on the status of ACDM as well. GR cannot properly describe the short distance
effects of gravity (the ultraviolet regime, UV), only the large distance effects (or infrared regime,
IR). As a consequence, GR alone cannot provide a framework for quantizing gravity (the metric
tensor field of space-time) together with the rest of the fundamental interactions (assuming of
course that gravity can be quantized on conventional grounds). Nonetheless, a first (rougher,
albeit effective) approach is to treat gravity as a classical (external or background) field and
quantize the matter fields only. This is, after all, the essence of the time-honoured semiclassical
approach called QFT in curved space-time, see e.g. [60-65] for a review.

It will be our approach here too. Notwithstanding its limitations, we will still be able to
estimate the quantum effects from the matter fields and their contribution to the VED, pyac, and
will enable us to renormalize these effects (originally UV-divergent) and obtain finite quantities
that can be better compared with observations. In point of fact, the renormalization group
(RG) flow driving the VED in our framework will be seen to be free from the troublesome
~m* contributions (viz. proportional to the quartic powers of the masses of the matter fields)
which would otherwise be obtained e.g. using the minimal subtraction (MS) scheme and other
regulators. This was first shown in the literature in ref. [57] and further extended in [58]. In
these works, the VED appears as an expansion in powers of H and its time derivatives: pyac =
Pvac(H, H,H,.. .). The expansion terms are the result of quantum effects computed within the
context of QFT in curved space-time. For the present universe, pyac greatly simplifies and it
appears as the sum of a dominant term plus a dynamical component which varies as ~vHP nt,
where v is a small (dimensionless) and computable coefficient (playing the role of 6-function


coefficient of the VED running) and mp, is the usual Planck mass (mp; = Gy! 2), Such a result