equation Lg = 0. The first term in (2.11) is the stress-energy tensor of the infinite static planar
brane on which the scalar fields propagate as small-amplitude fluctuations in the n — p ‘extra’
dimensions inaccessible to denizens of the brane.

This simple example demonstrates that light-speed waves of scalar fields may have an
interpretation as disturbances of an aether in a way that is consistent with SR. There is
more to do before the same claim can be made for the vector fields of electromagnetism. An
ad-hoc introduction of electromagnetic fields on the brane would explain neither why they are
confined to it nor how they might be considered fluctuations of it, but supersymmetry provides
the means to make this ‘electromagnetism on the brane’ natural because it allows scalar fields
to be connected by a symmetry to electromagnetic fields. This possibility is not realized by brane
solitons of Minkowski space field theories, which all have an effective description involving fields
of spins <3 [8,9]. A closely related fact is that soliton solutions of a maximally supersymmetric
field theory preserve at most half of the supersymmetry, which implies that a 3-brane solution
of a Minkowski space field theory can have at most N = 2 four-dimensional supersymmetry (an
N=1 example was studied in [10]). So we must look to (super)gravity.

Of most relevance here are the maximal 10-dimensional supergravity theories (IIA and
IIB); these have planar static black brane solutions that are asymptotically flat in transverse
directions [11,12]. A generic black p-brane of this type carries a p-form ‘charge-density’ of
magnitude T < €, which is a source for a (p + 1)-form potential among the supergravity fields
(p =1,3,5 for the chiral IIB supergravity). The terminology ‘BPS’ is generally used for an ultra-
relativistic black p-brane solution with T = €, and a special feature of a BPS p-brane supergravity
solution is that it preserves half the supersymmetry of the 10-dimensional Minkowski vacuum.
Specifically, it breaks the 10-dimensional maximal space-time supersymmetry to a maximal