(right image in figure 3a,b). It is worth mentioning that interfaces with varied fracture properties
could be formed between matrix and graphene due to the direct bonding between the layers
and the ceramic grains or with the grain boundary phase composed by the sintering additives.
Moreover, two situations seem to occur in the light of the type of platelets, (i) GNP platelets
form weak bonds with the matrix allowing debonding at interface, activating deflection, and
short bridging and pull-out. (ii) rGO platelets form strong bonding with the matrix which leads
to improved stress transfer, debonding in between graphene planes, higher closure stresses and
large pull-out distances.

The factors mentioned act in combination with residual stresses from thermal expansion
mismatch and with the final structure of the platelets once the composite is sintered, as in many
cases full exfoliation could not be achieved and big stacks formed by weakly bonded layers
constitute the reinforcing ligament. In fact, Liu et al. have studied the interfacial strength between
HA/graphene, observing that the highest load transfer could occur in the platelets’ external layers
[33]. In regions with strong matrix/platelet interfaces, which could imply a crack propagation
through the platelet, the mechanism of deflection could remain active as the crack can still be
driven in between the graphene planes. The importance of interface control in ceramic/graphene
composites has been pointed out in recent years [82] and further investigations to determine
the role of residual stresses in platelets debonding need to be carried out to optimize the
reinforcing effect. The coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) of structural ceramics is in the range
approximately 3-10 x 10- K-!, lower than out of plane CTE of the platelets (27 x 10-6 K~}),
which would produce tensile stresses perpendicular to the graphene plane; on the contrary, other
conditions are expected at the edges of the platelets, affected by a lower in-plane CTE.

Crack wake bridging is the mechanism that contributes the most to fracture toughness