(d) Intralaminar damage

The use of CDM in the analysis of intralaminar damage in laminated composites has garnered Dw
much support within the modelling community with a focus on capturing impact damage 2
(e.g. [50-57]) and predicting compression after impact (CAI) strength (e.g. [54,55,58,59]). CDM [8
is based on the concept proposed by Kachanov [60] and further developed by Lemaitre & 1S
Chaboche [61]. Using a one-dimensional element example, under loading, microscopic cracks .
and voids form within a representative volume of material, leading to a reduction in the effective
load bearing area, from the original cross-sectional area, A, to A. The reduction of this load
bearing area provides a measure of damage within the RVE, A/A = (1 —d), where the damage
parameter, d, similarly to the definition given for the softening law association with interlaminar
damage, is bounded (0 <d <1) and monotonically increasing to prevent non-physical healing.
By conceptualizing A as the cross-section area of a ‘fictitious’ undamaged material under the
same loading, we can relate the transmitted stress, 0, to the ‘effective’ stress, ¢, in the fictitious
undamaged configuration, o =¢(1—d). By assuming that the same strain is acting on the
damaged and fictitious pristine material, it may be shown that this leads to a linear reduction
in modulus, E = E(1 — d).

A constitutive plane stress model for anisotropic damage in fibre-reinforced composites was
first presented in [62] and has formed the basis for the numerous formulations that have since
been proposed. In the approach developed by the author, a RVE of a homogenized fibre-
reinforced polymer composite is subjected to a full three-dimensional stress state. It is assumed
that the fibres are unidirectional along the 1-direction with directions 2 and 3, representing the
transverse and through-thickness directions, respectively, figure 3. This may be assumed to be
the material coordinate system. Two intralaminar internal damage variables are defined, one