
the 95% confidence interval, which is not unexpected given we are working with a posterior | 16 |
predictive distribution. Typically, a model which accounts for ignorable missingness will have less
uncertainty associated with its estimates than a model that does not account for this missingness.
However, we would not expect the point estimates to change much. In other words, for a fixed
dataset, we expect the 95% credible intervals for Pg associated with Model 4.2 to be narrower than
the one associated with Model 4.1. As can be seen in table 3, that trend is observed here.

It is really only for the non-ignorable model that we see significant differences in inference
based on whether we treat inconclusives as observed or missing. For both models, the estimated
proportion of errors in a study is much higher than for either the naive or ignorable model. This

is not particularly surprising given the fact that the MLEs for the hyper-parameters resulted in ‘3
priors that indicated examiners would be unlikely to respond in the event of an error (i.e. a prior : s
that assumed 79;’s were centred close to 0) for both datasets. The predicted error rate increased : S
substantially when inconclusives were treated as missing. This is likely due to the combination {=
of the difference in MLEs (i.e. the MLE for jz» was higher when inconclusives were treated as 8
missing than when they were treated as observed) and the incredibly high non-response rates. : =
The non-response rate when inconclusives are treated as observed is 48.5% (note we are dropping : =
the distinction between unit and item non-response for the moment). This rate increases to 64% 13
when inconclusives are treated as missing, meaning that the majority of comparison decisions are : =
now being imputed. Overall, these findings suggest that the inferences in this black-box study are DR
heavily dependent on the missingness mechanism. If missingness is truly non-ignorable, naively aieel
ignoring the missingness could result in gross underestimates of error rates for a study. : =
Until now, we have focused on study-level inferential goals. Eldridge et al. [5] and other :8