Granular materials are mesoscopic—in their dynamics, the microscopic (grain-level) temporal
and spatial scales are not well separated from the macroscopic scales. The lack of scale separation
is related not only to the fairly large ratio of grain size to the dimensions of systems typically
analysed in practical problems (or, equivalently, relatively small number of grains within an
analysed volume), but, most importantly, to the nature of interactions between grains [47,58,59].
Thus, mesoscopy is a generic feature of those materials, manifesting itself in phenomena unique to
them: a tendency to form clusters of grains, non-local character of macroscopic properties, history
effects, scale dependence of stress, long-length correlations associated with force networks,
arches of grains, etc. It is not surprising that those effects are amplified in strongly polydisperse
materials, in which a wide size span of grains additionally blurs the boundary between micro- and
macro-scales: when the grain-size distributions are heavy-tailed, contact and force networks tend
to be fractal (see, e.g., [8,54,56,57], and references there). Another feature, closely related to the
fractal, ‘openwork’ character of force networks, is the fact that the forces are carried primarily by
asmall subset of the largest grains. Those grains build a skeleton of the force network and stay ina
semi-permanent contact with each other, while smaller grains in regions not participating in force
transmission constantly rearrange their positions and take part in relatively short-lived collisions
(as analysed in detail in [8]). Therefore, there is no clear boundary between the ‘collisional regime’
and ‘permanent-contact regime’. To the contrary, different types of contacts coexist and the range
of applicability of collisional-type rheologies is hard to define.

Not surprisingly, all those properties lead to difficulties in continuum modelling, for which
separation of scales is a prerequisite. Yet another difficulty—contrary to those mentioned above
related specifically to sea ice—are increasing spatial resolutions of continuum sea ice models,
especially those operated at regional and local scales. Although, indisputably, that development is
very positive, the drawback is that even in the MIZ, where ice floes are relatively small, continuum