images can be comparable with those derived from lower resolution images (i.e. TX SM and
TX SC). For this purpose, we selected four TX images—two images representing the transition
cases and two images representing early and late melt cases. The floe size distributions and
shape factors from the TX images are compared with those from MEDEA images in figure 6.
For the comparison, the floe size was rescaled to 4 (= d/d-), where d; is the cut-off diameter. d; is
selected based on the minimum floe size and manually adjusted (in our case, d- = 5m for MEDEA,
dc = 15m for TX SM, de = 50m for TX SC and d- = 1.9m for WV3) [37].

For the transition cases, we selected a TX SC image (acquired on 24 June 2012 in the Chukchi
Sea) and a TX SM image (acquired on 31 July 2018 in the Fram Strait). Based on the appearance of
ice floes and dates/locations, the two TX images represent the floe conditions during transition
rather than during fracturing (see electronic supplementary material, figure S6a,b). This is also
partly supported by the fact that the shape factors from the two TX images have the floe size
distributions close to the transition cases (figure 62). It should be noted that TX images taken
right after the spring breakup are often difficult to delineate the floe boundary and derive
the floe size, as TX images contain speckle noises and have lower resolutions than MEDEA
images.

The comparison of the floe size distribution (in 4) shows that the power-law regimes of the two
TX cases have steeper slopes than the fracturing cases (figure 6a). The power-law exponent @ from
the TX SC image (6 = 8.25 m) is 2.44 over the floe size range of d= 300-10000m, a from the TX
SM image (6 = 2.75 m) is 2.66 over the floe size range of d = 405-3500 m (electronic supplementary
material, table S2). Both cases show high confidence (p > 0.1) in being a power-law regime. The
low-cut limit (i.e. the smallest floe size of the power-law regime) from the TX SM image is larger
than that from the TX SC image, although the resolution of the TX SC image is much lower.