Hatteras (CH). The figures use the same units (shown in the colourbar). Talley and McCartney used the PV minimum itself to
define LSW, while Bild and Johns show PV on the o = 36.88 kg m=? surface. Bild and Johns also show salinity contours on
this surface, highlighting that low PV LSW waters are significantly fresher than the Mediterranean Overflow Water in the same
density range. The approximate location of the OSNAP line is shown in red in the left panel. Both panels used with permission;
(a) American Meteorological Society, (b) John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Circulation (AMOC). The southward spreading of this oxygen- and carbon-rich water mass is
thought to prevent large-scale hypoxia in the North Atlantic and store anthropogenic carbon
away from the atmosphere for hundreds of years [1,2]. Thus, understanding how LSW spreads
into the deep North Atlantic and how this might change in the future is a critical component of
understanding our changing climate.

The fact that LSW spreads into the deep Atlantic was suggested by Wiist [3], who observed a
core of high oxygen waters at about 2000 m depth focused at the western boundary. After World
War II, Stommel and Arons developed a theory for a Deep Western Boundary Current (DWBC)
along which waters such as LSW could spread [4]. The existence of this current was confirmed by
the coordinated hydrographic and float measurements of Swallow & Worthington [5].

In 1982, Talley & McCartney made detailed maps of LSW in the North Atlantic based on its
characteristic low potential vorticity (PV) [6] (figure 1a). LSW has low PV because it is formed
through deep convection, which creates a thick, unstratified layer [8,9]. LSW is also anomalously
fresh and cold as winter atmospheric temperatures mix fresh Arctic waters to great depths. Talley
and McCartney’s maps show that LSW spreads primarily, but not exclusively, along the western
boundary of the North Atlantic and found that the LSW PV, temperature and salinity minimum
increased as LSW spread southward. They hypothesized that temporal changes in LSW formation