operando simulation methods that capture the functional behaviour under working conditions.
Operando modelling can certainly not be achieved using only one single technique; instead, a
range of models based on molecular dynamics (MD) methods, microkinetic models and machine
learning algorithms are currently explored [22-24]. The inherent problem when modelling the
dynamic response of the material is the inherent broad set of intrinsic time scales relevant for
the dynamic evolution of the material ranging from the ps to the ms range. The shortest time
scales are found in molecular motions and vibrations which occur on the (sub)picosecond time
scale, whereas activated processes are not captured in this narrow time window. Within the
field of heterogeneous catalysis, much research has been devoted to understand how the crystal
morphology and size influence the transport and catalytic function. An overall integrative view
on the entanglement between transport, kinetics and the way these are affected by the spatial
heterogeneities is still an open question. The terminology spatio-temporal evolution of a material
has been coined, referring to the fact that the dynamics of the material is affected by the material’s
spatial properties [1,25]. Looking from a more holistic perspective, it is important to realize that
materials and processes have an intrinsic life cycle. This concept has been nicely documented
in catalysis research and referred as the ‘birth, life and death’ of a catalytic solid [26,27]. Birth
refers to the fact that a freshly prepared catalyst material first needs to be activated when


loaded in the chemical reactor. During this activation phase, the material structurally changes
to a point where it enters the active period of its life cycle. Even in the active period, catalytic
solids show a heterogeneous spatio-temporal behaviour. Comparable with enzymes, which are
found to ‘sleep and work’, catalyst may show a similar on-off behaviour [28-31]. Major efforts
have been undertaken within the field of spectroscopy, imaging and characterization to follow
the spatio-temporal evolution of the material. Operando spectroscopy was introduced around