in game theory (e.g. [52] and the large subsequent literature) will be of restricted usefulness
in dealing with such real-world complexity. For building specific models of restricted social,
economic and communicative interactions, a formal theory of virtual bargaining is undoubtedly
useful (e.g. [37,53]). But the general problem of understanding how people reach agreements,
whether explicit or virtual, is likely to be no easier than the challenge of understanding human
intelligence as a whole.

The meaning of an individual signal only makes sense by contrast with the signals that
might have been used, but were not. Thus, from a computational point of view, the objective
is to find a mapping from the set of possible signals to the set of possible meanings, such that
this mapping would be agreed by the sender and receiver. The combinatoric challenge here
is potentially formidable: the number of such mappings will be very large. But the problem
of searching through signal-meaning mappings is greatly simplified by the fact that success
requires that the sender and audience agree on the same mapping—hence as long as both parties
share the same biases in searching through these combinations, the existence of a huge search-
space of cognitively unnatural mappings may be largely irrelevant (see [54,55], for more general
discussion using the same style of argument).

Finally, note that the process of simulated bargaining presupposes that the sender and
audience are attempting to cooperate (e.g. to help the selection of bananas rather than scorpions,
in the above examples; see, for example, Grice’s [41] cooperative principle and similar to
assumptions in other frameworks for pragmatic inference, e.g. [29,30,56]). But this assumption is
purely hypothetical: that is, one person can understand another through a common presupposition
of cooperation, even if both parties actually know that neither trusts the other. Thus, suppose we
consider archenemies facing each other in the scorpion and banana set-up. Both participants will