thought. They are, according to Kant, thinkable, insofar as this thinking is logical. While a rigorous
scientific theory in physics or elsewhere, even a non-realist one, must of course be logical, here, as
in all realist theories, this requirement gives the possible architecture of noumena and thus nature
a logical character, a conception that is a product of human thought [22, p. 115]. It is true that
we are capable of thinking in a logically consistent way beyond things that we know or that are
phenomenally available to our understanding. Kant associates this type of thinking with what
he calls reason (Vernunft), which is a different and higher faculty than understanding (Verstand),
dealing with phenomena only, and which could in principle reach the ultimate nature of things.

Kant recognizes that our thinking concerning the character of noumena or things-in-themselves
may be wrong, even if it works in practice. However, his view of the situation still logically implies
that this thinking may also be correct, even though it may not be possible to definitively verify its
correctness. Indeed, Kant appears to suggest that some claims of reason are in fact determinately
correct. I shall, however, put this part of his argument aside, because it represents a form realism
of the first type considered above and is, hence, of less interest here, as against more sceptical
dimensions of his thought that only allow that such claims may be true but are never certain to
be true. (In this regard, his thinking comes close to that of D. Hume, whose philosophy Kant,

Thus, Hacking’s concept of ‘entity realism’ (versus ‘theory realism’) and some of its avatars, developed during recent decades
in the philosophy of science and debates concerning the question of reality there, as mentioned in footnote 3, may be argued
to be examples of this use of the term realism [6].


in general, aims to supersede.) As Kant also argued, under this assumption of only possible | 2 |
rather than determinate truth of our conception of ultimate reality, this conception need not