successful in physics apart from quantum mechanics. This resistance was well realized by Bohr
[12, vol. 2, p. 63]. At stake is a confrontation, dramatically enacted in the Bohr-Einstein debate,
between two radically different ways of thought. The question, which is still open and which
might remain open for years to come, is whether nature will ultimately allow for the first, realist
architecture. Einstein hoped and even believed that it will, while Bohr thought that it might not,
which is not the same as to say that it never will.

In non-realist interpretations of quantum phenomena and quantum mechanics, only
predictions, moreover, in general, only of a probabilistic or statistical nature, concerning quantum
phenomena, even those associated with primitive individual quantum processes, are possible.

This is one of the reasons (but not the only reason) for such interpretations, because this character
of quantum predictions is an experimental fact. As noted from the outset, the repetition of
identically prepared experiments, in general, leads to different outcomes. Unlike in classical
physics, this difference cannot be improved beyond a certain limit (defined by Planck’s constant,
h) by improving the conditions of measurement, a fact also reflected in the uncertainty relations,
which are equivalent or correlative to the statistical nature of quantum predictions. This character
of quantum predictions must, accordingly, be equally maintained, as must also, and correlatively,
be the uncertainty relations, by realist interpretations of these theories or alternative theories,
such as Bohmian theories. In Bohmian theories, a given quantum object is assumed to possess
both position and the momentum, defined exactly at any moment of time, which allows for
realism and causality. However, these theories both, and again correlatively, reproduce the
statistical predictions of quantum mechanics and retain the uncertainty relations, because a
given measurement always disturbs, actually disturbs, the object and displaces the value of
one of these properties. This type of disturbance of independent causal quantum behaviour