classical determinism, because one could define determinism in a more quantum-mechanical
way. Schrédinger’s equation is sometimes seen (in my view, not rigorously) as deterministic, and
sometimes as causal. Once again, however, unless qualified otherwise, I shall by determinism
refer to classical determinism. Determinism is sometimes used in the same sense as causality, and
in the case of classical mechanics, which deals with single objects or a small number of objects,
causality and determinism essentially coincide. Once the system is large enough, one needs a
superhuman power to predict its behaviour exactly, as was famously noted by P. S. Laplace, albeit
in order to argue for the causal nature of the world.

While, however, it follows automatically that non-causal behaviour, considered at the level
of a given model, cannot be handled deterministically, the reverse is not true. The underlined
qualification is necessary because we can have causal models of processes in nature that may not
be ultimately causal. The fact that the causal models of classical physics apply and are effective
within the proper limits of classical physics does not mean that the ultimate character of the actual
processes that are responsible for classical phenomena is causal. They may not be, for example,
by virtue of their ultimately quantum nature. Nor, conversely, does the non-causal character of a
model, for example, that of quantum mechanics in the present interpretation, guarantee that the
ultimate nature of reality is non-causal. It may ultimately prove to be causal, and, to begin with,
amenable to a realist treatment, and many, again, hope it will be.

As all models, non-causal or, in the first place, non-realist, such as quantum-mechanical,
models of the ultimate constitution of nature are (interpretive) idealizations, formed by
theories that contain these models. In particular, rigorously it is only determinism that
quantum phenomena preclude, because, as noted from the outset, identically prepared quantum
experiments in general lead to different outcomes. As against classical physics, the difference