However, it is important to note that hydrodynamic expansion timescales are not the only
timescale of interest. Not all species in a sample (e.g. ions and electrons) are initially heated in
the same way when creating WDM. For example, shock compression heats ions, e.g. [43,44],
which transfer energy to electrons through collisions. By contrast, X-ray heating, e.g. [45] transfers
energy to electrons via photo-ionization and these transfer energy to ions via collisional processes
and electron-phonon coupling. The rate at which energy is transferred between ions and
electrons, and indeed the rate at which processes, such as melting, occur, is an important factor to
consider when studying the formation of WDM and forms an important topic in this collection
addressed by several papers. Not only will this rate determine if we have conditions relevant
to equilibrium situations, but macroscopic quantities such as electrical and thermal conduction
depend on this rate. These latter quantities are of vital importance in planetary interiors.

Interest in the issue of electron-ion equilibration is further motivated by the fact that short-
pulse laser systems have also been used to extend WDM experiments to the other end of the
temporal scale, for example, Lecherbourg et al. [46] will present results on the evolution of
solid copper into a warm dense matter state, in this case, after excitation with a femtosecond
laser pulse. More recently, and of particular significance to the work in this issue, the advent of
X-ray free-electron lasers has made it possible to achieve volumetric heating on sub-picosecond
timescales [45,47]. Using this property, Ren et al. [48] discuss the application of inner shell
photoionization to creation of a solid density X-ray laser using volumetric pumping with a
free electron laser, with particular attention paid to collisional effects of photo-ejected electrons,
an issue of relevance to volumetric X-ray heating of WDM. In another paper, Hu et al. [49]
discuss electron-lattice equilibration within the context of ultra-fast X-ray diagnostics, but
again, with physics encompassing processes relevant to WDM production. The development
of the field of WDM physics means experimental and modelling techniques progress together,