(see for instance [36, p. 32]).

On the other hand, accepting that the PII might not hold seems to be a possibility that many
scholars would prefer to avoid. An interesting symptom of the resistance to relinquish the PII
is provided by the debates in philosophy of mathematics around the objection proposed by
Burguess and Keranen to mathematical structuralism [37-42] (see also Wiithrich’s translation
of this identity problem for realist structuralism to the framework provided by space-time physics
[43-45]).3 On the physical side, the attempt to preserve Leibniz’s PII at all costs led some scholars
to follow Quine [46] in the introduction of different grades (absolute, relative and weak) of
discernibility [47-49] (see also [50,51]). Very briefly, these authors maintain that Leibniz’s PII can
be forced to be valid by relaxing or weakening the corresponding notion of discernibility (by
including for instance irreflexive relations). In turn, it has been counterargued that these weaker
forms of discernibility just restate the fact that the corresponding multiplicity of individuals
(e.g. points in a homogeneous space) is purely numerical, without grounding these numerical
distinctions on qualitative differences (as the ‘spirit’ of Leibniz’s PII seems to require) [52-54].
From a more philosophical standpoint, the willingness to preserve Leibniz’s PII at all costs results
(at least partially) from the fact that if the PII were not valid, then the individuality of an entity
would rely on some form of metaphysical notion of primitive thisness [16], haecceity, bare or thin
particular, Lockean substratum or (in Post's terms) transcendental individuality [17]. All these notions
make reference to some form of nonqualitative support that would carry the corresponding
properties and provide an ante-predicative form of individuation. In Post’s terms, transcendental
individuality ‘means something that transcends observable differences’ [15,17]. According to the
scholars that understand individuals as bundles of properties, this possibility seems to be a mere
metaphysical presupposition that we should better avoid.*
