
1°For other discussions regarding the applicability of the notion of ‘primitive thisness’ to quantum systems see [100-102] and
(79, pp. 16-35], as well as Kastner [99].

| By pushing further this similarity between exchange symmetries and gauge symmetries, Margeneau argues that Pauli’s
exclusion principle, ‘by merely stipulating antisymmetry, automatically introduces correlations between the states of the two
particles. Although the correlations are of non-dynamical origin, arising as they do a formal principle of symmetry, they
have the same physical effects as if were due to forces [---] There is an interesting and far-reaching parallelism between
the general principle of relativity and the exclusion principle. The former creates physically perceptible forces out of the
metric of space; by endowing its equations with the formal property of invariance it is able to account for the phenomenon
of gravitation, no reference being made to the ordinary concept of force. The exclusion principle imposes another formal
property, antisymmetry, upon the state functions of quantum physics and thereby yields correlations which are tantamount
to forces. The physicist in fact calls them exchange forces without any apparent embarrassment’ [64, pp. 195-196].


of Noether’s results cannot be overestated since it provides the mathematical foundations of one Lo |
of the most important achievements of the twentieth century physics, namely the geometrization

of the fundamental interactions. Whereas general relativity provides a geometric description of 3
the gravitational interaction, Yang and Mills successfully extended—in the wake of previous :
work done by Weyl—this geometrization programme to the other fundamental interactions,
namely, electromagnetism and the string and weak nuclear forces [112,113]. The mathematical
structures of these theories share a common formal feature, namely, the presence of so-called gauge
symmetries given by the invariance of the physical predictions under local gauge transformations,
that is, under space-time-dependent transformations of the local coordinate systems (for the