that advocate an ontology and a logic of non-individuals, indiscernibles can be introduced by : =
suspending the universal application of the self-identity predicate x =a. We could say that in 7k
this approach, the notions of no-identity, non-individuality and indiscernibility go together. By [3
contrast, the mathematical approaches based on homotopy type theory seem to hold space for : 2
indiscernibles (a) by expanding or stretching the mathematical notion of equality beyond strict (8
equality and (b) by understanding equalities as types of proofs. In this framework, an entity |
a:X might have a non-trivial identity in the sense that there might be different inequivalent 7

proofs of the proposition a =x a (this is typically the case when a has non-trivial symmetries or
automorphisms). In this way, the attempts to hold space for indiscernible entities seems to lead
either to entities without identity or to entities with a non-trivial identity. The common point is that
in both cases it seems necessary to go beyond set-theoretic foundations in order to cope with
indiscernible entities. That being said, the scope of this comparison is limited by the fact that
the corresponding notions of indiscernibility are not necessarily the same. Whereas the notion
of non-individual was forged to deal with quantum indiscernibility, the canonical example of
indiscernibility formalized by homotopy type theory is the indiscernibility between two path-
connected points in a space. It is also worth noting that the project of going beyond set-theoretic
foundations in order to hold space for indiscernible objects does not depend on any ontological
thesis about the ultimate nature of the corresponding indiscernibilities. Even if indiscernible
objects arise as a result of a process of abstraction (as Leibniz claimed [36, p. 32]) or as a
consequence of the limitations of the corresponding language (as it is the case in Galois theory),
or if they are objects that emerge in certain regimes or under certain approximations, once they are
there they present a rich mathematical structure that has to be properly understood.
Independently of the reader’s position with respect to the understanding of indiscernibilities in
physics, mathematics and philosophy, there is no doubt that the discussions around these topics