over how to see variation was preserved in later work, including work in information theory, that
honestly puzzled over the question of whether equiprobability was complete order, or complete
disorder!! Would a utopian world of complete equality be the ultimate achievement of the
rational reconstruction of an orderly society, or equivalent to the heat death of a universe whose
entropy had been maximized? Is all organization non-randomness, and is all non-randomness
organization? These questions still drift around in social theory. To try to clarify, I will give a brief
and selective recap of how thermodynamic ideas entered the social sciences, concentrating on
sociology, and then consider what possibilities there are for future thought.

2. The early days of social statistics

It is true that early social scientific thought was inspired by physics, but it is not true that such
thought was inspired by thermodynamics. In fact, the reverse is true: thermodynamics was
inspired by social thought and took its ideas not from the mathematics whereby they had first
been worked out in astronomy, but indirectly, via social science.

The famous law of errors, the inverse square law, had already been developed when the young
Belgian scientist Adolphe Quetelet? went to Paris to learn astronomy. He made the creative
transfer of the mathematics he learned there, mathematics for the repeated observations of a
single unit subject to error, to the different case of single measurements for repeated units. What
is the difference, he said, between measuring a single statue 10 times with poor instruments and
measuring 10 different people? In either case, we have a bell-shaped distribution with an average
and a quantifiable standard deviation, and the interpretations can be similar. Nature, he said,
shoots for the average man the way a marksman shoots for target—the variation that exists in our
heights, chest lengths, chest widths, and so on, simply result from the fact that nature’s gun has