not universally acclaimed. The two fields of inquiry only connected in the joint reliance on the
probabilistic approach to aggregate statistics, and such ideas were not accepted by all social
thinkers. First, we must remember that at the time, one could be interested in ‘statistics’—that
is, information on populations that generally had been gathered by governments—and reject
the notion that such human statistics were amenable to analysis via probability. Auguste Comte,
the putative father of sociology, was probably not alone when he characterized this as a ‘radical
inanity’ ([10, p. 492]).

Even more, despite the developing tie between these statistics and thermodynamics, there
was (so far as I know) very little interest in thinking about the implications for social life of the
thermodynamic laws of entropy. The assumption of progress as an obvious and incontestable
feature of the globe, or of the west, or perhaps only of Anglo American societies, would likely
have made any such inquiries seem silly. In fact, Herbert Spencer, in his First Principles [11, p.
327], emphasized the exact opposite law—what we might consider a law of reverse entropy.
Take a beaker of a fluid warmed to a homogeneous temperature throughout and set it out on
a table, Spencer directed. If you do, you will see that after a while the temperature is no longer
homogeneous. This, he said, was an inherent law of nature—to go from indifferent homogeneity
to organized heterogeneity. We might say that this was because Spencer was looking at one part
of an open system, and he would have agreed. It is because one system interacts with another that
they internally differentiate. Thus, the sort of systems theory being developed by Spencer—one
based on the model of individual organisms struggling with their environment—at this point led
away from any close engagement with thermodynamic thinking, and instead, towards a version
of systems theory that would prove compatible with evolutionary biology (which only later was
able to draw on the findings of statistical mechanics [for a review, see [12]]). This was to change
in the first half of the twentieth century, at least among a small group of systems theorists.