bands depend on the number of parallel ducts, the cross-section area of each duct and its
Helmholtz number, ie. the product He=@L/c, where is the angular natural frequency, L
the duct length and c the speed of sound [4,7]. Increasing the number of parallel branches to
form an N-duct HQ tube allows for enhanced attenuation characteristics if appropriate tuning
of branch length and cross-section is achieved. Fundamentally, tuning can be achieved either
thought changing the branch lengths and cross-sections or the branch celerity. However, there
are certain cases where specific constraints render practical solutions impossible. Among several
restrictive factors are the lack of space for very elongated branches when several modern exhaust
pipe or hydraulic circuit applications are considered (e.g. automotive and aerospace industry
applications). Reviewing the definition of the Helmholtz number, it is evident that instead of
increasing the branch length reducing sufficiently the celerity could produce the same effect.
However, considering the Kortweg-Moens approximation [13,14], the material would have to
be very compliant and then structural integrity issues have to be taken into account. This fact
limits the available options regarding tube materials when for example high pressure hydraulics
are considered or extensive hosing effects might manifest.

A different approach could be to enhance reflection characteristics of the HQ tube by
introducing modulated branches. A very recent study [15] introduces the concept of the Virtual
HQ tube. In the Virtual HQ tube, a periodic array of identical resonators is embedded in
one of the branches. This approach has been found in [15] to exploit periodicity and generate
broadband attenuation, hence leading to very efficient silencers. The basic idea in [15], i.e. to
use the properties of periodicity, is adopted in the present study as well. Only in this case
is the pipe stiffness or thickness properties vary periodically. Of course, modulations of pipe
stiffness or thickness can produce enhanced transmission loss even when a single pipe is used
[16,17]. A key hypothesis of the present study is that synergies between pipe modulation