correlated. In particular, the correlations C for So,1,2 approach 1, whereas those for $3 approach —1.
This is the signature that one mode is the time reverse of the other (cf. equation (4.1)). At the
bandedge itself, the lower and upper modes have the same frequency and are each other’s time-
reversals. In particular, note that having degenerate modes lifts the condition that $3 =0 and
allows the existence of chirality, even in the standing wave with vg = 0. Observing the chirality of
these two modes is instructive; in the regions where one is left handed the other is right handed
and vice versa (figure 3d).3

Importantly though, using the C-points present in the glide waveguide at vg = 0 will not result
in unidirectional emission dependent on spin. Nature conspires against the use of the C-points
present at the bandedge: whereas in the W1 waveguide the left- and right-handed C-points
approached each other in position and annihilated at the bandedge, in the glide waveguide :
they approach in frequency and annihilate at the bandedge. This unfortunate fact is caused [=
by the multi-mode nature of the waveguide at the bandedge. The two degenerate modes have 23
oppositely handed C-points at identical locations and frequencies. For example, at the location
of a right-handed C-point in the lower mode, there will be a left-handed C-point in the upper mea)
mode with the same frequency and group velocity. Thus a right-handed circular dipole (such as a :
spin-down electron transitioning to the ground state in a quantum dot) placed at this location will a]
only emit light into the forwards direction of the upper mode. However, it will also emit an equal DNS
power into the backwards direction of the lower mode, resulting in no overall directionality. iG

Before proceeding further, it will be useful to introduce the directionality, —1 < n < +1, whichis D&
defined as the difference between how much power is emitted by a right-handed circular-dipole- .
like emitter into the forwards and backwards waveguide modes, normalized by the total power
emitted into the waveguide. Values of n = +1 indicate full emission into one direction or the other