role these lipids may play is in adhesion directly. It is unclear how a soft, wearable, fat-like
layer helps adhesion, and rather, it intuitively seems like it would impede it. As emphasized
in the Introduction, however, it is our common misconception to assume that all adaptations in
biological systems like the gecko are related to a single function, without considering system-level
concerns and trade-offs [49]. For instance, if the setae were completely hydrophilic and lacked this
lipid layer they may be more adhesive, increasing the likelihood of self-adhesion and fouling.
Directionality of the setae and the intimate contact made by spatular tips have been shown to be
imperative for successful attachment [30,31,50]; thus, reducing self-adhesion or adhesion of dirt
by adding a non-sticky lipid surface layer could benefit the gecko at a system level. Furthermore,
consider the repeated use of the setae. Geckos shed their skin and replace the adhesive setae
every few months. Until then, the setae are used over and over ona variety of surfaces. Of all the
microscopic images of gecko setae in the literature, none document obvious evidence of wear. In
fact, the only wear appears to be in the form of the lipid gecko footprint [15]. Perhaps, it is the
wear of this fine lipid layer that protects the larger setal structure against constant abrasion in the
gecko’s natural environment. This again points to a system-level requirement. With regards to
skin, lipids have been shown to help other reptiles, like snakes, avoid water loss [51]. The lipids
act like a protective barrier in the skin to prevent desiccation, which is imperative to the survival


of reptiles. In this instance, lipids associated with reptile skin may be a by-product of a separate
system-level requirement. It is important to note however that desiccation preventative lipids are
located in the mesos layer of the epidermis, rather than the surface, and skin surfaces like the
gecko tail do not leave behind detectable lipid residue [40].

Finally, consider that many species of gecko live in the tropics, which can have significant