smooth sliding on steel surfaces at room temperature is warmed to a certain temperature (usually between
40 and 80° C) the motion changes from continuous sliding to stick-slips; on raising the temperature
further the stick-slips gradually increase in size. Provided the heating has not been sufficient to cause
appreciable oxidation of the lubricant, these changes are completely reversible on cooling and are
probably due to a desorption or disorientation of the lubricant film as a result of the increasing tempera-
ture. It is important to note that these results indicate that a lubricant which behaves well at room
temperatures (that is, which gives smooth sliding) may have poor boundary lubricating properties at
quite moderate temperatures of the running parts.

Experiments have also been carried out with pure fatty acids and similar effects have been observed,
though the temperature at which stick-slips commence is appreciably higher than the values given
above and increases with the chain length of the acid. The temperature at which this reversible effect
occurs is in fact a characteristic of the particular oil used and, as Tabor has suggested, it probably
provides a measure of the strength with which the lubricant film adheres to the metal surface; the
higher the transition temperature, the more strongly is the film adsorbed on the surface. It would thus
be possible by such means to compare different lubricants in this respect. This opens up a new field of
investigation.

} A preliminary investigation of the detailed physical processes that occur during the sliding of
rigidly-held lubricated metallic surfaces has recently been carried out using a cathode ray oscillograph.
In the presence of a mineral oil very rapid and violent fluctuations in both the surface temperature and
the contact resistance were observed, often in periods of less than 1/30,000 sec.; with oleic acid some
fluctuations again occurred, but to a less marked extent. These are, in fact, the results that would be
expected if the motion were smoother with oleic acid than with the mineral oil.
