the principal extensions and curvatures of the shell, employing the classical linear stress-
strain relations to describe the elastic properties of the material. For a highly elastic in-
compressible material, however, the expressions given by Rivlin (1948 b) for the components
of stress in terms of the principal extension ratios and the stored-energy function for the
material have to be employed in order to determine the stress-resultants.

In this paper, the inflation of a uniform circular diaphragm of incompressible highly
elastic material, isotropic in its undeformed state, and clamped round its circumference,
by a uniform pressure applied to one of its major surfaces is studied in detail. In this problem,
as in many others involving the deformation of highly elastic shells, the effects of the stress-
couples can be neglected in comparison with those of the stress-resultants, since the radii
of curvature of the deformed shell are large compared with its thickness and the principal
extension ratios are also large. This, and the fact that cylindrical symmetry is preserved in
the deformation, produces a considerable simplification in the problem.

It has not been found possible to determine analytically the state of deformation of the
diaphragm resulting from the application of a specified inflating pressure. However, if
the state of deformation, defined by the extension ratios and curvatures, is known at a point
of the diaphragm, then the manner in which these are changing at that point can be found
analytically, for any form of the stored-energy function. This enables us to calculate the
state of deformation at all points of the inflated diaphragm, by numerical integration, for
any specified state of deformation at the pole. From the latter, the corresponding value of
the inflating pressure is, of course, determined. The numerical integration may be carried
out for any form of the stored-energy function W, but the labour of computation is greatly
reduced if the Mooney form is employed. This is given by