mammalian body. There is already some evidence to show that they are in part excreted
in the form of their 4’-hydroxy derivatives (private communication from Dr L. A. Elson),
a result hardly to be expected when another substituent is already present in the required
position. Assuming that hydroxylation, i.e. biological oxidation of the 4’ carbon atom,
occurs by an electrophilic reaction, it should be favoured by factors causing an increased
electron density at that point, and on the whole this is supported by the observed effects of
substituents introduced into the stilbene molecule. The comparison already recorded
between 1-(4'-dimethylaminopheny])-2-(1’-naphthyl)ethylene and the corresponding 2’-
naphthyl compound (table 8), is of special interest for the question of 4’-substitution. The
latter compound has no free 4’-position in the strict sense, but it is well known that in
naphthalene compounds the activation of an g-position can be relayed to other atoms in the
adjoining ring. From this point of view it is therefore noteworthy that the 2’-naphthyl
compound does in fact possess slight activity, although this is of course far short of that
exhibited by the 1’-isomeride. So far as concerns the biological activity of halogen derivatives,
a remarkable general similarity was noted between 2’-chloro- and 2’-methyl-4-dimethyl-
aminostilbenes; while the inductive effects of chlorine and methy] substituents are opposed,
it is recognized that the introduction of these groups often confers similar pharmacological
properties, owing no doubt to their comparable volume (cf. Pauling 1946). The abrupt
disappearance of activity observed on passing from the 2’-chloro- to the 2’-bromo- com-
pound is at present unexplained; it is not apparent in the 3’-position, since 3’-bromo-
4-dimethylaminostilbene is highly active (see table 7).*

The assumptions regarding the structural features required for the characteristic bio-
logical behaviour of the stilbenes lend themselves to examination by physical methods. In
the following section an account is given of such an examination by means of ultra-violet