passing along the layer of constant velocity which it was concluded must exist below the
region where there was a linear increase of velocity with depth. It was fortuitous that
a shot was fired exactly at the distance required to obtain this point, since if it had been
half a mile in either direction no first arrival would have been obtained. It was also
fortuitous that the water depth was small enough to permit this line on the time-distance
curve to pass below the intersection of the lines representing the direct sound and the
higher velocity layers lying below the sediments. If from this point a line is drawn through
the points near the cusp of the time-distance curve of the multiple refractions (figure 7)
its slope is such that, as would be required theoretically, it is tangential to the calculated
curves. The position of this line is also such that it passes above the first arrival points
obtained from the shots at the greater distances. If our interpretation that the velocity
gradient ceased at a velocity equivalent to that near the cusp of the curve were wrong,
and, in fact, the velocity increased to a higher value before reaching its limit, then it
would be necessary to draw a line of smaller slope passing through a point near the cusp.
This line would then pass below the first arrivals obtained at the greater ranges which
would not be allowable. It would also not be possible, on this basis, to explain the single
point obtained at the shortest range. We have, therefore, from the first arrivals good
confirmation of the result obtained solely from consideration of the multiple refractions.

The slope of the line passing through this point and which is tangential to the multiple-
refraction curve has the value of 0-60+0-01, the error being estimated from the error
in the observation of the first arrival and also from the error which arises in determining
the best tangent through this point to the curve on which the multiple refractions lie.
The point on the curve calculated for a constant velocity gradient of 2-5/s, where the
slope is 0:60, lies at a greater range than the cusp of the curve and on its upper limb.