cylindrical vessel (a dishpan) of 15cm radius to a depth of 2cm, and the effects of heating
the horizontal base of the vessel near the side have been observed for various rates of
rotation of the vessel about its central axis. The heating is approximately symmetrical
about the central point of the base, and the difference in temperature between the outer
portions of the fluid and the central portions is usually between 5 and 15° C. Two principal
régimes have emerged which are referred to as the low- and high-rotation cases. In the
former the motion at the free surface is predominantly symmetrical about the central axis,
and any variations in the transverse direction are small. In the latter, the motion is markedly
asymmetrical in character, consisting of distinct finite-amplitude wave patterns in the
transverse direction. With a fixed heating system at the base the transition from the low-
to the high-rotation régimes occurs when the angular velocity of the dishpan attains a
certain critical value and the change in the nature of the flow takes place rapidly at this
value. The experiment acquires considerable interest, due to the fact that there are marked
similarities between the high-rotation régime and observed flows of the earth’s atmosphere.

In the present paper only the symmetrical forced flow will be discussed. It is convenient
first of all to deal with the problem of zero rotation in order to establish a method of attack
which exploits the fact that the fluid is shallow. We consider next the forced motion when
the dishpan rotates, in order to obtain the essential mechanism of the low-rotation régime.
This is first done approximately by omitting all the non-linear terms. These terms are shown
to be small when the temperature difference between the axis and the rim is sufficiently
small. Subsequently the non-linear terms are incorporated by using the method of small
parameters.

It will be assumed throughout that the flow of the liquid relative to the dishpan is small