that in the past use has had to be made of Stokes’s well-known theory of progressive waves,
with the result that the pressure variations on the bottom, at any rate in deep water, appeared
far too small (Gutenberg 1931; Whipple & Lee 1935). The physical reasons for this are
twofold. In the first place the pressure variations in a progressive wave decrease exponentially
with depth, and secondly the wave-length of gravity waves is extremely small compared to
that of seismic waves, so that the contributions from different part of the sea bed effectively
cancel one another. Banerji (1930) sought a way out by supposing that the water motion is
not strictly irrotational, but his analysis cannot be defended. It was also shown (Whipple &
Lee 1935) that the compressibility of the water makes little difference to the general result.}
A further difficulty was that investigation of the wave periods usually showed them to be
considerably greater than the corresponding periods of the microseisms. Bernard’s careful
studies of the periods of swell off the coast of Morocco (1937, 1941 4, 4) indicated that they
were in fact about twice the microseism periods. In a comparison of the Kew seismograms
with records of waves taken at Perranporth in Cornwall, Deacon (1947) independently
arrived at the same conclusion.

It has been pointed out (Longuet-Higgins & Ursell 1948) that Miche, in a theoretical
study of wave motion (1944), discovered that the mean pressure on the bottom beneath a
train of standing waves is not constant, as in a progressive wave, but fluctuates with an
amplitude independent of the depth and proportional to the square of the wave height. This
oscillation is of precisely the type required for the generation of ground movement, for not
only is it unattenuated with depth (and is therefore the most important term at depths greater
than about half a wave-length) but also, being in phase at all points of the bottom, it is suit-
able for producing long seismic waves. A further remarkable fact is that the frequency of
this pressure variation is twice the fundamental frequency of the waves. Owing to the cus-