interpretation of the results for the other metals is less complete, mainly because of experimental
difficulties specific to each metal which hindered a complete investigation.
Comparison with the theory shows that the effect can be explained if it is assumed that only
a very small number of free electrons (ranging from 10~* to 10- per atom) are effective and that
these electrons have effective masses which are small (usually of order of one-tenth of an electron
mass) and depend on the direction of the applied magnetic field. The period, amplitude and
temperature-dependence of the oscillations vary considerably from one metal to another, depending
on the particular values of these parameters. These ‘effective’ electrons are presumably those
which overflow at certain places in wave-number space from one Brillouin zone into another, or
the ‘holes’ left behind in nearly full zones, and their small effective masses are associated with
large curvature of the Fermi surface in these regions. The theory assumes that the relevant parts
of the Fermi surface can be represented by ellipsoids, and for some of the metals the form of these
ellipsoids can be worked out in detail on the basis of the experimental results. The fact that the
de Haas-van Alphen effect has not been found in monovalent metals such as copper, silver and gold
up to fields of 15800G, supports this interpretation, since the Fermi surface in these metals does not
cross Brillouin zone boundaries. Although the oscillatory variation of anisotropy was the main
object of the investigation, some new data on the steady part of the anisotropy were also obtained,
and where a detailed comparison with theory was possible it was found that the free electrons
effective in producing the oscillations could account only partly for the observed steady anisotropy.
An important feature of the comparison with theory is that in order to explain both the tem-
perature and field variation of the amplitude of the oscillations consistently it is necessary to add
to Landau’s formula an exponential ‘damping factor’ involving a parameter x which has the dimen-
sions of temperature and is usually of order 1°K. The effect of this ‘damping’ is equivalent to that
of raising the temperature by x°K. Dingle has shown that just such a factor is to be expected if
broadening of the energy levels due either to collisions or other causes is taken into account. Ex-