[15] summarizes the planning and regulatory tasks associated with changing energy supply
infrastructures; Fouquet & Pearson [16] find that a low carbon energy transition may not deliver
the kinds of benefits to producers and consumers that had promoted prior energy system
transitions and Sathre & Masanet [17] review carbon capture and storage technology and lay
out clearly the expense of committing perhaps one-third of the output of a fossil-fuelled power
station to drive the process. There are instances where such ‘challenges’ can generate the core of a
TV proposition. However, the disconnect between viewer and subject within such systems-rooted
issues tends to be significant, even before the weighing of expert evidence on any particular
question is considered. Hence even where the proposed strategies are impressive and wide
ranging in scale, and where publics/audiences/voters will not be challenged in terms of impacts


on daily life, it remains difficult for specialist factual media to derive more than an occasional story
that can make it through the intensely competitive process of winning a broadcast commission.
But having noted the limits of process efficiency Allwood et al. [14] go further to present
what is arguably an even more challenging theme for mass-audience broadcasting. They
propose the need for ‘reduction in overall volumes of material production’. As they unpack
their argument they present a series of often-interacting design, engineering, systems analysis,
investment (corporate and consumer), trade and emissions-accounting considerations that all
add up to a very complex story. Complexity is usually held to be an obstacle to broadcast
media commissioning and production, Furthermore this systemic complexity is occurring within
unfamiliar temporalities. These include questions such as accounting for responsibilities for

historic high emissions in currently energy-efficient economies or the ‘offshored’ emissions of : 8
those same, now largely post-industrial societies. These are stories about politics. But material a