sequently as these former land-masses are approached, the lower beds of the Millstone Grit
disappear and a complete succession is only to be expected where deposition was continuous
from the Lower Carboniferous into Millstone Grit times. The present outcrop covers a
considerable area of the southern Pennines and attains its greatest thickness in the mid-
Pennine area, where it is of the order of 4500 ft. thick and conformable on the Lower Carboni-
ferous. There is a thinning by alternation of the grit bands as the series is traced to the south,
though the upper grits retain their thickness as far as North Derbyshire. Here the Millstone
Grit is about 3000 ft. thick, but it appears that some of the lower beds are missing. To the
west of the Pennines at Formby near Southport, a borehole proved over 1000 ft. of Millstone
Grit of marine facies, the evidence suggesting that originally at least 6000 ft. were present,
much having been removed by post-Carboniferous erosion (Kent 1948).

These and similar facts make it appear likely that the Lower Carboniferous land surface
sloped down from the North Derbyshire area to a basin of deposition occupying the Lanca-
shire and Cheshire plain. It is probable therefore that sedimentation was continuous here
from the Lower Carboniferous into the Millstone Grit, and that the thickness of sediments
deposited in the Nook and Astley Green region was at least as much as is met with in North
Derbyshire; that is to say, it was at least 3000 ft. The beginning of the Lower Carboniferous
period was marked by a gradual marine transgression. However, most of Wales and the
Midlands remained a land area until well on into the Lower Carboniferous, and it seems
possible that the land-mass stretched north as far as Derbyshire, since the oldest Lower
Carboniferous deposits there do not seem to be much earlier than the zone of S, (Cope 1949).
In North Wales the deposits are of the epi-continental sea type, the shoreline lying not far
to the south, as evinced by the fact that the basement beds occupy only the hollows in the
Lower Palaeozoic synclines. In the early part of the Lower Carboniferous the sea was bounded