situations which have been of interest to cognitive scientists, notably corresponding to binary
decisions. We used the eigenstates of the Pauli a, matrix to correspond to the outcomes of a binary
decision of psychological interest. Then, we have a series of key questions: What are meaningful
options for specifying a general Hamiltonian for the evolution of a corresponding state? How


should the state be represented in the first place? In what way could we extend the dynamics so
that a more realistic picture for the influences on the mental state is provided?

Regarding the first question, the Bloch sphere presentation was meant to illustrate that the
evolution of states induced by Hamiltonians can be given geometric interpretation. In particular,
we have argued that, for the initial state |0), evolution of probabilities Prob,(t) depends only
on the polar angle of the vector n defined by the Hamiltonian H=n-o. In view of the fact that
the main features of the probabilistic behaviour are insensitive to the particular distribution
of weights between o, and oy, one may simplify the picture by considering only o, and oy
components in the Hamiltonian. Regarding o, + oz and oy +z, the resulting Hamiltonian mixes
amplitudes across the state, that is, it combines amplitude in each slot of the mental state with
amplitude from other slots. However, ox + oy merely swaps amplitude from one slot to another.
Noting that each Pauli matrix in the Hamiltonian introduces a free parameter, it seems an

appropriately parsimonious approach to not introduce a third Pauli matrix in the specification of : =
the Hamiltonian in the first instance. Relatedly, we simplified the specification of the Hamiltonian, : S
by not including the identity matrix, as it only affects an overall phase in the mental state. Again, : 2
the Bloch sphere presentation illustrates why this is not necessary in simple cases, but note that ae
this would play a role, for example, in the case of superpositions in the unknown case in C?. : _