that several lines of evidence now suggest is also susceptible to basal melt by ocean heat flux [24].
No one is claiming that the melting of EAIS has already become irreversible. But consider the
following scenario—this is not a prediction, simply a hypothetical scenario to illustrate why there
is less to negative emissions than meets the eye. Suppose that the atmospheric concentration of
CO) continues to rise more than it would need to rise because of a policy choice to gamble on
less ambitious mitigation. Later, this ‘overshoot’ in CO? is reduced through negative emissions.
But during the temporary period of ‘overshoot’ the additional atmospheric accumulation drives
an increase in the temperature of the ocean water that bathes the Totten Glacier at its grounding
line sufficient to precipitate the start of irreversible melting. The Totten Glacier contains roughly
the same amount of water as the entire WAIS—equivalent to at least 3.5m of global sea-
level rise—so adding the melting of Totten to the melting of WAIS would double the amount
of sea-level rise globally to 7m. That sea-level rise would of course endure for millennia—
from a human perspective, forever. This despite the fact that the amount of atmospheric


CO» that launched the melting was ‘corrected’ later by negative emissions. Can we count on
nothing like this hypothetical scenario happening? That is the gamble taken by less ambitious
mitigation.

In the current context, what is particularly striking about this scenario is the following. Prior
to any awareness of the apparent possibility of ‘recovery’ from emissions ‘overshoot’ through
negative emissions, certain generations might have decided to be less ambitious about mitigation
simply out of preoccupation with themselves and a simple desire to avoid expense and disruption
and to continue to enjoy convenience. We saw in the first section that this would have amounted
in fact to those generations taking a gamble in which they themselves can only gain and future