water, full and change, at noon, and the amplitude at springs is 120 em. The flood
tide outside the bar, in water about 20 fathoms deep, sets south-east from three hours
before high water till three hours after it, so that it reaches its maximum speed of
1$ knots. at high water. At Penang, near the opposite shore, it is high water at
Oh. 21m. and the current reaches its maximum velocity of 2} knots an hour before
high water. As the strait is everywhere narrow in comparison to its length, and as
these observations do not seem to have been taken on shoals, they are probably
representative of that part of the strait. The amplitude of the tide at Penang is
100 cm. We can therefore take the average height of the tide along the section from
Kumpei to Penang to be 110 cm., and the average current when flowing strongest to
be 2 knots, reaching its maximum half an hour before high water. The average
depth is about 30 fathoms. A modification must be made in the previous procedure
to allow for the fact that the current flows along the strait, which is not quite at
right angles to the line of the section ; therefore, in finding the energy crossing the
section, we must take for the length of the section, not the distance from Kumpei to
Penang, but the projection of this on a line perpendicular to the strait, which is
230 km. The flux of energy is hence found to be, on an average, 7x10" ergs per
second. We also require the amount of this energy that emerges through the narrow
part of the strait. Off Cape Medang, which marks the narrowest point of the strait
away from the immediate neighbourhood of Singapore, the amplitude of the tide is
120 cm., high water occurring at 6h. 30m. The tidal current flows at an average
speed of about 24 knots. There is no record of the tidal phenomena just opposite,
but in Malacca Road it is high water at 7h. 30m., with an amplitude of 165 em. ; the
current there reaches its maximum of 2 knots an hour before high water. At the
eastern end of South Sands, which lies near the Malay side, north-west of Cape