up to values of v/a as great as 0-7, there is no serious departure from the square law once a certain
minimum velocity is exceeded, above which the ordinary viscosity effects become unimportant; this
appears, from all the evidence, to be the case also for shells, the minimum velocity being of the order of
50 f.s. As velocities of less than 100 f.s. may be ignored in ballistics, it is therefore customary to assume
that the drag obeys the square law exactly for all velocities less than about 0-7a, For all such velocities
the stream lines of the flow will remain nearly unaltered and the motion will be dynamically similar.

Above this velocity (0°7a.) the effects of the compressibility of the air become rapidly of great
importance, and the whole nature of the air-flow changes as u, the velocity of sound, is reached and
exceeded, These effects are represented by the variation of /, as a function of v/a. A good typical curve
showing this variation is given by CRANZ.¢ Another example will be found in fig. 4.

We have so far ignored the fact that the shell is actually spinning about its axis of symmetry. There
is no evidence to show that the drag, in the case of symmetry, is appreciably affected by the spin, and its
neglect is probably justified.

A more important question is the legitimacy of assuming, as we have tacitly done in (1.001), that the
drag does not depend appreciably on the acceleration of the shell. With regard to the acceleration at low
velocities, it is known that the effect of the air is to increase the virtual mass of any body by an amount
of the order of the mass of air displaced. This is an increase of the order of 1 part in 2000, and is
entirely negligible. At higher velocities, and on the general question, direct experimental evidence is
_unfortunately lacking. It is, however, difficult to see, by theoretical reasoning, how the past history of
the shell can have any /arge effect, and there is sufficient general experimental evidence that (1.001) is, on
the average, an adequate representation of the drag in the case of symmetry to be certain that the past
history is of little importance, except conceivably for a very limited range of velocities, for example, in the