in general, lose certainty at finer spatial scales. As such, these data tends not to be tailored for :
local usage. However, Dickson et al. [9] have suggested that downscaling can provide a general [3
indication of climate risks at the city level. And Viguié et al. [25] have used data modelling to 1B
downscale socio-economic growth at the city level; the intention being to inform policy-makers .
in climate change decision-making. Downscaling also continues at the city and institutional level
despite concerns with uncertainty. For example, downscaling has been used by the Asian Cities
Climate Change Resilience Network in preparing resilience strategies for Indian cities [24].

However, projections of future weather patterns from different climate models disagree, and
these disagreements tend to be greatest for the kind of information that is most relevant for
local climate risk assessment (e.g. short- or medium-term highly localized projections) [26,27]
Socio-economic trends, which will influence the impact of climate change on urban areas, also
suffer from inherent uncertainty [28]. In fact, the climate dimension just adds to the uncertainty
derived from the wide range of socio-economic and environmental factors considered, often
referred to as the ‘cascade of uncertainty’ or the ‘uncertainty explosion’ [29-31]. Jongman et al. [32]
showed that vulnerability is an important driver of disaster damage and annual hazard variability
alone only explains a minor part of the observed variation in the recorded damage. However,
there is often scarcity of reliable data for predicting future vulnerability, as it tends to be highly
endogenous to the behaviour of private and public agents before, during and immediately after a
disaster [6,33].

The inherent uncertainty that comes with climate risk assessments creates a dilemma for local
decision-makers who need to incorporate climate change into their plans. Natural responses
to this dilemma might be (i) taking a central or ‘most likely’ scenario and plan accordingly or
(ii) postponing decisions until better information arrives. Unfortunately, ignoring uncertainty by