the origin term of the diffuse sequence. They point, as we have seen, to the existence
of several displaced, or parallel, sets of diffuse series. It is possible to show definitely
that these exist, even if there be some uncertainty as to the lines occupying the
position of D,, (1). In the normal case with a single diffuse series, the D,, (1) is always
the strongest line of the series. Also in the normal type the D limit is the same as that of
S—here 51025°29+¢ When however displacement occurs, the energy of a single line is
dispersed amongst several others, and a line corresponding to the normal may be weak, or
even too faint to have been observed. Asa matter of experience also it is found that the
lines of low order (m = 1, 2...) are subject to these displacements ina much greater
degree than those for higher orders of m. Now there are a number of lines, which by
their position and absence of », separations to stronger lines have the appearance of
being D,, (1) lines. If they are, their mantissee must differ from multiples of A, (in
the present case 80A,) by multiples of the oun. The fact that they may do so does not
of course prove that they are D,, lines. If they do not do so it proves that they are
not. They may however in the latter case belong to a displaced series, satisfying the
multiple law when the proper displaced limit (yé,)S (0) is employed. This gives us a
method of testing as to what displacement a given line may correspond. If our
calculus were already fully established the next step would be to apply this test to
the above lines. But in reality we are testing our calculus to see if it can be firmly
established, and our immediate aim must be to obtain independent evidence for the
existence of parallel series. For this immediate purpose it will only be necessary to
apply the test to two lines, the general question being postponed for the present.

In the first attempt at arranging the D,, series the strong lines (8) 20559°08 and
(10) 88366°36 were taken for m= 1, 2, and the formula calculated with the limit