of them focus on improvements in temporal signal-to-noise ratio (tSNR) or reproducibility of
FC maps. Yet, no study has explored how and to what extent these confounds affect sparse
spontaneous events. As proposed in previous studies, the spontaneous BOLD point process
events in resting-state f{MRI are assumed to be induced by these spontaneous neural events. Then,
it would be possible to retrieve the corresponding haemodynamic response function (HRF) of the
spontaneous neural event at rest [15,16]. Apart from the variation of amplitude in BOLD signal,
additional temporal characteristics of the haemodynamic response, not available from tSNR and
FC maps such as time to peak, could be revealed by statistical analysis of spontaneous point
process HRF.

Unlike thermal noise, physiological fluctuations can introduce fluctuations in the fMRI signal
that are uncoupled from neural activity, and are among the most important confounds in BOLD
signal change [17]. In fact, cardiac mechanisms include changes in cerebral blood flow/volume
and arterial pulsatility [18]. Respiration effects include changes in Bo and arterial CO2 partial
pressure [19]. Although cardiac and respiratory cycles have relatively high frequencies in contrast
to the typical low-frequency (less than 0.1Hz) BOLD fluctuations, aliasing of physiological
components to lower frequency range will inevitably occur owing to lower sampling rate in
BOLD fMRI than cardiac and respiratory cycles [20]. Recent studies have shown that these
nuisance confounds can significantly alter FC maps of the intrinsic brain networks, such as
the default mode network [21-23]. Nonetheless, ample evidence has been collected to support
that resting-state FC does have a neuronal underpinning and cannot purely be the result of
physiological noise. To date, it is still not clear to what extent the physiological confounds affect
the haemodynamic response retrieved by PPA, and more information on this would be helpful
for understanding the physiological foundation of functional coupling among brain regions [24].
