
stimuli will only reverse one another's effects if applied in a certain order. Thus the
latent image due to friction or pressure is obliterated by any other known form of
stimulus such as X-rays or light. Next in order of stability is the latent image due
to X-rays. Light action will remove this. A very brief light shock or flash comes
next. This can only be reversed by a long continued light stimulus. In this list the
stimulus which produces the less stable system is unable to reverse the more stable
effects.* It does not appear improbable that in the mineral the effects of the a-ray
may correspond in character to photographic latent effects, that is, to effects of an
incomplete character, no definite molecular rearrangement being accomplished as the
result of ionisation and liberation of 8-particles. There is not wanting independent
evidence that this is what actually happens. It is known that the halo can be
obliterated by heating the mica. This fact led the earlier observers into the curious
notion that the halo was an “ organic” effect. Presumably the idea was that it was
a coloration due to carbon which became oxidised upon heat being applied. If the
halo was due to the formation of a stable oxide of iron it seems certain that even a
red heat would not affect it. And it is said that some haloes—very strongly
developed ones—refuse to be dissipated by heat. Here we have what I think may
be described as a reversing effect due to heat. Again the halo shows by its optical
behaviour that it is in crystallographic continuity with the rest of the mica. There
has apparently been some intermolecular disturbance or strain set up by the ionising
actions generating the halo, so that the light absorption towards a polarised ray is
increased, But it continues to exhibit the optical properties of the original medium,
.and, presumably, retains much of the original structure. I shall assume that just as
it can be reversed by intense heat so the coloration of the halo may be obliterated or