from the ground which otherwise interfered with the reading of the scales. The pressure
connections having been made and the extensometers mounted, the whole apparatus
was allowed to stand for several hours, generally overnight, in order to equalise the
temperature. The tests were carried out in a room in which temperature variations
were extremely slight ; changes of temperature, however, which are the same in the
cylinder and extensometer are without influence, as those parts of the extensometers
which by expansion or contraction might affect the readings were made of steel.

The pressure was raised by intervals of 1 ton/square inch until within about 1 ton/
square inch of the yield point, readings being taken on both extensometers. Thereafter
the intervals were 0-1 ton/square inch, until the yield point was reached. The scale
readings of both extensometers were very closely proportional to the pressure during
this period. The yield point was noticed at once, and unmistakably, by the fact that
either both extensometers would record, for the last increment of pressure, a greatly
increased extension or, as was more usually the case, one extensometer would record
an increased extension while the other registered a diminution. Some time elapsed
before the readings became stationary after the yield point was passed, but after a
period of 15 minutes the further movement was negligible in amount. The pressure
was then increased by stages of from } to $ ton/square inch and the readings of each
extensometer taken after 15 minutes had elapsed. The curves obtained by plotting
the individual extensometer readings (as the ratio of the reading to that at the yield
point) against the corresponding pressure ratio were irregular, sometimes diverging and
sometimes crossing each other. In the case of the thinner cylinders of steel A one curve
turned sharply back from the yield point and continued in a retrograde direction. In
most cases, however, when the mean of the two readings was taken, a smooth and