obtained by the supposition that each layer in turn yielded at a stress less than that
in the surface layer when the process began. But it must be remembered that the
uncertainty regarding the distribution of axial stress in this case may be sufficient to
account fully for the differences observed. The general consistency of the results
indicates that the stress distribution during overstrain is represented fairly accurately
by the diagrams shown in figs. 7 and 13.

Although the main purpose of this paper has been to record the results of experi-
ments, it is desirable to form, if possible, some picture of the action taking place within
a crystal grain which would be consistent with the externally observed phenomenon of
stress reduction. It is well known that the plastic deformation of metals is accompanied
by slip over certain planes within the crystal grains. The nature and mechanism of
the slip is imperfectly understood, but the fact of its existence has received abundant
confirmation since the pioneer work of Ew1ne and Rosennatn was carried out. It
was formerly thought that the erystal structure within the grain offered a high resistance
to slip, and that the elastic strength as externally observed could be attributed to this
resistance. The knowledge which has since become available regarding the properties
of large single crystals has necessitated a revision of this view. It is now known that
the resistance which the undisturbed crystal lattice itself offers to slip, at all events
in alarge crystal, is very small. According to the experiments of Epwarps and Pret*
the elastic limit of a single crystal of iron is reached at a stress below 24 tons per square
inch. It has become necessary therefore to regard the crystal boundary as the main
source of elastic strength in an aggregate. The structure at the surface of separation
of two adjacent crystal grains is a matter of controversy. According to one theory,
the atomic arrangement in the boundary material is of an irregular character in which