80 that the dorsal gastric chamber contains no muscles, while the ventral chamber
Spntains them on both sides. Thus we observe a marked bilateral 8ymmetry in the
Hrangement of all the internal organs, which is further emphasized in the dorso-
Zentral elongation of the mouth and cesophagus. This symmetry is expressed also in
He arrangement of the calyx-teeth, which are conical projections from the walls of the
Sstric chambers at the level of the upper face of the disc. The ventral chamber is
Sbways destitute of a tooth, the dorsal chamber always bears one, and the lateral teeth
Fe symmetrically arranged with respect to the dorso-ventral axis.
'Z Besides the large sexual polyps there are other forms known as the rudimentary
#ddividuals, or in K6L1IKER's terminology, as the zooids. These are microscopic in size,
_ no tentacles, no mesenterial filaments, no reproductive organs, and commonly
-znly two calyx-teeth—those, namely, on the ventro-lateral chambers. The zooids
Bossess, in fact, only septa, mouth, and cesophagus, the latter being richly ciliated
Yithin. Two distinet forms of zooids exist. One of these is represented by a single
arge zooid, placed near the middle of the disc on the dorsal side, and provided with
Ho full number of calyx-teeth. Tt is for the most part through the mouth of this
=oid that the water is discharged which circulates through the cavities of the colony.
or this reason I shall call it the exhalent 2ooid, a name which seems preferable to
SOLLIKER'S term © Haupt zooid.” The other zooids are arranged in groups or clusters
Jn the dorsal sides of the polyp-cells in the median line ; there are usually four such
20M on each cell. It is their function to draw water from the exterior into the
vities of the colony, as may be shown by adding finely pulverised carmine to the
Rater of the aquarium. Minute but powerful currents may thus be seen setting into
the open mouths of the zooids. The zooids, like the sexual polyps, exhibit a marked
bilateral symmetry in the disposition of all their organs ; the mouth and cesophagus