was loaded with 13 kilos., then unloaded, and during the next loading the observa-
tions shown in fig. 32 were taken. The form of the curve is similar to that given by
Conn for hard wire, except that the loop which hysteresis causes ab the upper end
appears to have escaped his notice. The general result is that loading has a positive
effect ; and, further, that a mechanically hard wire behaves very similarly to a strongly
magnetised but much softer wire. That it is 80 will be seen by comparing fig. 32,
where the wire is hard-drawn but not magnetised, with figs. 17 and 18, Plate 22, where
the wire was only slightly hardened by stretching, but was strongly magnetised.
Obviously we should expect that iron in a state of hardness intermediate between
these would give results resembling those of figs. 15 and 16, which refer to moderately
magnetised wires ; and this corollary has been verified by experiment with a piece of
the same iron which was annealed, but much less perfectly than in the former experi-
ments, and was then loaded and unloaded without wagnetisation. In fact the geries
of figures 14 to 18, which exhibit the effects of various degrees of magnetisation; serve
also to illustrate how under various degrees of mechanical hardness there is continuity
in form between the familiar type of fig. 4, or 12, or 14, or 21, and the very different
looking curve of fig. 32, The phrase, © mechanical hardness,” must be understood here
to refer only to the kind of hardness which comes of permanent strain, such as stretch-
ing or wire-drawing ; for the writer has made no experiments to determine whether
a like relation holds between the various degrees of hardness which can be given to
steel by variations of temper apart altogether from strains. Hardness of the latter
kind may confidently be expected to reduce hysteresis, which has now been shown to
be reduced by the presence of load, by the existence of a magnetic condition, and by
the existence of a state of non-elastic strain or © set.”
