fenestra ovalis is filled by the stapes (ﬆ.), the fenestra rotunda (:r.) is een
on both sides.

In the lateral view (fig. 3), the supracceipital, supra-auditory, and posterior
orbitosphenoidal tracts of cartilage (s.0., 8.4.c., 0.8.), are 8een to be confluent, and the
whole hind part of the skull, strongly bent downwards, is composed either of cartilage
or of cartilage-boue (endostosis). Over the foramen magnum the supraoccipital is
large, both high and wide, and the exoccipital (e.o.), is seen to be wider than the
lower view would indicate. There is no appearance of bone in the auditory capsule,
except over the front part of the anterior canal '(a.s.c.), and the sinus-opening ; the
labyrinthic part of the capsule is still cartilaginous. The oblique oblongo-crescentic
tract of bone seen, already, in the sphenotic and pterotic regions, is the first of the two
bony periotics formed in the auditory capsule in this type ; nobwithstanding its
growth along the crest of the capsule, and the fact that it does not help to enclose
the labyrinth, T consider it to be the © prootic,” and the other, formed afterwards,

the © opisthotic.”


182 MR. W. K. PARKER ON THE STRUCTURE AND

The tilting of the canal-region of the capsule is well shown in the side view ; the
fore part of the large anterior canal (4.8.c.) Jeans backwards, under the prootic bone
(pr.9.), ab a right angle to the 8quamosal bone ; its hinder half, below the sinus-canal
is parallel with the outer edge of the occipital roof. The posterior canal (p.s.c.),
which joins the anterior, is parallel with the general direction of the occipital condyle,
and the horizontal canal (þ.s.c.) runs downwards and backwards, from the end of the
8quamosal to the exit of the facial nerve (VIL.).

But for the ossifications of the hind skull, and the continuation of the nasal roof
cartilages to the end of the intertrabecular beam—a peculiarly yaluable Mammalian
diagnostic—the upper view of the skull (fig. 4) might have seemed to belong to