outwork.

= For such a snout the maxillary nerve (V?.) has to be very large, for the lips are

thick, and the vibriss@ well developed ; the canal, therefore, is very large, and it is

= perfected by the maxillary, which has a stump of bone in the jugal region ; the canal-
= wall for the infraorbital nerve is itself perforated. The lachrymal (7) is melted into

5 the fore edge of the maxillary, and the sphenoidal wings, front and hinder (0.s., o.s.),

2 are all confluent with the overlying membrane-bones ; s0 also are the palatine bony

Z tracts with the bones above them. In the inner and lower face of the undefined orbit,

Z the sphenoidal fissure (IT., Vb2.) is geen as a large channel, opening obliquely ; this is

Z queto the fact that the alisphenoid (al.s.) embraces the orbitosphenoid (0.5.), growing

g freely outside it.

p= The eurious, low-lying, oblong squamosal (s9.) opens in front as two short blunb

S blades, which seem to bite the outspread alisphenoid ; this is due to the fact that,

Y whilst the jugal process is aborted and has no jugal bone to lie upon, the condyle

S (glenoid cavity) has become snbdivided into two tracts of articular cartilage, one

& above and one below. Thus the two-faced condyloid head of the lower jaw

(tigs. 3, 4, cd.p.) is really held between the two blades of the squamosal. In the

crescentic hollow behind these blades the normal pneumatic foramen is seen ; the bone

there is narrower, then broadens somewhat, and then, dipping gently, ends as a rounded
or ear-shaped lobe in the re-entering angle formed by the prootic plate (pr.0'.), and the
mastoid region of the ear capsule (op.). Under its concave edge—greatly turned
inwards (se fig. 2, s9.)—the tympanie (a.ty.) can just be seen. The structure of the
8kull in the temporal region is very elegant; the larger hind skull is finished by the
large parietals (p.), which imbricate the frontals in the postorbital region, and throw
themselves backwards and downwards, over the hinder audito