bony tracts defending

DV the brain, all help to make this small skull more or less flexible under accidental

= pressure.

5 I have not added certain figures made from the skull of the adult Water Shrew

A (Cros80pus fodiens) ; it merely differs from that of the Common Shrew (Sores vul-
garis) by its larger size, greater robustness, and a somewhat, more intense ossification
generally. The orbitosphenoids are wider, and the © foramen ovale ” is quite visible on
the lower aspect of the skull ; in the common kind (Plate 31, fig. 2) the bristle (V®.)
is 8een to pass over the incurved lower glenoid process ; there is a notch between it
and the hind corner of the alisphenoid (al.s.), and then a bridge of bone between this
notch and the fore-end of the great infero-lateral fontanelle. In Cross0pus Jodiens
the emerging nerve is bounded in front by a tract of bone, where the notch is in the
lesser third ; here it appears to pass throngh the neck of the lower glenoid process ; as

a matter of fact, the foramen is made by the confluence of the alisphenoid with that

part of the 8quamoxsal.
MDOCOCLXXXV., 2/7


218 MR. W. K. PARKER ON THE STRUCTURE AND

On the 8kull of the Centetidee.

My materials for working out the structure and development of the skull in this
peculiarly Mascarene Family of the Insectivora are as follows

A. Stage 1.—An embryo of the largest kind—Centetes ecaudatus—T7 lines long,
(head 3, body 4), (Plate 16, fig. 13) ; this is intermediate between my 1s and
2nd Stages of the Mole (Plate 1, figs. 1, 2, 3).

Stage 2.—A three-fourths ripe embryo of Centetes ecaudatus, 144 inch long.

Stage 3.—Young individuals of Centetes ecaudatus, 3% inches long.

B. Almost adult specimens of Hemucentetes madagascarienss and H. nigrescens.

C. An adult Ericulus nigrescens.

D. An adult (or nearly) Microgale longicaudata.

Stage 1 (Plate 16, fig. 18).

In the smallest embryo the 8nout is just beginning to project from the front of the
face; the brain vesicles (C'*,, C?., C3.) ar