tirely indebted for our knowledge of the chemical agency of feeble currents in reducing
certain refractory oxides to the metallic state, although it must not be forgotten that
Dr. EpmuxD Davy applied the power of weak currents of electricity to the detection
of the metallic poisons, by reducing them to the reguline state. BucaoLz appears, in
1807, to have succeeded in obtaining crystals of metallic copper by the aid of a simple
voltaic circle. But it is to our illustrious countryman Dr. Farapay that we owe our
acquaintance with the interesting cireumstance of the power possessed by a current
of very low intensity (elicited by a single pair of platinum and zinc plates) in decom-
posing several saline combinations, as the iodide of potassium, sulphate of soda, &c.,
and isolating their respective constituents. In offering the following observations, I
havenot sufficient presumption to suppose them to be possessed of any very important
or original yalue ; but being, as they are, the results of carefully repeated experiments,
and containing an account of what I believe to be some previously unobserved facts,
I deem myself justified in submitting them to the notice of the Royal Society.

2. The facts recently pointed out by M. BzcquersL of the energetic power exerted
by weak electric currents in effecting the reduction not only of the oxides of copper,
lead, or tin, but eyen of glucina, alumina, and silica, are probably very well known
to every one. This philosopher obtained these interesting results by means of a single
pair of plates, placing the solution of the metallic salt in a glass tube closed at one
end by means of a plug of moistened clay, and immersed in a weak solution of com-
mon salt : on placing then a compound metallic arc formed of zinc and platinum in
the solutions in such a manner that the platinum leg might be immersed in the tube
containing the metallic s0lution, (to which M. BzcquersL applies the general term of
* negative tube,”) whilst the zine dips in the solution of salt, decomposition ensues,