and the cavity inclosed by the most central layer becomes enlarged. It is very in-
teresting to observe, that before those primitive changes bave reached their limit, a
structure is produced (by the layers of vesicles in question) having the form of the
central portion of the nervous system, including even the sinus rhomboidalis of the
spinal cord}. It is also interesting to find that the foundation of the vascular system
is a part of the primordial germ (par, 216.). The nature of the alterations which the
germ nndergoes immediately after the termination of the primitive changes now re-
ferred to, I do not know, not having carried my investigations beyond that period.
It is probable that they consist chiefly in the formation of new vesicles. The object
represented in figs. 125 and 126.—met with incidentally—was in a much more ad-
vanced state as to form, and exhibited an incipient division into further forms (par.
218.); yet it presented no trace of separation into tissxues. The origin of tissues, then,
is subordinate to a division into forms. This may serve to elucidate the fact, that parts
in different animals, having a general resemblance in form, are sometimes the seat of
very different functions. And if the primordial germs of organized beings in general
resemble one another in appearance, as much as, from my observations, it appears
that they do in some instances very remote from one another, it is not surprising that
there exist resemblances in the subsequent forms of beings more nearly allied. I
refer, for example, to a curious resemblance between the mammiferous germ with its
vesicle—as exhibited in Plate VI. fig. 113.—and the © eytoblast” and spore of a cryp-
togamous plant (Rhizina levigata),—as figured by SCHLEIDEN in his paper on vege-
table structureh. This observation will perhaps be considered as not undeserving of
notice in connexion with the subject of analogies in the fundamental structure of
organized beings. We find also, that there isa period in the formation of the Mammal
—and therefore, it may be presumed, of Man himself—when the immediate founda-