before the nucleus (par. 297.). The opinion expressed in the last note to par. 317, that the germinal vesicle-
like objects called © nuclei” in the foregoing memoir are in strictness nucleoli, is applicable to the corresponding
objects in previous conditions of the ovum ;—for instance, in such as that exhibited in Plate VI. fig. 1054.
Each of the twin * cells” here seen contained a 8ingle germinal vexicle-like object. In an oyum rather more
advanced, but not yet in the state Plate IX. fig. 155, I saw {wo 8uch germinal vexicle-like objects in the same twin
«cell.” And there scems to be a period in the life of each © cell” (Plate VI. figs. 1054, 106, 107, 108.) when
the single germinal vesicle-like object disappears. Do two or more (the nucleoli of new and infant © cells”)
then arise as its successors? In two instances germinal yesicle-like objects were observed in a state of the
ovum resembling that in Plate IX. fig. 155.; and one or two of them presented a dark point, which pozsibly
was a germinal spot-like © cytoblast.” VarexTiS compared an object obseryed by him in his © germinal
vesicle-like nuclei” to the germinal spot. In one instance (Ueber den Verlauf, &c, tab. IX. fig. 73.) he has
figured this object as surrounded by a circle, Had the circle been produced by a process of the same kind as
that which effected the change in the germinal spot itself, seen in Plate V. figs. 89 6, (par. 124. 299.) ? 'The fact
that the germinal spot becomes hollow in certain states (Plate V. figs. 89, 98, 97, 102 6.) is interesting in con-
nection with the experience of Scuwaxy (regarding other © cytoblasts”) referred to in par. 297.—The layer
of * cells” lining the membrane F, not yet present in the oyum Plate VI. fig. 110, had made its appearance in
the ovum fig. 111. Perhaps the * cells” of that layer arose from a continuation of the same process of division
referred to in par. 317. (Two germinal vesicle-like objects (nucleoli) it will be remembered (par. 180.) were
seen in one of the © cells” fig, 110,) If s0, it may be asked,—in connection with what we have seen to take
place within the parent cell (the membrane e),—does not this process of division admit of a more extended ap-
plication in the history of © cells,” than merely to the * cells” which are the immediate snccessors of the parent
**cell” or membrane e? It is extremely interesting to find apparently the same process in operation at a corre-
sponding period in the fecundated vegetable ovum, Such at least is the inference I draw from the delineations

given by ScuLeIes (Wizcmans's Archiv, 1837, Tab. VII.; and London and Edinburgh Philosophical Ma-