seems to mark the extreme action of the solar light on this particular preparation of
paper, and perhaps on one or two other sorts, by the formation of a pellicle of metallic
silyer thick enough to reflect light with some degree of copiousness. Accordingly,
this pellicle is apt to appear as a bright border or framing round the photographic
copies of engravings, where not covered by the original, and when long exposed, and,
in some cases, even in the strong lights of the pictures themselves.

Extension of the visible Prismatic Spectrum. —A new Prismatic Colour.

56. A variation in the experiment of Art. 54. deserves to be described, not 80 much
on account of its bringing into view any photographic novelty, as for its confirming
and placing in distinct evidence a fact which I have long more than suspected, but
have always hitherto hesitated to announce. The fact to which I allude is that of
the existence of /uminous rays beyond the violet, but not affecting the eye with a sen-
sation of violet, nor of any other of the recognised prismatic hues, but rather with
that colour which is commonly termed layender-grey ; at least such is the impression

i, e, to cobalt. This glass insulates two red rays of definite refrangibilities; one which I call the mean red, the
other the extreme red, This latter is situated 80 decidedly at the extremity of the visible spectrum, that if a
dot be made in the centre of the well-defined and round solar image to which it corresponds, and the glass be
then laid aside, that dot is judged by the eye to lie exactly at the end, or if anything rather beyond than within
the end of the visible spectrum. This is the ray which forms the subject of a communication to the Royal
Society by Mr. Coorzs (read May 16, 1839), but which I have pointed out to the especial notice of photo-
logists on several occasions, viz. 1st, in my paper on the action of crystallized media on homogeneous light,
read December 23, 1819, and printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1820 (See vol. ex. p. 88); 2ndly, in