anal extremity of the duct are as perfect as those near the vaginal outlets. The
oviduct contains in its cavity at least from seventy to eighty of these perfect eggs,
awaiting impregnation, arranged in two or more irregular rows, and greatly dis-
tending its sides. In some of the larger species of the genus there are four, and
in others five rows of eggs, the number of which is much greater than in our native
species. Treviranus* merely described the ovary as formed of two rows of eggs,
but the proper ovaries or ovisacs entirely escaped his observation. The ovisacs are
distributed thickly, to the number of many hundreds, over the whole exterior of
the oviduct (fig. 4 and 5. cc), from its posterior or czcal extremity to within a short
distance of its vaginal outlets. Each ovisac, whatever be its state of development,
contains but a single oyum, eyery part of which is produced in it, from the germinal
vesicle, in the most rudimentary form, to the yelk, albuminous fluid and shell. This
fact deserves particular consideration. A large proportion of the ova in their ovisacs
never arrive at maturity, but are retarded in their growth by the more rapid develop-
ment of others that are near them ; s0 that on examining an oviduet partially dis-
tended with ova, the greater number of ovisacs, in different states of development,
are at the sides, and on the under surface of the duct, in parts which correspond to
the interstices between the fully developed eggs that have passed into the oviduet, or
are $till forming on its exterior. One row of ovisacs usually exists on each side of the
duct, near its upper part, but most of the ovisacs in the course of development are at
its 8ides. The structure of the duct, and of the numerous ovisacs, is best seen in
those specimens which have not yet arrived at maturity, or in those which have just
deposited one laying of eggs. In these individuals the oviduet (b, c), to within a short
distance of its division into two outlets, is studded with minute ovisacs, each filled
with the rudiments of its minute oyum. Its general appearance in a female that has