and the rudiments of its future legs had become larger and more obtuse (6. a) ; an
appearance which the newly-formed limbs of the Articulata often exhibit previously
to their further elongation. Traces of the formation of internal organs were now
evident through the tegument at the posterior part of the body, and the funis (4)
was contracted, as if about to separate. Internally, the body was till formed of cells
aggregated together, but differing more in size than at any previous period, as if they
were becoming fused into separate tissues ; and in the midst of them, and closely sur-
rounded on all sides, was the newly-formed alimentary canal. The canal was now
more opake, and when pressed out of the body, more firmly adhered together, than
any other internal structure, and was distinctly composed of an aggregation of very
minute cells. Around the sides of the body, muscular structure was also in the
course of development, but as yet was exceedingly indistinct. I could observe no
perfect fibre. This fact will safficiently account for the entire absence of spontaneous
motion in the embryo up to this period. A new process was now about to commence,
—the development of new segments. We have seen that on the third day the pos-
terior part of the body is less distinctly divided into segments than the anterior, the
first five segments being most distinctly marked. The sixth and seventh are now
more defined. It is in the membrane (F), that connects the seventh with the eighth
segment, at the posterior margin of which the funis (4) enters, and which segment is
permanent as the penultimate throughout the life of the animal, that the formation
of new segments is taking place. At this period, it is only a little ill-defined space
that unites the seventh and eighth segments into one mass ; but in proportion as the
anterior parts of the body become developed, this part is also enlarged, not as a single
structure, but as a multiplication or repetition of separate similar structures.
