when one end is in connection with the earth, and consequently having the intensity
exalted to a maximum $hort of actual discharge. |
33, I am aware of the many forms the contact theory has assumed since Vorra
first propounded it ; nor can we lose sight of the many errors which his successors
have committed in attempting to follow out their favourite views of metallic con-
tact and electro-motive forces. I am indebted for much information on this point to
the kindness and industry of Mr. C. V. Warkes, who has occupied much time in procu-
ring me references to the researches of those electricians already alluded to, as also
to a long list of others whose names adorn the pages of science. I could easily have
added to those I have named, by referring to the experiments of many other authors
who consider that their favourite theory of contact has been fully established. It is
not, however, my object to advert to these speculations : we have before us certain
facts connected with the action of the voltaic battery ; first contact, or successive
juxtaposition, and simultaneously with it, effects of fension; then the completion of
the circuit, and simultaneously with it, development of chemical action and current ;
but in all these cases contact is first in order, developing tension. BECQUEREL
descrihes it by stating, © When two bodies are in contact the affinities commence
exercising their action before combination takes place.” M. Ds La Rivs, © The elec-
tricity of tension deyeloped by contact of heterogeneous bodies.” PFarapay, © That
the particles of the electrolyte are brought into a polarized state, and raised to a cer-
tain degree of tension, before discharge takes place :” but I am not aware that there
are any experimental facts to prove whether this tension in the voltaic battery, which
itself-is of an opposite character at each terminal, and, as we have seen, can be ex-
alted 80 as to produce discharges in the form of sparks for many weeks' constant du-
ration (16.), is due to the chemical constituents of the battery, or to mere contact of