and remains, indicating a current from the strained part into the unstrained part of
I the iron wire round the part wrapped on the hot peg; that is, from strained to
Q unstrained through hot, or as Maenvus found, © from hard to soft through hot.”
© 111. If weights be added again, as at. first, this deflection is done away with, and
S the deflection that first appeared is regained, when the weight which previously
S allowed the needle to return to zero is exceeded. We thus conclude that iron wire
S hardened by longitudinal tension, may, by the application of a certain longitudinal
Z force, have its thermo-electric quality reduced to that of unstrained s0ft iron, and by
Ba greater force may be made to deviate in the other direction ; or that hardened iron
Z under a heavy stress, of the kind by which it has been hardened, and hardened iron left
© free from stress, are on different sides of unstrained soft iron in the thermo-electric series.
SThere can be no doubt but that the same property holds for copper wire, being in
> fact demonstrated by the experimental results described above in IF 107 and 109.
= 112. I have not yet investigated the thermo-electric effects of stress (that is, the
& effects accompanying temporary strain) in other metals than iron and copper; but
Zit appears probable that the same law of relation to the thermo-electric effects of
EZ permanent strain without stress will be found to hold in each case, since it has been
Zestablished for two metals in which the absolute thermo-electric effects are of con-
S trary kinds. TI hope, however, before long to be able to adduce experimental evidence
2 which will supersede conjectures on the subject. [Since this paper was read I have
= verified the same law for platinum wire. ]
Z 113. The object which was proposed in entering on the investigation, being to test
A the thermo-electric properties of a strained metal, in different directions with reference
to the direction of the strain, was not attained by comparing the thermo-electric pro-
perties of a longitudinally strained metal with those of the same metal in its natural