end and soldered with gold solder. The apparatus was filled with prepared water ;
the water was boiled in the tube to expel the air from the narrow tube and any
which might have adhered to the vessel ; the tube was then, when full of hot water,
inverted into water, and the flame of a common blowpipe made to play against the
platinum tube (see fig. 9) until a white heat was obtained. Upon inverting it under
water, a bubble of the size of a mustard-seed rose to the surface, which gave a very
feeble detonation with the match. Similar bubbles were collected as before, and the
gas in an eudiometer contracted to 0'7. On repetition the experiment did not succeed
80 well, and upon seyeral repetitions it s0metimes succeeded and sometimes failed, and
I should not mention it but that it was the first experiment which gave me, although
not very satisfactorily, the effect of decomposition by heat alone. The reason of its
uncertainty I believe to have been the want of a sufficiently intense heat, as I dared
not venture on account of the gold solder to push the ignition very far; in fact, I sab-
sequently fused the extremity and spoiled the apparatus by applying the oxybydrogen
flame to it; had the platinum tube been welded instead of gold-soldered, it would
doubtless have sncceeded better. I should state that the object of the silver tube
was to prevent the chance of recomposition by the catalytic effect of a large platinum
Surface ; to have, in short, a small portion of platinum exposed to the steam, and that
at a high temperature : economy was also no indifferent consideration. This expe-
riment, although, coupled with the previous ones, tolerably conclusive, did not satisfy
me, and I attacked the difficulty in another manner. The experiment (fig. 5) induced
me to believe that if I conld get platinum ignited under water s0 as to be in an atmo-
Sphere of steam, decomposition would take place ; and M. BouTrcxy's experiments on
the spheroidal state of water led me to hope I might keep platinum for some time
under conditions suitable for my purpose.