calcareous spar, as is frequently the case with that portion of the phragmocone
which is implanted in the alveolus; a fact doubtless connected with the similar
mineral state of the osselet itself. The latter is almost invariably saturated as it
were with crystallized carbonate of lime of a brown colour and radiated structure ;
for notwithstanding the microscopical observations of Dr. CareenTeER and Professor
Owex, I think the evidence is in favour of the conclusion of the Dean or WesTmin-
sTER, that this crystalline condition has resulted from sparry infiltration, subsequently
to interment, into the cellular and radiated calcareons texture of which the osselet.
was originally composed*; in like manner as the crustaceous coverings and spines
of the Echinoderms in the Oolite and Chalk, are 80 saturated with calc-spar as to have
acquired the hardness and peculiar oblique fracture of the erystalline mineral matter.

The facts above described appear to me to confirm the opinion advanced by Mr. C,
Pearce and Mr. CUNNINGToN, that the Belemnoteuthis is generically distinct from the
Belemnite. In addition to the discrepancies in the form and structure of the phrag-
mocones of the respective Cephalopods, pointed out by these observers, the specimen
represented, Plate XV, fig. 3, demonstrates that in the Belemnite there are two other
essential characters of which no traces have been detected in the Belemnoteuthis ;
namely, the periostricum, capsule, or external corneo-calcareous investment (Cc c, c) ;
and the processes that extend from the basal margin of the visceral chamber (b, #'),
the peristome of the Belemnoteuthis being entire (Plate XIV. figs. 3,4). It is worthy
of remark, that the surface of the capsule of the Belemnite, and that of the phrag-
mocone of the Belemnoteuthis, are alike smooth and glossy ; as if in the one the
osselet, &c., and in the other the chambered bell, were originally wholly enveloped
by the mantle, But the exterior of the siphonated phragmocone of the Belemnite is