mine, in Lepidotus and its allies. The latter appears to me to be only a more ex-
tended development of the former. In the beautiful form in which this kosmine
exists on the scales of Megalichthys, Diplopterus and Holoptychius, we have nothing
more, apparently, than the confluent aggregation and superficial depression of a
number of placoid teeth, surmounting a highly developed bony scale. Compare for a
moment the horizontal section of the shagreen of the Dog-fish, fig. 31, with the hori-
zontal section of the Diplopterus, ſig. 20. The dermal teeth of the former are repre-
sented by the areolz of the laiter; the pulp-cavity and branching tubes of the true
dermal tooth, fig. 31 b, have their homologues in the ascending central cavities and
branching tubes of the areolz of the Diplopterus, fig. 20 m. In the same way the
ascending cul-de-sac in each areola of the Megalichthys appears to correspond with
the pulp-cavity, whilst the arborescent tubuli which it gives off represent the dentine-
like tubes of the shagreen. The chief difference appears to consist in the fact, that
in the Ganoid, the areolz, being closely aggregated upon a bony basis, have coalesced,
and been flattened, superiorly, to an uniform level; whilst in the Placoid, each areola
forms an isolated conical tooth, implanted in the soft integument. The different de-
grees to which the same structure may be either flattened, or drawn out and become
acuminate, is seen in the various parts of the exo-skeleton of 1Zacropoma, showing
that the process is a very trivial one, involving no typical change*.

* Since the above remarks were penned, I have found a still more beautiful illustration of this homology.
When the smooth shining membrane covering the snout of the Saw-fish is examined under the microscope, it
is found to consist of a thin soft skin, in which are implanted numerous flattened dermal teeth, each resembling,
in its form, the small studs commonly worn as breast-ornaments. They are packed closely together, with only
a few minute intervening s8paces. "This closely aggregate arrangement, combined with their depressed form,