each molecule of hydrogen*. On this view therefore the atoms, even of the elements,
formed what was in a certain sense a compound group. The discovery of isomeric
forms of hydrocarbon in different states of condensation, and of other similar facts,
gave rise to new ideas as to the possible differences of bodies, and explanations simi-
lar to that by which the differences between certain isomeric organic bodies have
been accounted for came to be applied to the case of the elemental bodies themselyes,
Thus the allotropy of sulphur has been explained by assuming it, in its yarious forms,
to be the same substance in different states of condensation, in which case the dif-
ference between these forms might be expressed by giving to them the different che-
mical formulz of S, S,, S;. Those physical relations however of density and specific
heat, which might give a true scientific yalue to such speculations, and prove that
these substances were really thus connected, have not yet been made out to exist ; nor
indeed has any fact been discovered which places such a notion beyond a conjecture.
GRraHam again, to explain the mode in which the metals conduct electricity in the
voltaic circuit, assigns to these bodies what he terms a sali-molecular structure, and
regards them as consisting of two atoms of a chlorous or acid combined with one atom
of a zincous or basile element, © the three atoms of the molecule being of one metal
and of the same nature.” The latest work in this direction is a paper of M. Lav-
RENT, in which he has attempted, among other things, to account for the differences
in the different classes of salts of the same metal in which, hitherto, different oxides
of a different degree of saturation have been supposed to exist, by assuming them to
contain different molecules or atomic groups of the metal ; and he has shown how, on
this idea, our classification of chemical substances may be much simplified ; on this

* Annales de Chimie, vol. viii. p. 434. See also Gzrnarvr, Comptes Rendus des Trayaux de Chimie, 1847,