side of the left innominate vein down to the back of the auricle. This cord is covered
by the pleura, and erossed by the left phrenic nerve; it descends in front of the par
vagum, upon the side of the aorta and duetus arteriosus to the left pulmonary artery.
opposite to which it penetrates the pericardium. Within this sac it crosses the
small interval between the left pulmonary artery and veins, enclosed in a minute fold
of the serous membrane; and then, becoming applied to the back of the left auricle,
expands into a small conical pouch (c'), which is narrow and pointed above, but wider
below, where it opens into the right part of the yet undivided auricular cavity. No
left superior intercostal vein could be found in this embryo.
In no other foetus examined did the occlusion of the primitive left jugular vein ex-
I fend quite up to the cross branch or left innominate vein ; for there always remained
Ra pervious but shrunken portion of the primitive vessel, which, as will immediately
be shown, forms the trunk of the left superior intercostal vein. This fact is illustrated
Zin fig. 5, 7. In a 8omewhat later embryo (fig. 6), the cord of the occluded vein may
She traced distinetly from the trunk of the left superior intercostal vein (i, which is here
Slarger than usual), passing down through the fibrous layer of the pericardium, and
Zentering its now narrow fold of the serous membrane (c"). Still later (Plate IV. fig. 9).
Zthe traces of a continuous cord above the pericardium are difficult to follow, and at
Zthe full period of fcetal life it is generally impossible to find in that situation more
Sthan a few fine vertical fibrous bands lying close beneath the pleura. The little fold
=of the pericardium, 80 often alluded to, soon after the closure of its contained vessel,
Zxinks, as it were, into the interval between the left pulmonary artery and veins
=(Plate III. figs. 5, 6, c"), where it is found in all future stages, and increases in size with
Zthe other parts (Plate IV. fig. 9, »). Below the fold, the remnant of the closed vein
Zdescends upon the left auricle, and may be traced for a time, as a 8light ridge, but after-