magnetic and diamagnetic substances, disposed with much irregularity as regards its
large divisions of earth and ocean, are also equally irregularly disposed and inter-
mingled in its smaller portions. Nevertheless it is, on the whole, a magnet, and, as
far as we at this moment are concerned, an original source of that power. And

Rive, founded upon the idea of thermo-electric currents in the atmosphere and earth ; it will be found in a
memoir entitled * On the Diurnal Variation of the Magnetic Needle.” Annales de Chimie, 1849, xxv. p. 310.

A friend has recently called my attention to an observation by M. E. Bzcaugzzr, which has reference to the
present eubject, and is in the following words. * Tf we reflect that the earth is encompassed by a mass of air,
equivalent in weight to a layer of mercury of 30 inches, we may inquire whether such a mass of magnetic gas,
continually agitated and submitted to the regular and irregular variations of pressure and temperature, does not
intervene in some of the phenomena dependent on terrestrial magnetizm. If we calculate in fact what is the
magnetic force of this fluid mass, we find that it is equivalent to an immense plate of iron, of a thickness a little
more than {;th of a millimetre of diameter (?), and which covers the whole surface of the globe.” This passage
is at pp. 341, 342 of yol. xxviii. Annales de Chimie, 1850, being contained in an excellent memoir, in which
the author has well worked out those differential actions of different media, which I developed generally five
years ago. Experimental Researches, 2357. 2361. 2406. 2414. 2423. &c. By such means he has rediscovered
the magnetic character of oxygen and taken measurements of its force, being evidently unacquainted with the
account that I gave of this substance in relation to nitrogen and other gases three years ago, in a letter publizhed
in the Philosophical Magazine for 1847, vol. xxxi. P- 401, and also in PocGrxDoRFF's Annalen and elsewhere ;—
hence the observations above. I cannot wonder at this, for I myself was not aware of M. E. Becaquzrer.'s paper
until very lately, In my letter of 1847, I speak of oxygen as being magnetic in common air, p. 410; in car-
bonic acid, p. 414; in coal-gas, p. 415; in hydrogen, p. 415, its power then being equal to its gravity. I say
that air owes its place to the oxygen and nitrogen in it, p. 416, and tried to separate these constituents by at-