tion of the whole egg in the spirit. It was of a dense white colour, and opake, from
the action of the spirit, and was in striking contrast to the dark cells of the yelk,
which adhered to its snrface, and amidst which it lay imbedded like the kernel in a
peach or apricot. On the surface of the black portion of the yelk was a minute
orifice, already noticed by Prevosr and Duwas®, the outlet of a canal that passes
through this portion of the yelk to the germinal vesicle in its interior (fig. 6). This
I believe to be the result of the yelk cells having only imperfectly closed around
the germinal vesicle. It is howeyer of some consequence in the future development
of the oyum, as it is in this canal that the cleavage of the yelk is commenced. The
vitelline membrane was already formed, but I conld not discover any orifice or per-
foration in it, either corresponding to the canal in the yelk, or to any other part of
the snrface. It is not possible to mistake the germinal vesicle for any portion of the
lighter substance of the yelk,—first, from the fact that the vesicle at this period is of
an intense, opake, white colour, very different from that of the yelk substance,—
next, from its being completely isolated from the lighter, and imbedded in the dark
substance,—and lastly, from its being still invested with a distinct envelope. On re-
moving the vesicle, and examining it separately, first, as taken from the yelk, without
erushing it, and next by gentle compression, and with the highest powers of the
microscope, the interior was seen to be filled with secondary cells. Each of these,
formed by a distinct envelope, appeared to contain other, or tertiary cells, and strongly
reminded me of the developmental cells of the spermatozoa in the male organs, since
these again seemed to contain granules, or quaternary cells. In the midst of the
secondary cells I was able to distinguish, in the centre of the germinal vesicle, in s0ome
specimens, one or two cells of larger size than the rest, and which I regarded as the
remains of the germinal spot, or central nucleus. In those ova which, from their size