Received October 30,—Read December 11, 1856.

A cuRvE of the third order, or cubic curve, is the locus represented by an equation such
as U=(%YJz, y, 2 =0; and it appears by my + Third Memoir on Quantics,” that it is
roper to consider, in connexion with the curve of the third order U=0, and its
Hessian HU=0 (which is also a curve of the third order), two curves of the third class,
2. the curves represented by the equations PU=0 and QU=0. These equations, I
ER represent curves of the third class; in fact, PU and QU are contravariants of U,
Sid therefore, when the variables , y, z of U are considered as point coordinates, the
Kriables E, 7, Z of PU and QU must be considered as line coordinates, and the curves will
by curves of the third class. I propose (in analogy with the form of the word Hessian)
t5 call the two curves in question the Pippian and Quippian respectively. A geome-
Eical definition of the Pippian was readily found ; the curve is in fact STEINER's curve
z mentioned in the memoir © Allgemeine Eigenschaften der algebraischen Curven,”
elle, t. xIvii. pp. 1-6, in the particular case of a basis-curve of the third order ; and
Balso found that the Pippian might be considered as occurring implicitly in my ©* M6-
Boire sur les Courbes du Troisidme Ordre,” Tiouvrlle, t. ix. p. 285, and © Nouvelles Re-
Barques 8ur les Courbes du Troisieme Ordre,” Liouville, t. x. p. 102. As regards the
Guippian, T have not succeeded in obtaining a satisfactory geometrical definition ; but
e search after it led to a variety of theorems, relating chiefly to the first-mentioned
e, and the results of the investigation are contained in the present memoir. Some
þf these results are due to Mr, SALMON, with whom IT was in correspondence on the sub-
Pet. The character of the results makes it difficult to develope them in a systematic
Eder; but the results are given in such connexion one with another as I have been able
Þ present them in. Considering the object of the memoir to be thevestablishment of a