been during full diffusion. This difference does not depend on contraction of the {4
branches, but on the granules being absent from them, or sparsely scattered instead of
closely packed ; and I have often ascertained from ome granules remaining widely SCPa-
rated in a proces, that it was of large calibre, though, without careful searching, it would
have seemed invisible. Even in fig. 6 concentration is not represented absolutely perfect;
for a few molecules are to be observed near the black mass in the more circumferential
parts of the body of the cell. The extreme delicacy of the cell-wall makes it very
difficult to trace it among the surrounding tissues, and I have not attempted to give it
in these figures, which, it must be clearly borne in mind, represent only the colouring
matter. 'The external parts of the body of the cell and the principal processes may,
however, be sometimes discovered, though perfectly colourless in consequence of concen»
tration: they are then found to be of the usual dimensions met with in full diffusion,
Showing that they are till full of fluid though destitute of granules. In fact the only
change of form to which the cells appear liable, is a slight bulging of the central part
at the seat of the black mass in the concentrated state, which I have detected in some
cases by camera lucida sketching, and which is consistent with the separation of the cell-
wall from the nucleus, implied by the ultimate disappearance of the central pale points
of fig. 4.

The movement of the granules towards the centres of the cells may be seen without
any great difficulty. The death of a healthy frog is always followed by complete concen»
tration of the pigment for a time, however much diffused it may have previously been,
and the process taking place gradually, its progress can be obseryed. If a frog with the
skin dark, and the pigment therefore diffused, be killed and the web examined $002
with a good glass of high power, the granules may be seen distinctly moving along the