ratus. Hence it is not because the air gets rid of its heat by radiation, but simply
because its power of absorption is infinitely behind that supposed by the hypothesis of
M. A6a881z and the Messrs. SCHLAGINTWEIT, that animal and vegetable existence at the
earth's surface is possIble.

When air-bubbles occurred in those portions of the ice where the liquid disks
appeared, the associated water spread out on planes parallel to those of the disks,
evidently in consequence of the freer yielding of the ice in these planes. Keeping this
remark in view and comparing fig. 1 with fig. 10, plate 4 of M. Acass1z Atlas, the
resemblance of both phenomena will at once be perceived. The glacier ice, like the

compound, I think it may be predicted that it will destroy the longer undulations. For the present I will
avoid speculation upon this subject, and confine myself to facts. If we examine the list of solid substances
whose power to transmit radiant heat instantaneously have been examined by MeLLoxr, we find that those
at the lower end of the list, that is, the most imperfectly diathermanous substances, all contain hydrogen.
In no single case, where this element occurs, is the substance capable of transmitting rays from a 8ource of
752% Faur. ; while in every case where it does not occur, the power of transmitting rays from this source is
manifested in a greater or less degree. Amber, gum, citric acid, alum, sugar-candy, tartrate of potash and
80da, are the substances which exercise this destructive agency upon the longer undulations ; #ce being the
most non-diathermanous transparent body hitherto examined. Turning to MerLoxT's list of liquids, the
same fact reveals itself. There is a sudden fall in the power of transmission at the place where hydrogen
enters the list. Protochloride of phosphorus transmits 62 per cent. of the rays incident upon it, but the
next substance, hydrocarburet of chlorine, transmits only 37 per cent. From this point to the end of the
Table the substances named all contain hydrogen, the list being closed by distilled water, which transmits
only 11 per cent. of the calorific rays from an Argand lamp.