Sith which I am acquainted, is a rectangulated hexradiate spiculum, from the apices of
Shich a variety of beautiful terminations are projected, which vary in form exceedingly
WH different species of sponges. In the class of sponges to which I have alluded there
Tre als0 numerous rectangulated spicula, varying in the number of radii from three to
Tix, the apices of the radii being either acutely terminated or more or less clavated, and
Fhese forms vary very much in size. 'They are unconnected with the skeleton, and
Evidently belong to the Sarcodous system of the sponge. They are very much larger
Shan the hexradiate centres of the compound stellate spicula, but as they are evidently
Ihe normal forms of that tribe, I shall describe the general characters of these - large,
Sjmple, hexradiate forms before those of the more complicated stellate ones.
E ATTENUATED RECTANGULATED HEXRADIATE (Plate XXV. fig. 32),—The first state in
Syhich we find them is in that of an inequi-acerate spiculum (Plate XXV. fig. 24), in
Avyhich condition they are in fact the two axial radii of the hexradiate form which they
timately attain when in their fullest state of development. In the next stage we
ind a bud-like projection isswing from the side of the thickest portion of the inequi-
Vieerate spiculum (fig. 25), which is ultimately developed in the form of a rectangulated
I spiculum, as in fig. 28. Or two buds are simultaneously projected, as in
26 and 27, and the result is a regular rectangulated quadriradiate form, as in fig 30.
AOr if the 8econd ray be at a right angle to the one firs projected, the result is an irre-
gular quadriradiate figure, as represented by fig. 29. In like manner the irregular
pentradiate form arises from the absence of one of the four secondary rays, as in fig. 31;
or it 80metimes occurs. that the apical portion of the inequi-acerate axial spiculum is
deficient, and then the result is, as represented by fig. 33, a regular pentradiate form.
If the whole of the radii are equally produced, the result is then the regular attenuated
Tectangulated hexradiate spiculum, fig. 32.