porivisceral chamber, this would appear to be the only possible conclusion, but can now
be no longer maintained, for it has been ascertained that more than one s8ach Pas8age
exists. The natural inference would therefore seem to be, that the eggs will find theix
way through these passages, which may consequently be looked upon as oyiducts,

'These curious organs were originally described by CUyIER as hearts, in his well-known
memoir on Lingula anatina', and subsequently by Professor OwEy in the Brachiopoda
generally, in his equally celebrated paper * On the Ariatomy of the Brachiopoda,” pub-
lished in the 'Transactions of the Zoological Society?. And up to the present time these
organs are generally considered as the blood-propelling instruments. 'They open, how-
ever, as before stated, externally, and therefore can have nothing to do with the vascular
system. Any one who has the opportunity, and will take the necessary pains, may satisfy
himself of this fact ; but he nust not be discouraged by a failure or two, for unless the
specimens be in excellent condition, he will find the determination of even this simple
point attended with considerable difficulty. The epithelium, which is very deciduous and
brittle in spirit-specimens, is liable to be crumpled in the vicinity of the external orifices.
It is consequently a matter of no little nicety, under such circumstances, to ascertain if
the openings pass through the epithelium. It was on account of my inability to proye
this that I hesitated with regard to these orifices for some time, even after they had
been traced through the membrane circumscribing the perivisceral chamber. And as
the snbject had been investigated by anatomists of the very highest reputation, it was
necessary, before calling in question the accuracy of their conclusions, to have the most
positive evidence. I therefore persevered, not only until the passage was demonstrated
over and over again, but until the exact position and form of the aperture were deter-
mined beyond the possibility of doubt.