explained by ascribing to this spot a vital sphincteric selective office. 'The only link
that is wanting in the chain of evidence proving that the ova are formed in and then
pass out from the segmental organ into the perigastric chamber, is just the opening from
the former into the latter. The ova in the female and the sperm-cells in the male are
abundantly and constantly found in the fluid of the general cavity, and the author has
repeatedly, in the series of observations which he has instituted upon this 8ubject,
actually seen, in large crowds, the ova in the outgoing limb (6 B). The ova at this
point consist of clean pellucid germinal vesicles. The vitellus has not yet appeared.
After they have s0journed for some time in the general cavity, the latter begins to show
itself. Now although the author, in consequence of the peculiar difficulties of the
subject, has never been able to demonstrate clearly the mode by which the generative
products pass from the segmental organs into the perigastric cavity, he is compelled to
believe that this passage is made, from the fact that the ova, at one stage, are actually
Seen an the 8egmental organ, at another, in the general cavity of the body. 'To complete
the chain of evidence it is only necessary to demonstrate the mode in which they escape
from the one place into the other. The segmental organ is the true ovary in the female
and the true testes in the male. Tt is not difficult to prove this proposition. The
ingoing limb of the organ (as far as the point 4) is a highly glandular structure; its
vessels are densely packed and specially arranged ; its walls are thick and stromatous;
at its mid-point (7) is a noted glandular development. From the vascular system of this
gland proceeds the great vascular organ stretching from f to 9.

'To the one side of this great vascular system there are appended peculiar cwcal
pouches (ee); from the other (f#'), a dense capillary plexus. This vascular appendage
is the morphological equivalent of the blood-system connected with the ovogenetic limb