and yet it is obvious that their continued increase upon the plan which has already
manifested itself in the formation of the later chambers, would convert them into Spiro-
line. Such continued increase has obviously taken place in the specimen represented in
fig. 11, which, up to the time of the substitution of the rectilineal for the spiral mode
of growth, has all the appearance of an ordinary Dendritind.

136. Still it may be aid that, notwithstanding all these points of resemblance, the
difference between Peneroplis and Dendritina is clearly marked out by the difference in
the modes of communication between the chambers of the two types; and that such a
difference is sufficiently important to constitute a valid generic character. I freely admit
that this would be the case, if the difference were constantly to present itself between
all the individuals of the same type, as it does between their characteristic examples
(Plate I. figs. 1, 2); but the fact is far otherwise. We have seen that among those
which would be unhesitatingly ranked under the designation Peneroplis, there is not
only a tendency to multiplication of the rows of separate pores, but also an occasional
fusion of two or more pores, 80 as to form a single large pore of irregular shape. On
the other hand, among the unquestioned Dendritine, we observe not merely that the
form of the single large dendritic aperture is extremely variable, but that it is frequently
s0 simple as to suggest the idea of having been formed by the coalescence of a linear
Series of pores. The most characteristic forms of the dendritic aperture that I have met
with, are shown in Plate IL. figs. 12 a, 13a; two examples of a remarkable departure
from this have just been seen in Fig. 11. B, v, where the proportions of the aperture
are altogether reversed, its breadth being much greater than its length, and its central
part being enlarged at the expense of its ramifications; while through such an aperture
as that represented in Plate IT. fig. 22, we are conducted back to the ordinary type,