constantly to remain open. The genus Assilin, having no snfficiently distinctive
characters, must (according to these able investigators) be merged in Nummulites—It
is obvious, from these remarks, that MM. D'ARCHIAC and HaiMe had fully recognized
the two fundamental errors of M. D'ORBIGNY'S definition of Operculina; viz. his state-
ment that the convolutions are non-embracing, and his description of the form of the
aperture as triangular. And although Mr. CarvER * does not allude to the discrepancy
between the structure of the recent type described by him and the generic definition of
M. 0'Opt6xy, yet it is evident that in assigning to it the designation Operculinga he was
guided rather by its general resemblance to the fossils on which that generic name had
been conferred, than by the conformity of its structure to M. p'OrB16xY's definition.
'The errors of that definition are easily accounted for ; since it is only by such an exami-
nation of thin transverse sections as M. D'ORBIGNY (I have reason to belieye) neyer made,
that the fact of the earlier whorls being really embraced by the later, notwithstanding
the apparent freedom of the latter, can be substantiated ; and the determination of the
form of the aperture is very likely to be erroneously made, when the examination is
limited to fossil specimens, in which it is frequently but very indistinctly traceable.

141. The minute structure of this type has been already investigated by two excellent
observers. Under the designation of © an undescribed species of Nonioninga,” Professor
WiLLansoNÞF has given an account of the stracture of a shell abounding in the Manilla
sand, which, not merely from his figures and descriptions, but from a comparison of the -
specimens which he has kindly enabled me to make, I know to be one of the smaller
forms of the Philippine Operculing. Mr. H. J. CarrerÞ has still more minutely described
the organization of an Operculina which he obtained in great abundance on the south-
east coast of Arabia, the shells coming up attached to the grease of the sounding lead