Bre 8uch as are as80ciated with similar remains elsewhere in France and in England,
Sphere we have no reason to doubt the contemporaneity of the two sets of organisms.
5. At St. Acheul part of the lower jaw with the teeth, and considerable lengths (4 and
D feet) of the tusk, of Z. primigenius have been found. At Menchecourt the bones of
She leg, lying in their natural position, and nearly the whole skeleton of a Rhinoceros,
ere found entire,—the first being an improbable, and the second an impossible con-
-Zingency, had the remains of the animal been washed out or removed from some older
Fepoxit. 6. Lastly, the extinct mammalia are of species which occur, both in England
And France, only in the latest geological deposits, whereas if these remains were here
Fxtrancous, we should expect to find some species peculiar to depoxits of anterior date.
z An objection has also been taken on the score of the large number of flint-implements
hinges at St. Acheul. But this is confounding two distinct propositions. 'To 8nb-
Stantiate the discovery of a fact, it is not necessary to be prepared with an explanation
Df all the phenomena connected with it. In this light it, no doubt, presents a difficulty,
avhich, however, it is to be hoped that future research will clear up). I may mention in

= * The wear which will hardly affect a flint-fragment will reduce a calcareous stone to a pebble-form. The

local gravel of an oolitic district is usually composed of 8mooth flat pebbles, whilst if flint-fragments are
present, as is common, they are angular or subangular. Extraneous fossils, as in the Crag, necessarily
present, in general, the maximum of wear, besides showing more or less lithological dissimilarity.

+ It is quite possible, at the same time, that here, as elsewhere, older gravel beds may have furnished
8ome of the materials of this grayel. Tn fact I should judge such to be the case, from the cireumstance of
many of the flints found in the white chalky beds being of a brown colour and all the edges rounded, show-