question raised by M. Boventr DE PERTHES. This section, which is exposed in digging
for s8and and loam at Menchecourt near Abbeville, is noted for its fossil remains of

<Blophant, Rhinoceros, &c., which are there found associated not only with many land
Sand fresInoater shells, but also with several species of marine shells. It has been described
both by M. RavinF and M. Bureuxf, in their excellent memoirs on the Geology of
=the Department. In a note to his description, M. BuTtEux adds that M. BovcneR Ds
PeERTHES had discovered hatchets and other implements in flint in the same beds, but
©that © this discovery may be classed with others of the same sort the exactitude of which
has been contested,” &c.—a verdict generally concurred in at the timey.
S The 8ubsequent publication of Dr. R1G60LLOT's interesting memoir again led to further
Aliscussion and inquiry by several eminent French geologists, especially M. Herr and
2M. Burevx, who now frankly stated the facts relating to the discovery, but without
Sndorsing them with the sanction of their authority or expressing any decided opinion ||.
ZLhere could not have been more fitting and able geologists than, these, my colleagues
Sof the French Geological Society, to conduct any such inquiry, and I might well have
Aſt the matter entirely in their hands had they pursned the investigation further. The
Subject, however, seemed neglected, and no further steps, that T am aware of, were being
taken to investigate it.
g In the autumn of 1858 Dr. FaLcoNER, in passing. through Abbeville, examined
&M. Bovcnnr ps PerTrRs' collection, and satisfied that the flints (the Zaches) were really
Sworked by man, and bore all the impress of age, and that M. Dz PerTaes had probably
Staken a correct view of their geological position, he wrote me a letter describing the
Spreat interest of the collection, and urging me warmly to visit the district, and to see the
Kzections described by M. Dz PerTHEs. Feeling the desirability, in a question of this