careous nucleus is seen to be perforated by numerous apertures (e, e) of corresponding
= diameter, disposed at pretty regular intervals. The relation of these to the canal-
a system is clearly evidenced by vertical sections, such as those represented in figs. 2 and
S 11; in which we see at «, «, the orifices of the spiral canals transversely or obliquely
= divided, and their connexion with the meridional canals 6, 6; and which further show
5 that the s8olid calcareous nucleus is itself traversed by straight canals, ec, c, c, which
= $pring from the successive convolutions of the spiral canal, and pass directly, without
>» branching or inosculation, to the external surface. That this remarkable portion of the
= canal-system does not fully show itself in the * casts ”” represented in Plate XVIII.
= fig. 12, is easily understood, when it is remembered that the whole substance traversed
Z by the straight canals having been removed, their long and slender casts would be left
> entirely without support ; and the points at which these have been broken off from the
= cast of the spiral canal are in fact to be seen on a careful examination, as there
= represented.
S 189. It is shown by the comparison of vertical and horizontal sections of the shell
= with fragments obtained by fracture (Plate XVII. figs. 2, 7, 10, Plate XVI1L. tig. 11),
S that the meridional canals are in reality spaces left by the divergence of the two layers
D» of which each septum is composed, in the immediate neighbourhood of its junction
s with the spiral lamina which constitutes the external wall of the chamber (Plate XVII.
S fig. 7, c, and fig. 10,6; Plate XVIII. fig. 11, 6, 5); and that they are thus homologous
A Vith the arches of the interseptal system of canals that connect together the spiral canals
of Operculina («| 157),—presenting, however, a much greater uniformity and constancy
in their disposition. The diverging branches given off from these (Plate XVII
fig. 8, d, d', d*) consequently pass at once into the spiral lamina, through which they
run obliquely towards the external surface of the convolution, usually increasing in