such colloids as can exist at a high temperature. Hence a wide sensibility on the part
of colloids to external agents. Another and eminently characteristic quality of colloids,
is their mutability. Their existence is a continued metastasis. A colloid may be com-
pared in this respect to water while existing liquid at a temperature under its usual
freezing-point, or to a supersaturated saline solution. Fluid colloids appear to have
always a pectous* modification ; and they often pass under the slightest influences from
the first into the second condition. The s0lution of hydrated silicic acid, for instance,
is easily obtained in a state of purity, but it cannot be preserved. It may remain fluid
for days or weeks in a sealed tube, but is sure to gelatinize and become insoluble at
last. Nor does the change of this colloid appear to stop at that point. For the mineral
forms of silicic acid, deposited from water, such as flint, are often found to have passed,
during the geological ages of their existence, from the vitreous or colloidal into the
crystalline condition (1H. Ros). The colloidal is, in fact, a dynamical state of matter ;
the crystalloidal being the statical condition. The colloid posscsses EXNERGIA. It may be
looked upon as the probable primary source of the force appearing in the phenomena
of vitality. To the gradual manner in which colloidal changes take place (for they
always demand time as an element), may the characteristic protraction of chemico-
organic changes also be referred.

A simple and eaxily applicable mode of effecting a diffusive separation is to place the
mixed substance under a column of water, contained in a cylindrical glass jar of 5 or 6
inches in depth. The mixed solution may be conducted to the bottom of the jar by the
use of a fine pipette, without the occurrence of any scnsible intermixture. The spon-
taneous diffusion, which immediately commences, is allowed to go on for a period of
several days. It is then interrupted by siphoning off the water from the surface in