the first instance, and the acceptance of it in the second, must be less than when a
number of such atoms are grouped together and move as a system.  'Thus we see that
hydrogen and nitrogen, which, when mized together, produce a small effect, when
chemically united to form ammonia, produce an enormous effect. Thus oxygen and
hydrogen, which, when mixed in their electrolytic proportions, show a scarcely sensible
action, when chemically combined to form aqueous vapour, exert a powerful action. So
also with oxygen and nitrogen, which, when mixed, as in our atmosphere, both absorb
and radiate feebly, when united to form oscillating systems, as in nitrous oxide, have
their powers vastly augmented. Pure atmospheric air, of 5 inches tension, does not
effect an absorption equivalent to more than the one-fifth of a degree, while nitrous
oxide of the same tension effects an absorption equivalent to fifty-one such degrees.
Hence the absorption by nitrous oxide at this tension is about 250 times that of air.
No fact in chemistry carries the same conviction to my mind that air is a mixture and
not a compound, as that just cited. In like manner, the absorption by carbonic oxide of
this tension is nearly 100 times that of oxygen alone; the absorption by carbonic acid
is about 150 times that of oxygen; while the absorption by olefiant gas of this tension
is 1000 times that of its constituent hydrogen. Even the enormous action last men-
tioned is surpassed by the vapours of many of the volatile liquids, in which the atomic
groups are known to attain their highest degree of complexity.

1 have hitherto limited myself to the consideration that the compound molecules pre-
sent broad sides to the-ether, while the simple atoms with which we have operated do
not; that in consequence of these differences. the ether must swell into billows when the
former are moved, while it merely trembles into ripples when the latter are agitated ; that
in the interception of motion also the former, other things being equal, must be far more