Enoxity of gas-flames with the oscillations of the barometer will obviously elude the ordi-
mary modes of taking the illuminating power of gas, inasmuch as the standard light with
Spvhich the gas is compared is also subject to the same influence. Still, although the rela-
Stive light of gas as compared with candles may remain nearly or quite unaltered, yet its
bsolute illuminating value depends greatly upon the height of the barometer at the
lace where it is burnt. Thus a quantity of coal-gas which in London would yield a
ht equal to 100 candles would, if hurnt in Munich, give an illuminating effect equal
little more than 91 candles; whilst if used to light the city of Mexico, its laminosity
Swould be reduced to 61:5 candles. These numbers are independent of the change of
Solume by reduced pressure. If equal yolumes of the same sample of coal-gas were
Econsumed in London and Mexico, the illuminating effects would be as 100 : 46-2, the
Hemperature being the same in both cases.
E An inspection of the above three series of observations, reveals the fact that the rare-
faction of air, from atmospheric pressure downwards, produces a uniform diminution of
Slight until the pressure is reduced to about 14 inches of mercury, below which the dimi-
Snution of illuminating power proceeds at a less rapid rate, This uniformity of relation
between pressure and luminosity will be more clearly seen from Plate XIX. diagrams 1
d 2, in which the luminosity is represented by the ordinates, and the pressure by the
Aabscisse measured from the origin B. If therefore the laminosity were simply propor-
tional to the pressure, the curve of luminosity would coincide with the diagonal drawn
from A to B in diagram No 1. Inasmuch, however, as the diminution of light is more
Tapid than the diminution of pressure, the lines A. C and A D, representing the experi-
mental results of the first and second series of observations, fall between this diagonal
and the ordinate corresponding to the point A. Diagram No. 2 shows the results of the
third series of observations : in order to render it as open as possible, only that portion