polished on a succession of revolving laps. The experiments were very numerous; and
to save the time lost while the sample was cooling, we at first applied water cantiously,
and then adopted the device of pouring the sample into a ring laid upon the face of an
anvil. Samples of a few ounces weight frequently cracked upon the anvil, but with
water they usually flew into many pieces. We $00n, however, found that the attempt
to save time by cooling the samples instantanecously was a step in the wrong direction,
'as it was only from s8amples cooled slowly that reliable information could be obtained
A as to the qualities of the future casting. There was, however, this result, that we at
> length came: to the conclusion that instantaneous cooling was unfavourable to perma-
Z nence of polish. In the progress of these experiments we also observed that the rods
S of speculum-metal formed in the air-holes of damp sand-moulds, also the thin plates
5 formed at the junction of the upper and lower moulds, were of unusual strength. We
Swere not then aware of the fact that alloys of tin and copper are softened by sndden
Seooling, which would have accounted for the liability to tarnish, and the great increase
Z of strength.
= Mr. Povres, in Sir David BrewsrTER's © Journal * for 1831, directs attention to the
Z apparent hardness and soundness of speculum-metal cooled instantaneously ; but he does
.2not appear to haye operated upon a larger scale than Mr. CurnBerr, his castings not
S exceeding 13 ounce. Mr. M*CULLaGn seems also to have noticed the same facts; and,
Eindeed, it is not likely they could haye been unnoticed by any one who had been engaged
Emuch in speculum-casting ; but the obvious fact that any considerable mass of an
Zalloy with such large expansions and contractious as speculum-metal, and s0 brittle,
= must fall to pieces if cooled rapidly, would have forbidden the attempt to mannfacture
Slarge telescopes with such a material.
DS In all our carlier experiments the castings were made in damp sand, precisely as in