epithelium of the pharyngeal 8ac of the common earth-worm, a ganglionic plexus of neryes terminates in a
network of single nucleated fibres, rezembling in form a capillary network (Proc, Royal Soc. Jan. 1857,
No. 24. yol. viii.), It is true thab Axer Key (Archiy fiir Anat. &e. 1861, p. 329) has described and figured
in the tongue of the Frog, a remarkably conspicuous communication between nerve-fibres and cells which
correspond to those of ScuuLTzE. But no &nch communication was obseryed either by BrrrorH or Hoyer
(Archiy fiir Anat, &c, 1858 & 1859) in the same organ. On the fibres proceeding from the *olfactory cells”?
of Scnv1LTz2y, there are 8light granular dilatations, which IT have found most remarkable in the Pike, On the
fine fibres which surround the canal in the human fetus, as aboye described, and with which the processes
of the oyal epithelial cells are connected, T haye also observed exceedingly minute dilatations. These fibres,
as already stated, are eyidently continuous, and_identical in appearance with the fine fibres of the pia
mater on the outside of the cord, Without, therefore, denying the possible continuity of the © olfactory
cells” with true nerve-fibres, we must be 80 much the more cautious in admitting their actual continuity
as an anatomical fact, until confirmed by actual observation. That the fibrous structure immediately
surrounding the spinal canal is of the nature of connective tissue, was first maintained by myseJf (Phil.
Trans. 1851) in opposition to ST1111NG, who deseribed it (together with the epithelium, which he had not
detected) as a © circular commissure ”? composed of grey nerve-fibres. In the buman brain, also, the pro-
cesses of the epithelium which extends from the aqueduct of Sylyius along the under surface of the poste-
rior commissure, h aye clearly been seen by myself to pass through fissures in that commissure, to the pia
mater on its opposite zurface (Proceedings of Royal Society for June 20, 1861).


"THE SPINAL CORD IN MAN, MAMMALIA, AND BIRDS. 925

"they were enveloped in delicate sheaths, which, however, were quite distinct from,
although in connexion with, the surrounding reticular tissue (se figs. 12 & 15, Plate