be large internal pressures, but they would necessarily be accompanied by overflowings
from the superficial pores and crevices in many parts of a glacier. But such a pheno-
menon would be entirely opposed to all observation ; and it is this which constitutes the
proof that there can be no great fluid pressure in the interior of a glacier due to water
contained within it in tubes which exert no sensible retarding effect by friction on the
water running through them. This conclusion agrees with that expressed by Principal
Forts in the: last of the preceding extracts; but: the reason assigned is very different.
The absence of great fluid pressure within: the: glacier in snch case is not- due to: the
absence of capillarity, but to the particular condition of its duets and crevices being open
in every part, of the bounding surface of the mass: There caw be no expenditure of vis
vive in producing pressure on a Mooth: surface, as is/ well known, though: such pressure
must necessarily be produced in the case before us, as/in all cases of constrained motion
when the constraint is produced by the action of uct surfaces. The fact-of no vis'viva
being lost does not imply that no internal pressure would be produced:

62. But. let us now turn to. the far more important case- in» which the passage of the
water through the s8mall ducts of any mass, as that of a glacier, is impeded by the
friction of. the 8ides- of the ducts. Tt follows, as shown im the preceding explanation,
that, since in actual cases! there is' no overflowing of water from the pores and. crevices,
here assumed to pervade one' part of the mass: as: well as another, the fluid pressure in
all confluent, ducts at. the point of confluence must/ be' the same, and, therefore, inde-
pendent: of the height above that point: at which each! duct may meet the external
gurface of the glacier. This pressure, when the surface is exposed to the: atmosphere;
cauy be only the atmospheric presxure. Hence it follows-in this' case, as in the previous
one,. that. there/ ca be no! internal fluid pressure- greater than that of the surrounding