dip, and both situated, not as in the woodcut (where, for convenience in illustration,
they are separated by a considerable meridional interval), but in its vicinity, so that the
distance between them may not be such as to make an important difference in their local
time. The mean direction of the north pole of the magnet will necessarily be at both
stations to the magnetic north ; but at c this will be to the geographic west, and at d to
the geographic east. At 8 A.M. the deflection will be to the observer's right, or magnetic
east at both stations ; but this will be at c to the geographic north, and at 4 to the geo-
graphic south ; whilst at 2 e.3r. the deflections at both stations will be to the observer's
left or magnetic west; but this will be at c to the geographic south, and at d to the
geographic north. As in the former case, the direction of the movement between 8
A.M. and 2 P.M. is magnetically the same, but geographically opposite.

Now, keeping these facts in view, let us imagine a circle to be drawn round the point
of 90* of dip, passing through a, 6, c, and 4; at every point in the periphery of that
circle the mean direction of the marked end of the magnet will be magnetic north, but
will have every possble diversity of geographical direction. At 8 A.M. the deflection due
to the solar-diurnal variation will be everywhere to the magnetic east, and at 2 P.M. to
the magnetic west ; whilst at both hours it will have at different points in the periphery
of the circle every possible diversity of geographical direction. Likewise the movement
from 8 A.M. to 2 P.M. will be, at every point in the periphery, from the magnetic east to
the magnetic west, whilst geographically it will have every possible diversity.

It is obvious that what is here stated of points taken in the periphery of the circle is
equally true of every point taken in the interior of the circle, until the point of 90* of
dip is 80 nearly approached as to render the horizontal magnet absolutely astatic.