of the sponge when not in contact with any part of the fibres of the vegetable, but
wherever they are in contact with the plant they instinetively, as it were, assume the
erect position, and the false skeleton is bristling with them to as great an extent as if it
were truly a keratose fibrous structure. This feature in the habit of the sponge is
very remarkable, and highly snggestive of a capability of adaptation to cixcumstances
that we should scarcely have expected to find. By the two instinctive habits, first, that
of converting the plant into an artificial skeleton, and then erecting its spinous spicula
on its fibres, it at once simulates the habits of a kerato-fibrous sponge, and becomes
capable of the carnivorous hibits that T have attributed to those sponges that are 80
strikingly adapted for preying on intruding annelids or other 8nch small creatures.
In the species above described, Zymeniacidon Oliftoni, BoweRBANK, MS., Plate XXX.
fig. 9, the erection of the spicula on the adopted skeleton is an established habit, and it
may be said to be instinctive in the species, but I have observed the same fact in sponges
not habitually parasitical. T have a specimen of Microciona carnosa, BOWERBANK, MS.,
a British species, in my possession in which some 8mall fibres of a tubular zoophyte
have been accidentally included during its growth, which the sponge has coated with its
own tissues, and from these adopted columns defensive spicula are projected in a similar
manner to those of the columnar skeleton of the 8ponge. In this case we have an
instinctive adaptation of an extraneous substance in a sponge in which the introduction
of foreign substances is the exception, and not, as in other tribes of sponges, the rule.
In Hyalonema mirabilis, GRAY, a sponge nearly related to the genus Alcyoncellum, we
find another extraordinary series of internal defensive spicula, the structure of which I
have described at length under the head of * Defensive Organs.” These elaborately and
wonderfully formed weapons are evidently destined for other purposes than that of
simple repulsion. The spiculated cruciform spicula, with their short stout basal radii