'=f the wires depicted on it. 1 must here call attention to the cireumstance, that in
Jhe various phases of the eclipse the wires cannot be traced beyond the crescent of the
Sun ; for the time occupied in taking the photograph is 80 extremely short, that the
:Sackground of the sky in the immediate neighbourhood of the s8wn does not in the
lightest degree depict itself on the collodion plate. The wires are visible on the sun's
rescent, because they intercept his action, and produce a blank space corresponding to
Sheir shadows, but evidently the dark body of the moon and the adjacent sky could have
"0 such effect. In photographs of the partial phases, therefore, the length of the wires
Aepicted corresponds with the extent of the crescent unobscured, and is shorter the nearer
Hhe picture is to the totality. A wire which is visible in some cases is afterwards covered
Sby the moon, 80 that the correct apposition of the picture could not be effected, in every
Einstance, by means of the same wire. In the totality-pictures the whole four wires are
Srixible, from the fact of one or other of them having intercepted either the light of the
Eprominenoes or that of the corona, the latter even having depicted itself sufficiently to
render the shadow of the wires quite perceptible. In the other phases, either wire IV.
Eor wire II. was used for rectifying the picture; if wire II. were used, the circle was
Acdlamped to read 134" 54' 10”, because this had been found, by measurement, to be the
position which corresponded to 315® for wire TV.
Supposing wire IV. to have been visible, and the circle clamped 80 as to read exactly
315? after centering, it would generally happen that the picture of wire IV. was neither
- under the centre of the microscope, nor parallel with the wire corresponding to the
Slide A, because, in the first place, the picture may not have been taken exactly in the
centre of the heliograph ; and in the second place, in centering, the image of the wire
may not have been brought exactly parallel with a normal diameter from 315® to 135*
of the circle C. If snch were the case, by means of the upper circle D the image of