absorbed by the aqueous yapour which exists within ten feet of the earth's surface on
a day of average humidity, is a moderate estimate. In warm weather and air approach-
ing to saturation, the absorption would probably be considerably greater. 'This single
fact at once suggests the importance of the established action as regards meteorology.
I am persuaded that by means of it many difficulties will be solved, and many familiar
effects, which we pass over without sufficient scrutiny because they are familiar, will
have a novel interest, attached to them by their connexion with the action of aqueous
vapour on radiant heat. While leaving these applications to be made in all their
fullness by meteorologists, I would refer, by way of illustration, to one or two points
on which I think the experiments bear.

And first it is to be remarked that the vapour which absorbs heat thus greedily
radiates it very copiously. This fact must, T think, come powerfully into play in the
tropical region of calms, where enormous quantities of yapour are raised by the sun, and
discharged in deluges upon the earth. This has been assigned to the chilling conse-
quent on the rarefaction of the ascending air. But if we consider the amount of heat
liberated in the formation of those falling torrents, the chilling due to rarefaction will
hardly account for the entire precipitation. 'The substance quits the earth as vapour,
it returns to it as water ; how has the latent heat of the vapour been disposed of? It
has in great part, T think, been radiated into space. But the radiation which disposes
of such enormous quantities of heat subsequent to condensation, is competent, in some
measure at least, to dispose of the heat possessed prior to condensation, and must there-
fore hasten the act of condensation itself. Saturated air near the surface of the sea
is in cireumstances totally different from those in which it finds itself in the higher
atmospheric regions. Aqueous vapour is a powerful radiant, but it is an equally power-