radiators. Silver has about six times the conductive power of zinc and tin ; it has only
one-fourth of their radiative powers. Brass possesses but one-half the radiative energy
of platinum; it possesses more than twice its conductivity. Other experiments of
MM. Ds 14a ProvosrarE and Drsains4 confirm those hitherto referred to. Taking the
absorbent power, as determined by these excellent experimenters, to express the radiating
power, and multiplying their results by a common factor to facilitate comparison

* And we als pass, as a general rule, from a series of bodies which vibrate in accord with the visible spec-
trum to a 8eries which vibrate in discord with the spectrum, The lowering of the rate of vibration is a con-
8equence of chemical union. The comparative incompetence of compound bodies to oscillate in yisual periods
has incessantly declared itself in these researches. I would here refer to a most interesting illustration of the
8ame kind, derived from the experiments of MA, Ds 1a ProvostarE and Desarxs, These distinguished experi-
menters were the first to record the important fact that the qualities of heat emitted by bodies at the same tem-
perature may be yery unlike. Two experiments illustrate this fact, The firs is recorded in the Comptes Rendus,
yol. xxxiv. p. 951, One half of a cube was coated with lampblack, and the other half with cinnabar. The cube
being filled with oil at a temperature of 173? C., it was found that the emission from the cinnabar was more
copiously absorbed by a plate of glass than that from the lampblack. In the second experiment, they found that,
while 39 per cent. of the radiation from a bright surface of platinum was transmitted by a plate of glass, only
29 per cent. of the radiation from the opposite surface of the samo plate, which was coated with borate of lead,
was transmitted, These results are quite in harmony with the views which I have ventured to enunciate, We
may infer from them that the heat emitted by the respective compounds—the cinnabar and the borate of lead—
is of slower period than that emitted by the elements; for experiment proves that as the periods are quickened
the glass becomes more transparent. At a temperature of 100® C., moreover, the emission from borate of lead
was found equal to that from lampblack (Comptes Rendus, vol. xxxviii. p. 442), while at a temperature of 550? C,
it had only three-fourths of the emissive power of the lampblack. With reference to the theoretic yiews which