an almost transyerse direction. They differ also from the fibres of the second layer, in
not extending quite s0 far either towards the apex (Plate XII. compare & of fig. 3 with
k of fig. 2) or the base (compare 1” of fig. 5 with xn of fig. 6), and in being confined
to more central portions of the vyentricle—a cireumstance which, as has been already
explained, accounts for a vertical section of the ventricular wall tapering towards the
apex and the base. The fibres of the third layer further differ from those of the second
in exhibiting a less degree of crowding at the apex—for the very obvious reason that the
apicial orifice, on account of the conical shape of the ventricle, becomes larger and larger
with the removal of each successive layer.

Fourth or central layer of the left ventricle (Mammal). When the three external layers
have been removed, the fourth or central layer (Plate XII. fig. 4) is exposed. This
layer may be denominated the circular layer, or layer of transition, from the fact that
the fibres entering into its formation are circular, and form the boundary between the
external and internal layers. It differs from the other layers as regards the quality and
the direction of its fibres, and as regards its position in the yentricular wall—the fibres
composing it, being aggregated into strong fascicular bands, whose course is neither from
left to right downwards as in the external layers, nor from right to left upwards as in
the internal ones, but horizontal or transverse. This peculiarity in direction, which
causes the fibres of the fourth layer ( #9,44 e) to run at nearly right angles to those
of the first (5) and seventh layers (Plate XIT. fig. 7, 0%), is accounted for by the fact
that in the fourth layer, the fibres of the third layer terminate or double upon them-
selyes, while the fibres of the fifth layer (Plate XII fig. 4, &) begin. In other words,
the fourth layer, while it belongs neither to the third layer nor the fifth, forms the con-
necting or transition link to both, as may be seen by a reference to Plate XII. fig. 4,