shape, the thickest part being directed towards the base, where it has to resist the
greatest amount of pressure—the thinnest corresponding to its dependent and free
margin, where it is applied to, and supported by, the septum. The upper border of the
fold is finely rounded, and in this respect resembles the convex border which limits the
right ventricle of the mammal towards the base.

The spindle-shaped muscular band (Plate XIV. fig. 40, A), which from its connexion
may be said to command the upper (e”) and lower (5) portions of the right ventricle
interiorly, is obviously for the purpose of coordinating the movements of the muscular
valyular fold; and as its position and direction nearly correspond with the position and
direction of the musculus papillaris situated on the right ventricular wall of the mammal
(Plate XIV. fig. 44, 1), it is more than probable that it forms the homologue of this
structure. Indeed this seems almost certain from the fact that, if the ventricles of the
bird be opened anteriorly (Plate XIV, fig. 40), and the band referred to contrasted with
the anterior musculus papillaris of the left ventricle (y), both are found to occupy a
8imilar position. 'The fleshy band therefore may be aid to be to the muscular valve of
the right ventricle, what the anterior musculus papillaris and its chordee tendinee are
to the segments of the mitral yalve. Compared with the tricuspid valve of the mammal,
the muscular valye of the right ventricle of the bird is of great strength. As, more-
over, it applies itself with unerring precision to the septum, which is slightly prominent
in its course, its efficiency is commensurate with its strength. The prominence on the
septum alluded to is very slight, and might escape observation, were it not that immedi-
ately below it the septum is hollowed-out to form a spiral groove of large dimensions (0 e").
This groove, like the yalve, runs in a spiral direction from behind forwards, and from
below upwards, and, when the valve is applied to the septum during the systole, con