catastrophe of such a nature as to destroy the life of the period, and seek' for an expla-
nation of its return by immigration from adjoining districts. Apparent even as the
connexion is in the limited ground we have studied, it is infinitely stronger when the
whole series of pliocene and postpliocene deposits comes under reyiew. Even in the
aspect here presented the conclusion is inevitable, that no general cause has led to the
extinction of life over this part of Europe at any recent geological period. There have
been great river-floods and great changes, but no interruption in the snccession of life
from the time of the great extinct mammals to our own times. There are still serious
difficulties in the way of explaining the cause of the disappearance of s0 many of these
large Mammalia ; but a sufficient number remain to attest the direct descent of a portion
of the old fauna to our day. The Reindeer, the Bos primigentus, the Aurochs, are
amongst those which survived all the successive changesF. Why the larger Pachyderms
should not also haye survived we cannot explain, we can only admit the fact, which is
the more remarkable from the non-extinction of other classes. The change of climatal
conditions could scarcely have been the sole cause, as that would affect one class equally
with the other; and besides, as the climate at this time presented no extreme character,
they could, as the changes progressed, have found, by migration or limitation, as with
the other animals, places still adapted to their former condition. But by far the most
remarkable and convincing feature in the case is the transmission from the quaternary
period of 80 large a proportion of the small and delicate land and freshwater shells. Not
only are they found inhabiting the same land as formerly, but their distribution follows
very much the same law. More than two-thirds of our recent species are found in a
tossil state; and when we consider that the list of living species is the result of close
examination of numerous obseryers for a series of years over a large extent of country,
whereas that of the fossils is the result of a necessarily limited search at very few