& s8ystem of criteria, since J,, as well as A, may be negative consistently with the second condition. T haye not
© been able to ascertain whether in the memoir such a combination is shown to be impossible, M, Hzrurrs
> admits, and indeed has been always aware of, the existence of a lacuna in the conditions aboye stated, which, I
B* understand from him, it is his intention at some future time to fill up, and thus to complete his original solution,
£ In the meanwhile he has been led to study the question from a different point of view, and has succeeded in
£ obtaining a new set of criteria adequate to a complete solution of the question without calling in the aid of the
— principle of continuity. In this new system my A criterion is replaced by an inyariant of the twenty-fourth
Z degree, which is of course an objection as far as it goes, but in no wise diminishes the extraordinary interest
—= that attaches to this altered mode of approaching the question, which bears to his original method and my own
5 the ame relation as the proof of Sruzx's theorem by the lay of inertia for quadratic forms bears to that given
A by Sronx himself.

(*) It is apparent from the fact that when D=0, G (M. Hzmrre's T*) becomes (254%—3.2J,)(254%—2"J, y
(Camb. and Dub, Journal, vol. ix. p. 206), that the factors of this product are respectively of the form aA'+bJD,
cA+tdD, a, b, c, e being certain numerical quantities. This gives rise to a gingular reflection, to wit, that my
own criteria for tho case of TD positive may be varied by the addition of a term ADJ to A (A being a numerical
coefficient), provided A lies within certain limits, the form of the criteria in all other respects remaining un-
changed. This proposition, fraught with the most important consequences, and not unlikely to lead to an
entire revolution in the mode of attacking the general problem of criteria, I proceed to establish in the text.

(®) The 8urface to be employed will be A—glD, which call M. A and M (or at least their upper portions above
the plane of D) may then be regarded as tho two sides of a sack, of infinite dimensions, open ab the top, and
s8eamed together at the bottom, along the curyed line D=0, A=0, and in the vertical direction along the
sfraight lin J=0, L=0. The surface A serving as a 8creen of separation between the two upper regions, it is
Clear that M will serye equally well as such sereen, provided no superior facultative points lie in the interior