Þ direct contact with the cylinder. The general method of observing with this apparatus
was as follows:—The snbstance to be experimented on was cast or ground to a form
somewhat like fig. 7, and suspended by means of a slip-knot made with the fine platinum
wire in the cylinder filled with boiling distilled water. 'This being made to boil, was
boiled with the substance for the space of half an hour. Another silver vessel was
kept ready with boiled out and boiling water to supply the loss by evaporation.
After boiling for the half hour, the cylinder was placed in the box already filled with
water of the proper temperature, and the platinum covers placed on it ; the box was
then covered with the zinc and wooden covers, of course great care being taken to let
the fine wire 8wing freely. Whilst experimenting at high temperatures, steam had to
be passed into the box to keep a constant temperature. By means of a small boiler,
heated by gas placed at some distance from the apparatus, this was casily effected. In
fact, by carefully regulating the gas, any temperature between 50® and 100? may be
kept constant for any time. A waste-pipe was fitted into the side of the box to allow
the water when it reached a certain level to flow away; as s0on as the temperature
became constant, the first weighing was proceeded with ; in the one pan of the balance,
large weights were placed 80 as to make that, side of the balance the heaviest; this
is brought into equilibrium by placing smaller weights in the other pan, namely, the
one to which the platinum wire is fixed. The balance stands in a glass case, and
$urrounding this is another glass case (not shown in the figure), to keep the tem-
perature of the balance as constant as possible. Tt did not vary during a series of
observations more than 1% The proper weight having” been found, which it was
Posible to do to an accuracy of 0:0001 grm. when weighing in water, it was noted,

* To diminish the amount of air sucked in at c, and as a protection againt dust, the opening at e was covered