SIR B. C. BRODIB ON THE CALCULUS OF CHEMICAL OPERATIONS. 815

The chief arguments by which this view is snpported are derived from the observations
(1) that it is very rarely that the indices of the prime factors of chemical symbols have
a common measure ; (2) that on this assumption the &ymbols of hydrogen, water, and per-
oxide of hydrogen constitute a series of the form &, «&, «£2; and that the densities of
these substances form an arithmetical progression, being 1, 9, 17; and that s8nch series
80 frequently occur in the actual system of chemical symbols as to render probable their
existence in the future system.
The conclusions at which we thus arrive are not to be regarded as necessarily final.
Not only is it possible that further information as to the chemical properties of the per-
= oxide of hydrogen might lead us to the adoption of a more complex symbol, but we can
&@ even specify the very facts, the discovery of which would induce us to modify our opinion.
But, nevertheless, the choice of the expression «£? as the symbol of the unit of this 8ub-
stance is not an arbitrary and conventional selection. It expresses the most probable
= opinion which, with our actual knowledge, we can form as to the nature of the equation
L from which it is derived, and which we provisionally embody in the symbol for the pur-
S poxse of tracing the consequences of our hypothesis.
2 The weight of that portion of any chemical substance which I have termed the che-
'Z mical unit of ponderable matter, is (Sec. I. Def. (10)) the weight of that portion of each
= substance which in the gaseous condition, at 0* C. and 760 millims. pressure, occupies
the space of 1000 cub. centims. This weight may be measured in two ways; either by
'S comparison with the weight of a cubic centimetre of distilled water at 4® C., or by com-
Z paring it with the weight of the chemical unit of hydrogen. We shall hence have two
S s8eries of numbers by which the weights of the portions of ponderable matter resulting