increase than these, the cotton recovered was in this instance also only about 1 per
cent. below the quantity employed, the difference in the weight of the nitro-product
having been. due only to the formation of a s0mewhat larger proportion of soluble gun-
cotton. It appears from these results, and estimating the proportion of loss which the
processes of conyersion and reduction may involve at about 0:5 per cent., that the par-
ticular cotton-wool operated upon contained about 0-5 per cent. of matter foreign to
£ellulose, which was eliminated in the course of the transformation and reproduction of
Ahe- latter. But, when less pure samples of cotton were converted as completely as
PSracticable into insoluble gun-cotton, and furnished results from 1:75 to 4 per cent.
wer than those obtained: by similar treatment of the pure material, the weight of the
Secovered cotton indicated a loss upon the original substance employed of from 4-4 to
$3 per cent., an increased loss which must be due to the larger proportion. of foreign
Hatters existing in the cotton operated upon. These facts surely afford strong support
ib the conclusion that the deficiency in weight exhibited by the products obtained from
AZrdinary cotton-wool, even after its purification with alkali, as compared with those
Furnished under the same circumstances by purer cotton-wool, is due to the presence of
reign matters in the cotton, which, though partially retained by the gun-cotton, exist
:$here in the form of products whose formation does not add, in so high a. proportion, to
Ihe original weight of the cotton as does the production of trinitro-cellulose.
2 It follows from the above results, obtained by treatment of the ordinary cotton-wool
Sith a considerable excess of acid, that if the same cotton be treated with the limited
Proportion of acid-mixture (10 to 14 parts by weight to 1 part of cotton) employed in
be ordinary. course of manufacture, the products must then exhibit somewhat less
Ancrease of weight (lower proportions, therefore, than 178 or 180 from 100 of cotton),
Hecause, under those cireumstances, the production of larger proportions of the lower