Jamous Orbuling on one hand, and to the polythalamous Notaline on the other. Its,
:Hiell is composed of a series of hyaline and perforated chambers, of a spheroidal form,
Arranged in a spiral manner, and each opening by a large aperture around the umbilicus,
snch a manner that the apertures of all the chambers are apparent on that aspect of
-2he shell, and form a large © umbilical yestibule.” "This opening of the chambers into
'Bne common vestibule is also characteristic of Carpenteria balaniformis. The extra-
Sudinarily wild manner of growth of the latter is, to a certain degree, represented in
Snany of the larger specimens of Globigerina, which, losing the vesicular or botryoidal
Sorm, become flat, outspread, and loosely lobulated or palmate. Although in these
espects, and also in the close resemblance of the young shells, these two species show
& near alliance, yet Globigering seems, on the whole, from its general neat habit of
Srowth, and from its peculiar varietal groups, to be most nearly related to the Rotaline
Planorbuling and Discorbina). In fact, Globigerina and its varieties form an interesting
Sroup, which may be regarded as central to the Planorbuline and Discorbine species and
Fbeir varieties, as well as certain species (Prllenia and Spheroidina) which were not until
lately recognized as related to the Rotalind.

The chief varieties of Gobigering are peculiarly isomorphic of these other forms. The
large, extremely thick-walled, compact Globigerina, of the deepest waters, may stand as
the isomorphs of the equally abyssal solid specimens of Sphae@roidina; nor are the two
forms dissimilar at first sight. The smooth-walled compact Gobigerina, such as have
been named G7. inflata, D'Orb. (Foram. Canaries, pl. 2. figs. 7-9), come near in structure
to the highly polished, flush-celled, somewhat gigantic specimens of Pullenia obliquilo-
eulata, Parker and Jones* (the type of which is the s0-called Nonioning spharoides,
D'Orb.) from great depths. We have already mentioned the wild-growing Gobigerina