Fessure rose to 8 inches, remaining at that height for several minutes. The animal
@ntinued to breathe violently for about sixty seconds, during which period about twenty

halations took place. After this the respiration assumed a more regular character, its
EM varying from five to six per minute. After the first section the pulse gradually
Hcreased in frequency, finally attaining a rate of 120 per minute. This rate was main-
tained for two minutes and a half, when it suddenly diminished to fifty.
'ZIn all the animals I haye observed after section of the pneumogastrics T have found
®) that the arterial pressure tends to increase during the slow inspiration, and to decline
Airing the pause; (2) that a more rapid increase of tension occurs simultaneously with
Bpiration ; and (3) that this last effect, as I have ascertained by repeated measurements,
ipver lasts for more than a second. In order to arrive at a satisfactory explanation of
tHese facts, it is necessary to consider what is the condition of the heart and circulation

ter section of the yagi. The arterial tracings obtained indicate extreme abbreviation
I the diastolic period combined with high arterial tension. The contractions of the
Kart follow each other s0 rapidly that the organ is in a state of continuous thrill, while
= the same time they are sufficiently vigorous to maintain an arterial pressure seyeral
inches higher than the normal. In other words, the heart, although it relaxes between
Ach contraction and its successor, never has time to empty itself, so that the whole
Sstemic circulation is unduly distended. AU this is sufficiently explained if we assume
Hat after section of the pneumogastrics the action of the heart is intensified, the effect
King altogether analogous to that which results from the injection of air into the lungs
of a partially asphyxiated animal (se Observations XIII.-XVLI.). 1t is to be further
noticed that the thoracic cavity is also in a state of permanent distension, in consequence