© Flexure—lt is of the utmost importance that a bar be supported invariably at the
game points; if these points be altered, then (unless the divided surfaces be in the neutral
- axis) the length of the bar undergoes a change. The proper poxitions for the supporting
rollers of a bar have been investigated by Mr. Airy in the Memoirs of the Royal Astro-
. _nomical Society. In order to test the theory of flexure of bars (considered as elastic
rods) by actual experiment, a large number of observations as to changes of length cor-
responding to change of supports were made on three iron bars specially prepared for
DX the purpose. Each bar was 40 inches long by an inch square, It will suffice here to
& explain generally the process and give the results for one of the bars. If a bar be sup-
8 ported by its extremities, it is clear that the whole of its upper surface will be compressed,
S while the lower surface will be correspondingly extended ; therefore the length of the
= bar as measured by the distance between two dots at the extremities of the upper surface
3 will be less than if the neutral axis were straight ; in fact, if © be the inclination of the
I bar at either extremity to the horizon, and + the depth of the bar, its curvature will
& cause the dots to approach each other by the quantity i. This effect of curvature will
:= be greatly exaggerated if the dots be engraved, not on the surface of the bar, but on the
Z tops of bits of strong wire inserted (in a vertical position) into the bar at its extremities ;
Si if þ be the length of either wire, the approach of the dots to one another by the curva-
S ture of the bar will be *({&+2}). Accordingly four such perpendiculars were erected on
D the upper surface of the bar, one at either extremity, and one 10 inches from either
I extremity. A box fitted with rollers was prepared to receive the bar; each roller,
Z mounted in a frame, could be fixed in any required position, and could at the same time
Z be moved in a vertical direction up or down by means of a slow-motion screw outside
E the box. Now suppose four rollers s0 fixed in the box that one is under each extremity
£ and two more at 2 inches right and left of the centre of the bar. Suppose also four