fig. 14, 2), and the extent of wall traversed by them from the time they enter the
bladder until they reach its interior, equals, as nearly as may be, half an inch. In the
distended state, on the other hand, the ureters come together in a nearly straight line
(Plate IV. fig. 18, +2), and the extent of wall trayersed is increascd to three-fourths of
an inch, or thereabouts. The openings of the ureters in the flaccid bladder are
Separated by an interval, which varies in different bladders, and in the same bladders
according to the degree of distension. Usually it is about an inch and a quarter in the
flaccid bladder, and from an inch and a half to two inches in the distended one,
Although the openings of the ureters are thus widely apart, it does not follow that the
ureters, or rather the muscular fibres composing them, terminate where the openings
occur. On the contrary, the muscular fibres of the ureters are continued between the
uretral openings, and are as strongly pronounced in the interior of the bladder as they
are on the exterior and within the walls. There is in fact no breach of continuity
in the muscular fibres of the ureters within the bladder, and the two ureters unite
in the mesial line to form a strong loop or girder in which the viscus may be aid to be
8nspended or slung. This arrangement prevents puckering of the coats of the bladder
at the points where the ureters open, and secures to those portions of the ureters
imbedded in the walls of the bladder a relative and definite position. The continuity
referred to is best seen when the preparation is rendered transparent and held against
the light. When 80 viewed the ureters (continued into each other) appear as a strong
dark band, which is as distinctly pronounced between the orifices of the ureters as
within the walls of the bladder itself (Plate IV. figs. 14, 17, & 18, 2,2; Plate V. dia-
gram 7,v2z). Tn addition to being continuous with each other, the fibres of the ureters,
as was satisfactorily shown by HoposoxF and Ersf, are continuous with those of the
neck of the bladder and the urethra. The fibres which connect the ureters with those