now regarded* as the head of the third (anchylosed) metatarsal, does not project poste-
riorly (it is true) 80 much as in Didus; but this fact appears to us to be in consequence
of the heads of the second and fourth (anchylosed) metatarsals being expanded laterally
rather than antero-posteriorly. In like manner, and for the same reason, we are unable
Sto confirm STRICKLAND's generalization as to the three trochlew at the lower extre-
Amity being placed more nearly in the same yertical Plane in Didus than in Pezophaps ; for
Sin this last the large series of examples shows that the angle formed by joining the
wTcentres of the three trochlew (of course the only mode of accurately testing the obser-
ation) is much more obtuse in the smaller (female?) specimens than in the larger
{male ?). In this case, if any stress is to be laid on STRICKLAND's inference (ut $vpre ct),
St would follow that the larger (male?) examples of Pezophaps did not run 80 quickly as
Drdinary examples of Didus, while the smaller (female ?) attained a greater speed. The
'Drifice of the calcaneal canal is absolutely smaller in Pezophaps than in Didus, a fact
Apparently arising from the greater thickening in the former of the © calcaneal processes.”
or the rest we may safely leave this bone as already accurately and sufficiently de-
*Zeribed.
= The posterior metatarsal (Plate XX. figs. 104, 105), of which fifteen specimens are
Sontained in the collection, is one of the few bones we have not had the opportunity of
Fomparing with the corresponding part of Didus. Judging, however, from the figures
Snd a model of the celebrated Oxford specimen, it would appear to be more massive and
o present a smoother surface, the furrow for lodging the flexor tendons of the hallux
ot being 80 deep, and the whole bone is less crooked. The proximal articular surface
= more convex in the middle than it would appear to be in Didus; but its lower portion
S roughened just as is said to be the case there. 'The styloid process is much less deve-
ped than it would seem to be in Didus, and on the surface which is twisted forwards