A further light is thrown upon this arrangement by that found in the Donkey, of
which the sncceeding figure (Plate XI. fig. 21) was drawn from a sketch made also from
nature by Mr. NevrLesme. In this animal the acromio-trachGlien (levator clavicule)
(e e) arises by four digitations from the four upper ceryical transverse processes, and is
a far larger muscle than the cleido-mastoid, much resembling in appearance the origin
of the human levator anguli scapule. The cleido-mastoid portion (b), however, arises,
not in common with the rectus capitis anticus (u) from the basilar process, but with the
rectus lateralis (w) from the paramastoid process just behind the ear, as in most of the
Mammalia, and clearly asserting its homology with the human eleido-mastoid. The
two muscles have exactly the same relation to each other as those of the Fallow Deer,
and form, in the same manner, the compound Tevator humeri muscle (b ec). As an evi-
dence of the like tendency to transposition evinced by this group of muscles in the large
heavy animals, both long- and short-necked, I may allude to the fact that in the Ass and
Horse, as well as in the Camel, Elephant, Hyrax, and most of the Ruminants, the sterno-
mastoid is inserted into the angle of the mandible (hence called sferno-mazillaris
vel mandibularis by veterinary anatomists). Tn the Peccary, Hippopotamus, Pig, and
Tapir it is, however, inserted into the mastoid process, with a «lip to the transverse
process of the atlas in the Hippopotamns.

The question now arises,—What, then, is the homologue of the muscle which has been
usually considered by writers on the subject as the cleido-mastord, viz. that marked c in
the figure of the Rabbit (Plate X. fig. 16)? Tts snperficial position in relation to, and
paralleligm with the fibres of, the sferno-mastoid (0), its attachment to the ridge of the
occipital bone as far as that of the trapezius, its intermediate position here between
these two muscles, together with its superficial position at its attachment to the clavicle