condition in Calamites. We further discoyer in the node of the Equisetum that, in addi-
ion to the cellular diaphragm, or extension of the pith that stretches across the fistular
-Scavity, a still more dense layer exists, not only within the diaphragm, but which, as shown
Zin fig. 41, is continued in a direct line across both the vascular and cortical zones; at the
exterior of the latter it merges in a second one (41,75) at right angles to the first, and which
Separates the base of the branch (41, m) from the main stem, In both instances, as
Salready shown, this dense layer truncates the vascular masses y and 2. The presence of
=this dense layer has perhaps something to do with one of the differences between the
Sbranches of Equisetums and Calamites, which in the former are yery much more persis-
Stent than the deciduous ones of the latter appear to have been. TI have shown that in
Sthe more matured stems of the Calamites the pith becomes wholly absorbed, which is
=not the case with the Equisetums. It may be urged that the reason for this difference
lies in the fact that the stems of the former have been much more persistent than the
Aannual growths of the latter. Such may be the case; but the distinction holds equally
good in the case of the permanent snbterranean rhizomes of the Equisetums, where
also the pith remains intact, not eyen becoming fistular. 'The existence of these rhizomes
in both instances presents another feature of resemblance; but as they occur equally in
many other Cryptogams, e. 9. the Marsileacee, they have little definite yalue in rela-
tion to the present argument. But this is not the case with the medullary rays that
abound in the Calamites. Of course we should not expect to see the 8econdary ones
represented in the Equisetums, because they do not possess the yascular laminz between
which these structures are located ; but if the canals (e, e) of Plate XXIX. fig. 42 represent
the similar ones in the Calamite, then the outward prolongation of the cellular pith («)

