|
mites. By W. C. WiLLansox, F.R.S., Professor of Natural History in Owens College,
Manchester.

Received November 11, 1870,—Read January 26, 1871.

A Few preliminary words may be necessary to prevent misunderstanding respecting the claims and objects
=pf* the following memoir. When T entered upon the investigation of which it records the results, T found, in
he writings of various British and ſoreign authors, a copious Calamitean literature ; but the widest discrepancies
evailed amongst them both as to Facts and to inductions. T therefore determined to pursue the 8tudy of this
Sroup of fossils as if de novo, to record the facts which T observed, and to draw from those facts alone 8nch
Anferences as 8emed legitimate, both facts and inferences being in a certain 8ense, and 80 ſur as was possible
r the cireumstances, new and original, But it necessarily follows that 80me of these facts and inferences
gre not absolutely new, though many of them, T think, will be found to be additions to our knowledge of the
—ubject ; whilst others, though not new, have presented themselves to me in a light different to that in which
have been regarded by my able predecessors in the study. Such being the object of the memoir, T have not
effeemed it deirable to include in it a record of all the observations made by preceding writers. As @ rule T
. Shave only referred to them when the discussion of some moot point rendered 8uch a reference neces8ary. The
ndamental aim of the memoir is to demonstrate the unity of type existing amongst the British Calamites.
=ZBrongniart, Dawson, and other writers believe that there exist amongst these plants two types of structure, the
ne Cryptogamic and Equisetacean, the other Exogenous and Gymnospermous ; on the other hand, Schimper
nd Carruthers regard the whole as Equisetaceous, gffording an example of the diversity of opinion on funda-
- mental points to which T have already referred. Of course, before arriving at their conclusions, Brongniart,
Qund those who adopt his views, had fully apprehended the exogenous structure of the woody zone of the Oala-
"nite, which is further illustrated in this memoir. The 8eparation of each internode into vertical radiating