\ in full-powered screw-steamers rather abaft the middle, and in auxiliary screw-steamers
very far aft. Wherever they come their weight obviously increases the downward
pressure at, that part very considerably; in some cases they cause, while in others they
exaggerate, an excess of weight over buoyancy, and in others they bring up the weight
yery nearly to an equality with the buoyancy. No general law can now be laid down
for the strains of all ships, and no general statement can be made to include all the
conditions in which any particular ship may be placed by means of variations in her
stowage or in the weights she has on board. Having given the details of the weights
2nd buoyancies of yarious parts, however, the calculation of the resulting still-water
Srains is practicable, but inyolves considerable labour. T have taken the cases of three
& four typical ships, and have had the DisTRIBUTION OF THE WEIGHT AND BUOYANCY very
Tarefully calculated and graphically recorded. Each example is a ship of modern type,
d the results are wholly unlike any which have before been published. In fact, owing
t the great labour involved, or to some other cause, only the most meagre and unsatis-
Eetory attempts to discover and exhibit the actual strains of ships have previously been
ade and recorded.
<= The first case represents the conditions of long fine paddle-steamers, of high speed,
Euployed as yachts, or blockade-runners, or on other services where great cargo-carrying
wer is of comparatively minor moment. 'The case I have elected is that of the Royal
-Eacht © Victoria and Albert,” and the diagram in Plate XVI. fig. 1 has been prepared in
der to indicate the distribution of weight and buoyancy. In making the calculations
Bquired for this purpose, the total length (300 feet) has been divided into 20-feet spaces,
ad transverse planes of division have been supposed to be drawn in order to form the fore-
1Bost and aftermost boundaries of the spaces. For each division of the ship the buoyancy,
e weight of the hull, and the weight of the equipment have been determined ; and the