moment due to unsupported weights at the extremities will more than counterbalance
the sagging-moment due to the excess of weight amidships, as is the case in the
© Bellerophon' and the © Audacious;* or the reverse may be true, as in the © Victoria and
Albert.”

The effect which alterations in the weights carried by a ship have upon the bending-
strains is well illustrated by the comparison of the curves MM in Plate XVII. figs.
10 &11. By removing all the weights except the engines and boilers, and altering the
curve of loads in the manner previously described, the curve of momentsin fig. 11 is made
to assume a very different form from that in fig. 10. Hereatter I shall have occasion to
refer to the principal points of difference; for the present it will suffice to say that in the
latter the greatest bending-moment falls nearly amidships, instead of in the after body as
before, notwithstanding the fact that at 80me parts of the middle body there is an excess of
weight. The amount of the greatest bending-moment when the ship is light is also
somewhat greater than that when he is fully laden ; and the curve MM in fig. 11 approx-
imates more nearly in form to that of the similarly marked curve for the © Minotaur”
(fig. 8) than it does in fig. 10, although striking points of difference still exist. Another
illustration of the variation in bending-moments which variation in the amount of the
weights on board a ship may produce is afforded by comparing figs. 10 & 12 (Plate XVII.);
and here we see also how, by reducing the excess of weight between the stations R' R* and
R* R*, we have rendered the curve MM in fig. 12 more nearly continuous in its concavity:
towards the axis than is the similar curve in fig. 11. The differences between these last
two curves have a special interest, on account of the fact that they are entirely due to
alterations in the s0wage of the weights on board, the total amount of weight carried
being the same in both cases. The greatest bending-moment in tig. 12 is found at the