&c.), but only three sections of maximum and minimum bending-moment in the latter
instead of five as before; while we have seen that another slight transposition of weight
would leave only one section of water-borne division and maximum bending-moment.
A comparison of the curves of bending and shearing in these two cases possesses further
interest, on account of the fact that when the curve V V in fig. 12 has a minimum Posi-
tive ordinate at R* R* instead of a maximum negative ordinate as in fig. 11, the maximum
and minimum ordinates of the curve M M at e& and d d' respectively in fig. 11 disappear,
and we have instead of them a point of contrary flexure in the curye M M of fig, 12.
Similarly, if the other transposition were made which does away with the two sections of
water-borne division @ &' and þ# in fig. 12, and turns the s8mall positive maximum shear-
ing-force at R* R* into a small negative minimum shearing-force, we should haye a point of
contrary flexure at R? R* instead of the maximum and minimum ordinates at « a and & 4
of the curve M M. In fact, from the relations which exist between the curves V V and
MM, it is obvious that at the balanced sections, where the shearing-force has maximum
or minimum values, the curve of moments has either points of contrary flexure (as in
all the illustrations we have given) or singular points where there is a change of cur-
vature. It may be added that we have by our construction swpposed the points of con-
trary flexure in the curve of loads to lie at the balanced sections where the curve crosses
the axis; and hence we may say that at the stations where the curves L L have maximum
ordinates the curves V V have points of contrary flexure ; in other words, the curve V V
bears a relation to the curve L Lsimilar to that which the curve M M bears to it *. The
broad practical deduction to be drawn from the cases represented by figs. 11 & 12 is,
however, simply this, that by transposing weights from the centre to the extremities we
render the curve of moments MM less tortuous, which is a matter of no consequence ;
but, we at the same time increase the maximum bending-moment which the ship has to