the idea put forth in my last paper; I spoke of the vessels in the centre of Lepidodendron selaginoides, where
they are intermingled with cellular tissue, as belonging to a medullary avis in contradistinetion to the exogenous
ring which enclosed them, and I then proceeded to show how, in other species, these yessels receded from the
centre to the periphery of that medullary axis, where they formed in every Lepidodendroid plant, except
L. 8laginoides, a distinct cylinder, and which T described not as a medulla, but as being homologous with 7
medullary sheath of the higher Exogens, which is a very different thing. The true medulla is the cellular
element, All my subsequent rescarches have tended to confirm these yiews. I neyer doubted for a moment
that these axial yessels represented the yascular bundles of living Lycopods.


OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES. 299

Tf I have correctly interpreted the facts just described, and I believe I have done
$0, the life-history of this plant throws an important light upon many of those described
in the last, or second, of this series of memoirs. How far the numerous plants there
referred to may prove to be different states of a few species is not easy to determine,
because we do not obtain them in that condition of stratigraphical isolation which has
afforded such an important help in the case of the Burntisland examples. In that memoir
I pointed out how closely some of the Lepidodendroid forms resembled Corpa's Diplozylon,
and how the absorption of the cellular medulla of some of them would actually convert
them into examples of the latter genus. It is necessary to remember that hitherto none
of the authors who have written on Diploxzylon have seen either its pith. or its bark.
& The last description of Diplozylon published, s0 far as Tam aware, with the exception of
Smy own memoir, was that by Mr. Bixxgy, who says of his specimen, © although it shows
Sthe s0-called medullary sheath in a very perfect state, there is nothing to indicate the