a muriform arrangement, but the cells are elongated vertically as in the medullary rays
of Calamites. T only meet with these in certain portions of my longitudinal sections ; but,
they look exceedingly like medullary rays, and are of course suggestive of a radial arrange-
2 ment of the vessels between which they pass outwards. They may, however, belong to
the bark. The vessels have a diameter of 0012; in many of them the transverse bars
have disappeared through imperfect mineralization, but in others they are sufficiently
distinct to demonstrate their nature, Immediately external to the vascular zone, I dis-
cover patches of oblong, fusiform prosenchyma (fig. 31, 9g); but we now come to a hiatus
(fig. 29, hk) from which the tissues have been displaced, but which has been occupied by
the middle bark. Small patches of the outer bark appear (fig. 29, 7) attached to the
inner surface of the epidermal layer. All these patches consist of the same oblong fusi-
form prosenchyma as that adhering to the exterior of the ligneous zone. Coupling these
facts with the additional one that all the numerous detached fragments of bark seen in
the specimen consist of beautiful examples of the same tissue of uniform size, unmixed
with any other; and arranged in parallel lines with the greatest regularity, I arrive at
the conclusion that the entire bark has closely resembled that of the plant indicated by
Plate XXV. fig. 8. At the junction of the outer bark (4) with the epidermal layer (7)
we find the usual transition of the fusiform into the tubular form of prosenchyma
(Plate XX VIII. fig. 32), which, as is seen in fig. 30, &, is still arranged in radiating lines,
until it 8uddenly passes into the parenchyma of the external epiderm and of the bases
of the leaves (figs. 30 & 32, 1). This parenchymatous structure is one of the most regular
and beautiful that I have met with. On making a tangential section of the bases of
the leaves, we find that they consist entirely of parenchyma, but with a point in the centre
of each scar, marking the spot where the vascular bundles penetrated the leaf, and where
the parenchyma is much more dense, consisting of much 8maller cells than elsewhere.