bones curiously illustrate, and are illustrated by, their counterparts in two very diverse
types of Vertebrata : they have precisely the same character, as bones, as those deve-
loped over the © orbito-sphenoidal” cartilage of the Sturgeon ; there, however, they con-
tinne as distinct *investing bones,” even to old age (ce adult Sturgeon's skull, with soft
parts modelled, in Mus. Coll. Surg.). In the Fowl, at the time of hatching, the orbito-
sphenoidal region (*Fowl's Skull,” Plate Lxxxtv. figs. 7 & 8, p.s.) is entirely membranous;
it has no ale growing from the presphenoid (ibid. Plate Lxxx11. fig. 11, 0.8., p.8.); but
in a few weeks #0 membrane-bones appear on each side, and these 800n graft themselyes
upon the presphenoid (see also Plate Lxxxvi. figs. 11 & 14, and Plate Lxxxy11. figs. 1 & 2,
0.8., Þ.8.). The single bone in the young Salmon grafts itself als upon the presphe-
noid exactly in the same way (Plate V. figs. 6, T, 9, 10, 0.8., p.8.) ; and not only s0, but
the upper edge of each plate splits and embraces the descending root-plate (fig. 10).
'That this is not done in the case of the Bird also, depends upon the fact that the
*culmen cranii ” growing backwards from the © ethmoid ” is arrested midway (ibid.
Plate 1xxxi1. figs. 2, 4, 5, Plate 1xxx1v. fig. 7, Plate 1xxxv. fig. 1, and Plate Lxxxyv1.
figs. 11 & 14, 0.8., eth.). There is no difficulty now in understanding the meaning of
the great interorbital bone of the adult Salmon (Plate VII. figs. 3, 4, 10, 0.8.), nor in
seeing why it is arrested in its growth downwards; in like manner the distinct pre-
sphenoid of the Fowl (op. cit. Plate 1Lxxxy1. fig. 1, p.s.) reaches no further downwards
than to the top of the trabecular Feel, in which the mesoethmoidal and basisphenoidal
oxsifications meet. Now we know that the primordial © notch ” between the upper and
lower retral median cartilages that grow from the ethmoid in the Salmon answers to the
secondary © fenestra” of the Bird, it becomes a question of intense interest as to what
the lower bar is, as well as how it comports itself. Here, in the Salmon, there is no
median ethmoidal ossification ; there, in the Bird, the basisphenoid borrows its ossifying