emerged from the alveolus. Seven feet further in from the entrance, and lying on the
aurface of the stalagmite floor, was the opposite ramus of the same mandible, having the
Silk-canine 8till #2 8/42 and the permanent tooth completely concealed in the alveolus,
we” the second permanent incisor is fully protruded and the third is just making
appearance. Near the same spot was also found the shaft of a very young tibia
Sicking in the stalagmite, and which, there is every reason to conclude, belonged to the
«me individual as the jaws and teeth. These bones are all in the most fragile and
Wicate condition ; and more especially is it to be remarked that the shell of bone
ogjyering the swollen germs of the permanent canines, and consequently in a much
posed part of the bone, is as thin as paper and as fragile as glass, or even more 80.
vertheless, except the injuries necessarily received by such fragile objects at or since
<a of extraction, they appear absolutely perfect. They are of a light colour and
Porous, in fact closely resembling the superficial bones generally. But it is a
sFange cireumstance that among these comparatively modern bones of a very young
Fear was found the ungual phalanx of an adult animal, nearly black in colour and a
g9od deal worn or weathered, and presenting all the characters of the most remote
aptiquity.
EA somewhat similar instance is afforded by the specimens included under Nos.
EVII., CVIIL., and CLIX. of the © Register,” all of which occurred from 10 to 16 feet
m the same entrance, some lying on the surface of the third bed, and some imbedded
Ii} the stalagmite. Amongst these bones are the shafts of the right and left humerus, of
th tibiz, and a left ramus of the lower jaw (s0me of the milk-teeth still in situ);
#End the occurrence of this part, as well as of the two tibiz, renders it probable that the
Iwnes associated with it all belonged to a second individual young Bear of about the
Same age as the one above described. All the bones are in the same light porous con-