more densely crowded together at fig. 22, f, than is usnal. Their more general aspect is
that presented by those on the left of the 8ame series, and by the second lower series in
the figure. On endeayouring to trace these medullary rays in sections made parallel
to their course (Plate IV. fig. 23), if we employ low magnifying-powers, we have no
difficulty in seeing that such sections are crowded with them ; but, owing partly to
the mall number of the cells disposed vertically in each ray, and partly to the exceeding
delicacy of their cell-walls compared with the coarser tissues of the vessels, it is a more
difficult thing to decipher their details where high powers are used. Plate IV. fig. 23, f,
exhibits their appearance under such powers. In many instances we see that the cells
in these latter sections appear to be almost cubical; but, owing to their limited number
in each ray, and the consequent absence of mutual pressure, their sides are more turgid
and their general aspect less mural than in other examples of Coal-measure plants. This
difficulty in tracing the details of their form is further increased by the fact that their
vertical divisions frequently coincide with those of the vessels, owing to the dimensions
of the two being correspondent in the radial direction. Nevertheless there is no real
difficulty in demonstrating that these organs exhibit substantially the ordinary structure
and arrangement of exogenous medullary rays.

I have already stated that the vascular elements of these stems differ from those of
the Oldham plant, in consisting wholly of barred yessels instead of reticulated ones.
Their general aspect is seen in the highly magnified portion of one of them represented
in Plate TV. fig. 24. But small portions of vessels frequently exhibit the aspect
shown in Plate IV. fig. 25; and it is easy to see that the reticulations of Plate 1.
fig. 6 are but modifications similar to those of Plate IV. fig. 25, only carried to a
much greater extent and occurring in every vessel. They are both modifications