Mr. Bixxey answers this question by affirming that it is the fruit of Calamodendron ;
and Mr. CanrvTuuRs, regarding it in the same light, says that it is the fruit of a Cala-
mite. The latter observer arrives at this conclusion under the conviction that Calamites
and Asterophyllites are identical plants. The spores throw little light upon this problem,
because they exhibit too generalized a form to indicate any special relations. Mr.
CanrvTHeRs has referred to the semispiral deposits in the cells of the sporangia as
representing the true spiral fibres in the sporangial cells of Zquisetum. But such
depoxits are not confined to Fquiseta. We have them in the corresponding sporangial
cells of Marchantia conica, in a condition much more closely resembling those of our
fossil fruit than do the Equisetaceous ones. The sporangia of our fossil yery closely
resemble those of Zquisetum both in their form, in the mode of their attachment to the
sporangiophores, and in the general aspects of the latter organs; but they differ in the
fact that only alternate verticils of the nodal expansions bear sporangia in the fossil,
whereas they are attached to every yerticil in the recent type. It appears to me that in
the former the sporangia are ruptured by detachment from the sporangiophore, instead of
by longitudinal ventral dehiscence as in the latter, When we come to the central axis,
the difference between the two types becomes increasingly manifest ; though even here
we are not without some curious features of resemblance. If we make a transverse
section through the node of a recent Equisetaceous strobilus, in the plane of & verticil of
sporangiophores, we see that the bark from which these sporangiophores spring expands
into a small lenticular disk, the structure of which is almost identical with that of the
8terile disks of Calamostachys, as scen in Plate VI. fig. 34, and proportionately different
from the corresponding section of the fertile sporangiophores represented by Plate VI.
fig. 36. Thus we have agreement between the recent and fossil types in the structure
of parts whose general aspects are 80 different, and differences of structure where the