structure in the two conditions of stem and root, both in its contour and in the arrange-
ment of its yessels, is most obvious. Its diameter, too, corresponds closely with that of
the axes of the larger aerial stems; the only difference that I can detect appears in the
larger size of its yessels, compared, for instance, with those of Plate IT. fig. 9. It will
be obseryed also that the laminz of the young exogenous growth curye away from each
of the angles of the central bundle in exactly the same fan-shaped manner as is seen
in Asterophyllites—an arrangement to which I have already alluded when I said that
the axis of Calamostachys Binneyans (Plate VI. fig. 38) exhibited some Asterophyllitean
features in its exogenous layer. The vessels of the exogenous layers of the root-structures
are much smaller than in the arial stems described. This difference may be merely
characteristic of a distinction between the roots and stems, or it may be due to the
circumstance that the roots belong to a different species from those of which I have
described the stems. The latter view is sustained by the fact that T possess several
examples of undoubted amyeloid* roots having the structure seen in Plate IX. fig. 59.
Some similar ones discoyered since this figure was drawn are not only much larger and
more perfect, but are invested by the characteristic bark of these amyeloid roots, re-
moving all doubt as to the generic identity of the entire series of specimens. Plate IX.
fig. 59 is drawn to the same scale as the corresponding sections of the arial tems. We
thus see that the vessels of the former correspond closely, both in size and arrangement,
with what we see in Plate IT. fig. 10, allowance being made for the non-existence in
Plate IX. fig. 59 of the central triangle. 'The closeness of these general as well as
detailed resemblances renders it probable that, whatever may be the case with Plate VII.
fig. 46, Plate IX. fig. 59 belongs to the same species as Plate II. fig. 10 and the allied
sections. We ee in Plate IX. fig. 59 the same tendency to the formation of crescentic
exogenous growths as appeared in Plate VII. fig. 46 & Plate IX. fig. 56.