blood-vessels are developed, the nervous system is often included within the latter. In
some animals there are further developed, from without inwards, ciliated tubes, sacs, or
pores, which communicate with the primitive vascular system, by means of which excre-
tion from the vascular system takes place ; and such an arrangement reaches its highest

. development in such forms as the 'Trematodes. It is, however, erroneous to consider
the main and necessary function of the primitive yascular system as excretory, since in
such forms as Bipalium it obviously performs many other circulatory functions, although
here, as in Trematodes, it may also sabserve an excretory function by means of the
ciliated sacs in the region of the head. Merrexs (oc. cit. p. 12, 1833) describes the
ganglia of Leptoplana as hearts, and the neryes given off from them as yessels. DuGis
held a like opinion (/0e. cit. 1, 1828). It seems highly probable that this is to be explained
by the fact that the nerve-ganglia of this Planarian, and probably of all others where
such exist, lie within a vascular sinus, a part of the primitive yascular system, and in
continuation with it, the sinus giving off branches in which the nerve-branches lie. I
cannot agree with KepersTery in 8upposing that BLaxcnar's injection of the sinus
round the ganglia of Leptopland and its branches resulted from unskilful manipulation,
and does not represent the true state of the case (KErRsTEIN, loc. cit.p. 21). I had
only one spirit-specimen of Leptoplana available for examination; but/in this the ganglia
were $een on section to be surrounded by a space occupied by loose spongy tissue, very
little stained by carmine and exactly resembling that seen in the vessels of Pipalinm,
and the nerves occupied broad tracts of similar appearance; and on a vertical transverse
section being made of the body, the two canals filled with spongy tissue were cut across,
exactly resembling those of Bothriocephalus in structure, and coinciding in position with
the large pair of longitudinal body-nerves. QuaTrEFAGEs (Sur les Planaires, p. 172)