* The facts thus indicated relative to the effects of temperature and vapour in affecting pressure 8eem to
explain the apparent anomalies that haye led some authors, especially Mr. Lav@nros (Phys. Geog. pp. 120,
123), to question the soundness of Havrer's theory of the trade-winds, Theso are, that winds do not blow
centripetally toward the Sahara, the Arabian Desert, the interior of Australia, &c., all of them dry regions with
a day temperature yery much aboye that of the neighbouring seas. In the first place Mr. Lavenzox has, |
think, insufficiently considered the fact that a high day temperature in these dry regions generally alternat
with a low night temperature, the nocturnal radiation þeing intensified by the same conditions which
increase the incident solar heat; 80 that the mean temperature of the 24 hours, one element of importance

in determining the general system of the winds in such regions, is frequently below that of places with a m
lower day temperature. £xz. gr., Lahore in April has a mean maximum diurnal temperature of 98%4,
one of 93%5; but the mean temperature of the 24 hours is only 791 at Lahore, while at Calcutta it is 849,
Further, the facts discussed in the text and tabulated at pages 589, 608, 609, show that in a dry atmosph of
paratively dry air, say 7000 feet in height, may have an average temperature 16? below that of tho s
while another equal column of moist air averages only 99 or 109 less than near the ground. Surface-tempera-
ture alone, especially that of the daytime, is a very unsafe criterion of the ayerage temperature of the
sphere above the place of obseryation ; but in the equatorial calm belt, to which region Mr. Laventos app
conclusions drawn from Arabia, Australia, &c., the atmosphere is highly charged with yapour, and the deo
of temperature with elevation therefore probably slow. .


MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA. 613

© The fall of pressure in December and January is, I think, evidently due to the rapid
condensation of the lower stratum of the atmosphere by the radiation of its heat, and,