difference between the static and kinetic values of the coefficient of friction. In the
case of dry metal surfaces both these writers are agreed that no difference can be detected
between the friction of rest and that of motion ; and we find that in such cases no change
takes place in the value of p as the velocity varies. Moiy also found that the friction
between unctuous metallic surfaces was the same or nearly the same for rest as for motion,
a result which agrees with the absence of almost any change of the coefficient of friction
in our investigation of Cases IT. & V. The friction between wet metallic surfaces is
not spoken of by CouLoa, and received comparatively little attention from Mons, who
does not say whether he found any difference between its static and kinetic values.
We have not seen any account of experiments on the friction between metals and agate.
As to the remaining sets of conditions, Morin says that he found no sensible difference
between the static and kinetic values of the friction of dry metals on wood (M&moire
i. pp. 104, 106). In fact, out of all the cases which we have examined, the only ones
in which there is known to be a marked difference between the friction of rest and that
of motion are those in which steel slides on oiled or wetted surfaces of wood, and in
these cases, and these only, we have detected a very considerable increase in the
coefficient of friction at very low speeds.

Although the varying want of balance of the disk, which has been already referred
to, was never 80 great as to throw any doubt on the fact that the rate of acceleration
did change in these particular cases (and we are unable to see any cause for the change
of the rate of acceleration except a change in the coefficient of friction), still it was
considerable enough to make the determination of the precise way in which the
coefficient changed with changes in the velocity a matter of the greatest difficulty. We
have been able to draw only very roughly curves connecting the coefficient p with the