'= Geology,” appears under the name of Dadoxylon Acadianum; a third is the D. annulatum ;
& and a fourth is the D. materiarium, all of which are in like manner described in the
Swriter's © Acadian Geology.
D In August, 1869, I published a brief memoir in the *Monthly Microscopical
SJournal,” in which I endeavoured to distinguish those stems in which the vessels were
'E merely reticulate modifications of scalariform tissue, from those in which vessels or
fibres exhibited true bordered pits or disks, such as are seen in the Conifer and other
Zplants. In making an examination of recent stems, in connexion with that inquiry, my
attention was arrested by some peculiarities in the vascular tissues of the Cycadec, a
Sfurther study of which led me to the following conclusion :—< I have for some time
Ebeen convinced that the discigerous vessels in Cycas revoluta, usually supposed to be of
= coniferous type, were in some measure modifications of scalariform tisxue. I have
= now found numerous vessels from the above plant which render the fact certain, since
b= they exhibit discigerous tissue at one end of the vessel, whilst it becomes scalariform
Sat the other extremity. My views on this point, when promulgated in private corre-
ha spondence with some botanical friends, were at once rejected by them ; but there is no
S xeas0n for questioning their correctness. I was not aware, however, when I came to
© this conclusion, that I had been anticipated by the late Mr. Dox, in a paper which he
read before the Linnean Society in 1840. The question is of some importance, since
Qit affects the possibility of a glandular coniferous fibre being developed out of a reticu-
lated one” *, The true nature, and still more the origin, of these disks seen on coni-
ferous fibres was exceedingly obscure up to a very recent period. Even HExpREy, in
his © Elementary Course of Botany,” speaks of © the existence of a lenticular cavity
between the contiguous outside walls of pitted cells, as in Coniferw (fig. 480),” and in
the figure referred to he represents this lenticular cavity as having walls of its own, in