MR. G. J. ROMANES ON THE LOCOMOTOR SYSTEM OF MEDUSZ&, 685

above the surface of the water by means of a disk of cork placed beneath it, and on the
part of the tissue thus raised there were placed a pair of platinum electrodes. These
electrodes proceeded from an electro-magnetic apparatus, which was arranged in such a
way, that every time the current in it was opened or closed it gave an induction-shock and
moved a lever at the same instant of time. 'This lever was therefore placed upon the
cylinder immediately above the capillary glass writer which proceeded from the Medusa,
care being taken to place the two writers in the same line parallel to the axis of the
cylinder, Such being the arrangement, the cylinder was rotated, and thus two parallel
lines were made upon it by the two writers. If the current was now closed, an induction-
shock was thrown into the tissue at the same instant that the electro-magnet writer
recorded the fact by altering its position on the cylinder. Again, as 800n as the para-
lyzed Medusa responded to the induction-shock, the radii of the vacant segment were
drawn apart, and in this way a curve was obtained by the other writer on the
rotating cylinder. Now, by afterwards dropping a perpendicular line from the
point at which the electro-magnet writer changed its position to the parallel line made
by the other writer, and then measuring the distance between the point of contact and
the point on the last-mentioned line at which the curve began, the period of latent
stimulation was determined. A glance at figs. 2 & 3 will render this description clear
to any one who is not already acquainted with the method, when it is stated that the
upper line is a record of the movements of the electro-magnet writer, and the lower
line that of the movements of the other writer. It will be observed that the point
@ in the upper line marks the point at which the induction-shock was thrown in;
80 that by first producing the perpendicular till it meets the lower line at 6, and then