$ 4. Strychnia.—In my former paper I confined my remarks with reference to
strychnia to the effects of this poison on a species of coyered-eyed Medusa. It seems
desirable, therefore, to supplement these remarks with a few additional ones regarding
the effects of this poison on the naked-eyed Medusze. In the case of Sarsia the symp-
toms of strychnia-poisoning are not well marked, from the fact that in this species con-
vulsions always take the form of locomotor contractions. The symptoms, however, are
in some respects anomalous. They are as follows :—First of all the swimming-motions
become considerably accelerated, periods of quiescence intervening between abnormally
active bouts of swimming. By-and-by a state of continuous quiescence comes on,
during which the animal is not responsive to tentacular irritation, but remains 80 to
direct muscular irritation, giving one response to each direct stimulus. The tentacles
and polypite are much relaxed. In a sea-water solution just strong enough to taste
bitter, this phase may continue for hours ; in fact till a certain opalescence of the con-
tractile tissues—which it is a property of strychnia, as of most other reagents, to produce
—has advanced s0 far as to place the tissues beyond recovery. If the exposure to such
a solution has not been very prolonged, recovery of the animal in normal water is rapid.
In a specimen exposed for 24 hours to such a solution, recovery began in half an hour
after restoration to normal water, but was never complete. In all cases, if the poisoning
is allowed to pass beyond the stage at which response to direct muscular irritation ceases,
the animal is dead.

On Tiaropsis indicans this poison has the effect of causing a general spasm, which
would be undistinguishable from that which in this species results from general stimu-
lation of any kind, were it not that there is a marked difference in one particular. For
in the case of strychnia-poisoning the spasm, while it lasts, is not of uniform intensity