compound line spectrum of oxygen, because, according to the theory of molecular com-
bination, it would be due to a more complicated molecular structure than the other
(the elementary) line spectrum. I must, however, add that I do not at all feel certain
that the two line spectra are necessarily to be explained the same way as the line and
band s8pectra. I have found ib necessary, for the sake of clearness, to explain the
results of the investigation in the language of a definite theory. It will be easy for
any one to separate the two. The fact that nearly all lines which make their appear-
ance at low temperatures only are lines which widen easily seems to be suggestive.

Spectra of the negative pole. —It has long been known that in many gases the glow
surrounding the negative electrode has a different colour from the remainder of the
discharge. This colour appears generally more blue to the eye than that of the posi-
tive discharge, and, this fact was the cause that a certain blueness was often ass0ciated
with the idea of negative electricity. When examined with the spectroscope, it is
found that the negative glow has a s8pectrum of its own, different, of course, in different
gases. Here, also, I think, it will be found simpler to assume that a definite molecular
combination is formed at the negative pole than to suppose that exterior forces pecu-
liar to the pole modify the period of vibration, The following experiments seem to me
to support strongly, if not to prove, this view. When the pressure is very small, the
spectrum of the negative pole is seen throughout the tube.* In vacuum tubes of the
form usnally employed ſor purposes of spectrum analysis, it is easy to obtain a state of
exhaustion in which they show the spectrum of the negative pole throughout that half
of the tube which contains the negative electrode (which I shall call the negative half),
and also in the capillary part, but not in that half of the tube which contains the
positive electrode (which I ball call the positive half). The experiments are supposed