8idered} the case of two thin rigid rings, the axes of the rings being any closed

* © Comptes Rendus,' tom. Ixxxiv., p. 1222, &c.

+ Not only Herr BierkNes, but several writers on the Continent 8eem to be unacquainted with this
paper of SToxrs, and also with Grerx's papers. KIRcnnory, in his © Vorlesungen itber Mathematische
Physik * (second edition, p. 227), says that DiricnLey first treated the motion of a sphere in a fluid in the
Monatsberichte der Berl. Akad.” in 1852, and CLepson that of the ellipsoid in 1856, in * Crelle,” Bd. 52,
BigRKNEs also repeats the same statement, and OLepscn in his paper regards DIRICHLET as the first to
solve for the sphere. Tn his paper DirIcnLEr says: * Wie es scheint, is bis jetzb fiir keinen noch 80
einfachen Fall der Widerstand, den ein in einer ruhenden Fliissigkeit fortbewegter fester K6rper von
dieser erleidet, ans den seit Euler bekannten allgemeinen gleichungen der Hydrodynamik abgeleitet
worden,” The fact is that Gree in a paper read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1833,
entitled © Researches on the Vibrations of Pendulums in Fluid Media ” (Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin, ; also
published in the Reprint of his papers, p. 313), and written without the knowledge of Potss0x's paper of
1831, « Sur les monyements simultan6s dan pendule et de Pair environnant,” treated of the motions of
an ellipsoid moving parallel to one of its axes. He obtains the velocity potential as an elliptic integral
for a motion parallel to an axis, which also of course contains implicitly that for the gphere, He shows
that ib is necessary to suppose the density of the body angmented by a quantity proportional to the
density of the fluid. For the case of the spheroids moving in their equatorial planes or parallel to their
axes he completely determines this quantity, whilst for the sphere he finds that it is one-half the mass of
the fluid displaced. The first place in which I haye been able to find the well known form of the yelocity
potential for a sphere is in STokss' paper of 1843 before mentioned. He obtains it as a particular case of
a more general problem, and refers to it as the * known '' yalue for the sphere, The equations of the
lines of flow were, I believe, first given by DrmcnLer,