their true vascular character is demonsbrated. I find this exogenous zone in 80 many
specimens that have attained the right stage of growth as to leave no doubt whatever
as to its being a normal feature of the plant. Whether or not we shall hereafter
discover it developed into the more perfect Diploxyloid condition seen in other
Lepidodendroids remains to be 8een, We were long before we found L. selaginoides
80 developed ; meanwhile its presence in L. Harcourt, even in this rudimentary form,
directly links that plant with the Diploxyloid or Sigillarian group of stems. In many
of my specimens some large isolated cells, fig. 11, b, appear in the zone b”, In the speci-
men from which fig. 11 was taken these are larger and more conspicuous than usual.
In fig. 9, a”, a considerable segment of the vascular medullary cylinder is detached
from the rest, leaving a hiatus in the cylinder, and carrying along with it a semi-
circular loop of the innermost bark, b', with its associated foliar yascular bundles.
In my memoir, Part IT., p. 224, I called attention to the fact that the large vascular
bundles s8eparated from the main cylinder to supply the tubercles of the Halone were
given off in the same way, and the bundle a” has doubtless had some similar destina-
tion. Such a division of the primary vascular cylinder differs only in amount from
the dichotomous subdivision of a branch illustrated in fig. 9. In another branch
of the same stem, contained in the nodule in which the example fig. 9 occurred,
I found a similar bundle, of which a representation is given in fig. 12, enlarged
21 diameters. In the branch bundle of fig. 9, the central yasculo-cellular mass, a”,
retains the concavo-convex form belonging to it as a small 8egment of a circle, and the
remark applies also to the dark-coloured layer of inner bark, b', which surrounds its
convex peripheral border ; but in fig. 12, the bundle a has assumed a more cylindrical
contour ; the dark inner bark, b, now completely invests the bundle in the form of a
six-8ided cylinder, whilst the contiguous cells, d, of the middle bark have re-arranged