the skin with moisture, and, perhaps, to the accompanying vascular turgidity. On
applying the electrodes to the skin previously prepared by soaking, the current at
once reaches a maximum from which it declines at first rapidly, then more and more
S lowly. On renewed make of the same current instantly after interruption the
AQ galyanometer shows that the current has not recovered its strength. On renewed
S make after another interruption of 30-60 seconds the galvanometer indicates that the
= current has recovered. If a current that has been allowed to flow until the galvano-
= meter needle has ceased to fall is xuddenly reversed, the current-strength is indicated
= to be greater in the new direction. These effects are such as would be produced, at
S least partially, by polarisation of the electrodes, and that this is s0 can be shown in
& the u8nal way by leaving the electrodes only connected with the galvanometer, either
Z in direct, contact with one another, or with the body intervening. Current is indicated
Z in either case, greater of course in the former. We observe another fact indicating a
5 fallacy to which the estimation of after-effects is especially liable, viz.: that after a
'5 given duration of current, with a given deflection of the needle, a given interval is
2 followed by a greater deflection which rapidly subsides to the original deflection—a
2 phenomenon which may repeat itself several times in guccession, and obtains whether
RS the electrodes are kept in broken or in closed circuit during the interval. Without
S committing ourselves to any positive statement, we may remark that our observations
led us to suppose that during the passage of the galvanic current, an opposed electro-
S motive force is developed within the body which rapidly subsides. But however this
—S may be, the importance of these alterations of current-strength as a source of fallacy
Z are obvious, and they especially concern the question of after-effects. We have not
E been able as yet to assign to them their exact share for and against the-manifestation
Z of the after-effects. But we have, we think, succeeded in demonstrating the rough