Thus, the action of the picric acid is of twofold significance, not only serving as a
vehicle for the passage of the HorManN's blue into the minute protoplasmie fila-
ments, but also restraining at the same time the coloration of the cell-wall.

It now only remains for me to describe in detail my method of manipulation with
Chlor. Zine Tod. and the picric acid solution of HorMANN's blue. Sections of fresh
material are cub in water and placed in ordinary iodine solution until they are
well s8tained. They are then taken out by means of a platinum lifter, the iodine
80lution is removed with blotting paper, and they are mounted in Chlor, Zine Iod. In
those cases where the blue colour is nob produced until after some time, it is usually
possible to see something of any threads that may be present, and thus many very
conclusive observations may be made prior to staining with picric-HoEMANN's-blue.
In fact, treatment with iodine will often bring oub clearly many points that Hor-
MANN'S blue will not, such as a satisfactory demonstration of the passage of the threads
through the substance of the middle lamella, where the lamella is well developed.
Further, the threads appear thicker than with HorMANN's blue, and in any case the
treatment will give some idea of what one may expect to ee after staining with the
aniline dye. The time that Chlor. Zinc Tod. requires to act depends greatly upon the
character of the tissue. With many dry endosperms and other cells with thickened
walls ib will take as long as twenty-four hours to thoroughly permeate the tissue. In my
own experiments I was in the habit of mounting in Chlor. Zine Tod. on one morning
and staining on the following day. If not allowed to act for a sufficiently long time,
it will be found that while some portions of the walls are swollen, others are hardly
acted upon, and that the difference of refractive index of these two portions will give
a very confusing appearance to the whole section, and very greatly hinder 8uccessful