in its prevalence. It would be easy to enumerate many actual cases in which the
8afety or loss of a ship has been determined by this inequality. Though the existence
of snch an inequality in particular places has long been known, its laws have been
misunderstood : for example, it has been supposed always to affect the morning and
evening tides in opposite ways, which is only an accidental and local expression of its
rule, Mr. LuBBock* has published the mode in which he has obtained it for Liver-
pool, while Mr. Bywarzsr, who has introduced it into his Tide-Tables for that port,
and Mr. Buxr, who is constructing Tide-Tables for Bristol, have also collected this
inequality from observations. But the connexion of the inequality, as it exists in
different parts of the world, was never brought into view till the discussion of the
European and American observations of last June. The laws which the inequality
follows when thus considered on an extensive plan appear to me to be yery curious,
as they result from this examination of the facts; and I now proceed to explain
them. :
- 23, The inequality is most clearly een in the heights of high water. I exhibited
the results in curves, by erecting a series of ordinates at equal distances to represent
the heights of the successive high waters above a fixed point at each place ; and the
curves which were thus produced showed, in most places, a series of parallel zigzags
(the tides being alternately higher and lower); and these curves were 80 regular, and
80 exactly accompanied each other, as to prove both the goodness of the observations
and the existence of the diurnal inequality. This was the case, in the most marked
manner, on the coast of America, where scarcely any exception occurred. Next to
this, the inequality was conspicuous, especially during a portion of the series of obser-
vations, on the coasts of Spain and Portugal ; then on the west coast of France, the
coast of Cornwall, and parts of the west coast of Ireland: on the shores of the Ger-