of which has been made smooth by turning it in a lathe. When a single candle is
brought near such a plate, a line of light appears standing out from it, one half being
above, and the other half below the surface; the position and inclination of this line
changes with the situation of the light and of the observer, but it always passes
through the centre of the plate. On closing the left eye the relief disappears, and the
luminous line coincides with one of the diameters of the plate; on closing the right
eye the line appears equally in the plane of the snrface, but coincides with another
diameter; on opening both eyes it instantly starts into relief#. The case here is ex-
actly analogous to the vision of two inclined lines (fig. 10.) when each is presented
to a different eye in the stereoscope. It is curious, that an effect like this, which
mnust have heen seen thousands of times, should never have attracted sufficient at-
tention to have been made the snbject of philosophic observation. It was one of the
earliest facts which drew my attention to the subject I am now treating.

Dr. Surea+ was very much puzzled by an effect of binocular perspective which he
observed, but was unable to explain. He opened a pair of compasses, and while he
held the joint in his hand, and the points outwards and equidistant from his eyes,
and somewhat higher than the joint, he looked at a more distant point ; the com-
passes appeared double. He then compressed the legs until the two inner points co-
incided ; having done this the two inner legs also entirely coincided, and þbisected
the angle formed by the outward ones, appearing longer and thicker than they did,
and reaching from the hand to the remotest object in view. The explanation offered
by Dr. Sura accounts only for the coincidence of the points of the compasses, not
for that of the entire leg. The effect in question is best seen by employing a pair of
straight wires, about a foot in length. A similar observation, made with two flat