diminished by maceration. This circumstance affords a condition to prove the exis-
tence of the sarcolemma; for as long as that is entire the fibrillee are kept together,
though but very loosely united, and merely fall asunder at the broken extremity,
where alone they have space to do 80. Thus the brush or tassel is formed, which is
described and delineated by more than one writer, and which by showing the strize of
the same size as the beads of the fibrillze, and here and there passing gradually unto
them, convinced Foxrana®,and afterwards ScuwanxrF; of their true composition. Some-
times, by accidental violence, a recent fasciculus may be reduced to a pulpy mass, in
which fragments retaining their striz are strewn in confusion, while the sheath may
remain uninjured, and preserve all these parts from falling asunder (figs. 37. 38.).

But there is another method by which the existence and some of the properties of
the s@rcolemma may be demonstrated. This depends on the fact that its contents
swell considerably when subjected to the action of several fluids, especially acids and
alkalies. Phosphoric, tartaric and citric acids, and potash, are what I have em-
ployed most commonly. The $heath dilates at first, but s00n grows tense ; the effect
of which on the fibrillz is, that they emerge at its open extremity, where the fasciculus
has been broken off, and there swell in diameter; or if their union is but slight,
expand in all directions into a roundish mass or button. Occasionally, in thus emerg-
ing, they curl back upon itself the rim of the sarcolemma, which then is seen to grasp
them till more tightly (see fig. 47. a. «.). But if this vent be insufficient, and espe-
cially if the fragment be long, s0 that its ends cannot be reached 800n enough, the
oyer-distended membrane gives way, bursting at detached points, and allowing the
escape of the contents. The herniz thus formed (figs. 39. 40.) admit of easy and
close scrutiny by the microscope. They are very peculiar, and curiously illustrate