and a circular figure, and after 80me consideration he pronounced the one a $quare
and the other a disc. His eye being then closed, the cube was taken away, and a
disc of equal size substituted and placed next to the 8phere. On again opening his
eye, he observed no difference in these objects, but regarded them both as discs.
The solid cube was now placed in a somewhat oblique position before the eye, and
close beside it a figure cut out of pasteboard, representing a plane outline prospect
of the cube when in this position. Both objects he took to be something like flat
quadrates. A pyramid, placed before him with one of its sides towards his eye, he
Saw as a plain triangle. This object was now turned a little, 80 as to present two of
its 8ides to view, but rather more of one side than of the other ; after considering and
examining it for a long time, he said that this was a very extraordinary figure ; it was
neither a triangle, nor a quadrangle, nor a circle; he had no idea of it, and could not
describe it; * in fact,” said he, * I must give it up.” On the conclusion of these ex-
periments, I asked him to describe the sensations the objects had produced, where-
upon he said that immediately on opening his eye, he had discovered a difference in
the two objects, the cube and the sphere, placed before him, and perceived that they
were not drawings; but that he had not been able to form from them the idea of a
Square and a disc, until he perceived a sensation of what he saw in the points of his
fingers, as if he really touched the objects. When gave the three bodies (the sphere,
cube, and pyramid) into his hand, he was much surprised that he had not recognized
them as such by sight, as he was well acquainted with these solid mathematical
figures by his touch. These experiments prove the correctness of the hypothesis I
have advanced elsewhere on the well-known question put by Mr. MoLyxzux to Locks,
which was answered by both these gentlemen in the negative, and has been much
discussed since their time.