The inferior longitudinal, or ganglionic 8et of fibres (fig. 5. a) of the cord, affords
many interesting considerations. It is placed, exactly as in insects, on the under
surface, but like the upper series it is narrower than the whole cord, of which it forms
a part. It is formed of a longitudinal series of fibres, like the upper tract, beneath
which it is placed, and from which it is divided by some of the fibres that pass trans-
versely through the cord, and which enter into the composition of the nerves from
the ganglion on either side. It appears also to receive filaments from the upper
series, and perhaps others are sent from it to the upper, thus decussating each other
in the middle substance of the cord, where these two longitudinal series are in close
apposition ; since it is almost impossible, even in the large neryous cord of Scolo-
pendra, to separate these two tracts from each other, although their distinetness is
evinced in their relative size and longitudinal lines of separation. But there is one
fact of great interest in regard to this ganglionic series of fibres. Almost the whole
of the fibres of which it is composed are traceable, in the Iulide, directly through
each enlargement of the cord, which they mainly assist to form. At the anterior part
of each enlargement the diameter of each fibre, or fasciculus of fibres, appears to be
slightly increased, and its structure becomes more softened and delicate. While
passing through these ganglionic enlargements, occasioned chiefly by their own in-
creased diameter, the fibres take a slightly curved direction outwards, and then in-
wards, but are reduced to their original size, and assume the longitudinal direction
on again forming the aganglionic portion of this tract of the cord. This structure of
the fibres is well seen in the Julide and Polydesmide (fig. 7. i), as I shall hereafter

* De Functionibus Neryorum, Bern. 1839. (Vide Bay's MLL.) + Op. cit.
? Miuuur's Elements of Physiology, second edit. vol. i. 1840, p. 771.