and shows that though they differ considerably from each other in some respects,
Still a very intimate relation exists among them. Mr. Scavunck first observed that
when lecanoric or erythric acids are boiled with an excess of any of the alkalies,
orcin and a carbonate of the alkali are invariably produced. Mr. Scuuxck was of
opinion, and in this he has been followed by Messrs. Rocareper and Herpr, that
orcin and carbonic acids are the only products of this decomposition. We have
already seen that this decomposition is by no means $0 simple as these gentlemen
supposed; that, first of all, intermediate acids are always formed, and that in the
case of the erythric and evernic acids, orcin is not the only ultimate product, but
that pseudo-orcin and evernesic acid are also invariably obtained. Though orcin
may be procured from (alpha) and (beta) orsellic acids, from erythric acid, and from
lecanoric and evernic acids, they are not all of them equally suitable for this purpose.
By far the best way, in fact the only way, of procuring colourless orcin, is to boil the
(alpha) and (beta) orsellesic acids or erythrelesic acid in water from half an hour to
an hour, when a great deal of carbonic acid is given off, and on the solution being
concentrated and set aside to cool, abundance of colourless crystals of orcin are depo-
Sited. If a little animal charcoal is kept in the solution while it is being concentrated,
it will be found useful in preventing any tendency to oxidation. I think it will also
be found, though I have not had the opportunity of trying the experiment, that when
lecanoric acid is neutralized with lime or baryta and boiled for a short time, it will
be decomposed like orsellic and erythric acids, and yield an acid similar to the orsel-
lesic and erythrelesic acids, which I have no doubt, by simply boiling in water, will
also be converted into colourless orcin. By long-continued boiling with water,
(alpha) and (beta) orsellic and erythric acids may no doubt be slowly converted into
orcin without the intervention of an alkali. An immense amount of boiling is how-