side the ray, and polarization on the opposite side, snperinduced by flexion, that
those two sides only being affected, the other two at right angles to these are not at
all affected by the flexion which has disposed and polarized the two former. Con-
sequently, although an edge placed parallel to the disposing edge and opposite to it
acts powerfully on the disposed light, yet an edge placed at right angles to the former
edge or across the rays, does not affect them any more than it would rays which had not
been subjected to the previous action of a first edge. Thus (fig. 19) if ab ed be the
Section of the ray, an edge parallel to ab, after the ray has been disposed, will affect
the ray greatly, provided it had been disposed by an edge also parallel to ab. The
sides a 6 and cd, however, are alone affected; and therefore the second edge, if placed
parallel to a d or bc, will not at all bend the ray more or make images (or fringes) more
powerfully than it would do if no previous flexion and disposition had taken place. Let
us see how this is in fact: ef'g h is the distended disc after flexion, by passing through
the aperture of the two-edged instrument (Plate XI.). It is slightly tinged with red at
the two ends f'g and eh, beyond which, and in the shadow of the edges, are the usual
fringes or coloured images by flexion and disposition, e, c, the edges being parallel to
eh,fg. Place another edge at some distance from the two, as 3 or 4 inches, and
parallel to these two, but in the light, and you will see in the disc a succession of
narrow fringes parallel to the edges, and in front of the third edge's shadow. These
fringes are on the white disc, and their colours are very bright, much more 80 than
the colours of those fringes described in Proposition I., and which are fringes made by
deflexion without any disposition. But whether this superior brightness is owing to
the glare of the disc's light being diminished by the flexion of the first two edges, or
not, for the present I stop not to inquire. This is certain, that if the third edge be
placed across the beam, and at right angles to the two first edges, you no longer