whatever to the relations which subsist between the ehylaqueous system and that of
the true blood; he has not defined the difference in the mechanism of solid nutrition
as it occurs respectively under the agency of these two orders of fluids. M. Quarae-
FAGES has Seized no one clue to the demonstration of the capital law of structure, viz.
that the system of the blood-proper only first appears in the series at the Echinoder-
mata. Unguided by this great and novel principle, he could not perceive that a
blood-proper system could not exist, as it was not required below the Echinodermata.
He affords no proof of having known that the chylaqueous system of fluid is governed
physiologically and chemically by laws distinct from, though not less definite than
those which regulate that of the true blood. He has accumulated no individual ob-
servations il[ustrative of the histological characters of the morphotic elements, either
of the chylaqueous fluid, or the true blood. M, QuaTReracts appears also to bave
been totally unacquainted with the interesting fact announced in this paper, that in
histological structure, the corpuscles of the chylaqueous fluid are as definite and
constant as those of the blood of the higher animals. It thus appears that, although
the views of M. QUaTREFActs and those advocated in this paper proceed for a short
distance in parallelism, they s0on diverge towards two very different destinations*.

* Having tated in the text, in general terms, the most prominent features which distinguish the admirable
memoir of M. QuaTrzracss from this paper, I am here dexsirous that this meritorious observer should speak
for himself, and that my observations (submitted to the Royal Society six months before the adyantage
occurred to me of perusing the original memoir of M. QuaTrzzyracss) should be fortified and justified by the
independent researches of one 80 much better known to European science. I only cite 80 much of the memoir
of M. Quarrzzracrs as really bears upon the subject of this paper, I quote entire his observations on the
microscopic examination ** du liquide de la cavite generate :—* Chez les Invertebres, dont la cavits generale