nified 350 diameters. They vary 80 much among themselves, and according to the
size of the specimen, that exact measurements of individual examples would yield
no useful results. In Cribella oculata (fig. 10) the cells of the chylaqueons fluid
are more globular in figure; the largest are distended with secondary cellules, and
nucleated, the involucrum of the maternal cell being more distinct than ordinary in
other genera. In this species also, the granular matter of the fluid is wanting ; nitric
5; acid, however, gives an obvious opacity.

In the ZEchinidc the blood presents a slightly higher grade of development than that,
of the Asteriadz, and the digestive canal is furnisbed with a second orifice. The canal
is always found to be filled with solid ingesta, composed for the most part of sand
and clay. These characters constitute important zoological features. 'Ihey explain
the fact of the diminished bulk and pure water-like appearance of the contents of
the peritoneal cavity in Echinus. I have proved, as conclusively as a negative pro-

peritoneal space ; there are therefore no oyxx perforations in the parietes of the digestive czca, From the
interior of the latter organs into the former space, no fluids therefore can pass but by exosmosis. When a
fresh, living Asterias is immersed in fresh sea-water, coloured with cochineal or carmine, and allowed to
remain thus immersed for about an hour, and then carefully washed in clear sea-water, and then opened, it will
be found that the contents of the peritoneal cavity are perfectly free from the smallest trace of the coloured
fluid, while it may be always, under the conditions of this experiment, detected in the interior of the caca.
These and parallel observations prove that Asterias continually, and for the purpose of feeding, draws into the
stomach a large volume of water, sending by a determinately directed pressure, a portion into the caca, and
rejecting the remainder again by the mouth. Of hundreds of living, healthy Starfishes which I have dissected,
it is remarkable to relate, that not one has ever contained anything whatever in the stomach. The primary