a just construction of the meaning of M. QuaTReraces, as expressed by himself in the preceding passages, to
state that he nowhere gives any clear proofs of having recognised in the fluid of © la cavite generale du corps”
a 8ysfem of circulation, definite and distinct in its laws, which, in the lower Invertebrata, replaces and represents
that of the blood-proper as it exists in the vertebrated animal. 'The justice of this criticism is rendered unde-
niable by the tenour of the following observations ;—* Chez les Invert6br6s dont la cavite generale communique
avec Vinterieur, la maniere dont Vair est mis en rapport avec les principes qu'il doit modifier est 6vidente, et rezulte
du fait m&me de Vintroduction d'une eau acerce...... La respiration du liquide de la cavit6 generale est plus
difficile a reconnaitre chez les Invert&br6s dont la cavit6 gen6rale est enticrement close,” In the first remark he
uppoxes that the fluid of the visceral cavity is the azrating medium, not itself the subject of the respiratory change.
By the second observation he admits that the part performed by the chylaqueous system of fluid, in the Echi-
noderms and Annelids, in the mechanism of respiration, is difficult to understand. In this critical analysis of the
valuable memoir of M. QuaTRzzracss * On the General Cavity of the Body in the Invertebrata," I have, I think,
clearly shown that there is scarcely anything in common either between the facts or arguments therein given,
and the carefully recorded dissections and observations upon which I have ought in this communication to
rest the superstructure of an important physiological law.
* Annals and Magazine of Natural History, by Mr. Carter, August 1849.
+ See Observations on the Cilia of Sponges in Goops1r's Annals of Anatomy and Physiology, May 1852.


CHYLAQUEOUS FLUID OF INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 603

every species, the seat and scene of the processes of digestion, sanguification and
respiration ; it is, in addition, the direct agent of nutrition. It is chbyme, chyle and
blood in itself. In the zoophyte it is the only fluid element of the organism. In the
tentacles of Tubularia indivisa, the fluid of the visceral cavity can be distinetly seen