In every Mollusk* yet examined the blood has been found to be colourless, not
colourless like distilled water, but like very dilute milk. It is more coagulable than
any variety of chylaqueous fluid; and from its viscidity it is undoubtedly more
highly charged with the fibrinous principle than the latter. This fact results neces-
sarily from the circumstance, that it constitates in itself the entire fluid element of
nutrition in the Mollusks, and that it is the eat of direct corpuscular agency. In
this series the blood is invariably corpusculated. The proportion of the floating cells
to the fluid varies however in different orders. In the Bryozoa and Tunicata, these
bodies are relatively scanty. In the Cephalopods they are very numerons. Hereafter,
in the progress of physiology, the law will be established, which recognises a vital
proportion between the measure of corpusculation, presented by the fluids and the
* place* of an animal in the series. One unaided observer cannot adventure apon a
generalization which should have for its basis a multitude of © facts.” It is a remark-
able /aw, which has now been demonstrated to preside over the blood of the articulate
and the molluscan series, that in scarcely a single instance is it the seat of colour.
In all cases except that of the Annelida the pigment is developed only in the cells of
the solid structures. Among vertebrated animals, colour, and only the red colour,
prevails without exception. Why should the blood-proper of the Annelids constitute
an exception to a rule which applies to all other classes within the wide bounds of
the invertebrate subkingdom ? These are queries pregnant with undelivered meaning.

The Bryozoa, the lowest of the Mollusks, possess no vestige of a true-blood system.
Neither a heart nor vessels under any shape can be discovered in any species. The
nutritive fluid occupies the visceral cavity. It is imperfectly corpusculated, and
oscillates in its containing chamber under the agency of muscular contractions. The