writers on the other side would have hit this apparent blot, if they had been able
to see it. An accidental passage in a memoir of DE Morvrs led me to suspect
the omission above described : and the Assistant Secretary, on my application, was
good enough to examine the records of the time and to supply it. The biography to
which I allude is the * M6moire sur la vie et sur les Gerits de Mr. ABranam Ds
Morvss ....par Mr. Mary. A la Haye, de Vimprimerie de H. ScasurLEER, F. 2.”
(12mo, no date). This Mr. Mary must have been Dr. MaTTaew Mary, who, as well
as his son, was a secretary of the Society, He was the intimate friend of Dz Morvse,
and he mentions Dr, Bircu as having consulted the registers of the Society for him on
different points. He states that Ds Morvrs was appointed on this committee on
the 17th of April (the true date), and gives all the names. He also states that this
transaction drew Ds MoivRe out of the neutrality which till then he had observed.
It is remarkable that Mary thus intimates that the mere fact of joining the Com-
mittee was destruction to the character of a neutral, And Burner himself, a
member of the Committee, is stated by Joun BzRrnouLLi (in his correspondence with
Le1pxrrz) to have written a letter to him, giving him the information that the Royal
Society was engaged in proving that LeiBxiTz might have seen certain letters of
Newrox, &e. These slight things tend to show that the Committee in question was
thought at the time not to be a judicial body, but one of avowed partizans : and it is,
I think, necessary for the character both of the Committee and the Society, that this
truth, as I believe it to be, should be acknowledged. On any other supposition than
that the Committee was meant to be Newtonian, for the defence (through Ke) of
Newrox, and not for the decision of the question, it would be difficult to explain
with credit to the parties concerned, the selection of ArBuTHNOT, BurxEeT, and AsToN,
friends of Newrox, but not known as mathematicians ; or of Brook TayLos, a Fellow