analogue of the Purkinjean vesicle, and with its fellow, was believed to give origin to the head and foot of the
animal. A single body was also noticed in Lymnevs by Povcaer (Sur le developpement de I'Embryon des
Lymn&es, Comptes Rendus, July 1838, pp. 86, 87), and by him likewise was thought to be the Purkinjean
vesicle set free from the yelk. But Saxs observed two vesicles in Tritonia, Eolis and Doris (Wizcmanx's
Archiv, 1837), and Vax Bexevex found two in Limaz agrestis (MiLLEs's Archiy, 1841, p. 180) and
Aplysia depilans (Annales des Se. Nat. tom. xv. p. 126. pl. 1. figs. 4, 7, 9, 1841), and remarked that in both
species these bodies come from the yelk before segmentation is commenced, and that their presence indicates
that the body of the Limaz will be formed on that side of the yelk at which they appear. Nevertheless Vax
Bexevex, observing that they are suspended for a time in the transparent fluid which surrounds the yelk from
which they proceed, believed that they become dissolved in this fluid and do not take any direct part in the
formation of the embryo; and although he appears to have regarded them as the representatives of the Purkin-
Jean vexicle, he seems to have doubted whether this body plays the important part which has been attributed
to it in the higher animals. At the same time he called attention to the fact of the constancy of these vezicles
in Lymneus, Limaz and Aplysia as meriting consideration. Yet Karscn, who afterwards saw the vesicles in
Lymnaus (Wiz@xaxN's Arch. xii. 1846, p. 255), thought their presence an abnormal condition. The late
Dr. J. Rerv, however, saw them in Doris bilamellata (Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist. June 1846), and F, MirLer
in the eggs of Limapontia (Wizexaxx's Arch. 1848, p. 1); and although Voc failed to notice them in
Acteon, he appears to have seen them in Limaz, and his remarks (Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3"* s&rie, tom. vi. 1846)
as to their disappearing in the albumen, coincide with those of Vax Bexepe.

In the Nudibranchiata, NoxpMaxx appears to have observed at least one of the vesicles in Tergipes Edwardsii,
although he refers to it as a little yesicle © of air” separated from the yelk (Ann. des Sc. Nat. 3* s6rie, tom. v.
1846, p. 143).

In the Acephalous Lamellibranchiata one vexicle at least has been noticed in several genera. It has been