and B, represent the increase of the chemical action with the insolation, and the descend-
curves the diminution on withdrawal of the light from series of observations A and B.
he horizontal line represents, as in the figs. I., I., II., the maximum action, which,
we shall hereafter show, is proportional to the time of exposure.
-2 We have explained the fact, that the mixture of chlorine and hydrogen does not
Smbine in the dark to form hydrochloric acid, by the supposition of the existence
E5 a certain resistance to combination which is overcome when the gaseous mixture is
Sposed to light. This resistance to combination can be considerably increased by a
Sriety of circumstances. The presence of a very small quantity of foreign gas in the
rmal mixture of chlorine and hydrogen is sufficient to cause this resistance to be
Mcreased to a very great extent.
EZ Experiments made for the purpose of determining the influence of such impurities on
He sensIbility of the gas are subject to a great difficulty, owing to the fact, that in
Srder to avoid all the disturbing phenomena of absorption and diffusion, it is not, possible
Aerely to add the foreign gas to the normal mixture in. the insolation-vessel, but it is
necessary to allow the impurity as well as the chlorine and hydrogen to pass for hours
through the liquids of the apparatus until the absorptiometric equilibrium is completely
established. It is perfectly useless to collect the electrolytic gas in a large vessel, then
to mix it with the impurity, and afterwards to allow the mixture to pass through the
apparatus, for there is no possible means of collecting this pure mixture of chlorine and
hydrogen in large quantities and again forcing it out in a given direction. We have
overcome this difficulty by evolving the gas, which was to serve as the impurity, electro-
lytically with the same current which gave us our normal gas, 80 that the foreign gas
was allowed to pass through the whole apparatus in company with the chlorine and
hydrogen. By separating a secondary current, which was led through two separate