remark in view and comparing fig. 1 with fig. 10, plate 4 of M. Acass1z Atlas, the
resemblance of both phenomena will at once be perceived. The glacier ice, like the

compound, I think it may be predicted that it will destroy the longer undulations. For the present I will
avoid speculation upon this subject, and confine myself to facts. If we examine the list of solid substances
whose power to transmit radiant heat instantaneously have been examined by MeLLoxr, we find that those
at the lower end of the list, that is, the most imperfectly diathermanous substances, all contain hydrogen.
In no single case, where this element occurs, is the substance capable of transmitting rays from a 8ource of
752% Faur. ; while in every case where it does not occur, the power of transmitting rays from this source is
manifested in a greater or less degree. Amber, gum, citric acid, alum, sugar-candy, tartrate of potash and
80da, are the substances which exercise this destructive agency upon the longer undulations ; #ce being the
most non-diathermanous transparent body hitherto examined. Turning to MerLoxT's list of liquids, the
same fact reveals itself. There is a sudden fall in the power of transmission at the place where hydrogen
enters the list. Protochloride of phosphorus transmits 62 per cent. of the rays incident upon it, but the
next substance, hydrocarburet of chlorine, transmits only 37 per cent. From this point to the end of the
Table the substances named all contain hydrogen, the list being closed by distilled water, which transmits
only 11 per cent. of the calorific rays from an Argand lamp.

To the same element, IT believe, is to be referred the difference between Sir W. HerscneL and SEEBECK
as to the place of maximum heat in the s0lar spectrum. Hrurscner found this place to be beyond the ex-
treme red, but SEEBECK, with a prism of sulphuric acid, found it to be in the orange, while with a prism of
water he found it in the yellow. MzLLox1 has shown that this is due to the destruction of the less refran-
gible rays by the two liquids, the sulphurie acid being regarded by him as acting in a manner analogous to
water. In both the water and the sulphuric acid used by SEEBECK, I believe the hydrogen to be the agent
which gives the obseryed character to the results. The colour of ice and water is also a necessary Conse-