diately after reflecting the skin, within the first few hours after the death of the animal, takes a much
longer time to coagulate the blood shed from the xame yessel after the lapse of half an hour or 80; doubtless
in consequenee of escape of ammonia having occurred in the interval. This cireumstance seems to prove
that the ammonia is free in the blood in its -normal condition within the vessels, and not merely liberated:
during the process of coagulation ; for it is to be remembered that the, mere wounding of a yein in no way:
interferes with the fluidity of the blood in it, except at the wound. |

+ After the blood has lain for 80me time in the angle between the skin and the limb, it coagulates, if
removed from it, much more rapidly than blood freshly shed from a vessel. Thus, in one case, blood let
out; from a vein was part of it placed at; once on a glass plate, and part allowed to run into the angle
between the skin and limb. That onthe glass plate was not completely] coagulated for ten minutes; but
that in the other situation, having been left for twenty minutes, and then transferred to the plate, was &
consistent clot within six seconds, indeed as 800n as I could examine it. This fact 8eems to me to throw
great light upon the 8ubject of coagulation. The sudden ,transition from perfect fluidity to a eoagulum
can only be explained, I conceive, on the hypothesis that the ammonia had almost all escaped while the
blood lay in the angle; yet this escape had not caused coagulation. Hence it seems to follow, that am-
monia is in no way essential to the fluidity of the blood while it is surrounded by healthy tisxues. Another
point, which the simple experiments upon the sheep's foot show clearly, is that a certain amount of am-
monia in the blood will retard without preventing the deposit of fibrine upon a needle or other ordinary
slid introduced into the vessels; and it appears yery doubtful whether healthy blood eyer contains sufſicient
ammonia to prevent 8uch an occurrence.


MR. J. LISTER ON THE BARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. 675
