MR. J. LISTER ON THE BARLY STAGES OF INFLAMMATION. 675

been observed to remain fluid but. coagulable in the tunica vaginalis, seems to show
-8erous membranes are similarly cireumstanced ; and it appears probable that the
may be the case with other tissues.
ut though some of the facts above mentioned furnish clear evidence that ordinary solid
-— matter induces coagulation by an attractive agency, it by no means follows that the tissues
In are necessarily merely neutral in their conduct towards the blood in this matter. Tt is
quite possible that they may: exert an active influence upon it, in consequence of which
the particles of fibrine may experience a mutual repulsion, in the same way as would
- geem to be'the case with the pigment-granules of the chromatophorous cells of the frog
during the process of diffusion*. Indeed some snch hypothesis seems almost necessary
Q in order to explain the remarkable fact, that the blood coagulates within a few hours of
© death in the cavities of the heart and great venous trunks, though it retains its fluidity
S for days in the smaller vessels. Thus in the human subject twenty-four hours after death
S Thave found clots in the heart and larger veins, including the upper parts of the axil-
5 lary and femoral trunks, but fluid blood in the lower parts of those vessels and all their
= branches in the limbs. It seemed possible at first that this difference might depend on
= the position of the great vessels in the thorax and abdomen, where decomposition be-
Z gins earlier than in the limbs. But this proved not to be the case; for in a horse twelve
= hours after it had been Killed, I found the blood fluid in the intercostal and small
= cardiac yeins, though coagulated in the yena cava and the coronary vein of the heart,
> which is in that animal of very large size. There being no reason to snppose the walls
= of the larger vessels differently constituted from those of the smaller ones, or more
£ liable to undergo post mortem changes, the natural interpretation of these facts seems