far from the free extremity, the band carries a double current, one tending towards and
the other out from the general cavity. This is only apparent; it arises from the agglu-
tination of two portions of the ciliated tube. If this part were examined alone, it might
be concluded that the entire organ was double, bearing a double current, one going in
and the other setting out from the general cavity. This apparent double current in the
mid-portions of the organ proves a source of extreme perplexity to the observer. By
careful observation it may be distinctly seen that both at the attached portion (e) and
the free floating portion (#) the band is 8mall and the current single. Tt will now be
; understood that the double currents, setting in opposite directions, which are seen when
the middle third of the tube (7, g, h) is in focus, result from the folding of the tube upon
itself. Insignificant as this point may seem, it involves in truth the important questions
whether the segmental organ be single or double, whether it carries one current or two,
whether in fact it consists of a simple siphon leading out of the general cavity, or of a
complex apparatus adapted at once to excrete and to renew the chylaqueous fluid. The
8olution of this problem involves great care and patience.
< At its free internal extremity (A, 6), this organ is held in a determinate position by

means of bridles of delicate threads fixed at (4). This arrangement is one of great in-
terest, since the free open end (A, 6) is thus held in a fixed position, one in which it can
never become obstructed. By the action of the large and vigorous cilia (A, 6), a strong
current of fluid is drawn into this open mouth (see arrows, fig. 1, A). At a short distance
from this extremity, which is itself trumpet-shaped, the tube undergoes a remarkably
bulbous enlargement (c). Here the interior bore or channel is also dilated. The walls
are thick and muscular, and capable of snddenly closing and again of expanding ; a
rhythmic movement, which no doubt is intimately connected with the power of this organ