s$tromatous tissue as already described in Nereis, Sabella and Serpula. Well-defined and
repeatedly conducted observations have convinced the author that the latter, and not the
former, is the case. In the Ariciadz especially, it may be observed that the peculiarly
areolated tissue in which the ova are contained is distinguishable into two parts, one of
which is densely and intimately connected with the blood-vessels (se fig. 16; fig. 17 ch),
the other forming a mere utricular receptacle to the generative elements (fig. 17 a, a;
fig. 15 0). There is no doubt .that that portion (fig. 17 e h; tig. 16 46) which is ulti-
mately bound up with the vascular system, is designed to supply a fluid secretion, from
the blood-proper, which is necessary to the further growth of the generative produets.
This illustration confirms what has been constantly observed during the foregoing
descriptions, that the blodd-proper system in the Annelids is much more intimately
connected with the process and the organs of reproduction than the chylaqueous fluid,
This important fact implies evidently a difference of vital and chemical compoxition in
these two fluids. The higher fluid is used for a higher purpose, the lower for a lower.
The segmental organs in the Ariciadz occupy the floor of each annular compartment
(as shown in fig. 17 45 and 75).

The genus Nerine, first defined by Dr. JonNns0N, affords by far the most favourable
conditions for the study of the segmental and reproductive systems of any of the Nereid
families. The coast near Swansea is inhabited by three species of this genus (viz. IV. vul-
garis, N. comocephala, N. beata (mihi). 'The last, and unfortunately the rarest, is beyond
comparison the best adapted for the purposes of the present investigations. In this ele-
gant worm the entire apparatus (as represented in fig. 18 «6 c and a bc) may be readily and
clearly defined by the eye. It is here quite easy to demonstrate the connexion between
the ciliated tube (fig. 19 @ b) and the appended mass (Cc c c) of the germinal products.