- the interior of these thickened petiole-bases, like the bundles of roots on the adult plant,
_— (fig. 22). On the base of the petiole of the first leaf T found two rootlets; the petiole
of the second leaf emitted three ; those of the third, fourth, and fifth each four rootlets.
© The $tructure and development of the rudimentary stem on which these leaves and
- rootlets are borne, agree very closely with that of germinating Monocotyledons,—for
Finstance, with that of the Grasses; the vertical section (Plate XXX. fig. 26) shows this.
= nting the scattered arrangement and crossings of the vascular bundles, and the
 Sabsence of any pith. The vascular bundles of the rootlets (7 r) are directly continuous
with those of the stem ; but, as in the full-grown rhizome, the vessels occupy the absolute
centre of the root, according to the Dicotyledonous type, and do not form a ring round
—p central cellular axis, as in the roots of Monocotyledons.
'S The mode of germination here described appears somewhat anomalous ; but if, as the
\ Facts appear to indicate, the general arrangement of the axial organs approximates to
:Zhe Monocotyledonous rather than the Dicotyledonous type, it is permissible to seek
Smong the germinating seeds of Monocotyledons for parallels, in spite of the presence
two distinct cotyledons here. The point of view I should feel most inclined to take
'2s, that while two cotyledons do actually exist, these become dissolved in germination,
She primordial leaf of the embryo assumes the usual characters of the single cotyledon
Sf s1ch Monocotyledonous embryos as those of Palms, its radicle and petiolar portion
Ftigelle) emerging from the orifice in the seed-coats, and giving origin, between the
Sadicle and the base of the first legf, to an elongated internode upon which the second
caf is seated*. The chief difference would be that in the Palm embryo the bud is
FSnclosed in the interior of the * figelle* of the cotyledon, while in the Victoria the bud
bY naked on the side of the * 7igele,” opposite the primordial leaf (or third cotyledon), 80
hat it need not break out from the interior of the elongated *« 7igelle,” as in the Palm.