expression of the fact that it is the last or lowest they work. That there are till lower
beds is certain, since Mr. Driver says, © I sank a shaft about 13 feet” (below the bottom
of the pit) © and cut two tolerable beds of coal.” 'The workmen speak of still earlier and
deeper borings, and state that thin layers, or © shells,” of lignite were found separated
by thick beds of © muddy clay.” Omitting these traditions, however, we are now in
possession of the following figures. The 72nd, or *last ” bed is, at the western end of
the pit, about 100 feet yertically below the surface of the plain ; or, measured at right
angles to the plane of stratification, we haye, to the base of this bed, a thickness for the
deposit of 125 feet*; the pit beds have been followed 80 feet lower, and lignite has
been cut 13 feet below the s0-called © last” bed; giving an aggregate of 218 feet,
inclusive of the © Head,” or upwards of 35 fathoms for the true Bovey deposit ; exclusive
of the beds mentioned by Mr. Diver as occurring in his shaft 135 fathoms south of the
pit, and irrespective of the facts that the bottom has certainly not been reached, and that
there are sufficient reasons for believing, as I shall now proceed to show, that denudation
has swept away very much of the superior portion of the formation.

Though no trace of a * fault” exists at the pit, one has been detected a short distance
east of it. © It runs,” says Mr. Diyerr, © about N.E. and S.W., crossing close to the
old engine-shaft” (56 fathoms east of the pit). *I drove towards it in many places,
and always found the * coal” fail and replaced by hard and wet *deady* clay. At one
place I drove further and cut into a bank of sand full of water, which ran into the shaft
and *starved* the pump for some time. T never got through the sand, and had great
difficulty in keeping it out of the shaft. This was at about 80 feet from the surface.
The section of the beds in the” (old engine-) © shaft is identical with those in the pit.”
The accompanying diagram (fig. 2) may serve to illustrate the foregoing facts. Let the