5 ub of growth in which they might possibly assimilate free Nitrogen. We shall refer
Ato this objection again further on. At present we confine attention to the important,
Zfuct, that active growth has taken place—that the process of cell-formation, with the
S accompanying one of the decomposition of carbonic acid and the fixation of carbon, has
=gone forward with a deficient supply of combined Nitrogen, and in the immediate pre-
ence of free Nitrogen, and yet none of it has been assimilated. 'The plants have in fact
Sheen subjected to a considerable range of the conditions which were considered, & priori,
Sto be fayourable to the assimilation of free Nitrogen ; and yet this has not taken place.
S It is a fact observed in agriculture, that manures rich in organic matter frequently
| Eavour the growth of Leguminous crops. We shall not here discuss the question
Swhether these organic manures, as such, act simply as a source of carbonic acid, or of
Scarbon compounds of a more complicated character. We would, however, call attention
Sto the fact that, in the case of the experiments now under consideration, the vital forces
Syere sufficiently energetic to perform the function of cell-development and multiplica-
-Stion, from carbonic acid as its source of carbon; yet these forces, capable of effecting
=this result, have been incapable of effecting the appropriation of free Nitrogen.
E
ba 9 Buckwhedat.
J The evidence afforded by the numerical results in the Table XII. relating to this
Zplant is not of 80 decisive a character as that with regard to the cereals, or even to the
ZLeguminous plants; for the quantity of dry matter in the produced plants is less than
that in the seed sown, whilst the Nitrogen in the plants is little more than one-third
that of the seed. But when we come to compare the results of the experiments with
Buckwheat grown with and without the snpply of ammonia, it will be found that the
physiological evidence of the dependence of vegetable growth upon a constant supply of