vertical tube, of a bore small enough to retain a little liquid index by its own adhesion.
The lower bulb was protected by a metallic coating ; the upper or sentient bulb was
blackened, and was placed m the concavity of a polished metal cup, which protected
it completely from terrestrial radiation. * This instrument,” says its inyentor, © will at
all times during the day and night indicate an impression of cold shot downwards from
the higher regions. + . . . But the cause of its variations does not always appear 80
obvious. Under a fine blue sky the Athrioscope will sometimes indicate a cold of
50 millesimal degrees ; yet on other days, when the air is equally bright, the effect is
hardly 30*.” Tt is, I think, certain that these anomalies were due to differences in the
amount of aqueous vapour in the air, which escaped the sense of vision. LESLIE him-
self connects the effect with aqueous vapour by the following remark :—* The pressure
[apparently a misprint for presence] of hygrometric moisture in the air probably affects
the indications of the instrument.” In fact, the moisture opened and closed an invisible
door for the radiation of the *sentient bulb” of the instrument into space. The follow-
ing observation in reference to radiation-experiments with PoviLLet's pyrhbeliometer,
now receives its explanation. © In making such experiments,” sys M. SCHLAGINTWEIT,
* deviations in the transparency are often recognized which are totally inappreciable
to the telescope or the naked eyes, but which afterwards announce themselves in the
presence of thin clouds,” &c.

In his beautiful essay on Dew, WELLs gives the true explanation of the formation of
ice in India, by ascribing the effect to radiation. I think, however, his theory needs
supplementing. Given the same day-temperature here as at Benares, could we, even in
clear weather, obtain a sufficient fall of temperature to produce ice? I think not.
The interception of the calorific rays by our humid air would too much retard the chill.