ickness in the ventricular wall is traceable to the fact, that the outermost and inner-
:2most layers extend further towards the apex and base than those which come next, and
Sthexe, again, further than those which succeed them, and s0 on until the central layer is
Freached—this being of least extent, and confined indeed to about the middle third of
Sthe ventricle. 'Thus into the apicial portion of the ventricular wall, where thinnest, only
Zone layer enters, viz. the superficial or first external*. Into a second portion, a little
Zabove the apex, two layers enter, the first and the seventh ; into a third or higher portion
four, viz. the first and the seventh, the second and the sixth ; while into a fourth, or still
Shigher portion, which corresponds with the upper part of the middle third, the whole
Szeven layers enter. Tracing the thickness of the ventricular wall in an opposite direc-
Stion, 5. 6. from the base towards the upper part of the middle third, the same changes
Qpresent themselves, although in a less marked degree. Thus the extreme base consists
of two layers, the continuations in fact of those forming the second part of the apex;
the second portion of four, the third of six, and 80 on—an arrangement which accounts
for the yentricular wall being thicker towards the base than towards the apexf.
Recapitulation of facts connected with the left ventricle (Mammal). Before leaving
the left ventricle, it may be well to recapitulate briefly the points more particularly
dwelt upon. They are the following :—

* This portion of the ventricular wall is formed by the external fibres turning round in a circular direction,
to alter their direction and become continuous with the internal, the external and internal fibres, in virtue of
their spiral direction, not crossing each other until removed an appreciable distance from the apex.

+ The septum also tapers in two directions, more particularly when, as in the present demonstration, it is
regarded as forming part of the left ventricle.