lares being generally three in number and small. In the heart of the sheep the carne
columnt are more fully developed than in the preceding, the musculi papillares being
sometimes two in number, and sometimes three (Plate XIII. fig. 19, A). In the heart
of the pig, leopard, and calf (Plate XIV. fig. 43) the carne columne are still more
strongly developed, and appear in the form of thick muscular spiral ridges (0), which
slightly intersect each other and cross the floor of the ventricle (7'), the musculi papil-
lares being sometimes two (hh), sometimes three, and sometimes four in number. In
the porpoise, dugong, mysticetus, and human heart (Plate XIV. fig. 44) the carnee
column are more or less reticulated, particularly in the two latter, the musculi papil-
lares varying from two to four (4h h" 1"). This increase in the number of papillary
muscles in the right ventricle, which might at first sight seem to interfere with the
bilateral distribution of the fibres im the primary or typical ventricle, is accounted for
by the fact that in the right ventricle the muscular fasciculi, from which the papillary
muscles spring, do not, always coalesce as in the left yentricle, but remain permanently
apart. 'The musculi papillares of the right ventricle are less distinctly spiral than those
of the left, and are somewhat flattened to suit the concavo-convex $shape of the right
ventricular cavity. They occupy the septal wall posteriorly (A ), and the right
ventricular wall anteriorly (4k). Tn the right ventricle, as in the left, many of the
fibres of the carnew columne (Plate XIV. fig. 43, 0) are continuous at the base with
corresponding external fibres (4 f), such of them as are not continuous, together with
the musculi papillares, being rendered 80 by the intervention of the right auriculo-
ventricular tendinous ring (Plate XIV. fig. 43, and Plate XV. fig. 46, n'), the chorde
tendinew, and the segments of the tricuspid valve (Plate XIV. fig. 44, 7).

Muscular valve of the right ventricle of the bird, how formed?