2 their spiral course, they diverge or spread out to assist in forming the inner and free
Z leaf (4 9) of the muscular fold (Plate XIV. figs. 39, 40, & 41, g)—one portion bending
2 over in graceful spiral curves (Plate XIV. fig. 40, i) in a direction from within outwards
E and from below upwards, to become continuous with the superficial or external fibres at
2 the base, a second portion bending over in like manner (&”) to become continuous with
Z certain fibres from the upper third of the second layer of the septum and left ventricle
S posteriorly, a third portion (e”) pursuing a similar course to unite with the fibres from
& the upper third of the third layer of the septum and from the left ventricle. If that
surface of the dependent or free leaf of the valve which is directed towards the right
& ventricular wall be examined, a fourth portion (4) is found to be continuous with the
E fibres of the upper third of the fourth or transverse layer. The muscular valve of the
S bird may therefore be said to be composed of the fibres entering into the formation of
= the several layers of the right ventricular wall, (the ventricular wall in fact bifurcates
8 or Splits up towards its base,) the external layers forming the outer wall of the valve,
the internal layers, which are slightly modified, forming the inner. It is to this splitting
up of the right ventricular wall towards the base (Plate XIV. fig. 41, &) that its greater
tenuity in this direction, as compared with the right ventrieular wall of the mammal
(Plate XV. fig. 49, f), is to be traced. Tf the muscular valve be regarded as an inde-
pendent formation, which it can scarcely be, it will be best described as a structure
composed of fibrous loops, these loops being of three kinds and directed towards the
base—the first series consisting of spiral nearly vertical fibres forming a s0mewhat acute
curve, the second series consisting of lightly oblique spiral fibres forming a larger or
wider curye, and the third series consisting of still more oblique fibres and forming a
ﬆtill greater curve. As the fibres composing the different loops act directly upon each
other during contraction, the object of the arrangement is obviously to supply a move-