In the specimens Nos. 2 & 3 the outer radiating cylinders are nearly an inch and
a half in breadth of thick-walled tubes, or elongated utricles arranged in radiating
series, and diverging from a circular opening, while in BroxGNlaRT's Sigillaria elegans
the outer radiating cylinder was not more than 45th of that breadth. Probably my
specimens may not prove to be of the same species as that of the celebrated Autun
specimen, till they may be of the same genus, although of considerably greater age.
But they have the greatest resemblance to the Sigillaria vaseularis described by me in
a paper read before the Geological Society, and printed in its Journalf. All the speci-
mens described in that communication, as well as those in the present one, were obtained
by me from the same seam of coal, but at different places, still the two, namely, the
large ribbed and furrowed specimens and the s8mall rhomboidal scarred stems, are
always found associated together, and they can be traced gradually passing from one into
the other. 'These facts, when taken in connexion with the similarity of structure in the
central axis, the internal radiating cylinder, the space filled with lax cellular tisswe
between the latter and the outer radiating cylinder diverging from circular openings,
clearly prove that the smaller specimen is but the young branch of the older stem, No. 2.
It is true that the earlier authors who have written on these plants, would scarcely have
admitted a ribbed and furrowed Sigillaria to have been s0 intimately connected with
a rhomboidal scarred plant, but it is now generally allowed that 8nch differences in
external characters would afford no grounds for ignoring the structural similarity of the
Specimens. Undoubtedly the small Sigullaria vascularis was part of a branching stem ;
for in my cabinet there is a.specimen clearly showing two internal radiating cylinders just
at the point where the branches dichotomized, as shown in woodcut (fig. 2), 80 often met
with in Lepidodendron.
