with DaLTox, not only by what operations water is composed, but what water is? What
is the nature of ponderable matter as revealed to us by the science of Chemistry ? To
this inquiry also, in the only form in which such an inquiry is real and intelligible, the
symbol supplies an answer. This answer is given by interpreting the symbol with
reference to the results of the operations. The unit of water (Sec. I. Def. 10), we may
reply to such a question, is an integral compound weight (Sec. T. Def. 7) of which the
whole is identical with the two simple weights (Sec. I. Def. 8) « and £ of Section VII.,
which we recognize as simple weights from the fact that in the total system of chemical
transformations these weights are not distributed (Sec. I. Def. 12). The science of
Chemistry, we may add, affords no further information whatever as to the composition
of water than that which is comprised in this assertion, which is not only the true but
the only real form of answer which it is possible to give to inquiries as to the chemical
composition of ponderable matter. There is no difference whatever, as regards facts,
between this and the preceding statement; the difference lies in the way in which the
facts are regarded. From the former point of view we consider the operations, from
the latter the result of the operations. The symbols of geometry have a similar double
interpretation. They may be regarded, with equal truth, as the symbols of lines and
surfaces, or of the operations by which lines and surfaces are generated.

A symbol, however, should be something more than a convenient and compendious
expression of facts. Tt is, in the strictest sense, an instrument for the discovery of
facts, and is of value mainly with reference to this end, by its adaptation to which it is
to be judged. Now in the present paper I have considered not only the principles of the
chemical calculus, as regards the formal construction of symbols, but also the primary
application of these principles to the construction of a special symbolic system. In