Lixx8, snivie par M. ps Lamarck. Une Encrine west pour ainsi dire qu'une Comatule
renvers6e, en supposant meme que cette position ne soit pas 6galement naturelle a
celle-ci, ce que je suis fortement port6 & penser, et qui, au lieu de se cramponner & Taide
des rayons access0ires, est fix6e par le prolongement de la partie centro-dorsale.” He"
divides his family Asterencrinidea into two groups, the free and the fixed; the only
representative of the first being Comatula, whilst in the second he includes all MiLERs
genera of Crinoids, with the addition of the genus Phytocrinus, which he created for the:
reception of Mr. J. V. Tnouesox's Pentacrinus Europeus, regarding it (and with reason)
as not, properly referable to the genus Pentacrinus. He enters at length into the struc
ture of Comatula, the skeleton of whick he describes correctly enough, whilst in regard
to its oft parts he falls into some remarkable errors. Thus he states that the furrow
which runs along the axis and the lateral pinnules of each arm is provided with © cirrhes
ventousaires,” which serye to enable the animal to seize its prey ; the fact being thab
these tentacula are not in any degree prehensile, and have no concern whateyer in the
acquisition of food. Again, whilst correctly describing the mouth, he states that the
stomach has no second orifice, but terminates posteriorly in a blunt point; and that
which Laxanck regarded as the mouth, and which English authors had rightly taken
for an anus, he affirms to have no connexion with the alimentary canal, but to be a Pr
longation from the © general cavity of the body,” adding the suggestion that it may be
the respiratory outlet, or may be subservient to the function of locomotion, or may be

the termination of the oviducal canal. On this point he confesses himself unable t0
speak confidently, not having sncceeded in discovering ovaries in the only individual
which he disected ; but he surmises that in changing its place the animal may make
use of its © yessie abdominale,” contracting it upon the water with which it had been