In a few instances only have they been actually separated from the structures containing
them, while in no case have they been completely examined from a chemical point of
view. $0 far as I can learn, we have no exact information as to the amount and the
deportment, chemical constitution and reactions of those substances which M. BoGpa-
xow®, 8ome twelve years ago, succeeded in extracting from the feathers of many birds,
and notably from the red feathers of Calurus auriceps and Catinga carulea. Before
giving an outline of my own experiments in this direction, I will mention the particular
circumstances which led to the prosecution of the present research.

A few years ago Mr. W. B. Tex6eTMBIER pointed out to me a singular property of the
red feathers of the bird called the Touracon, or Plantain-eater. These feathers yield
up a part of their colouring-matter to pure water, a beautiful rose-coloured solution
being thus obtained. Mr. TE6ETMEIER'S attention had been drawn to this fact, and he
at once perceived that it was worthy of fuller investigation than it had already received.
On further inquiry, I find that Mr. Warp of Wigmore Street had noticed the evan-
escence and solubility of the red tint in question many years ago, and that other ob-
servers, within the last few years, have even sncceeded in staining pieces of paper with
the red s0lution which these feathers yield. In order that it may be seen what was the
position of the inquiry when I commenced in 1866 my experiments on this subject, I may
cite the authority of some private letters which have been placed at my disposal through
the courtesy of Mr. HuGy Owgx. These letters were written by Dr. Bexaamix Hibs.
principal Medical Officer on the Military Staff at Bathurst, on the Gambia. In one of
his letters, dated May 1865, Dr. Hixps enclosed a piece of paper stained with the red
pigment of 1 inch of a feather of the violet Plantain-eater, Musophaga violacea. He
s8ays that the moment s0ap touches the feathers the colour runs, but that it is difficult