to read through the cloud a page which the cloud itself illuminated. In fact the cloud
was a comet's tail on a s8mall scale. It proved that matter of almost infinite tenuity is
competent to shed forth light of similar quality, and in far greater quantity than that
discharged by the tails of comets *.
'These facts render the statement intelligible that even when all reasonable precautions
appear to have been taken it is not easy to escape every trace of chemical action on
firss charging the experimental tube even with an inert substance. In my earlier
experiments, when distilled water only was employed to cleanse the tube, the first
experiment with air alone was sure to develope an actinic cloud of a beautiful fern-
leaf pattern. And eyen now, after the most careful employment of the soft s0ap and
Hot water, the first charge of pure nitric, or of pure hydrochloric acid often developes a
blue and exceedingly delicate actinic cloud. As regards the optical question, these irre-
gular clouds exhibit some of the finest effects. One additional fact will illustrate a class
of disturbances already touched upon. Pure nitric acid had been proved over and over
again to exhibit no visible action; but after having demonstrated its inertness, a case
occurred where it produced rather dense actinic clouds five times in succession. Indeed
there seemed to be no end to their possible development. The only thing to which this
change from inertness to activity could be ascribed, was a change in the cerate used to
render the ends of the tube air-tight. On examination it was found that the infinitesimal
effluyia yielded by the new cerate to the nitric acid was the sole cause of the anomaly.
Nitric acid, then, produces no actinic cloud ; hydrochloric acid produces no actinic cloud ;
air passed throughout potash and sulphuric acid produces no actinic cloud, no matter
how powerful or how long-continued the action of the light may be.

#® The action here referred to has been since developed into a formal hypothesis of cometary phenomena, T