about 260 feet, broke, on the ayerage, about 2 inches, some ships proving weaker than
wEthers, and the breakage in one case (that of the * Gibraltar ') amounting to 4 inches on
= length of 200 feet. Our finest screw frigates, which are 300 feet long, broke from
to 4 inches; the © Galatea,' 280 feet long, broke 3 inches. Shorter ships, of course,
Tzually broke less than these long fine ships. Iron ships, I need hardly say, display very
tle change of form or breakage when launched, the character of the materials and
KAstenings used in their construction being 80 much less yielding than those employed
EY wood ships, 80 that they resist more successfully strains of equal intensity.
SThe severest 8trains connected with the launching of ships are, however, those which
Fcasionally result from partial launches. The well-known case of the early iron ship
Prince of Wales illustrates this statement ; as, owing to an accident to the launching-
ar, she was left ſor some time with her bow resting on the edge of a wharf and her
Kern supported by the water—in fact suspended by the extremities; but although s0
Sverely strained no breakage took place. Another case in point is found in the wood
Ene-of-battle ship © Czesar,' which stopped on the launching-ways at Pembroke Yard in
$853, and remained for seventeen days with about 64 feet of the stern unsupported by
ound-ways. 'The result was that the stern drooped about 2 feet in a length of 90 feet.
<= Asimilar but more recent case of stoppage in launching is that of the iron-clad frigate
orthumberland,” which in March 1866 stopped with about 52 feet of the after part
4nsupported, and remained in that position for thirty days. The weight of the unsup-
Tprted part may be roughly estimated at 440 tons, and the moment of this weight about
e aftermost point of support at 11,700 foot-tons. At the corresponding station in the
inotaur,” when afloat in still water, the bending-moment is about 9200 foot-tons, and
Shen supported on the crest of a wave of her own length, the bending-moment is about
12,000 foot-tons. Now the © Northumberland,” although a sister ship to the * Minotaur,”