constituting the extremity of the angle do s0, since I find them to be distinctly deflected
in the direction of the new growth. It is obvious that the vascular axis of this branch
consists of a mass of vessels, some of which may be derived from the extremity of one
angle of the central triangle; but the greater number of which certainly consist of the
small yessels of the exogenous layer, which here radiate in converging lines from that
angle. We thus obtain our first glimpse of the special use of the three alternating
groups of small vessels seen in transverse sections of these stems, viz. to afford the vas-
cular supplies required by some of the lateral appendages. If this is a correct inter-
pretation, there arises for further inquiry the interesting question whether or not the
yerticillate lateral branches are grouped with angles of divergence of 120*; or, in other
words, are they arranged in ternate yerticils, as appears to be most probable? I haye
found no example like the one just described amongst my Oldham specimens. But this
is doubtless accounted for by the fact that nearly every one of the latter, in connexion
with which I have found the nodes, have been young terminal twigs, as indicated by the
regularity with which the leaf-bases remain in 8tu: consequently all their lateral buds
were as yet undeveloped.

The bark of Plate V. fig. 27 obviously exhibits the innermost layer (4) in a contracted
or compressed condition, whilst the outer one (#) is of fully double the thickness of that
seen in the large stem, Plate IV. fig. 21. This enlargement corresponds with what we
have already $een in the transverse section of the nodal disk in Plate IIL. fig. 16, and
leaves no doubt on my mind but that the former is also a nodal section. There is no
doubt, therefore, that the Burntisland plants exhibited the same nodal expansion of the
bark that, we find in the Lancashire type. It will further be observed from Plate V.
fig. 27, g', that the inner and middle barks accompany the branch in its outward course, as