
On turning to vertical sections of these petioles, we discover that nearly all the vessels
are either of the barred or of the spiral type. The large ones are chiefly of the former
class, the spirals being mainly found amongst the smaller ones. Fig. 8 represents a
longitudinal section of a bundle from the same specimen as the transverse section
(fig. 7). The largest vessels are here seen at d, yet smaller ones at d', and others still
smaller at d”, Fig. 12 represents a single spiral vessel from the same section as fig. 7.
The $piral is here formed not by one continuous thread, as in most Exogens, but by at
least four parallel ones, as is 80 common amongst Palms. Carefully prepared sections
of vessels like fig. 12 demonstrate that these are not modifications of reticulated tissue,
but true spirals, since the threads of lignine seen crossing each other are shown by such
sections to belong to the opposite walls of the yessels. In Captain Arrkex's plant I
found a very few unmistakably reticulated vessels. I have already mentioned the fact
that these vascular bundles are aggregated with varying degrees of compactness. In
fig. 7 a considerable quantity of cellular tissue is interposed between the larger vessels ;
and on turning to fig. 8, a we see two of these sets of intervascular cells, each of which
consists of three or four vertical rows of rectangular cells having a diameter of from
-002 to :0006. Occasionally these cells are almost cubical, but they are usnally elon-
gated in the direction parallel with the vessels between which they are interposed. At
figs. 8, e & 10, ewe find a similar series of cells constituting an imperfect sheath to the
vascular bundle. In the transverse section this sheath is often either absent or at least
imperfect. In fig. 13 we have portions of two of the large vessels (@) of a yascular
bundle from Captain Armex's specimen with part of its inyesting sheath at e, e.
The cells of the latter graduate rapidly into the ordinary interfascicular parenchyma.
