'= Excluding the reults of a few explosions of marked exceptional character as regards
A the 89lid products furnished, and those produced under the lowest pressure, which were
= naturally expected to yield yariable and discordant results, there is considerable
= similarity, not only between the products furnished by pebble powder when exploded
= under different conditions as regards pressure, but also between the results obtained
S with this powder and with the sample of R. L. G. powder employed in the experi-
= ments, which did not differ greatly in composition from it. The proportion of carbon
= was slightly lowerin the R. LL. G, than in the pebble powder ; and this fact is in harmony
= with the proportion by weight which the total gaseons constituents bear to the solid
ie in the products obtained with the two powders, it being somewhat the highest, in
= most instances, in the case of the pebble powder. The proportion of carbonic oxide is
2 often rather higher in the gas obtained from the pebble powder than in that furnished
= by the R. L. G. powder; and this is in accordance with the fact that the proportion of
= carbon is somewhat higher, while that of the saltpetre is a little lower, in the former
= than in the latter. Excluding the results furnished by the experiments in which the
EY powder was exploded in the largest space (in which, therefore, the gases were deve-
i= loped at the lowest pressures) it will be observed that with the slowest-burning
EZ powder (the pebble) the proportion of carbonic oxide decreases steadily, while that of
5 the anhydride increases, in proportion to the pressure developed at the time of explosion.
L The proportion of carbonic anhydride is about the same in the gas from the two
S gunpowders specified ; but that of the potassium carbonate is s0meyhat different, and
5 appears regulated by circumstances other than the composition of the powder, being
= highest in the residues furnished by the R. L. G. powder at the higher pressures, and

lowest in those of the same powder furnished at lower pressures. The amount of