primary bundles were distributed. In his recently published memoir on Potryopteris
forensis (Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 6* s&rie, Bot., tome 1. pl. 8. fig. 1) M. RexavLr
has figured similar secondary bundles, given off, as in my plant, both from the central
vascular axis and from the primary vascular petiolar bundle. The learned author does
not hesitate to regard them as supplying rootlets. These moot points can scarcely be
finally settled until we meet with additional examples of this curious stem.
So distinctly characterized a stem requires an appropriate name. In my last memoir

'Z I endeayoured to avoid a needless multiplication of generic terms by grouping together
= a number of unidentified petioles under the common name of Rachiopteris. But we have
b2 now three examples of these petioles identified with stems, all of which latter exhibit
PI a common type of internal organization, though their petioles display differences in the
5 arrangement of their yascular tissues. But the latter fact constitutes no reason why
E the three plants should not be united in one common genus. In my previous Memoir*
E I pointed out that such differences of structure in the petioles did not prevent Adiantum
Z trapeziforme and A. cuneatum from being placed in one genus, or Pteris umbrosa and
S P. aquiling in another. Neither should it prevent M. RexavLn's Zygopteris Brongniarti,
(5 Anachoropteris Decaisnii, and my new plant from receiving a common generic name.
RK But a new difficulty now springs up. Cora assigned each of his two generic terms,

q Zyqopteris and Anachoropteris, to special forms of petioles. Hence if we select either of
h these names to represent the triad of plants in question it can only be done by giving
an entirely new definition to an old generic name, and one, moreover, in the case or
| | Zyqopteris, that is till required for seyeral petioles, such as Z. Lacattii and Z. bibrac-
tiensis, of which the stems have not yet been found. Hence, though Zygopteris Brong-