
Q This physiological inquiry is not foreign to the subject of this memoir, but forms an
Io essential part of it, since it gives us some clue, helping us to determine what may and
5 what may not have been Coniferous plants, It affects the position in-which special
b=y genera should be located, besides having a very important bearing upon the general
5 question of evolution. Though at present unable to see my way to the acceptance of
=] this doctrine in connexion with the origin of extinct plant forms, T am anxious to place
S on record all the facts which my studies in palzo-botany supply which appear to
5 support that doctrine. HHitherto the difficulty of explaining the transition from the
S ordinary types of fibro-yascular cells and vessels to that of the discigerous types has
2 been one very great hindrance to my accepting the doctrines of the evolutionists in
S reference to fossil plants ; this one difficulty, at all events, has now been removed. But,
= its removal is also an important fact bearing upon another branch of the present inquiry.
bf M. BroxGxtarr, Dr. DawsoN, and Professor NEWBERRY have long held the view that
2 many of the Sigillaric and a large group of allied stems were those of Gymnospermous
1 plants. The two first distinguished palzeo-botanists also believe that many of the forms
E of Calamites, which they recognize under the name of Calamodendron, are also members
E of the 8ame Gymnospermic family. But these observers have arrived at their conclusions
= on somewhat different grounds. M. BRoNGNIART has done $80 from his accurate recog-
SZ nition of their exogenous structure and mode of growth—features which, as I think I have
S demonstrated, are to be found in many indisputably Lepidodendroid plants. Hence, I
S cannot accept M. BRoNGN1aRT's conclusions as a legitimate deduction from the evidence
a upon which the distinguished Frenchman made them rest. Dr. DawsoN has told us, in a

4 succession of memoirs, that he has arrived at very similar conclusions to those adopted