to place ourselves, by an effort of imagination, in the position of chemists who should
have a very varied and extensive knowledge of the chemical properties of the compounds
of carbon, and yet be totally unaware of the existence of that element. Let us imagine,
then, some unknown world, some Laputa (devoted to philosophy) in which the chemistry

* Chemists aro placed in regard to the ideal elements X @, , v, and those combinations of them which
cannot be rezolyed into our actual elemental bodies, in a yery similar position to that occupied by astronomers
(if I may yenture on such a comparison) towards the planet Ni eptune prior to its detection by the telescope.
The existence of the planet Neptune could þe inferred, as a highly probable contingeney, from the perturbations
of the orbit of Uranus; and yet this planet might have remained for eyer unscen by man. $0, too, the existence of
the element x; may be similarly inferred from the peculiar forms of chemical metamorphosis ; and yet this ele-
mont may never be isolated as an independent reality. Tt may exist and exercise (80 to 8ay) an appreciable
influence upon the moyements of our system, and nevertheloss lie far beyond the range of facts accessible to our
methods of experiment. No scientific hypothesis can have any claim whatever upon our notice which is inca-
Pable of experimental verification (a truth too often forgotten in chemical speculations) ; but this verification
may be a yery tardy proces, and involyes numerous trials and numerous failures before in either sense (80 as
to enable us to deny or affirm the hypothesis) it is accomplished,


56 SIR B. C. BRODIE ON THE CALCULUS OF CHEMICAL OPERATIONS.

was of this order. How would the Laputians proceed with the scientific construction
of the symbols of the units of matter? Two units of marsh-gas (they would 8ay) are
identical with three units of hydrogen and a unit of acetylene. Having solved asimilar
problem in the case of ammonia [T. Sec. VII. (8)], they have no difficulty in at once