vibrations. There musb be. two portions of matter exerting forces on each other in order that the ether
should be thrown into agitation. In ordinary line'spectra we consider that the two portions of matter
form part of the same molecule. Now, it seems poxsible that also two portions of different molecules
should in their rapid approach towards each other, or recession from each other, cause forces in the ether
which produce vibration. These latter vibrations we might expect not to take place in fixed periods, but
to produce what we call a continuous spectram. We may suppose that at the lowest temperature at
which, for instance, oxygen is luminous, the vibrations in the ether are chiefly produced by this rapid
relative motion of different molecules, while at higher temperatures the relative motions of different
portions of one molecule might have the upper hand; the continuous spectrum in one case, and the line
spectrum in the other, might thus be explained.

I admit that there is much to be aid in favour of this view, and must leave to further experimentation
to decide whether it is the one most accordant with facts or not. That the discontinuous spectra of
different orders (line and band spectra) are due to different molecular combination, T consider to be
pretty well established, and analogy has led me (and Mr. Lockygr before me) to explain the continuous
spectra by the same canse ; for the change of the continuous spectrum to the line or band spectrum takes
Place in exactly the smne way as the change of spectra of different orders into each other. Analogy is
nob a strong guide, yet s0me weight may be given to it in a case like the one under discussion, where
experiment hitherto has failed to give a decided answer. Professor SToxts has also snggested that the
continuous spectrum which comes out under high pressures may really be only the continuous spectrum
of low temperatures. At 8nch pressures the discharge of an induction coil consists of a bright and
sensibly instantaneous spark, followed by an apparently continuous discharge, for which the spark
appears to open a path ; and it is poxsible that the line spectrum may really belong to the spark, and the
continuous background to the continuous discharge. Professor SToxrgs has s8nggested an experiment
