1. Depth of ganglionic layer, —The pale band corresponding to this layer in Man,
and containing the large cells grouped in nests or clusters, is in the Pig crowded with
very dense groupings of cells in certain regions, whilst at other sites, as above men-
tioned, the laminar or solitary arrangement prevails. The depth of this layer, there-
fore, varies with these two varieties of lamination. In the clustered arrangement the
average depth is 595 mm. ; in the laminar arrangement it may be a simple streak of
cells or attain a depth of from 186 mm. to 372 mm. The greatest depth in the
clustered regions was 697 mm. Further details respecting absolute depth of indi-
vidual layers is given in a tabulated form for convenience of reference. (See p. 62.)

2. Form of cells. —TIt has been stated in a former memoir* that a great irregularity
in marginal conformation is quite peculiar to these cells in Man. Now we can by no
means state that snch is the case with the corresponding elements in the Pig ; in fact,
a striking uniformity in the contour of these cells is observable, by far the greater
proportion taking the form of an elongate pyramid, the few exceptions occurring being
usually gigantic spindles. They resemble closely, both in size and form, the large
pyramidal cells at the deepest portion of the third layer in Bimana, Quadrumana, and
the large Carnivora, as also the ganglion cells in the parietal and tempero-sphenoidal
lobes of Man. Nowhere do we find the irregular, swollen, and at times almost
globose cells 80 frequent in the motor area of the human brain. How is it possible, it
may be asked, to discriminate between these cells and those of the third layer if they
approach them 80 closely in size and contour? In the first place, their arrangement
in nests is indicative of their true significance ; in the next place, their abrupt com-
mencement is indicative of a layer distinct from the third ; and, lastly, of still greater
import to my mind is the fact that in those regions marked by a six-laminated type