spindle-shaped, and bi-polar ; the acquirement of a third process thrown off the centre
of the body of the cell gives the spindle an angularity frequently observed in the last
layer of the cortex. This appears to be the origin of the pyramidal form of cell and
its various modifications and multipolar varieties. Two elementary forms of cell con-
stantly occur in the cortex cerebri, which develop the one into the small pyramidal
and angular, and the other into the large pyramidal and ganglionic series. Tt appears
that when the processes arising from. the larger cells are most numerous, we get the
plump ganglionic cell—when less numerous, the large pyramidal cells of the third
layer ; whilst, if. the complexity in branching of the smaller cell is great, we have an
ovoid, irregular angular cell, or if few branches arise, we obtain the small pyramidal
cell. IT have stated elsewhere* that the absolute number of branches of these cells
could never be determined with any degree of certainty ; yet it is important to bear
in mind the fact that the irregular contour of the large 8wollen ganglionic cell depends
upon multiplicity of cell branchings, and that therefore this contour in the normal cell
may be regarded generally as indicative of greater complexity. We therefore infer
what we may approximately ascertain by examination of vertical and horizontal sec-
tions—that the cell groups of the ganglionic series have far more branches than those
of the third layer. In Man, the Ape, Cat, and Ocelot we found the elements of the
ganglionic series possessed this swollen contour, whilst, in the Sheep and Pig they were
almost univerzally elongated pyramids. The first glance at these cells in the latter
animals suffices to establish their peculiar resemblance to the large pyramids of the
third layer in higher animals. We therefore may with justice assxume that—

1s8t. The large ganglionie cells of the Pig and Sheep are far less complex in their
relationships and connexions than the corresponding cells in the Cat, Ocelot, Ape,