positive luminosity with which, as we have aid, it is 80 closely bound up. One wa
is by bringing the positive laminosity across ome piece of wire or other conductor
the tube; but as this phenomenon is obscure and difficult to observe we shall nc
dwell on it further. The other way is by approaching a conductor to the tube on ons
side or the other of the position which surrounding cireumstances have constrained th
positive luminosity to take up. It is often possible by doing this to drive the green
phosphorescence a little distance off on the further side of the positive luminosity
that on which the conductor is. It would seem as though the phosphorescence we!
more strongly repelled than even the positive luminosity. A straight wire in eo
nexion with earth was placed at an angle to the axis of the tube, and made to
approach it. The green line assumed a serpentine form, cutting the positive lumi>
nosity at its point of inflexion (Plate 29, fig. 28). 'The solution doubtless is connecte
with the fact that the presence of the conductor renders negative discharge easier fro
the part of the tube nearest to it, and that the streams of molecules, in consequence of
their inertia, persist in maintaining a nearly diametral path although the direetic
from which comes the demand for the negative discharge which is inclined ab an ang
to this.*
We will now return to the excepted case in which the positive luminosity is made
to pass in a zigzag direction through the tube (Plate 29, fig. 27). As we have 8aid,
the places where it appears to impinge on the side of the tube are marked by patches
of phosphorescence. These patches are as a rule exceptionally brilliant. Tf an objecb
within the tube be situated 80 that the column of laminosity comes into contact vith
it on thus crossing the tube, it will be found that it casts a shadow in the direction I
which the column strikes it—thab is to say, in the direction of the course of tl
column as we proceed towards the positive terminal. In fact, in guch cages