Wer -ges in low exhausts where there can be no question of molecular streams pro-
-eeding right down the tube. We think that the mistake arises from the effect upon
imagination produced by the view of the well-known negative dark space. This
1 to 8eparate the region of the negative terminal from that of the positive
1 -erminal, and anything thab affects this dark space is thought to do 80 by directly
? g the action of the negative terminal. Bub in reality the region of the negative
| inal is bounded by the negative glow which is the positive end of the physical
-Snib of discharge, of which Crookes' space is the blank-space and the negative
Srminal is the negative end. The negative dark space is only the blank-space of the
cond physical unit of discharge, and the apparent advance of the positive luminosity
ows only that this second physical unit of discharge has been affected in some way
the altered cireumstances of the discharge. And when we consider that its
-Scceptionally long blank-space is due to its peculiarities of situation and the fact that
gaseous negative terminal (7.e., the haze at the back of the negative glow) is 80
Bnlike the gaseous negative terminals of the other stria spaces, it does not appear
- "a that an alteration which produces a great modification in these matters should
"affect the length of this exceptionally extended blank-space.
E We now come to the question of the time required for the emission of the positive
harge. This we have, in effect, dealt with already, when we considered the ques-
= of the dispatch of the positive discharge in positive 8pecial before the arrival at
= tinfoil of the discharge along the tube. It must be of an order of magnitude not
[uperior to that of the time required for the discharge to pass along the tube, and is
FSrobably of a lower order.
'S The time required for the passage of the electricity along the wire outside the tube
+8, as we have seen, 80 short that it cannob be detected by the aid of any of the other