Consistent
transformation for the remainder of this review. with this possibility, some species, like Haemophilus influenzae,
We first discuss the diverse evolutionary costs and require nutritional down-shifts to induce competence and
benefits of natural competence. Next, we outline the numer- purine depletion activates the competence activator sxy [26].
ous strategies bacteria use to increase the likelihood that However, several factors argue against this hypothesis as a
transformed DNA is derived from within the same species. general explanation for the maintenance of transformation:
Finally, we consider experimental and theoretical support (i) as yet, there is no clear evidence that the integration of
for the idea of conservative sex and conclude with sugges- nucleotides taken up by transformation become routed into
tions for further study. In addition to the discussion below, DNA metabolism, (ii) the presence of exogenous DNA does
we also refer interested readers to several excellent reviews not appear to induce competence in any transformable species,
that provide more mechanistic or species-specific details of (iii) competence in streptococci, like S. pneumoniae, is induced

competence induction and transformation [15-17]. for only a short time period during exponential growth when


other resources are highly abundant [15], (iv) transported DNA
is heavily protected against nuclease digestion within the cell,
potentially enabling transported fragments to remain intact as
a substrate for recombination [27], and (v) the hypothesis does
not explain why several species that become competent for
natural transformation only take up DNA from close relatives
due to conserved DNA uptake sequences (DUS) despite the
fact that non-homologous DNA could be used as a source of
nucleotides for direct use or degradation [19,28]. In addition
to these concerns, it remains uncertain, on energetic grounds,
whether the costs of DNA transport are sufficiently offset by
any metabolic savings provided by exogenous DNA [11]. Thus, despite the intuitive appeal of this idea, the evidence in
its favour is currently limited.

(c) DNA repair

An old idea for a potential benefit of transformation is that
acquired DNA is used as a substrate for genome repair
[29,30].