It may be of interest, as
S indicating the purely physiological meaning of many of the processes of cell-division
ty and disposition in Cirripede embryos, to give some of the main lines of development.
<= It will be convenient to refer to the plane passing through the junction of the
‘a. periphery of the first biastoderm cell with the yolk as the basal plane, and to have a
” term for the nucleus with its surrounding protoplasm while still wholly or partly in
© the yolk. Lane employs Riickerr’s term merocyte for such a cell in the case of
meroblastic ova, and it appears to me that this term may be conveniently used in the
6 present case.
= We may, therefore, speak of the emergence of a merocyte at the surface, and term
@ the cells which cover the yolk blastomeres, whether they arise directly from the yolk
3 or by division of the blastomeres formed earlier,
= The species whose embryonic development has been studied by myself or others
‘3 are; Lepas anatifera, L. pectinata, L. Hillii, L. fascicularis, Conchoderma virgata,
a Dichelaspis Darwinii, Scalpellum vulgare, Pollicipes polymerus, Chthamalus stellatus,
© Tetraclita porosa, Balanus perforatus, B, improvisus, and B, balanoides, Other
‘@ Species were investigated by Bovax.ius, but they were not distinguished, and the
= account given by him differs so completely from my own that I have been unable to
= make use of his observations; but it is probable, from his figures and descriptions,
4 that the development is similar to that of other forms, a probability which is reduced
3 almost to a certainty by the fact that one of the species was Balanus balanoides, a
& form investigated also by Hoxx, whose account can be readily brought into relation
5 with my own. A In Lepas anatifera the basal plane may be transverse (figs. 8, 9) or oblique
(figs. 10, 12). After the emergence of the second merocyte (TI.) the first blastoderm cell (I.) may
divide into two cells placed symmetrically on each side of II. (fig. 14) ; or the plane of
division may make any angle with that containing the nucleus of II., and the long
axis of the egg (fig, 13),

A third merocyte (IIL) may then emerge either to the right or left of II. (figs. 15,
16); while II. may sometimes divide in the same plane as I.