The column ‘type’ describes whether a definition takes a purely climatological perspective or El
also includes aspects of the impact of climate. The last column specifies whether a definition requires a climatic event to have a specific biological impact (see
also §2c). 4

=
<
specifies a
source definition type impacts? ey
Ss
IPCC 2012 [4] the occurrence of a value of a weather or climate variable above (or below) climatological no s
a threshold value near the upper (or lower) ends of the range of S
observed values of the variable (typically 5% or 10%) g
NAS 2016 [1] a weather or climate event that is rare at a particular place (and, sometimes, climatological no =
time of year). [.. .] Definitions of rare vary, but an extreme weather 7
event would normally be [. . .] rarer than a particular percentile (e.g. ‘st, S
10th, 90th, 99th) of a probability density function estimated from =
observations expressed as departures from daily or monthly means a
Jentsch et al. 2007 [12] climatic extremes that have a strong abruptness (i.e. biological magnitude impact-related no ws
over biological duration) a
Bailey & van de Pol an episode where climate or climate-driven conditions trigger a negative impact-related no =
2016 [10] threshold-like (nonlinear) biological response X
This study climatic conditions that cause the (biological) response to be in the e.g. 5% impact-related no
of most extreme values of the (biological) response variable
Smith 2011 [13] an episode in which a statistically unusual or rare climatic period alters impact-related yes, ecosystem
ecosystem structure and/or function well outside the bounds of what is structure
considered typical or normal variability
Gutschik & an event during which the acclimatory capacity of an organism is impact-related yes, hysteresis
BassiriRad 2003 [11] substantially exceeded (i.e. a long return time or hysteresis)
Wingfield climate causes the cumulative resources available to an individual to be impact-related yes, allostatic
et al. 2017 [20] exceeded by the sum of its energetic costs. This allostatic overload triggers overload

the emergency life-history stage that temporarily allows the individual to
cease regular activities in an attempt to survive the extreme conditions

occur in ‘extreme’ or ‘non-extreme’ conditions and there is no Notwithstanding the fact that some impacts can be considered
reason to focus only on the tails of climate distributions when more ‘extreme’ than others, each study has its own research
investigating the impacts of climate change. Furthermore, question and associated choice of biological response variable
they suggest that the nonlinearity of the response function that already determines the spatio-temporal scale and level of
can be used as a biological context for deciding what is a organization at which something is considered meaningful.
meaningful threshold value of climatic extremeness [10]: the For example, evolutionary biologists typically consider a dra-
point where climate has a nonlinear impact on the biological matic trait change to be extreme and don’t get particularly
response may be a less arbitrary threshold for climatic extre- excited by other non-genetic changes in ecosystem functioning,
meness than an a priori chosen threshold of, for example, less while an ecosystem ecologist would not be impressed by trait
than 5% (figure 1d). change unless it leads to altered ecosystem functioning. Conse-

quently, including constraints on what type of response (either
in spatio-temporal scale or level of organization; figure 3b)

(c) The type of impact of an extreme climatic event qualifies as extreme enough to be considered an ECE arguably
A second major difference among impact-related ECE defi- does not contribute to the synthetic properties of ECE
nitions is whether they differentiate between the type or efinition [10].

degree of impact.