It is one thing to document in
detail the cellular and biochemical structure of dead ducks
in a marsh in Saskatchewan, as well as, more recently, the
microbiomes they carry, or those of dead chickens in a barn
in British Columbia. It is quite another thing to understand
the relationships among multiple species at multiple scales. One counter-narrative might be that, because of our flawed

assumptions about nature and an unwillingness to examine (1) Characterize the relevant scientific and policy issues
or even acknowledge values, political, economic and gender requiring constructive conflict.

power differentials, the real costs of producing low-cost (2) Create safe forums for articulating and debating issues
chicken are being paid in economic subsidies to fossil fuels where ‘facts are uncertain, values in dispute, stakes
and corn, in lost biodiversity in Brazil and in the oceans, and high and decisions urgent’.

in urgent adaptations to dramatic, unstable climate change. (3) Articulate possible outcomes (and to whom they might
They are mainly being paid by impoverished farmers and be ‘acceptable’), even if they are conflicting.

food industry workers; by millions of non-human species (4) Create venues where trade-offs can be characterized.
whom we abuse (in the system); by wild species whose habitats (5) Negotiate optimal outcomes and clear avenues for
we are invading and destroying; by our grandchildren, whose adaptation and change.

choices are increasingly constrained; by already underfunded (6) Identify appropriate (multi-level) organizational structures
healthcare and public health systems and of course by the for implementing.

victims of consequent diseases. Re-formulating this counter-narrative, one might suggest Science at its best is a way to share experience, to offer
that supply-side, ecologically grounded livestock production and evaluate alternative explanations, to project future possi-
is possible, but because this internalizes wider environmental bilities based on past experiences. If complexity is taken
and health costs, the meat and eggs they produce appear seriously, and not just as a technical modelling issue, then
more expensive to the consumer.