These are, in the spinal cord, the fibres of

ed pyramidal tract ; while in the medulla, they appear to belong to the longi-

e system of the lateral reticular formation.*

sact from Deiters’ Nucleus.— As we have already mentioned (p. 727), in one of

in which the lateral lobe had been removed (Exp. 4), an area of degeneration

Grved at the periphery of the anterior column corresponding in position with

Brior extremity of Mancut’s cerebellar tract. This tract was most distinctly

\dhe upper cervical region, but could be followed inio the lumbar enlargement.
@ spinal cord it occupied the periphery of the anterior column from the

anerve roots to the median fissure along which it extended a short distance.

fig. 4, a.d.t.) At the level of the pyramidal decussation it occupied relatively

p position as obtained in the spinal cord.

his point upwards the area of degeneration could not be traced as a distinct

as the figures show (Plate 64, figs. 1 and 3, rf.), the reticular formation,

ly its dorso-lateral region, was less deeply stained than the opposite side, and

d an atrophied appearance. This condition was traced as far as the upper

e restiform body.

gis case a careful examination of a number of sections taken through this region

that the cells of Drrrers’ nucleus on the side of the lesion were either entirely
br were greatly reduced in number ; and the whole appearance of the tegmentum

$ point indicated some traumatic lesion connected with the removal of the

be. (Plate 66, fig. 3.)

Svould again call attention to the fact that in the case of complete cerebellar

ation no such tract of degeneration was discoverable in the spinal cord, and the

‘Derrers’ nucleus were normal ; and a similar healthy appearance was observ-

in another case of extirpation of the lateral lobe (Exp. 5). (Plate 66, fig. 2.)

svidence, therefore, is in favour of the tract in question being dependent upon

tion of the cells of Derrers’ nucleus. It is, however, our intention to further

ite our researches on this point.

‘ would serve to account

nee of this tract among the fibres of the crossed pyramidal tract
from hemisection of

degree of sclerosis in this region from lesion of the motor cortex than
cord, as has been noted by Suerrtnaron (30); and Brecurerew (36) has. shown that on the
le of the direct cerebellar tract, and in the pyramidal tract, are scattered fibres, often forming a
0, which myelinate at an earlier date than the pyramidal fibres proper. V.-—B. 5c


744 DRS.