Comparisons of different TL measurement methods.

method advantages

Q-PCR easy to conduct; small amount of starting DNA
(research and required; many population-based studies for
commercial) comparisons

TRF (research) common method for research studies; highly

reproducible in some laboratories; many
published studies for comparative research

interphase Q-FISH can be conducted on fixed tissues and cells
(research)
HT Q-FISH (research same as interphase Q-FISH; very reliable and
and commercial) reproducible results; CLIA certified
Flow FISH (research same as interphase Q-FISH; can provide cell- type-
and commercial) specific information on mostly average telomere
lengths; reproducible; CLIA certified
metaphase Q-FISH can potentially detect telomeres on all
(research) chromosomes
STELA (research) can detect the shortest telomeres on specific
chromosomes
Universal STELA Measures mainly the shortest telomeres
(research)
TeSLA (research) measures all the telomeres less than 1 kb and up

to 18 kb on all chromosome ends; works on
Many animal types; automatic quantitation of
telomere sizes using user-friendly software

— What is the evidence for reproducibility, accuracy,
reliability and sensitivity of the methods used?

— What validation studies have been completed to ensure
the accuracy of their testing?

— Are appropriate control standards of short and long
telomeres included to control for batch to batch variations?

— How long will it take to obtain results (e.g. is the method
high throughput or low throughput)?

— What information (reports) will be provided about the
shortest telomeres as well as average or relative TL?

— For clinical specimens, is the laboratory CLIA certified
and what is the cost per sample?

4. Concluding remarks

In the last decade, there have been literally thousands of pub-
lished studies indicating that average or relative TL correlates
with human disease onset or progression (figure 4). Although

‘tions references

large variations among different laboratories, but [28]
reproducibility is better in commercial setting; not
useful in cancer studies due to aneuploidy; only
average TL is provided as a relative ratio

larger amounts of starting DNA required; provides most [5]
information on average TL; need to standardize
restriction enzymes used to compare studies
between laboratories (subtelomeric polymorphisms
can alter data obtained); labour intensive

labour intensive; TLs expressed as relative fluorescence 34]
units (not actually TLs) but using standards
measured by TRF actual TLs can be inferred

does not distinguish telomere clustering in interphase 35]
cells; does not recognize telomere-free ends

requires an expensive FACS instrument; almost 39,40]
universally uses peripheral blood mononuclear cells
(PBMCs)

does not detect the telomeres that are very short that 34]

do not hybridize with probes (appear as telomere-
free ends); requires highly skilled cytogeneticist for
chromosome-specific analyses

works on only a small subset of individual human [51]
chromosomes; low throughput; labour intensive

does not detect larger telomeres and can detect ITSs; [55]
manual quantitation; low throughput; labour
intensive

low throughput; labour intensive [57]

it is well established that progressive telomere shortening
occurs with increased human age, small, cross-sectional
studies on the association with psychosocial and environ-
mental factors should be interpreted with caution until
larger, longitudinal-based studies can be carried out. While
there have been some larger population studies conducted in
humans (generally using PBMCs or buccal washes), most of
these used Q-PCR relative TL measurement approaches. QPCR is easy to conduct, but does not provide information
about the shortest telomeres, so these studies are at best
associations with specific diseases and thus do not prove
cause-and-effect relationships.