From these results alone no conclusions of a definite kind can be drawn as to the
relations subsisting between the cord and the brain on the one hand, and the cord
and the nerves on the other, but if the amount of resting difference may be truly


ON THE MAMMALIAN NERVOUS SYSTEM. 321

taken to be an indication of the amount of potential energy, which the nerve material
is capable of making kinetic in the form of a nerve impulse, then this remarkable
rise, and the conditions which determine it, would appear to show that the physio-
logical characters of the structure upon which the storage of energy depends, are such
as to be rendered more efficacious with use, and that the central structures (cells) of
the cord play the most prominent part in this influence of functional use upon
efficiency. SOHAPTER V—ON THE ELECTRICAL EFFECTS EVOKED IN THE SPINAL CORD AND
e MIXED NERVES BY EXCITATION OF THE CORTEX CEREBRI.
ce)
= The primary object of this work being the determination of the nature of the
ampulses which issue from the excitable or so-called motor cortex, considerable
Gmportance attaches to positive results on this point. As, however, usually happens
{n the employment of a new method, we have found that more actual advance was
made by applying it to the study of the lower centres and fibres through which these
inpulses pass than by attempting to elucidate the functional relations existing
Detween one part of the cortex and the rest of the encephalon.
3 One fundamental fact stands out, however, prominently, viz., that, as we shall see
irectly, it is possible to ascertain and judge the nature and comparative amount of
‘She electrical changes which accompany the descent of the cortical impulses in the
“gpinal cord, and so to learn the character of the cortical discharge. Practically, there-
ore, the results of our special investigation of the excited cortex will best be
‘arranged according to the part of the nervous system in which the electrical changes
were observed. A further subdivision of such a classification will be necessary in
Srder to bring out the wider points of interest which have received elucidation by the
aise of this method, and this is furnished by the summary and arrangement we have
iven on pp. 272-276, of the facts discovered by other methods, of which the most
ae are those of simple inspection and of graphic record respectively.
& In accordance with this plan, therefore, we will commence with considering the
case in which we observed the electrical changes in the dorsal cord, with the object
of ascertaining the character of the descending nervous impulses in consequence of
stimulation of the cortex.