HORSLEY

muscular movement of any kind existed, yet a marked and distinct electrical change
of the usual kind was present in the cord and evidenced both in the electrometer and
the galvanometer. When, further, owing to prolonged excitation, exposure, or slighter degree of
etherisation, hyperexcitability of the cortex became established, subsequent excitation
evoked a more general discharge, and although the muscles of the trunk and upper
limb were now thrown into active contraction, the change evidenced by the electro-
meter and galvanometer remained sitiilar in character to that previously observed.

(3.) If in any given instance with the central end of the spinal cord in the lower
dorsal region exposed and connected with the galvanometer electrodes, the cortical
area for the upper limb was excited, no effect. was observed in the galvanometer and
electrometer, although the muscles of the upper limb were thrown into convulsion.

(4.) The injury (cutting off, &c.) of the cord between the exposed region and its
deep connections abolishes the effect in the cord, even although the muscles are
thrown by cortical excitation into violent spasm.

(5.) In addition to the above, the whole mass of results to be detailed in this and
the succeeding chapters is convincing evidence of the truth of our interpretation,
since, as will be seen by separating the fibres in the two sides of the cord (longitudinal
section), by interrupting the fibres on one side only (hemisection), &c., we obtained a
differentiation in our results which admits of no other explanation than the one
upon which we base our deductions, namely, that the electrical effects observed are
due to changes localised in the exposed cord, and, moreover, in the experiments
under discussion localised particularly in the nerve fibres which form the pyramidal
tracts. The fact above alluded to of the absence of electrical effects in the dorsal cord when
the area for the upper limb was excited in the Monkey, involves matters of such
importance that we now pass on to consider it in some detail.

(c.) Lhe Localisation of Efferent Representation in the Cortex as ascertained by the
Electrical Method. It was clear from the commencement of this research, that our method afforded
means of differentiating the centres in the cortex and their correlated fibres in the
spinal cord. We accordingly made observations of the following character :—

Having exposed the cortex freely,.and connected, as before, the cut dorsal cord with
the electrometer, we proceeded to obtain the usual result by exciting the lower
limb area with a minimal but adequate stimulus, evoking thus an effect without at
the same time developing an epileptic hyperexcitability of the cortex.