This suggested that no continuous
strand of fibres united the excited portion of these latter tracts with the observed
portion. We shall refer to this result again later on ; since, however, the stimulation
of the lateral and posterior columns alone gave notable effects, we limited our excita-
tion in the majority of instances to these columns,

The majority of these experiments were carried out on Cats (17 animals), but we also
made a considerable number of experiments on three large Macaque Monkeys. It will
be presently seen that the results differ in the two animals in a most interesting way-


ON THE MAMMALIAN NERVOUS SYSTEM. 377

The experiments all fall into two great groups, distinguished by the fact that in
one the lumbar end of the isolated fragment of cord was the seat of galvanometric
observation, whilst, in the other, the dorsal end was observed and the lumbar end
excited. In the first case the electrical changes are obviously due to the discharge of
nerve impulses down the cord, in the second to their discharge wp the cord.

- We will now proceed to a detailed description, first of a typical experiment, and
then of the results obtained from several experiments under these two opposite con-
ditions, and we will take first the case of impulses descending the cord, these impulses
having been produced by see sea of some one column, as displayed in the dorsal
section of the “experimental region” of cord. The galvanometric connections having
een made with the lower lumbar end of this tract, electrical changes were evidenced
iB it when the descending impulses reached that part which was in connection with
thee electrodes leading to the instrument.

a

s

SEction 6.—ExectricAL ErFrcts EVOKED IN THE LumMBAR Corp sy Excitation
ob OF THE CoLUMNS IN THE DorsaL Recon.

‘4 (a.) Typical Experiments.

pene the results in the case of Cat’s cord, as mentioned in the preceding paragraph,
ny different from those obtained with the Monkey’s cord, it is desirable to separate
ry the experiments made upon each.