I will show that low numeracy upset and miserable, and she don’t like being teased’.

is important not only for the life chances of individuals but — High attainer about low attainer: ‘She goes hide in the

also for society as a whole. corner—nobody knows where she is and she’s crying
there’.

(a) Implications for individual learners These learners are a problem also for the teachers. In this

The implications for individual life chances of a large British case, teachers were interviewed individually by Bevan.

1970 cohort are summarized as in the report Does Numeracy

Matter More?: — Teacher KD: ‘If they forget really basic things from the

beginning, then there’s no way you can use those further

An earlier study, ‘Does Numeracy Matter?’...showed that . .
down the line ... because they can’t even do the basics’.

people with poor numeracy tended to leave full-time education
at the earliest opportunity and usually without qualifications, fol-

lowed by patchy employment with periods of casual work and Teachers are generally aware that children who were strug-
unemployment. Most of their jobs were low skilled and poorly gling often try to hide the fact:
paid and offered few chances of training or promotion. .. .Over-
an poor numeracy rather be vane was associated with — Teacher JL: ’. . lots of times they’re trying to cover it up...
8: 1° PP sometimes they'll cover it up—they’d rather be told off for
Participants with low numeracy irrespective of their literacy being naughty than being told off that they’re thick’.
also had less chance of being in a company pension scheme;
were more at risk of depression; and were more likely to have As noted in §1, there are many reasons for very low
been suspended from school, or arrested and cautioned by numeracy, but the results reported in the previous sections
the police. So yes, low numeracy does matter for individuals. imply that a proportion of the low numerates suffer a core def-
Low numeracy in school can be very distressing and can icit in a mechanism for identifying and representing
cause problems in the classroom. We asked 9-year-olds about numerosities, and that this mechanism is a key tool in the

their experiences with the daily numeracy hour.