All rights reserved.


consistent individual differences as highlighted in models

r—

—_———.. of social perception za
culture-affected (personality) ~~} S
regional cultural attitudes Ss
socio-economic identity } =
generations-related identity j social perception 8.
national identity (society’s priorities) in the shadow s
social rules-related attitudes = Conscientiousness =
system of values in the shadow
attitudes affected by profession + eee ‘ in the shadow =
family and personal history = Social obedience in the sha $s
religious beliefs biologically-based owledge processin; in th Se

enderidentity sex. 7 emotional stability in the shadow
age-group related attitudes age abilities for social in the shadow =
radial identity race . cxchaneg in the s -
employment history mental illness eacefulness in the shadow 3
_ intelligence ~ Openness to experience =
educational experience memory . in the shadow =
\ temperament (neurochémically-based <
attitude’ to uncertainty neuroticism behaviouraldynamics) Neuroticism —
language\skills endurance for socialization Extraversion S
social behaviour skills » tempo of speech > in the shadow w
Peer-social ARR aEIEEES empathy (orientation to other people's feelings) Agreeableness Ss
self-image / orientation to own programs of actions. in the shadow a
impulsivity N less significant a
positive emotionality dispositions less significant
physical endurance ? in the shadow
tempo of physical actions in the shadow
sensation seeking ss significant
plasticity in changing situations versus compulsivity in the shadow
effortful control (mental endurance) in the shadow
abilities: modality-specific abilities (vision, hearing, etc.) in the shadow
artistic abilities 4 in the shadow
spatial abilities f in the shadow

mathematical abilities dj in the shadow
\ musical abilities F in the shadow
\ athletic abilities in the shadow

Figure 1. Differential psychology studies a number of consistent individual differences based on socio-cultural (yellow area) and biological factors (green area). The
fact that biological characteristics interact with socio-cultural ones and emerge as components of personality does not devalue the need for biological sciences to
study them independently of cultural factors (as, for example, in the case of age and sex). Social perception of individuals (i.e. how people see other people,
depicted here as a magnifying glass), as represented by the Five Factor Model (FFM), highlights only some components of personality (spotlights) and downplays
many others (labelled here ‘in the shadow’) as listed in the right column of the figure. The resulting list of personality traits is therefore biased toward individual
differences prioritized by societies.