This view on functionality of NA, DA =
components) for constructing actions should be used as the and ACh is widely accepted; however the 5-HT system is =
main principle of our taxonomies. rarely praised for its evolutionarily-old role in regulation of ‘

many body and brain functions (with exception of [28]).

(o) Functional Ensemble of Temperament: a Meanwhile, 5-HT deficiency is often associated with a wide 2
range of dysfunctional behaviour—lack of impulse control = =

neurochemically based, activity-specific model [9-11,16,19], aggression, depression, anxiety, social avoid- =

Using the functionality approach, a common-sense Grand ance and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)—so this -

Plan would be: (a) to identify universal regulatory aspects non-specificity might just be a reflection of low energetic 2

in the construction of human actions for which (b) links capacities of an individual to construct behaviour adequate S

to specific neurophysiological systems have been well- to a situation. The higher density of 5-HT1A receptors in w

established, (c) to compare them with observations from the thalamus in people with higher neuroticism [66] might —

temperament research and classifications in differential psy- be explained by dysregulation in the NA system (since acti- 5

chology, and (d) to look at the variability of the resulting vation of 5-HT1A receptors (unlike other types of 5HT ©

traits in healthy and mentally ill people. receptors) in subcortical systems was found to increase NA
The call for a ‘functional’ instead of a ‘structural’ approach [5,6]). This position on the role of 5-HT might be controver-

is not new and came, in fact, soon after scientific psychology sial, and the subject of future discussions. The links

was born. In 1905, Robert Yerkes specifically distinguished between the DA system and sensation/novelty seeking (see

between structural and functional ‘criteria of psychic’ that the Farde et al. contribution to this volume [67]) might be

nowadays we call dimensions [59, p. 144].