By the = S
useful for practical considerations. end of the twentieth century, a number of Approach/With- © 3

The requirement of independence of scales is very con- drawal (A/W) models appeared in temperament research,
venient for mathematical purposes and is important in which unified Positive Affect with the Approach/Extraver-
psychometric practice except for the fact that it does not sion (energetic) trait, and Negative Affect with the
really exist in natural systems. For example, the independence Withdrawal/Neuroticism (emotionality) trait (for example,
of the dimensions in the PNA model appears to be due, not to [60,99-102,120]). In these models, the ‘Positive Affect/
independence of the underlying regulatory systems, but rather Approach’ dimension included such different characteristics
to the fact that these interconnected systems act differently in as consistent optimism, approach behaviour, investigative
response to positive or negative events (as discussed below). activities (novelty seeking), physical endurance and endur-

The priorities of psychometrists and differential psychologists, ance in social—verbal activities; the dimension of ‘Negative
therefore, differ greatly, and psychometrists or statisticians are Affect/Withdrawal’ included characteristics of social with-
the last people to be consulted when developing taxonomies of drawal, insecurity, avoidance of uncertainty, low sociability
biologically-based traits. Unfortunately the opposing priorities and preferences for individual assignments.

of psychometricists and differential psychologists are often The unification of the PNA with the two main dimensions
overlooked: there is a commonly held view in differential psy- of the FFM meant that there was no stand-alone dimension
chology that FA results of psychometric studies (ie. how the describing energetic capacities. This ran counter to solid neuro-
items or scales in psychological tests are grouped) provide physiological evidence of the existence of several systems
valid evidence of associations between real neurophysiological regulating behavioural arousal, anatomic and neurochemical.
processes.