This similarity suggested to us the possibility that the fibres in the anterior
cots are but slightly concerned in the production of the electrical effect in the mixed
erve when the cord is excited by such strengths of stimulus as have been used in the
pregoing experiments (500-2000, very rarely 4000). Tt will be found on referring to Chapter VI., that whereas the electrical effect
Jerved in the cord to follow excitation of the cortex is very considerable, it is very
full in the sciatic nerve, and we there suggest that this difference involves a change

he amount, intensity, or quality of the nerve impulses in their passage through the

known endings of the pyramidal tracts, and the known origins of the efferent
Bves, the anterior cornual corpuscles. (See fig. 22, p. 495, Chapter XT.)
Bo what extent, and under what circumstances, electrical effects can be detected in
he sciatic nerve, when all the posterior roots are divided and the nerve is connected
ah the cord by efferent fibres only in the anterior roots, becomes therefore a most
nfBresting question.

‘Fo the consideration of experiments upon this point we will now turn.

ia)
=)

4 Section 5.--THe Execrrica Errects in Errerent NERVES FOLLOWING
8 EXcITATION OF THE SpinaL Corp.

an
a

Fhe least complicated mode of experimentation for determining these effects would
azthat of directly observing the changes in the central end of a divided anterior
opt. This experiment, however, we have not yet successfully accomplished ; the
lificulties in the way of obtaining satisfactory connections with a divided anterior
out are augmented by its anatomical relations, and by the fact that, in order, as we
hall see, to obtain any changes in the root an intensity of stimulus has to be applied

he cord which evokes general movements, thus dragging on the short root. The

gers of inadequate isolation have been already dwelt upon in Chapter IV. Our
frempts in this direction were so unsuccessful that we determined to employ the
nore laborious method of division of all the posterior roots, and examination of the
slectrical changes in the sciatic nerve.