Museum speci-
underscoring the utility of museum specimens as inventories mens of birds and other vertebrates will undoubtedly have
of environmental contaminants. a prominent role in further documenting mercury and other

contaminants across the planet’s ecosystems, a critical first
step in mitigating our impact on the environment.

(b) Museum specimens track organic mercury

contamination . ae
Mercury is a significant environmental pollutant and an 4, Museum specimens record historical changes

anthropogenic increase of mercury in the environment is a in diet, migration routes, environmental stress
well-established trend that results directly from human

discharge of mercury into the Earth’s ecosystems [5,6]. and morphology

Although IHg (inorganic mercury) is the predominant form In addition to providing detailed records of environmental pol-
of mercury pollution in the environment, it is converted into lutants, museum specimens can be used as sensitive indicators
organic or methyl mercury (MeHg) by sulfate-reducing of changes in organisms’ diet, changing migratory routes and
bacteria [82]. MeHg is an environmental toxin that bioaccumu- stress as a result of changing environments [72]. These insights
lates through food webs and builds up in animal tissues, stem from the fact that stable isotopes [89,90] and hormones
including bird feathers [83,84]. Few studies have investigated [91,92] remain relatively inert in museum specimens and can
whether anthropogenic increases in IHg have resulted in be detected reliably over periods of decades or centuries.

increased bioaccumulation of MeHg, much less the potential Stable isotopes have been used to trace evolving diets of fish


[93], mammals [94-96] and birds [89,97—99], with ratios of iso- knew that their efforts would establish a baseline for future

topic nitrogen and carbon, in particular, providing insight into studies, although it would be nearly a century before the
shifts in dietary regime over the past several decades. Isotopes power of their work would be fully realized.