The discovery of the fine molecular occurred about 2000 years (taking 25 years per generation)
mechanisms involved in the development and transmission ago and that might have affected the ancestors of currently
of this disorder constitutes a striking example of how evolution- living persons might still be affecting those person’s pheno-
ary medicine of early in life effects can bring valuable insights type today. However, more research is needed before
opening major potential avenues to define new therapeutic extrapolating these results to long-lived species as the physical
approaches to this major public health issue. timescale of an epigenetic mark might also play a role. Obviously, despite the fact that this inheritance of variation
would rest entirely on variation in non-genetic information,
even the most demanding populational estimation of heritabil-

inheritance ity would incorporate such variation into the estimate of
Discoveries such as the example above (see also examples in heritability that is invariably claimed to be of genetic (ie.
boxes 2-5) challenge the view of inheritance widely accepted DNA sequence) nature.

(b) The contrasting timescales of non-genetic


Similarly, in the example of animal cultural transmission
(box 5), theoretical considerations [80] and experiments [66]
led to conclude that local traditions might persist over hun-
dreds if not thousands of generations. This would provide = 0. epigenetic inheritance
plenty of time for natural selection to fix those inclusively 2
heritable variants and thus provide enough time for some ; cultural inheritance
form of genetic assimilation to occur [19,77,81]. .

genetic inheritance

ecological inheritance

(c) The reversibility/fidelity trade-off

A common point of the above examples is that the inherited
adaptation remains reversible. Although commonly viewed
as a weakness of non-genetic inheritance, from an adaptive
viewpoint this reversibility can on the contrary be seen as a

parental effects

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
fidelity of information transmission

. . . oy (log, of number of generations unchanged) “>
strength, allowing parents to mould their offspring’s pheno- =
type to current conditions, while still allowing them to Figure 1.