As this
connection is of the utmost importance, we may be permitted to discuss the point at
a little further length. The evidence by the degeneration method shows that the principal mass of the
pyramidal tract fibres do not run towards the corpuscular elements in the anterior or
ventral horn, but towards the posterior or dorsal portion of the nerve centres, thus
suggesting that the fibres join rather the field of conjunction than the efferent side.
gain, the degeneration method shows clearly that no pyramidal fibres pass directly
ut into the anterior root. Anatomically therefore there is evidence of some structural change in the path
véhere the pyramidal fibre comes into relation with the spinal centres.

“The distribution of the pyramidal fibres in the spinal cord is still so much a matter
ed judice, especially after recent work by the histological* methods, that the complete
déstination of the fibres, when yet at the upper part of the cord, is unknown.

=The existence of efferent fibres (internuncial) connecting each nerve centre with the
ngkt and others below it have, like the afferent internuncial system, been surmised to
ist from physiological evidence, all anatomical facts being wanting.

‘3We believe that our previous experiments (see bilaterality, &c.) go to show that

h efferent internuncial fibres must be few in number and but feebly differentiated.
‘2The efferent channels from the spinal nerve centres are the fibres composing the
daiterior roots. LCommissural Channels of Communication.—Of commissural connection between
spinal nerve centres of opposite sides of the cord no certain anatomical proof exists,
lt the presence of such connection is surmised from the physiological evidence, and
ig morphologically suggested by many researches, especially those of sme

Ghanke and GoLct.
3g

8 2. Physiology.

8 While the spinal nerve centres have been investigated in numerous ways since

unptt estimated the delay in the passage of an impulse through them, it is
temarkable how little is known with certainty of their functional activity.