Any electrical changes in the contacts of the electrodes with the cortex might,
therefore, be as much caused by the impulses travelling in the subjacent fibres as by
Ghanges i in the cells or other surface termini. S The above criticism obviously does not affect the evidence which the presence of

finite electrical changes offers as to localisation, but seems to us to discount any
vantage which the method might offer for the investigation of the functions of a
pérve centre by the study of the actual changes in its cells.

> SUMMARY. It is obviously impossible to formulate with sufficient accuracy many general
danclusions as to the mode in which the functional activity of the spinal nerve centres
i generated and discharged, but we cannot refrain from pointing out that the
geetrical method supplies many ways of investigating this very important and
Gficult subject, and further that it throws most unexpected light on the obscure
fuestions relating to the working of the several parts of nerve centres.

&Most prominently stand out two principal facts :—

PU) The kinetogenetic portion* of a spinal nerve centre is probably the afferent
= side. (See Section 2.)

E(2.) The part in which the delay and diminution of impulses passing through is

ESI effected is the efferent side of such a centre with the field of conjunction.
3 (See Section 2.)

= The consideration of these facts, unexpected as they were, shows clearly that the
iiterprotation by Bastrant of sensori-motor nerve phenomena is probably the most
Srrect yet advanced. The basis of that interpretation, namely, the doctrine of
Kinesthesis as formulated by: him, is in complete harmony with our experimental
results. Bastian has for many years contended that the ordinary division of nerve centres
or parts of the same into sensory and motor respectively is misleading, and that not
only has the statement that the source of a nerve centre’s discharge is the motor part

* By the term “kinetogenetic portion” we have styled that part of a centre in which the potential
energy is converted into kinetic.
+ “The Brain as an Organ of Mind.” “ Paralysis, Cerebral, Bulbar, and Spinal.”


510 MESSRS.