Clear conceptions on these points are
ential, if there is to be real progress in comparative morphology ; though
f either generation may shed side-lights upon the problems relating to the
© alternating generations. must be treated apart, so long as the main
f Hormetsrer continue to be accepted.
y ption above made as to the origin of antithetic alternation is based upon
mparison of living plants, which leads to the conclusion that, of the two
Senerations, the sexual generation (the oophyte or gametophyte) was the -
that subsequently a neutral (the sporophyte) was produced as a stage
*rpolated between the successive sexual generations; and that this new
roduced, not by mere modification of the oophyte, or of a part of it, but by

f the product of sexuality—the zygote ; by its sub-division into numerous
a 3P 21.9,94



474 PROFESSOR F. 0. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY

cells the effect of a single sexual process is distributed over the parts p;
these parts, when isolated, may be styled the spores, or, to distinguish th
other unicellular organs of propagation, they are designated by the spec
“ carpospores.” Further comparison of living forms leads to the conclusion th
followed upon the increasing size of the sporophyte a progressive sterilizatio
tissues, so that only a part of those tissues continued to be sporogenous; this:
most readily illustrated by reference to the Bryophyta (see below, p. 485, &e.),a
plants in which progressive sterilization of the tissues of the sporophyte app
have been closely connected with its increasing size and structural complexi
series is, however, characterized by the simple external form of the sporoph
by the further fact that the sporogenous tissue of each individual sporop
normally a continuous mass ; accordingly, the recognition of the progressive st
tion is in them comparatively easy. Progressive sterilization seems also to have played an important part in the
tion of the Vascular Cryptogams; in these, as we see them at the prese
the proportion of sporogenous tissue to vegetative tissue is comparatively sm
sporogenous cells are commonly separated into small masses, or are distributed
in fact, the sterilization appears to have progressed much further in the Vi
Cryptogams than in the Bryophyta; the external form, also, is much more ¢
owing to the presence of appendicular organs. But though it may be more
to trace the steps of sterilization in the living Vascular Cryptogams, o
process having been more completely carried out, the experience gained from st
the Algee and Bryophyta should direct the line of observation into this chann
occasion to note its effects will frequently arise in subsequent pages. The adoption of the foliar habit as seen in the sporophyte of Vascular Cryp'
together with the elaboration of a subterranean system for absorption, brough'
it very great advantages; the physiological independence of the sporophyt
thereby secured, and it accordingly assumed a more permanent character and
life.