Classic data in deer antler regen- processes that performed information processing and
eration (figure 1f) and recent work showing permanent decision-making with respect to body structure and function.
reprogramming of planarian target morphology without Many systems, including bacterial films, slime moulds, plant © =
genomic editing (figure 1g) reveal the ability to alter the ana- roots and ant colonies, have been shown to exhibit brain-like = >
tomical setpoint in vivo. It is crucial to understand how living behaviour [10,23,24]; indeed, the same molecular hardware Ss
systems encode and regulate toward specific patterning out- underlying higher cognition (ion channels, neurotransmitters =:
comes, and where on Wiener’s cognitive scale (figure 1h) and synaptic machinery) was already present in our unicellu- 5!
the decision-making processes of patterning systems lar ancestor. While this is not yet a mainstream perspective, >
lie [6,10]. evolutionary contiguity and recent genomic analyses are con- =
While significant progress has been made with respect to sistent with the long-known fact that brains and aneural  &
molecular pathways required for pattern control (e.g. [11]), systems share not only molecular components but also com- iat
the focus to date has been largely on understanding and putational functions, allowing many aneural and pre-neural =
manipulating the cellular hardware. The algorithms and systems to implement learning and adaptive behaviour.
‘software’ that enable cells and molecular networks to make Despite the unquestioned suitability of hierarchical neural 3
real-time decisions with respect to much larger systems- architectures for advanced types of representation, the phys- &
level properties (size of tail, position of eyes, etc.), and to iological, behavioural and metabolic robustness of single cells
adjust when the starting state or the setpoint is altered in reflects computational needs that are different in degree, not
real time, are still poorly understood. Likewise, a significant kind, from the obvious cognitive capacities of brains.