When evolution came to be recognized, and the embryology of animals
as found to justify for them the acceptance of the recapitulation theory, GorTHE’s views
ere read in a new light, and the successive phases of the individual life of the plant
so naturally appeared to illustrate, in a measure, the history of its descent; accordingly,
* ‘Bot, Zeit.,’ 1881, p. 701.

-Mecexcrv,—p, 3Q

“



482 PROFESSOR F. 0. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY

speaking at present only of the sporophyte of the higher plants, the cotyledons
be viewed as the earliest type of leaf, the foliage leaves the next, and finally, th
leaves and sporophylls. Any case of mere vegetative development of a g
would be described, almost in the words of GorrHE, as a sample of ret;
metamorphosis, or in the language of descent, as a reversion,

A different position was taken up by the adherents of what has been term
“ differentiation theory” ;* for them the various forms of leaf are the re
differentiation of an original type: it was found that in their earliest develop
stages all leaves are virtually alike ; here, it was maintained, might be recogni E
fundamental form which underlies all the various lateral organs, while the dey
ment of these organs themselves was accepted as in fact a real metamorpho
differentiation to subserve various functions. The actual metamorphosis of
specialized organ into another was however denied; thus to the adherents ¢
theory stamens are by no means metamorphosed foliage leaves. GorBEL, ho)
rightly points out “that such a metamorphosis of one form of leaf to another
occur,” and cites his own experiments, by which leaves, normally developing
seale-leaves, were transformed in the course of their individual growth into fo
leaves.t He further cites those interesting cases of the appearance of sporang'
leaves of Botrychium, which are normally green expanded foliage leaves, m
that, where the sporangia occur, the vegetative development is reduced ;
observations on Osmunda and Blechnum are also quoted, and from these the cot
sion was drawn that “the sporophylls are metamorphosed foliage leaves”; a
more explicitly it is stated for plants at large (Joe. cit., p. 118), “ that the plant fe
in the first instance leaves of only one type, the foliage leaves, though their
is often modified by influences which appear in the course of development.”
facts do not necessarily bear out the interpretation thus put upon them: what:
shown by such cases as that of Botrychium, or Blechnum, or Osmunda, is simply
a correlation exists between spore-production and vegetative development :
sporangia are present the vegetative growth is arrested, where sporangia are ab
vegetative growth is more active: the further step that the sporophyll is a met
morphosed foliage leaf, and that the plant in the first instance forms only fo!
leaves is an assumption, made in accordance with the custom of reading conclu
of phylogeny into the history of the individual, but without sufficient rega
wide-extended comparison.