Taking these Next, Frankenhuis et al. [16] review the statistical struc-
evolutionary viewpoints to the study of early-life effects tures of environments which are most conducive to the
is important, as it allows one to consider how certain evolution of early-life effects (focusing particularly on
adverse health outcomes that are nonetheless associated PARs) by building on previous analyses in the context of
with high reproductive success can become prevalent in adaptive parental effects [35]. They review the recent flurry
some populations. of evolutionary models on PARs, which highlight that
In studying the evolutionary origins of early-life effects, environmental cues received in early life need to be suffi-
evolutionary medicine is necessarily integrative, as it (i) is ciently autocorrelated to later-life environments for such
based on a rigorous mathematical theory of evolution that cues to be reliable. Moreover, less reliable cues may need to
describes how natural selection acts on phenotypic variation. be sampled for longer, either selectively favouring longer
It does so by (ii) considering how different physiological, be- sensitive periods for those cues that are more variable (e.g.
havioural and genetic mechanisms drive phenotypic [36]) or favouring no developmental plasticity at all [37].
variation on which natural selection acts, (iii) allowing us to They then highlight that most abiotic environments (e.g.
generate predictions about how differences in susceptibility temperature, rainfall) are, in fact, highly unpredictable (i.e.
arise between individuals and populations, and finally aims characterized by weak autocorrelations), raising the question
to (iv) derive general mechanistic insights by testing these of whether PARs involve abiotic cues. Rather, Frankenhuis
predictions across a broad range of species. et al. suggest that more future work should focus on social
The general feeling at the end of the Cornwall meeting environments—in which the environment is shaped by the

was a combination of enthusiasm and optimism, but individual itself and other members of its social group—as


these are suggested to have much higher autocorrelations. environmental exposures. While the majority of these

Overall, the review by Frankenhuis et al. suggests that modifications are reset either during the development of the
future studies should aim to measure many more aspects primordial germ cells or during early embryonal development
of environmental variation throughout an individual’s life [41], some modifications can survive this reprogramming
and beyond. stage, potentially paving the way for long-term inheritance
The call by Frankenhuis et al. to consider the social (e.g. [42]), although few findings exist, so far, of this
environment also dovetails with a theoretical model by Kuij- phenomenon in humans.