He illustrates by his fig. 9 how, at a later ste a
sporangium consists of a wall of a single layer of cells, and three rows of cells en
by it. The archesporium is stated by him to be derived from the central
strongly-growing row, while lateral rows are curved to one side, and take no ¢
part in the formation of spores ; it is to be noted that GoxBEL gives no acec
how these three rows of cells originate, and in accurately radial sections I have
seen such an arrangement. The structure of the sporangium, which I found
typical though not constant at this later stage, is that shown in fig. 37; the e
of fig. 36 has undergone anticlinal divisions, so that the wall, of which it forms a)
consists of a single line of cells ; cell (ii), which is the archesporium, divides
tudinally and transversely, so as to form a group of sporogenous cells, which abu
three sides directly upon the wall of the sporangium, while the base is in contact q
the tissue derived from cell (iii); this has undergone longitudinal division into
and these cells divide repeatedly in a transverse direction, so that two primitive 1
of cells, not three, occupy the interior of the stalk, But this almost dia
regularity may be often absent, and some sporangia present appearances such as #
in figs. 38 and 39 ; the explanation of such irregularities as these is to be found it
fact that the archesporium consists not of one cell, but of a row of cells, and that
walls separating these do not always run in radial planes, but sometimes obliqi
so that even a perfectly radial section, cut very thin, may include paris derived |
distinct archesporial cells; this has probably been the case for the parts a and
the figs. 38 and 39, In the latter the periclinal division of the cells of the w
begun ; this takes place as Gorse has described it, the superficial cells div
periclinally ; the inner of the resulting layers again divides, the innermost layer }
the tapetum ; there is often some irregularity in the details, and it is to be spe¢


OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 513

a
that the second divisions are delayed at the apex, where the line of dehiscence of
rangium will be (d, fig. 40). The head of the sporangium meanwhile enlarges,
yorogenous mass of cells having grown, and having undergone repeated divisions
sore-mother-cells round themselves off, separate from one another, and are freely
nded in a fluid mass; they then divide into tetrads in the manner already
cnown. The structure of the radial section of the sporangium at the time when
e essential parts are laid down, is thus shown in fig. 41; the wall consists
lly of three layers, of which the outermost is the permanent wall ; irregularities
however, by which the number of layers is in part increased to four, or even
layers ; the stalk, originally consisting of three rows of cells, remains permanently
Was compared with other species, and shows 5—7 rows of cells.
& the sporangium, when mature, is a reviform body, tangential sections, which
yahe plane of curvature, will give more certain results than transverse sections
(Qrmining the origin, number, and form of the archesporial cells.