He says of most orders [37,38], although we have to note that Aristotle S
insects of this kind: is highly unlikely to have encountered any example and 2
...we are bound to reckon caterpillars ... as a form of larva. True, known it for what it was. Even in the case of honeybees, on
some of these, and many belonging to other insects, would which he writes at length (see below), Aristotle fails to dis-
appear to resemble eggs on account of their circular shape; but tinguish the sexual generation of workers from the
our decision must not be determined by their shape nor yet parthenogenetic production of drones [4] [GA 759a8-761a37].

their softness or hardness... but by the fact that the whole of . . . . .
the object undergoes change—the animal is formed out of the But even if Aristotle is not really convinced by the idea of

whole of it and not some part of it. [4] [GA 758b9-15] spontaneous generation from material that did not originate
in flies, and he is indeed saying that flies arise from eggs

What happens is that Insects first produce a larva, then the larva deri d fr f le flies bi on t fertilizati th 86

develops till it becomes egg-like (what is called the chrysalis is erived trom female tes but without fertilization, then we

really equivalent to an egg”); then out of this an animal is have to ask where do those eggs come from?
formed, and it is not until this third stage in its series of changes
that it reaches the end and perfection of its generation. [4] [GA

733b11-17]
10. Aristotle: fertilization and metamorphosis
9. Aristotle: spontaneous generation and The above discussion is relevant to Aristotle’s treatment of
. insect metamorphosis, because of the philosopher's erro-

metamorphosis neous assertion that the eggs of holometabolous insects
As we have seen from the above, Aristotle thus not merely remain unfertilized; in this view, it is lack of Pneuma that
fails to dismiss the idea of spontaneous generation of living leaves the eggs of holometabolous insects ‘imperfect’ (i.e.
from non-living matter, specifically commenting without lacking the capacity to go on to form the ‘perfect’ or ‘com-
any apparent reservation that flies are generated de novo plete’ animal).