He He constructs a scheme that allows the leaders to generate
rejects these possibilities and says that bees must copulate their own kind by means of sex, and to produce other kinds
(even though he says that ‘none of them has ever been seen of bees as offspring without mating but concedes that he has
in the act of copulation’ [4] [GA 759a20-25]); he concludes no evidence for this.

that they must mate to produce their own offspring, but
then recognizes that this causes its own problem, which is
that one of the following three options must be true:

We see then that the manner in which bees are generated
appears to be peculiar, in keeping with their extraordinary
and peculiar character... The reason is that the ‘bees themselves’

(i) each kind generates its own kind, or (ii) one of the three kinds [workers] are not generated in the same way as flies and other
generates the others, or (iii) one kind unites with another kind. such creatures, but from a kind which though different is akin
[4] IGA 759a16-18] to them—they are, of course, generated from the ‘leaders’. [4]

GA 760a5-13
Aristotle now seems to despair, concluding that ‘all of these l 25-13]

theories are impossible’ [4] [GA 759a25]. The first option is But then he is faced by yet another difficulty: if bees do gen-
tuled out by the fact that each caste is clearly a single sex. erate offspring through copulation, then according to the
Among the arguments advanced to show that the other philosopher’s own theory of generation, they should generate
two theories are unreasonable, he points out that if bees are their own kind (i.e. caste), not a different kind of offspring.
not generated by their own kind, then surely there would Here he is handicapped by failing to realize that the ‘leaders’
be no reason for bees altruistically to nurture offspring that are actually female queens. Since in Aristotle’s scheme of gen-
are not their own: eration the form of the offspring is determined by male
All creatures which concern themselves about young ones take Pneuma, he could have argued that the form (caste) of the off-
that trouble over what appears to them to be their own proper spring produced by mating with a male bee could have been
offspring [4] [GA 759a36-759b2] determined according to whether the queen was mated or
It is evident that neither Aristotle nor his beekeeper infor- not.
mants know the answer to the question of how bee social Eventually the philosopher gives up the effort to integrate
life and sexual reproduction are organized (this is not surpris- the sexual life of bees with that of any other animal and

ing since (i) queen bees copulate on the wing to acquire concludes that they are in a class of their own. He says:


This then appears to be the state of affairs with regard to the
generation of bees, so far as theory can take us, supplemented
by what are thought to be the facts about their behaviour.