The first option is But then he is faced by yet another difficulty: if bees do gen-
tuled out by the fact that each caste is clearly a single sex. erate offspring through copulation, then according to the
Among the arguments advanced to show that the other philosopher’s own theory of generation, they should generate
two theories are unreasonable, he points out that if bees are their own kind (i.e. caste), not a different kind of offspring.
not generated by their own kind, then surely there would Here he is handicapped by failing to realize that the ‘leaders’
be no reason for bees altruistically to nurture offspring that are actually female queens. Since in Aristotle’s scheme of gen-
are not their own: eration the form of the offspring is determined by male
All creatures which concern themselves about young ones take Pneuma, he could have argued that the form (caste) of the off-
that trouble over what appears to them to be their own proper spring produced by mating with a male bee could have been
offspring [4] [GA 759a36-759b2] determined according to whether the queen was mated or
It is evident that neither Aristotle nor his beekeeper infor- not.
mants know the answer to the question of how bee social Eventually the philosopher gives up the effort to integrate
life and sexual reproduction are organized (this is not surpris- the sexual life of bees with that of any other animal and

ing since (i) queen bees copulate on the wing to acquire concludes that they are in a class of their own. He says:


This then appears to be the state of affairs with regard to the
generation of bees, so far as theory can take us, supplemented
by what are thought to be the facts about their behaviour. But
the facts have not been sufficiently ascertained, and if at any
future time they are ascertained, then credence must be given
to the direct evidence of the senses more than to theories. [4]
[GA 760b28-33]

13. Aristotle: both epigenesis and preformation

As Devin Henry has pointed out [19], the autonomous devel-
opment of a new animal from the material of an apparently
formless egg can only be a source of wonder, whether
considered from the point of view of an ancient Greek, a
seventeenth century physician, or even a present-day citizen.