Aristotle: spontaneous generation and The above discussion is relevant to Aristotle’s treatment of
. insect metamorphosis, because of the philosopher's erro-

metamorphosis neous assertion that the eggs of holometabolous insects
As we have seen from the above, Aristotle thus not merely remain unfertilized; in this view, it is lack of Pneuma that
fails to dismiss the idea of spontaneous generation of living leaves the eggs of holometabolous insects ‘imperfect’ (i.e.
from non-living matter, specifically commenting without lacking the capacity to go on to form the ‘perfect’ or ‘com-
any apparent reservation that flies are generated de novo plete’ animal). This supposedly imperfect condition, he
from the carcasses of dead animals, but he actually incorpor- argues, requires them to undertake a life history that
ates the idea of spontaneous generation into his scheme for involves a period of growth and resource acquisition that
the reproduction of the single most numerous and diverse only later enables them to transform autonomously into a
category of animals. perfect or complete pupa and then into an adult. For Aristo-

Did Aristotle really believe in spontaneous generation? tle, the generation of insect larvae is the same thing as
Most Aristotelian scholars have concluded that this was in spontaneous generation.
fact the case, usually excusing the philosopher’s apparent The question of spontaneous generation is central to the
credulity on the grounds that this was an understandable theme of this paper because Aristotle now goes on, as a
error given the almost universal belief in the spontaneous for- direct result of his belief that many insects are generated
mation of some forms of life in ancient times [33]. If this is all spontaneously, explicitly to hypothesize a general connection
that is behind it, however, then it is hard to avoid the con- between complete metamorphosis and the presumed absence
clusion that the philosopher was culpable in failing to test of previous fertilization at the onset of life. The philosopher’s
the idea of spontaneous generation experimentally; it logical scheme is illustrated in figure 1b.