Selago or fig. 64 of L. clavatum, the
s of the similarity between them will be sufficiently plain. The potential
rium of Jsoetes clearly corresponds to the curved sporogenous mass of Lyco-
the chief difference lying in the differentiation of the former into sterile
glee and sporogenous masses. In fact, if we imagine a heterosporous Lycopod
bs sporangium widened out radially, and its enlarged sporogenous mass partly

Bd so as to form trabeculie, the result would be practically what is seen in

often wrongly assumed that the sporangia of Isoetes are actually partitioned,

e of the published drawings, if not corrected by description, support this
© The trabeculee are not partitions, but, as their name implies, rods of tissue
radiate upwards from the subarchesporial pad; they are frequently very
ar both in number and form; though, in our figs. 110 and 111, more regular
ss have been chosen, the specimen drawn as fig. 112 will sufficiently show
yregular branchings as may occur, while the structure of them is displayed more
il in fig. 113; here the spore-mother-cells have separated from one another and
bd off: the tissues forming the trabecule have differentiated into a superficial
m, here shaded, and central parts which remain after the tapetum becomes dis-
As the sporangia approach maturity all that remains of the trabecule
shrivelled central part, from which, as the spores ripen, the cell contents are
ed, so that even the cell-structure is difficult to make out (fig. 115). In this
‘a comparison may be made with what has already been seen in Lepidodendron ;
115 of Isoetes be put side by side with fig. 102 of Lepidodendron, the similarity
essively striking. I think the conclusion may fairly be drawn that the processes
ved in the sporangium of Lepidodendron are essentially s
tes, though we note differences of detail in their distribution in the two cases,
hough we are not in a position to state that their development in Lepido-
ron is like that in Isoetes.
hen further the form of the sporangium in the two cases is compared, especially
rge area and radial extension, it may be concluded that Lepidodendron presents
eters of the sporangium more closely similar to those of Isoctes than does any one
J

imilar to the trabeculee


534 PROFESSOR F. 0.