The more superficial tissues, as well as the band intervening betwe
two sporogenous masses remain sterile, the latter developing into the septum
the former develop into the walls of the synangium : it is specially to be note
the origin of the tissue of the sterile septum, which separates the sporangia, se
be similar to that of the sporogenous masses themselves. I have not been able to decide whether the archesporium is here defined at o
the first periclinal division of the superficial cells (fig. 120), or whether sue
additions are made to the sporogenous tissue by subsequent periclinal divisi¢
superficial cells, as in Hguisetum, and in a less degree in Jsoctes and Selagin ell
am, however, inclined to think the latter to be the case, since in such exam}
that shown in fig. 124, the superficial cells are very deep, while the lower cells aren
As the development proceeds, the original arrangement of the cells become
turbed by unequal growth (fig. 126); the more superficial layers develop int
rather massive wall, and the cells immediately surrounding the sporogenous
become compressed, and ultimately disorganized. It has been above noted that
difficult to recognize with certainty the exact limits of the sporogenous masses
synangia (compare fig. 126): this is probably due to the fact that there is no
clearly defined tapetum, nor is the whole of the sporogenous mass used up i
actual formation of spores, but a considerable proportion of the cells composi
acting as a diffused tapetum, become broken down, and disappear in a manner §
to that to be described more in detail in Psilotum (p. 549). OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 4 543

, a strand of vascular tissue, of which the origin may be traced in figs. 124,
ig formed, extending up the sporangiophore ; on entering the synangium, it
» to the base of the septum, and there branches right and left, the two
andles traversing the margins of the septum (compare figs. 146-148).
mature, the wall of the synangium consists of a superficial layer of deep
th thick cell-walls (figs. 146-148), which are similar to those of the wall of
angium of Lepidostrobus Brownii (fig. 93), and as in that fossil, so in
is, a band of thinner-walled compressed cells, three to four layers thick, sup-
e superficial layer internally (fig. 146). These cells have pitted walls, and are
initely limited internally, but irregular tatters of cell-wall project into the
the synangium, showing thus that there is no clear limit between the wall
synangium and the tapetum.
»tum shows in the main a structure similar to this inner band of the wall,
Sich it is continuous ; it consists of a firm plate of narrow tabular cells, four to
brs in thickness, with profusely pitted, woody walls.