Such a synangium in the young state is shown in fig. 161,
which it will be seen that the form of the synangium is of the type of fig, 1
groove between the lobes being almost obsolete; the vascular bundle stops sh
the base of the synangium, instead of passing far into it, as described for the 1
type; the place where the septum should be is indicated by a slight flange of
tissue projecting downwards from the upper wall (figs. 161, 162), but inste
continuing downwards as firm tissue, as in the normal synangia, it merges it
mass of cells which fill the synangium, and consists of (i.) cells with less
contents (the tapetum, ¢, fig. 162), and (ii.) more densely protoplasmic cells
sporogenous cells, s, fig. 162); the former appear as a peripheral band (¢, ¢), whil
latter (s, s) occupy the centre. The place where the septum should be de
special notice: there the tissue is disposed, roughly speaking, in rows, as im
normal synangium; the tissue opposite. the projecting flange of the incom
septum appears to be sometimes of the tapetal character, and disappears
synangium develops (fig. 163). But its cells may also be sporogenous (fig. 162); i
younger state they may be so recognized by their denser protoplasmic conten S,
the figure above quoted, but the best demonstration of this fact is afforded by
stages, where the sporogenous cells are more clearly distinguished, by their de
cell-walls and nuclei, from the tapetal cells which are undergoing disorganizi
Fig. 164 shows a whole synangium of the same type as fig. 159, cut in m
section; there is hardly any groove defining the two halves of the synangiun
no clear indication of the septum internally, while the cavity is occupied part
disorganized cells of the peripheral and diffused tapetum, partly by the sporog'


OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 547

hich hang together in connected masses. In fig. 165 part of the contents of
sium, lying about the centre of it, are represented under a high power, while
(aw, ) shows the position which the septum should normally occupy at present.
is plain that a connected thread of sporogenous cells, with definite cell-walls and
hich make them readily distinguishable from the tapetal cells, extends quite
that line ; thus it is demonstrated that the tissue which would normally develop
septum, may, on occasions, develop as tapetum, or even as sporogenous tissue.
. 166-168 illustrate other examples of a similar nature, which were also of size
low the normal. Figs. 166, 167 show two transverse sections of a small
jum, the first near its base, the second nearer to its upper surface.