We conclude from examination of sections, very clearly in the case
iBipteris, though with less clear demonstration in the more complex case of
H@n, that the synangium is a product of the adaxial surface of the sporangio-
and that it arises immediately below the organic apex of that part. These
Srengthen the conclusion already drawn by Soums from external observation,

» whole sporangiophore is a member of foliar nature, and that it is not com-
a shortened axis and leaves, as Juranryi suggested. I would add that,
f the synangium had proved to be terminal, there would be no need to have
se to so cumbrous, and I think improbable, an explanation of the fact, for to me
®is just as probable that a synangium may occupy the apex of a leaf, as that a
Bsium may be found at the apex of an axis; in this case the terminal or lateral
sn of the synangium would not affect the argument. This seems to have been
few of PRANTL also.
he lateral position of the synangium being demonstrated, and the conclusion
d at that the whole sporangiophore is a foliar structure, it remains to draw
risons with other plants, and in the first place with those to which the affinity
Psilotacese has always been recognized, viz., the Lycopodiaceee. The comparison
t relate to T’mesipteris, which is probably nearer akin to Lycopodium than is
If figs. 120, 121, 124 of T'mesipteris be compared with fig. 58 of L. clavatum,
r with figs. 71-74 of L. alpinum, the similarity will be obvious ; in both cases
wth has appeared on the upper surface of a leaf, involving a number of cells,
e undergoing anticlinal and periclinal divisions ; but whereas the growth in


552 PROFESSOR F. 0, BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY

Lycopodium is close to the base of the sporophyll, that in Tmesipteris ig
close to the apex ; this is the most salient point of difference at thi
however, be noted that an intermediate condition is seen in Isoetes (compare §
106, 107), where the sporangium is seated slightly above the basal limit of th,
phyll ; also in Lepidostrobus, where also there is an interval between the loy
of the sporangium and the insertion of the sporophyll on the axis; also that

some variety in the relation of the sporangium to the sporophyll in Selagi
Lycopodium.

8 stage,

The tangential section of the sporangium in certain species of Lycopodium
very considerable curved series of archesporial cells (figs. 42, 64, 76) ; in Tmes
the cells so exposed appear to be only two (figs. 127, 129, 130); this diffe
however, not very material, for we find somewhat similar variation within the
Lycopodium and Selaginella.