The two ancient western European samples, which are Scandinavia originated from another, yet unsampled, Late
approximately 12000 years old, were not closely related to Pleistocene population of arctic foxes, which in turn could
any of the modern or historical samples (figures 2 and 4). also imply that a local extinction/recolonization event may
While these two samples do not by themselves permit a com- have taken place in Beringia at the end of the last glaciation.
prehensive assessment of the mid-latitude European This hypothesis is consistent with earlier findings of end-
population’s genetic diversity, when combined with the Pleistocene population turnover in several other Arctic taxa
results from Dalén ef al. [10] they reinforce the conclusion in Beringia [5,6].

that the mid-latitude European population did not contribute
to the present-day mitochondrial diversity in the arctic fox. Together, these studies therefore support the hypothesis (b) Consequences of recent human persecution
that the mid-latitude European arctic fox population went Our results show that the Scandinavian arctic fox population
extinct at the end of the last glaciation, and thus that the lost at least 50% of its mitochondrial haplotypes as a result of
species’ range contraction was driven by local extinction the demographic bottleneck that started at the turn of the
events rather than postglacial habitat tracking. twentieth century (figure 4; electronic supplementary
An alternative hypothesis is that the mid-European popu- material figure S2). Moreover, compared to previous studies
lation did in fact recolonize the Scandinavian Peninsula [20], the higher resolution of the mitogenomic sequences
during the early Holocene, when previously glaciated areas allowed for better estimations of both haplotype and nucleo-

became suitable habitats, but that it subsequently went tide diversity, revealing previously unknown significant


losses following the bottleneck (figure 5). The coalescent Furthermore, there are suggestions that climate change has

simulations coupled with ABC analyses suggested an again started to affect the Scandinavian arctic fox population
approximately 20-fold decline in Ny, which is roughly in in recent decades, through an expansion and ensuing inter-
line with expectations based on historical records [16,17]. specific competition from red foxes that have moved into

We found five previously unknown haplotypes, three in the mountain areas previously inhabited by the arctic fox [58].
historical population and two in the contemporary population. Assuming that these consecutive losses of mitogenomic diver-

The two new haplotypes found in the modern population sity, owing to climate change and anthropogenic impact, also

were not shared with the historical population.