In this case, the explanation will not be distinc- less energy. Now we see that the topology that is described by com-
tively topological, but rather mechanistic, despite involving municability measures can affect energy requirements for changing
some network concepts. More generally, when the expla- the trajectories in the state space, and therefore how from particular

values of these measures it is possible to find both the exact energy
requirements and also the minimal ones.
7According to the explanatory relevance objection, the DN fails to

nation-seeking question is about how and why the system
arrived at having certain topological properties, the expla-

nation will not be distinctively topological, it will more distinguish between relevant and irrelevant antecedent facts, thus
likely be mechanistic. On the other hand, if the explanation- the following case would be considered a successful explanation:
seeking question is why the system displays certain (1) birth control pills prevent pregnancy, (2) Jones (a male) has

behaviours or dynamical properties given the topology that taken birth control pills, (3) therefore, Jones did not get pregnant.
y Prop. 8 porsy Clearly, Jones did not get pregnant because he does not have appro-

it instantiates, the explanation will be distinctively topologi- priate reproductive organs to become pregnant in the first place, thus
cal and it will employ either vertical or horizontal mode of the DN model focuses solely on inferential patterns, without provid-
describing counterfactual dependencies. ing a norm for explanatory relevance [24].


5Namely, the definition of the laws of nature does not distinguish
between accidental generalizations and lawful generalizations.

°However, some phenomena seem to permit symmetric explanations,
e.g. in one system of gas, decrease of volume can account for
increased pressure; in another, increased pressure can account for
decreased volume; or some laws of nature, especially in physics

also seem to provide symmetric explanations [25]. A good theory
of explanation should account for such cases as well.