The explanation thus does not appeal to contin-
metry of topological organization of the auditory cortex [35]. gent facts about wiring in any particular system, but to
The asymmetry of information flow can be thought of in counterfactual dependency between topological properties
terms of the efficiency of network communication. Efficiency that determine network communication, and thus that

in this context is measured by shortest path lengths (the fewer holds independently from any particular system. The facticity


criterion, or the fact that the system instantiates a certain top- different explanandum, which is a consequence of the explana-

ology, only tells us why such an explanation is true of a tory perspectivism condition, i.e. that the kind of explanatory
particular system, but the explanatory force stems from the questions determine whether we use vertical or horizontal
counterfactual dependence between the topological proper- explanatory mode, in which case the explanation may as
ties (communication efficiency) and network dynamics well be causal.
(direction of neural signalling), and that is why the instantia- Having discussed some ways in which the general theory
tion of topology in the system is not explanatory in itself [31]. of topological explanations accounts for explanatory asym-

A similar idea about the basis of topological directionality metries in both vertical and horizontal modes, in the next
comes from consideration of asymmetric network embedding section, I argue how the general theory and its accounting
in auditory cortices. Structural and functional differences in for the explanatory asymmetries can help to unify essential
auditory cortex affect the performance of a variety of sensory concepts of biological networks.
and cognitive tasks, such as speech and tonal processing =
([35], p. 2656). The structural and functional lateralization S

of the auditory cortex are explained by appealing to topologi- ; . ; ;
cal properties that determine the network embedding in 5.