In the paradigm
ence and functioning correspond to two modes that are of the second-order cybernetics, information is a perturbation
inseparable from living systems. ‘Thus, the identity of such of an autonomous cognitive system that either makes it
complex systems cannot be defined by their constituents, switch from one eigenbehaviour to another or, when the per-
but by the processes that take place in them, and which turbation is strong enough, leads to new eigenbehaviours
allow them to produce themselves continually, their autop- through a modification of the relationships between its
oietic character. Their fundamental invariant is their own elements” (i.e. learning process). However, sets of eigenbeha-
organization’ [40, p. 193]. viours could be so robust that even strong perturbations
However, in order to maintain this fundamental invariant hardly lead to a learning process, despite the fact that the
and thus to resist any interference from their environment, long-term survival of the cognitive entity could be at stake.
living systems need to constantly extract resources from this In the domain of social affairs, this robustness manifests
same environment (otherwise their functioning would vio- itself at the individual or collective level in terms of the
late the laws of thermodynamics). As pointed out by Clarke self-consistency of the (collective) belief system, who might
& Hansen [41], this struggle between the openness to the fail to take into account new information whatever its ‘true’
energy flows and the invariance of their organization with or ‘false’ value could be’®. Self-consistent beliefs systems
respect to the disturbances contributed by their environment often distinguish themselves by their understanding of caus-
is precisely what makes it possible to qualify living beings as ality and the importance they attach to it; they are named
entities endowed with cognition: ‘paradigms’, ‘ideologies’ or ‘religions’ according to their
‘Once the paradigmatic shift is made from the physical to propensity to learn from past experience.

the life science, the order-from-noise principle in  self-
organizing systems gives way to the openness-from-closure

principle in autopoietic systems.