Zeit.,’ 1881, Plate 6) is quite open to the same interpretation, a
the cell marked (t) is the result of division from the next outer, and not from th
inner cell, An examination of numerous sections of sporangia of S, spinos
strengthens the view that, at times, early periclinal division of the superficia
may contribute to the internal tissue of the sporangium, though I have not foun
point so clearly demonstrated in this species as in S. Martensii, My concl si
that the first periclinal division does not constantly define the archesporium, and
separate the internal mass of the sporangium from the sporangial wall, but
observed with constancy in Hquisetwm, and occasionally in other plants (L.
and alpinum), by periclinal divisions of the superficial cells additions may be 8
quently made to the archesporium, but these additions are not constant. Whatever may be the actual facts on the above point, there can be no doubi
after the archesporium has grown and undergone further segmentation, peril
divisions take place in the peripheral cells of the resulting mass of tissue, |
divisions separate off the tapetum from the sporogenous cells (figs. 87, 88, 89).
as Gorse has already pointed out (Joc. cit., p. 698) the tapetum of Selaginella
in its mode of origin from that of Lycopodium, but when we look back to the earth
phases, and recognize the periclinal divisions discussed in the preceding paragral
the distinction of the two types appears to be not so deep a one as he described


OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 525

er facts of differentiation of the sporangia, as mega- and micro-sporangia,
known; but there is, I believe, no published figure of the early stage of
tiation of the megaspore-mother-cell from the rest ; this is shown in fig. 91,
undergone tetrad-division, and beginning to enlarge, while the other cells
gporogenous mass remain undivided, lose their highly refractive contents, and
. disorganized. It is hardly necessary to remark that here is a further
ple of a partial sterilization of the potential sporogenous tissue, and the tapetum
elaginella is also another, since, though it is derived by segmentation from the

a mass, its cells take no direct part in the formation of spores.

= Summary of Results from Selaginella.

sporangium is eusporangiate, and arises from the tissue of the axis, above
s@ptending leaf ; the position varies in different species.
he origin of the sporangium is similar to that of Lycopodium, and especially
les L. inundatum, to which species the mature sporangium also is similar in
5
wo primary archesporial cells are usually present in each radial section, and
emare derived, as in L. inundatwm, from segmentation of two distinct cell-rows ;
2n in tangential section, the archesporium is referable to three or four such

athe first periclinal divisions in these cell-rows do not always define the
Bporium finally ; subsequent periclinal divisions may result in addition to the

‘mass, as has been proved for Equisetum ; but here the addition is less regular.
<afhe tapetum results from tangential division of the outermost cells of the
fil mass ; the greater part of it originates as described by GOEBEL.

.Elhe tapetum is thus a sterilized part of the potential sporogenous tissue ; a
oe. of sterilization is seen in the megasporangium, where all the
genous cells are disorganized, excepting the one mother-cell of the megaspores.
— sporangia are to be found at the base of the strobilus as in many

2 of Lycopodium. LEPIDODENDRON.