We may imagine
spore-production might be increased :—
By lengthening and even branching of the strobilus, and increase of the number
hylls and sporangia produced in ordinary sequence. SBy increase in size of the individual sporangium. SBy formation of adventitious sporangia in places where they were not pre-
3 produced.
@iwill consider each of these separately.
"The third head may be at once dismissed ; within the Lycopods and allied
Gvhich we are considering, no adventitious sporangia have been observed.
ngthening and branching of the strobilus has probably been a potent factor
oduction of the large Lycopodinous forms from a simpler ancestry ;* whether
Phylloglossum really represents, or is at all like such ancestors, it is not to be
24 that earlier ancestors were simpler than they, and it has been already
tked that the structure and development of its strobilus show facts not incom-
® with the recognition of its strobilus as the counterpart of a sporogonial head.
difficult to realize how a strobilus, gifted with continued apical growth, and
fer of branching (as is foreshadowed in the sporangia of some Bryophytes as a
pnormality, and also is seen in fig. 23 in Phylloglossum) might form a larger
of sporangia than its predecessors, and the total output of spores be thus
J. But to nourish the increasing number of spores, increased vegetative
Blopment will be needed : this need is not met in the Lycopods by increase of the
ative development of the sexual, but of the non-sexual generation, and on com-
ative grounds it appears to me probable that an increased assimilative power was
red by them in the following most interesting way. Tt is a familiar fact that
‘in species of Lycopodium have alternating sterile and fertile zones ; examining
nits of the fertile zones, the sporangia, though present, are abortive ; in the
ce of these arrested sporangia I believe that we have evidence that the whole
» of sterile and fertile zones is the result of partial sterilization of a primitive
lus, all potentially fertile, but of which parts are sterilized, and carry on merely
* See footnote, p. 484.


536 PROFESSOR F. 0.