The cells shaded are believed to be the archesporia, but I sho
slow to make precise statements on this point, and especially so in face of
culty, above noted, of assigning definite limits to the sporogenous tissue ii
synangia. Further stages of development are shown in figs. 140-142; and
allowance is made for the transverse sections cutting the cell-rows rather ob
(as must be the case in parts with a fan-like tracery), it will be seen that
verse sections fit with all reasonable closeness of comparison with the resi
the longitudinal. The main facts derived from the study of Psilotwm thus coincide with those


OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 2 551

esipteris, as regards the origin of the sporangiophore, and the appearance of
ium on its upper surface, below the extreme apex. The following points
sted as more specially applicable to Psilotum, in addition to those already
ized for Tmesipteris :—

s organic apex of the sporangiophore coincides with the groove between the
xm and the pair of abaxial growths (leaf-lobes), as seen in the mature state.
three-sided pyramidal cell is usually present at the apex of the synangium.
ach sporogenous mass appears to be referable in origin to a single parent cell,
has not been actually proved, it being difficult to assign sharp limits to the
ious masses.

» inner cells of the wall, as well as the superficial cells of the sporogenous
ecome disorganized, but there is no definitely distinguished tapetum.

tain cells of the sporogenous tissue scattered through the mass, are destroyed
WB forming spores, as is also the case in Equisetwm and in Tmesipteris.

s THEORETICAL TREATMENT OF RESULTS FROM PSILOTACE.

rvations above detailed show that the study of development by means of
= supports the observations of Soims, rather than those of JURANIYI, GOEBEL,

RTRAND. We conclude from examination of sections, very clearly in the case
iBipteris, though with less clear demonstration in the more complex case of
H@n, that the synangium is a product of the adaxial surface of the sporangio-
and that it arises immediately below the organic apex of that part.