The Lycopodinex are so st
characterized by the simple form of their leaves, that these parts of the Psil
call for special attention, It has been repeatedly remarked that the lea
Psilotum and Tmesipteris may appear double, though no synangium may be at
but these cases probably arise by abortion of a potential synangium, and are

be looked upon as double leaves normally produced ; in fact the vegetative |
these plants is normally simple, while the fertile sporangiophore bears lateral lols

* A somewhat similar case is to be found in the genus Najas, in which the single anther
quadrilocular in N. major, but only unilocular in N. minor, Ercunwr, ‘ Bliithendiagramme,’ p. >



OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 555

ts must be accepted as they stand, though the Lycopodinous leaf is else-
imple, and though it is decidedly exceptional to find sporophylls more
te in form than foliage leaves of the same plant. It must not be forgotten
e origin of the sporangiophore is like that of the foliage leaf, and that in
tenis the distinction can only be drawn when the development has proceeded

jum in both genera, and the synangium appears below the apex of the
riophore. These are the facts on which the foliar view is based, notwith-
the peculiarity of the lobed leaf when mature.
though peculiar, the lobes of the fertile leaves may be seen to serve a useful
ere, as elsewhere, the protection of the young synangia is a matter of
Snce; it is obvious that two lateral leaf-lobes would offer more protection
single terminal growth of similar form and size; the result is shown
Botwm, in figs. 139, 140, and for Tmesipteris, in fig. 145, where the synangium
“ely invested by the protecting lobes. Moreover, it is to be remarked that in
gases as these, where the synangia appear as very considerable and bulky
Sgn the adaxial face of the leaf, the foliage leaf itself being also flattened in a
uf,plane, the presence of an extended leaf-apex would be highly inconvenient in
ing of the parts in the bud, for the result would be a lax bud, in which the
parts would be greatly exposed. By the arrest of the apex of the leaf,
titution of the lateral lobes, as implied in the hypothesis above put forward,
@ compact bud is produced, and the synangia are better protected.