It is not entirely clear on what time scale (ontogenetic

or phylogenetic) this repurposing occurs in capuchins. Because not all individuals express the same rituals, and
these rituals are generally developed and expressed later in

life, it is likely that most individuals independently invent
these rituals by repurposing behavioural elements, and sub-
sequently socially transmit them to partners via ontogenetic
ritualization, i.e. that the borrowing occurs within the lifetime

of an individual. Given the similarities in form across so
many individuals and dyads, it seems likely that capuchins

as a species (or genus) have evolved a proclivity to prefer

to borrow these particular kinds of behaviours (i.e. elements

from the grooming, extractive foraging and food transfer
repertoires) rather than other behaviour types, owing in

part to the fact that they are descended from a long evolution-

ary line of animals that relies on extractive foraging and social
learning about food that occurs in a scrounging context; this
would be more of a phylogenetic argument.

partner might create links between the past, present and (d) Comparisons with human playground rituals

future of that dyadic relationship (a phenomenon akin to ‘tra- Besides these characteristics that are commonly aspects of defi-
ditionalism’ [22]), in which the dyad-specific ritual behaviour nitions of ritual, the behaviours we describe here have
may help create a mental representation of the social relation- additional characteristics that are part of Burghardt’s [25] defi-
ship. If this functional hypothesis is correct, then we would nition of play: (i) They appear to be spontaneous, pleasurable,
expect the following pattern of variation in capuchins: rewarding and voluntary for at least one, and almost always

(i) increasing homogeneity within each dyadic ritual, as the both, members of the dyad performing them. (ii) They are


performed in the absence of any obvious acute or chronic stress, than is consistent with many definitions of ritual in the ethol-

when the participants seem relatively relaxed. (iii) Elements ogy, psychology and anthropology literatures.
are often repeated within a single ritual performance or in sub- 3
sequent performances by the same dyad, but not typically in z
rigid rhythmic or stereotypic form. The lack of immediate pur- . . .