This results in complex population genomic signa-

Under linked selection encompassing both directional tures of local adaptation, frequently involving subtle allele
selection and background selection against deleterious frequency shifts at many loci [10,66,84]. Importantly, these
mutations, we would expect the weights of TWISST species intraspecific patterns are mirrored by polygenic architectures
tree topologies to be highest with low recombination rates, of fitness-related trait differences between hybridizing
while the weights of introgression topologies (or admixture- species, including our two showcase species for late-stage
related parameters more generally) should be released from speciation studied here, P. alba and P. tremula [39]. In fact,
this constraint or even increase with recombination [33]. the observed relationships of tree topology weights with
This is analogous to the expectation that in the presence of recombination rate in strongly divergent species [57,58] are
hybrid incompatibilities, introgressed ancestry in populations consistent with the polygenic, complex architecture of fit-
is more likely to persist in regions of high recombination [81]. ness-related trait differences recently identified by
In line with this expectation, we observed the expected ‘admixture mapping’ genome-wide association studies in
increase in species tree weights with reduced recombination hybrids [39]. Genomic regions supporting the species tree
rates for both early-stage and late-stage speciation taxa topology in late-stage speciation taxa apparently accumu-
(figure 5; electronic supplementary material, table S4; lated owing to linked selection across the genome.
topo6). The weights of putative introgression topologies in Nevertheless, this pattern is also expected to arise as a
late-stage speciation taxa, however, did not show the result of background selection or selective sweeps unrelated
expected increase for greater recombination rates (figure 5; to reproductive barriers, effectively lowering N. for chromo-
electronic supplementary material, table 54; topo4 and somal regions with low recombination rates [31,32].