CNVs that show consistent divergence in both comparisons of Choosy and Non-
Choosy populations are highlighted; they comprise two categories of CNVs: ‘Non-Choosiness-associated’ CNVs, that occur at high frequency exclusively in Non-Choosy
populations, and ‘Choosiness-associated’ CNVs, our prime candidates, that occur at high frequency exclusively in Choosy populations. Choosiness-associated CNVs
show a pattern of copy-number displacement and therefore show the clearest association with the evolution of positive assortative mate choice. (Online version
in colour.)

each of the four pools, tandem duplications were identified as a concordant difference in read depth ratio were considered as
clusters of ‘everted’ inserts, because read-pairs spanning a significantly differentiated between a pair of populations.

tandem duplication become everted when mapped to the refer-
ence genome (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). By

leveraging the fact that read-pairs spanning a deletion appear (ii) Identification of CNVs showing consistent divergence

unusually distant when mapped to the reference genome, del- between Choosy and Non-Choosy populations

etions were identified as clusters of adjacent, disproportionately To identify CNVs consistently differentiated between Choosy
large inserts [78] (electronic supplementary material, figure S2). and Non-Choosy populations within the focal subspecies
All CNVs identified were supported by a stringent minimum M. m. musculus, beyond population-specific differences, we only
of five discordant read-pairs. Two proxies for allele frequency retained CNVs that show consistent, ‘parallel’ divergence in
were used for those mutations: the number of read-pairs sup- the two independent pairwise comparisons involving Choosy
porting each CNV event and local read depth of coverage populations (Borum-Choosyl versus Hobro-Non-Choosy1;
(excluding highly repetitive regions). The chromosomal coordi- Lasby-Choosy2 versus Randers-Non-Choosy2; ‘consistent
nates of these mutations could then be compared between divergence’ in figure 1c).