Ss retrieve from cheek pouc!
3
3 allogroom a
a solicit allogroom
scrate!
autogroom Ln
any aggression |

mutual aggr
joint aggre
intercoalition aggr

grapple
lunge "
withdraw

charge

chase

flee

threaten

mounted threaten
submit com

displace

lean away

avoid

branch display

Figure 6. Observable behaviours by conspecifics influenced soto a decisions to look at or away from the video during free-viewing. (b) Conspecific behaviours also
influenced the consistency of monkeys’ gaze behaviour during free-viewing.

were also effective attractors of gaze to the overall scene. observation, the marginal utility of continued observation is
Among the foraging behaviours, ‘group foraging’, ‘hold low, decreasing the utility of continuous attention to the
food in mouth’ and ‘retrieve from cheek pouch’ were particu- behaviour for an external observer.

larly effective at attracting gaze to the video, consistent with Like monkeys’ decisions to look within from the video
the phenomenon of vicarious reinforcement [34]. The first of frame, gaze consistency was modulated by both visual fea-
these likely reflects the high information density when numer- tures and viewed behaviours, but the nature of this metric
ous conspecifics are behaving in the scene, and the latter two (and in particular the fact that it is not scale-invariant)
effects possibly indicate that close proximity of a food item means that the coefficients discovered by our model must
to a conspecific’s mouth is highly salient for rhesus macaques. be interpreted with some care. For example, direct, non-
Somewhat surprisingly, ‘allogroom’ was associated with a quantitative observations of the original videos with pooled
reduction in the probability of looking at the video, despite observations of gaze focus (electronic supplementary material,
its well-established importance for establishing and main- video) make it apparent that monkeys tend to consistently
taining social relationships in macaques [35]. We speculate direct gaze towards male genitals when they were present,
that because allogrooming is typically a lengthy behaviour yet the model reports a low-gaze consistency associated with

during which novel information is unlikely after the initial periods when male genitals are visible on the screen.