While we recognize the importance of the
to the social learning and transmission processes that gener- cultural evolutionary goal of putting ‘pre-history back into
ated the data being evaluated by the comparative method. anthropology’ [11, p. 406], we suspect more caution is still
Ideally, the tree will reflect diverse sources of data across needed. Evidence for our position lies in the increasingly con-
history, linguistics, genetics and archaeology (see also [41]). tradictory findings that are emerging in the literature
(iii) Investigators should consider carefully how the trait of regarding ancestral states, sequence of changes and adaptive
interest is transmitted, using ethnographic or historical value. The very fact that the field has grown enough to pro-
materials where available, taking care to differentiate mech- duce discrepant findings is positive and generates progress.
anisms of transmission for between and within populations; Discrepancies may well reflect lineage, region or scale-
this will inform about the potential rate of change, and specific effects, as well as differences in the definition or
whether the horizontal transmission is likely to be prevalent classification of traits which, with further research, will only
(see also [88]). (iv) Investigators should explore how missing increase our understanding of the drivers of cultural diver-
data, horizontal transmission and/or differential lineage sity, but we do need to keep in mind that methodological
extinction might influence their inferences for their particular problems might also be entailed.

sample (see our code: https: //github.com/dieterlukas /Cul-

turalMacroevolution_Simulation). Investigators may have
additional information about the transmission of the cultural

Data accessibility. The data of the raw output estimates from the phylo-
genetic reconstructions applied to simulated trait data across two

trait they are studying that can inform the analyses and there cultural phylogenies as described in the results are available at
are multiple ways to model such evolutionary processes. (v) Lukas D. (2021).