A third class of spontaneous epimutations affect TE TE copies belonging to the same family, in effect multiplying
sequences predominantly and result in most cases in a loss the spontaneous epimutation rate across the genome.
rather than a gain of methylation, and in all three contexts Thus, evaluating to what extent genetic backgrounds,
[67] (figure 2c). These epimutations, therefore, resemble the in terms of both genetic modifiers and TE landscapes,
stable epialleles induced experimentally using ddm1 or null influence the rate of spontaneous epimutations is crucial
nrpd1 mutants (figure 1) and indeed it was shown that over for our understanding of their evolutionary significance.

half of these epimutations are transmitted across generations
[71]. Furthermore, they occur at rates per methylated region
(mCHG and mCHH regions; figure 3) that are orders of mag-

nitude higher than the rate of mutations per nucleotide [69]. (d) Environmentally induced TE-associated

However, because TE sequences occupy only 20% of the epimutations

genomic space in A. thaliana, the spontaneous epimutation In addition to being generated spontaneously, epimutations

rate per genome is in fact very similar to that of point mutations could be induced by exposure to environmental stresses

[69,71] and only an order of magnitude above the TE insertion (figure 2d). Indeed, changes in epigenetic states, often

substitution rate measured in nature (figure 3) [54]. affecting TE sequences, have been described in response
We have already mentioned that the moderate loss of to environmental stresses, whether biotic or abiotic, in

DNA methylation induced by ddm1 at the RdDM target A. thaliana, crops (maize, rice, wheat, barley etc.) and trees

FWA can translate sporadically into a complete loss in (Populus and Quercus) (e.g. [74-76]). Detailed studies in


A. thaliana indicate that most changes in DNA methylation relies on differences in DNA methylation dynamics between

induced by salt or drought stress or by mild temperature asexual and sexual modes of reproduction.