By contrast, when inaccuracies
Identity processes relate to the strength of identification with are examined among perceptions of the intergroup gap in ideo-
social groups (e.g. political parties) for the self, fellow ingroup logical positions, those with less extreme partisan positions
members and the outgroup. Outgroup feelings and attribu- [17], weaker ingroup identity [14,21] and less political sophis-
tions are phenomena that are generally other-focused, tication [1] are more accurate. These disparate findings
domain/issue-general and affective, including prejudice, highlight the need for scholars to carefully disambiguate the
distrust and assumed negative reciprocity. inaccurate beliefs they are investigating, as inaccuracies =

across differing phenomena (e.g. factual statistics versus the = &
attitudes of specific others versus the true intergroup gap in

(b) How inaccuracy in first versus second-order beliefs attitudes) may have distinct psychological antecedents. =

lead to actual polarization ii) Second-order belief 3S
Table 1 highlights the manner in which (mis)perceived (il) econ a cr cllers . i
polarization is conceptually distinct from other forms of polar- Negative and inaccurate second-order beliefs about how a

‘they’ see ‘us’ (meta-perceptions) also play a central role in = &

ization, but also how (mis)perceived polarization can refer to ae . .
driving intergroup conflict and have been noted as a likely

two distinct meta-cognitive judgements: inaccurate _first- ey Co w
order beliefs about how others identify or how far apart two contributor to ‘toxic’ polarization [4]. For example, Democrats a
groups are on an issue (e.g. perceived partisan gap), and inac- and Republicans with the most extreme ideological attitudes
curate second-order beliefs about what others think about were the most likely to overestimate the levels of prejudice S

and dehumanization their respective out-party held towards ==
them. These inaccurate meta-perceptions were, in turn,
uniquely associated with a willingness to violate democratic
norms in favour of ingroup loyalty [29].