Once the weight of the other families of the dataset
increases, the diversity of the simulated samples increases as well.

change in the level of characters employed also began to be
explored, based on developments in generative syntax and

cognitive sciences [8-10]. In this article, we have shown that Interestingly, though, this is not sufficient to substantially change
an interesting step forward in the study of language prehis- the results of most tests.
tory may be achieved by combining these two approaches °The present-day locations have remained relatively stable for almost

A zi 10 centuries in the case of Turkish, nearly 12 for Hungarian, and over
to provide a long-sought solution to a core problem of taxo- 4 y i 4
P i i P 30 for Estonian and Finnish. For the other populations, we have safe

nomic linguistics: working out a computable method for historical sources only in the last millennium, but at least they do not
assessing relatedness between families against chance when record very salient movements and migrations in this period, except

etymological evidence is missing. for Mongolians.


°Smeets [93] shows that Hurrian was spoken all across the Fertile
Crescent in the third and second millennia BC; Urartian was the
language of the powerful state Urartu, which functioned around
Lake Van between 1000 BC and 585 BC [94].

7In fact, some historical evidence of contact exists in the relevant
domain: e.g. Mongolian and Tungusic populations may have been
in contact with each other due to original geographic proximity (in
the Lake Baikal area) and to their being part of the Mongol empire
[104-106], and both Mongolian and Turkic populations had contacts
with non-Balto-Finnic Uralic speakers until recently. If these contacts

may explain some genetic and partly phonemic convergence [107],
then the question that remains is indeed which deeper source
explains the stronger syntactic similarity obtained for Finno-Ugric
and Alltaic.

8Also see Ceolin et al. [10] for an extended discussion, and Santos
et al. [107] for correlated syntactic/genetic effects.

°This contact was demographically so intense that the current genetic
composition of Hungarian speakers is largely the same as that of
their neighbours, with very limited traces of more Oriental sources
[90,107], among others.