I would also like to acknowledge Antonio Benitez-Buracco
methods are generally limited with regard to how far back and Ljiljana Progovac for some useful discussions, and three anon-

in time they can go. While the phylogenetic approach is ymous reviewers for their helpful and constructive comments on
based on the assumption that language in the distant past an earlier draft of this paper.
was very different from how it is today, the diachronic =
approach is generally guided by the Uniformitarian Hypoth- =
esis, in accoriance with which languages a the recently Endnotes ~
reconstructible past are cut from the same cloth as are contem- =:
1 P dd t differ f th . i ti ‘Following the distinction made by Dahl [4] and others, complexity is _
porary languages and clo not alter trom them in systematic taken here to be an absolute and objective structural property of an Ss
ways. Thus, the distinction between these two approaches abstract system, rather than a user-related property involving ease >
ystem, property 8

rests on a factual assumption to the effect that the arc of devel- of acquisition, production or comprehension. =
: . ws
opment of human language comprises two distinct stages, an *An adequate account for why the Complexity Covariance Hypoth- = &
earlier phylogenetic stage in which the very nature of esis should be valid in some domains but not others would call for —
1 di h d devel foll db a detailed analysis of the diverse causal mechanisms that underlie her}
anguage un erwent ¢ ange an evelopment, followed by the variegated findings mentioned above, an endeavour that lies a
a latter diachronic stage, in which the overall ground plans well beyond the scope of the present paper. &
of language remained the same and whatever changes took “The measures listed in (3) derive, for the most part, from a large S&S
place were relatively minor, constrained by the overarching body of studies attempting to relate cultural and socio-political fea- S
s

tures to linguistic ones, some of which were referred to in the
preceding section. In particular, the notions of simplicity and com-
plexity in the cultural and socio-political domains are closely

unity of modern human languages. The findings of this paper pose a challenge to such a neat

dichotomy between phylogenetic and diachronic approaches. connected to the distinction between esoteric and exoteric modes of
In the relatively recent past, the increase in prevalence of communication, introduced by Thurston [30] and further developed
obligatory TAM marking in the likes of Bantu and Oceanic by Wray & Grace [16]—see also Benitez-Buracco & Progovac [31] and

Gil [32] for further applications of these terms.