For example, environmental philosopher
assumes that researchers can carefully control the experiences Howard Curzer and others have proposed that the 3Rs fra-
of their research animals to minimize suffering, but such con- mework—which is commonly applied to animal research
trol is impossible in the field, meaning that animal welfare is around the world and emphasizes replacing animals with
often unknown and difficult to control. other methods of testing, reducing the number of animals

For this and various other reasons, research participants used in research and refining procedures to minimize suffer-
regularly complained that the A(SP)A was not written with ing—should be replaced with 9Rs for wildlife research, =
field research in mind, and in some ways is an awkward which prompt consideration of not only individual animal =
fit. Similar views have been expressed by researchers work- welfare but also the effects of research on populations and __
ing in the USA, who have proposed that Institutional ecosystems [56,57]. =
Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) are not oriented This suggestion echoes broader conversations about inte- 5!
towards field-based animal research, and may fail to compre- grating animal welfare with conservation, such as via a = >
hend the important differences between research in the ‘compassionate conservation’ approach, which encourages =
laboratory and field [33,52-55]. The idea that animal welfare consideration of both the interests of individual animals 3
regulations are an awkward fit for field research may refer and ecosystems in conservation decision-making [15-17]. i]
not only just to practical matters, but also to ethical prin- This proposal is made in light of the fact that individual ani- S
ciples. For example, many research participants referred to mals are often harmed for the sake of ecosystem or
the principle of avoiding perturbation as justification for population health (e.g. non-native or overly abundant ani- Ss
why they would treat any illnesses or injuries that they had mals are often culled), which social scientists have &
clearly caused (e.g. trap-related injuries), but would avoid identified as the problem of ‘violent care’ inherent in conser-
euthanizing or treating animals where the problems were vation [13,14]. However, neither 9Rs nor compassionate
due to ‘natural’ causes, as this could alter the functioning of conservation fully resolves these dilemmas, since while
the population and ecosystem under study and thereby both frameworks encourage attending to the interests of
pose both a scientific and ethical challenge.