Fourth and last, by modelling alternative
complex improvised rhythms at such rapid tempos? error-correction coupling patterns in simulated performances
A Malian jembe trio consists of three distinct musical roles, of Suku, to determine what the optimal role-specific coupling
each assigned to a particular instrument and player: a virtuosic patterns for jembe trios would be and then compare them
and highly variative lead role (Jembe 1), a short and simple with the coupling patterns we have observed in our data.
unvarying accompaniment that projects the basic beat Our broader aim is to document how temporal precision in
(Jembe 2) and a moderately variative ‘timeline’ pattern that human joint action depends on both the differentiation and
is characteristic of a given piece (Dundun; figure 1; details in optimal coordination of social—-musical roles.
electronic supplementary material, §3.1). Here, we present a Many musical factors, such as pulse clarity, event density,
novel experimental paradigm for studying musico-social onset perceptibility, musicians’ skills, musical practices
coordination, a controlled field experiment that exploits the (e.g. rehearsal prior to performance, improvisation during per-
conventional practice of role-switching among members of a formance) and style-specific aesthetic ideals, all can contribute
drum ensemble: during their hours-long performances in the to the degree of precision in ensemble synchronization.
context of rituals and social celebrations, the lead and accom- For example, the crisp onsets produced by drum-strokes in con-
paniment jembe players will often switch roles. We collected trast with other types of instrument sounds may constitute a
data from 72 studio-recordings of a single piece, ‘Suku’ (see precondition to a particularly high degree of precision, which
electronic supplementary material, figure S1) by four different may be reflected in the fact that the most precise synchrony
jembe trio ensembles (16-22 trials or ‘takes’ per ensemble; see hitherto documented involves either percussion ensembles
electronic supplementary material, table S1), with Jembe 1 (Malian jembe and Uruguayan candombe) or percussion-heavy
and Jembe 2 players systematically switching roles; the music (Cuban son; table 1). Relatedly, percussionists often out-
Dundun player remained constant (figure 1). Performances perform non-percussionist musicians in rhythm perception
were recorded with piezoelectric transducers attached to skills, particularly in the context of sensorimotor synchronization
each drum head (inset of figure 1a), yielding over 154000 tasks [18]; the state of research on this issue is ambivalent, how-
data-points for timing analysis (see §§4a,b). ever [19].