In this paper, we have highlighted how: (i) masting and
Refilling of decayed or emptied storage pools can occur at disturbances (fire, drought, wind and possibly other agents)
continuous rates or in synchronized pulses through masting. are observed to co-occur consistently across global forest
Masting allows plants to concentrate reproductive efforts in biomes; (ii) reproductive success can be improved or ham-
specific years, thereby increasing the number of stored propa- pered when masting co-occurs with disturbances, depending
gules in a mast year relative to non-masting species. However, on the relative timing of the two events; (iii) masting and dis-
even if masting improves seed production and/or seedling turbances can share similar environmental triggers, which
survivorship, this advantage could be greatly diminished by hints at active selection of masting traits due to filtering from
the intense competition among young plants [53,136-138]. given features of disturbance regimes; (iv) masting
Density-dependent mortality works against positive selection contributes to the storage of plant propagules, which is
of masting as a strategy for adaptive reproduction under dis- involved in reproductive bet-hedging strategies and plays a
turbances. Tachiki & Iwasa [139] concluded that, in closed- role in evolutionarily stable reproductive syndromes in
canopy forest species, masting never evolves if all vacant disturbed environments.
sites (gaps) are filled by individuals from seeds produced in Many questions remain open to exploration (table 1).
the same year (i.e. if reproductive potential is not stored), A first group of questions is related to elements of disturb-
despite the fact that trees reproducing intermittently enjoy a ance regimes: Which types of disturbance regimes better fit
higher pollination success than trees reproducing annually. and reinforce masting? How do disturbance size, frequency
When seedlings have low survivorship, trees evolve to repro- and severity affect the emergence and success of masting?
duce every year to retain their position in the seedling bank. By What other elements of a disturbance regime can be respon-
contrast, when seedlings have high survivorship, they can use sible for masting trait selection?