He describes the finding with an enthusiasm unusual and different statistical frameworks. Novembre also analyses

in scientific papers [1, p. 396]: ‘The results are quite remark- and seeks to reconcile criticisms that have emerged regarding

able .... Less than 15% of all human diversity is accounted Lewontin’s study, and he provides suggestions about teaching

for by differences between human groups!’ The fact that its result.

most genetic diversity lies within populations rather than Shen & Feldman [6] discuss how Lewontin’s study =

between them is surprising if one takes observations of racia- emerged not only from the connection to the ‘classical’ and >

lized physical traits such as skin colour to be representative of ‘balance’ argument in evolutionary biology, but also from Ss

typical patterns of genetic diversity and divergence. ongoing discussions of race and genetics that flared after =
Lewontin’s style shifts in transitioning to the paper’s two the publication of inflammatory claims prior to Lewontin’s = 5!

final paragraphs, which provide his interpretation of the study. They then look ahead to Lewontin’s subsequent =

results [1, p. 397]: work, tracing the paper as an element of Lewontin’s career- =
It is clear that our perception of relatively large differences between long efforts to argue against biological-determinist views of g
human races and subgroups, as compared to the variation within human traits and incorrect or unsupported attributions of 3
these groups, is indeed a biased perception and that, based on complex phenotypic differences among human populations =
randonly [sic] chosen genetic differences, human races and popu- to genetic differences among populations. They reflect on SS
lations are remarkably similar to each other, with the largest part the continuing relevance of Lewontin’s work against 8
by far of human variation being accounted for by the differences Ss

racism, biological determinism, and adaptationism in light Ss
of the re-emergence of such ideas.