By virtue of downstream or recurrent = >
nounced, as in the extent of the hippocampus of the projections to the thalamus, the action may thereby be =
armadillo in figure 5, that it seems entirely possible that com- aborted, modified or executed, and in time elevated to 3
pletely different strategies for common needs might have habit [186,211]. ‘Hierarchical reinforcement learning’ may =
developed independently. For example, a nocturnal olfactory introduce levels of execution to such a command, which
specialist might develop a fully memorized allocentric may integrate sequences. ‘Planning’ as discussed in this
environmental representation for avoidance of and escape paper involves computation of the virtual consequences of Ss
from predators and for foraging, while a neocortex-depen- any one, or a set of independent decisions, extending in a 8
dent animal might use the cued-array map described branching tree-like fashion to several expected outcomes.
earlier, augmented by sequence information contributed by We suggested, with minimal elaboration, that the combina-
its hippocampal formation. The fact that the largest mamma- torial procedure used to compute an egocentric location, or
lian predators in our sample have the largest, and most a limb position as described by Andersen, Colby and col-
symmetric representation of both subcomponents is highly leagues previously—if reimagined as decision consequences
interesting. Balanced or asymmetric, the information sources strung out over time—might support sequential planning.
of these two anatomical entities must be integrated in some Many other solutions are possible, of course, even likely—
way, and the nature of information integration in intervening hybrid decisions involving multiple structures and decision
structures in the animals with the most distinct lifestyle and classes for example [253].
structural differences, for example, entorhinal cortex or the We briefly mentioned the interesting clue from follow ups
amygdala, would be very informative about how such infor- on the success of the latest offspring of AlphaGo, MuZero, on
mation-integration problems are solved in evolutionary time. why adding model-based planning can lead to efficiencies in

learning compared to model-free reinforcement learning
with massive training. Planning may act to prune an infinite

(c) Prediction and planning range of possible sequences into the future into a more infor-
The burgeoning of interest in predictive coding as a ubiqui- mative set for efficient learning, particularly useful in volatile
tous process in neural computation has immediate environments where the shelf life of canned solutions is short.
relevance for how to view the evolutionary account of the However, why is it enriched in some animals and less so in
emergence of planning as a useful component of the behav- others?