The rationale for this =
actions to be controlled for [64,123]. Finally, awareness of the appears to be that a claim is more convincing when sup- = &
unreliability of certain assays for oxytocin is now widespread, ported by diverse sources of evidence. This may be true =
and there have been new efforts to establish reliable assays, as when the diverse sources of evidence all address the same
we have also detailed. issue of fact; but when the diverse sources comprise a narra- &
However, while recent articles may include some that are tive chain rather than convergent evidence, the chain itself is =
much more reliable than the highly cited older papers, they only as strong as its weakest link—and when papers contain a
have had little citation impact to date. Of the primary multiple technological elements, not all receive equivalent
research papers published since 2016, the best cited [124] scrutiny by peer reviewers.
has an indegree of 60, and only four have an indegree of Looking back over the last 15 years, we might note that
more than 40. the narrative of a prosocial role for oxytocin attracted enor-
Two of these are small trials of intranasal oxytocin in chil- mous media interest at a time when scientists have been
dren with autism [124,125], both reporting effects on social urged as never before by their funders to reach out to the
responsiveness but not on repetitive behaviours. As noted public and demonstrate the social relevance of their work.
earlier, two similar but much larger trials, both with negative For a few years, at a time when scientists were measured
outcomes, were published in 2020 [98] and 2021 [99], too late by their citation impact as never before, and a time when
to be cited enough to register in this analysis. journals were desperate to increase their impact factors,
Another, by Spengler et al. [126], is an fMRI study of the papers in this field gathered an exceptional and unsustain-
effects of intranasal oxytocin on amygdala responses to fear- able citation impact.