Non-verbal influences on new technologies such as autonomous vehicles [16] or brain
behaviour are often non-conscious: ina study with voice trans- stimulation [26], potential public policies such as legalizing pay-
formation, mock patients calling 911 medical triage with a ments to kidney donors [27], but also downright futuristic
more dominant voice obtained more urgent medical responses scenarios such as mind upload [28], sex robots [29] or cognitive
from doctors but doctors did not attribute the cause of their be- enhancement with brain implants [30] (figure 1d). The exper-
haviour to the patient’s voice; rather, they wrongly attributed imental ethics approach allows comparing different situation
it to more urgent medical situations [20] (figure 2, bottom). variants that may make or break dilemmas (e.g. whether
Technologies able to trigger such unconscious reactions are imagining oneself as the conductor of an autonomous car
therefore intrinsically manipulative, as people may not be changes one’s attitude to how to react to accidents—[16]) and
able to identify the transformation as the cause for their sub- whether these effects are modulated by individual differences
sequent behaviour. Finally, they also raise concerns about (e.g. whether a person’s familiarity with science fiction
transparency, as their deployment in virtual conversations themes modulates their attitude towards robots—[29]).
lends itself to situations where a speaker does not know how Here, we employed the methodology of experimental
their interlocutor is hearing or seeing them, i.e. whether a ethics to gauge societal attitudes towards emotional voice
transformation of their own voice or face is applied without transformation technology. We asked N = 303 online partici-
their knowing. pants to read 24 short text vignettes describing potential
However, none of these deontological concerns warrants a applications of vocal deep-fakes, and rate how morally
straightforward moral objection to the deployment of expres- acceptable they thought each scenario is. Participants were

sive transformation technologies, because each of them also presented with a cover story describing an imaginary


A’s voice is transformed to mask their
belonging to a minority group

desirable outcome:
reduced discrimination,
better hiring decisions,

B is a recruiter
interviewing A for a
position via an online S

A is from a minority
group discriminated
against in hiring

decisions increased workplace diversity platform Ss

>

A 5

A isa patient problematic outcome: Bisa triage =

demanding urgent B is coerced into giving A undue operator for 911 =

service from 911 medical resources, which are then responding to A’s i
yyy denied to more urgent cases phone call

a)

[ x | > =

8

a

A’s voice is transformed to sound 7

more assertive and dominating Ss

5

Figure 2.