Likert scale, anchored by 1 fotally unacceptable and 9 totally
therapeutically) or enhance user capacities (condition acceptable.
repair: n= 6; enhance: n=6). Examples of repair vignettes
included using the device to help a depressive patient
communicate with their close ones with a more enthusias- (e) Attitude question naires
tic tone of voice; examples of enhance situations included In addition to providing moral judgements about the vignettes,
using the same transformation to help a politician gather participants completed two questionnaires measuring their atti-
more following. In repair vignettes, the device was tudes toward morality (Moral Foundations Questionnaire MFQ;
described as being prescribed to the user by a doctor; in [31]) and toward technology and science fiction (Science Fiction
enhance vignettes, the device was recommended by a life Hobbyism Scale SFH; [28]).
coach. The MFQ consists of 32 short questions (30 items + 2 foil items)
(ii) the kind of voice transformation operated by the device, about how relevant various considerations are (e.g. whether or not
either reducing anger (n = 2; e.g. making angry customers’ someone suffered emotionally) when deciding whether something is
voices less taxing to attend to, for call-centre operators), right or wrong, rated from 1 (not at all relevant) to 7 (extremely rel-
reducing anxiety (n =4; e.g. helping a budding actor over- evant), and how much the participant agrees with various moral
come stage-fright) or enhancing smile (n = 6; e.g. helping a positions (e.g. compassion for those who are suffering is the most cru-
waiter gather more tips from customers). cial virtue; rated from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree). In
(iii) whether the voice transformation affects how the user’s accordance with typical MFQ analysis [31], we grouped and aver-
voice is heard by others (condition production: n= 4), aged each participant responses along the five subscales of care-
how the user hears other persons’ voices (condition per- harm (6 items; e.g. whether or not someone suffered emotionally), fair-
ception: n=4), or whether it is used in a situation where ness-cheating (5 items; e.g. whether or not some people were treated

the user hears their own manipulated voice (condition differently from others), loyalty-betrayal (6 items; e.g. whether or


not someone did something to betray their group), authority-subver- (f) Statistical analyses

sion (5 items; e.g. whether or not an action caused chaos or disorder),
and purity—degradation (6 items; e.g. whether or not someone vio-
lated standards of purity and decency).