If true, this may prefigure a situation where, sound robotic at times?), or combining the approach with

when broadly adopted, expressive technology would shift qualitative ethnographic methods documenting the appro-

the moral responsibility associated to certain emotions or priation of the device by potential users (e.g. how real call-

behaviours: expressions which were once normal to not con- centre operators end up using a smile transformation) [65].

trol (e.g. one cannot be blamed for stress [51]) may become Finally, it should also be noted that, even though we designed

controllable, and thus blamable and subjected to social the present 12 vignettes to span a wide range of situations, it

demand (e.g. ‘why didn’t you put stress-control on?’, [52]). To remains an open question whether our conclusions generalize

further test this idea, it would be interesting to examine scen- to other types of vocal deep-fakes, and/or other types of

arios involving non-deliberate positive expressions (eg. using situations than those tested here.

a transformation to avoid giggling uncontrollably at a fun- Feelings and emotions are at the forefront of the political

eral) or to examine how the present results are modulated behaviour of citizens and policy makers [66]. It will be essen-

by cultural differences in emotional display norms [53]. tial for our societal future to clarify the determinants of moral
Finally, across-the-board positive associations with the judgements about technologies able to customize and control

participants’ familiarity with science fiction indicate a robust these behaviours, in order to guide norm-setting regarding

effect of cultural conditioning on the acceptance of voice trans- their applications.

formation technology. As already remarked for brain implants
[28] or cognitive enhancement [30], exposure to futuristic

themes and ideas appears associated with less resistance to 4. Material and methods

technologies which challenge our conception of human

nature.