If these latter
| alone, we might have doubted whether the small spores were not foreign
sir presence, however, as members of the tetrads, within the mother-cell-
ves conclusively that they are really sister-cells which have remained behind
‘3 in their development. The phenomenon is extremely frequent, as is
ly indicated by the figures.
» not think there is any reason to doubt that four spores were regularly
hin each mother-cell, as is constantly the case in all recent vascular
ams. It seems, however, to have been the exception for all four to be
eveloped.
quent abortion of many of the spores in a sporangium, so frequent that we
regard it as a normal process, seems to us to be a fact of extreme interest.
nnot doubt that Calamostachys Binneyana was a homosporous form. ‘The
imber of specimens available for investigation, many of them including all
E the strobilus, establishes the strongest presumption that macrospores must
n found, if they existed.
now, however, that the closely similar species, C. Casheana, was hetero-
3 microspores not being very different in size from the normal spores of
ana, When we come to describe the heterosporous species, we shall find
ason to believe that in its macrosporangia a constant abortion of some of the
mt on.
ould suggest the hypothesis that the abortion of certain of the spores, and
ment increased nutrition of their surviving fellows, may have been the
condition which ultimately rendered possible the development of
ed macrospores.
snow that among existing heterosporous vascular Cryptogams the abortion,
bf the majority of the mother-cells (Ligulatze), or, in addition, that of the
‘is of the macrospore (Rhizocarpez), is a constant accompaniment of the
development of the surviving spore or spores.
ow also that in Hquisetum, which is homosporous, but in which the prothalli
ly dicecious, it depends upon the nutrition whether a spore develops into
w female prothallus. The better fed prothalli become female, the worse fed,

ostachys we have the intermediate conditions.