They postulate that in contrast to the small population, and periodically restarted if evolution stag- = =
common view that ‘the body shapes the brain’ [14] that nates with an increased population size; and (ii) a novelty =
they in fact observe ‘the brain shaping the body’. Further- mechanism [39] is added in order to maintain diversity. A | >
more, they observe that the learning delta—the difference comparison to another type of learner—a Bayesian optimizer =
between the fitness of the inherited controller and that of (BO)—shows that although both methods can achieve similar &
the learned controller—increases over time, suggesting that performance, the computational running time of their ©
adding learning directs the evolving population towards method is significantly shorter than BO and is therefore S
morphologies which are more capable of learning. preferable in the context of physical robotics. &
=
(i) Individual learning from scratch (c) Joint optimization with individual and cultural x
The methods just described make use of indirect encodings of learni ng
the controller in order to address the problem of the mis- While the previous section has focused on individual
match between the structure of an inherited controller and learning mechanisms in which an individual robot improves
the potentially modified morphology of a child robot. its controller based only on information gathered during its
Although this elegantly solves the mis-match issue, there own lifetime, we now turn our attention of mechanisms
are some downsides: using an indirect encoding, the fitness which enable the individual learning phase described in the
landscape can be discontinuous—small changes in the geno- TOL [20] to be influenced by cultural information.
type can lead to major changes in the phenotype (and in fact Cultural algorithms were first introduced into the field of
the opposite, i.e. a major genotypic change can lead to a small artificial evolution in 1990s [23,40]. They are based on the
phenotypic change). Several authors have also noted that the notion that in advanced societies, culture accumulates in the
evolution progress using an indirect encoding is slower than form of knowledge-repositories that capture information
that of a direct one (e.g. [36]), something that is of particular acquired by multiple individuals over years of experience.
concern if one is hoping to conduct fitness evaluations in If a new individual has access to this repository of infor-
hardware.