They again use 5
the genetically encoded algorithm itself. Running exper- an EA as the learner (applied from scratch to a randomly ==
iments with and without learning, they find that the robots initialized population), but propose two modifications to =
created via learning have significantly different morphology increase efficiency [38]: (i) the EA is initialized with a very __
than those without. They postulate that in contrast to the small population, and periodically restarted if evolution stag- = =
common view that ‘the body shapes the brain’ [14] that nates with an increased population size; and (ii) a novelty =
they in fact observe ‘the brain shaping the body’. Further- mechanism [39] is added in order to maintain diversity. A | >
more, they observe that the learning delta—the difference comparison to another type of learner—a Bayesian optimizer =
between the fitness of the inherited controller and that of (BO)—shows that although both methods can achieve similar &
the learned controller—increases over time, suggesting that performance, the computational running time of their ©
adding learning directs the evolving population towards method is significantly shorter than BO and is therefore S
morphologies which are more capable of learning. preferable in the context of physical robotics. &
=
(i) Individual learning from scratch (c) Joint optimization with individual and cultural x
The methods just described make use of indirect encodings of learni ng
the controller in order to address the problem of the mis- While the previous section has focused on individual
match between the structure of an inherited controller and learning mechanisms in which an individual robot improves
the potentially modified morphology of a child robot. its controller based only on information gathered during its
Although this elegantly solves the mis-match issue, there own lifetime, we now turn our attention of mechanisms
are some downsides: using an indirect encoding, the fitness which enable the individual learning phase described in the
landscape can be discontinuous—small changes in the geno- TOL [20] to be influenced by cultural information.
type can lead to major changes in the phenotype (and in fact Cultural algorithms were first introduced into the field of
the opposite, i.e. a major genotypic change can lead to a small artificial evolution in 1990s [23,40].