Moreover, in none and non-emotional laughter, is anchored to the frontal/Rolan-
of the elicited responses was it possible to envision any dic operculum and the primary motor cortex—with pre-SMA
functional connection with laughter or part of it. connected to both the pACC-L and frontal/Rolandic

It can therefore be concluded that, in our dataset, the only operculum.
region from where Jaughter was elicited by HE-ES is the The parallelism between our effective connectivity data
pACCL, laughter elicited by the pACCL being an inclusion and structural connectivity data is, by contrast, more complex
criterion of the present study (see §2a(i)). The fact that laugh- when considering the connection between the pACC-L and
ter was not elicited from any of the regions connected to the the other cortical node of the emotional network, i.e. the
pACC-L rules out the possible objection that the laughter anterior temporal lobe. In our study, in fact, we did not =
Tesponse originally elicited from the pACC-L could be due find any clear projection from the pACC-L to the anterior = =
to the downstream recruitment of pACC-connected areas. temporal lobe, but only a few contacts showing CCEPs in =

the rostralmost part of the STS. This result leads to three =

mutually exclusive hypotheses: (a) the representation of — &
4, Discussion laughter in the temporal region is not connected to that =
The present study stemmed from the evidence that HF-ES of housed in the pACC-L, despite the structural connection, — 5
the pACC elicits bursts of laughter, and investigated the ana- (b) the temporal region responsible for laughter extends Ss
tomical and functional interactions between the pACC-L and caudally, including the anterior STS (very unlikely, given =
other cortical regions. This goal was achieved by combining that there are no reports of laughter elicited by HF-ES of &

the anterior STS), or (c) the anterior temporal lobe has asym-

two distinct approaches to electrical stimulation in SEEG -. a
metric effective connectivity patterns, projecting to—but not

patients.