Current single-cell genomic impact here is large owing to genome-wide linkage. In this
techniques are too error prone and sparse in their coverage way, an adaptive sweep can purge all existing diversity and
of the genome. Instead, culture-based approaches that use produce a population founded from a recent single cell.

the fact that colonies are typically founded by single cells, Therefore, positive selection and genetic draft keep z low,


global within-species diversity within-person, within-species diversity

(a) (b) phylogroup. strain (©) whole-genome level
level level colony 1
4 Se colony 2
as rain 1
2 s colony 3 strain
53
ao colony 4
e383
g
a colony 5
Me 6
omnd strain 2
phylogroup colony 7
ma
Ss
Coc
CP
SE
Gr
o. colony 8 strain 3
inferred most recent ii Pont cekny
common ancestor KE
5000 SNVs rai om
's (MRCA) of strain 5 SNVs
within-person, within-species evolutionary and ecological dynamics
(@) (e) / (8)
selective sweep clonal interference strain replacement stable strain co-existence
/soft sweep
&
og
s&
os
gs
ae}
a
22
time time time time

Figure 1. Subspecies classification and dynamics. (a) Within-species diversity of bacteria can be described as a phylogenetic tree and can be defined at multiple
phylogenetic levels. Here, phylogroup is used to mean groupings of isolates separated by thousands of single nucleotide variants (SNVs) across the whole genome.
(b,c) Within-person, within-species diversity can be described at multiple levels of resolution; the example has three strains of the studied species, two of which are
from the same phylogroup and indicated in different shades of red. (c) Strains are defined here as groups of colonies separated by less than 100 SNVs across the
genome; this cut-off is designed to group colonies that could have diversified on the host from a single cell; the exact cut-off used depends on the molecular clock
rate of that species. (d,e) illustrate two types of subspecies evolutionary dynamics at the substrain level, while (fg) illustrate ecological dynamics at the strain level.

despite years of colonization in a host, during which diversity [24,74].