Various theoretical frameworks have been a generalized framework in various fields, ranging from
proposed, from autopoiesis and enaction [34] to coordination philosophy, psychology and psychiatry to neuroscience,
dynamics [35] and active inference [26]. robotics and artificial intelligence (e.g. [23,52,63-67]; ‘a theory
While autopoiesis is one of the first examples of such multi- of every “thing” that can be distinguished from other
scale frameworks, its attempt to connect biology up to the social “things” in a statistical sense’ as Friston provocatively puts it
level has been limited. Indeed, first-order structural coupling [68]; but also note critiques on the scope of current versions
allows for the emergence of cells, and second-order structural of the framework; [69-71]).
coupling allows for the emergence of multi-cellular organisms; In light of the above-described considerations, active infer-
social interaction between those complex organisms, in turn, ence, we argue, should not be thought of as exclusively lying
can be thought of as a third-order structural coupling [36]. within or being restricted to the individual. For example,
However, the (bio)logical grounding of autopoiesis assumed a social norms, architecture and technology may all be under-
strong solipsism regarding knowledge, and thus the largest stood as a collective effort to optimize predictability via
autopoietic unit has always remained a single agent [37,38]. transforming ourselves and the environment in accordance
In fact, this constitutes a key point of disagreement between with bodily and interpersonal expectations [20,72,73]. Here,
Maturana and Varela, as well as the later developed paradigm bodily expectations could be an adaptive range of certain attri-
of ‘enaction’, which on the one hand, keeps the inspiration from butes of a living human body, such as temperature and
autopoiesis and on the other hand, aims to explore the link pressure, but also psychological states, such as the desire for
between our individual experience and the interaction—and socializing and reproducing, while interpersonal expectations
even co-existence—with others [39]. may include whatever another person or a group of persons
The coordination dynamics framework had relatively could expect from us (cf. social norms). We typically try to
less problems for bridging the micro—macro divide, since it satisfy both bodily and interpersonal expectations, even if
comes from the language of complex systems and nonlinear they, at times, appear contradictory (cf. the various conflicts
dynamics.