Additionally, this step makes it
collective psychophysiology as a most promising methodology also possible to adopt an unsupervised scheme, i.e. learning
to this end. In the next section, we introduce the paradigm directly based on unlabelled information, allowing for a data-
of inter-personalized psychiatry, which will aim at the clinical driven identification of statistically meaningful sub-groups

and scientific assessment, monitoring and treatment of not without relying on a priori categorical assumptions.


collective psychophysiology feature spaces may also turn out that transdiagnostic markers of social Ei

impairments are identified, a fact which might be even more
h f modelling
—' ==

important for treatment than establishing whether someone

S
belongs to a certain diagnostic group. In fact,suchanapproach
may not necessarily be grounded in current diagnostic criteria S

(allowing for classification in line with existing categorical S&S
knowledge), but on the contrary, by following an unsupervised = >

units of analysis dimensionality data-driven approach, inherent biases of diagnostic manuals S

redefinition reduction could potentially be ameliorated (by virtue of potentially ©

unveiling novel transdiagnostic avenues). Here, we draw inspi- =

ration from, but also extend toward an interpersonal 5

autism space hyperspace dimension, the vision of Stephan and Mathys [44]: ‘The hope =

for the future is that the delineation of patient sub-groups = =

machine learning characterized by different disease processes, as indexed by =

mechanistically interpretable models, will allow for principled =

predictions about individual treatment and, eventually, pave = 5!

the way towards a new nosology’. a

Figure 2. Proposed spiral pipeline (from top-left, clockwise to bottom-left): Such a multi-scale account of focusing on real-time social =
(a) hypotheses-specific multi-modal data is acquired within a collective psy- interactions and real-life relationships will be critical, asithas = &
chophysiology framework; (b) computational modelling yields multiple been suggested that social interactions may entail processes iat
parameter spaces; (c) hypotheses-specific spaces are merged into a single fundamentally different than situations of passive social 3
hyperspace; (d) dimensionality reduction yields a multi-level relational fea- observation [76], while psychiatric disorders, thought of as sy
ture space (cf. autism space) including both individual and_ relational disorders of social interaction, might be more prominent or =
factors. (adapted from Bolis [22]). (Online version in colour.) may fully manifest in real-time social interactions and &

real-life relationships [20,59,101,117].