More recent views have shown
that crossmodal matching does not require such abstract com-
parisons, and rest on more local matching rules between
intensities or valence, or are acquired by statistical learning,
a shift to more stable representations than the smells
themselves (see [10] for discussion; [11]).

terms that appear to be general and cover different categories It is fair to note that the dimensions of generality and sen-
of sources also seem to refer to broad contexts and types of situ- sory connections are not meant to be exhaustive, and other
ations or environments: Mouélé ([6 for instance, reports that the criteria can be applied to quantify abstraction (see [12,13]).
odour term ‘Lifugi’ in Waanzi in Gabon ‘is associated with It is possible to consider for instance that the link to
referents such as fish, all reptiles, wet dogs, but also people linguistic labels (e.g. chlorine) constitutes yet another dimen-
who were in contact these substances’. For our present purpose, sion of variation, distinct from the sensory-detachment one.
it is possible to see that a term like ‘fruity’ counts as more Names of invisible chemicals (e.g. smell of chlorine) and of
abstract than ‘citrusy’ on the generality dimension, but it still branded products (e.g. smell of Heinz Ketchup, smell of
refers to perceptual, sensory object-sources. Terms like ‘acrid’ Chanel number 5) depend more closely on linguistic labels
or ‘Lifugi’ are also general in that they cover different smells, and social facts, rather than natural categories that could
coming from different sources, but also show a higher degree be—smell apart—discovered by the senses: a lemon looks
of abstractness along the sensory-connection axis: behavioural and tastes different from a lime, but a cup of transparent
instructions and broad contexts tap onto structural or deep chlorine or Chanel number 5 may look just the same. As
similarities, by contrast with perceptual similarities between, noted by Borghi et al. [14], linguistic and social experience
say, fruits. They therefore qualify as less concrete. tend to play a more important role for abstract concepts
The sensory-to-less-sensory connections also help to deal than they do for concrete ones.