The discriminative step deploys machine
In a nutshell, our conceptual analyses focused on the learning for group classification (e.g. autistic and non-autistic)
importance of studying interpersonal (mis)attunement in and feature selection (i.e. selection of crucial parameters for dis-
social interactions, describing second-person neuroscience and tinguishing between groups). Additionally, this step makes it
collective psychophysiology as a most promising methodology also possible to adopt an unsupervised scheme, i.e. learning
to this end. In the next section, we introduce the paradigm directly based on unlabelled information, allowing for a data-
of inter-personalized psychiatry, which will aim at the clinical driven identification of statistically meaningful sub-groups

and scientific assessment, monitoring and treatment of not without relying on a priori categorical assumptions.


collective psychophysiology feature spaces may also turn out that transdiagnostic markers of social Ei

impairments are identified, a fact which might be even more
h f modelling
—' ==

important for treatment than establishing whether someone

S
belongs to a certain diagnostic group. In fact,suchanapproach
may not necessarily be grounded in current diagnostic criteria S

(allowing for classification in line with existing categorical S&S
knowledge), but on the contrary, by following an unsupervised = >

units of analysis dimensionality data-driven approach, inherent biases of diagnostic manuals S

redefinition reduction could potentially be ameliorated (by virtue of potentially ©

unveiling novel transdiagnostic avenues). Here, we draw inspi- =

ration from, but also extend toward an interpersonal 5

autism space hyperspace dimension, the vision of Stephan and Mathys [44]: ‘The hope =

for the future is that the delineation of patient sub-groups = =

machine learning characterized by different disease processes, as indexed by =

mechanistically interpretable models, will allow for principled =

predictions about individual treatment and, eventually, pave = 5!

the way towards a new nosology’. a

Figure 2.