Indeed, starting
mentally) to explore the other way: the acquisition of offline from motor primitives and learning an internal manifold in
(goal-directed) action control in simpler and less noisy the policy space are two complementary ways for a motor
environmental conditions that do not require predictive con- system to take advantage from its abundance of degrees of
trol strategies may create the representational means to freedom, thereby bypassing the issue of redundancy [92].
generate the sensory predictions endogenously in the A further limitation of the current implementation is that,
format that online action control will be able to exploit in despite the topological alignment of the different modalities
more dynamic environments. This strategy may reduce the in the internal space, their multisensory or multimodal inte-
computational costs of learning to predict directly in the gration play only a minimal role. For instance, while the
raw space of sensations, which is in fact a daunting task [78]. policy of an episode is selected starting from the visual
While a detailed comparison with alternative models of modality (by picking the overlapping point in the common
concept learning is beyond the scope of this contribution space), to simplify learning, this interaction is defined in an
(e.g. [79,80]), it is important to note that most of the leading ad hoc manner at the start of each learning episode. However,
computational approaches are focused on adult human per- direct interaction among the different sensory modalities and
formance, avoid the question of how sensory and motor their mutual influence during online interaction is an impor-
information is encoded, and assume that a meaningful sen- tant extension, which would adapt the model to study, for
sorimotor system is already available (for a review see [81]). instance, fully ‘embodied’ choices in which the processes of
Here, we have taken a step to overcome these limitations. action selection and action specification proceed in parallel
In addition to this psychological plausibility, the main fea- [72,93,94].
tures of our architecture are consistent with key principles of Lastly, another relevant limitation is owing to the determi-
brain organization. First of all, topological organization is nistic selection of the internal representation from which the
ubiquitously implemented in the brains of vertebrates.