There are our model results show that a tie between two women in
two possible explanations for this result. the work network predicts a tie between them in the childcare

First, in societies where reciprocity predicts cooperation network (table 2), even after controlling for relatedness.
in childcare, direct reciprocity seems to provide the best Given that we have controlled for alter and ego sharing a
explanation for cooperation among non-kin (e.g. [22,39]; household, and that women who fish share a household
this is consistent with what [60] and [61] found in other with all named alters but 1, these results tell us specifically
domains of cooperation, as well). Data from the sample of about traders’ cross-domain cooperation, and thus, we
Shodagor women used in this paper reveal that most of the do not observe the same pattern of fishers overlapping
alloparents named by traders and fishers are kin members, cooperative work ties with other women with cooperative
even though traders name more unrelated alloparents (9% childcare ties.
of those named) than fishers (0%). So, if direct reciprocity is This result is consistent with multiple cross-cultural
a mechanism that primarily motivates cooperation among examples showing that women tend to draw on work ties
non-kin, the fact that Shodagor women in this sample for help with childcare when they are unable to do both
simply do not name a lot of non-kin as cooperative childcare tasks simultaneously—either because the work itself cannot
partners shows that it is likely there are not enough partners be done efficiently while caring for children of any age
available with whom women can engage in reciprocal [16,19,34], or because children’s age and mobility level make
childcare relationships. simultaneous care difficult for a period of time [10,13,38]. Second, while some studies have found evidence for the While it is unsurprising that alloparents provide necessary
simultaneous importance of kin selection and direct recipro- help so that women can work, our results as well as cross-cul-
city in patterning alloparental care (e.g. [22]), others suggest tural accounts suggest that women use the relationships they
even more complexity. For example, Hames [9] showed that develop with one another through cooperative economic activi-
Ye’kwana women cooperated over different time scales to ties for a specific purpose, which is to address a problem that
care for children via both reciprocal relationships occurring arises from the incompatibility of those activities with child-
across generations, with cooperation between mothers and care.