Endnotes

‘Note that while the more recent work of Koenderink and collabor-
ators embraces the phenomenological approach, the interpretations
that they have published relevant to the discussion here [12,26]

Instead, it claims that the perception of both spatial attributes relied on concepts from inferentialist cue-integration models.
and higher-order affordances is consciously perceived and Synoptic viewing involves binocular viewing of a single pictorial
that these form part of our perceptual phenomenology. Affor- image through a synopter. A synopter uses lenses and/or prisms

to deliver identical images to both eyes, such that no retinal dispar-
ities are present for the viewed object or scene (see [12,31]).
’Monocular aperture viewing involves viewing a single picture with

dances, as described in Gibson [9], can then be seen as
essentially higher-order emergent perceptual attributes deriv-

ing from the fact that the fundamental spatial entities and one eye though a small reduction aperture such that the edges of the
attributes in perception (surfaces, distance, size, shape and picture are obscured (see [32]).
layout) are themselves encoded in terms of proprioceptive/ 4K oenderink and collaborators [12] have provided data from two ober-

vers (the authors) showing that perceived depth relief of objects is
shallower under binocular compared with synoptic viewing of pictorial
images. However, our own recent tests of naive observers using similar

idiothetic variables, where the latter underlie the specific
sorts of phenomenology that we experience for various percep-

tual entities and attributes (e.g. where objects seem tangible methods (gauge figure task) reveals no difference in perceived magni-
and depth separations appear ‘real’ (stereopsis), where dis- tude of depth between monocular aperture and binocular viewing.
tance provides an anticipatory impression of required “But not the sensorimotor account of O’Regan & Noé [52] where per-

ception is viewed as a set of sensory-motor contingencies operating
an objective external structure, where the organism ‘acts out’ its per-
ceptions (see [53] for a critique).

locomotion, or where a surface anticipates the tactile sen-
sation). In other words, the sensorimotor anticipatory aspect

is constituted within the microstructure of perceived spatial °For readers unfamiliar with the details of the historical develop-
entities and variables. ments in colour perception, an excellent lay introduction can be
Uncovering and modelling the embodied and anticipat- found in chapter 8 of Hubel’s introductory text on vision [55].

ory structure of the basic attributes of space will no doubt 7Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM).