If a leaf
(eg Ailanthus glandulosa) be injected with water containing carbon dioxide, and
| be then placed in the sun, still under water, the water is rapidly driven out of the leaf,
owing to the formation by assimilation of more oxygen than the water in the inter-
| cellular spaces can dissolve. If the leaf is kept in the dark it remains injected for
_. days, and so also if it is injected with water carefully freed from CO, and then exposed
Sto the sun.
_ Some of the errors into which BousstncAvur and other writers on this subject have
fallen, have been due to the use of too concentrated CO,, which can at that tension
£ diffuse through cuticle in sufficient quantity to give apparently normal phenomena.
g With approximately normal strengths of CO, no appreciable diffusion takes place.
3 I hope, shortly, to examine whether on parts devoid of stomata, gaseous exchange,
especially in assimilation, is as vigorous as it seems generally held to be. To sum up briefly my general results :
& (1.) Under normal conditions, practically the sole pathway for CO, into or out of
the leaf is by the stomata.

(2.) In young leaves the cuticle seems to be no more permeable to CO, than in
-2 mature leaves.

@  (3.) If the stomata be mechanically blocked an appreciable osmosis of CO, may
@ take place through the cuticle provided that the tension of the CO, be great enough.

= (4.) The normal amount of CO, in the atmosphere is not sufficient to produce any
& appreciable osmosis into a leaf with its stomata blocked; assimilation therefore
cannot continue under these conditions.

g  (5.) The experimental optimum of CO, for assimilation depends on the structural
3 porosity of the leaf, so that if this be reduced by blocking the stomata, even pure CO,
@ May not quite effect optimal assimilation.

¢ (6.) To this, and not to the stomata being inoperative in gaseous exchange (which
& was Bousstncavuur's view), is due the fact that in concentrated CO, a leaf with its
stomata open assimilates less than one with the stomata blocked.

(7.) In bright light a fully green leaf assimilates all the CO, that it is forming
by respiration and none escapes from it. GARREAU’s demonstration to the contrary
is only an expression of the imperfection of the conditions under which it was
performed. Finally I should like to express my thanks to Deputy-Professor Darwin and other
colleagues for putting my time as far as possible at my own disposal for the
Prosecution of this somewhat laborious research and for much other encouragement.



558 MR.