The external optimal number would then be a combined expression |
this constant and a variable, which would depend on the structure of the leaf


ASSIMILATION AND RESPIRATION. 549

tion, and would be large for those leaves which, by reason either of the smallness or

scarcity of their stomata, the narrowness of their intercellular spaces or the thick-

‘ness of the leaf offered considerable resistance to the diffusion of carbon dioxide.

f How variable the size and numbers of stomata may be, the more recent paper of

| Weiss (39) plentifully exhibits, and UNncEr (45) has shown that the volume of the
intercellular spaces in leaves may vary from 3 per cent. to 71 per cent. of the total
volume of the leaf. Whether all this variation really does produce a marked effect
on the penetrability of leaves we cannot yet say.

| In the vaselined leaves under consideration with their stomata blocked, carbon

Q dioxide might reach the intercellular spaces round the assimilating cells by two

% possible paths, by diffusion through the cuticle and epidermis cells, or through the

film of vaseline blocking the mouths of the stomata. Experiment XXXIV. shows that only one-seventh as much CO, reaches the
& assimilating cells by the conjoint action of these paths as passes by the open stomata,
S and in a future section (VI.) I hope to give some facts tending to show what share
fi each path takes. Bi Having thus fully cleared up the experiments of Bousstncavtr’s first class, which
ep deal with the localization of gaseous exchange, we may turn to those of the second
‘e class, which really deal chiefly with the localization of the action of light on the leaf.
= Two expedients were adopted by Bousstncautr to effect, for the purposes of com-
3s parison, an isolation of the action of light on either surface of the leaf.
‘2 ‘For one, a strip of opaque black paper was fixed by a very thin layer of starch
2 paste to that surface of the leaf which he wished to remove from the action of light.
sa For the second, the two similar surfaces of a pair of leaves are fixed together, also
£ by starch paste. If the two upper faces are joined together, it is assumed that the
. two lower only are exposed to the action of light, and vice versd.
a Tn all cases the leaves to be compared were exposed at the same time to light in
6 separate vessels, containing known mixtures of air and CO,, and the amount of CO,
decomposed in a given time determined.
so) A control leaf, with neither of its surfaces covered with black paper, is employed
E at the same time, and is said to have both its surfaces exposed to light.