Simulations are shown for the biological scenario given in electronic supplementary material, appendix
A.1 (parameters used: v = 0.0005, 4 = 0.8, f = 2, B; = 2, B, = —2, B; = 0, and with mutations occurring with probability 0.01 in offspring and whose effects on
the trait have mean 0 and standard deviation 0.02). Each grey dot is the trait expressed by an individual (we randomly sampled 25 individuals every 1000 gen-
erations), thick black line is the population average, and thin black line is the convergence stable and uninvadable strategy z*. (6) Evolution under disruptive
selection and the emergence of polymorphism (same model as in (a) with B, = 1.35, By = 0.5 and B; = 1). The population first converges to z* under directional
selection (shaded region) and then becomes dimorphic owing to disruptive selection. (Online version in colour.)

(c) All is well in a well-mixed and homogeneous world to the expression of genetic traits that maximize the reproduc-
One fundamental aspect of s(z) and h(z) to keep in mind is that tive success of its bearer (in the absence of genetic conflicts).
they are defined from a mutant’s invasion fitness (equation In fact, if individual fitness increases with a single inter-
(2.3), which is a measure of reproductive success at the level mediate quantity, such as fecundity, or in the context
of the gene or the replicator that causes the expression of the of evolutionary games—material payoff resulting from
mutant phenotype. On conceptual and empirical grounds, it social interactions—then any z* that maximizes payoff also
is however often desirable to understand selection at the level maximizes individual fitness, having

of the individual. In populations that are homogeneous and

Ow(Zm, Z) Om(Zm, Z)
well mixed (i.e. where variation in reproductive success is s(Z) Oz, o Oz
only associated with variation at the locus underlying the evol- mh em=e memes (2.8)
ving trait and where individuals interact and compete at and h(z) Pw(Zms 2) ce T(Zm, 2)
random such that a rare mutant only ever interacts with resi- OZm?