Results show that the mouth region (and there-
theory of how a cognitive function emerges from neural archi- fore the smile) is crucial for categorizing happy expressions,
tectures. DNNs have made strides in elucidating principles of and the eye area is most useful to recognize sadness [123].
development and organization in the primary (geniculo- These computations arguably reflect internal representational
striate) cortical visual system, more specifically in the ventral transformations instantiated by the DNN that progressively
stream [48,51]. However, a circuit-level DNN model that repro- defines which features are more relevant to perform the task.
duces the architecture and neurobiological constraints of the Clearly, the fact that our model of the retino-collicular
retino-collicular system has never, to our knowledge, been system seems capable of expression discrimination and pre-
devised yet. dicts several patterns of human and primate behaviours
The present study marks a first step towards the investi- does not mean that other brain areas are not crucial for
gation with artificial neural networks of salient facial emotional processing, or that the final encoding is not the
features based on expression perception carried out uniquely by-product of complex interaction at the system level [129].
by the retino-collicular system. When the field of inquiry is in The key issue is that the retino-collicular system can actively
its infancy, and the understanding of a biological phenom- instantiate early emotional evaluation and pass it on to these
enon is limited, as in the present case, the equivalence other brain structures, contrary to the prevailing view [16].
between DDNs and biological brains can be profitably under- Our circuit-level model of the retino-collicular system can
stood mainly in the context of the behavioural outcomes they be used to delve more deeply into understanding the devel-
produce. Noteworthy, several similarities to human behav- opment and organization of early visual processing for
iour and primate neurophysiology emerged spontaneously facial expressions and other stimulus categories.