The contribution by Kaucka [15] is a survey served or novel function selected for at a level different =
of the craniofacial development regulation and plasticity, from the immediate identity of the bony elements 3
exploring genetic patterning during the development of themselves. =
the cranial diversity across mammalian species. The review — Even functionally relevant overall skull shape may inform =
paper by Kyomen et al. [16] focuses on the molecular control phylogeny better than slow-evolving regions such as =
of the processes of evolutionary heterochrony, heterotopy and basicrania; discrete character and shape characters may = =
heterometry in mammalian skull, guiding the reader through reflect different hierarchical levels and timescales of ~
the intricacies of the shape variability and cranial adaptive macroevolution. =
modifications in mammals. — Glires, representing the majority of mammals, show that a =

decoupled incisor versus molar partition led to two funda- 5
mentally different biomechanical configurations in the = >

. . mandible. Such a bi-modal dental functional morphology =
4, Structure, function and their contex eventually split into lagomorph and rodent morphotypes. o
The bones of the mammalian skull form both an integrated The fact that stem Glires already exhibit biomechanical S
biomechanical system and a puzzle of elements of varied profiles reminiscent of their extant counterparts suggests,
phylogenetic and developmental origins, many shared with that the biomechanical canalization of rodents and = S
other vertebrates. However, mammal skulls exhibit reduced lagomorphs into different generalized jaw mechanics blue- Ss
cranial kinesis relative to other vertebrates, but conserved prints may have had an overarching and yet seldom ~
pharyngeal arch-derived growth centres intimately link the studied influence on their dramatic differences in diversity.
evolutionary developmental origins of the skull’s constitu- — Across the placental skull, evolutionary rate, but not
ents to their gnathostome ancestors. This duality has disparity, correlates with developmental modules.
sparked a rich body of scientific inquiry into the structure Evolutionary rates are also associated with dietary and
and function of the namesake structure of this theme issue. locomotor groups, but operating on a more general
On the topic of mammalian skulls structure and function, level that does not show consistent element-ecology
this theme issue has a collection of five contributions that associations.