Overwintering

ation of schistosomiasis and epitomizes the necessity for a of the Corsica hybrid schistosome strain within the local

holistic One Health approach. snail host has been recently demonstrated, providing a

potential explanation of local persistence in this newly estab-
lished focus [78]. Previous single-species infection studies in

(b) Hybridization between Schistosoma species baboons produced S. mattheei eggs but no S. bovis eggs [79]
Concerns about Schistosoma hybridization were initially nor S. curassoni eggs [80], suggesting the latter two livestock-
raised by phenotypic observations of unusual egg and specific schistosomes may require heterospecific mixing to pro-
worm morphologies deemed to present intermediate duce viable offspring in humans [47]. However, recent
characteristics of different species [21,39,46,47], as well as evidence of ‘pure’ S. bovis viable human infection in Nigeria
changes in cercarial emergence and shedding patterns [48]. [71] has proven that this species can in fact develop fully as a
Subsequently, enzymatic studies [39,49-51], and crucially, single species in people. Furthermore, contrary to prevailing
molecular techniques, have uncovered strong evidence of thought on the epidemiology of hybridizations between
the interspecific hybridization of schistosomes [28,39,52-55]. livestock- and human-associated S. haematobium clade
Interbreeding between different species can result in schistosomes, recent studies carried out in West Africa have
the creation of hybrid offspring (hybridization) or, if demonstrated that human infection by S. bovis hybrids is
backcrossing of an interspecific hybrid with a parent common (table 1).
species occurs, in the introduction of single chromosomal Genome-wide restriction-site-associated DNA sequencing
regions or genes from one species to the other (introgressive (RADseq) has shown an increased fitness and viability (so-
hybridization, also known as introgression) [33,56,57]. Such called hybrid vigour) of S. haematobium clade hybrids,
processes can drive genetic variation, with the potential to which may at least partially explain the change in endemic
alter the morbidity, host range, and drug susceptibility of landscape over a period of 25 years from predominantly
parasites [33,53,57]. intestinal (caused by S. guineensis) to urogenital human
Phylogenetically close schistosome species with over- cases in sympatric regions of Central Africa [55].