A quanti-
tative study of purple martin paternity distribution would, of course,
require a model incorporating more biological detail about the
species and its ecology. Doing so would reduce her expected fitness, as it might reduce the
care of her young provided by Alpha and there might be genetic dis-
advantages as well.

‘The Gini coefficient is one-half the mean difference in fitness
between all unique pairs in the population relative to the mean fit-
ness, which in this case reduces to 5/16 divided by 7/16, or 5/7=
0.71. On what the Gini coefficient measures, see [37].

°The strategy adopted by Beta is his best response function, not any
particular level of f, which depends on Alpha’s strategy (choice of c).
‘The existence of this so-called Pareto-superior alternative allocation
is guaranteed by the fact that from the first-order conditions respect-
ively for Beta’s choice of f and Alpha’s choice of c we know that both
w, =0 and we = 0, so there must be some small increases both in f

(conferring benefits on Alpha) and in c (conferring benefits on
Beta) that would simultaneously increase the fitness of both.

"A constraint is said to be binding when it affects the behaviour of
the actor. When the incentive compatibility constraint is binding,
Alpha maximizes his fitness by offering a level of copulations to
Beta that provides a fitness rent, and hence is more than sufficient
to attract him and his mate to the site (so the participation constraint
is not binding, that is to say it is redundant in the sense that altering it
by a small amount would not affect the actors’ behaviours).
"Kokko notes that cases of this type are ‘particularly readily observa-
ble when males participate in a zero-sum game’ [38]. Our model
provides a transparent case where the same result occurs in a non-
zero-sum setting.

'SAs far as we are aware it was Bishop & Cannings and Maynard
Smith (respectively), who first pointed out that ‘the energy expended
in the conflicts ...exactly balances the energy obtained from the
rewards’ and that the bargaining [42, p. 112] strategy that is ‘the ESS
is not that which would be favoured by group selection’ [9, p. 215].