The main motiv- choice, and this mapping (or an approximation thereof)
ation to accumulate evidence in the first place is to average could be learned and used to assign a degree of confidence
out the noise, but this works best when the samples are inde- [73,74].
pendent [55] or at most weakly correlated. The degree to Interestingly, these two frameworks offer distinct interpret-
which self-motion fits the bill is unclear, given that the rel- ations for the empirical relationship between confidence and
evant signals have a high degree of autocorrelation (being stimulus strength [74,75]: confidence increases with stimulus
tied to inertial motion, not an arbitrary pattern of inputs), strength on correct trials, but often (though not always)
and unique noise properties [56-58] whose implications for decreases with stimulus strength on error trials. SDT attributes
decision-making have not been fully explored. this to the fact that an observation leading to an error must

Thus far the available evidence [32,45] (and see following be closer to the criterion when d’ is large, whereas in accumu-
section) is consistent with bounded accumulation, but it is lator models it can be explained by continued accumulation of
still worth considering alternatives, such as taking a single contradictory evidence after an initial choice is made [74,76].
‘snapshot’ of evidence [38] at the predicted time of maximum This discrepancy further underscores the relevance of time as
information content (i.e. the peak of the velocity or accelera- a factor in decision-making, and especially confidence;
tion profile [18]). At the other extreme, one might envision indeed, failing to consider the time dimension can lead to
a continuous process best explained using elements of control misinterpretation of common measures of metacognitive
theory [59,60], although the relationship between evidence performance [77].
and decision termination is less clear in such a framework. The study of confidence in perception has typically con-

Previous work has shown that adjudicating candidate decision sidered situations in which the relevant sensory evidence


L
<— ‘100% certain’ —»
«— gl !