The duration of excitation
was always very brief, not exceeding one second, and attention was given to the
minimal response, The value of the: method may be estimated by a consideration of
the following facts, On stimulating the surface of the spinal cord, as already men-
tioned, movement was always elicited in the leg on the side stimulated, when the
electrode was applied to the surface of the posterior column, but never, as far as I
was able to see, could movement be obtained by the application of this strength or
even considerably greater strength of stimulus to the lateral or anterior columns
when adequate precautions were taken to prevent the direct spread of the current to
the neighbouring root fibres. It was easy enough to produce movement on stimu-
lating the surface of the anterior columns if the motor fibres, which run almost
vertically for several segments of the outer surface of the cord in this region, were not
eliminated, but when all precautions were carefully taken, I could not convince
myself that movernent resulted from application of a current to the surface ‘of the
anterior or lateral columns, whereas that elicited from stimulating the posterior
columns was always marked and quite definite, and merely depended in intensity
upon the conditions ‘stated below. ‘For instance, applying the electrodes to the
surface of the postero-external column in the 5th lumbar segment of ‘the dog on the
left side produced lateral flexion of the spinal colunm of the same side, flexion and
adduction of the hip, flexion of the knee and toes, and movement in the tail (flexion


OF MOVEMENTS IN THE MAMMALIAN SPINAL CORD. 195

to the same side). But of the facts observed the chief was the very local effect
which would be obtained by varying the point stimulated. Thus stimulation of a point
1 millim. centrally or laterally of a given point often produced an entirely different
resulting movement, or no response at all, which fact is clearly of much importance in
showing that with the above strength of current the restriction of the stimulus to
one point must be sufficiently well obtained.

2. Mechanical.

_ As a means of controlling the observations derived from electrical excitation,
mechanical stimulation was sometimes employed in examining the nerve roots, and
was evoked by pinching the tissues with fine forceps.