But before referring
to the skeletal attachments of the anterior chamber we may, with advantage, briefly
describe the general arrangement of the principal sheets of fibres that form the walls
of the air-bladder. Omitting the peritoneal investment on its ventral surface, and
its superticial cout, the walls of the air-bladder are composed, as in all other Teleostei,
of two principal layers of fibres, yiz, :—the tunics, interna and the tunica externa,
The former consists of an extremely thin fibrous layer, supporting on its inner surface
an epithelinm of flattened cells, and farnishes a complete and continuous inven lining
to tlie various primary aid secondary cavities of the air-bladder, of uniform structure
and thickness throughout, In specimens that have bean preserved for any length of
fime fu: spirit, or haye undergone maceration for # shorter period, the tunica interna
readily separates from the tuniea externa. In all the figures of the interior of the
nir-bladder which illustrate this paper the tunica interna has been removed so as fo
ahow the disposition and skeletal attachments of the fibres composing the outer tunic,
After the removal of the inmer tunic, and tle exposure of the tunica externa, the free
edge of the oblique ventral ridge of dripus, and the ventral sutiices of the heel-like
process and of the posterior portion of the crescentic procéss of thnb ossicle, are
clearly distinguishable ow cach side of the air-bladder, imbedded in the dorsal wall of
the anterior chamber ear its anterior extremity and » little to the onter side of the
complex centrum (figs. 18 to 20). ‘The tunica externa is always much thicker and
consequently more rigid than the tunica interna; it is, in fact, entirely owing to the
thickness and strength of the former coat, combined with its more or less exterisive


,

ON THE ANATOMY OF FISHTS. : 93

attachments to the skeleton, that tho nir-bladdor never collapses,even after its walls have
been pertinated,or portions removed, but invariably retains its normal shape and outline. The tunies externa consists of iwa poincipal strata of fibres, an outer in which the
gener! (ipeotion of the fibres is in the main longitudinal without being constant fox
all parts of their couse; and an inner stratum coniposed of fibres with a general
tendency to a fransverse avrangement. The fibres composing either stratwm,
although they may vary their course and direction in different portions of the air
bladder, from longitudinal becoming oblique or nearly transverse, aud vive versd, and
= may describe various curves, very rarely coincide in direction at any one point, the
& fibres of one stratum crossing those of the other. at more or less of a right angle.
8 This characteristic arrangement is always fairly obvious in the anterior, lateral, anid
© dorsal walls of the anterior chatuber, and in the dorsal and lateral walls of the lateral
& compartments, where the two strata can be readily separated and the component
S fibres traced, but becomes more obscure in the ventral wall; there the fibres of the
6 outer stratum porsue a somewhat irregular course and betray a tendency to interlace
© with one another, so as to be ouly traceable with sume difficulty.