C. TADDON

anterior wall has much the same yale both in Arius and Platystome, aud in cach
nike is wholly or partially n portion of the tunica externa; and further, that the
transyerse membrane as a separable and distinct structure is entirely wanting in
Platystoma—w fact which may possibly be associated with the extensive insertion of
the great compressor museles’ into the walls of the bladder. We lave elsewhere, in
our description of Mecrores, given reasons for beheving that even the tmneverse
membraue is mevely a special portion of the superficial coat of the air-bladder, whieh,
for physiological purposes, has acquired certain fixed skeletal attachments, and with a
similar olject itis readily conceiyable that, in addition, even w stratum of fibres
belonging to the tunica externa of the anterior wall my <lso acquire a similar von-
nection with rigid portions of the axial skeleton, such, in fact, as we have shown to
be the case in Arius and in Platystoma, and other normal Pimelodine,

On the whole the Weberian ossicles in Arius pidaide ave very similar to those of
Platystoma, The anterior process of the tripis (fig. 49, ta.) is somewhat. shorter
and of greater width than in most other Silnroids. The eresceutic process (.c.) is
rather thicker than usual, apparently in accordance with the greater thickness of the
stratum of fibres attached to it, but on the ventral surface of its root the thickening
abruptly ceases, leaving at thab point a alight ridge, which, like the ventral ridge in
Maerones, veeesives the insertion of «. slip of fibres derived from the median portion of
the anterior wall of the bladder, The crescentie process has no heel-like projection
as in Macrones, nov is its posterior margin deeply grooved as in Platystomé, Claustra
are present in the form of elongated spicular ossicles, slizhtly curved at their interior
extremities, and situated one on each side of the foramen inagnum in contact with
the posterior margins of the exoccipitals. The more important characteristics of the Arioil type us exemplified by Arius
pidada may be simorarized as follows -—

(«.) The exceptionally firm anchylosis of the skull wiih certain of the anterior
vertebrm, through the fusion of the greatly developed accessory articular processes of
the basioevipital and complex centrum to form a stont subvertebral process, and the
sutural union of the transyerse processes of the fourth vertebra with the supra-
occipital by the extension of a pair of strong osseous leaning between the twe
structures.

(b.) The more extensive development of the supeiticial ossifieations and their
ventral and lateral extension to form complete Lony canals for the dorsal aorta and
the posterior cardinal veins,

(c.) The absence of post-temporal plates aud the exclusion of the post-temporal
bones from contact with the air-bladder, the modified transverse processes of the
fourth vertebra, and the subvertebral process alone forming an effective bony
support for its anterior wall,

(d.) The absence of compressor and tensor tripodis museles, wil of any tenduney to


ON THE ANATOMY OF PISITKS- 137

the development of antero-lateral or other cxeal appendages fi connection with the
ahr-bladder.

(e.) The more extensive attachment af the lateral portions of the tunica externa of
the anterior wall of the bladder to the skeleton by the separation of their thick outer
strata from the inner, and the dorsal insertion of the former into the transverse
provesses of the fourth vertebra.

(/) The existence of a distinct transverse membrane in addition to the skeletally
atiahed outer stratum of the proper anterior wall of the bladder.

= (g.) The concentration of the inner stratum of longitudinal fibres in the median
& portion of the ventral wall of the anterior chamber into two stout, inwardly pro-
8 jecting parallel ridges, and their extension into the anterior and posterior walls to the
5 skeletal attachments of the anterior and posterior pillars respectively,

Q (h.) The failure of the fibres of the inner stratum of the tunica externa in the
Ss 3 antero-lateral and Jateral walls of the anterior chamber to reach their usual insertions
ic into the erescentic processes of the tripodes.

a (i.) The suppression of the ascending and horizontal processes of the intercalarium
Sand the reduction of that ossicle to a small nodule of bone imbedded in the inter-
= ossicular ligament.