The ventral surface of euch suc is mvested by a thin but tough fibrous
membrane, which stretches between aud is firmly attached to the decurved anterior
and posterior maryins of the modified transverse process, snc qyorld seem also to
extend from one sac to the other aeross the ventral surtice of the complex centrum. The distal openings of the bony recesses are closed by their respective Jateral
cutaneous areas, but the outer wall o£ each sir-sac is separated frou the labter by a
certain quuntily of fatty tissue, as well as by a portion of the lateral lobe of the liver,
As in other Siluridw, the walls of the atr-bladder are firmly attached to the contignous
skeletal elements at certain points, The posterior wall of wach nies blonds with the
investing fibrous membrane, which we aust. identity as tha vente! portion of the
snperticial coat of the wi-Dladder, and the two are dorsally altwled bo the anterior
targin ol the transyerse process of the fifth yertebra, and ulso io the posterior

portion of the dorsal vide we the utter passes on fio the side of the complex centrum,

mueb in the sawe way that the lateral portions of the posterioy wall (Le, the primary

teansverse seplum) of a nora! anterior chamber are inserted into the dorsal lamina
* Tu fig, AY only the inferior litah is represented, the rewaindor of ihe honw baying been removed. ON THE ANATOMY OF PLSELMS. 1A7

—a fact whieh snpports our suggestion that this ridge is in part the equivalent of the
dorsal lamina in other Siluridw. In a. precisely similar manner the anterior wall is
firmly adherent to the deenryed anterior margin of the transverse process of the
fonrth vertebsa. The inner wall of the air-sac is also attached to the dorsal ridge,
where the latter imversos the side of the complex centrum, The only other point
at whicel) each ait-sac is attached to a ricid portion of the skeleton is sliout the centre
of its ventral avall, where the latter blends with its investing superficial coat, and
hotl hecome firraly attached to the triangnlar outgrowth from the ventral ridwe.