The ventral
surface of the root of the crescentic process is traversed by a faint oblique ridge (0.7) ;
the outer margin is extremely thin, and fits intoa slit-like groove at the junetion of the
oval plate with the flexible root of the “elastic spring” apparatus (fig. 59, trv.) ; the
liner margin, on the contrary, is curled inwards on itself, so as to fora a thickened rim
on the ventral surface, and, moreover, is somewhat longer than the onter oiargio (fig.
62). As previously mentioned, the ventral ridge of the tripus receives the insertion
of a slip of fibres derived from the median portion of the anterior wall of the bladder;
the thickened inner rim of the crescentic process receives on its inner edge the
insertion of the radial fibres from the radial nodule; while the outer margin of the

* Simensen’s conclusions (37) with regard to Doras ind Synoilontix, vis, phat the oval plates of the
‘olustie-springe” apparatus Owe their formation to the ossification of “la plivre" (= tho iransverse
membrane) aud the tunica externa of the bladder itself, may be oxtendod also to tuchewiplerns, The
relations of the transverse membrane to tle terminal plates fa thie @anue, and the @xtnime tenmty of
the walls sf tha bladdor where the plates are applied to then, aro quite in harmony with thin suggection,


ON THE ANATOMY OF FISHES, 161

rin has attached to it from before backwards, first, the dorsal edges of the fibres
derived from tie corresponding anterolateral wall of the anterior chamber and
tmyersing one of the thin oyal areas, and, secondly, the fibres primarily dertyed frova
the remaining portion of the lateral wall, as well as those converging from the
outer wall of the lateral compartment of the same side. The thin outer rim of
the ereseantic process does not recaive the insertion of any of these fibres, as the
latter simply cross its ventral surface on their way to the thickened imner rim,
which is consequently the only portion of the trips that can be seen imbedded in
the dorsal wall of the bladder after the removal of the tunica internw (fig. 69,
Aire.) The unusual length of the crescentic process seems to be associated with
“the relatively large size of the anterior chamber, and also with the fact that
28 the process not only receives the insertion of the fibres derived from the antero-
2 Jateral and lateral walls of the anterior chamber, but also from the outer wall of
Athe contiguous lateral compartment, The absence of any marked curvature in
S the process may also have conditioned its somewhat exceptional length. At the
5 S junction of its anterior and crescentic processes a thin, flexible, and highly elastic,
Perlangular lamina of bone is given off from the dorsal surface of the tripus and
Sat right angles to it (fig. 63, tr.ar.), The surfaces of the lamina look almost directly
@ backwards and forwards respectively, and the inner margin, from its junction with
3 the body of the tripus to the pointed dorsal extemity of the lumina, is confluent with
5 the neural areh of the complex yertebra along a line which is slightly oblique from
8 3 below upwards and forwards. This lamina undoubtedly represents the articular process
@ of other Siluroids, from which, however, it differs in beme directly continuous with the
g 2 neural arch instead of articulating with the lateral surface of the centrum at the bottom
3 ofa deep pit-like socket.