HADDON

The air-bladder itself has thin walls, and consists of an unterior and somewhat
rounded portion, which includes the anterior and two lateral campartments, and in
addition also, a posterior much flattened, leaflike cmcam connected with the
foregoing by a short tubular stalk, The cavities of both the lateral compartuienta
and the posterior cecal appendage are largely occupied hy a trabecular network of
branching columns of fibres, but the outer portions of the former are comparatively
free from such bundles, and communicate in front with the anterior chamber, As in
P. djambal this network seems to owe its formation to the partial resolution of w
series of secondary transverse septa into branching bundles of fibves, The wall of
the anterior chamber is not specially thin where the oval plates of the “elastin
spring” mechanism are applied to it, and it may therefore be inferred that, as in
Malapterurus, according to Séreysen, the plates result from the ossification of the
transverse membrane alone, the tuniea externa having no share whatever in their
formation,

Pangasiys micronemd. In a specimen from Dr, BueeKnr’s collection labelled J”, mierenema, and agreeing
in every particular with the description of this species in the British Museum
Catalogue of Fishes (vol. 5, p. 63), we noticed one or two features in which it
presented a striking contrast to all other species of the same genus that bad come
under our notice,

Each of the transverse processes of the fourth vertebra (fig. 96) has a broad
flat root, which ia prolonged distally into distinet anterior (t.p.'u.) and posterior
(t.p."p.) divisions, separated from each other by a broad but comparatively shallow
cleft, The anterior division (t.p.w.) is thick and inflexible, tapering somewhat
towards its decurved distal extremity, but is without a trace of the oval plate so
characteristic of other species of Pangasivs; on the contrary, and as in most other
Silurida: not proyided with an “clastic-spring’ mechanism, the distal portion of
the process is applied to, and firmly supports the onter extremity of the inferior
limb of the post-temporal (pt.%.), and also the immer of the twa processes into which
the cleft stem of that bone (pt.s,) divides in forming the socket for the claviele
(c.!). Hence, in this species, the tranéverse process of the fourth yertebra is not
yooditied to form an “elastic-sprmg” apparatus, but both in shape and in the support
which it affords to the post-temporal and pectoral girdle, elusely conforms to ita
normal condition in the great majority of the Siluride; and in harmony with this
modification, is the fact that the inferior limb of the post-temporal js relatively
slender, oy at all events is nothing like so massive us in other species of
Pangasins

The aiv-bladder is broadly ovate in shape but rendered slightly bilobed in front
through the existence of a deep median notel in ite anterior wall, Relatively to the
lateral compartments the anterior chamber is very small, and there is no posterior


-

weal appendage. ‘The walls of the bladder are extremely thin. The primary
drmnsyerse septum is so obliquely placed that, while its lateral portions ure vertical
and divectly-continnonus with the ventral wall of the bladder, the median part is
jnelined downwards and forwards, and does not finally blend with the ventral wall
until it almost reaches the inferior margin of the anterior wall. Through the
obliquity of the septum, the lateral compartments and the longitudinal septum
separating them are prolonged beneath the median portion of the anterior chamber
newrly as far forwards us the anterior wall of the latter.