A further
resetublance to the latter is also shown by the enclosure of the two saeeuli within
bony recesses forme hy the basioccipital and hy horizontal plates derived from the
exoceipitals, the partial rooting in by bone of the cavum sinus imparis, and the
presence of intercalarin, and claustra. The complete separation of the two nir-saes,
the atrophy of the ductus preumaticus, and ihe possible suppressian of the sinus
endolymphatious, may also be paralleled by similar relrogressive modifications in
such otherwise Jess abnormul genera as Bagerius, Glyptosternum, &e, The ode
of formation of the osseous capsules for the airsacs is almost identical with the
means employed for the same object.in the Loricaroid gener, On the contrary, in


ON THK ANATOMY OV FISIlUs. 259

the remarkelile structural modifications invelved in the forward dislocation of tle

anterior vertebrae and the associated portions of the Weheriun mechanism into the
cranial cavity, wd in the combination of » partially ossitied air-hladder with external
osseotts capsules, Wypophthahwus is mnique anong all S. abnormales which lave se
far buen deseribed, aud represents the extreme of a series of modifications of which
Toricarix wod its allies exhibit the initial stages.”

Tom the facts above-mentioned it may he voveluded: (1) That the Hyposton-
line and Hypophthalmime exlibil the most extreme modifications which the air
Walder, Weberian mechanism and the correlated skeletal elements undergo in the

ASiliride. (2) That, the modifications in question haye to some extent taken place
“in the same direction, so that the two groups possess certain features in common, aud,
Snotably, the firm sutural union, or even partial anchylosis of the anterior vertebra:
ariel the skull, and also, with one exception (cleduthievs), in the wode in which the
Husseous capsules for the air-bladder are formed; in the partial or complete atrophy
Sot the bony roof of the cayum sinus imparis; and in certain other features which
She two groups share with the less aberrant Siluride abnormales. (3) That the
Basceptional features so characteristic of certain gener, yid., the formation of complete
Bony capsules for the air-bladder by the actual ossification of its own walls in
Gadeonthicus, and the peculiar relation of both to the first pair of mbs; and the singular
Blislocation of the anterior vertebrax in ypophthuliuus, ave sulficieut to prove that
Brery striking variations may occur within the limits of the two groups.
‘3 A careful investigation of the remaining genera of the Hypostomatine may bring
en light other forms, some of which may prove to be eyen more, and others less,
Siberrant than those alread 'y known.
$ We have had no opportunity of dissecting the Indian genera, Sisor, Zcostome, and
EP sendechencis, which are the only Hypostomating that ave not restricted to South
gAmesice, Some doubt has been thrown om the correctness af their presumed velation-
Sship to this group, but the mode of formation of the oaseous capsules for the air-
Bhladder, and the extent of coalescence among the anterior vertebre, should furnish
oo evidence on this point. TL is unfortunate, therefore, that the only eyidence
Zavailable through Day's descriptions is confined to the bare fact that the air-bladder
Bconsists of two lateral sacs enclosed within bony capsules, no information being
given about the special features so necessary for comparison with undoubted
Hypostomatines,

The singular aix-bladder of Agenioxna militeris (MULEER, lor, cit.) hears a remark

able resetublines to that of such Cyprinidie as Cobitis and Bora. Not only ix the

* As Rawess Wrrene (44) points out, Hypophiliimus ogoupies a somewhat isolpvuil position amonge
Sduyoids. Gilsvoxe (16) forms for the genus a clistinct sob-family, Gove (7) xegards tho genus 46
the (ype of one of the three families inta which he divides the Nematoguuthi (= Siluridw); and,
finwlly, Giiu (18) resseves for it one of his elevew humilion of Nemutoynathi,

2h2


260 PROFESSORS T, W.