W. BRIDGE AND A. 0, HADDON

sieenli. A similar fonction may possibly be assigned to the receptaculum dorsale
described by ws in Macrones nemnrus.*

No differential action of the tivo sacculi can possibly take place, at all events so fay
as impulses received through the Weberian mechanism are concerned, since the only
channel! through which any movement initiated in the fluids of the atrial cavities by
the motion of the Weberian ossicles can reach them is the median and unpaired sinus
endelymphatieus ; bence it must follow that each succulus will be affected by any
such disturbances to an equal extent and at the same moment,

Tt may be well to emphasize the fact that, whatever may be the force whieh sets
the Weberjan ossicles ti motion, there are no obvious adaptations for increasing its.
intensity in the couree of transmission to the sensory epithelium of the inner ear, and
if, as we believe will prove to be the case, it is the variations in the volume of the gas
contained in the air-bladder under the influence of different hydrostatic pressures,
which condition the lateral expansion or contraction of the anterior chamber, it is
obyious that the foree exerted on the Weberian ossicles will be too considerable for
there to be any use of increased leverage in order to nuginent. the impulse imparted
to the fivids of the internal ear. We shall again refer to this point in discussing
Weesnr's auditory theory of the fiction of these ossicles. On the whole, and apart from any predisposition in favour of any particular theory,
the impression left upon our minds by » consideration of the extent to which the
physiology of the Weberian mechanism is conditioned by the more obvious features
in its structure and relations tu the air-bladder is, that iv is notadapted for the
transmission of the smaller changes of whatever nature that may take place in the
condition of the gaseous contents of the air-bladder; still less is the mechanism
adapted for the transmission of any rapid vibratory impulses that may be con-
municated to the contained gases; on the contrary, the mechanism would seem to be
alimirably fitted to acquaint the Pish with the occurrence of the grosser volumetric
variations that fvom time to time may affect the entire gaseous contents.of the air
bladder.

2. ‘The second point. for consideration is—to which of the several known functions af
(he nir-bladder and internal ear are the Weberian ossicles to be regarded as accessory
structures.