At least two distinct fune-
tions must be considered in connection with the auditory organ, (1) audition, and
(2) equilibration, or orientation ;+ while the air-bladder in different Fishes is even more
complex in function, more so possibly than any other organ. Among the various usee

* Bow p. Bl.
+ As a Soquel to fhe resenvohes of Goury nnd others among Vertebrata, mention may be made of the
fet thet DuLage (11) and Tyeusstanw (12) huve shown that it is highly probable that the so-called,


ON THE ANATOMY OF PIRHES, 269

~ attrilmied to the air-bladder by different writers may be mentioned (1) phonation ;
(2) respiration : (3) au accessory to audition; or (4) its funetion may he purely
hydrostutie,

Certain of these fanetions can at onue be eliminated frou any discussion os to the
physiological significance of the Weberiau ossicles,

Equilibration is one of these, No conceivable changes ave likely to take place in
the condition of the gaseous contents of the airbladder as the result of any moyement
of rotution or oscillation on the part of the Fish, and without euch changes of a
degree and kind calculated to produce movements of the lateral walls of the anterior

chamber, no motion of the Weberian ossicles could take place, neither would any
S:hange oeeur in the endolymph of the semiciveular canals, either in the form of intra-
Stabyrinthie pressure, as Gonz himself proposed, or by an actual flow, as maintained
2by Macy, Brevr, and Crom-Browy: But even supposing that movements of
guscillation or rotation were competent. to so ulter the internal condition of the air-
Suindder that increased pressure. or a flow would lw produced in the fluids of the atrial
Soavitien, and secondarily, in the sinus and ductus endolymphaticus and the two
Baoeuli, the presence of an oblique valve in the ducttis sacculi-itricularis would
Bertainly tend to hamper, even if it did not entively prevent, the extension of such
“Alisturbunces into the semicireular canals, where the finetion of equilibration is
Sypacially located, And, finally, it may be mentioned that even if no other difficulty
Bixisted, the fact that uo differential action of the two membranous labyrinths could
‘Bake place as the result of stimuli received trom the air-bladder through the Weberian
Arsicles, must be fatal to the existence of any functional relations between equilibration
Bind the Weberian mechanism.
% tn addition to the yarious other methods by which voluntary sounds are produced
#n different Fishes, the uir-bladder not infrequently shaves in the function of phonation. Such sounds are either produced by the vibration of the internal annular divphragm,*
or hy the vibration of certain extriusie muscles,t the air-bladder in the latter case
~gotensifying the sound produced by acting as a resonator, Durossti (/or, rit.) is also
f opinion that some Ostariophyses (e.7., some Cyprinidm and one or two Silurida)
roduce breathing noises (“les bruits de souftle”) by the expulsion of gas trom the
Pair-bladder through the ductus pneumaticns, and it has heen suggested that the
grunting sounds emitted by Claas} have a similar origin. The possibility that the Weberian ossicles have anything whatever te do with
phonation, either in the Silurides, or in other Ostariophysem, is very remote and need
he but briefly considered.

inditory organs of many aquatic Tnvertobrata may perform singly ov conjointly the functions of
eqmbibraiiow and qudition,

* Mokman (274).

+ Dovosw# (118).