Ray (luc, cft.),

F Moxxovin (26) ou purely theoretical grounds also adopted Milnumy's theory; but admits bis inability
fo support his conclnstone by any experimental evidence.

~ The oxperinients of Diuansone (114) prove that a Fish wiblout av air-bladder has a density always


278 PROFESSORS T. W, BRIDGE AND A, 6. HADDON

least effort, the Fishes acquire a capacity for the maximum amount of locomotion with |
© minimum of muscular effort.*

(2.) Tn its movements of ascent and descent the Fish becomes exposed to angmentei
or diminished pressure, which in euch case varies in amount according to the variuble
height af the superimposed coliwim of water, and this leads to an expansion or con-
traction of the wir in the air-bladder, and. consequently to un increase or dioinution in.
the volume of the Fish itself, and thereby to a corresponding alteration m ite specific
gravity, which may temporarily remove the aninwl from its normal plane of least: effort,

(3.) The Fish has no power of varying the capacity of its air-bladder by direct
muscular contraction, and its readjustment to a new plane of least effort results from
a gradual increase or (leerense in the amount und volowe of the contained air to an
extent proportional to the new pressore, and due to « corresponding modification of
the processes concerted in the seeretion or absorption of gas into or from the aie
Iladder, Hence, by this apparently automatic method of adjuatment the Fish will
find, sooner or later, and whatever the depth of the water and the amomét of external
hydrostatic and atmospheric pressure, a plane of least effort where it will again
possess exactly the density of the water.

(4.) That Jonayxes Miitnme's theory of the displacement of the centre of
pravity upon a longitudinal axis in the ease of Fishes with a two-chambered air.
bladder has no foundation in fact,

The conclusions embodied in the preceding sections relate more particularly to the
Physoclisti—by far the largest group of Teleostean Vishes—but it may be pointed
out that in a general way they apply also to the Physostomi with, however, the
qualification that in the great majority of the latter group the mechanical liberation
of gas through the ductus pneumaticus takes the place of absorption as a means of
adjustment to reduced pressures. Although an air-bladder is unquestionably un advantage to the generality of Teleos-
teau Fishes, there can be no doubt that its presence i also attended by vertain
(lisudvantages which to a greater or less extent limit and control the lovomotor
activities of its possessor, and that of these the most important is the restriction
of freedom of locomotion in the yertical direction, and the consequent limitation
of ordinary locomotion within more or less well defined limits obove or below a
tolerably constant mean position. As Mornan says, when a Fish is in a plane of
least effort the possession of an air-bladder is a distinct advantage, but for rapid
changes of level, as in movements of ascent or descent, the air-bladder may prove a
considerable disadvantage or even a source of danger, In a Fish, he vemarks, whicli

is exposed to artificially diminished pressure the air contained in the atr-Wadder will

greater than that of the water, and consequently ix never in equilibriam, but must constantly nse its fink
to prevent itself from sinking.

* A Wish in eqnipoise in the water resembles the philosophical toy Jenown ag the “ Churthmsian
Diver,’ wid the slightest exertion of its fine will readily cans motion in the yerticn! dixeution.