A careful and experimental comparison
of the methods and rate of adjustraent in the two types under such conditions should
go 8 long way towards the discovery of the trae Junction and utility of the Weberiuu
apparatus,

There yet remain certain points in connection with the air-bladder of the Silaridm
whieh it is desirable should be disenssed from a physiological point of view ; thuse
are (4) the lateral ontaneous areus; ()) the * elastic-apring ” apparatus of Morcer ;
(c) the extrinsic rouscles of the Pimelodinw; and (/) the distinctive features of the
air-bladder and Weberian mechanism in the Siluridas as compared with other
Ostariophyser.

(a) The lateral eutancous areas—The close relation between tiie lateral walls of
the anterior chamber of the air-bladder and the adjacent superficial skin, which is ad



ON THE ANATOMY DOF FISHES. 298

‘ehameteristic of all the Siluridte normales, and as equally conspicuous by its absence
jw all other Ostariophyse, may possibly have some physiological signiticance. Baoewwan (loc ott.) has already referred to this feature in certain Siluroids, and
ts that, physiologically, itenables certain advantages to be realized, which, in
other Ostoriopliysern, are gained by the bipartite structure of the air-bladder. In
relvering to the two-chambered air-bladders of the Cyprinids, Characinides, and the
Gymuotidis, he directs attention to the fact that this subdivision of the air-bladder
heoura in no other Teleostei, and is always associated with the presence of a Weberian
qecbunism. ‘The variable ratios of pressure of the surrounding medium condition
Alc increase or decrease of the volume of gas contained in the whole air-bladder, and,
fying to the peculiar structure of that organ, these variations of volume will tind
Beir expression almost exclusively im corresponding oscillations in volume of the
stall clastic anterior chamber, to which alone the Weberian ossicles are related,
te larger posterior suc being scarcely, if at all, affected. A similar bipartition, the
@me writer also remarks, occurs only in afew Siluride, among which are mentioned,
epparently on the authority of Vanencrsnns, Auchanoglanis* and Auchenipterus. Bit in the case of the latter family Sacemput. says that the same physiological result
iarrived at in an entirely different way.