Hence it seems lo us, of the three causes tending: to produce degeneration,
the only ones likely to have much effect in reducing the air-bladder beyond a certain
minimum size are ‘* panmyxia” and “ regression towards mediocrity,” and if may
therefore be conjectured that the anlagonistie force of heredity hus so far retarded the
operation of these causes as to haye secured the persistence of a small vestigtal
air-bladder in all existing Siluridee abnormales. A. difficulty in the way of this
explanation of the inyariable retention of » small yestigial and useless air-bladder
in these Siluroids instead of its total suppression is the fact hat m so many Teleostei,
where the air-bladder has presumably become useless from some cause or other, the
total disappearance of the organ follows almost as a matter of course, In certain
families, Physostomi and Physoclisti, the air-bladder is totally absent, lhe Scopelidas
and Symbranchide are examples of this in the farmer yrowp, and the Pleuronectides
and Lophiides in the latter ; and if the line of argument adopted aboye in the special
ease of the Siluridee has any foree, it would be reasovablé to anticipate that it would
also apply to the former, and that in these families a sual vestigial, even if
useless, air-bladder would be yery generally present, which, as matter of fact, is
neyer the case. The suppression of an organ so physiologically important as the air
bladder in entire families of Teleostei is, of course, suggestive that the operation of
causes tendiag Lo produce this result has probably extended ayer a far wider period of
time than has been the case with genera or species only of those Silaroids in whick
merely a partial reduction has taken place, and that given suffeient time, and the
accumulative antion of such causes, the same oltimate result would be avrived atin the
latter asin the former, Bnt in opposition to this suggestion must be placed the fact
that in certain Physoclist fumilies (eg., Scombridee and Polynemidm) the wa-bladder is
absent in some apeciés of the same genus while present im others, Thos, on the
authority of Day,* it is stated that Scomber colins possesses an air-bladder, while
S, scomber has none > similatly among the Asiatic species of Polyjnemus, 2, paradiseus
* "The Borbut (Lote pvigaeix) aud Air. Bladder of Pishus,” *Cottoswold Nat. Biel Club,’ 1BB0,


ON THE ANATOMY OF FISHES, S09

P. totradaetylas are without: nir-bladders, while, ou the conteury. sueb organs are
tia FP. indicus awl P. plebejus.