An average
number of spore-mother-cells exposed in a single vertical section of a sporangium,
radially through the sorus, is found to be 245; transverse or tangential sections
show that the whole sporogenous mass is about eight layers in thickness; the total
number of spore-mother-cells would therefore be about 1960, and the potential
number of spores per sporangium ahout 1960 x 4 = 7840. As regards the septa dividing the loculi, variations in thickness, and even partial
septations have been seen. The usual thickness of the septum is of three layers of
firm permanent tissue, with a layer of tapetum on either side—from this as normal
{though its thickness may be exceeded), various simpler structures have been seen,
down to a partial septum; in fact, though I have not thought it necessary to
represent the facts by detailed drawings after this has been done so exhaustively for
Danea, the main features are similar to those in that genus. Summary of Results from Study of Kaulfussia.

(1.) The sori are not strictly circumscribed, but are liable to abstriction, and even
apart from such cases, the normal sori are often arranged in pairs on the lower
surface of the sporophyll.

(2.) The sorus consists of a number of sporangia arranged almost in a circle, with no
indusium.

(3.) The sporogenous tissue, together with the part of the wall immediately above
it, arises by segmentation of a single superficial cell for each sporangium.

(4.) The tapetum originates from the cells,immediately outside the sporogenous group.

(5.) An average number of spore-mother-cells in a single sporangium is about 1960,
and the potential output of spores is therefore about 7840, or in round numbers
over 7500.

(6.) The outer wall of the sporangia retains its bulky character up to the period of


OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 47

dehiscence, and there is no specially indurated superficial layer. The dehiscence is
by a narrow slit, which opens by shrinking of the adjoining cells ; there is no annulus.
(7.) Imperfect septations are occasionally found, where sporangia are large.
(8.) The cells which give rise to the sporogenous group, and those which form septa
are similar in origin, and at first are indistinguishable from one another.