In fig. 64 a more complete septation is represented,
the sporogenous group being partitioned as before by a plate of tapetum, but, in addi-
tion, ingrowths of permanent tissue project on either side into the sporangial cavity. A comparison of such examples as these with those described above for Danaea
(figs. 26-30) shows that the eases are essentially similar ; thus in Marattia also the
identity of the sporangium is not always strictly defined, a point which will have
special interest in connection with the theories which will be subsequently discussed
as to the nature and mode of origin of the synangia. An excellent account of the gaping of the two-lipped sorus, and of the dehiscence
of the sporangia having been given by Lurrssen (loc. cit., p. 21, &c.), it will be
unnecessary to enter into the details again, It need only be remarked that, apart
from the gaping of the sorus as a whole, the dehiscence of the individual sporangium
is of the same type as is seen in Dana or Kaulfussia, involving contraction of cells
by drying, while the efficiency of this is increased by the fact that the softer dehiscent
tissue is set in a firm resistant peripheral frame, which makes it necessary that the
process of drying shall widen the fissure. At maturity the wall of the sporangium,
apart from the region of dehiscence, consists of a firm superficial layer, with the more
or less contracted remains of the inner layers of the wall still visible. Summary for Marattia,

(1.) The segmentation of the young sorus leading to the formation of sporangia is
not constant in detail.

(2.) The sporogenous tissue together with the part of the wall immediately above
it arises commonly by segmentation of one superficial cell.

(3.) But there is frequently a variety in detail of the segmentation and in the size
of the sporogenous groups; in some cases the whole group is not referable in origin
to a single archesporial cell.

(4.) The tapetum arises from cells adjoining, and outside the sporogenous groups.

(5.) There is a mechanical tissue which has the function of making the two sides of
the sorus gape apart at maturity; the dehiscence of the individual sporangia is by
slits in radial planes, the gaping of which is brought about by contraction of thinner
walled cells surrounded by a more firm and resistant frame.