Some of these are especially well seen in sections of fossil
teeth, because in such it often happens that the dentine, while retaining all its
structure, has become stained of a rich reddish-brown colour, and is thus sharply
differentiated from the enamel, which remains colourless. No such satisfactory staining of the dentine can be accomplished in recent teeth,
unless the dentine has been to some extent decalcified, and this, of course, greatly
alects the enamel, even if it does not dissolve it all away.

5 One of the most instructive preparations in my collection has been cut from a
goth which, unfortunately, was not previously identified, but I have nevertheless
selected it for description because it photographs well, and shows with almost
Wiagrammatic clearness many of those points which are characteristic of and common
& many of the recent specimens of Selachian teeth.

5 The tooth came from the London clay, and may, perhaps, have belonged to a
@anoid or to a Cestraciont, but as it is only with its structure that we are at present
@ncerned, it is almost as available for our purposes as though it had been identified.
<7 The body of the tooth consists of osteodentine, and is of a reddish-brown colour,
Rut it is sufficiently transparent for all the details of its structure to show very clearly. Butside this osteodentine comes a layer about 3 millims. in thickness which is
Blourless, of glassy transparency, and which has a higher refractive index than the
Hjacent dentine (Plate 17, fig. 1).

= This difference in colour, which is of very frequent occurrence in fossil teeth, as well
a the great transparency of the enamel layer, renders conspicuous the fact that the line
£f junction between the two tissues is not straight, but that extensions of the brown

entine matrix run out for some distance into the enamel, becoming smaller as they
o, and also less defined, until they are finally lost sight of after having traversed
Peahothing less than one-third of the thickness of the enamel.

§ In each of these processes of dentine matrix one, two, or more dentinal tubes may

traced.

& These have had their origin from some of the larger canals of the osteodentine, and
they do not cease with the fading out of the brown matrix, but run on through the
whole thickness of the enamel. This penetration of the enamel by tracts of dentine matrix has been noted by
several observers, and recently Dr. Paut (10) has suggested that in this fact lay the
clue to the a by dentinal tubes of such tubular enamels as those of the
Marsupials or of Hyraz.