S. TOMES ON THE STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT

on the contrary, it seems, so to speak, to jump en masse from being all soft to being
all hard, and there is never any definite appearance indicative of calcification pro-
eressing from without inwards, or the reverse. If the outer part of the layer be examined when both it and the ameloblasts are
at their greatest development, or even a little before this period, there is an
appearance of tapering bands which run inwards (figs. 8, 12, and 15), and these are
capable of being stained with methyl blue; they look at first sight a little like
Toms’ processes from the ameloblasts, but they never pull away with the cells in
the smallest degree, nor has the surface of the layer at any time the pitted

si appearance so characteristic of the youngest part of forming Mammalian enamel.

s But their regularity, and the fact that the distauce at which they stand apart
just corresponds to the width of the ameloblasts, strongly suggest that the latter are
a at work doing something at these points. B The only plausible conjecture that I can offer is that the ameloblasts furnish the
8 special lime salts with which the layer is hardened, and that these permeate and are
6 absorbed by the organic matrix which is there ready to receive them.

2 The truth of this supposition can, unfortunately, only be tested by indirect means,
ie) and the first point is to ascertain precisely when calcification of the layer does take
4 place.

5 It is very easy to see when calcification of the true dentine commences, because
5 its matrix stains so much more strongly than the rest of the structures about it, and
2 if it could be shown that the hardening of the outer layer took place after it was
2 cut off from the pulp by a plate of dentine, it would be obvious that it could only
> get its supplies of lime salts from the ameloblasts.

3 But unfortunately this does not seem to be the order of events, for very soon after
e dentine layers can be distinguished, the enamel is so far advanced in calcification
tS . : : .

5 that it dissolves away in acids (see fig. 13). Moreover, the large ameloblasts are contemporaneous with the period immediately
antecedent to the formation of a skin of dentine, and are atrophied soon after a little
of the latter has been formed.