In Cycas and Gingko the cavity
above the prothallium is filled with fluid, and the pollen tube never comes within a
considerable distance of the archegonia, but the antherozoids escape into the fluid
above the archegonia and thence make their way to the oospheres. In Zamia,
however, the prothallial cavity contains only air: the pollen tube, however, seems
actually to come in contact with the neck of the archegonium, then (as WEBBER
believes) the tube bursts and itself supplies a drop of fluid in which the antherozoids
can make their way, through the neck of the archegonia, to the oospheres.* It is a

* Although it is quite clear that the antherozoids of Zamia are capable, when set free from the pollen


FERTILIZATION AND RELATED PHENOMENA IN PINUS SILVESTRIS. 421

very slight step from Zamia to the method of fertilization in all Conifers hitherto
described (except Gingko), where fertilization is completely siphonogamic, the pollen
tube making its way through the neck of the archegonium and carrying the
generative cells directly to the oosphere. Taking this into consideration, and also
the fact that the fertilization of Conifers has been worked out in detail in such a
small number of cases, it is quite possible that antherozoids will be discovered in a
number of other forms. Even if Gingko remains the only representative of the
group, with actually motile antherozoids, it seems not improbable—unless we are to
suppose that disappearance of cilia has taken place co-temporaneously with the attain-
Rent of perfect siphonogamic fertilization—that cilia in a functionless condition, or,
és least, traces of them, will be observed in some of the generative cells of Conifers.
will be interesting to see if any trace of the structure called by WepBerR (42) a
(depharoplast, which is so striking in the generative cells of Zamia, will be discovered
fAter in the immotile cells of the Conifers. It is this important structure which
fives origin, as Betaserr (32-35) has shown, to the ciliary band in the Filicines,
Eauisetines, and Characee ; WEBBER (40, 41) also has described and figured most
@early the development of the ciliary band from it in Zamia, and Hirase and
eae (36) state that it performs the same function in the antherozoids of Cycas and :
Bingko.
'B The contents pass out from the pollen tube through a well-marked pit in its wall,
the rupture of the pit-closing membrane.
2 3 The cytoplasm of the egg shows a very fine reticular structure ; no evidence could
% obtained for the existence of a foam structure.
£The first segmentation spindle is, in part, nuclear in origin.