Hence, although the preparations, read by the light of more perfect
ones obtained elsewhere, threw light upon their process of enamel formation, they
were not sufficiently good to serve for a close investigation, and I had to seek for
some other fish in which these adverse conditions did not prevail, and finally
resorted to certain of the Gadide, principally to the Ling and the Hake. In all of the Gadidee the teeth are surmounted by sharp caps of enamel which sit
like spear-points upon their apices (10); and, in favourable sections, the enamel is
marked by a fine striation which runs in from the free surface and recalls the struc-
ture seen in greater perfection in Sargus and in Labrus. (Plate 5, fig. 1.)

These caps are fitted on to a shoulder of the dentine which is hollowed out
into a circumferential groove, so that, although the enamel cap is of material thick-
ness, it does not greatly increase the outside dimensions of the tooth. Whether
the enamel is confined to this cap or is continued down over the rest of the tooth
is a matter which becomes of some interest when the enamel organ of the tooth
germ is considered ; it might seem to be a very easy point to determine, but as
a matter of fact it is very difficult to be quite certain whether there is or is
not an exceedingly thin layer of distinct material surrounding a ground section
of any somewhat highly refractive substance, for optical effects due to the thick-
ness of the section often very closely simulate the existence of such a layer
where none actually exists. As, however, there is some appearance of an exceedingly
thin layer which is more brittle than the rest of the tooth, all that can safely be
said is, that if there be any enamel over the sides of the tooth it is not more
than 10» in thickness, #.¢., is exceedingly rudimentary, When subjected to the


ENAMEL IN CERTAIN OSSEOUS FISH. 37

action of an acid, the whole enamel cap quickly dissolves away, leaving only a mere
trace of organic residue, so that in the finished condition the enamel can contain but
a very small percentage of organic matter. Tn its earliest stages the tooth germ of the Hake or of the Ling does not present
any marked peculiarities, and resembles a mammalian tooth germ; at a period
immediately antecedent to the commencement of dentine calcification the dentine
papilla (186 in length) has a sharply-defined border, beneath which, and apparently
not quite reaching up to it, is a well-defined layer of odontoblast cells averaging
18 » in length. (Fig. 2.)

Enclosing this like a cap is an enamel organ which consists of the usual double
row of cells, the inner of which (ameloblasts) form the internal epithelium of the
enamel organ, and are elongated columnar cells 19 » in length.