Fig. 13. Overlap of the skin-fields of median and ulnar nerve-trunks (1) compared with overlap of the skin-fields
of the VIIth cervical and Ist thoracic segmental nerves (2).

the forearm produces a patch of anesthesia, the limits of which are shown in fig. 11
by the line “ulnar.” Section of the ulnar trunk halfway down the forearm Lats
a patch of anesthesia with the limit marked by the line “median” in the agile

In harmon y with the difference of overlap of territories of the palmar nerves dad of
their spinal roots, is the much greater overlapping of the contiguous borders of the
Vth cranial and IInd cervical than of the territories of the individual divisions of the
Vth cranial itself (see above, p. 62), a difference which was made use of in determining


OF THE FIBRES OF THE POSTERIOR ROOTS OF SPINAL NERVES. 109

whether those divisions were of segmental quality, or, like other peripheral nerves,
functional rather than morphological entities. It is then clear that in the hand, as in the foot of Macacus, the extent of
overlap of the skin-fields of the peripheral nerve-trunks, even on the exquisitely
sensitive plantar and palmar surfaces, is much less than that of the cutaneous areas
of the nerve-roots ; it is, in fact, not so great as may be the overlap of the fields of
nerye-roots three segments distant one from another. If fig. 7, p. 102, be compared as
in fig. 13 with fig. 11, p. 106, it will be seen that in the palm the region of triple
overlap marked in the latter is greater than the medio-ulnar overlap in the former ;
and similarly in the fingers, if we set aside the communication between ulnar and
median in the forearm, which is of only exceptional occurrence in Man. It is also
notable that the region of triple overlap, which is the central region of double over-
lap, strikes a line on the palm which leads to and includes the medius digit, whereas
the peripheral nerve-trunk overlap strikes a line leading to and taking in part of a
different digit, namely, the annulus.