IV. ;
also ¢f. the early surface view fignres of sieve plates, De Bary (Eng. ed.), fig. 77, p. 180,

} SrraspurGER, ‘Bot. Practicum’ (Eng. ed.), fig. 77, p. 180,


HISTOLOGY OF THE CELL WALL. 113

parenchyma cells in the arrangements of their connecting threads, The end walls are
full of darkly stained curved threads, exactly like the tangential walls of the starch
medullary-ray cells, and if the section passes through two or three of these cells
adjoining one another, they are seen to be well united by groups of threads, both
large and small, in well-marked pits. (Fig. 25, Plate 34.)

The phloem parenchyma cells are much shorter than the sieve tubes, and possess
square end walls, There are two kinds of these cells,* namely, those containing
starch, which are similar to medullary-ray cells, and those containing crystals in a
resinous-looking matrix. Connections between the latter and the starch cells are not
easily seen, for the thread groups are indistinct and only stain faintly, which is due
probably either to the fact that their contents do not stain with the reagents used, or
else that the cells are now no longer living, but merely act as receptacles for calcium
oxalate and resinous substances. The medullary rays are very striking objects when they are in contact with bast-
parenchyma cells, in consequence of the profusion of threads with which the walls are
provided ; the starch cells show a very large number of groups of dark threads
» Situated in pits, and one or two groups of threads are also seen uniting the several
cells of the ray (the ray in fig. 25 is a very small one). In the radial section recently
described (see p. 112, and fig. 30, Plate 34) the pits were very shallow because the
walls were young, whereas, in the tangential section mentioned above, the preparation
was taken from an older region of the phloem, and the pits are consequently deeper
owing to the increase in thickness of the unpitted portions of the wall. (Fig. 26
shows a tangential section of a piece of a fairly young medullary ray, m.r.) Since the
whole of a tangential section will not be accurately tangential owing to the curvature
of the stem, sieve tubes may be seen at the edges of sections and bast-parenchyma in
the centre, or vice versd; and in such sections the absence of any communication
between these two elements is very noticeable.