It is reasonable to suppose that the pressure of such a stream would
be variable, according to circumstances, and then the effect of the unusually long and

st fine canals which pierce the curious localised thickenings of the walls of the passage
&cells might tend to give a uniform rate of flow to the substances in solution, which
Swould thus gradually pass to the sieve tubes.

wo
& It will be noticed in the figure that several albuminous cells have to be passed

oO
through to reach the rectangular sieve tubes (fig. 36, Plate 35), with which they
aare connected by exactly similar groups of threads to those between the albuminous
geells. As the sieve tubes are similar to those already described in the stem, they
need not be dealt with again here.
cf The general distribution of the connecting threads must now be briefly discussed.
.< It has been noticed that the main direction of the threads in the cortex and phloem
-Zis the tangential one, so that it is the radial walls which are pierced; but in the
3 phloem the divisions from the cambium take place, especially, in a tangential
= direction, and therefore, if the threads represent the persistent nodes of the achro-
3 matin fibres, they should be found in these walls ; but the reverse is the case, and
“d the inference is that such threads have only a transitory existence in the wall, which
£& then quickly becomes a solid membrane.
% ~The transitory nature of certain of the threads (in this case situated on the radial
¥ walls) also explains the absence of them between the sieve tubes and medullary-ray
g cells; and the marked difference in the distribution of the threads in the outer and
the more internal portions of the cortex may possibly be explained in some similar
3 manner. Bai any case, the important fact comes to the fore that with the exception of the
E medullary ray and cork cambium cells, it is on the radial walls that the threads
fa chiefly occur, and this further suggests the important conclusion that in the tissues
of the Coniferze submitted to examination the food supplies and the stimuli are both
conducted for the most part in a tangential and vertical direction. GENERAL CONCLUSIONS. The research was undertaken with a view of ascertaining to what extent “ con-
necting threads” are distributed throughout the body of any given plant, and for this
purpose the endosperm and the various tissues of the stem, leaf, and root of the


120 MESSRS.