It is at once evident by comparing the figures of the two tables that the thinning of
the layers at the bottoms of the fissures in the visuo-sensory cortex is relatively much
more marked than is the alteration in depth of the various layers of the apices and
flat surfaces; in other words, the bend at the bottom of the fissures is relatively
more abrupt in the visuo-sensory cortex than it is in the visuo-psychiec. Whilst this matter is one of interest rather than importance, and may appear to be
self-evident, it has, however, been thought desirable to refer to it here, as the facts
are so clearly brought out by a study of the micrometer measurements introduced into
this section. If the facts be considered self-evident, the discussion has probably been
not without value as an illustration of the general accuracy of the measurements. From the subject matter in this section the following conclusions may be drawn—

(1) In the area of special lamination described in Section 4, in cases of old standing
optic atrophy, the line of Grnnart is decreased nearly 50 per cent. in
thickness, and the outer granule layer more than 10 per cent.

(2) In the visuo-psychie region surrounding the area of special lamination, old
standing optic atrophy causes no modification of the lamination.

(3) In anophthalmos the conjoined outer granule layer and line of Gennant (for
the granules in the former layer are not sufficiently obvious to admit of easy
micrometer measurement alone), are narrowed down to two-thirds of the
normal thickness, the other layers of the cortex being approximately
unchanged. This amount of narrowing is the same as that found in cases
of old standing optic atrophy.

(4) The majority of the layers of the cortex do not vary appreciably in thickness
as a result of age or chronic insanity, but there is an almost exact corre-
spondence between the thickness of the conjoined Ist and 2nd layers of
the cortex, and the degree of amentia or dementia existing in the patient.

282


212 DR.