If we suppose the air outside the leaf to be perfectly still,* so that density “shells”
are formed outside as well as inside the leaf, the denominator of the fraction in the
last equation beomes / + 2«, and the maximum amount of carbon dioxide entering
the leaf per square centim, per hour will be 2°095 cub, centims. Both these values are very much in excess of the actual amounts of CO, taken in
by a leaf when actively assimilating.

* The epidermal hairs which frequently occur on the underside of many leaves may be sufficient to
prevent air currents from sweeping away the external density “shells” in many cases, and the manner in
which some stomates (¢.g., Aloé nigricans) are sunk in the thick epidermis must also contribute to the
same end,


GASES AND LIQUIDS, ETC., IN PLANTS. 277

"When a leaf is assimilating at the rate of 1°8 grammes of carbohydrate per square
metre of leaf surface per hour, the greatest amount which has hitherto been recorded
for Helianthus annuus by the weighing method of Sacus, it does not require a greater
intake of carbon dioxide than ‘134 cub. centim. per square centim. per hour ; that is
to say, only from 5:2 to 6°3 per cent. of the maximum amount which the diffusion
apparatus of the leaf would be capable of effecting if the interior of the leaf were a
perfect “ sink” of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The great difference between the observed intake of CO, and the maximum
possible intake deduced from a consideration of the physical mechanism of the leaf
is of course due to the fact that the pressure of the gas in the respiratory cavity and
interspaces is still considerable, even during active assimilation, so that there is only
a very small gradient between the external and internal gas, due to the imperfection
of the absorption.*

From the data already given it is possible to deduce the average pressure of the
carbon dioxide in the interior of the assimilating leaf when that of the outer air is
known. Under like conditions the rate of intake will depend on the magnitude
p — p), where p and p, represent the pressures of the carbon dioxide in the outer air
and in the intercellular spaces respectively. When p,; = 0 we have seen that the intake may amount to 2°578 cub. centims. per
square centim. per hour when the outer air is in motion, and 2°095 cub. centim. when
the air is still, Under these two sets of conditions during normal assimilation the
partial pressure of the CO, inside the leaf will therefore be as follows, p being taken
as unity :—

134

(1) 1—5575 = 9481
134
(2) 1 — 5595 = “9361

In other words, it is only necessary to have a difference of pressure in the carbon

* It is a matter of some interest in connection with the above remarks to determine the relation which
exists between the area of an open stomate and the superficial area of the cells of the spongy parenchyma
immediately corresponding to it, and forming the absorptive surface for the entering CO: We have
endeavoured to ascertain this in the two cases of Helianthus annuus and Catalpa bignonivides, Owing to the
irregular contour of the cells the difficulties of measurement are considerable, and the results must only be
regarded as approximations.