In the case of the absorbent disc, the convergent hyperbolic lines of flux of the
carbon dioxide all terminate in the surface of the disc, and normal to it, where they
are trapped by the absorbent. (See fig. 1, p. 256.) With the perforated diaphragm, on
the other hand, the lines of flow, which are convergent as they approach the disc, bend
round their foci, situated in the edges of the dise, and form a divergent system on the
other side. If the chamber into which they pass is a perfectly absorbent one, and is
sufficiently large, we shall have formed on the inner side of the diaphragm a system
of “shells” of equal density exactly similar to those of the outside; but with the
gradient of density in the opposite direction, the density decreasing from the dia-
phragm inwards (fig. 2). This system of internal “ shells,” which we may designate as
negative, will of course be shielded from the direct action of currents in the outer
air, if the aperture is not large, and they will manifestly be as effective in regulating
the inflow according to the linear dimensions of the aperture as the outer or positive
shells, whilst they are quite independent of the latter, which may be completely
swept away, without interfering with the “diameter law.”*

This view is prefectly in accord with the facts, and it also explains why in Experi-
ments 2 and 3, Table TIL, p. 244, the amount of diffusion was found to be inter-
mediate between the diameter and area ratios of the apertures, the rim or margin of
the aperture in these cases not being sufficiently wide to allow a complete system of
internal shells to be formed.

* It must be understood that we are only speaking here of the relative rates of diffusion through
apertures of different sizes and under similar conditions. The actual rate of diffusion through an aperture
is, as will be shown later, much influenced according to whether we haye a single or double system of
shells,


GASES AND LIQUIDS, ETC., IN PLANTS. 255

Experimental Demonstration of the Formation of Ellipsoidal “ Shells” of Equal
Density during Diffusion through an Aperture in a Diaphragm. All the phenomena of diffusion through apertures in a diaphragm, or into an
absorbent surface surrounded by a broad rim, admit of a complete and satisfactory
explanation if we assume that the converging or diverging lines of flow to or from
the aperture or absorbing surface result in the production of a system of “shells” of
equal density, which locally alter the gradient in the immediate neighbourhood of
the septum.