There was never
g the slightest doubt or uncertainty as regards a fresh and uninjured eyeball; the
Sp response was always positive. Difliculties of interpretation arose only in the case of
eyes that had undergone manipulation; these, however, have been considerably
‘| diminished since I have found means of experimentally modifying at will the character
2 of the response by means of increased eyeball tension, And I may remark in passing
2 that this fact has led me to believe that in the modifications that have sometimes
3 (but not always) supervened with lapse of time, alterations of eyeball tension
8 have been a principal factor. I have witnessed response of the first type two or
cs three days after death, when the eyeballs had become obviously flaccid ; and I have
£ witnessed response of the first type very shortly after excision, and I now think it
P probable that in such case the eyeball had been accidentally compressed more than
= usual.

g The various ,types of response that may be witnessed on excised eyeballs, are

= : ° . : ’
= summarised in the accompanying diagram (fig. 13).

2% Type I. is that presented by the response of a normal fresh eyeball in the great

é majority of cases—nearly always in fact—to such an extent indeed that I feel

E assured in the rare cases in which the type is of another form, the eyeball must have

A suffered compression, According to the terminology used in this paper, both
responses are positive ; the first being in the same direction as the exciting current,
cannot be polarisation, but is obviously blaze effect; the second being opposed in
direction to the exciting current, is in the polarisation current, and is therefore of
debateable nature,

Type IV. is that presented by an absolutely dead eyeball. The after-currents are
counter-currents in relation to excitatory currents, of much smaller electromotive
value and of much shorter duration than blaze currents. They are ordinary polarisa-
tion effects.

type ILL is that presented by an eyeball towards the close of prolonged observa-


208 DR.