The view of the sporangium from
the side on which dehiscence takes place shows that the annulus is not continued
throughout as a distinct series of cells (fig. 96); there is no definite group of cells of
the stomium, such as is seen in the Cyatheaceze ; this feature is again comparable to
that in Gil. circinata; the drawings of the central (fig. 97) and peripheral faces
(fig. 98) will complete the knowledge of the external form of the sporangium in this
species. The stalk is short and rather thick, and the insertion by a rosette of cells,
some six in number; this harmonises with the segmentation of the parent cell,
demonstrated by Prantu for T'richomanes,{ and verified in Hymenophyllum, in which
the first oblique segmentation wall is inserted on the basal wall of the parent cell ;
this is a common type for Ferns with large sporangia and short stalks, as against
those with smaller sporangia and long stalks.

* ‘Die Hymenophyllaceen,’ p. 474.

t Loc, cit., p. 35, and plate 5.
} Loe, cit, p. 35, &e,


OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS. 63

The sporangia of Zrichomanes speciosum* have been exhaustively treated by
Prantt. I have made observations on several species of the genus which substan-
tially support his facts; but as Prantt did not give drawings of the mature sporangia,
and as numerous drawings of them have been published by various authors which
do not represent their exact form, and frequently take no account of the orientation,
I have represented the sporangia of 7’r. radicans in figs. 99-102, from four different
points of view. Fig. 101 shows the sporangium presenting its central face; the
close analogy with fig. 97 of Hym. dilatatum is obvious, though it is smaller in size,
and with fewer cells in the annulus ; but fluctuations less in extent though similar in
nature are found in 7’. radicans itself, the cells of the annulus varying between 20
and 25. ‘There is also a greater simplicity in the region of the stomium, which in
Trichomanes is represented by two cells only, Fig, 102 represents the “ peripheral”
face, the thin-walled region (“ Platte”) being surrounded by the annulus, which takes
the form of a twisted loop. This twisted form is clearly shown in fig. 99, which
demonstrates also the relation of the sporangium to the receptacle, and that the
distal part of the annulus is directed obliquely towards its apex.