In support of the view that the electric organ of FR. radiata is a progressive
structure, or, if not still advancing, that it has been comparatively recently arrested
in its progress, there is, first, the remarkable developmental history. I have

already pointed out that, while the electric organ of 2. batis is late in making
its first appearance, the organ of Ft. radiata is very much later; that, in fact, while
in an embryo R#. batts 12 cm. in length the three essential layers of the complex
Gilises have already been established, in a R. radiata completely developed and of a
“onsiderable size (Plate 79, fig. 8), the muscular fibres (now long and well developed)
Sve only beginning to pass into the primary clubs. I have shown, further, that the
Zlubs pass slowly through a series of intermediate stages before the cup form is
yassumed, and that the cups when eventually completed slowly increase in size as the
kate increases in length, and that in the largest specimens of F. radiata examined
Ghere was no indication of degeneration, either in the electric cups or in the nerves
Bassing to them.
20 In fact, the history of the development of the cups in 2. radiata seems to be, as
far as it goes, a complete record of the more important changes which have taken place
Gin the evolution of electric organs out of muscular fibres. There is at no period any
Sindication of degeneration or any evidence that in R. radiata a higher stage of
‘Bdevelopment of the electric organ was ever reached. As one would expect, the
Zelectric (motor) plate gradually increases in size, and the muscular fibre is slowly
emodified to form a suitable support, the fibre retaining, however, its original
structure, and, probably, to a certain extent, the power of contracting ; and, hence,
Sthe transformation is far less complete than in R. batis, in which, at the most, only a
gvestige of the original muscular fibre persists unaltered, the whole of the anterior
E portion undergoing profound modifications.
3 Hence, taking into consideration that the young 2. radiata has reached the adult
Sform before the muscular fibres are converted into clubs, that the clubs are quite
double the size of those in R. batis, and that, instead of at once giving rise to cups,
a they form large secondary clubs, and that the cups when they eventually appear in
the all but mature Skate retain the characteristic structure of ordinary muscular
fibres, and, further, that in the largest specimens examined there was no indication of
degeneration in the cups, or of retrogressive changes in the electric plate or its
extremely rich supply of nerves, it may, I think, be inferred that in R. radiata the
electric organ, though relatively extremely small and apparently functionless, is in a
state of progressive development.