But the absence of all mention of the
anterior ciliated band in his account can hardly be explained thus; and since this
band is also omitted in the figures given by Buscu (5), who obtained his larva



DEVELOPMENT OF ANTEDON ROSACEA. 265

~ in Kirkwall Bay in 1849, it is possible that it is altogether absent in the British
form.
y That Gorre did not notice it is less surprising, as he does not appear to have
“© worked much with fresh material, and it is with difficulty recognisable in spirit
specimens. Of the oral depression described by him as occurring between tbe fourth
‘and fifth ciliated bands (11, p. 590) I could find no trace,
Although Wyvitte THomson asserts that the larva “swims with either extremity
‘| in advance indifferently” (21, p. 522), I find that in almost all cases the ciliated
‘) tuft is directed forwards; indeed, out of hundreds of larvee examined, I never saw
‘one swim in the opposite direction, except when it encountered an obstacle, in which
a - ease it would reverse its motion for a short distance, always, however, resuming before
long its original course. The fact that when at rest the cilia all curve towards
the anterior end is probably connected with this mode of swimming.
& (2.) Internal Anatomy.—We left the larva at the end of the fourth day with a
QS ring-like alimentary canal, and four cavities derived from it, namely (1), an anterior
8 body-cavity, running forward into the preoral lobe, and at its posterior end turning
© slightly to the left to open into (2), the hydrocele, which is at present a simple
%» yesicle; (3 and 4), the right and left body-cavities, which are still connected by
a solid cord of cells passing through the mesenteron; but very soon this cord is
% completely absorbed, so that the mesenteron has no longer the form of a ring, but
& rather that of a disc flattened between the body-cavities.
3 Rather before this stage is reached an important change takes place in the
2 positions of the right and left body-cavities. The latter, which lies immediately
% behind the hydrocele, shifts towards the posterior end, and at the same time towards
= the ventral surface ; while the right body-cavity becomes more and more anterior and
‘£ dorsal. In consequence of this change, the mesentery separating these two cavities,
= instead of being longitudinal, assumes an oblique position, which is more easily
& understood from figures than from a description.
3 Fig. 21 (Plate 44) represents a horizontal section, seen from the dorsal side, in which
‘§ the right body-cavity is clearly more anterior than the left ; the mesentery is visible
on each side of the alimentary canal, and a line joining these two portions of it would
‘8 vepresent its course across the back of the larva : in this specimen the mesentery is very
decidedly oblique, but in many larve on the seventh day it appears, from this point of
i view, to have an almost completely transverse course.