DONCASTER ON EXPERIMENTS IN HYBRIDIZATION, WITH

the increase in the other characters is probably due to a continued growth of the
skeleton. In the experiments made in May and June, on the other hand, the decrease
in double arm-bars is less marked, and the percentage of cross-bars and anterior body-
skeleton is usually either stationary or actually lower, except that in the latter the
number of “large” has often increased at the expense of the “small.” The cause of
this difference between the seasons is probably the increase of temperature. In the
earlier experiments, the plutei had not reached the maximum possible growth without
food on the 8th day, and so increased in skeletal growth up to the 12th, but as the
temperature rose the larvee grew more quickly, and could not continue to develop
beyond the 8th day without food, so that during the next few days the most advanced
individuals died off from want of nourishment, and only the more backward remained,
Tt has been pointed out that in the early stages the selective mortality acts in favour
of the stronger individuals, which have the Spherechinus features most fully developed
(cf. 181, 1814, 8th day), but later, unless food is supplied, these die off because they
soonest require nourishment, and the weaker survive. .These differences of growth,
according to the temperature, also account for the fact that in the summer the per-
centage of larvee with two or three full arm-bars is much lower than in winter. The
reason appears to be that until the arms reach a certain length, the two skeletal bars
which are most frequently found at the base grow equally, but later, when the arm
gets longer, one of them ceases to grow, and an arm which in the young stage would
be classed as “2” would afterwards become “14.” But in the cool weather the arms
remain short, and hence there is a higher percentage with “2” in winter and spring
than in summer. A number of experiments were made to determine whether an individual which
proved “ prepotent ” when crossed with one A of the other species, was also prepotent
when crossed with other specimens B and C; records of these will be found in
Nos. 121-132, 180-183, 221-227, and the results discussed in a subsequent section,

6.