It would appear @ priori reasonable to assume that in the first instance the larger-
leaved were derived from a smaller-leaved ancestry. On the other hand, there is a chain of evidence to show that certain of the
Gymnosperms originated from a larger-leaved Cyeado-filicinean ancestry.t It must
not, therefore, be assumed that all small-leaved forms were so derived, or that all large-
leaved forms were of prior origin, though morphological argument has frequently
proceeded on this assumption.{ The middle position is probably nearest to the truth,
viz., that while in the first instance smaller-leaved forms gave rise to the larger-leaved
plants which we call “ Ferns,” conversely, certain of the latter may, along lines of
reduction, have eventuated in smaller-leaved Gymnospermic types. We shall,
therefore, start from the position that im the evolution of the Ferns some such
leaf-cnlargment as is faintly indicated in certain other Pteridophyta was carried out
here to a higher degree than in any other Archegoniate plants ; in fact, that the Ferns
are essentially strobiloid types which have attained to large and complex leaves.§

* © Annals of Botany,’ vol. 3, p. 359, where the results of study of the wings of various Fern-leaves are
summarised, It is shown that while a definite marginal series of cells, with definite segmentation, is found
in the Polypodiacew, the Marattiaceze and Osmundacer (excluding filmy Todeas) have no single marginal
series, but the wings when young are composed of cells showing the (T) division, such as are found in the
leaves of other Pteridophytes (compare, /.c., Plate 23, figs. 60 and 70-73, with Giick’s figs. 20-29,
‘Flora,’ 1895). It is evident that the same method of segmentation is found in the leaves of Eusporangiate
Ferns as in those of Selaginella or Equisetum. Similarly (.c., p. 339), notwithstanding the regularity of
segmentation of the two-sided initial cell at the apex of the leaves of the Leptosporangiate Ferns, in the
Osmundacem there is a single three-sided initial cell, and in the Marattiacee there may be a plurality of
initials, The conclusion to be drawn from these facts will then be that the regularity of segmentation of
apex and wings seen in the Leptosporangiate Ferns is not an essential character of the Fern-leaf at large ;
it has probably been acquired in the course of the specialisation of these Ferns, and is not represented in
those types which the fossil evidence points out as the most primitive forms.

+ See Scorr, ‘Studies in Fossil Botany,’ pp. 513-520,

{ It was a common position, some twenty-five years ago, to regard the Leptosporangiate Ferns as the
most primitive Pteridophytes, and to look upon all the rest as the results of reduction, not only of the
sporangia and sori, but also of the sporophylls (see SrraspurRGER, ‘ Bot.