They accord with my own
observations (‘ Studies,’ I., Plate 49, figs. 110-113).

+t Witson Smiru, l.c., p. 256.

tt ‘Studies,’ IV., pp. 35, 40. THE MORPHOLOGY OF SPORE=PRODUCING MEMBERS. 207

genous group, Similarly, in the larger sporangia of the Marattiaces, it originates
from the wall; in the smaller sporangia of the Leptosporangiate Ferns, from the
central cell (archesporium ?), Again, in Ophioglossum, with its large sporangia, there
is no.definite tapetum, in JZelminthostachys and Botrychium there is a tapetum
derived outside the sporogenous group. These facts support the general statement
that indefinite and nonspecialised nutritive arrangements are characteristic of larger
sporangia, but more definite tapetal layers are found in the smaller; and further, that
while in sporangia of relatively large size the tapetum may originate outside the
=, Sporogenous group, in smaller sporangia of the same affinity it may be cut off from
S the sporogenous cell or cell-group. A progressive change such as this last was
8 suggested by Lane,* as a possible explanation of the results observed by him in the
& microsporangia of Stangeria; a functional tapetum is there derived from the
& sporogenous group; outside this two layers derived from the surrounding tissue
Q resembles the tapetum of the Marattiacesw in position, but do not take the tapetal
g characters; Lana suggests that these ‘may possibly represent a tapetum derived
BE} from cells surrounding the sporogenous group, an additional tapetal layer having
arisen from the latter.” In the microsporangia of the Gymnosperms there seems to
E be some want of uniformity in the origin of the tapetum,t while in the Angiosperms it
2 is known to be derived from the tissues outside the sporogenous group, and to appear
EB as a well-defined glandular band. RS) The result is then that the tapetum is ineonstant both in occurrence and origin ; that
3 it may arise from different sources, even in the same sporangium ; that in certain large
3 groups of plants, ‘in forms with larger sporangia the tapetum originates outside the
< sporogenous group, while in those with smaller sporangia it may be derived partially
& or wholly from the sporogenous group; and that there is good reason to think that a
4 transition from one type to the other may have taken place in more than one phylum.