It is clear, however, that
N&cGELI contemplated in the primitive sporophyte an organism in which all the leaves were sporophylls,
and that the vegetative system was increased by deferring the spore-production to later stages m the
individual. In these respects his view is in accordance with my own.

+ GoEBEL, ‘ Organographie,’ pp. 689, 690.

} The above theory of the origin of the strobilus is not essentially connected with the comparisons
which follow. Any one who disagrees with it should not on that account give less attention to those
comparisons, which it is hoped will throw light upon the modifications of the strobiloid type: these will
hold, even though the account given of the origin of the strobilus may not be the correct one.

2F2


220 PROFESSOR F. 0, BOWER ON STUDIES IN

Theory of the Sporangiophore.*

Whether or not this hypothesis of the origin of a Lycopod strobilus approaches the
actual truth, comparison points out the genus Lycopediwm as a primitive one; but
other forms more or less closely related to them are characterised by more complex
sporangial arrangements; the increase of the individual sporangium, as in Lepidodendron
and Jsoetes, has been noted elsewhere,t and evidence has been brought forward of
the probability of septation of the sporangium in the case of Z'mesipteris, and less
clearly of Psilotum,{ while a somewhat similar origin seems not improbable for the
plurality of sporangia borne on the sporangiophores of some Sphenophyllee.§ Again,
the view put forward for the spike of Ophioglossum involves similar questions of
increase,|| as also that for the still more complex spike of Helminthostachys, with its
lateral ranks of sporangiophores ; lastly, the sporangiophore of Hquisetum shows a
near analogy in form to these several sporangium-bearing bodies, while the sori of
certain Ferns have a somewhat similar conformation.’ These facts make it necessary
to consider what is the real nature of those bodies which are designated by the non-
committing term “ sporangiophore ” ? In taking up a question of this nature it is necessary to have an open mind as to
“ morphological dignity,” and especially so as the organisms involved are all low in
the scale of vascular plants; their morphology must not be dominated by ideas
derived from Phanerogamic plants. In treating them, their evolutionary position
should be constantly borne in mind; their chief types were laid down before
Angiosperms appeared, and accordingly their morphology should be studied with the
same freedom as if the higher organisms had never existed.