They include the Filices and the Ophioglossacez ; the doubt will be as to the
phylogenetic relation of the latter to the other Pteridophyta, and especially to the Filices,

In the second Memoir of this series (/.c., p. 77) I upheld the view of
JELAKOVSKY, which was thus expressed: “That both the Lycopodiaceew and
Ophioglossaceze sprang from a common stock, which had the simple sporophylls of
the Lycopodiacese. The Lycopods are probably of living plants, the nearest proto-
types of the Ophioglossaceze.” Their affinity by descent was thus recognised with
the strobiloid types rather than with the Filices. Since that Memoir was published,
important facts have been disclosed by Jerrrey* and by Lane,t which add greatly
to the knowledge of the sexual generation and embryology of the family; the
knowledge of the gametophyte of the Lycopods has also been greatly extended by
Brucumannt{ and by Lana.§ The latter has written a clear statement of the
bearing of the new facts upon the relation of the Ophioglossaceze to other Pteridophyta,
pointing out that they favour a more intimate Filicineous affinity. The chief points
brought forward by him as regards the comparison of the gametophyte of the
Ophioglossacere with the homosporous Lycopodiales, are summed up as follows :
“There are no characters, the morphological value of which is attested by constancy
throughout obviously allied groups, indicating affinity between the two; on the
other hand, important points of difference exist in type of symmetry, in the sexual
organs, and in embryogeny.” Comparing them with the Filicales he sums up thus :
« The form of the prothallus, structure of the sexual organs, and, though less clearly,
the embryogeny of the Ophioglossaceze, are such as might be expected in saprophytic
forms derived from prothalli of the general type found in the Filicales, On the other
hand, there appear to be no fundamental points of difference.” He suggests
especially comparison with forms not unlike the existing Marattiacez, though possibly
belonging to a more primitive group, and remarks that evidence from the sporophyte
“would require to be sufficiently clear to override the indications of a Filicineous
affinity afforded by the prothallus. In the author’s opinion such preponderating
evidence has not been advanced.”

The main points on which this conclusion is based are that in the Ophioglossacew
the growth of the prothallus is apical, the spermatozoids are multiciliate, a basal cell
is present in the archegonium, and a suspensor is absent, all which characters they
share with the Filicinese.