Such cross characters are difficult
to harmonise with any phylogenetic theory; on account of them the Equisetinee are
placed in an isolated position, and in the same way, though with less pressing grounds,
a separate position should be accorded to those types which lie in the above table between
the extreme types of Lycopods and Ferns, in proportion as the crossing of the
characters is more or less pronounced,

On this basis the Isoetacee would probably take their place as a sub-series of the
Lycopodiales, Ligulate.t The Psilotacee and Sphenophyllew would constitute a series
of Sphenophyllales, separate from, but related to, the Lycopodiales. The
more aloof than
the latter from the Lycopodiales, but not included in the Filicales, though having a

Ophioglossacea would form an independent series of Ophioglossales,|

relation to them. The actual connection of these series by descent must remain open,
and it is quite possible that some or all of them may have originated along distinct

* ‘Studies,’ IV., p. 127-8.

+ Considerable importance is attached by Jerrrey and by LANG to the presence or absence of the basal
cell of the archegonium as a comparative feature, and their view is based on the constancy of this character
in Lycopods and Ferns ; but in Aquisetum (CAMPBELL, ‘ Mosses and Ferns,’ p. 430) “usually, but not always,
no basal cell is formed.” Again, in Lycopodium the biciliate form of spermatozoid is not constant: there
may be three cilia. (BRUCHMANN, /.c., p. 32; GorpeL, ‘ Organographie,’ p. 887.) These facts may in
some degree affect the comparative value of such characters.

t Compare ENGLEr’s ‘Syllabus,’ p. 65, where this position is assigned to them, though others may
prefer to give them a still more isolated position, as approximating more towards the Filicinean series.

§ The Psilotacew are placed in the Lycopodiales Eligulate in ENGLER’s ‘ Syllabus’ (p. 64).

|| Compare ENGLER’s ‘Syllabus,’ p. 63, where they are placed as a third series of the Filicales. I prefer
to give them a position independent of the Ferns altogether. This independence of the Ophioglossales will
harmonise with the anatomical results (FARMER and FREEMAN, ‘ Annals of Botany,’ vol. 13, p. 421-444).