W. G. RIDEWOOD ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE

two facts, taken together, there lies a fascinating suggestion that when the ascending
filaments are not in mutual organic connection the blood circulating in them must
come back again to the gill-axis, and that the intrafilamentar septum serves to keep
the two currents distinct ; whereas when the ascending filaments are united, the blood
passes in one direction only along the filament, either down the descending filament
and up the ascending filament and out into adjacent parts, or the reverse,* and an
intrafilamentar septum is in such case no longer essential, This tempting hypothesis
has not escaped previous writers. MniGAUX, for instance, states that the difference
in the circulation in the gills of the Mytilidés and the Arcadés (62, pp. 226 and 227)
is related to the absence or presence of the intrafilamentar septum, and PELsENEER
(71, p. 245) states even more definitely that the difference “peut s’expliquer par le
fait que le septum a dti disparaitre aussitét que la concrescence, par leur bord
dorsal, des filaments réfiéchis, a permis la communication entre les filaments
successifs.” Kxrttoce (42, p. 408), again, writes: “In forms with a descending
and ascending portion in the filament, and where the latter is not in conerescence
at its extremity with the mantle or neighbouring filaments, the blood must flow out
to the extremity of a filament and then back again, perhaps, however, not taking
exactly the same path. It will be noticed that in gills of this kind the blood space
of the filament is divided by a septum or is greatly flattened out, and shows in section
a long, narrow blood channel.” +

On putting the above hypothesis to the test, one finds that the evidence barely
justifies the generalisation ; for although one may conclude that the intrafilamentar
septum is present when the upper ends of the ascending filaments are in ciliary con-
nection only, yet there are several instances of species having the ends of the filaments
fused up, and yet retaining the septum.