That the grosser
structure of the gill, on which PauL Fiscuer placed so much reliance (Manuel de Conch.) is no criterion
of affinity has been ably exposed by PELSENEER (68, p. 37, and 69, p. 38) in his discussion of the
three Erycinid genera Kellya, Lasea, aud Montacuta, and by MinkGaux (62, pp. 237-238) in his
comparison of Lucina and Diplodonta.


GILLS OF THE LAMELLIBRANCHIA, 185

The Lamellibranchia have ever been a most troublesome group to classify—witness
the inadequacy of such features as the shell, hinge-teeth, ligament, pallial sinus,
fusion of mantle edges, siphons, adductor muscles, otoliths, and nerve ganglia to con-
stitute a reliable basis of taxonomy,*—and an arrangement of genera and families
founded on the features of a single organ must always be accepted with great
reserve. What it is well to aim at, however, is the formation of classificatory tables,
admittedly artificial and based each on a single character, so that the taxonomist of
the future may, by a process of correlation of these tables and a careful weighing of
the respective values of the facts therein laid before him in a compact and readily
assimilable form, arrive at the truth concerning the phylogenetic history of the
Lamellibranchia. In spite of the fact that Daut’s mistrust of the classification of
the Lamellibranchia by their gills was occasioned by an erroneous interpretation of
certain forms ( Vesicomya and Euciroa), | am nevertheless in complete accord with him
in his conclusion “that systems based on a single character, whether gills, siphons,
muscles or what not, are bound to prove unsatisfactory as our knowledge of inter-
mediate types advances ; and that almost any group may have among its members
some which retain archaicisms longer than the rest. In such cases the persistency
of these characteristics should not oblige us to ignore relationships indicated by
other features of the animal. Any permanent classification must necessarily be
ecletic, considering all characters and distinguishing sufficiently between genetic and
adaptive features.”