The structure of the wood is practically identical with that of Agathis and
Araucaria, PrNuatiow,t in a recently published work of considerable importance,
discusses the anatomical resemblance between Cordaites and the Araucaries ; he
concludes that both Agathis and Araucaria, the latter a relatively higher type than
the former,{ are derived from Cordaites. He regards his observations, which are
solely anatomical, as confirmatory “in a very striking manner of the probable
monophyletic origin of Gymnosperms as already expressed by Counrsr.”t

The chief resemblances between Cordaites and the Araucariese are—(i) The
presence of polygonal bordered pits on the tracheal walls ; (ii) a comparatively wide
transition zone between the spiral protoxylem elements and the normal type of
secondary wood; (iii) the form of leaf and the habit of the vegetative shoots in
Cordaites and Agathis.

(i) and (ii) We recognise the obvious agreement between the secondary xylem of
Cordaites and that of the Araucaries, but this may be expressed by the statement
that this particular type of tracheal tissue is known to be of common occurrence
among Palzozoic plants, and probably represents a more primitive design of
conducting tissue than that of the recent genera of Coniferales. In view of this
consideration, and more especially in face of the fact that the less plastic reproductive
organs of Cordaites are far removed from those of the Araucariez, we incline to the
view that PenHaLLow and others have over-estimated the significance of the

- anatomical similarity between the wood of the Paleozoic tree with that of the
Araucarie.

(iii) The resemblance between the leaves of Cordaites to those of Agathis and,
it may be added, to a slightly less extent to certain species of Podocarpus (Sect. :
NagetA) is fairly close as regards external form, but an anatomical comparison
reveals a much less close correspondence. In the vascular bundle of the leaf of
Cordaites the protoxylem is on that side of the xylem next the phloem, as in
Cycadean leaf-bundles; in some species of Cordaites, as in Cycads, the xylem is
mesarch, consisting of both centripetal and centrifugal tracheids, but according

* RENAULT (1879).

+ PENHALLOW (1904), p. 270.

} PENHALLOW (1904), p. 720. See also COULTER (1898).
38D 2


388 MR.