Comparison of the Intracranial Arterial System of Sphenodon with that of other
Types. We owe our knowledge of the encephalic arteries of the Reptilia chiefly to the
works of Corti (1847), Raruke (1856, 1857, 1866), Hormann (1900), and Bepparp
(1905), while BerrHa pE VRrESE (1905) has discussed the general arrangement and
significance of these vessels throughout the vertebrate series, The researches of these
investigators make it possible to institute comparisons with several other reptilian
types. Bepparp (1905) has given a summary of the chief characters of the encephalic
arterial system in the Lacertilia and Ophidia for purposes of comparison with those
of other vertebrates, In the Lacertilia he enumerates eight characters which we may
conveniently take as a basis for comparison with Sphenodon,

1. “The entrance of the vertebral arteries into the anterior spinal marks the end
of the medulla oblongata,” The “ vertebral arteries” of Bepparp being obviously
the same as what I have termed the “arteries of the first spinal nerves” (following
the nomenclature used by Hormann), Sphenodon agrees with the Lacertilia in this
respect.

2. “ The posterior cerebellar arteries are the only conspicuous arteries arising from
the basilar ; they arise at about the middle of the medulla oblongata and behind the
sixth pair of cranial nerves; they are occasionally asymmetrical with each other.”
The “posterior cerebellar” arteries being identical with what I have termed the
“ posterior medullary,” the only difference to be noted in this connection is the very
slight one due to the fact that in Sphenodon the arteries in question arise just in
front of the roots of the sixth nerves.

3. “The anterior bifurcation of the basilar is at a more or less acute angle
according to its position ; the slender anterior cerebellar arteries are invariably given
off from the bifurcated basilar behind the point of origin of the third nerves ; the two
branches of the basilar produced by bifurcation may be inequisized.” In Sphenodon
the two branches of the basilar (= posterior divisions of the internal carotids) are of
equal size and comparatively long. The “anterior cerebellar” (medullary) arteries
come off about half way between the point of bifurcation and the root of the third
nerve. 8

4. “The point of entrance of the carotids is not invariably the same ; it is some-
times in front of and sometimes behind the third pair of nerves.” In Sphenodon it
is in front of the roots of the third pair of nerves.

5, “The artery on each side to the corpus bigeminum sends branches to the

VoL. CC.—B. 3G


410 PROF.