In a later paper, Bouron (:04, p. 408) says of this horizon :
“Speaking generally, it can be traced with the greatest ease over the whole of the
Lower Coal Measure area in Lancashire and onwards into Yorkshire, where, as the
Halifax Hard Bed, it is as readily recognisable as elsewhere.” . . . ‘“ Wherever it
occurs it seams to yield the ‘baum pots’ with their loads of animal remains and the
even more celebrated ‘bullion balls,’ always rich in well-preserved plant tissues.”*

The above quotations are sufficient to make clear the view which is at present
generally accepted by miners and those whose work comes in touch with the mines

* It should, perhaps, be stated that the calcareous masses in the coal are known by several names, viz.,
“coal balls,” “seam nodules,” “ bullions,” or “ plant bullions”; while at the same time the Goniatites
and other marine shells in the roof are constantly found in large concretions known variously as “ roof

nodules,” “baum pots,” “ baum posts,” “ bullions,” and ‘ Goniatite nodules” ; the latter frequently contain
isolated plants among the marine shells, but they are always found in the roof and not in the coal itself. ORIGIN OF THE CALCAREOUS CONCRETIONS KNOWN AS “COAL BALLS.” 171

of the district, as we see once more in the statement made by Lomax (:02): “ As
we all know, there is only one seam of coal in which we find these nodular
concretions.”

The concretionary nature of the coal balls was recognised by the earliest workers,
and the analysis given by Hooker and Bryney (see p. 194) has constantly been quoted
to show that they are mainly composed of carbonate of lime. Very few facts have
been brought forward in order to show how they were formed in the coal, though
several suggestions have been made. The chemistry of the subject was gone
into for the first time by Stocks (:02) in a paper before the Geological Society, in
which he gives fresh analyses both of the coal balls themselves, and of detached
pieces of fossilised wood taken from them. He then gives a detailed account of
experiments and observations on the precipitation of calcium carbonate under
varying conditions, the action of salts of lime and iron on wood, and of bacteria on
mineral solutions, concluding that bacteria played a large part in the anaérobic decay,
and that the minerals were first deposited in the bacterial jelly.