Even when all the factors are taken together, as given in Wi1p’s paper, the argument
is not strong, for it appears that whenever the “ bullions” and roof “ baum pots” are

* Tt may be useful for those whose local knowledge of the beds is not very great to have a tabulated
list of the Lower Coal Measure seams. The following list is drawn from Bowton’s (: 04) paper, in which
he uses the best known names of the coals ;—

* Pasture ” and other thin coals. (Top of series, next coal above being the Arley

Mine, i.e., Middle Coal Measures.)
“Upper Mountain Mine.”
“ Fireclay ” Coal,
“ Bullion ” or “ Upper Foot ” Seam, } These may fuse and form one seam, called the
“ Gannister ” Seam, “Mountain 4-feet ” Seam,
“ Lower Foot ” Seam.
“ Bassey ” Seam,
* First Coal.” (Lowest of series, below comes the Millstone
Grit.)
It must be noted that all through the series are very thin coals (locally thickening in some cases) which
have been ignored,



ORIGIN OF THE CALCAREOUS CONCRETIONS KNOWN AS “COAL BALLS.” 185

found in and above a seam, then it is at once called the “ Bullion” or “ Upper Foot”
Seam, and consequently it is stated that the structures occur only in the one
horizon, viz., the “ Bullion” Seam! In the course of our work certain facts have been discovered, the details of which
are given below, and other facts have been drawn from the literature on the subject,
which appear to demonstrate clearly that this horizon is not so unique as the workers
just quoted have believed it to be. A strong point against their view is found in
the occurrence of identical structures in the Continental and American coals (see p. 191
and fig, 15, Plate 17), which are undoubtedly horizons different from the English
“Bullion Seam.” This alone would be enough to prove that the conditions whic
formed the “coal balls” had occurred more than once in the history of the world, and
that as a consequence all our localities in England where they are found need not
necessarily be of the same age and horizon. New Horizon at Stalybridge-—We discovered a new locality for the true “coal
balls” and “roof nodules” in a small seam at Stalybridge.