He found that rabbits (“ Rohgewicht ”) under 300 grammes
contained 7*1 per cent. of their body weight of blood, 400-600 grammes 6 per cent.,
and 1000-1500 grammes 5°4 per cent. The main result of his experiments, as
expressed by himself on p. 42 of his memoir, is :

“Die Grésse des Blutgehaltes steht in directem Verhiiltniss zur Grésse des
Stoffwechsels.”

“ Jiingere, kleinere Thiere derselben Thierspecies haben wie einen relativ grésseren
Stoffwechsel so auch eine rélativ grissere Blutmenge als ausgewachsene. Es nimmt
sonach die Blutmenge und der Stoffwechsel yon dem Jugendzustande an, d. h. mit
dem steigenden Kérpergewichte, ab.”

This fact, that small animals contain a relatively greater amount of blood than
larger ones of the same species, is in accordance with the results obtained by the
greater number of observers (WeLCKER, RANKE, MALAssez, SHERRINGTON and
CoremaN, etc., although, in expressing their view, they put it in the form that young
animals contain relatively more blood), but it is in absolute disagreement with
Boycorr and Doveuas’ results, as obtained by using HaLpANe and Lorrain Smrra’s
modification of GreHANT and Quinquaup’s CO method. In a preliminary communication, dealing with the blood volume and the total
amount of agglutinin which could be recovered from immunised animals, we
expressed the view that the blood volume of normal healthy rabbits was a function of
the surface and not of the body weight, that is to say that with an increase of the
body weight there is a decrease in the percentage amount of blood per kilo, and
expressed it in the formula

B= Wk,

where B is the blood volume in cubic centimetres, W the weight of the animal in
grammes, and / a constant calculated from the experiments. DETERMINED BY EXPERIMENTS UPON RABBITS, GUINEA-PIGS, AND MICE. 135

The present series of experiments were undertaken to prove that this statement is
a general law as regards mammals, and to give accurate figures for the blood volumes
of those animals which are mostly used in experimental work.