The first commenced as soon as the wings had expanded,
and continued until they were sufficiently hardened to allow the insect to fly strongly,
a period approximately from 9 a.m. to 12 Noon ; then, for four, five, or even six days
there was a very marked unwillingness to pair, and matings during this “period of
refusal” were most exceptional; afterwards the females again became willing
and remained so for three or four days, at the end of which they died, unless they
had succeeded in pairing previously. The general impression was that the first
period of acquiescence was due solely to the fact that the female was not in a position
to resist effectively the advances of the male, while during the second there was an
actual desire on the part of the female to pair. Cases in which a female paired twice
were rare; in fact, they were only noticed on two occasions ; it may, however, be
a more common event in nature, for, in captivity, it was impossible to discover if the
first mating was fertile until too late to attempt others. (See note at end, p. 254.)

A description of an absolutely typical mating may next be of interest, for it shows
that this process in polytes, as in other butterflies, is not the simple affair found in
many moths, in which the male is accepted by the female as soon as he arrives. In
the case under consideration, the female was of the polytes form and was in the first
“period of consent,” and the notes are abstracted directly from the account written
at the time. ‘‘ The male first noticed the female when at rest, and immediately tried
to pair, but was refused, the female flapping her wings to keep him at a distance ;
finally, however, she was knocked off her perch and then hovered in the air in the
typical way, the body being held almost vertical and the wings moving rather slowly
almost in a horizontal plane, so that she appeared to be swaying in the air at the end
of an invisible thread. The male then hovered a few inches below the female, his
wings moving more rapidly and his position practically horizontal ; he usually

turned his back on the female, but sometimes they faced the same way ; at intervals
he rose slightly and collided with the female, rebounding off again to the same
distance.