It has been possible in the case of two of us to make determinations by the carbon
monoxide method over a prolonged period at Oxford (altitude 200 feet), and the
figures obtained not only allowed us to establish a satisfactory average for this
altitude but also serve to indicate the kind of variations from this average which are
found. In the case of Doveias twenty-nine determinations of the total oxygen
capacity* were made between January 20, 1910, and May 29, 1911; in the case of
HaApane fourteen determinations were made between May 31, 1910, and May 26,
1911. In only one experiment in each of these two subjects during these periods did
the observed variations lie outside a value 8 per cent. in excess or deficiency of the
mean, and it is quite possible that such exceptional cases are due to purely chance
errors and are not inherent in the method itself, as there is opportunity for them to
occur since the experiments are somewhat prolonged and involve a considerable
number of separate observations. ‘The true experimental error of the method is bound
in any case to be considerable, for the error of the carmine titration sums with those
of the measurement and analysis of the carbon monoxide.t As was pointed out
by Haupane and Lorrain Suir, the carbon monoxide must certainly unite with
any hemoglobin in the muscles, &c., as well as with that in the blood, and though we
give the value for the total oxygen capacity and calculate the blood volume from it as
if all the hemoglobin were in the blood, this fact should be remembered. All the
figures for the blood volume are therefore too high by an unknown, though probably
not very large, proportion, owing to the inability of the carbon monoxide method to
discriminate between the heemoglobin within and outside the circulation—in the case
of normal rabbits Boycorr and Dovenas found that the hemoglobin left in the
muscles, bone marrow, &e., after washing out the blood-vessels as thoroughly as
possible, was about 7 per cent. of the total amount of hemoglobin in the body. Adding to this the fact that the blood volume is calculated in the HaLpang and
Lorrain Smrra method from the total and the percentage oxygen capacity, and that

* The value accepted by Htrner for the amount of oxygen which combines with one gramme of
hemoglobin is 1°34 c.e., but we prefer to give the equivalent of the hemoglobin in terms of its oxygen
capacity, as that is the value which was directly measured in our experiments.

+ A comparison of the carbon-monoxide method with WELCKER’s method on rabbits, as well as the
determination by the carbon-monoxide method of quantities of blood abstracted from, or transfused into,
rabbits will be found in Boycorr and Doveras, ‘Journ. of Path. and Bact., XIIL, p. 256, 1909, and in
Boycort, ‘Journ. of Path. and Bact.,’ XVI, p. 485, 1912.