The typical larval ciliated processes grow out, all relatively long, slender and freely
movable, especially the postero-lateral pair. The brachia have the preoral band
continued over them, and have truncated ends bearing six to eight papille. Sucker well marked with usually two papille on each side of it; posterior part of
larval body becomes disc-like and shows five arm rudiments in crescentic series ; an
certain other starfish (4. vulgaris, Fixup, 23; and A. glacialis, GortTE, 32), may well be related to the

fact that the anterior coelom has had added on to it the task of forming the paired middle and posterior
ccelomic regions (p. 234) in larve which are increasing rapidly in length,



‘THE ADULT STRUCTURE OF THE STARFISH ASTERIAS RUBENS, L. 281

interval (aboral brachiolarian notch) between the antero-dorsal and antero-ventral
arm rudiments (rudiments II and 1),

Ciliation persists from blastula stage onwards, but becomes lessened over general
surface ; ciliated bands are locomotor except transverse portion of preoral band ;
special adoral ciliation consists of peristomal ring and cesophageal loop and acts towards
stomach except on small ventral segment of peristomal ring; surface between the
preoral and postoral bands is a food-gathering area ; buccal cavity and first part of
cesophagus can be emptied by backward flexion of preoral lobe. The Larva (Internal).—T wo enteroccelic pouches, right and left ; hydropore on left
side, opening into left pouch ; an occasional right hydropore ; probable rudiment of
posterior ccelomic outgrowth from stomach entoderm ; enterocceles grow forward,
uniting in preoral lobe, and backwards, covering sides of stomach ; anterior, middle,
and posterior ccelomic regions ; dorsal sac from mesenchyme near mid-dorsal line ;
r.p.c. and lp.c. cut off; ventral horn of /.p.c. crosses to right, opens into 7.m.c. and
grows around rectum ; series of five hydroccele pouches develop in wall of lm.c. ;
dorsal horn of /.p.c. opens into l.m.c. ; l.p.c. gives single outgrowth for pharyngeal
coelom ; alimentary canal shows cesophagus, stomach, intestine, and rectum, probably
at least a fifth of the esophagus being stomodzeal. Metamorphosis (External).—Brachia give temporary attachment ; definite fixation
by sucker through cement formation ; retraction of anterior and middle regions
of larva and of ciliated processes towards left side of larval dise to form oral
surface of starfish; aboral surface from right side of larval disc; aboral notch
between arm rudiments I and II closes to form inter-radius I/II which contains
hydroporic opening and dorsal sac ; part of preoral lobe forms stalk joining disc on
inter-radius I/V side of centre of oral surface ; hydroccele lobes project externally ;
sucker feet develop and first two pairs come into use; stalk becomes slender, drawn
out, and finally ruptured near disc; starfish now free, sucker and stalk being left
behind ; adult mouth appears in centre of oral surface, and adult anus aborally in
inter-radius I/V.