HERON-ALLEN: CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE STUDY OF THE

(4) That at certain stages of the life-cycle (as in Arcella) a young individual is
budded off from the aperture of the parent and set free at maturity.

(5) That under certain (possibly fortuitous) circumstances, the protoplasm extruded
from two or more shells mingles, as in ScHAUDINN’s observations, preparatory to the
formation of embryonic shells outside the parent as described by Lister.

(6) That the phenomenon hitherto described as “ plastogamy” in the Foraminifera
is generally attributable to one or other of these last two processes. VII. On some Newty Oxservep PHENOMENA IN THE Lire-History or THe Genus
CYMBALOPORA.

(a) On Cymbalopora bulloides, its Internal Structure and Variations,

The late Sir Joun Murray,!' who probably devoted more attention and thought to
the study of the pelagic Foraminifera than any other marine biologist, pointed out
that ‘the pelagic Foraminifera play a most important role in the economy of the
present ocean as well as in the geological history of our planet,” calling attention to
the fact that their dead shells account for a deposit of unknown thickness covering
approximately fifty millions of square miles of the floor of the existing oceans, over
90 per cent. of which consists of carbonate of lime derived from their dead shells.*
The study of the pelagic Foraminifera is one involving questions of the highest oceano-
graphical importance, and the problems involved in their distribution are far from
being solved at the present day. But among these pelagic forms there is one which
is common in shallow tropical seas, especially in the vicinity of coral islands, whose
life-history presents some features which have not been observed in connection with
any other Foraminifer, and whose protoplasmic body has recently been’ discovered to
be endowed with functional activities never yet observed in the group. Sir JoHn
Murray stated that the most familiar species of the family, Cymbalopora bulloides
(d'Orbigny) (fig. 35), can hardly be regarded asa true pelagic Foraminifer,* but I think
it is made clear by the researches which I am taking this opportunity of recording,
that Cymbalopora bulloides represents a definite pelagic stage of more than one well
marked Rotaline genus, and though it is convenient for purposes of systematisation
to retain the species Cymbalopora bulloides, it is more than probable that the
distinctive feature of a large balloon-shaped, highly perforate, terminal chamber,
connected with the earlier chambers at its peripheral margin, and filled with the

1 See Note, p. 227.

2 M. 1897, P.F., p. 17.

8M. 1913, O., pp. 205-7.