HERON-ALLEN: CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE STUDY OF THE

C. bulloides in all its types. The species, first described by p’OrBiGNy in 1839,
received no further notice until Kari Mésrus devoted a considerable amount of
attention to it under the name of Tretomphalus bulloides from material gathered in
Mauritius and the Seychelles,? and his generic name Tretomphalus (which has not
been retained) called attention for the first time to one of the leading features of the
shell, the depressed “navel” leading to an entosolenian tube, which occupies the
centre of the terminal (or balloon). chamber, among the coarse and characteristic
perforations, a feature which entirely escaped the attention of p'Orgieny, though
he particularly sought for a definite aperture.’ In many of our Kerimba Archi-
pelago specimens the entosolenian tube terminating inside the float chamber is
crowned with a kind of “ crown” of more or less highly developed spines (fig. 40). It was Eartanp, in the year 1902, who called attention to the fact that this
umbilical entosolenian tube was not an opening of communication between the
protoplasmic body of the organism and the surrounding medium, but communicated
directly with the corresponding umbilical tube of a lobulated inner chamber which
he described as a “ float-chamber” which, in the vast majority of specimens observed,
is absolutely empty.* A careful examination of a very large number of specimens,
made by the delicate operation of dissecting off, first the outer balloon-chamber
(fig. 41), and then the inner float-chamber (fig. 42), and also by sections of the
whole shell down the median plane (fig. 43), shows that the latter has no perforations
connecting it with the rotaline aboral portion of the shell, and it becomes an
extremely interesting problem whether or not this float-chamber can be filled at will

by the organism with air (or gas) for the purpose of raising it to the surface water
of the ocean, or in turn with water for the purpose of sinking it to the bottom.®

1 Rosalina bulloides, V’Orbigny, “ Foraminiféres” in RAMON DE LA SAGRa’s ‘Histoire Physique,
Naturelle, etc., de l'Te de Cuba,’ Paris, p. 98, Plate 3, figs. 2-5 (1839).

* K. Mostus, “ Beitriige zur Meeresfauna der Insel Mauritius und der Seychellen,” ‘Foraminifera
von Mauritius,’ Berlin, p. 98, Plate 10, figs. 6-9 (1880).

* It must be admitted that this entosolenian tube is often very obscure, and in the small Corny Point
specimens EARLAND often found very great difficulty in establishing the existence of any entosolenian
tube at all.

* E, 1902, C.B., p. 315. “It occupies nearly the whole of the interior of the balloon, in which it
hangs suspended, but is not attached to the inner surface of the balloon in any way. It is attached to
the lower surface of the upper or spiral shell, but it has no direct connection with these upper chambers,
the only opening into its interior consisting of the small tube in the centre of the base discovered by
Mosius.