In the Corny Point specimens, and in
most small shells, it is almost perfectly globular, and exhibits none of those constrictions which are
characteristic of the float-chamber in larger mature shells.” The same remarks may be made with regard
to Sir Joun Murray’s Philippine and Sandwich Islands surface specimens.

° The existence of gas-vacuoles apparently having this object has been established by different
observers in many of the Sarcodina, especially in such forms as Arcella and Difflugia, which exhibit so
many attributes held in common with the Foraminifera, (C. 1901, P., pp. 89, 90.)


BIONOMICS AND REPRODUCTIVE PROCESSES OF THE FORAMINIFERA. 255

It is, however, to be observed that in some instances this float-chamber in turn
is filled with a yellow granular substance which brings the float-chamber into very
prominent relief (as independent of the balloon-chamber) when specimens are mounted
in transparent media (fig. 44). Sir Joun Murray records that among his specimens
not a single one contained ordinary protoplasm such as is found in the shells of other
Foraminifera.'!_ He refers, of course, to the large terminal chamber as a whole, the
dual nature of which did not impress itself upon him, although the figure which he
gives (which had already appeared in Brapy’s monograph*) clearly suggests it
(fig. 45), the rotaline initial portion of the shell being always filled with a deeply
coloured protoplasm. But Sir Jonn Murray also records a very remarkable fact,
that in all his specimens the shells, .e. the terminal chamber, were “filled with
immense broods of minute zodspores, and that these latter spread over the field of
the microscope in a cloud-like swarm when a shell was broken under the cover-glass.*
Before speculating upon the significance of this phenomenon, it may be observed that
the disposition of the float-chamber presents a marked difference in the species
C. milletti. In this species (figs. 36 and 46) the balloon-chamber, instead of being
smooth and coarsely perforate as in the normal type, is strongly wrinkled, and more-
over appears to be slightly constricted into four distinct lobes, as if it had been twice
tied across in the ordinary manner of a soft parcel.* It is very difficult, and frequently
impossible, in this variety to differentiate the float-chamber from the balloon-
chamber ; the lobulate outer wall of the float-chamber adheres closely to the smooth
or wrinkled inner wall of the balloon-chamber, the only open spaces between them
being formed by the independent and somewhat more marked constriction of the
float-chamber lobulations (fig. 47), which, in broken specimens, are frequently seen

1 M. 1897, P.F., p. 20.

2 B. 1884, F.C., p. 639, fig. 20. It is nota little remarkable that the existence of this float-chamber
should have escaped both Dr.