Seen under a high magnification (} inch, 5 mm.) these “wrinkles” are
seen to be due to thickened and curved lines of shell-matter which are adherent
between the inner surface of the balloon-chamber and the outer surface of the float,
but it is not clear to which chamber they belong if they are not homogeneous.? In
Sir Joun Murray’s slides from Honolulu (August, 1875) there are many extremely
hyaline specimens of Cymbalopora milletti, in which there appears no trace of any
duality or distinction between float and balloon in the terminal chamber, which,
though highly lobulate, is only very sparsely “ wrinkled.” It may also be observed
that whereas in the normal type (C. bulloides) the chamberlets which form the
commencement of the shell are invariably Rotaline (tig. 49) {as in Discorbina coneinna
and Discorbina mediterranensis), and, apart from the terminal balloon-chamber, are
indistinguishable from Discorbina, that portion in C. millettd is almost invariably
acervuline (fig. 50), the chambers being heaped into a more or less pronounced cone’
after a small rotaline commencement, which is obscure or plainly marked according
to the individual specimen.* It may also be noted that, whereas in the normal type
there is usually a pronounced constriction where the rotaline portion joins the balloon-
chamber, in C. milletti the junction is almost invariably flush with the immediately
broadening balloon (fig. 50). For this reason I am inclined to express the opinion
that Discorbina concinna, Brady (which Brapy himself considered was “ possibly

only the immature or arrested stage of some better known species ”*), is, as a fact,
the immature or arrested stage of Cymbalopora bulloides, whilst Discorbina
mediterranensis (d’Orbigny) is the immature or arrested stage of C. milletti, passing
through a stage which has been separated and diagnosed as Cymbalopora poeyt
(d’Orbigny), or (to put it in another way) that Discorbina concinna and Discorbina
mediterranensis, at some stage in their life-history, proceed to the formation of the
balloon- and float-chambers with a view to adapting themselves to a pelagic existence,” .

1 These triangular “ struts” appear occasionally to be set free in the interior of the float-chamber, as in
the figure, by the growth of the chamber beyond them.

* One of our specimens shows what appears to be a young four or five chambered Rotaline embryo
inside the float, and many small highly transparent spherical bodies equalling in diameter a single
chamber of the young (1) individual (fig. 51). For reasons, however, presently to be set forth I hesitate
to say that these are embryonal forms, though the apparently perfect embryo-shell contains a small dark
mass which may represent the nucleus. Somewhat similar dark masses are visible on other portions of
the interior of the balloon, especially between the lobes of the float, but I am inclined to think that these
are metaplastic bodies of various kinds—stercomes ¢ or symbionts !—but possibly nuclei.

3 It must be noted that there is also a somewhat rare form of the typical C. bulloides in which, as
EarLanp has recorded (E. 1902, C.B., p, 318, Plate 16, figs. 3, 4), “the early chambers are... . 80
largely developed that the balloon is entirely hidden when the spiral portion is uppermost.”

4B. 1884, F.C., p. 646.

5 Cf.