and of greater numbers of individuals, of the species Patellina corrugata and
Discorbina globularis ;° a similar association of several individuals has been observed
(and recorded) by many writers on the Foraminifera, and particularly by Earnanp
in the species Discorbina parisiensis among the littoral Foraminifera of Bognor® and
by Earnanp and myself jointly, in this genus and others, in the material dredged
from moderate depths in the Kerimba Archipelago by Dr. J. J. Srwpson* (fig. 11). I may say at once that, for reasons that will presently appear, I do not regard this
“association ” of pairs of individuals as a sexual union of two individuals, and I do
not consider that the association of several individuals as observed by ScHAUDINN in
Patellina corrugata, and by EaRuAnp and myself in Discorbinee of various species, to
be either sexual, or to have any relation to the frequently observed association of
single pairs, which, as will be seen, I consider to afford evidence of an entirely
different reproductive process. EARLAND, in his paper on the Bognor Foraminifera,
records three facts which in my opinion support this contention ; (1) that the apertures
do not necessarily coincide, and that in a great number of instances the edges overlap,
or one specimen is set to one side of the vertical axis of the other specimen ; (2) that
sometimes three, four or more specimens are united in the same more or less
asymmetrical manner; (8) that in many instances the “associated” specimens
represent varying types. In ScHaupmyy’s well known figure ((oe. cit., p. 185) the
plastogamic pair are set in a similarly eccentric manner to one another, and he points
out that the formation of the young shells from amcebule takes place from the
cytoplasm of the parent shells after it has been extruded into the deep cavity (or
Nabelhohle) formed by the more or less exact coincidence of the deep umbilical
depressions which are characteristic of Patellina corrugata. Now, regard being had
to the observations of Lister already referred to,® it seems to me, if not clearly
demonstrated, at least very probable that in such cases as this, the amcebule have

‘ In drafting this paper I hesitated long whether or not to make use of the word “ association ” instead
of the word “duplication.”