If this condition is compared with that in a Cynognathid, it will be seen that the
undoubted reptilian pterygoid of that type is extremely similar in its relations to
the surrounding bones. It covers the ventral surface of the basipterygoid process,
has a long suture with the lateral edge of the median vomer, forms much of the roof
and side wall of the posterior end of the ductus nasopharyngeus, is in contact with
the palatine laterally and the epipterygoid posteriorly. The chief difference is that in the reptile the palatine does not extend so far back ;
as it is known from paleontological evidence in Therapsids (and crocodiles) and from
developmental evidence in mammals that the secondary palate closes from before
backwards, and as the posterior nares in both monotremes have an extreme caudal

g position, which is almost certainly due to their (primarily ant-eating?) habits, this
g difference is really one of no importance.

rs If thé course of the palatine branch of the seventh nerve in Diademodon which
= I have arrived at above be a true one, then we have a very remarkable resemblance
& between that type and Echidna, in which the nerve runs along the ventral surface
aq of the posterior part of the bone and then passes through a foramen to its dorsal
r surface,

< The superficial differences between the pterygoids of the two types are all simply
B due to the extreme distinction of shape of their skulls, one a small-brained type with
q a very tropibasic skull, the other a very large-brained type with a platybasie skull.

7 From these resemblances I am driven to conclude that the pterygoid of mono-
; tremes, originally discovered by Gaupp, and which he has shown to be homologous
: with the mammalian pterygoid, is actually the homologue of the reptilian pterygoid.

3 If I understand his position rightly, Gaurr founds his objection to recognising in
H the mammalian pterygoid the true descendant of that of reptiles on the following
: two facts :—

¢ * 1. That the reptilian pterygoid is developed in connection with the pars palatina
3 of the palato-quadrate cartilage, whilst the mammalian pterygoid constantly lies on

the base of the neural skull. VOL, CCVII,.—B. 3 8B


352 MR.