Im wesentlichen zeigt aber das Gebilde den Bau der Schilddriise.”
Our own observations on the ultimobranchial bodies of Ornithorhynchus are in
essential agreement with those of Maurer for Echidna. Vesicles containing a colloid-
like substance and varying somewhat in size and in the detailed characters of their
walls are present but are not very abundant in our material, the main mass of the
gland consisting of spherical masses of compactly arranged epithelial cells (solid acini). With reference to the above mentioned “colloid,” Grosser (15, p. 339) remarks:
“ doch ist das Kolloid nur nach seiner Firbbarkeit identifiziert, und wir miissen heute
annehmen, dass jedes liinger stagnierende eiweisshaltige Sekret die firberische
Kolloidreaktion gibt (Konn, ERpHErm).”

Even so, it remains to be shown that the substance in question is not colloid, and,
until that is done, we prefer to regard the facts above set forth as affording support
to the view that in the higher mammals the ultimobranchial bodies participate in some
degree in the formation of the lateral lobes of the thyroid. This latter view receives its strongest support from the investigations of Simon,
set forth in an important paper (55) published in 1896 and which in our view has not
received from subsequent writers the attention it deserves. Srmon studied the
evolution of the ultimobranchial bodies, or lateral thyroid primordia as he termed
them, in a representative series of embryos of Eutheria (including Rabbit, Guinea-
pig, Calf, Sheep, Dog, Cat, Pig) and arrives at the conclusion that the lateral thyroid
primordium, after active multiplication of its elements, gives origin to epithelial cords
which, remaining distinct from those of the thyroid, become transformed into thyroid
vesicles, He distinguishes two periods in the developmental history of the lateral
primordia after they have come into relationship with the lateral lobes of the median
primordium and characterises them as follows, to quote his own words (Conclusions,
p. 140) :-—

“(A) La premiere, dite d’activité, est caractérisée par ce fait qu’aprés avoir subi


THE THYMUS, EPITHELIAL BODIES, AND THYROID IN THE MARSUPIALIA. 71

un bourgeonnement actif, l’ébauche latérale se divise dans ses assises externes en
cordons ou lobules qui ne s’anastomosent pas avec ceux de I’ébauche médiane,
contrairement 4 l’opinion de Born, Sirepa, KastscHenKo, Pierson.