In its early neanastic stages,
P. plantaris has, generally, the characters of an ephebastie P. calceata (which is,
therefore, the morphic prefiguration of these stages; see Buckman, 1892, p. 315),
and in its later neanastic stages the characters of P. solearis with a more advanced
intraterminal front-wall. P. somptingensis.—A specimen (British Museum, D, 28747) shows the ancestroecium
though poorly preserved. In passing from the ancestreecium to the neanastic cecia,
(b) the size of the cecium increases, (c) the shape of the cecium passes from more
parallel-sided to more elliptical (compare the change later), (e) the intraterminal front-
wall from vaulted becomes flat-topped (correlated with g), (/) the number of costa
increases, (v7) the pelmata retreat further from the middle line, and secondary and
possibly tertiary pelmata (at any rate tertiary perforations in the middle line of fusion)
occur ; in the ancestrcecium the primary pelmata are not far removed from the median
area of fusion, and a line of perforations is already present. 7.e., the ancestroecium, as
far as this character is concerned (and, in fact, generally, though not in one or two
characters, such as the shape of the cecium, which is more primitive, and the
absence of apertural spines, which is more advanced), is the morphic representation
(BuckMAN, 1892, p. 315) of an ephebastie P. solewris further back in its lineage. It
is interesting to note that, apparently, the distal avicularia are already present in the
ancestreecium of P. somptingensis, and the apertural spines already swamped by
secondary tissue. In passing from the neanastic to the ephebastic stages, there is (b) increase in the
size of the wecium ; (c) a change of shape from more elliptical to more parallel-sided,
from comparatively shorter to comparatively longer; (d) the extraterminal front-
wall is blotted out by secondary tissue; (jf) the number of cost increases ;
(g) tertiary pelmata are distinctly developed; (k) the size of the aperture is
comparatively smaller; (/) the sporadic avicularia increase in size, and the distal
avicularia are comparatively larger and more bifurcate.