It must in justice be
admitted that Jackson (1912, p. 57) does not cite the Irregular Echinoidea as
illustrating his law of “localised stages of development”; but he considers the
Diademoida (Centrechinoida) to be bound by it, and by his application of the principle
to such types as Hemicidaris and Salenocidaris gives an interpretation of their
ambulacral structure with which I am unable to agree. Concerning the ambulacrum of Hemicidaris, Jackson says (Joc. cit., p. 56) “ Passing
dorsally [7.e., adapically], we may pass from compound plates into an area of simple
plates which have dropped all attempts at fusion.” Later, in respect of Salenoci-
daris miliaris, he writes :—‘‘ There is a single primary plate ventrally [7.e., adorally],
succeeded by one compound plate, which is again succeeded by simple plates through-
out the area, a case of extreme reversion.” (In both quotations the italics and words
in square brackets are mine.) It seems reasonable to ask for the evidence that the
simple plates of the Hemicidarid ambulacrum ever made any “attempt at fusion,”
actually or phyletically, which attempt they have subsequently “dropped.” To my
mind, JACKSON’s contention in this matter, as in that of Salenocidaris, could be
tenable only on the assumption that development into compound plates is an original
feature of the components—an utterly unwarrantable hypothesis. He himself admits
the obvious fact that newly-formed ambulacrals are typically “ Cidaroid” in character,
and that any degree of complication they may subsequently assume is acquired during
their later individual development,

In phylogeny, as in ‘morphogeny, elaboration in the direction of combination or
reduction first appears in the oldest plates of the areas (the orad plates), and if this
condition does not extend up the area (7.e., adapically) for any considerable distance,
the deduction must surely be drawn that, unless the contrary can be proved, a
relatively primitive stage of evolution is represented. As phylogenetic specialisation
proceeds, elaboration of structure progressively affects the younger ambulacral plates,
until in extreme cases it is impressed upon them at their very inception. The single
primary on the peristome margin of Salenocidaris is in no way antagonistic to this
view.