Fie. 6.—Heptanchus cinereus. Vertical sections through two consecutive centra, showing how the
double cone, found in the vertebree of the caudal fin, passes into the simple ring found in the more
anterior vertebra, To facilitate comparison the centra are represented as of the same size in the
four regions selected. The upper edge of each figure marks the floor of the neural canal, the lower
edge the roof of the hemal canal.

1, vertebra at the level of the hind end of the large anterior lobe of the caudal fin. 2, vertebre
at the root of the caudal fin. 3, vertebre a short distance in front of the caudal fin. 4, vertebra
still farther forward, cloacal region.

a, hyaline cartilage (outer-zone cartilage); 4, fibrous tissue, the greatly elongated intervertebral
ligament ; ¢, fibrous septum, a product of the inner-zone cartilage—it is traversed in the middle
by the remains of the notochord; d, a two-layered circular plate, with fibro-cartilage between the
two layers of the plate; it represents the double cone, antero-posteriorly compressed ; ¢, calcified
ring, the last remnant of the double cone (see also fig. 5, B, e); f, watery jelly, the remains of the
notochord,

The arch-cartilages have calcified tesserse, and the fact that these are better
developed in the caudal than in the trunk region is a further argument in support of
the view that the trunk vertebre are in a degraded, and not in a primitive condition. At the sides of the caudal vertebree, on a horizontal level with the middle of the
centrum, are calcified tracts that lie just external to the membrana elastica externa
(fig. 5, A, p’). These lateral tracts I reyard as having been produced by the
activity of the superficial perichondrium, and not by a fusion of neural and haemal
arch-cartilages ; they are, in fact, intermedialia, but, instead of being bulky wedges
as in the Carchariidse, they are reduced to the form of thin plates, K6uLrkxER’s


VERTEBRAL CENTRA IN SHARKS AND RAYS. 351

longitudinal section (19, Plate 2, fig. 2) is taken horizontally, and shows the plates,
but fig. 6, 1, of the present paper represents a vertical section, and so the plates are
not seen.