BURNE ON SOME PECULIARITIES OF THE

stomach ; a third passes upwards with the portal vein between the upper part of the
two liver lobes and divides into two twigs, one for each lobe of the liver; at this
spot these arteries again form a connection with the rete, so that from this spot the liver
receives blood direct from the lower part of the rete as well as from the branch of the
right arteria intestinalis secundaria that accompanies the portal vein.”

“ The left arteria intestinalis secundaria, after emerging from its rete, takes a similar
course behind the liver lobe of its side and behind the stomach, and then divides into
two. branches, one of which supplies the hinder wall of the stomach, the other forming
the second or left artery of the valvular intestine.”

From this quotation and from the figure attached to his paper, it is evident that, if the
facts are as I have stated them to be, MULLER was mistaken in his observation of the
efferent vessels of the retia in several more or less important particulars. He failed to
notice the interesting partially obsolete connection between the aorta and the efferent
vessels of the rete representing the original roots of the coelio-mesenteric and lieno-gastric
spermatic arteries. He did not realise the double nature of the lieno-gastric vessels
and their symmetrical origin, one from the dorsal flexure of each collecting trunk,
but regarded the ccelio-mesenteric trunk as comparable in origin to the lieno-gastric
and symmetrical with it, whereas in fact this latter vessel is asymmetrical and has no
counterpart given off from the left rete. After careful examination I am unable to confirm the statement made by MULLER
that the hepatic arteries draw some of their blood from the rete. These arteries (fig. 15,
h.a.) rose separately and not by a single trunk, from the main ccelio-mesenteric vessel
and curved outwards to either side upon the dorsal surface of each liver lobe, but so
far as I was able to see received no such contingent from the posterior mesial parts of
each rete as he describes.