In the member of the Liliacez described
by them, namely Galtonia, these investigators found a difference in width between the
small and large chromosomes, although each showed a small range of variation. In the
Aloine the range of variation is much greater, and it was found that there was so much



NESTA FERGUSON: THE ALOINA. 2438

overlapping in the measurements of the widths of small and large chromosomes that all
the results have been treated together in this table, although the small chromosomes
are, on the whole, slightly narrower than the large ones. Possibly they are slightly
deformed, due to the fact that the univalents of the smaller bivalents are already separated
and lie along the length of the spindle at the stage when the larger bivalents lie with their
univalent segments in the equatorial plate. From Table VIT the following results emerge :—

(1) The width of the univalent chromosome at heterotypic metaphase shows a range of
variation, but the most frequent width is 1-5y to 2-Oy, and all the average values for the
width lie between the limits 1-4y. and 2-1p.

(2) The depth measurements from drawings of heterotypic spindles seen in profile
give 1-5y as the most frequent value for this dimension.

(3) Where the univalent chromosomes were closely pressed together or twisted about
each other so that the width of the univalent segments could not clearly be seen, the width
of the closely paired univalents was measured and, as might be expected from the fact
that the degree of association varies, there is considerable variation in the value of the
width, but on the whole the most frequent bivalent width is a little less than double the
univalent width in the same species.

(4) Whenever there is a release between the longitudinally associated chromosomes or
portions of chromosomes there is a readjustment of shape in the chromosomes. Thus
the closely associated pairs of univalents in any one species show a width less than twice
the width of the univalents in the same species when the lateral association is broken and
the univalents lie separately.