Lymphatics: dotted ; “ fine” vessels: black ; hypobranchial artery : cross-hatched.

the coracoid branch of the hypobranchial artery, outwards and dorsal, between the
pericardium and the pelvic and trunk muscles that arise from the clavicles, to the joint
that unites the pelvis to the pectoral arch. Here it enters the wall of the great pectoral
lymph sinus that runs along the mesial border of the clavicle, and, passing dorsal to the
pelvis, continues back in the wall of this sinus in close association with the coracoid
artery and vein to the junction of this artery with the subclavian upon the inner surface
of the ascending arm of the clavicle. :
At this point. close to the coracoid cartilage, it breaks up into a small plexus and gives
origin to numerous branches. Three of these (fig. 6g, h, 7) are larger than the rest and
form, in fact, divergent terminal divisions of the main stem: (1) (fig. 6, h), a vessel


DUCTLESS GLANDS AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM OF ANGLER FISH. 33

that passes outwards, through the coracoid to the outer side of the articulation
between the shoulder girdle and the fin, and, passing distally between the pterygio-
phores, enters the outer margin of the base of the fin, to traverse the canal
embraced by the bifurcated ends of the fin rays, and unites with the second
division in an arcade (fig. 6, pet.l) similar to that described above in connection with
the pelvic fin. At the point where this first division of the coracoid vessel emerges from the joint
between shoulder girdle and fin, it gives off a large branch (figs. 6, 9, &) that spreads
out over the dorsal surface of the hinder end of the gill chamber and in the subdermal
tissues of the fin, and, in addition, sends forward a strong branch along the thymic artery
(fig. 9, 1).

(2) The second division (fig. 6, 7) forms the mesial arm of the arcade just described. It passes from the plexus formed by the breaking up of the main coracoid vessel along
the mesial and ventral surfaces of the fin, and enters the canal between the bases of the
fin rays at its inner extremity, to become continuous with division 1 (h).