The capsular and cranial cavities of Selachians communicate by a
wide fenestra during the embryonic stages, but a complete medial wall of cartilage is
later developed, and only a small foramen remains for the passage of the auditory
nerve (SEWERTZOFF, 1897, 1899). Contrary to the opinion expressed by Kiyprep (1919, p. 16) and others, I conclude
that the conditions found in Amia, Lepidosteus and Teleosts have been derived
phylogenetically from a condition in which a more or less complete wall separated
the cranial cavity from that of the capsule. The reduction of this wall appears to
have been brought about by the inward expansion of the membranous labyrinth,
and the fact that in bony fishes this expansion takes place at a comparatively
early stage would account for the non-appearance of a medial cartilaginous wall
at any period of the ontogeny.§ The general narrowing of the cranium in bony
fishes may have been a second factor with which the reduction of the inner wall is
correlated. The cartilaginous semicircular septa, varying from one to three in number, are present
in all bony fishes.|| The lateral septum always occupies a vertical position, but the
anterior and posterior septa may be either horizontal or oblique.

* Both the parotic process and parotic ridge are well developed in young and adult Polypterus (Bupcerr,
1902—“ pterotic ridge’; Lenn, 1918).

+ The development of a parotic ridge above the hyomandibular is apparently of little importance :
it is well developed in the larval Amiurus (Krvprep, 1919, p. 16), but is entirely wanting in the larval
Ictalurus, a closely related genus (RypER, 1887, p. 541).

{ For further notes on the parotie ridge in various fishes see ALLIs (1920—* Spheno-pterotic
ridge ”’),

§ The inward expansion of the labyrinth would also explain the fact that a portion of the auditory organ
is supported by the parachordal in some fishes.

|| Three septa are all fully chondrified in Acipenser, Polypterus, Amia, Lepidosteus, Clupea, Galaxias
Salmo, Gymnarchus, Amiurus, Sebastes, Pleuronectes and Solea ; in Anguilla, Syngnathus, Siphonostoma,
Gadus, Cyclopterus and Gasterosteus the anterior septum is absent at all stages of development. In a young
Gobius, and in a Callionymus of 10 mm., I find only the lateral semicircular septum chondrified, the anterior
being absent and the posterior composed of fibrous connective tissue.