The
individual stems may be the result of repeated forking (a point which needs to be
ascertained), but many of them emerge as lateral branches from the sides of the trunk.

(ii) Possible Existence of a‘ False Stem” in C. antiqua and C. kirgisica—The discovery
of a complex type of stem-organisation in C. australis naturally raises the question as
to what was the nature of the stem in the European and Siberian species, C. antiqua
and C. kirgisica. There can be no doubt that they were also tree-ferns. The leaf-
bearing axes of these forms are still unknown, but the structure of the outer zone of
the trunk, with its persistent petioles, aphlebixe and interstitial adventitious roots,

* Sropes (1915), p. 15, text-fig. 5.
} Scuoure (1906).
t Sewarp and Forp (1903), p, 239 ; Curisr (1897), p. 333; Currst (1910), pp. 247-248, 259,


FROM THE CARBONIFEROUS ROCKS OF AUSTRALIA. 29

is essentially the same* as in the Australian species ; whether a “ false stem ’’ existed
in these species or whether the stem was simple, as in the Osmundacew, can only be
shown by the discovery of more complete specimens.

(iii) Geographical Distribution —One of the most interesting facts about C. australis
is its isolated geographical position, which extends the range of distribution, not only
of the genus but of the family Zygopteridew, far away into the southern hemisphere. FrIsTMANTEL’s} comprehensive work on the fossil flora of Eastern Australia, followed
by that of several recent authors, has proved the existence, in the Carboniferous rocks
of New South Wales, of a considerable flora showing clear affinities with European
types of a corresponding age. Similar evidence of a fundamental uniformity of the
earlier Carboniferous flora has gradually accumulated from several other directions
in the southern hemisphere.{ The discovery of an Australian species of Clepsydropsis,
a genus previously known only from allied species in Central Europe and Siberia, affords
further testimony that before the advent of the Glossopteris flora, towards the close
of the Carboniferous period, there was no barrier to prevent the free migration of land
plants between the northern and the southern hemispheres.

(iv) The probable Habitat of C. australis ——Incidentally we may add that if the habit
and structure of a plant can be relied upon as an index of its natural surroundings, we
would probably have to picture both Tempskya and C. australis characteristically
as inhabitants of dense and humid forests, similar to the native haunts of our modern
tree-ferns.