This decline is,
as for other tissues, not instantaneous, but gradual, and characterised by gradually
increasing sluggishness, first, of spontaneous action, and secondly, of responsive action. The complete elimination of the temperature factor did not enter into the plan of our
observations, and we give no experiments in support of the above general proposition,
although we have observations sufficient to justify our assertion of it as of an
experienced fact, not merely of an untested truism. The fact which we desired to
clearly demonstrate is the great sluggishness of action to which the Mammalian heart
may be reduced before action is extinguished ; so that its processes, normally far more
rapid than those of the cold-blooded heart, become so protracted as not only to equal,
but to exceed, the latter in slowness of accomplishment. Our observations furnished
the demonstration, and clearly show that the Mammalian heart is more susceptible to
differences of temperature than is that of the Frog.*

Of the statements regarding the three features referred to above, viz., length of
systole, length of latent period, degree of excitability, the first has been considered in
§ 1; with regard to the third, we have no evidence to give beyond the statement that

- 27°—0'9 }
24°—1 .
eapeae Burpon Sanderson,
21°13 | : '
18°16 Journal of Physiology,
Normal duration of Frog’s systole at 15°—1-9 Vol 2) \p. 38%
12°—2'1

Frog’s systole ten times as long at 3° to 7° as at 18° to 20°. Hermann, vol. 4, p. 372,


ACTION OF THE EXCISED MAMMALIAN HEART. 225

we could roughly estimate excitability by the greater or less energy with which a
mechanical stimulus is required to be applied to provoke contraction ; with what we
have termed “acute” excitability, the lightest superficial touch was sufficient to
discharge a beat; with “ obtuse” excitability, pricking or scratching with a needle
was required to produce any effect ; between these two extremes we could and did
test gradations which justified our statement.