Here the bundles of the transverse fibres of the splenium (Spl.) are seen, and in
front of them is a narrow band of fibres from the body of the fornix descending to
the apex of the splenium, where they become more or less transverse in direction. They continue to pass down along the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle,
being bounded in front by the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, and behind by the
commencing fascia dentata of the gyrus hippocampi. During this time the trans-

qi verse fibres of the splenium alter in shape, and are readily distinguished from the
descending fibres of the fornix by their marked transversely-cut appearance, and by
the fact that they are more deeply stained (by Weicert’s method) (fig. 10, F.J/.,
Zand F'J.). ,
A The posterior pillar of the fornix continues descending, and finally joins the
Sfimbria of the cornu Ammonis (fig. 11, Fimb.), the fibres still preserving their
5 peculiarity of being stained a lighter colour (by Wer1cert’s method) than the adjacent
E'fibres of the splenium.
2 Ata point half way down the descending cornu the fimbria (fig. 11, Fimb.) appears
Eto form a fusiform enlargement lying behind the lower part of the corpus geniculatum
‘Sexternum (cg.e.). The part of the fimbria beyond this enlargement is very narrow,
where it is known as the alveus (Alv.), while the part above this becomes much
‘B increased so as to be the same size throughout (fig. 12, Fumb.).*
3 The fibres of the tenia hippocampi have a distinctly longitudinal direction and are
exactly parallel to the posterior curved surface of the corpus geniculatum externum,
‘from which it is separated by the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. S The tenia hippocampi, or the fimbria, is prolonged downwards along the whole
& extent of the free margin of the fascia dentata of the gyrus hippocampi to the lower
=| end of the ventricie, and then over the extreme anterior end of the cornu Ammonis,
"3 when it is known as the alveus (figs. 11, 12, Alv.), and it here separates this gyrus
from the hippocampal or pyriform lobule (7.Z.) with the nucleus amygdalie.
@ ‘The relation of the tenia to the cortex of the hippocampal convolution must now
be described, beginning with the lowest part.