Jonson also describes how the
cells of this condensation early “‘ become arranged in a radial manner about a central
point of lumen, and assume the form of a small somite.” It is difficult to see how this
can be reconciled with Rex’s suggestion that the expanded multipartite cavity of
later stages is related ventrally “to the dorsal arm of the tubular splanchnocoel of
the mandibular arch ” (1924), while the dorsal part “‘ encloses a small portion of the
terminal cavity.”

A favourite suggestion of those who accept the origin of the eye-muscles from dorsal
mesoderm is that they are not strictly homologous with somites, but rather represent
the results of expansion in the prootic region. “ Professor Kingsbury has suggested
that the expansion of the mesoderm occurring coincident with the expansion of the
head may conceivably take two forms—either epithelial or mesenchymal. If the
expansion is epithelial in nature, head-cavities are the result.” (ADELMANN, 1926.)
ADELMANN’S analysis of the growth processes in the prootic region clearly shows that
expansion plays a crucial part in determining the development of the eye-muscle
rudiments and especially of the anterior head-cavity. It is perfectly true that the
facts of eye-muscle development in birds do not immediately suggest the somitic
nature of the rudiments, but it is equally true that in comparative studies the only
sound method of interpretation is to proceed from the lower and simpler forms to
the higher and more complex. Now, it is well known that in the lower vertebrates
the eye-muscle rudiments approach much more closely to the conditions of somites ;
in Cyclostomes, in fact, the metotic somites form a continuous series with the three
prootic somites (Koxtrzorr, 1901; and see also Bracuet, 1921, p. 362). It would
therefore seem that the burden of proof must rest on those who would deny the somitic
nature of the eye-muscle rudiments in the higher forms—a burden which appears never
to have been adequately sustained.