This assumption, however, appears to rest upon the indirect
evidence of thalamo-cortical connections. On the basis of experimental work by von Monaxow and Mrnxowsk1, the
conception has arisen that the lateral nucleus is related to the “leg area” of the
central convolutions, while the ventral nucleus is related to the ‘arm area.”
PowtAk (1932) believes that it is ‘‘ probable that the afferent sensory tracts attain
all parts of the lateral nucleus including the dorsal portion close to the zonal
stratum.”’ But this statement is apparently made on the basis of an extensive
intra-thalamic lesion (his experiment No. 2) in which far more than the fillet system
has been involved. Later in his monograph (p. 70) PottaK makes the more definite
statement that the afferent tracts from the spinal cord, bulb, pons, and cerebellum
spread “almost over the entire ventro-lateral and dorso-lateral nucleus” and
“* the lateral nucleus receives afferent fibres in its entire transverse extent or width.”
On p. 72, again, he affirms that “ it is at least the lateral nucleus of the thalamus in
its entire dorso-ventral and medio-lateral extent situated between both medullary
lamine which is the terminal station for the lower ascending somatic sensory tracts
as well as the point of departure of the uppermost link of the afferent somatic sensory
system, the thalamo-cortical radiation.” The fact remains, however, that in
experiments in which the lesion has been confined to the fillet system, degenerated
fibres have not hitherto been traced to the lateral nucleus of the thalamus, and this
evidence is in accordance with the pictures afforded by a study of Weigert sections
of normal mammalian brains. O. Vocr (1906) records that three weeks after a
lesion affecting the post-central gyrus, secondary fibre degeneration is confined to
his nucleus va (main part of pars externa of the ventral nucleus), while after a similar
lesion in the precentral gyrus, the degeneration is found in the thalamus immediately
oral of va (i.e., in the rostral end of the pars externa of the ventral nucleus).