Possibly
the points of difference between Forcur’s observations and my own are not so
numerous as would appear from what has just been said, as his schematic repre-
sentation, in order to show that each nerve root supplies muscles on both the anterior
and posterior surface of the limb leads to slight confusion as to whether certain of the
muscles are meant to be represented in certain roots; notably is this the case with
regard to the deltoid, which I find it difficult to imagine as represented in the eighth
cervical, much less the first dorsal nerve root. Corollary to Part IIT,—The question which next arose for consideration was whether
or no a single bundle of fibres representing a single simple movement ever remains
distinct in a nerve root during its course to the muscles it supplies without inos-
culating with other nerve fibres. That each bundle does remain distinct is, I think,
proved by the following facts :—-

(a.) If a bundle of nerve fibres is separated in a nerve root, it can, in the Dog, be
followed by dissection through the plexus and along the course of the nerve in which
it runs, to its termination either in a muscle or in the skin.*

(v.) If a bundle thus isolated in a nerve root be stimulated a simple movement
results and not merely the combined movement in only a lessened degree proportional
to the diminished number of nerve fibres stimulated.

* Of, Herrincuam, Parerson, é&e., loc. cit. INTO THE FORMATION OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF THE DOG. 55

(c.) If a minimal stimulus be used one can localize different movements in different
parts of the circumference of the peripheral nerve just as has been shown above to be
possible in exciting a nerve root.

(d.) If the musculo-cutaneous be divided below the point where it gives off the
twig to the median, and if the trunk of the nerve, above the point where the twig
is given off, be stimulated, the pronator radii teres muscle contracts, and it alone. At first I was under the impression that the extensor carpi radialis was the muscle
that contracted, but more careful separation of the two muscles by dissection showed
that the movement in the latter muscle was due to traction on it owing to its
connections with the adjacent pronator.

(e.) If a root be divided the degeneration which results in the various nerves
receiving” fibres from the root is not scattered but is limited to distinct strands
sharply defined.