He gives a figure of a tooth of Microlestes, and with reference to it
says “‘it must be insisted that the resemblance between the Multituberculate- and the
Ornithorhynchus-teeth is of the most general character, and that the two are certainly
widely separated genetically, even if we do admit that they appear to possess a relation-
ship nearer to each other than to any other known groups of mammals”’. Osporn (1907), commenting on Cope’s multituberculate theory, says on p. 105,
“*When critically examined, however, the molars of Ornithorhynchus are found to be
very degenerate both in structure and in pattern, and it cannot truly be said that they
actually resemble those of any Multituberculate in the strict sense, because all the
higher Multituberculates exhibit an extremely regular mechanical disposition of the
cusps, whereas in this living Monotreme the cusps are extremely irregular.” The only
origin which OsBorn suggests is the very tentative one of derivation from a tritubercular
type: p. 107, “It does not appear that the Ornithorhynchus molars can be cited as


MORPHOLOGY OF THE TEETH OF ORNITHORHYNCHUS 401

evidence either for or against the tritubercular theory because of the evidently secondary
and largely degenerative changes which they have undergone; they bear evidence of
descent from a more primitive regularly cuspidate condition.”’ A little later he goes
on: “It is especially noteworthy (1) that unlike the Multituberculates the lower molars

reverse the pattern of the upper molars (as in tritubercular teeth generally) and (2) that
the highest cusps are on the inner side of the upper molars and on the outer side of the

lower molars. So far as these facts are of value they would support the hypothesis that

these are degenerate tritubercular teeth.” The last sentence is in italics. AMEGHINO (1908) attempted to relate the monotremes to the edentates. ABEL (1926) has recently emphasized the relationship of the monotremes to the
multituberculates in his description of Desmostylus, a Miocene mammal, which he
claims is related to both these groups.