As regards the explanation of the abnormally directed current of rest observed


PROPERTIES OF THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL. 339

- often immediately after putting up the preparation, and especially in Eels fatigued in
the process of capture, it is possible that either or both of two causes may contribute
to its production : (i.) injury to the inner surface during removal tending to produce
an outgoing current ; (ii.) depression of epidermic activity from fatigue, or “shock” of
removal, causing a temporary diminution in the E.M.F. of the normal ingoing current. Two contacts upon the outer surface will often give evidence of difference of
potential, but I have never read more than ‘0012D, about one-fifth of the average
E.M.F. between inner and outer surface. This difference between two points on the
outer surface is to be attributed to an unequal distribution of secreting elements

a (especially the “ kolben”) often observed in microscopic sections,

“ Mechanical stimulation in the region of one of the externally placed electrodes

2 causes an increase of the negativity of that electrode (see p. 359), a fact much against

2 the mucin-metamorphosis theory of origin of E.M.F.

& The fact of proximity of an electrode to a gland mass favouring its negativity is

Sdemonstrable on the outer surface of the skin of the Toad, where with two thread

electrodes it is found that there is greater difference of potential when one is on a

e gland wart” and the other between two, than when both are over glands. Here,

sphowever, mechanical stimulation leads to diminution of negativity.

= ‘Two points on the inner surface of the skin of the Eel show no appreciable difference

s of potential,

Tam of opinion, therefore, that it is probable that the source of the E.M.F. of the

-2eurrent of rest of the skin of the Eel is in the secretory activity of its unicellular

2 glands.—March 2, 1893.]

a
ie}

Ss

3 Action of Carponic Acitp Gas.

é
= If, as would appear to be probable, the E.M.F. of the current of rest of the skin of
& the Eel, is the result of secretory processes occurring in its glandular elements instead
7g of a “ mucin-metamorphose ” of the ordinary epidermic cells, it should be possible by
3 experimental treatment to obtain increments and decrements of the E.M.F. according
as the active processes are stimulated or depressed. The first experiments in this
£ direction were made with carbonic acid gas, ENGELMANN (13) obtained enormous
falls of the E.M.F. of the skin of the Frog by the use of this reagent, and also saw
that upon replacing the CO, by air the original level of potential was rapidly regained.