Extract freed from
proteid by saturation with ammonium sulphate, evaporated with HNO, to dryness
and alcoholic soda added, reddish-violet reaction, presence of atropine. The abolition of the excitatory variation by atropine lends considerable support to

the glandular hypothesis of origin of its E.M.F.

: Exclusion of the Excitatory Variation by Narcotisation.

< It has been seen that by means of CO, and also by the vapour of chloroform, the
S negativity of the outer surface of the skin of the Eel may be diminished ; while, by
8 electrical, thermic, and mechanical stimulation it may be increased, so that, according
€ to the sign of the outer surface of the skin at the moment that it is the subject of
g.experiment, a variation is induced which, in the normal state of onter surface negative
& to inner, is negative with the depressants and positive with excitation ; while, should
< the inner surface be negative to the outer, the reverse is the case.

<. Thus :—

B= Sign of variation.
iS | 3 ee

|
3 CO . | Chloroform. | Excitation.

(3) (a.) Outer surface of skin negative to
a inner surface (normal) . . . - - +

is} (b.) Outer surface of skin positive to | |
= inner surface . = ae af + -

a ~ ieee a a

¢ The fact that in skin with normal direction of rest current, the E.M.F. may be
& brought down to zero by chloroform, and by continued action a reversal of current
8 occasioned, so that the inner surface is negative to the outer, but that recovery to the
& normal is possible upon readmission of air (vide Experiment ©, and Experiment 0) is

very strongly in favour of the source of the E.M.F. of the normal current of rest
@ being in some vital processes going on near the outer surface whose activity can be
temporarily reduced by narcotisation. That it is one and the same set of vital processes that is acted upon, in the direction
of augmentation by excitation, and diminution by the presence of a narcotic, is shown
by the interesting fact that it is possible to narcotise the skin with chloroform
vapour, with accompanying diminution in the negativity of the outer surface, to such
a degree that it absolutely fails to give a positive response to stimulation by elec-
tricity during the continuance of the narcotisation, though removal of the vapour
allows of complete recovery. The following experiment is illustrative of this point in particular :—
MDCCCXCIII.—B, BA



362 PROFESSOR E.