REID ON THE ELECTROMOTIVE

ment O, that, when the E.M.F. of the rest current is reduced nearly to zero by the
action of chloroform vapour, the normal excitatory development of E.M.F. is absent,

It remains now to recapitulate a few of the more important points with reference
to the electromotive properties of the skin of the Eel dealt with in this paper :

1, The assumption that the E.M.F. of the current of rest of the skin of the Fish is
entirely due to epidermic mucin-metamorphosis, and that it is not possible to attribute
it to the presence of glandular elements, is negatived, in the case of the Eel, by the
absence of any such mucinous change in the superficial epidermic cells, and by the
presence of abundance of secretory cells throughout the structure.

2. The existence of considerable differences of potential between two coutacts upon
the outer surface of the skin, and the fact that such electromotive force is capable of
excitatory increase upon mechanical stimulation, coincides with the assumption that
the E.M.F. of the current of rest is the outcome of glandular processes of variable
activity, and is not compatible with the theory of origin of the E.M.F. in mucin-meta-
morphosis.

3. The reductions in the E.M.F. of the normal rest current following exposure of
the skin to carbonic acid gas and to the vapour of chloroform, and the subsequent
recovery upon admission of air, are strong evidence that the origin of the E.M.F. is
in some active vital processes taking place in the skin, and it is reasonable to assume
that these occur in its glandular elements.

4, The demonstration that the E.M.F. of the skin of the Eel undergoes an excita-
tory variation as a result of electrical, thermic, and mechanical stimulation, is in
accordance with what is known to occur in other glandular structures, and the fact
that such excitatory change manifests itself as a positive variation of the current of
rest agrees in the main with the phenomena observed in other cases.

5. The fact that chloroform narcosis excludes the possibility of the excitatory
variation upon stimulation at the same time as it reduces the E.M.F. of the normal
current of rest to zero, supports the assumption that the E.M.F. of the current of
rest and that of the current of action originate in one and the same source.

6. Finally, the reduction of the E.M.F. of the normally directed current of rest by
atropinisation, and the complete absence of any excitatory variation under such
conditions, are facts strongly in favour of the hypothesis that both the E.M.F. of the
current of rest and that of the current of action are from a glandular source.