The asymmetry potentially provides a mechanism to preserve
parapineal has a bilateral origin: from approximately LR coding in downstream circuitry. To address this

28 hpf, P recursor cells from the left and right sides of the hypothesis and determine whether distinct ‘left-derived’
midline in the anterior pineal anlage form a coherent and ‘right-derived’ circuits are maintained downstream

group and begin to migrate towards the left Hb (Concha _f the IPN, future research should determine whether the
et al. 2003). This asymmetric migration represents one of = qIpN and vIPN project to distinct efferent targets.

the earliest signs of asymmetry in the dorsal diencephalon Another aspect of the Hb-IPN connectivity pattern is

(a) Lateralization in the zebrafish epithalamus
By larval stages, several molecular and neuroanatomi-
cal asymmetries distinguish the left and right sides of
the dorsal diencephalon (figure 2).

and is dependent upon fibroblast growth factor signalling. that the convergence of Hb axons onto a unilateral
In zebrafish fgf8 mutants, parapineal cells fail to migrate midline target provides a means for lateralized, asym-
away from the dorsal midline (Regan er al. in press). metric neural processing in the epithalamus to modulate

The larval habenulae also develop several asym- —_ behaviours that require the regulation of bilateral motor

metric features, despite the fact that they display only circuitry on both sides of the midline.

modest LR differences in overall size (the left Hb is

approx. 20% larger than the right; Halpern et al. 2003). (i) Lateralization in circuit microarchitecture

The left habenula develops a greater density of neuropil A recent study in our laboratory used focal electro-
than the right (Concha et al. 2000) and several poration to examine the morphology and connectivity
molecular markers are expressed asymmetrically. of individual habenular projection neurons, which
Especially notable are the related genes, leftover (lov), enabled the organization of the asymmetric Hb-IPN
right-on (ron) and dexter (dex), which are the members circuitry to be analysed at single-cell resolution (Bianco

of the potassium channel tetramerization domain- et al. 2008).

containing family (Gamse er al. 2003, 2005). While This approach led to the identification of two
lov is expressed more strongly on the left, ron and dex _ projection neuron subtypes that have axon terminal
are expressed more extensively in the right Hb. arbours with distinct morphologies and target connec-

By adult stages, the dorsal region of the Hb contains _ tivity (figure 3). Both subtypes are found in both the left
discrete medial and lateral subnuclei that display and right habenula, but in substantially different ratios.
distinct patterns of gene expression and efferent Thus, the vast majority (84%) of left habenular
connectivity (Aizawa et al. 2005).