Llaurens er al. (2009) focus
° on the issue of human handedness, reviewing speci-

brain and behavioural lateralization in animals has fically the li ing leftchanded d
progressed in parallel with explanations of lateraliza- cally the literature concerning lett-handedness an
tion as a natural phenomenon, from its proximate the costs and benefits that influence the conservation of
manifestations to the factors determining its evolution __ ‘8 frequency in the human population. The evolution-
and widespread distribution across vertebrate and Y history and geographical variation of left-handed-
invertebrate species (Vallortigara et al. 1999). In the _2€S8» as witnessed by human palaeoanthropological
and ethological data, suggest that the low frequency of

last decades, thus, an increasing number of studies on ‘
non-human species have been carried out, expanding left-handedness in humans can be explained both by its

our knowledge about the universality of lateralization _likely benefits (i.e. fact that it confers some advantage
in behavioural processes and cognitive tasks, running 1 fighting behaviour due to unpredictability) and by
in parallel with a more and more refined elucidation _‘itS associated costs (i.e. the fact that a number of
of the structural asymmetries that underlie these health problems are consequent to its possession).
differences across the animal kingdom. Evolutionary | Brancucci et al. (2009) keep the focus on human
pressures that brought the emergence of brain and lateralization but shift the attention to functional
behavioural lateralization have been hypothesized and asymmetries of the brain hemispheres. Reviewing the
the functional advantages that this general biological rich literature on social perception including visual,
trait would convey have also been suggested (Andrew auditory and olfactory representations of self and other
et al. 2000; Rogers & Andrew 2002; Vallortigara & individuals, they show that the right-hemispheric
Rogers 2005). lateralization pattern underlying the analysis of

Among a number of advantages, the specialization of | human faces, voices and smells (including the proces-
the two sides of the brain has been supposed to increase sing of pheromones), which is commonly revealed
neural efficiency.