Clear disruptions of development and reserves) and cues about likely future environmental
reproduction have been seen in areas of high pollutant conditions (e.g. time of year). Selection pressures
contamination (e.g Jobling et al. 2002; Milnes er al. over millennia have fine-tuned this coordination.
2008). However, such information is not enough to However, in the face of rapid climate change, the con-
decide what specific levels and durations of exposure cern now is that this coordination may break down,
really pose a threat to wildlife: confounding factors owing to a mismatch between the ‘expected’ and the

include the fact that these pollutants do not occur indi- actual prevailing conditions (Thomas et al. 2004;
vidually, but in myriad combinations, each with Williams et al. 2007). Questions then arise as to how
fluctuating exposure levels and potential for bioaccu- the reproductive success of individuals will be affected

mulation, each chemical may induce a spectrum and how quickly the selection pressures acting on
of responses in a variety of physiological systems populations will force adjustments to the new
and there may be variable sensitivities of different conditions.
organisms at different stages of their life history. While these are relatively straightforward questions,
The problems posed by environmental pollutants per the difficulties in providing answers are well described
se, and their possible synergistic interactions with other in this volume by Bronson (2009) (‘Climate change
systems, including the immune system and disease and seasonal reproduction in mammals’), Lawrence &
susceptibility, are discussed by three articles in this Soame (2009) (‘The endocrine control of reproduc-
volume (Rhind 2009: ‘Anthropogenic pollutants—a tion in nereidae: a new multi-hormonal model with
threat to ecosystem sustainability’, Acevedo-White- implications for their functional role in a changing
house & Duffus 2009: ‘Effects of environmental environment’) and Carey (2009) (The impacts of
change on wildlife health’, Brown et al. 2009: Genetic climate change on the annual cycles of birds).