Emileia sp., which is
now considered to be the inner whorls of a Pseudotoites, and a ‘ Normannites’ which he
identified as ‘ N.’ woodwardi (Crick), but which is now believed to be another species and
not a Normannites. He also discussed the affinities and age of the fauna, which he con-
sidered to be of the Sowerbyi and Sauzei Zones. A reference by me (Arkell 1949, p. 402) in support of Neumayr’s dating to the Humphrie-
sianum Zone was based upon the assumption that the fauna was all of one date, and upon
the following three considerations: (1) The authority of Buckman, Crick and Spath for the
identification of the abundant D. clarkei as Dorsetensia, a genus which in Europe is charac-
teristic of the Humphriesianum Zone; but the new collection has shown that the Australian
forms are closer to Fontannesia, a genus of the Sowerbyi Zone. (2) The reported occurrence
(Neumayr 1885, p. 140; Whitehouse 1924, p. 9) of forms which appeared to belong to
Teloceras, a genus characteristic of the upper part of the Humphriesianum Zone; but the
new collection contains Teloceras-like forms, probably the ones alluded to by Whitehouse,
which are cadicone relatives of Pseudotoites, homoeomorphs of Téeloceras but probably much
earlier; and the fragment identified by Neumayr with T. blagdeni (Sow.) turns out to be
a Pseudotoites. (3) The authority of Spath (1939) that the auriculate stephanoceratids
figured by Crick (woodwardi) and Whitehouse (depressus) are Normannites, a genus which in
Europe belongs overwhelmingly to the Humphriesianum Zone; but these are now believed
to be more closely related to Otoztes as supposed by Whitehouse, and in fact to be ancestral
to true Otoites of the Sauzei Zone, and (at least depressus) close to the dwarf subgenus
Trilobiticeras of the early Sowerbyi Zone (Discites Subzone). All three lines of evidence were, therefore, deceptive. As indicated by the Sonninidae,
the main Newmarracarra Limestone fauna is of the age of the Sowerbyi Zone, possibly
but doubtfully including the Sauzei Zone.