If there be but little quickening the contraction
volume of the ventricles is increased. The augmentors, on direct stimulation, cause a slight increase in the diastolic
expansion of the ventricles, which is passive in nature and due to the increased force
of the auricular contraction. The force of the ventricular contractions is increased ;
they contract more completely, diminishing the amount of residual blood in spite of the
fact that the arterial pressure is usually somewhat raised. (Pp, 242-244.)

There are certain nerve fibres, other than the nervi augmentores proper, which
pass from the stellate ganglion to the heart, sometimes by the annulus of
Vieussens to the inferior cervical ganglion, but sometimes as separate branches
passing directly to the heart from the “ ganglion stellatum” or the “annulus.” On
peripheral excitation of the cut nerves, there is marked weakening of the contractions
both of the auricles and of the ventricles, usually with some degree of slowing, this
being sometimes followed by a very well-marked increase in the foree and frequence of


PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE MAMMALIAN HEART. 295

the auricular and ventricular contractions. They may be vaso-constrictors for the
coronary vessels, although we give no proof of this. (Pp. 244-247.)

There are nerve fibres which descend to the heart by the vago-sympathetics which,
on excitation, under certain conditions, increase the force and frequence of the auricles
-and ventricles, and which may be vaso-dilators for the coronary vessels. (Pp. 248-250.)

Reflex excitation of the vagus produces results which are the same as those of
direct excitation of the nerve, and the curves are more typical and satisfactory than
those obtained on direct excitation of the nerve. (Pp. 250-254.)

Excitation of a mixed nerve, like the sciatic, usually produces effects on the heart

similar in kind to those due to direct excitation of the augmentors, but the
‘Phenomena are complicated by the greater rise of the pressure in the systemic
‘Barteries. Sometimes the increase in the force of the ventricle more than counter-
Sbalances this increased resistance to contraction, and the amount of residual blood in
2 the left ventricle is reduced ; in other cases, the increase in force of the ventricular
contractions is not sufficient to counterbalance the increased resistance, and the
residual blood in the left ventricle is increased. (Pp. 254-258.)
S In Section IX. we show that excitation of the central end of a mixed nerve, like the
Egciatic or splanchnic, usually affects both the augmentor and vagus centres in the
= £ medulla and that, in nearly all cases, the augmentor centre is the more strongly excited
Zof the two, so that augmentor effects show themselves during the excitation, but are
2 succeeded by vagus action on ceasing to excite the nerve.