A(Pp. 278-282.)

The part played by the vagus in protecting the diseased heart from harmful over-
work is referred to, and it is shown that the irregularities of the heart in disease may
be explained by the mode in which this nerve, when acting powerfully, releases the
ventricles from the control of the rhythmic centre in the sinus. The chief forms of
rhythmic and arhythmic irregularity are considered, and it is shown that these
correspond with the forms of irregularity which can be produced by vagus action,
The irregular heart expends more energy, and its tissues, therefore, are more wasted
for a given amount of work, than the heart which is beating regularly. (Pp. 282-284.)

The effect upon the heart of imperfect aération of the blood is, first of all, to produce

MDCCCXCIIL—-B, 2Q


298 ON THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE MAMMALIAN HEART.

powerful vagus action from the medullary centre ; this is, usually, though not always,
accompanied, in curarised animals, by diminution of the output of the heart. But
reasons are given for assuming that the output would be increased in uncurarised
animals, owing to the high venous pressure which results from struggling. - Besides
the vagus action it can be shown that temporary asphyxia causes progressive
weakening both of the auricles and of the ventricles, and attention is drawn to
the fact that the considerable rise of pressure in the systemic arteries in asphyxia is
accompanied by vagus effects upon the heart, and not by augmentor action, as is the
case, so far as we know, in all instances in which the vaso-constrictor centre is excited
in the normal individual. It is noted that the changes in the heart and circulation which take place during
asphyxia point to the conclusion that, when the total amount of oxygen in the blood
is lowered, it is for the benefit of the economy that those organs, such as the central
nervous system, whose continuous blood supply is a vital necessity, should be richly
supplied with blood by constriction of the vessels of the spleen, kidney, and digestive
system, whose blood supply can be cut off temporarily without danger to life, and also
that the heart should carry on the circulation in a manner involving as little waste
as possible of its own substance. This, as we have seen, it is the function of the
vagus nerve to bring about. (Pp. 284-288.)