But for national addition to these demographic reasons there is,
population projections, age-group-wise projections of course, significant substantive interest in the age-
have clearly become the state-of-the-art because specific proportions of men and women in the
they allow differentiation between the behavioural population which matters for issues ranging from the
components (fertility, mortality and migration) and marriage market to labour market to consumer

embedded changes that are merely owing to age- preferences.
structural effects. This is particularly important for The formal model for doing population projections
countries that have gone through significant fluctu- by age and sex was introduced by Cannan (1895)

ations in fertility and mortality trends and hence but it took until after World War II to have this

have irregular age structures, such as most European cohort-component method spread around the world

countries after the two world wars. But even for high as the dominant way for doing population projections.

fertility countries that traditionally had very stable Today, it is used by all national and international

and regular age pyramids, the assumed future fertility statistical agencies.

decline will be partly compensated in terms of popu-

lation growth through the age-structural momentum,

i.e. the fact that in the future larger numbers of poten- (c) Rural-urban place of residence

tial mothers will enter the reproductive age and the Place of residence has always been an important

number of births will continue to increase even if dimension since the very origin of demography when

period fertility is at replacement level. This is another statistical information on households was collected

good reason for explicitly considering the age structure for taxation purposes and conscriptions for the army.

wherever possible. Associating people with a specific locality, however,
requires that people have a more or less permanent
residence and are not permanently on the move.

(b) Age and sex This is one problem facing statisticians when trying
Particularly in the context of population ageing, the to distinguish between urban and rural populations
explicit interest in the population’s changing age struc- in countries (such as China), where millions of

ture has recently increased significantly.