Generally speaking, these
Smmethods have included the intracardiac pressure in the various cavities of the organ,
“the antero-posterior diameter of the ventricles, the changes in volume of the whole
Sheart, the contractions of the heart wall at different parts and of the “musculi
Bapillares.” the arterial and venous pressures, and the pulse-wave. A small portion
dof our work, bearing especially upon the pathology of the heart, has already been
Spublished,* as has also another small portion bearing upon the part played by the
heart in influencing the form of the pulse-wave.t In the following pages we have
Esought to avoid, as far as possible, the repetition of anything which has appeared in
2the papers here referred to. [We have made a very large number of observations on
Fee Pharmacology of the Mammalian heart, the results of which, in order to avoid
Soverloading the present paper, will be published on some future occasion. ]

According to our experience it is necessary to proceed very circumspectly in the
‘Binterpretation of graphic records from the Mammalian heart, and, so far as we know,
“athe best, and indeed the only way, to avoid falling into error is to take care to control
&the observations made with one method by means of experiments in which some

gother method has been used. S| SECTION II.—METHODS.

& We have constantly, in the course of our work, been reminded that the graphic
Smethods which may be used for studying the heart’s action may very easily lead to

erroneous conclusions unless it be known what are the sources of error inherent in
Gany particular method employed, and also, unless it be kept clearly in mind what
kind of facts the employment of any given method is capable of supplying, and what
kind of facts it is unfitted to elucidate. In the observations which are recorded in
the following pages, we have made use mainly of two forms of cardiograph, one of them,
the cardiometer, being arranged to record the changes in volume. which the heart
undergoes ; the other, the myocardiograph, giving graphic records of the contractions
of any part or parts of the wall of the heart in the same way as an ordinary myograph
records the contractions of a voluntary muscle.

* Roy and Apamr, ‘‘ On Overstrain of the Heart,” ‘ British Medical Journal,’ December 15th, 1888.
+ Roy and Apamt, “ Heart-beat and Pulse-wave,” ‘ Practitioner,’ February to July, 1890. MDCCCXCII.—B, 2D


202 PROFESSOR C.