Significant differentials can
cities traditionally had higher mortality owing to a be found in most populations of all cultural traditions.
higher risk of infectious disease, this pattern virtually Only in a few modern societies does the strongly nega-
disappeared over the course of the twentieth century tive association give way to a U-shaped pattern in
because healthcare and education were better in which the most educated women have a somewhat
urban areas. But most recently there are indications higher fertility than those with intermediate education.
of a reversal, with urban slums in some African cities But globally, the education differentials are so perva-
having worse mortality conditions than even remote sive that education may well be called the single
villages in the same country. most important observable source of population het-

From a methodological point of view, the best erogeneity after age and sex (Lutz et al. 1999). There
model to project a population by age and sex for are good reasons to assume that during the course of
urban and rural areas separately is the so-called a demographic transition the fact that higher education
multi-state model, which was developed at IIASA in leads to lower fertility is a true causal mechanism,
the 1980s (Rogers & Land 1982; Keyfitz 1985). It where education facilitates better access to and infor-
has become the state-of-the-art for multi-dimensional mation about family planning and most importantly

population projections in which separate fertility, mor- leads to a change in attitude in which ‘quantity’ of chil-
tality and migration rates are assumed for the different dren is replaced by ‘quality’, i.e. couples want to have
sub-populations as well as age- and sex-specific tran- fewer children with better life chances.

sition rates between sub-populations. Because of data In terms of measuring education, it is important to

limitations, such true multi-state projections by distinguish between stock and flow variables.