The mere fact that in such cases the
ventricular beat does not correspond with that of the auricles indicates that we have
here to do with a rhythm which is essentially different from that in which the ventri-
qeular systole follows that of the auricles, and it may safely be concluded that we have

Sto do here with the independent ventricular rhythm which shows itself when the ven-
ipiricles are anatomically or physiologically isolated. There is, however, one important
“Edifference between the independent ventricular rhythm which shows itself on excita-
tion of the vagus and that which appears on giving muscarin or in anatomically isolating
Athe ventricles, namely, that, in the first case, the independent rhythm establishes
Sitself slowly, whereas in the other two cases it does not do so, and the causes of this
difference we shall now consider.

8
2
5 (c.) The Excitability of the Ventricles.

"2 That the vagus has the power of stopping the Mammalian ventricle, even for a few
Be econds, is explicable, so far as we can see, only by one or other of two hypotheses,
‘namely (a) that the independent rhythm of the ventricles takes some little time—a
‘Stime varying with each heart—to establish itself. This involves the conclusion that
2the ventricular contractions, due to the intrinsic mechanism of the ventricles, cannot

4* follow on” the contractions which, previous to the excitation of the nerve, reached the

ventricles after each auricular beat, and that the ventricles had, so to speak, to start

Bafresh. (b) The second hypothesis is, that the vagus diminishes temporarily the

rgexcitability of the ventricles, or of their rhythmic centre, if it exist, so that their °

‘gindependent rhythm does not at once follow on the post-auricular contractions which

‘Epreceded them.

3 We know of no facts which tend to support the first of these two explanations,
F which might seem, & priori, the more probable. In favour of the second hypothesis,
and against the first, there are certain facts which are too important to be overlooked. In the first place Trczrstepr* found, on severing the auricles from the ventricles in
Rabbits, by means of his “ atriotome,” that the ventricles at once pass on to the slowed
but regular rhythm which is due to their intrinsic mechanism, and that there is no
such temporary arrest of the ventricles as is produced by strong vagus excitation.