We give detailed reasons for concluding

= that this suffices to explain the apparent weakening of the ventricular contractions..

‘oh (Pp. 222-224.)

S We then examine the influence of the vagus upon the tonus of the relaxed ventricles,

i and point out that the great distension during vagus action is due entirely to increased

= intra-ventricular pressure during diastole, and not, as has been asserted by some, to

a any change in the elasticity of the relaxed ventricular wall. (Pp. 225-227.)

4 Next, we consider the cause of the rise of venous (systemic and pulmonary) pressure,

8 and find that this is due not to any increase in the amount of blood entering the

veins in a given time, or to contraction of their walls, but that it is to be ascribed to

8 the diminished inflow into the ventricles. S The cause of this diminished inflow into the ventricles, leading to corresponding

& diminution of the output is twofold, namely weakening, or arrest of the auricles, and,

a secondly, the elastic resistance of the ventricular wall to distension. We show that

= this explanation must apply to both sides of the heart and that observed facts

£ correspond with it. :

= We then consider the after-effects of vagus excitation, and show that the temporary

‘3 increase in the output which is sometimes present may be explained by a temporary

f: increase in the force of the auricular contractions, and by the venous pressure taking

= some little time to fall after the vagus excitation has ceased. (Pp. 227-231.)

A After this we examine the influence of the vagus upon the heart rhythm, and show
that when the vagus excitation reaches a certain degree (varying in different animals),
the ventricles begin to beat independently of the sinus and auricles, the rhythm,
which is at first, slow and irregular, gradually becoming fairly rapid and almost
completely regular. This rhythm, we show, must be looked upon as the same as that which, as
Wootpripee and Ticersrept observed, makes its appearance when the ventricles
are severed from the auricles. We point out, however, that the independent
ventricular rhythm of vagus action is characterised by the slowness with which
it establishes itself. (Pp. 231-233.)


294 PROFESSOR ©.