Trans.,’ B, 1888.

+ ‘Archiv fiir Anat. und Phys.’ (pv Bors-Reymonp), 1870, p. 300.
t¢ ‘ Untersuchungen iiber das Gehirn,’ Berlin, 1874, p. 132.

§ ‘The Functions of the Brain,’ 1st ed., 1876, 2nd ed., 1886,


MOTOR REGION OF THE CORTEX CEREBRI IN THE MONKEY. 41

lower end of the fissure of RoLANpvo and 2, see further, “ Anatomy,” p. 4), “ Open-
ing of the Mouth with Retraction of the Tongue.” “‘ These movements ” (deseribed
under Nos. 9 and 10) “are occasionally repeated for some time after the electrodes
are withdrawn. The movements are bilateral.”

No. 11. (Situated on the lower extremity of the ascending parietal gyrus covering
the space between the hinder end of the fissure of Rotanpo and the lower end of
the intraparietal sulcus,) “ Retraction of the Angle of the Mouth.” “The action is
that of the platysma myoides, and when this is strong the head is drawn slightly to
the side.”

H. Munx* confirmed the fact that the movements of the face and tongue were
represented in the Monkey in the area delineated by Hrrzic and by Ferrter, but
did not record minuter details of the localisation. Sonirer and Horstry.t—These investigators found on sub-dividing the facial area,
as marked out by Ferri, that the broad facts described by him were correct, except
that the wpper part of the area was the seat of elevation of the angle of the mouth,
and that the Jower half was the region of retraction of the same. (It may be noted
that Ferrier, in the last chapter of his book, when he transfers the excitation
results from the Monkey’s brain to that of Man, places these areas of representation
in the reverse order, 7.¢., the same as ScHArER and Horstey, and, as will presently
be seen, the same as we have found it, namely, “Elevation” above “ Retraction.)
They further observed that just below the upper border of the so-called face region,
i.e., just opposite to the lower end of the intraparietal sulcus, the movements of

winking and of closure (synchronous) of both pairs of eyelids were therein repre-
sented; also that half-way down the vertical limit of the precentral sulcus and
just below it, the movement of drawing in and out of both cheeks was elicited
on excitation; also that pouting and pursing of the lips were evoked from the
horizontal strip of cortex running forwards from the lower end of the fissure of
Roanvo towards the precentral sulcus; finally, from above the Sylvian fissure and
between the lower end of the fissure of Rouanpo and “v,” it was found that the
tongue was actively retracted and also directed towards the side of excitation. ANATOMY.