More research is Once again, collective failure is instructive in help-
needed to understand the nature of these different ing us to phrase the right research question. The
strategies and decision rules. initial failure of the no-feedback groups to exceed

We also conducted a similar alignment analysis on their best member and their subsequent improvements
the data from the NV condition of experiment 1. to the same level as feedback groups pose serious pro-

Our results did not show any significant findings blems for models of collective decision-making that
either for the alignment of confidence ratings or for a assume no social learning [9,10]. An important ques-
correlation between alignment and collective benefit. tion for future research is to explain the dynamics of
We believe that this is most likely owing to the fact social learning needed to achieve effective collective
that the number of trials in the interactive phase of | behaviour over the course of repeated interactions in
experiment 1 (i.e. 128) was half that of experiment 23 the absence of feedback.

remember that the effects that we see in figure 8 did Currently, a number of computational models have
not emerge before the final third of the trials been proposed for social learning based on principles
(171-256). Aside from statistical power issues, how- of associative reinforcement learning [36-38]. The

ever, we are also reluctant to make a strong prediction critical question here is: how could dyad members in
about alignment of confidences in experiment 1 as the the no-feedback experiment [34] have accomplished
main manipulation in that experiment was to deliver reinforcement learning without any reinforcement
different and uncorrelated levels of independently gen- (i.e. without knowing the outcome of their decisions)?
erated visual input noise to the two participants in each It has been suggested [34] that sharing metacognitive
trial, which is expected to weaken any developing/ awareness may provide sufficient information to
existing correlation among any outputs from the two replace feedback and reinforce social learning.