The first group comprises DRC, Gabon s
million in DRC; +US$4.3 million in RoC and +US$7.6

—, and Rwanda with a higher than average assessed capacity.
million in Gabon). The second group includes RoC and Cameroon with a slightly
above average scoring and finally a third group with below

(b) Readiness for REDD+ and measurement, reporting average scoring including Burundi, Chad, CAR, Equatorial

Guinea and STP.

and verification related to capacity and information In terms of M&MRV financing and the status assessment in
This analysis provides a first insight into where countries cur- the countries, the relationship appears to be less straightforward
rently find themselves in this process; and as such does not than for the general REDD+ process. The three countries that
account for the fact that (i) countries started with varied have received direct M&MRV financing at the national level,
capacities for M&MRV prior to engaging in REDD+ readiness as identified previously, are DRC, RoC and Gabon. Nonethe-
and (ii) countries entered (or have not yet entered) the REDD+ less, Rwanda finds itself in the ‘most advanced’ group, while
readiness process at different points in time. RoC finds itself in the ‘average level’ group together with

Based on the semi-structured interviews and observations, Cameroon, which received no direct M&MRV financing.
table 5 provides an overview of the status of comprehension,
active national programmes and NGO involvement in the
REDD+ process for each of the 10 countries. ‘Comprehension’ (@) Challenges and prospects
was measured based on elements of REDD-+ in terms of: the One of the tasks set for each of the working groups during
concept of REDD+; understanding of the UNFCCC nego- the workshop in N’Djamena in September 2012 was to ident-
tiations, processes and decisions texts; and knowledge of ify the key prospects and challenges to implement REDD+
international programmes to support REDD+ readiness such and particularly M&MRV within their group.
as UN-REDD and FCPF.