They may be said generally to take a more or
less arched course through the nerve substance of the ganglion and to enter their
centre from above. Certain of these fine fibres directly decussate and pass to the
@ centre of the opposite side. This, however, does not always occur.
= The large fibres form two sets, some ascend, and after passing for a short distance
<as external arcuate fibres, plunge into the nerve substance of the ganglion and
6 either—
2 (a) Break up in a zone of coarse plexus lying at the junction of the upper and
a middle third of the ganglion; or
2 (b) They directly decussate, passing to a similar region on the opposite side
5 (fig. 34, a).
8 The second stream of large fibres (fig. 34, b’) passes in more ventrally and
I anteriorly, and communicates with a cell group lying on the ventral surface of the
° © ganglion and extending round the entrance of the posterior nerve (figs. 34 and 35, b),
S Some of the fibres, however, break up directly in a mass of plexus, lying anterior and
& external to the fine plexus related to the fine fibres of the posterior nerves.
§ We thus see that the fine fibres or sensory elements of each posterior nerve pass to
& a single centre, while the large fibres or motor elements are distributed to two regions
8 of coarse plexus, I take it that we may correlate this dual character of the central
& connections of the motor elements with the fact that the nerve supplies two sets of
muscles—the external and internal extensors, differing enormously in their general
& arrangement, and in the position of their fibres, At the same time these two masses
of plexus are intimately connected by unbranched fibres and bridges of plexus. Rerztus (loc, cit.) has shown that a certain number of the fibres of the posterior
nerves have no connection with the elements of the ganglion, but turn directly back-
wards to descend in the longitudinal commissure. A similar arrangement, as will be
seen, obtains in the case of the posterior dorsal nerves.