Information quantifies the reduction a

of spike patterns. They are used, for example, when comput- of uncertainty (i.e. the gain in knowledge) about the stimuli s

ing a classical peri-event time-histogram using a division of obtained from a single-trial observation of a neuronal a

time into smaller and equally spaced time bins that are response (averaged over stimuli and responses). Information = 2.

aligned to stimulus onset. is measured in bits (1 bit corresponds to a reduction of uncer- Ss
These considerations raise the important question of how tainty by a factor of two) and is an upper bound on the S

the brain may succeed in interpreting the information carried amount of knowledge about stimuli that can be extracted =

by the temporal variations of neural responses without the by any decoding algorithm operating on neural responses. ‘S

benefit of a computer clock measuring perfect time intervals The fact that mutual information quantifies single-trial stimu- . ©

and providing the exact time of stimulus presentation [14-16]. lus knowledge is particularly appealing because neural — >

In conditions when the motor system actively initiates or systems usually must discriminate or identify stimuliona —§ =

modulates the external event [15,17,18], sensory systems may single encounter. yy

possibly receive a motor efference copy that reduces tempo- By evaluating the information carried by neural codes r 2

ral uncertainty about stimulus timing [19-21]. However, based on different response aspects (timing or number of &

when sampling is not actively initiated and when the stimulus spikes) and defined relative to different reference frames, one a

appears suddenly and unpredictably, such efference mechan- can evaluate the capacity of different candidate neural codes. w

isms are not available and the system requires an intrinsic Below, we specifically compare the information obtained |

temporal reference. from responses r quantified using the experimenter’s clock |S
How the brain maintains a representation of time intervals with responses r defined using an internal reference signals. 3

also remains unclear [22]. Some suggest the existence of a Owing to the difficulties of computing stimulus—response  S

common specialized—and perhaps centralized—mechanism probabilities from finite amounts of experimental data [33],

for all or most timing operations [23].