The abnormalities are of

St various kinds and degrees. The commonest and least conspicuous is the mere reversal
Sof the asymmetry which is characteristic of the species, the differences between the
Btwo sides being the same as in normal specimens, but the left side presenting the
@characters usually connected with the right, and vice versd. According to my own
Sexperience, this variation is most frequent in the Flounder, Pleuronectes flesus; in
Sthe neighbourhood of Plymouth a large percentage of Flounders are sinistral instead
Sof dextral.
® It is a curious fact that in a sinistral Flat Fish, whether it is normally sinistral like
sathe Turbot, or abnormally like a reversed Flounder, the viscera are in the same
position as in a dextral specimen; the liver is on the left side, the coils of the
intestine on the right. The reversal of the relations of the two sides externally does
Snot affect the relations of the internal organs, which remain constant.
3 But more important in relation to the subject of the present memoir are abnor-
2 malities of coloration, which consist in the presence of some pigment, from small
Spatches up to complete pigmentation, on the lower side of the Fish, or the absence of
pigment from part or from the whole of the ocular side.
é Specimens which are pigmented all over the lower side as well as the upper, or
gocular, have usually been called double, but, as this term is evidently not quite
E suitable, we prefer the term “ambicolorate.” An abnormality of the head is frequentl¥
Bfound i in ambicolorate specimens; in this abnormality the anterior end of the dorsal
3 fin, instead of extending forwards towards the snout on the outer side of the dorsal
Boye, terminates behind the level of the eyes, and its end forms a curved hook
A projecting forwards, as shown in Plate 54, fig. 1. Before referring to the descriptions of such abnormalities previously published, we
shall proceed to enumerate the specimens that have come under our own notice
or been described to us by other naturalists.