For example, a homesigner
taking a nap’, produced in response to the child’s point at points at the bubble jar, which is already open, and produces
bird + ‘nap’) [55]. Interestingly, mothers produce longer (and an iconic Twist gesture; he wants his mother to open the
potentially more syntactically complex) sentences in response bubble jar that she is holding, but he uses the (open) jar that
to their children’s supplementary gesture + speech combi- is near him to indicate the kind of object he wants opened.
nations (point at bird + ‘nap’) than to their complementary These gestures are called category points, and homesigners
gesture + speech combinations (point at bird + ‘bird’). More- typically begin producing them later in development than
over, mothers’ sentences tend to be longest when they pick up demonstrative points [59].
on information conveyed in child speech and gesture (e.g. ‘the In addition to category points, homesigners also produce
bird's taking a nap’), despite the fact that they could easily have iconic gestures (gestures that represent an aspect of an action
produced sentences that are just as long when they pick up on or object through pantomime) that function like nouns [60].
information conveyed only in the child’s speech (‘It’s time for For example, a homesigner moved two fists as though steering
your nap’) or only in the child’s gesture (‘It’s just like grandma’s a car to describe a picture of a motionless car. When function-
bird’) or when they ignore the child’s utterance entirely (‘Let’s ing as a noun, these gestures evoke a class of objects, rather
read another book’) [55]. than a specific object (unless, of course, they are accompanied
If child gesture is playing an instrumental role in language by a pointing gesture). Homesigners tend to produce their first
learning, mothers’ translations ought to be related to later iconic noun gestures during the same observation session in
word- and sentence-learning in their children—and they are which they first produce category points [59].
[55].