The obvious advantage of linguistic discourse

semous as the glance at a leaf on a branch; it could be about comprehension is that we are no longer tied to the current

‘line up those objects’, or ‘line up a supplier’, or a ‘line of scene. However, once the appropriate visual word meaning

kings’ or a ‘line of thought’, ‘in line with what I’m thinking’, patterns have been called up and bound together, the

or ‘don’t cross that line’, or prosaically, ‘a clothes line’. nature and interactions of the composite pattern might be

Though the meanings conjured up here are often listed in a dic- conditioned mainly by the prelinguistic rules of interaction

tionary under ‘line’, most of the work may instead get done by of scene representations in primate visual areas networks.

interaction with context, as in the case of the leafy branch; a In this sense, a part of what has been called linguistic

truly isolated experience of the unique semantic content of syntax and semantics might not be modular with respect to

‘line’ (with anaesthesia before and after) is probably much the neuroscience of vision.

more minimal than what is found in the dictionary. The There is in fact substantial evidence that visual areas in

impetus for thinking this way came from considering the humans are involved in specifically linguistic functions. There

truly unremarkable chemical properties of isolated amino is a kind of aphasia that is self-contradictorily called ‘transcorti-

acids—the word meanings at the molecular level—compared cal sensory’ aphasia (i.e. ‘across-from-the-language-cortex’

to their incredible, multifarious catalytic specificity upon aphasia!) that is generated by a lesion in left human inferotem-

their mere concatenation into self-folding amino acid chains. poral cortex [77]. Many of these lesions are so posterior and
Second, there is a physical divide in the visual system ventral that they are associated with overt visual field defects.

between motion processing—in the middle temporal area Transcortical sensory aphasics have poor, Wernicke’s-like com-

(MT), the medial superior temporal area dorsal division prehension, yet paradoxically (at least in the context of

(MSTd), the lateral intraparietal area (LIP), the ventral intra- traditional models of language comprehension) can repeat

parietal area (VIP)—and object property processing—shape, words effortlessly.