Interestingly, these global properties are In the complex system approach, the brain is thought of asa = =
associated with some mesoscale properties such as assortativ- thermodynamical system, subject to energy costs and con- yy
ity, with hubs in fractal and non-fractal structures, respectively, straints, entropy barriers and information flows across its 2
repelling or attracting each other [29]. boundaries [8]. &
Complex network theory also allows quantifying the A wide range of nested, hitherto unaddressed theoretical a
inherent trade-off between the emergence of segregated special- and experimental questions arise naturally. For instance, how w
ized modules, stemming from the need for fast and reliable efficiently does the brain perform the functions it is supposed |
responses to changes in the environment, and integrated to carry out, under the constraints it is facing? How does it &
global coherent activity, necessary for the binding of complex withstand external perturbations? 3
information and the formation of adaptive responses [30], and The way the human brain organizes its structure and = &
evaluating the extent to which this balance is optimized [31,32]. function can be understood as the result of the constraint
The fact that some of these properties have been found in optimization process faced by any physical and biological
systems that are very different from the brain suggests that system such as electronic devices or communications net-
they may have a universal character [33], and may possibly works, and shows that similar principles of resource
be grouped into universality classes, identifying common allocation can be found in many physical and biological sys-
interaction rules over and above the microscopic details of tems [8]. These questions can be addressed by examining the
each particular system, which can be treated as irrelevant as topological and dynamical network properties. Far from
they disappear when getting rid of details and observing being mere fancy mathematical descriptions of a system,
the system at increasingly longer length scales. these properties have important implications for the system’s
Appropriate null models facilitate quantitative network functioning [52].
evaluation.