Identify-
scale, where the role played by single nodes may be altered ing nodes, establishing links according to some relationship
[74]. For instance, network hubs appear to be especially vulner- between them, deciding which links are significant, and,
able to brain disease [18,75], which appears to reshuffle the once network properties are computed, using them to charac-
ranking of node centralities in the network [65,76]. terize the network are all steps involving somehow arbitrary

choices with often covert underlying assumptions, and far-
reaching nested consequences (see [9,78—80] for recent critical
reviews on the topic).

3. Hard times

The introduction of fundamentally different concepts and tools

to a new field is a path often plagued with pitfalls, typically (i) Identifying nodes

coming under the guise of over-, under- and mis-application Identifying nodes supposes that the studied system can

and interpretation. meaningfully be decomposed into discrete structureless
In fact, the enthusiastic resort to any new method, particu- parts. This reduction is not trivial when dealing with systems

larly when imported from other fields, may on one hand lead of largely unknown organization and dynamics.

to disregarding some of its assumptions and limitations and, Depending on the technique used to record brain activity,

on the other hand, lead to the (often improper) isolation of the main issue may be the extent to which sensors sample the

those parts of the method that are more readily amenable to underlying dynamical system or how to best segment

the pillar concepts of pre-existing ones, while other parts are the space.

only resorted to at later stages, regardless of their possible Studies using electrophysiological techniques such as

scope in the field. electro- or magnetoencephalography identify nodes with
Neuroscience is not being spared these various problems, sensors. This introduces spatial scales possibly unrelated to

as stumbling blocks lurk at all levels, from the very domain the actual system organization, and potentially affecting the

of complex network theory’s applicability, to the crucial network’s topological properties [81,82].