Data
may be roughly classified into a few categories related to the
source. Here, we propose the following, which is intended
only as a rough guide to organize the complex set of variables


1. requirements and scope—to identify the key
climate-related risks, end-user requirements,

scope, and context
requirements

and scope F 2. feasibility—to explore data availability and
feasibility of the requirements

oe 3. baseline climate risk—to assess the key
hazard . climate risks for the current climate

4. future climate risk—to assess how the key
climate risks could change under scenarios of

.. |. risk .
appropriate climate change
communicatio:

baseline 5. adaptation options—to work with the end-
climate risk users to explore adaptation options

6. appropriate communication—to provide
adaptation appropriate communications of the risks to end

options future users and stakeholders
climate risk
7. monitor and review—to support future updates

and improvements to the assessment utilizing the
latest information

Figure 1. Schematic of the climate impacts and risk assessment framework (CIRF). (Online version in colour.)

that are, in fact, interrelated: ecological field measurements environment, pathogen and host. Given such complexity, it
relevant to both vectors and hosts, laboratory experiments is clear that climate is only one of many influences on such
to investigate single-system and multi-system (i.e. one or systems. Thus, in order to manage the risks that VBDs pose
more components of pathogen, vector and host) effects and to humans as a result of climate change, it is important to
rates, economic variables (e.g. land use, economic indices), assess the potential impacts within the wider context of the
sociological (e.g. education level, human movement, trans- current risks of VBDs on humans, key (climate and other) dri-
portation), medical (e.g. reporting, vaccination, hospital vers and interactions affecting VBDs in humans and potential
availability) and political (e.g. border issues). adaptation and decision support options to reduce and
In the context of VBDs and climate/climate change, there manage the risks [178].
are certain well-defined measurement and data needs that are A variety of conceptual frameworks have been developed
still lacking or require replication because of inherent techni- to guide the assessment of climate change risks for a range of
cal difficulties in their acquisition; these include good applications [179-182].