Although the observations which we are about to record have, we venture to think,
a direct bearing on the theory of immunity, we would ask that they might be
regarded, not in this light only, but as some contribution to the more general natural

history of the wandering cells. }
On investigating the histology of the body fluids of certain Invertebrates and
ure and habits possess

Vertebrates, we find that animals widely separated in struct
the same kinds of wandering cells. But we also find (1) that, within the limits of a
single group of animals, the simplest forms possess only one kind of wandering ce
while those with greater structural complexity have all the three typical forms
sharply and completely distinct from one another; and (2) that during the foetal

% Buruicu, ‘ Farbenanalytische Unters.,’ Berlin. ‘



AND BEHAVIOUR OF THE WANDERING CELLS OF THE FROG. 283

‘od a Mammal has only one kind of wandering cell. These facts suggest two
5: firstly, that a certain fixity of type must be accorded to each kind of
ering cell, that the different forms found in the more complex animals must be
arded as distinct from one another in their development and life history, even if
y be regarded as having a common origin ; and, secondly, that, corresponding with
s divergence and fixity of type, there must be divergence and fixity of function.
have endeavoured to demonstrate a disparity of function comparable to the
parity of form by comparing the behaviour of the different kinds of wandering
s towards various substances when added to the lymph or blood. Zince the wandering cells of the Frog retain their vitality for a long time after

emoval from the body, that animal has been mostly used. The lymph is obviously

serviceable for examination, but the cells of the blood are similar and offer

ar phenomena. |
me observations have also been made on Astacus, the Rat, and the Rabbit.

‘The experiments on the cells when out of the body have been controlled by parallel

gperiments on the cells while still within the body.