In order to model the complexity of ecologi-
cedures to learn such structures from examples (e.g. to infer cal real-word structures, they should be able to deal with
CFGs) are highly complex and are likely to be underestimated graded syntactic acceptability [116] and sequence probability,
in artificial grammar learning research.> they should be grounded in considerations of descriptive
Importantly, the CH concerns a theoretical construct that parsimony, in links to semantics and form-meaning inter-
organizes types of structures according to different forms of actions, and they should not only account for production and
rewrite rules and has, being a theory of formal languages in perception, but also consider learnability and computational
conjunction with idealized formal automata, little immediate complexity (e.g. memory requirements, and accounting for
connection with cognitive motivations or constraints (such as limited memory in biological systems). Finally, formal
limited memory). The fact that it defines a set of languages models should be required to make predictions for empirical
that happen to be organized in mutual superset relations structures based on which they may be distinguished on an
and are well explored in terms of formal automata that pro- empirical basis.
duce them does not motivate its reification in terms of One main topic in theoretical linguistics, orthogonal to the
mental processes, cognitive constraints or neural correlates. finer classifications within the CH, concerns the distinction
Although the CH has been inspired research in terms of a fra- between ‘weak generative capacity’ and ‘strong generative
mework that allowed for the comparison of different models capacity’ that are relevant for debates in music and animal
and formal negative arguments against the plausibility of research. There are divergent definitions of these terms. Briefly,
certain formal languages or corresponding computational they concern the difference whether we can focus on just
mechanisms, it does not constitute an inescapable a priori classes of sets of sequences (i.e. regarding models just by the
point of reference for all kinds of models of structure building surface sequences they model: ‘weak generative capacity’), or
or processing.