Fa:rrincer (8) saw the extrusion of the club cells in this Fish, but he
loes not describe the final stage of thread formation.

“Lam, therefore, quite unable to accept the more recent account by PogosErr (15),
is regards the nervous nature of the club cells of Petromyzon, and conclude that, in
he three cases I have examined, Myxine, Anguilla, and Petromyzon, the greater part
{the club cell is eliminated in the forms of threads, which can be detected in the slime. SNuclei.— As regards the nuclei of the slime, two possible origins present themselves,
'@ From the nuclei of the vesicles of the club cells ; (2) From the nuclei of the fibro-

ts. Bdize is, unfortunately, no help in coming to a decision between these two possible
squrces of origin, though it at once enables one to state that these slime nuclei are
ngt those of epidermic scales, for the latter are far larger than the former.
‘pol aT TINGER (8) noted in Petromyzon that the extruded club cells did not contain a
ngeleus, and the fact is evident enough in the fibre masses of the cells in the Eel.
‘Fhe nucleus of the original club cell passes away in the escape cell, or mass, and as
Eis is absent as such from the slime, it must break up upon extrusion, and its nucleus
‘e set free.
2 As regards the other possibility, origin from fibroblasts, I have not observed that,
iader “normal” conditions, these reach the surface. On the whole, then, I am inclined
f consider the slime nuclei as derived from those of the club cells, though, under
®nditions of severe stimulation, I think an origin from fibroblasts is also possible.
& Granules.—The granules of the slime appear to be the granules of the escape cells,
masses, developed from the contents of the vesicles of the club cells. Their
General similarity, and the staining reaction with soluble blue and methyl green,
gether with the similarity of the Litrenrenp and Montt phosphorus reaction
. footnotes pp. 326 and 345), in the two cases, form, however, the only basis upon
hich I make this statement.