A magnificent example of this will be found in
B, Plate 33, which should be contrasted with that of a normal skin in the
vest phase of secretory activity presented in Photo A of the same plate.
‘Fhe question at once arises: Is this action of chloroform vapour a direct one upon
club cells? or, Is it a reflex action demanding nervous ties with the cord ?
ainly to be given in favour of the latter query, for the following

The answer is cert
of chloroform vapour does not

[o) 4 . .
agpn, that exposure of exsected skin to the action ¢
luce the effect.

‘Bhere is never any evidence of

pen the removed skin. Fig. 35, Plate 32,
oxhloroform vapour for about fifteen minutes, and is to be contrasted with fig. 36 of

i same plate, where the animal with intact spinal cord was stimulated by the
pour. There is, then, physiological evidence of nervous connections for the club
As, though I have not as yet been able to convince myself of the fact anatomically.
4t should here be noted that in former experiments upon the electromotive pro-
wAties of the skin of the Eel (34) I found that exposure of exsected skin to the action
#Echloroform vapour caused a fall of potential, and I believe that the direct action
nm the protoplasm of the secretory elements is narcotic, though in early stages one
y have a reflex excitatory effect in the animal with intact cord. In this reflex stimulation of the club cells it is apparently only the formed ceils
t react to the excitation; at any rate T have seen no evidence of chloroform
= leading to a rapid production of new individuals from the palisade cells.
et it is difficult to imagine how any nerve connection with the club cells can be
retained after they have been set free from the palisade layer. Possibly some con-
ducting protoplasmic connection, that has escaped me, is retained between the
palisade cells and the club cells, the nerve connection being solely with the former.*
(B.) The Production of Goblet Cells. —At the same time that this extraordinary change
is produced in the club cells, a great production of goblet cells also appears to take
place upon stimulation with chloroform vapour.