From the scientific perspective, there are clear
methods of regulation once global harmonization occurs. differences related to surface area (although this obviously
‘Nanotechnology is neither the first nor (hopefully!) the last also includes ambient combustion particulates) and related
such example in a long chain of precedents when humans to manipulation of aspect ratio, band gap and surface strain.
have embraced new technologies mindful of risk, in the Overall, there is consensus in the scientific community that
hope of furthering the progress of all humanity. Whether the main challenge with nanomaterials is the convergence of
such goals can be achieved using old models for governance, multiple complexities simultaneously, such as surface inter-
or requires new approaches that synthesize many sets of actions (bio-nano interface), small size and thus enhanced
ideals from various perspectives and from many nations, accessibility to living organisms, and quantum effects [53],

remains to be seen’ [32, p. 34]. and as such understanding their behaviour and reducing it


to simple quantitative structure—activity relationships which threat of nuclear holocaust. Lessons learned from the late El

are the basis of regulation of chemicals and pharmaceuticals, twentieth century initiatives that funded ‘Big Science’ teach
is non-trivial. us that governments can use regulatory programmes to 4
Finally, and related to the convergence issue, Lynch supervise and promote risky new technologies, without s
alluded to the fact that as an enabling technology, the uses creating a new race of genetically engineered monsters or a
of nanotechnologies are less confined than those of chemicals: blowing up the whole world [3]. >
while for chemicals and ultrafine particles, exposure patterns 3
and exposed cohorts can be mapped easily, the presence of =
nanomaterials is already ubiquitous in a vast number of pro- 7. Recommendations for action: bringing order =
ducts (1600+ manufacturer-identified nanotechnology-based Ss
consumer products were introduced to the market [54]). to regulatory chaos a
Since consumers are exposed via multiple routes, and even A prescient approach to developing nanoregulation and nano-
potentially regulated products are available to buy via the governance frameworks will look to the future to the methods =
Internet, occupational exposure may be less of an issue for creating a flexible framework for regulation that will be 5
than consumer exposure in the future. If so, consumer transnational, embracing many types of nanotechnology appli- -
exposure has very significant consequences for decisions cations across industries and applying to a vast variety of ©
about how we manage and track exposure over consumer substances, and building scientific knowledge into the process. — <,
lifetimes.