A new paradigm and nonlinear models, and without Internet-based long-distance
Despite the growing number of neuroscientists and exponential collaboration between scientists across the world, this kind of big
growth in neuroscience publications, and despite worldwide science would not have been possible.

spending of around 7 billion Euro per annum, 1 billion in Our reflections over a half-decade suggest that it is now
Europe, the benefits to society from neuroscience have been possible to create a unifying framework for neuroscience
somewhat disappointing, leading politicians and industry to where new discoveries about brain organization can be
question its value. Finding new diagnostic tools and new treat- placed and understood. On the one hand, there is an enor-
ments for brain diseases for which we have little mechanistic mous number of facts in the archives of scientific articles
or causative understanding, has become increasingly difficult. about normal and diseased brains, or rather, different aspects
The number of new drugs coming to market is falling and sev- of their anatomical, functional and biochemical organization.
eral pharmaceutical companies have stopped investing in the On the other, the last two decades have seen an explosion
area. Neuroscience has had little authoritative to say about in computer science and informatics that has transformed
reducing the risk of brain disease through nutrition, education the lives of individuals, impacted society and is having
or social changes. an effect on the cognitive function of a new generation of

Traditional models of scientific research incentivise scien- scientists bought up in the informatics age.

tists to go for ‘big discoveries’ and immediately move on, As we have already remarked, this explosion seems to
producing results that are difficult to replicate and leaving the have left basic and clinical neuroscience largely untouched
data they have generated to fade away. Many clinical science and it is not obvious why this should be so.