Thierr.’).


--

OF FORMATION OF FOOD VACUOLES IN INFUSORIA. 377

ss of motility, indeed, the act of ingestion has been described in some detail ; but
e is, I think, no published account of the process of aggregation. I would urge,
ever, that there is formation of a viscous substance, which unites scattered ingesta
ng their stay within Ameba, and that its presence, hidden by the fact that the
here is often massive, is indicated by the following experimental results : (#) In
hing the process of digestion in Ameba, I have often seen the enclosure of such
ve infusoria as monads. And in the notes on these observations (made some years
) I find frequent mention of the fact that a monad continued to move in the
quole of ingestion for 5, 7, or 10 minutes, and thus was suddenly and finally
siaced to quiescence ; the statement seems to afford. a parallel to the sequence of
igression, quiescence, and aggregation in Carchesium (2). (b) Again I was struck,
at that time, by the cohesion of ingesta during solution. I may perhaps
strate this by reference to an experiment in which a monad and a green

oO
ococcus were received into one vacuole of ingestion. The complex mass was

°
Qa

hed for six hours, and, after the tirst onset of change, there was no break in the
on of the two bodies ; e.g., at the end of the third hour the monad “ found a small
icircular mass, fitted as by some force over one part of the circumference of the

Ptococcus ;” at the end of the sixth hour the relative position of the two bodies was

hanged. (c) Lastly, I may say that this cohesion was not confined to true food
Jnff's, but probably characterized such insoluble particles as grains of carmine and Indian
Thus I described the finer granules of those bodies as moving after ingestion

‘Shot freely, but gathered into groups by a basis of hyaline substance which is

anerally spherical and often difficult to observe.” It seems not improbable that it
as a secretion and subsequent retraction of viscous matter quite comparable to that
med by the protoplasm of Carchesium, which gave the “ basis” its spherical form
ad united the scattered grains of pigment.