Institutional democratic dogma, to the point where, apparently, many
arrangements uncontroversially satisfying elementary rule-of- people—wrongly—believe that scientific facts are just another
law requirements in one jurisdiction might be utterly set of partisan opinions sponsored by special interests.””
repugnant to local traditions and socially and politically toxic It is obscure to me what some critics of adversarialism
elsewhere. In The Netherlands, for example, criminal justice is envisage as a viable alternative model of criminal adjudica-
administered as a professionalized bureaucracy with activist tion. Judge-only ‘bench trials’ are used in many common
judges, court-appointed experts and no lay jurors or magistrates law jurisdictions [80,81], but generally only after jury trial
[72-74], and this seems to be perfectly acceptable to the Dutch. has been waived by the defence, or in exigent circumstances
English-speaking parts of the globe, by contrast, generally (e.g. for terrorist or gangland trials, where jury-nobbling is
regard adversarial party autonomy and lay fact-finding as seriously feared or suspected).”* Politicians who try to restrict
essential structural features of criminal adjudication, features jury trial in England and Wales typically provoke a legislative
which are closely associated with core fair trial principles of and popular backlash [82,83], unless they can proceed

open justice, orality, publicity and intelligible due process. indirectly, and by stealth. This should tell us something


about the enduring cultural significance of trial by jury in our reliance on new and increasingly powerful forms of scientific | 8 |

political culture. One sometimes wonders whether critics evidence continues to expand.
would like to see lay jurors replaced by expert panels of be- Cutting-edge science tends to be somewhat experimental, a
havioural scientists or statisticians applying Bayes theorem. and early enthusiasms may need to be curbed in the light of s
The moral to be drawn from such unlikely thought-exper- further, sobering, experience.