In an informal sense, expert evi-
particular jurisdictions. dence is always received de bene esse (by legal indulgence),
Which brings me to the third, and methodologically most just as authority figures in general do not command automatic
substantial, qualification on the pretensions of inquisitorialism. social deference. We generally expect there to be two sides to
As the criteria of procedural excellence are relative to particular any argument, and scientific disputes are no exception.
legal jurisdictions, the transportability of procedural models Indeed, expertise of all kinds is tainted by the whiff of anti-
across national borders cannot be assumed. Institutional democratic dogma, to the point where, apparently, many
arrangements uncontroversially satisfying elementary rule-of- people—wrongly—believe that scientific facts are just another
law requirements in one jurisdiction might be utterly set of partisan opinions sponsored by special interests.””
repugnant to local traditions and socially and politically toxic It is obscure to me what some critics of adversarialism
elsewhere. In The Netherlands, for example, criminal justice is envisage as a viable alternative model of criminal adjudica-
administered as a professionalized bureaucracy with activist tion. Judge-only ‘bench trials’ are used in many common
judges, court-appointed experts and no lay jurors or magistrates law jurisdictions [80,81], but generally only after jury trial
[72-74], and this seems to be perfectly acceptable to the Dutch. has been waived by the defence, or in exigent circumstances
English-speaking parts of the globe, by contrast, generally (e.g. for terrorist or gangland trials, where jury-nobbling is
regard adversarial party autonomy and lay fact-finding as seriously feared or suspected).”* Politicians who try to restrict
essential structural features of criminal adjudication, features jury trial in England and Wales typically provoke a legislative
which are closely associated with core fair trial principles of and popular backlash [82,83], unless they can proceed

open justice, orality, publicity and intelligible due process. indirectly, and by stealth.