Secondary propyl
‘nitrite in the original dose (tracing 26c) reduced this pressure slowly by 20 millims. The pressure rose in 2 minutes 30 seconds to the normal and passed beyond it. From a consideration of these curves, it appears—(1) that the constriction of
arterioles in the vascular area supplied by the splanchnic may be restored spon-
taneously and temporarily to some extent, after both nerves have been divided, and
then abolished by secondary propyl nitrite.

(2) That the increased pressure resulting from splanchnic stimulation may be
wreduced by administration of nitrite, but that after recovery of pressure an increased
Stonus of the vessels may remain for a considerable time.
(3) That when no spontaneous temporary elevation of pressure is present after
louble splanchnectomy, a reduction of the existing pressure by the nitrite still
Som
4 Asa corollary to the fact already stated, that such bodies as the secondary propy],
butyl, secondary and tertiary buty] nitrites have proved themselves the most
sactive members of the series of organic nitrites examined in their action upon blood-
‘Qpressure—the splanchnics being intact—it was found that these prove themselves
Specially capable of cancelling the rise of pressure which would usually be produced by
‘4 given splanchnic stimulation.
"2 After double splanchnectomy a marked resistance to nitrite effect has been observed
‘uring the occurrence of extensive waves of changing pressure, as evidenced by the
‘apid rise of pressure after the nitrite fall. This effect is indicated by a tracing
daken from an experiment in which the splanchnics had just been divided.
& At the time shortly before nitrite inhalation the pressure, which was fluctuating
‘etween 95 and 82, described four waves having a variation of from 110 to 93 millims.
‘tracings 27a and 27b.)
€ On giving the butyl nitrite 1; cub. centim. the pressure fell from 110 to 79, but
| minute after commencing, or, in other words, when the summit of the wave which
-gwould have followed the other four in regular series was approached, there was a
Gdistinct rise. In so short a time as 82 seconds the normal pressure was reached, and
‘Bthereafter exceeded, the waves gradually disappearing.