However, In agreement with other theoretical analyses [31,36,64,65],
model simulations provide testable predictions about when adult movement reduces the effectiveness of MRs by increas-
positive ecological and social (e.g. fisheries) impacts of MRs ing fishing mortality. Yet, in contrast with qualitative and

might be expected, and provide some guidance on the power modelling conclusions [15,66], we found that, when the


TAC is computed on the whole stock, MRs can still provide with empirical studies that suggested that the large individuals 19 |

conservation benefits compared with conventional manage- protected in MRs may contribute disproportionately to repro-
ment even when adults move across reserve boundaries ductive output and export propagules to the fishing ground a
(table 2b and electronic supplementary material, table S2b). [22,48,50,54,67]. s
Moreover, even though we did not simulate the effect of pro- Therefore, the key mechanism for the increase in fishery a
tecting nursery areas in this work, other studies [33,36,65] yield above MSY under conventional management is given = 2-
have shown that highly mobile species can still benefit from by a combination of the disproportionate gain in fecundity s
MRs if these include nursery areas, with maximum benefits of large spawners with intermediate levels of density- =
if MRs include both a spawning and nursery area. dependent recruitment. In fact, thanks to the saturating =
Our analysis showed that, in very specific circumstances shape of density-dependent settlement function (eqn $4 in
(limited larval dispersal and protection of large fractions of the electronic supplementary material), recruitment within ©
the fishing ground in just one or two reserves), MRs can lead reserves remains high in spite of larval dispersal from MRs =>
not only to a drop in fishery yields, but also in the whole fish to adjacent areas, as high local production of larvae sup- = =
stock compared with a conventional TAC-regulated fishery at ported by old, large, high fecund spawners within reserves S
MSY, a fact that is generally not recognized by a majority of can sustain population density at levels close to the undis- i
theoretical papers on the effects of MRs on fishery perform- turbed (non-fished) carrying capacity. At the same time, 2
ance—with the notable exception of Hilborn et al. [14]. This larval export from MRs to fishing grounds provides a sub- S
paradoxical outcome—MRs are expected to protect target stantial contribution to local recruitment in areas subject to w
stocks, not to further drive down their decline—occurs harvesting where the population is severely depleted and = ©&
because large spawners located in the middle of wide MRs its reproductive capacity impaired.