The infection occurs when the S

responses and cytokines such as IL-10, transforming growth infective third-stage larvae (L3s) penetrate the skin of a suscep- w

factor (TGF)-beta and IL-22 and the recruitment of alternatively tible human host after cuticular shedding [38]; subsequently, 2

activated macrophages, dendritic cells and B cells [28,29]. larvae enter the subcutaneous tissue and migrate to the small 5

However, the exact mechanisms by which administration of intestine, via the circulatory system, to the heart and lungs, &

TSO results in improvement of clinical indices of inflammation where they moult to fourth stage larvae (L4s). From the lungs, = &

in human patients affected by IBD remain to be elucidated. the larvae migrate (via the trachea and pharynx) to the small

Importantly, while regulation of the host immune system by intestine, where they develop to adult males and females [38].

helminths such as TSO is one of the likely mechanisms by The larvae mature to adult stages and attach by their buccal cap-

which the parasites can suppress IBD symptoms, whether sule to the intestinal mucosa where their voracious appetite for

these effects are direct (via the excretion of immunomodulatory blood results in iron-deficiency anaemia, the major pathogenesis

parasite proteins) or indirect, for example via alterations in the associated with hookworm infection.

nature of intestinal environment (e.g. the microbiota) remains While heavy burdens of hookworm parasites are associ-

to be defined. ated with pathological effects, experimental infections with
Given the pivotal roles that disturbances in the intestinal small numbers of N. americanus are safe and well tolerated

microbiota play in multiple immune disorders [1], and [39-42]. In addition, the chronic nature of hookworm infec-

the fact that gastrointestinal parasites and the commensal tions presents advantages for helminth-based therapy when

flora share the same environmental niche [30], there is an compared with administration of T. suis—as the parasite is

increasing interest in understanding helminth—microbiota adapted to long-term survival in humans it need not be

interactions and their relative contributions to health and dis- continuously administered. In modern sanitary environments,

ease. For instance, studies involving experimental infections hookworm-infected individuals pose no risk of transmission

with Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri in a mouse model of to others [15].