Thus amyl nitrite
' may produce ‘a greater fall of pressure in Experiment B than in A; the same result
| will be obtained with iso-butyl nitrite, only the effect in both experiments is pro-
portionately greater than that of the amyl compound. Pure «amyl nitrite has been already somewhat fully dealt with, so that reference
be made to its action for the purpose of contrasting with it other nearly related
hodies, which contain a certain amount of £-nitrite.
t; The bodies were the following :—
i Per cent. Marked.
2 Amy] nitrite containing «-nitrite, 95
(.) { } I.
” ” 2 B- ” 5

iS ” ? ” a- ” 88°6
2 (2) { oleate or ae Th,

a-

” ” ” ” 84°6 ~
°
5 (3) { é. 7 ee

” ” 2” ”

3 These bodies were closely contrasted with the pure «-amyl nitrite, with one

nother, and also with the other members of the series of nitrites in which bases

‘@ther than amyl were present.

‘a They show amongst themselves only small variations in their activity upon the
Bilood- “pressure and pulse of animals examined under similar circumstances.

z From nine experiments which dealt wholly, or in part, with the contrasted action

Sf these bodies, the following facts have become clear :—

& (1.) That the blood-pressure is reduced to a somewhat greater extent by the pure

‘nitrite than by the other three. This difference in reduction is at most but a slight
mppue, the proportionate increase from pure a-amyl nitrite being only about 3 per
nt, above the next in activity of the three mixed nitrites, and not over 6 per cent.

z bove the weakest. A These three bodies appear to fall into the following series when their pressure-
reducing action is contrasted :—(1.) Most active (2.) Intermediate, between 1 and
3. (3.) Least active.
~ On consulting the table furnishing the composition of these bodies, it becomes
evident that, at one end of the scale in this series, the pure -amyl nitrite must be

Placed as the most active member, whilst at the other end is the mixed body

| containing the largest proportion of B-nitrite.