An additional example of accelerated
very important part of the development process and available access initiatives is in the UK where an early access to medi-
with regulators both during the preparation phase for clinical cines scheme has been introduced (https://www.gov.uk/
trial and later in the development process at both national apply-for-the-early-access-to-medicines-scheme-eams) — and
agency and EMA level [74,75]. for which a dendritic cell-based approach for glioblastoma
The novel features of cell-based therapies and their poten- was the first to be awarded the new promising innovative
tial to treat diseases which cannot be addressed adequately medicine designation in 2014.
with current medicines have led to their incorporation into There are still areas of regulation of cell-based therapies,
accelerated approvals systems and schemes for access to unli- however, which present challenges for developers, and
censed medicines. Examples of this are the new system for the majority of these are within the area of quality and
the regulation of regenerative medicines in Japan which manufacturing requirements.
came into force in November 2014 [76], breakthrough therapy One significant challenge is that raw materials of biologi-
designation and accelerated development path in the USA cal origin are frequently required in the manufacture of cell
[77] and the new adaptive pathways scheme in the EU [78]. therapies and sourcing materials of adequate quality can be
These paths are being applied to a number of cell-based challenging, with a risk-based methodology increasingly
therapies from the different technology classes. For example, adopted and guidance becoming available (table 2).
in the EU, a conditional marketing authorization, which Another common challenge with autologous cell thera-
is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet pies in particular is variability of the starting material from
medical need when the benefit to public health of imme- the patient and the limited amount of cells or tissue which
diate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact can be made available for destructive in-process, final release
that additional data are still required, was granted to the and stability testing. The approval of marketing authoriz-
Holoclar corneal epithelial limbal stem cell product for the ations for four autologous therapies in the EU to date
treatment of moderate to severe limbal stem cell deficiency shows that these challenges can be addressed. In this
in February 2015.