Interestingly, regulation of
of CPG circuits underlying radically different behaviours. genes for the SLIT-ROBO axon guidance molecules are
It is not hard to extrapolate from this example how limbed associated with the evolution of vocal learning in birds and
movement might have evolved from an axial-based CPG. humans [27], suggesting that axon guidance signalling path-

There are some interesting studies with regard to evo- ways, such as these, play an important role in the evolution of

lutionary development of CPGs, which suggest that small neural circuits in general.


(c) control (da) Dmrt3”

ILS

cessed Pott

10s

(e) (a) wild type (g) EphA4 KO

L-flexor fil i i fil a a
EphrinB3 R-flexor | | 8 ii a a
L-extensor | | | i i a
R-extensor fi | | i a a

Figure 4. Single gene mutations cause changes in mammalian gait. (a) When trotting, the legs on the same side move in opposite directions. (b) When pacing,
ipsilateral legs move in the same direction. Icelandic horses homozygous for a nonsense mutation in the DMRT3 gene naturally pace. (c) In typical fictive locomotion
from a neonatal mouse spinal cord, regular rhythmic activity occurs in the left (I) and right (r) lumber (L) roots from spinal ventral roots 2 and 5. (d) In mice lacking
Dmrt3 expression, the fictive motor pattern is irregular. (e) Neurons expressing the ephrin receptor A4 (EphA4, black) normally are repelled by the ephrin ligand B3
(EphrinB3, dark grey). In EphA4 knock-out mice, these neurons can cross the midline. (f) Schematic of the fictive motor pattern from a wild-type mouse shows
normal left-right alternation. (g) In EphA4 knockout mice, left and right flexors burst synchronously and out of phase with extensors, producing a hopping gait.
(a—d) Adapted with permission from [24]; (e) based upon Kiehn [25]. (Online version in colour.)

(b) Restructuring central pattern generators of In nematodes, entire neural networks have been rewired to
. . produce divergent behaviours from the same set of neurons.
identifi ed neurons For example, two species of nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans,

Invertebrates with homologous identified neurons permit a which is the common laboratory species, and Pristionchus

view of the extent of neural circuit change that can occur pacificus, a predatory nematode, each have individually

during divergence of behaviour. In nudibranch molluscs, identifiable neurons.