The stage now to be considered exhibits the primary phases of denud
resulting from the preceding occurrences. ‘The lacunze now become very
enlarged, the degenerating epithelium which lies above them is greatly stretched
eventually ruptures, allowing the contents of the lacune to flow into the cavi
the uterus; but the lacunze do not all rupture at once, and before a comp
breakdown takes place blood escapes from them through small spaces in the epith
outer wall (fig. 7). In consequence of this, a superticial examination of the uterus discovers free b
in its cavity, while large spots of blood are still seen dotted about the mucosa,

In conjunction with the existence of these large lacune and the consequ
stretching of the epithelium, the glands at this stage are widely open, and in
instances their epithelium even is thinned. The pushing inwards into the cavity of the uterus of the interglandular mat
doubtless produces the force which pulls the walls of the glands widely a
the fact that the mouths of the glands are wider open than the lower part,
this suggestion. :

It is very generally noticeable that the largest lacunz are in the region of a g
the lacunar space often rumning downwards alongside the wall of the gland f
considerable distance. In one of the lacune drawn in fig. 7, a whole gland is seem


OF SEMNOPITHECUS ENTELLUS. 431

ded and surrounded by the blood space, and this is not an uncommon

n the deeper mucosa remain intact without exception, and a few, but

ie vessels i
dilated capillaries with complete walls are seen close to the epithelium

few,
where no lacuna is present.
lacunze themselves have no regular lower wall, they are bounded on that side

stroma; in some places the stroma processes appear to combine to form a wall
restricts further inroad of the blood into the tissue, but generally there is no
, and irregularly branching diverticula exist continuous with the main
and containing extravasated blood.
meocytes are now: more numerous both in the deeper situated vessels and in the
ted blood, but the greatest number by far are found sticking to the broken
nBvalls of ruptured vessels near the surface.
nies of leucocytes are not unfrequently seen within the deeper vessels, and
«ay reproduction appears to be vigorously progressing there (fig. 38) ; leucocytes
| § single nucleus, some of them dividing, and with two, three, and four nuclei are
s@iminately seen. Ive never seen the division of the leucocyte cell, and FLrmMrne (14) states
vision of the cell itself does not usually take place.