Hamilton’s rule, while the difference between the success of
ad aptive ness: a case stu dy dominants and singletons is the benefit provided by the subor-
As we argue in §4, quantifying adaptedness of a behaviour dinate to the dominant, i.e. b. He used mean relatedness in pairs,
does not necessarily need quantifying direct and indirect fit- r, to calculate the canonical version of Hamilton’s rule, obtained
ness effects, provided that one averages classical fitness rb—c = 0.42 x 6.1—0.9=1.7>0, and concluded that kin
appropriately. Nonetheless, in many cases quantifying the selection does indeed explain the evolution of cooperative
direct and indirect fitness effects and putting them together courtship in wild turkeys.
into some version of Hamilton’s rule may be easier or concep- We wish to use this case to highlight the fact that the
tually more illuminating than alternative methods [40,41]. ‘correct’ condition to check for adaptedness, and therefore
The problem then is that how one empirically measures the the conclusions from empirical data, depends non-trivially
direct and indirect effects depends on assumptions about on assumptions about how the social interaction works. We
the structure of the social interaction, where different focus on two issues: accounting for class structure and repro-
assumptions can give dramatically different answers as to ductive value and the potential for non-additive pay-offs. We
the adaptiveness of a trait or behaviour. leave aside other important issues, such as local competition
To be more specific, despite many elaborations on the orig- between kin that might negate some or all of the inclusive fit-
inal Hamilton’s rule (e.g. [42]), the overall tendency in the field ness effects, since that issue has been already discussed in the
is to use the ‘canonical’ Hamilton’s rule, the inequality literature at some length [19,50,51].
rb —c >0, with b and c defined as additive fitness effects Consider the well-known model that underlies canonical
and r the pairwise relatedness.