The cavity of the uterus contains débris in the she
pieces of glandular and uterine epithelium, masses of stroma and red blood corpu
and leucocytes, both fresh and degenerated ; and there a clot is in the act of b
formed from this débris. The blood corpuscles are closely packed together, forming plastic cakes or lv
and it is noteworthy there are no signs of threads of blood fibrin amongst the d
Many of the leucocytes in the uterine cavity are degenerated cells, their 0


OF SEMNOPITHECUS ENTELLUS. 433

shrivelled and opaque, but living leucocytes are also seen, though not in a
ion of active reproduction of their nuclei.

percentage of leucocytes is now much more equal in the vessels and on the
. in the vessels they exist at the rate of 3 per cent., and on the surface at
cent., in comparison with the red blood corpuscles. This -equalization is pro
due to the fact that the ruptured vessels, to which, in the previous stages, a
number of leucocytes were found adhering, have been themselves cast off, and
contents mingled with the extravasated blood. A continued supply is,
ever, maintained in the vessels.

stroma may be thrown off as scattered cells in masses, and the glands may be
ly ejected, though more usually only the superficial part of them is broken

ys uterine epithelium is practically entirely destroyed over the whole surface of
@ucosa ; a few small pieces are seen in fig. 8, still retained in situ, but from their
(Bon and surroundings it is more than probable they will be swept away before
Process is completed. PR portion of the mucosa thus cast off I propose to call the mucosa menstrualis,
ageordance with WypEr’s (82) suggestion, whose reasons for rejecting the term
gua menstrualis—-namely, the absence of decidual cells in the menstrual mucosa—
ar to me sound.
hE the deeper part of the mucosa the stroma suffers no change, the blood-vessels
1g are still possessed of complete walls, and are larger and more numerous than
he, and there is no sign of extravasated blood in this region.