Such a result appears to me amply sufficient
warrant the statements :—
First, that ovulation does not necessarily occur during each menstrual period ; ai
Secondly, that menstruation is not brought about by ovulation. It will be observed, however, that the only two recently discharged follicles whi
were seen, occurred in specimens of Stages III. and IV. of menstruation ; and it W
be remembered that the first great increase of the blood supply to the uterine muce
takes place at these stages. It is no doubt possible that this increased blood supp
may affect the ovary, and may have a tendency, by means of pressure to ind
ovulation where an ovum in a sufficiently advanced stage of development is pres
In my opinion, this is a very probable view; it does not, however, permit of ‘
inference that an ovum is actually dehisced at each menstrual period, but rather t


OF SEMNOPITHECUS ENTELLUS. 443

, ina sufficiently ripe state be present, the congestion ‘which occurs during
al period may cause it to be shed.
uite possible such a circumstance may occur in animals which menstruate
se generative organs are gorged with blood at these times, though I do not
there is any definite proof of the fact: at any rate, it is generally believed
he lower Mammals “heat” is coincident with ovulation, and in these animals it
eem highly probable that the congestion which occurs during “ heat” may bring
the rupture of ripe follicles in the ovaries.
1 regard to the prominent Graafian vesicles, it may be urged that these
; are on the point of discharging the ova contained therein, and that they
ave done so before menstruation was over. Ing Stages IL. to VIIL., that is during menstruation, eighteen specimens were
hich there were prominent vesicles in one ovary or the other, while twenty-
jecimens, during the same stages, had no prominent vesicles at all. So that it
dseem quite certain that twenty-two of these individuals, out of a total of forty,
Mot have undergone ovulation during the menstrual period then in progress,
mny circumstances ; and this evidence is again sufficient to show that ovulation
struation are not necessarily simultaneous processes.
‘1 do not believe that the prominence of a vesicle is any proof whatever of its
Rte maturity.
©. not at all unusual to find very prominent Graafian vesicles alongside of newly
sd follicles in Rabbits’ ovaries 36 hours after copulation, at which time
ded ova are found already part way down the Fallopian tubes, and I question
much the value of results which have been deduced from assumed knowledge of
Beree of ripeness of a Graafian vesicle.

evidence here offered then, points to the conclusion that the ripening of an
# in the ovary is independent of the process of menstruation, and that ovulation
ther the cause nor the necessary result of menstruation.