The estimated age for placentals (crown eutherians) is around 86 Ma, younger than in most
molecular-clock analyses but still a considerable distance from the post-K—Pg-boundary estimate favoured by some palaeontologists. Note that the crown
groups of most placental orders postdate the K—Pg boundary, consistent with the fossil record. (Online version in colour.)

analysis [2-4]. The strong conflict between morphological some parts of the morphology tree, but the tree still contains
and molecular signal in mammals is clearly problematic in most of the unexpected groupings found in the parsimony
such a context, but at least a unified statistical framework pro- analysis and in the statistical analysis of extant taxa.
vides the platform needed to understand the nature of the Adding molecular data to the statistical analysis appears
different signals and to make progress in reconciling them. to resolve most of the phylogenetic artefacts caused by
Springer et al. [13] highlighted the fact that the impress- morphological convergence (figures 1a and 8; electronic sup-
ively large phenomic dataset assembled by O'Leary ef al. plementary material, figure S2b). Nevertheless, as long as
[8]—when analysed using parsimony methods ([8]: electronic there is significant mismatch between the results of statistical
supplementary material, figure S2; [13]: figure 1)}—supports a phylogenetic analysis of the morphological data and the
number of groups that many workers today interpret as expert evaluation of the same data by comparative anatomists
reflecting convergent ecological adaptations rather than and palaeontologists, we should be concerned that our stochas-
as genealogical relationships. The problematic assemblages tic models of morphological evolution might be inadequate.
include an ‘insectivore’ group (where most workers would Indeed, it is easy to see a number of serious potential shortcom-
probably agree that the small Madagascar hedgehog is ings in the standard Mk model for the evolution of discrete
misplaced), an ‘ant and termite eating’ group (pulling morphological characters, which we used here.
together unrelated forms like the pangolin, aardvark, antea- First, the Mk model does not accommodate directional
ter and armadillo), a ‘tree-dwelling group’ (placing bats evolution, which is readily shown to occur in some morpho-
with primates and their relatives) and an ‘ungulate’ group logical datasets over the timescales involved here [32].
(including taxa such as elephants, sirenians and the rock Perhaps more importantly, the variation in the rate of mor-
hyrax alongside artiodactyls and perissodactyls) [13]. phological evolution across characters and lineages is
The results from our statistical reanalysis of the phenomic poorly understood and has probably been inadequately mod-
data (figure 1c) differ in minor details from the parsimony elled so far.