The fact that vessels rupture during menstruation,
argues, is proof that the process is an unnatural one, and in support of his argun
he urges that abnormal congestion in organs gives rise to fibroid growth, and #
fibroid growths in the uterus are common,

The evidence which Kine brings in support of his theory is criticized by Srupt
(73), and shown to be capable of other interpretation, while the work of Rerrersrr (
on the Bitch, my own researches on S. entellus, and KrizGEr (33), Trzx (75), Ra
BoRSKI (57), PLoss (55), von Icarp (26), and many others on the human female, n
be quoted as directly opposed thereto. : ‘

Finally, PLayrair (54) says the purpose of the loss of blood in menstruation
quite unknown,

The view that menstruation is designed to prepare the uterus for the reception
an ovum, seems to be the view most generally maintained; it is held by those
believe denudation takes place and by those who believe no denudation occurs. ft
one presumably believes it is the growth of tissue which prepares the uterus for
reception of the ovum, the other that it is the changing of the tissue by denudati¢
which is the important phase of the preparation. These views are, therefore, conti
dictory, and, doubtless, the contradiction is due to the fact that the period of gro
and the period of degeneration have not been clearly recognized. For my part,
consider there is strong reason to think that the growth of the stroma is, in fact,



OF SEMNOPITHECUS ENTELLUS. 455

ion of the uterus for the reception and retention of an ovum, and that the
quent. degeneration, bleeding, and denudation are due to the absence of a
Zo ovum in the uterus at that time.

gi

6. The Connection between “ Heat” and Menstruation.

we
BEVES JACKSON (59) and Lawson Tarr (37) deny that “ heat” and menstruation

homologous, while Prayramr (54) considers they are probably analogous functions.
®HRER (63), who believes in the ovulation theory of menstruation, considers “heat”
fenstruation are analogous ; and certainly his work on the Bitch, and mine en
Jus, show there is a marked similarity between the histological processes which
uring the period of “ heat” and menstruation of these animals. This similarity
pecially emphasized in regard to the period of growth, and I am much inclined to
Bit will be found that growth of the mucosa universally occurs in the uterus of
ils “on heat.” I have observed in the uterus of the Mole at breeding time and
ro fertilization that the mucosa is swollen and tumid; the same appearance is
peesent in the uterus of the Rabbit when “on Heat”; and PLayrarr (54) says
ngficous membrane of the human uterus becomes thickened and vascular before the
nereaches the uterus.
ifs relation of “heat” to fertility, the accompanying desire for sexual intercourse,
“gre which is absent in the females of the lower Mammals at all other times, and
incidence of “heat” and ovulation, make it not surprising to find that this growth
ss mucosa is recognized as one of the earliest phenomena attending the formation
Ip placenta.