Possibly the relative size of the nucleus
| the cell protoplasm may affect the method of division (figs. 16 and 17); in the
les before us there would seem to be no room for the formation of polar stars or
Isar spindle.
ithe deeper two-thirds of the mucosa the stroma remains in the same condition
itewas in Stage I., except that no fibrils are present; division of the nuclei is not
Sthey are not crowded together, and hyperplasia does not occur.
ngside the glands also the tissue is more open than in the interglandular
igus (fig. 2).
[Hind no giant cells such as Lroronp (38) describes in the human menstruating
SS, and like Wyper (83) and Mrvor (47), I do not find any decidual cells.
2 The growth of vessels,—The blood vessels in the deeper part of the mucosa are
ir in Stage II. than they were in Stage L, and the enlargement follows the first
(of growth in the stroma. The enlargement is not confined to vessels of the
afosa, those of the muscle layer are also enlarged, and further the vessels in the
%r part of the mucosa begin to enlarge before the more superficial vessels are
TSarly affected, the increase in size gradually extending from below upwards.
& the densest part of the mucosa the vessels are still very small; pieces of capil-
nes from this region are shown in figs. 16, @ and b, but a detailed description of the
eesels will be given later, and I will not say more of them here.
£8. The swelling of the mucosa.—The mucosa of the uterus from which fig. 2 was
Ben was swollen and thrown into folds; in that figure the swelling is seen to
»Beern the interglandular substance and not to concern the gland itself.
‘Zhe epithelium is very little, if at all, altered from what it was in Stage I.; the
Jands are firmly fixed deep down in a part of the stroma which undergoes no change
i this time, and the growth of the stroma is greatest between the glands; in
sonsequence of these facts the epithelium is held tightly down at the gland mouths
and the swelling occurs where least resistance is offered by the epithelium, namely,

midway between the glands. The glands themselves remain short, but their lumen is wider than in Stage I.

£ course, possibly the case with m

Stage ITI.—The Increase of Vessels. Figs. 3-22.