The major advantage of this lar approach by subdividing our primate innovation dataset
approach is that it provides quantitative data on a large number into technical innovations and non-technical innovations.
of species, circumventing the longstanding challenge of design- We focus particularly on innovations that require tool use
ing experimental tests that are fair to all species [18,25,32]. as this is a core element of technical intelligence hypotheses
Multiple potentially confounding variables have been exam- [37], one of several hypotheses put forward to explain the
ined, with little support for the method being subject to evolution of enhanced cognition and brain enlargement
persistent or sizable biases over-and-above those that are readily [20,38—41]. In a second set of analyses, we examine a broader
controlled for (e.g. research effort) [22]. The fact that this quanti- definition of technical innovation, including both innovative
tative measure of innovativeness has shown a significant tool use and innovative extractive foraging, reflecting argu-
correlation with brain size in both birds and primates [22], and ments that extractive foraging played a role in primate
that it also correlates strongly with measures of performance in cognitive evolution [42,43].
experimental tests [18], enhances the validity of our approach. Our analyses examine the relationship between technical
The method, interpreted appropriately, thus provides a useful innovation, non-technical innovation, and both absolute and
broad-scale complement to the in-depth data that can be relative brain size, as well as several factors that have been
obtained by experimental or observational study of one or a shown to covary with brain size and/or innovation rate,

few species [18,20,25,33]. including body size, life-history variables, social group size,


diet breadth and rates of social learning. While there is poten-
tial utility in examining individual brain components and their
relation to behavioural innovation, currently insufficient data
are available when innovation is subdivided.