However, there are unbound diversification dynamics [18].
many differences between colonization of islands and the evol- The neontological literature on bound diversification has
ution of the Earth’s biota (putting aside the fact that Sepkoski’s several threads, including the study of adaptive radiations
pioneering work was at the family level), which might render [24] and the use of models that explicitly fit diversity-
the use of simple logistic models in deep time inadequate. dependence dynamics [25,26]. Although most neontological
Moreover, there are differences between palaeontological, phy- evidence for a limit on diversity is indirect, a considerable
logenetic and ecological ways of defining the relevant species number of molecular phylogenies show evidence of decrease
pools, which translate into differences in the extent to which in diversification rates as one proceeds up the phylogeny
these views of biodiversity might be expected to fit a model ([27,28]; but see [29] for alternative possibilities).
of logistic growth, the population growth of a single popu- While there is empirical evidence in the fossil and neonto-
lation in a small, circumscribed, environment (i.e. in a flask). logical records of diversity dependence at play, we should
Here, we compare the assumption of these different domains note that diversity-dependence rates, although necessary, are
and discuss their implications to the debate of bound and not sufficient evidence to demonstrate the existence of a fixed
unbound diversity dynamics. carrying capacity [14,18,30,31]. In fact the results shown by

Morlon et al. [32] based on several molecular phylogenies

‘ : ‘ suggest that although rates of diversification consistentl

(b) Palaeontological and neontological evidence derrcase over time, diversity for those same phylogenies are
for bound diversification probably still expanding. At the heart of MacArthur & Wilson’s [1,12] notion of a

dynamic equilibrium is the idea that immigration (extended

to include speciation on evolutionary timescales) balances

(c) How to view the carrying capacity: an instructive

extinction and the idea that immigration and extinction example from the fossil record
rates might be diversity-dependent. However, the living The idea of a carrying capacity evokes a series of important
biota represent a snapshot in time, and thus it is not possible issues that need to be evaluated in the debate over the useful-
to determine directly whether immigration, speciation and ness of the equilibrium model.