Our current lack of knowledge concerning the =
tional approaches are not restricted to extant species alone, as extent to which scale or different measures of diversity (line- =
many traits with well-understood fitness and performance age, spatial, temporal) influence the relative importance of ‘=
implications have an excellent fossil record. It is therefore various biotic and abiotic factors limits the predictive ability ©
often possible to analyse functional diversity across large of macroevolutionary studies and thus also their application. — -5
temporal scales, integrating a palaeontological perspective Conservation studies and policies typically focus on the =
with other approaches. Careful studies of ecomorphology, impact of biotic and abiotic factors such as climate change =
guided by physical models, principles of functional mor- on much shorter timescales, i.e. decades or even shorter. -
phology and modern phylogenetic comparative methods, This is juxtaposed by the fact that a deeper time perspective 2
allow for the quantitative inference of diet (e.g. [53,77,78]), may be necessary if we wish to preserve the evolutionary and S
locomotor mode (e.g. [79]) and diel activity patterns ecological processes that will generate diversity in the future w
(e.g. [80]), all of which are important to reconstruct the func- as well as to establish ‘natural’ base lines [11]. We agree with =
tional diversity of palaeocommunities. Detailed functional Jablonski [6] that a multilevel approach is the way forward 5
morphological analyses of extant species to firmly establish for empirical investigations into the drivers of biodiversity. 3
the linkages between form, function and ecology/behaviour Analyses using multiple scales of comparison and measures 5
are a prerequisite for thorough studies of functional biology of diversity are necessary to elucidate the extent of scale-
in the fossil record. dependency and identify consistent relationships between
Finally, it is also worth noting that functional biology is also the different biodiversity patterns across scales as well as
relevant at much smaller evolutionary scales, when assessing between lineages, time and space.
genetic and phenotypic responses to changes in the biotic Experimental studies will play a crucial role in establishing
and abiotic environment [81].