I therefore conclude that the effects of active congestion in a limb after
are, in the main, similar in kind to those occurring with an increase ¢
pressure in a limb after hemostasis, though they are smaller in degree.
differences, however, are to be found in the affected limb where there is an abse
that extreme rise in specific gravity of the venous blood and blood-plasma whic
in a limb in which the venous pressure is increased, and also the substi
a raised temperature in the case of active congestion for the lowered tem
which occurs along with an increase of venous pressure.

1, On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood-plasma,

The result is not what might be expected, seeing that the specific gravity
whole blood rises, for the arterial blood-plasma constantly falls in specific gra
is difficult to see in what way these two facts may be reconciled, unless it be t
corpuscles give up water to the plasma, although the blood loses water as a who
is, of course, obvious that the removal of water which occurs in the affected
to be met, and this supply of excessively watery plasma to the limb is such #
meeting it. It is possible, however, that the fall in specific gravity may be‘
excessive amount of lymph poured into the vascular system from the affe
The specimen of blood taken from the femoral artery, though it would have
removal of water in the lungs, would not as yet have been subjected t
greater removal of water in the kidneys. For this purpose it would have to pi
times through the heart instead of the twice which it has accomplished when re’
for observation. ; ;

Whatever the explanation, the fact remains clear that active congestion
after hemostasis causes a fall in the specific gravity of the arterial blood-ple


fs GiDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION. 805

X7.—Tue Errecrs or Protonegep Compiere ANaMiA or A Limp,

of prolonged complete anzemia of a limb are considerable, and very
om what would be expected from a consideration of the effects.of heemo-
is necessary to know them in order to judge of the after-effects of active
and increase of venous pressure, but the actual information given is of
ance, not so much from the point of view of cedema, as from that of

1. On the General Blood-pressure.

than an initial rise on the application of the bandage that produces the
anemia, and a fall on the removal of the bandage, both of which are
l of short duration (the blood-pressure returning to normal in two or three
> the effects of prolonged complete anzemia are not evident in any modification
neral blood-pressure.

e conclude that the effects of prolonged complete anemia of a limb upon
ul blood-pressure wre confined to a rise on the application and a fall on the
Df the bandage producing the anemia, both of which are small and of short

2. On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood.

@ dog a limb be rendered completely angemic, the effect upon the specific
the arterial blood is is very marked.