(c) Mechanical properties

Magnetic fibrin hydrogels presented superior mechanical properties when compared with non-
magnetic hydrogels [28,46,47]. In the particular case of the rigidity modulus (initial slope of the
shear stress versus shear strain curves under stationary conditions), the enhancement reached
approximately one order of magnitude for a concentration of magnetic nanoparticles as tiny as
0.4 vol.% (figure 4). As observed, the enhancement of the rigidity modulus was even higher for
anisotropic magnetic hydrogels than for isotropic magnetic hydrogels—note that for anisotropic
hydrogels, the shear strain was applied perpendicular to the direction of the parallel strips
observed in figure 3b. It should be noticed that this enhancement is much larger than the one
predicted by the theory of mechanics of composite systems. The enhancement in the absence
of applied field must be connected with the role of the clusters of particles as knots for the
cross-linking of the polymer network. In fact, the classical theory of the elasticity of polymer
networks predicts an increase in the rigidity modulus of a gel with the number of threads
linked to each knot [48]. As observed in figure 3c, the presence of these clusters of particles
resulted in an enhancement of the number of chains linking with a single cluster, which would
justify the enhancement observed for isotropic magnetic hydrogels. Note that we presented a
theoretical model based on this hypothesis that semiquatitatively predicted the experimental
trends for the rigidity modulus as a function of particle concentration [28]. As for the even
higher enhancement of the rigidity modulus for anisotropic magnetic hydrogels, its origin must
be connected to the presence of the parallel strips observed in figure 3b. In fact, ina previous work,
we also developed a theoretical model which demonstrated that magnetic hydrogels consisting of
percolating cylinders of dense phase dispersed in a more diluted environment presented strong
enhancement of the rigidity modulus, in agreement with results in figure 4 [47].
