ideas of the origin of nuclei owing to a large number of small fluctuations (in this case, the
change in the dimensions of the nuclei was due to the addition or evaporation of individual
atoms). Then Frenkel [9] showed that nucleation can occur even in a stable system as a result
of equilibrium heterophase fluctuations. The next important step in the development of the
theory of nucleation was the fundamental work of Zel'dovich [10]. In this paper, Zel’dovich
showed that the crystal size distribution function has the form of the Fokker-Planck equation.
In addition, the coefficients of this equation (two coefficients arise in terms proportional to the
spatial derivatives) depend on the transition probabilities, which are determined by the change in
the number of atoms (or molecules). On the basis of the distribution of equilibrium heterophase
fluctuations, Zel’dovich obtained the relationship between the aforementioned coefficients (see
also [11]). Therefore, the problem was reduced to finding only one coefficient—the rate of growth
of the nuclei. This approach works particularly well for small nuclei. With the growth of large
nuclei, there are a number of limitations connected with the fact that the distribution function
of heterophase fluctuations is determined on the basis of the hypothesis of the homogeneity of
the system surrounding the growing crystallite (in general, gradients of concentration and/or
temperature always exist around the growing nucleus).

Summarizing the above, we note that the works of Volmer, Weber, Becker and Déring [6-
8] form the basis of the classical theory of nucleation. Moreover, the equations determining the
growth process are the Fokker—Planck-type equation for the particle-size distribution function
and the mass balance and/or heat balance equation. An important fact is that the form of the
Fokker-Planck kinetic equation can be different as a result of the physical nature of the nucleation
process under consideration. For example, this equation is the first-order equation and has the
form of a continuity equation in the case of neglecting ‘diffusion’ processes over the crystal size
space. If this ‘diffusion’ is taken into account, this equation is the second-order equation with