process time t (or with decreasing system supersaturation w as a result of the evolution of protein
crystals). A hat-shaped particle-size distribution function for lysozyme and canavalin crystals is
shown in figure 3e,f. If we fix, for example, a moment in time (x or r), the distribution function
becomes bell-shaped owing to the influence of the so-called diffusion term entering on the right-
hand side of the Fokker—Planck equation (2.1). If we fix a particular size of crystals (variable s),
the distribution function also represents a bell-shaped curve that evolves with time in a manner
similar to that shown in figure 2b.

Let us now compare the theory under consideration with important experimental data
on insulin crystal growth reported by Schlichtkrull [52,53]. Figure 4a,b demonstrates the
dimensionless supersaturation as a function of time for bovine and porcine insulin. As is easily
seen, the theory is in good agreement with experiments. Small deviations between theoretical
curves and experimental dependencies can be explained, for example, by the fact that the shape
of both the bovine and porcine insulin crystals differs from spheres. So, insulin crystals can take
the shape of cubes, dodecahedrons and rhombohedrons [54]. Therefore, with a more rigorous


study of the growth dynamics of insulin crystals, their real non-spherical growth shape must be
taken into account. Non-sphericity of the form will, in turn, change the law of growth rate of
insulin crystals. In other words, the growth rate of such crystals can be a composed function of
supersaturation and time. One of the approximations is the use of the power-law dependence of
the crystal growth rate on supersaturation [55]. A hat-shaped particle-size distribution function
for bovine and porcine insulin crystals is illustrated in figure 4c,d. Here, one can see that both
functions look similar. However, the distribution function shown in figure 4d demonstrates a
more abrupt behaviour than the function plotted in figure 4c.