
Figure 7. (a) Apparent settlement for parts of superstructures at Chedi Prasad Khum due to 2011 earthquake. (b) Observed long
cracks along the basement. (Online version in colour.)

material properties of these ancient monuments are currently not possible to determine given
the destructive testing would cause irreparable damage to existing monuments. In the end,
different material properties need to be assumed, and the analysis results could be dependent
on the involved assumption. However, a numerical model is indeed important to provide overall
structural behaviour and structural collapse potential, which would be adopted in further studies.

On the other hand, it would be useful to review the past observed damage to similar
structures (ie. stupa) located in the surrounding region to constrain the upper bound of
the MMI intensity at which point these pagodas collapse. This is due to the fact that these
pagodas have brittle brick masonry as a major structural component with no lateral load
resisting system. These pagodas have only a compressive arch load transferring system to
sustain their own gravity load. These structures have no engineering design consideration
to sustain high intensity level, and hence, the intensity saturation could be expected [27,28].
One of the first earthquakes that occurred in the surrounding study area, which completely
demolished all pagodas within the epicentral region, was the violent earthquake of Mw 7.8 that
occurred on 23 May 1912 in Shan State, Myanmar [29,30]. The second earthquake that could
outline the upper bound intensity of stupa occurred on 4 December 1930 with a magnitude of
7.5 in Pyu, Myanmar [31]. In tables 5 and 6, the estimated shaking intensities in and around
the epicentral area are listed as reported by Brown [29], Chhibber & Ramamirtham [30] and
Brown & Leicester [31]. For these two earthquakes in Myanmar, the reported intensity was mainly
in the Rossi—Forel’s (RF) scale, which might be different to the MMI scale used in this study. The