[35]. Irrespective of the photochemistry of Fe(CO)s, molecular-orbital theory was developed in parallel : a
and one of the first molecular-orbital diagrams published by Harry B. Gray was actually the one of : 2
iron pentacarbonyl [36]. The connections between the photochemistry and molecular-orbital theory of =
carbonyls was readily recognized as it offered a conceptual way to describe and quantify the charge-density : S
changes upon electronic excitation. Accordingly, one of the first reviews summarizing the photochemistry : i
of metal carbonyls by Mark Wrighton from the 1970s included the concept of molecular-orbital theory [37]. : &
Still, understanding the photodissociation of iron pentacarbonyl was complicated by its elusive excited- : ~
state dynamics. Early electronic-structure calculations from the 1980s by Chantal Daniel accordingly : S$
indicated the importance of accounting for spin barriers resulting from different multiplicities in the D8
electronically excited states of the complex [38]. In this respect the photodissociation of Fe(CO)s5 has always [3S
been a prototypical example for understanding how the reactivity in organometallic photoreactions and : &

the dynamics of charge and spin densities are correlated. In fact iron pentacarbonyl made its way into
modern text books such as into the one by Albright et al. entitled Orbital Interactions in Chemistry
[39]. Various time-resolved methods were then used to probe the short-lived intermediates involved in
the photochemistry of iron pentacarbonyl and the paper by Poliakoff and Turner from 2001 summarized
the widely accepted state-of-the-art [40]. One of the main and maybe one of the most obvious questions,
however, remained open, namely, how does the iron-carbonmonoxide bonding actually change in the course
of the photochemical reaction? With all the information available from the different subfields of, amongst
others, molecular-orbital theory, spin states in excited-state dynamics, and time-resolved probing of reaction
intermediates each concentrating on a different aspect of the same problem, the question really is why that
question remained open? This is where everything goes back to Dewar. Because this is where one necessarily
ends up when going back in time, passing the points back in time where the problem bifurcated into the
different subfields or disciplines. Dewar wrote in his paper that ‘the initial action of light on iron carbonyl
might be represented by the equation Fe(CO)s = Fe(CO)4 + CO’ [34]. So what does this equation actually