[60]. Lemke et al. found that the Fe!! system, after having been excited from the low-spin ground
state to a low-spin metal to ligand charge transfer (MLCT) manifold of states, transits to a high-
spin state within about 120 fs (figure 4c). It is the coherent vibrations of the complex in this
high-spin state (figure 4c) that create the observed intensity oscillations thereby complementing
earlier reports based on all-optical methods [61,62]. With a detailed analysis of the structural
sensitivity of K-edge XAS at the various energies probed in the experiment the oscillations were
assigned to a breathing mode of the complex (oscillation period 265 fs) with in-phase stretching of
the Fe-N bonds with rigid bipyridine (bpy) ligands (figure 4d). The origin of the reported spectral
changes is thus the same as for the previously discussed cases (elongation of the Fe-ligand bond
length) but the detection of the coherent vibrations cannot be overrated as it allows identifying
one of the key reaction coordinates in the excited-state dynamics of this complex (Fe-N distance).
Only with this information can the abscissa in the energy-potential diagram in figure 4c with units
in A in fact meaningfully be assigned and the excited-state dynamics effectively be interpreted.
The reported sensitivity thereby gives access to essential relaxation phenomena in excited-state
dynamics of 3d transition-metal complexes such as vibrational cooling and the dephasing of
nuclear wavepackets that are indispensable for understanding the excited-state dynamics of
transition-metal complexes.

Finally, and as a last example for studies of structural dynamics of metal complexes with K-
edge XAS, one of the main results of a study from the Sension group based on measurements at
the LCLS XFEL on the excited-state dynamics of the Co-centered vitamin Bj2 cyanocobolamin by
Miller et al. is shown in figure 5 [63]. As one of the first groups, if not as the first group ever, the
authors resolve or control, in addition to time, in an optical pump and X-ray spectroscopy probe

