was slight and the substance was gritty and coarser than that which fell afterwards. By 7 o'clock,
however, a powdery dust was falling thick and fast. Those whose business called them out at this hour
and later—those who had no special calling out had sought their places of abode at an early hour—got
their faces and hands and all their clothing covered with the stuff, and presented a grimy appearance.
Care had to be exercised, too, even by those carrying umbrellas, and travelling on the tram-cars, to avoid
receiving injury to their eyes and throats. The dust was everywhere, and upon everything. Passing
freely through jalousies and other available openings, it rested on all furniture and other appointments in
houses and offices. So early as 8 o'clock the city was deserted, and there prevailed a quietude which
contrasted strongly with the activity that ordinarily prevails. Terrific peals of thunder, preceded by
vivid flashes of weird lightning, helped to increase the depression of spirits caused by the gloom, and
gave rise to a feeling that the worst had not yet been experienced. Judging from appearances at this
time, one would have concluded that there was going to take place a heavy downpour of rain. As a
matter of fact, however, none fell. The grooves of the tramway rails filled rapidly with the dusty preci-
pitation, and it was simply impossible to keep them clear. As a consequence, the cars ran off repeatedly,
and ultimately the service had to be stopped sometime before the usual hour. It should be mentioned as
a noteworthy fact in connection with the phenomenon of Wednesday evening, as experienced in Bridge-
town, that, while a heavy cloud overshadowed the city and the whole western sky, there was a luminous
spot on the southern horizon, just at the extremity of the nebulous area, that offered a striking contrast
to the prevailing gloom. There the day-god seems to have entrenched himself, and hidden defiance to
the powers of darkness. The light was not bright and cheery, but rather suggestive of an angry mood,
Somewhere in the vicinity of 6 o’clock P.M. of the same evening a party of Salvation Army preachers
attempted to hold a service in the Upper Green, near the Nelson Statue. The usual singing and exhor-
tation was begun by the detachment, but the falling dust was too much for mortal throat and lungs to
endure in the open air, even thongh engaged in religious work. Besides this there were found few so
foolhardy as to accept the invitation to combat the forces of nature. So the party had to desist and retire