is that on-axis phase-matching is heavily favoured, and the waveguide maintains a relatively
constant peak intensity over an extended propagation length. These constant phase-matching
conditions also are favourable to the generation of isolated attosecond pulses, relaxing the
requirements for very short driving pulse duration by taking advantage of the phase-matching
[98]. Finally, regardless of conditions, the dramatically lower gas flow using a waveguide
geometry obviates any need for gas recycling, which otherwise has proven an economic necessity
in most cases other than HHG using (inexpensive) argon.

Late in the 2000s, the ability to generate tuneable ultrashort mid-IR pulses at high enough
power for HHG led to the further realization that it is possible to phase-match the process into

the soft X-ray region of the spectrum to generate useful flux. The basic high-harmonic cut-off i
relationship makes this clear: hv cut—ost = Ip + 3.17 Up ~x 142, which reflects the fact that a longer : S
trajectory returns the electron to the parent ion with higher energy. However, although the cut- : 2
off scaling is very favourable, the first efforts at HHG with mid-IR lasers also made clear the =

trade-off—that the re-collision interaction quickly diminishes [99]. Thus, under constant pressure
conditions, the conversion efficiency was observed to decrease dramatically with increasing laser
wavelength [100]. However, this scaling improves dramatically when phase-matching of the
process is considered (figure 6). In general, the index of refraction of atomic gasses varies only
slowly with laser wavelength in the infrared, and in the few-cycle tunnelling regime of ionization,
the ionization rate is nearly independent of the peak intensity even while the high-harmonic
cut-off energy is scaling quickly towards shorter wavelengths. Finally, for proper choice of gas
medium, the soft X-ray absorption of the HHG light is dropping very quickly. Thus, the optimum
density-length product increases quickly, with the need for multi-atmosphere pressures. Pressure