following. This has been already mentioned as one of the requisite characters of a
satisfactory indicator. Imagine naturally slow Cu ions travelling behind naturally
faster K ions, with Cl ions travelling past both in the opposite direction. If Cu lag
behind K, or K run away from Cu, a region will be established where cations are
deficient, a state of affairs that must immediately correct itself by reason of the
consequent E.M.F. If, on the other hand, they keep pace with one another, as in
fact they do, it must be by virtue of a steeper potential slope in the blue. If now
some K ion accidentally lags behind its fellows, it will find itself in this region and
be at once hurried forward again ; while any ambitious Cu ion, trying to penetrate

* The precipitates formed across the tube by the meeting of Cu ions with CrO, ions and Fe(CN), ions
are of the nature of the semi-permeable membranes used by TRAUBE and PFEFFER in the study of
osmotic pressure. An interesting fact has been observed with both these membranes, They are first seen
as fine transverse films across the tube, but, if the experiment be not stopped, they rapidly thicken up till
they form dises about half a millim, wide. Simultaneously the galvanometer shows a rapid fall of current,
which becomes almost nil within a very few minutes of the first meeting. If now, or later, the current be
reversed, the galvanometer deflection rapidly goes up almost to its previous value, though the membrane
remains apparently quite unaffected even when the reversed current is maintained for hours. By again
reversing it the phenomena may be repeated, though the current does not now fall off immediately, The
explanation suggests itself that the membrane is impervious to the ions (Cu and CrO, or Fe(CN),) which
have produced it, but not to other ions such as K and Cl. Before the first reversal of the current, only
Cu ions can reach the membrane from the anode side and only CrO, (or Fe(CN),) from the cathode side,
and these cannot pass. After reversal, K and Cl, or other corresponding ions respectively, carry their
charges to and through the membrane. These are now on the wrong side; so that when the current is
again reversed, it is some time before the original state of affairs is restored and the current again cut