Baffin Bay may have shifted to earlier in the season, and its intensity may have weakened,
resulting in lower annual PP [59,83]. In addition, shifts to earlier phytoplankton blooms have
been observed in other locations across the subarctic seas [94]. Unfortunately, the lack of older
data before the late 1970s makes it difficult to draw conclusions about the real origins of the
bivalve growth regime shift. Moreover, it is difficult to explain the contrasting growth pattern
of the two other shell groups displaying either older (1950s) or earlier (2000s) tipping points
(single CPY methods) as well as older CPY (1940s and 1950s, multiple CPY methods). Small-
scale heterogeneity of food export to the seabed, as well as the influence of the reproduction cycle
of such long-lived species for which no data are currently available, have to be mentioned as
potential sources of inter-individual variability.

In conclusion, the marine bivalve A. moerchi shows unexpectedly less-variable growth since the
late 1970s, a fact that may be explained by a greater and more regular export of food to the seafloor,
resulting either from a temporal mismatch between phytoplankton growth and zooplankton
grazing in the water column or from an increased contribution of diatoms due to the reduction of
the sea-ice cover as well as changes in the spatial extent and the timing of the polynya. Although
no data are available on their basic life-history traits (e.g. reproduction cycle, seasonal activity
rhythms, physiological adaptation to extreme low temperature), our study suggests that the
growth of such long-living benthic animals is more resilient over time than expected and well
adapted to the variability of PP export to the seabed up to 600m under the sea surface. Future
research is thus needed to understand the underlying mechanisms. It is now well established that
global climate change is altering physical settings (currents, water masses, winds, ice coverage,
etc.) in the Arctic Ocean. Yet, we do not clearly understand how it will affect high-latitude marine
ecosystems. We suggest that climate change will mainly impact food webs dynamics, through
cascading effects from primary producers to higher trophic levels. Effects on the benthos depend