Gghter than mercury, “appear after a month’s interval in appreciable quantity at a
depth of a foot beneath the surface, when the temperature is about 16° or 17°.” He
‘Sncludes his paper by offering “a general curve of amalgamation,” which he thought
ould represent the rate at which the metals examined by him alloy with mercury,
amd this curve may also, he says, “ represent the relative rates of elementar ‘y atomic
“and molecular diffusion generally.”
5 Gururie held that as the mercury he employed was a good conductor of heat,
Bhere was not much fear of the disturbing influence of convection currents. The
picistence of such currents, nevertheless, gave me much anxiety in the earlier experi-
“Frents with molten metals which were begun in the year 1881, and will now be described.
* From the outset of this research both molten lead and bismuth were chosen as
Bhitable fluids in which the diffusion of other metals could be studied. Advantage
“gras also taken of the fact that at temperatures well above the melting point, neither
Bf these metals unite with iron. The precious metals, also, when alloyed with lead or
Sismuth, do not show any tendency to unite with iron unless it is very clean and
bright. Tubes of wrought iron, therefore, proved to be most useful in conducting
She i inquiry. In the first instance single tubes filled with lead were arranged verti-
golly i in a bath of lead which was kept well above its melting point. Weighed
uantities of heated, but still volid, gold or platinum were then rapidly lowered
Shrough the lead in little covered receptacles of iron to the bottom of the tube, and
Svhen by the aid of a rigid steel wire the removal of the covers was gently effected,
‘Zhe gold was exposed to the lead; it became rapidly dissolved, and diffusion began,
@the tubes filled with molten lead, in which diffusion took place, were about
200 millims. long, and many such tubes were arranged in a single bath, which was
carefully kept hotter at the top than at the bottom so as to avoid as much as