satisfactory is derived from examination of the limestones which contain the gems.

= Lhis may be done either by means of thin sections, or by dissolving the limestone in
S Sacid and separating and determining the various insoluble minerals left behind.
3 Nature, however, has done this latter kind of work for us ona grand scale, and in the
= alluvial deposits we find great accumulations of the insoluble minerals which were
Zoriginally embedded in the limestone, and here we naturally obtain larger and finer
“crystals than we can hope to procure by carrying on the work of solution in the
‘laboratory. It must not be forgotten, however, that there is an element of uncertainty
2 in the evidence afforded by these alluvial deposits, as some of the minerals found
§ in them may be derived, not from the corundiferous limestones, but from other asso-
@ ciated rocks in the district ; hence it will not be wise to accept the evidence afforded
14 by the alluvial deposits, unless it is corroborated by the fact of the same minerals
"3 being actually found in the limestone or in the residues obtained by its solution.
In the following list are included all the species of minerals which I have been
8 able to determine in the crystalline limestone of Mogok and the surrounding districts
-g and in the granular limestone of Sagyin. Jn the remarks about the several minerals
A I have, however, often availed myself of information derived from the study of the
finer and larger specimens yielded by the alluvial deposits.
= 1. Corundum.—This mineral rarely presents crystalline outlines, for, as we shall
& presently see, chemical disintegration and alteration into diaspore and various
E silicates has gone on from the exterior, and the core of unaltered aluminium oxide
a g left behind is of irregular form. Occasionally, however, well defined crystals of
& corundum are obtained, and it is a noteworthy circumstance that, as has been already
E pointed out by Mr. F. R. Mauter, the Burma rubies generally assume peculiar and