membrane remodelling. For insights, see [79]. (Online version in colour.)

shrank under the action of Vps4, liberating free space on the membrane where new ESCRT- Dx
III assemblies were growing simultaneously. This results in turnover and high lateral mobility :3
of ESCRT-III assemblies on membranes. Dynamic turnover provides an explanation for how 1
ESCRT-III filaments gradually adapt their shape during membrane constriction, which has broad 2g
implications in diverse cellular processes, differing in size, shape and duration—such as plasma 3S
membrane repair, cytokinesis or viral budding. a)
External fission has been extensively described for the dynamin machinery, which assembles [8
as a helix in the external part of the budding neck. Dynamin is a GTPase motor and its constriction a
is essential for cell events such as endocytosis and organelle division. However, the mechanism of [Ss
constriction and twist by the dynamin helix has been thoroughly debated. The complexity arises
from the fact that the dynamin polymer has both contractile and torsional abilities, involving
changes of contiguous dimers at the molecular level but also at the whole polymer level—changes
not accessible by standard structural biology tools. HS-AFM allowed the visualization of the
constriction of single dynamin-coated membrane tubules [81,82], showing the distance between
the helix turns and between dimers along the polymer. These distances were shown to vary
over time, as helical turns were observed to transiently pair and dissociate. This hampers the
propagation of constriction along the length of long helices. Eventually, local fission occurs only
where constriction is the strongest. At fission sites, these cycles of association and dissociation
were correlated with relative displacement of the turns and constriction. HS-AFM findings
support a model in which conformational changes at the dimer level drive relative sliding of
helical turns, and constriction by torsion.
The application of HS-AFM on biological membranes contributed to our understanding of
biological function through physical descriptions of the molecular processes and, importantly,