(i) Intrinsically disordered proteins

While most known proteins present a folded state, intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs)
represent a large family of proteins whose structure is not stable and most of the polypeptide
chain is disordered. In addition, structured proteins often contain disordered regions, which
appear as blurred electron density maps in X-ray or cryoEM data. IDPs have even been defined
as ‘protein clouds’ invoking their dynamic nature and lack of secondary or tertiary structure,
but as an ensemble of structural conformations not directly accessible in conventional high-
resolution structural approaches [92]. Study of these particular proteins is still a challenge.
HS-AFM is likely the only technique capable of visualizing the dynamic structure of IDPs [93].
An important contribution towards a visualization of unfolded proteins was reported on IDPs
[93-95]. In the work by Miyagi et al., the authors studied facilitates chromatin transcription
protein (FACT), a protein with predicted large ID regions that facilitates RNA polymerase II
transcription and chromatin remodelling [94]. HS-AFM imaging at a remarkable 5-17 frames
per second of immobilized FACT revealed a stable lumpy structure, flanked by long tail-like
structures that underwent rapid fluctuations (figure 4). Analysis of the contour length of the
fluctuating regions and using deletion mutants allowed them to identify the tail structures as
the two major ID regions. Moreover, analysis of the root mean squared point-to-point distance
of the tail-like structures as a function of the contour length provided a measure of the elasticity
of these ID regions by using statistical polymer chain analysis to obtain the persistence length
(Ip). Interestingly, the reported |)~10nm was much larger than the value usually obtained
in force-extension curves of unfolded proteins (approx. 0.4nm), suggesting higher stiffness
[96-98]. Making IDPs stiffer (larger /») would indeed lower the probability of reaching compact,
folded structures by limiting the number of accessible states. This is likely accomplished through
electrostatic repulsion between charged residues, abundant in IDPs [99]. IDPs seem to have