theory assumes that the shape of the bodies and the compressing force P are given and molecular
adhesion can be ignored. Hence, the displacements and stresses appear in the solids only after the
external load is applied. In addition, it is assumed that the contact region is small in comparison
with the characteristic size of contacting solids and, therefore, the boundary value problem for
the solids may be formulated as a boundary value problem for an isotropic elastic half-space. A
particular case of the Hertz solution can be used for a spherical punch that is approximated as a
paraboloid of revolution. In the framework of the Hertz contact theory for axisymmetric punches,
several authors found relations between the radius of the contact region a, the force P and the
approach between solids 5 for punches whose shape functions f are monomial f(r) = Byr4, where
r is the polar radius, d is the degree of the monom, and Bj is a positive constant whose physical
dimension depends on d. In particular, Love [2] obtained a solution for d = 1 (a cone), Shtaerman
[3] presented a solution for d =2n where n is an arbitrary natural number, and Galin [4] solved
the problem for an arbitrary d > 1. In fact, Galin [4,5] presented a solution for an arbitrary convex
punch of revolution.

It is important to note that the influence of effects of adhesion between solids increases at
micro-/nanometre length scales. Assuming that adhesion between points of two rigid spheres
of radii Ry and R32, respectively, is caused by the London intermolecular forces and that these
interactions are additive, Bradley [6] calculated the force of adhesion Pg, between the spheres as
Pagh = 20wR where R is the effective radius of the spheres R1l= Ri! +R51, and w is the work
of adhesion. In fact, he calculated the force of adhesion between each point of the former sphere
with all points of the later sphere and then integrated the results obtained for all points of the
former sphere. The calculations were rather lengthy, while the same result was derived just in a
couple of lines by Derjaguin [7] using his approximation.
