rate? By modelling crack growth from an existing (long) crack upon the application of a remote
G (or K), we have seen that cracking takes place at G * G, but only for certain modelling choices.
Specifically, using the phase field variable to induce the initial crack provides a result closer
to Griffith’s criterion, while introducing the crack geometrically leads to crack initiation values
of G that are slightly larger than Ge. It is important to emphasize that this finding relates to
a long, infinitesimally sharp crack. Similar conclusions were attained by Klinsmann et al. [55]


for a finite crack using the AT2 model and a pure bending boundary value problem. We also
find that the specific constitutive choice for the crack density function (AT1 versus AT2) does
not play a significant role, with the AT2 model predicting the initiation of crack growth at a
slightly larger G. We have also shown that these conclusions hold for ¢ — 0, independently of
whether or not the irreversibility condition is employed. In fact, enforcing damage irreversibility
appears to have a negligible effect on the efficacy of phase field models for accurately predicting
crack initiation, under the conditions considered here (a long sharp crack). Our analysis suggests
that the delay in initiating fracture when the initial crack is geometrically prescribed is related
to the natural boundary condition (2.8)b, constraining ¢ to be constant near the crack surface,
and the additional energy expenditure required to build-up a highly constrained phase field
region around the crack tip (even behind the crack). There are other sources that can potentially
contribute to discrepancies in crack initiation predictions, which have not been quantified as we
have judged them a priori to be of secondary importance. For example, in elastic-plastic solids,
plasticity introduces non-proportional straining but, while this effect can be significant during
continued crack growth [56,57], a very minor influence is expected for crack initiation under
small-scale yielding conditions. Also, the extent to which a Griffith-like energy balance can be
used for ductile solids is questionable [53,58-61]; the thermodynamics picture will change, as