deviations as described in the above. We vary the forecast accuracy by choosing different values
of Y = {0.1,0.2, 0.3} and perform a Monte Carlo simulation with 10 runs for each value of Y. The
parameter v that controls the exponential decay of correlation among lead times is set to v = 13.

In figure 3, the mean consumption across the population of heat pumps is depicted for each
forecast accuracy and compared to the perfect forecast case. The larger forecast inaccuracies lead
to larger deviations from the perfect forecast case. This deviation increases with the lead time,
which is in line with the covariance structure, and are more pronounced when the inelastic
demand rate of change is higher, e.g. at 22:00. Even if the Nash equilibrium obtained in each case
is different it does not have a significant impact on the objective function. The mean objective
function across the population is €1649.58 in the perfect forecast case, and €1649.86, €1649.21,
€1648.99 for W = {0.1,0.2, 0.3}, respectively. Those values are very close, and this result should
be interpreted as the fact that changes in forecast uncertainty are mitigated by population effects
when it comes to population-average costs. In addition, the distributions have similar shapes and
quantiles, therefore, we can conclude that the effect of the forecast accuracy is mitigated by the
population effects in terms of cost, beyond the mean only, but not in terms of consumption. Recall
that the plot shows the mean consumption across the population, but the aggregated effect of this
small deviations has a significant impact on the system demand.

(d) Effect of bounded rationality

Finally, we relax the rationality assumption and study the impact of bounded rational agents on
the system equilibrium. We model bounded rationality following (4.1). In the cases where adding
the &j,. lead to infeasibility we stick to the rational decision instead. This assumption could fit
to reality, i.e. the local controller for the heat pump may check whether the human intervention