
The analysis addresses the minimization of the packing energies subject to multiple
constraints, either in their exact or in their relaxed form. These leads to a free boundary problem
for a polyconvex energy functional. The constraints involved are of geometric type, including
those that reflect the rigidity of the material to splay and twist deformations, the hexagonal
structure of the lattice, and the conservation of mass. The elastic energy is particularly relevant to
the modelling of DNA encapsidation, due to the polymeric structure of the DNA molecule, with
persistence length of the same order of magnitude as the capsid size. This results on high bending
configurations of the well-ordered DNA region and forces a disordered core, towards the centre
of the capsid, that we take as being in the isotropic liquid crystal phase. We assume that the capsid
is an axisymmetric domain and neglect its polyhedral structure. Although some viruses present a
chiral arrangement, this analysis focuses on standard spooling configurations around the capsid
axis. In fact, it is found that among the set of admissible configurations, the planar, azimuthal,
spool-like configuration is the unique minimizer. The shape of the core depends on the physical
parameters of the model, and in particular, the bending rigidity of the DNA.

Determining the appropriate parameter ranges of the effective coefficients of the model
involves three types of data. First of all, the size of the disordered core and density graphs
revealing the ordered and disordered mass distribution in the capsid are available, for some
viruses, as (CryoEM) cryogenic electron microscopy images. The length of the genome L, the
effective DNA filament diameter d (it accounts for electrostatic repulsion), its persistence length
Ly and the size of the capsid R, are also available for many viruses. In particular, these values
allow us to estimate the bending modulus K3. We also appeal to the dimensional estimates of the
compression and shear moduli of the hexagonal elastic energy, C and B, respectively, in terms of
K3 as proposed in [23]. We explore values for the isotropic modulus v and the surface tension «