to converge to the unconditional case, which is expected behaviour considering the exponentially :3
decaying tail of the rainfall distribution [5,38]. : s

The climate response for the high-altitude area is less conclusive. The tendency for increases :3
in the climate response scaling rate is now also visible for the simple Esw and is shown in all :F
experiments. Yet, the behaviour of the far tail is less univocal, with a sharp increase in the rate in : a
the GCM driven experiment, but less pronounced behaviour in the other two experiments. : =

Considering the apparent scaling rates derived from fitting to the scaling curve of the 99.9th : =
percentile (coloured bars at the left of figure 5), it appears that for the low-altitude areas the 13

tail behaviour—a dependency close to 2CC—is predicted rather well for Epgw and Egcm, but
overestimated for the more simple Esw. The latter overestimation is partly due to the fact that
the apparent scaling rate is biased because the experiment has been set up around the most
wet (and therefore humid) months from a 10-year period [31]. But even when taking the more
realistic apparent scaling rates from Epgw (also reanalysis-based but for a longer period), the
climate change response is still lower. We hypothesize that this is related to the stabilization of
the atmosphere. So, why do Epgw and Egcm converge to higher responses in the tail? This could
be related to the decrease in relative humidity in both experiments, which implies that for the
same dew point temperature the instability will increase, with a lower relative humidity implying
a higher surface temperature. The compensation of upper air warming by enhanced surface
warming has been noted in previous studies [4,39]. While the atmospheric stability (in terms
of the dry lapse rate) increases on average in the future climate, the atmospheric conditions for
extreme events may deviate from this and be more unstable than the mean stabilization suggests;
see also the larger changes in CAPE values in the tail of the distribution in the supplement of [40].