boundary. These larger spots have a slightly asymmetric appearance, looking almost sheared in
the outward direction. This asymmetry is likely due to the strong gradient in reaction rates over
this section of the space domain: the interior part of the spot sits in a region of higher reaction rate
than does the outer part of the spot. Unlike in other panels, there are no spots at the boundary in
(c), due to the zero reaction rates. In (d), we consider a case where there is spatial variation in the
reaction rate for only one species, here the inhibitor u7. Unlike the other cases which resulted in
different sized spots over the domain, here there is a fundamental change in the pattern due to
the asymmetry in reaction rates. In the region of smaller reaction rates (rz — 4), spots form, while
in the region of larger reaction rates (rz > 10), stripes form. These stripes are far more shallow
compared with the larger amplitude spots. This compound pattern emerges as for 11 = 1, r2 = 10,
stripes rather than spots will be the dominant Turing pattern. These two-dimensional simulations

highlight the fact that structures of different sizes can result from spatial heterogeneity, and in : =
some situations even distinct patterns can share the same space domain. While the simulations : =
in (a-c) show steady states, the simulation in (d) still evolves, with spots occasionally created on :3
the left boundary, slowly splitting as they migrate toward the centre, and then destroyed and : =
converted into mass for stripes. This behaviour persists even on the much longer timescale of :R
the simulation shown in (d), and is akin to how spatial heterogeneity resulted in spatio-temporal are
(rather than purely spatial) dynamics in [53,54]. :3

We have seen how spatially heterogeneous reaction and diffusion terms can result in a change 8
of pattern size or even structure. We will now consider how one might change the region on which : s

patterns occur, restricting patterns to a subset of the space domain. To demonstrate this, consider
the system