reasons is that the material properties within a small volume (e.g. a branch) can change and
vary enormously. Branches grow eccentrically, are smaller in diameter with a large curvature
of the growth rings and finally the chemical composition and MFA is heterogeneous over a cross-
section. Consequently, the material behaviour is difficult to predict and only limited information
about branch structures and properties for different tree species is available. If understood,
branches may become interesting raw materials for self-moving and self-shaping structures due
to their complex swelling and shrinkage behaviour.

While wood is valuable enough to be stored until dry, bark—with the exceptions of the cork
of oak trees and some barks with valuable substances for extraction—is often seen as an even
lower value material and frequently burnt in the wet condition to free storage capacities at the
saw mills. In the light of the limited availability of resources, it makes sense to add value to bark
produced in large volumes as a by-product of the wood industry. And in fact bark was used for
a lot of purposes in different cultures. The finding of an approximately 8000 year old bark cloth
beater in southern China is one of the earliest pieces of evidence for bark cloth making [57]. Early
bark cloth is non-woven and made by beating the plant fibres after retrieving the inner bark.
With human migration, the knowledge as well as the plants (e.g. paper mulberry) expanded to
various regions [58,59]. Bark cloth is still made in islands of the Oceania as ‘tapa’ as well as in
Central America and Uganda [60]. However, the inner bark material was also spun into cord
or yarn and used for tying and knotting. This bast-like material could be knitted, woven and
braided into two- and three-dimensional objects—bags knitted from bark yarn have been found
in Australia, for example, and mats woven and braided from birch bark (from useful underlays
to coverlets diligently worked with quills with feathers), boxes (from salt vessels to bags) and

