uncertainty measure [20]. Various surrogate methods have been developed for the estimation
of prediction uncertainty, such as bootstrap-based methods, Gaussian process regression, neural
networks and deep learning ensembles [21-23]. Gaussian process regression has been employed
to identify particular calculations within a given dataset for which the uncertainties exceed a
given threshold [24,25]. The data points flagged up can be investigated with refined models and
more accurate methods that may be added back to the dataset if their uncertainties then fall below
the threshold concerned. Such validation and updating can improve the models and enhance the
quality of subsequent predictions [24].

One major application of MD simulation that we consider is the prediction of the binding
affinity of a lead compound or drug candidate with a protein target, of major relevance in drug
discovery and personalized medicine. That target may be respectively either a generic protein
or a sequence-specific variant, reflecting the fact that individuals respond differently to a given
drug based on their genetic make-up. The binding affinity, also known as the free energy of
binding, is the single most important initial indicator of drug potency, and the most challenging
to predict [26,27]. Another case we look at here is how one seeks to make actionable predictions in
support of advanced materials discovery. The guiding principle in all instances is to seek to make
reproducible predictions.

Reproducibility is an intrinsic feature of the scientific method, whether experimental or
computational. Scientific methods should yield the same results in a statistical sense regardless
of who performs them. Indeed, the lack of reproducible results in the published literature is
of current concern in the wider scientific community [28-30]. It should be noted that chaotic
dynamical systems exhibit extreme sensitivity to initial conditions, making accurate predictions
impossible and one-off observations largely unreproducible even though their underlying