the Lorenz analogue method [17] also shows longer term ENSO skill (with no spring barrier)
compared to dynamical models [54], a throwback to the early days of forecasting as described
in §2. These and other successes in purely ‘data-driven’ forecasting (though the ENSO papers
use model output as training data) have led to speculation in the media that ML might indeed

make physics-based forecasting obsolete (see for example, Could Machine Learning Replace : =
the Entire Weather Forecast System?4 in HPCWire). ML methods (in this case, recurrent neural : =
networks) have also shown themselves capable of reproducing a time series from canonical 1B
chaotic systems with predictability beyond what dynamical systems theory would suggest, e.g. :2
[55] (which indeed explicitly makes a claim to be ‘model-free’), [56]. Does this mean we have come 8
full circle on the von Neumann revolution, and return to forecasting from pattern recognition : 4
rather than physics? The answer of course is contingent on the presumption that the training data De
in fact is comprehensive and samples all possible states of the system. For the Earth system, this : Ss
is a dubious proposition, as there is variability on all time scales, including those longer than the : =
observational record itself. A key issue for all data-driven approaches is that of generalizability 1m

beyond the confines of the training data.

Turning to climate from weather, we look at the aspects of Earth system models that while
broadly based on theory, are structured around an empirical formulation rather than from first
principles. These are areas obviously ripe for a more directly data-driven approach. These often
are based around the parameterized components of the model that deal with ‘sub-gridscale’
processes operating below the truncation imposed by discretization. A key feature of geophysical
fluid flow is the three-dimensional turbulence cascade continuous from planetary scale down to
the Kolmogorov length scale (e.g. [57, fig. 1]), which must be truncated somewhere for a discrete