it was shown that noise leads to a degradation of VR, lowering the gain factor and broadening
the response curves associated with it [4,5,15,18,21]. However, the gain factor and SNR due to
VR are always higher than those obtained through the use of the phenomenon of SR [15,16]. As
a rule noise is unwanted in dynamical systems, however, as shown experimentally in [20,21], an
application of strong enough noise results in the suppression of the nonlinear distortions in VR for
the output of the bistable system with the sinusoidal input signal. One of the applications of the
VR phenomenon is its use as an efficient tool for studying and revealing the existence of ‘hidden’
states in nonlinear systems which was demonstrated experimentally in studying polarization
bistability and multistability in a multimode VCSEL [23-25]. In this case, VR manifests as a series
of nonlinear resonances, the number of which depends on the number of coexisting states. Among
other results, related to the practical application of VR, one can mention the use of the concept of
VR applied to experimentally measured signals from sensors to enhance bearing fault detection
and weak faults in rotating machineries [30-34]. In fact, such an approach can be considered as
controllable nonlinear filtering based on the phenomenon of VR.

Along with electric signals used in the experiments with a bistable VCSEL [6,15,16,18,20,21,23],
it has been experimentally shown that VR can be effectively used for enhancement of the response
of a VCSEL to the effect of periodic modulation of the orthogonal optical feedback [19]. In contrast
to this, we present here the results of experimental investigations of VR when the LF input signal
is the signal of periodically modulated optical injection from another VCSEL. Simultaneously,
the additional HF signal is added to the dc current of the bistable laser. In such experimental
conditions, we show that the response of the laser at the selected polarization to the effect of the
LF periodic optical modulation can be greatly enhanced by periodic current modulation leading
to the control of all-optical switchings.
