
adaptively. Mitaim & Kosko [18] derived the optimal noise level of the stochastic system when
it reached adaptive SR by performing a stochastic gradient ascent on the signal-to-noise ratio
(SNR). In the past decades, the adaptive SR has been widely used in the enhancement of weak
periodic signals [19-23]. Based on the autocorrelation of the sensor output, Krauss et al. [24]
realized the adaptive SR of unknown or highly variable input signals. Li et al. [25] proposed
an adaptive SR method based on a sliding window to detect weak shock signals with different
amplitudes. In addition, the SR caused by the LFM signal is also of wide concern [26-29]. Lin et
al. found the phenomenon of SR in the frequency oscillation system excited by the LFM signal
and Gaussian white noise [30]. However, there are few studies on the SR caused by the NLFM
signal.

In fact, for different types of NLFM signal with very weak noise, by introducing the idea of
segmented processing, aperiodic resonance can occur in a nonlinear system with appropriate
parameters [31]. It should be noted that the traditional evaluating indicator designed based on
the periodic characteristic signal, such as SNR, cannot evaluate the SR effect of the NLFM signal.
The establishment of a new evaluation indicator for the NLFM signal is the key factor to induce
the occurrence of SR. In addition, the NLFM signal is usually interfered by noise. Compared
with the weak noise case in [31], the enhancement of NLFM signal with strong noise is much
more difficult and significant. Meanwhile, the simple piecewise processing may not be able to
induce the resonance of the nonlinear system when the strong noise is considered simultaneously.
Hence, the necessary decomposition and noise reduction pre-processing are also very important
to achieve the optimal signal enhancement effect. As a classical method of signal decomposition,
empirical mode decomposition (EMD), could decompose the complex signal into a series of
intrinsic mode functions (IMFs). Owing to its good adaptability, the EMD method is often used in