
Figure 7. Amplitude basins in the parameter space (£2, F) for t = 4.5 and for (a) 42 = 0.03 and (b) pz = 0.04. The interval
of frequencies has been chosen to enclose the yellow ‘island’ observed in figure 5. Panels (c,d) are expansions of the panel (b)
for further values of the maximum amplitude F and for a wider band of frequencies. (Online version in colour.)

completely for the range of t considered and they are only restored for a certain range of values
of 2 2 1. Also, the minimum amplitude of the forcing to restore the high-amplitude oscillations,
for almost all the frequency values in the interval, is F ~ 0.1.

Although we are interested in small values of the forcing parameter F, we show in figure 7c,d
an expansion of figure 7b. This gives us a better understanding of the amplitude basins, by
showing them for higher values of the forcing F and for a more complete range of frequencies 2.
In fact in figure 7c the value of the forcing F goes from 0 to 1 and 2 goes from 0 to z. In figure 7d,
the value of the forcing F goes from 0 to 10 and 2 goes from 0 to 27. In all the figures, it is possible
to appreciate that the effect of the forcing is either none or it suddenly makes the amplitude jump
into a sustained oscillation between the two wells of the potential. If we compare the figures and
the gradient bar on the right side of each of them, it is possible to check the previous affirmation.

Finally, in figure 7d, it can be seen that the amplitude basins for higher values of F become more
complex and that the role played by the frequency becomes really complicated. Also, for F 2 2 the
higher amplitude for the oscillations appears around a different value of the forcing frequency,
i.e. 2 =2, the same behaviour could be seen for js = 0.03, but the figure is not in the panel for lack
of further information. It appears that the parameter space can be divided in two areas: for small
forcing values on the bottom of the figure, the system is more sensitive to the 2 =1 frequency,
while for F > 2 the system frequency sensitivity shifts towards 2 = 2. It makes that value of the