emissions [246-250]. Additionally, reaction kinetics experiments on lawsonite and antigorite : Ss
indicate these reactions are rapid, inducing high fluid discharge rates on the order of 10-5 to 1 6

10-8 s-! (e.g. [251,252]), which is 1-5 orders of magnitude slower than estimated strain rates of
viscous relaxation (10-?-10-! s~1) (e.g. [253]), supporting the idea that dehydration can lead to
instantaneous hydrofracture. These reactions have been implicated in both intermediate depth
slab seismicity [247,254] and as possible contributors to SST [240,255-258].

To identify instantaneous dehydration embrittlement in the geologic record, we would look
for transient deformation features (i.e. highly localized shear zones) in close association with the
mineral reaction products. Interestingly, examples of shear instabilities associated directly with
lawsonite dehydration reactions in exhumed rocks have thus far not been documented. There are
in fact several descriptions of pristine lawsonite pseudomorphs formed on the prograde path with
no evidence for closely associated brittle faulting or localized shear strain [259-264]. By contrast,
there are a few examples of shear slip generated in close association with antigorite dehydration
in the field [245,265]. Some of the best examples come from the Voltri Massif (Erro Tobbio unit)
in the Italian Alps where partially hydrated peridotite bodies and serpentinite mylonites exhibit
synkinematic shear bands and hydraulic fractures decorated with fine-grained reaction products
of antigorite breakdown [266-268]. These may be analogues for tremor signals located in the
upper plate of subduction zones near the Moho.

The observation that SSTs do not correlate specifically with a single metamorphic reaction
or facies, however, but span several of them (figure 3), suggests that instantaneous shear
instabilities cannot uniquely explain these events. Perhaps more compelling is the concept that
reactions result in gradual precipitation of new minerals and/or gradual increases in fluid