the Hille-Yosida condition, are introduced for nonlinear differential problems with impulses. We
stress that in order to find an integrated solution it is sufficient to assume that A generates an
integrated semigroup and not to pose the stronger assumption that it is a Hille-Yosida operator.
Moreover, if A is a Hille-Yosida operator defined in a reflexive Banach space E, by [18, corollary
2.19] it has a dense domain. Thus, it is a contradiction to consider a non-densely defined Hille
Yosida operator in a reflexive Banach space. Since we assume only that A is the generator of an
integrated semigroup, unlike [9-17] we can consider also a reflexive Banach space E.

By means of the measure of weak non-compactness, we exploit a technique based on the weak
topology, developed in [19] and extended to non-necessarily reflexive Banach spaces in [20]. Thus,
we avoid hypotheses of compactness both on the semigroup generated by the linear part and on
the nonlinear term F. In particular, in contrast to [12-15,17], this approach allows us to treat a
class of nonlinear multimaps F which are not necessarily compact-valued. In fact, even for single
valued nonlinearities, assuming that the nonlinear term satisfies a regularity condition in terms
of measure of weak non-compactness is a much weaker assumptions than assuming the same
condition with respect to strong measure of non-compactness (see remark 3.1). For example the
first condition can be easily verified in a reflexive Banach space, where bounded sets are weakly
relatively compact ones. Moreover, unlike [9,11,16], we can handle also linear part A generating
integrated semigroups whose derivative is a non-compact semigroup.

The paper is organized as follows. In §2 we recall some known results on the integrated
semigroups, as well as on the measure of non-compactness, and on Eberlein Smulian theory, we
also state the Glicksberg—Ky Fan fixed point theorem we are going to use to prove our main result.
Section 3 is divided in four subsections: in §3a we state the problem we are going to study, in §3b
we show how the integrated solution to (1.1) is obtained, in §3c we construct a solution operator