was evaluated as 0.97 + 0.04 and 0.96 + 0.04, respectively. The Stokes-V profiles for the 1600G
simulation had a R? of 0.81+0.13 and 0.74+0.16 for the perturbed and unperturbed profiles,
respectively. The NSE value for the perturbed Stokes-V spectra and the unperturbed Stokes-V
spectra was evaluated as 0.89+0.10 and 0.92 + 0.08, respectively. Again we see the same issue


here whereby the perturbed case appears to be closer to the observed profiles for both Stokes-I and
-V in comparison to the unperturbed counterparts when considering R?, whereas the NSE index
indicates the opposite or at least that the fits are comparable for the perturbed and unperturbed
spectra. The large value of R? for the perturbed Stokes-! profiles reiterates the issue of smaller
sample sizes in increasing R*, as the 1600G simulations have fewer profiles and the perturbed
profiles will be a smaller sample again. This does not detract from the fact that it points towards
the fact that SIR has accurately reproduced the spectra, but it should be reiterated that it could
account for the relatively larger R? values in the perturbed case here for the 1600 G simulation.

However, it should be noted that in both the perturbed cases and the unperturbed case for both
the 1000 G and 1600G simulations, the synthetic profiles match the observed profiles excellently,
even accounting for the asymmetries and zero-point shifts in the profiles. This can be seen upon
visual inspection of the synthetic and observed profiles. Figure 2 shows examples of the synthetic
and observed profiles for both the simulations and for the perturbed and unperturbed spectra
in Stokes-I and -V. The black lines indicate the unperturbed case while the red indicates and
perturbed spectra. The dashed lines in each plot represent the synthetic profiles output by SIR
upon inversion for each profile. Visual inspection of the profiles with the R? and NSE values
suggests that the spectra are reproduced accurately by SIR even in the scenario were significant
asymmetries are introduced by the effect of wave propagation on the spectra.