perturbed spectra. The dashed lines in each plot represent the synthetic profiles output by SIR
upon inversion for each profile. Visual inspection of the profiles with the R? and NSE values
suggests that the spectra are reproduced accurately by SIR even in the scenario were significant
asymmetries are introduced by the effect of wave propagation on the spectra.

(c) Comparison of model parameters

When we were confident that SIR is able to return accurate synthetic profiles for the Stokes-I
and -V spectra for both the 1000G and 1600G simulations, we turned our attention to the
success of the output models from SIR with respect to the original simulations. A well-fit profile
from inversions does not necessarily mean that the output model atmosphere is an accurate
representation of the actual solar atmosphere, as this can be affected by the choice of initial guess
model and node values for the various parameters being fit and the fact that the inversion problem
does not need to have a unique solution. We are in a unique position here, as we have the original
simulations to compare with the output model from the inversions, however, we wished to treat
this test as an observer would, which is why we matched common inversion regimes in inverting
the data. In analysing the outputs, we used similar techniques in comparing the inversion output
to the original simulation in each time-step. We note that the inversion output does not have
the same height scale as the original simulations and is limited to optical depths ranging from
logj) t =1 to log,) t = —4; therefore, the success of the inversions is limited to this height range.
This is acceptable as the line profiles that we synthesized from the simulations to invert form
within this height region. Furthermore, we note that the spatial resolution with height of the
simulations is significantly better than the model output from the inversions; however, we are
still able to make meaningful comparisons between the atmosphere output by the inversions and
the original simulation for various parameters.