
The most reliable benchmark for characterizing Earth-like exoplanets is, naturally, the Earth.
By placing the observer at a distance such that the Earth appears as an unresolved ‘pale
blue dot’, we may simulate the observation of Earth as an exoplanet. In this single ‘dot’, all
the spectropolarimetric information from sunlight reflected off of Earth’s oceans, continents,
biomarkers and clouds is integrated into a spatially unresolved point. If we can reliably extract
this information from the unresolved signal and reverse-engineer the properties of the Earth as
we know it, we will have developed a powerful tool for characterizing exoplanets, including their
oceans, continents, atmospheric composition and life signatures, even if we are unable to spatially
resolve them.

The Earth is already continuously being observed by remote-sensing satellites, which monitor,
e.g., atmospheric trace gas concentrations, crop health and weather patterns. Apart from the fact
that there are currently no Earth remote-sensing satellites with polarimetric capabilities,! such
Low Earth Orbit observations typically have their field-of-view limited to localized portions of the
Earth’s surface, and not the entire Earth’s disc. A mosaic of such observations does not realistically
represent the instantaneous single-pixel view of Earth, because the individual segments vary
in terms of local time and weather conditions, and the distribution of local illumination and
viewing geometries is very different from the distribution when the Earth is viewed from afar.
In particular, most satellites have a nadir viewing direction, and are in sun-synchronous orbits,
observing a given location on the Earth at more or less the same time of day. Especially the
polarization is very sensitive to the illumination and viewing angles [4]. Even satellites locked
in geostationary orbit would not provide us with complete insight, as they only observe a single
hemisphere, thus missing out on the variations due to the daily rotation.
