Beyond, the only facility is SOFIA but with the constraints of an airplane and a diameter of only
2.5m. The largest proposed telescope diameter in space to cover up to the millimetre domain is
10m [8], as already mentioned. It is supposed to achieve active cooling in space of such a large
structure and its deployment implies a petal structure of the primary mirror to fit within the
fairing of a launcher. That is likely the reason for which OST [7] recommends a diameter limited
to 5.9m, which will be easier to actively cool down to 4.5K. Consequently, the only foreseeable
solution to make possible a much larger infrared telescope diameter in space conditions, needed
to answer the fundamental questions on the origin of the Universe and of the life, is on the Moon.
However, the first condition to examine is the existence of potential sites for such a telescope.

3. Astronomical infrared sites on the Moon

In fact, appropriate sites for the implementation of an infrared observatory may exist on the Moon,
which was not obvious before the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) NASA mission, launched
in polar orbit around the Moon in 2009, extended up to 2018. On board, the Diviner radiometer
mapped over several years the day-night surface temperature [10]. At the equator, the largest
amplitudes of temperature variations are observed, reaching up to 397 K and dropping to 95K.
However, from these data, at the North and South Poles, impact craters have been identified that
are in the shadow all the time (see figure 2). Indeed, the angle between the Moon’s spin pole and
the ecliptic pole is only of 1.54°. Therefore, at the polar latitudes, sunlight always grazes, which
has two consequences. If the crater is deep enough, the flat bottom can be eternally in the dark
and thus remain extremely cold. On the contrary, if the rim is high enough it can be in perpetual
light. From this exploration, some craters have been identified having these properties. As an
indication, these regions are capable of permanently harbouring ice [11]. Potential sites are in
the Hermite crater (figure 1) near the North Pole where temperatures as cold as 26 K have been