€ (MeV) € (MeV)

Figure 3. Longitudinal phase space of the H+ (a) and C** (b) ions at t = 6.86 ps. Energy spectrum of the upstream H+ (c)
and C+ (d) ions at the same time. The grey shaded regions in (c,d) distinguish the contribution to the spectra of the particles
reflected by the shock. The inset in (c) displays the angular distribution of protons. (Online version in colour.)

or the mechanism described in [34], both responsible for generating electron bunches separated by
a distance equivalent to 49/2. However, before the target gets uniformly heated through electron
recirculation, a shock is launched at t = 3.79 ps. Figure 2b-d displays the electron, hydrogen ion
and carbon ion longitudinal phase spaces at the shock formation time. The first plot proves that
the electron temperature is quite uneven along the target at this time. A shock wave in its early
stage is clearly visible at x; ~ 660 1m in figure 2c,d. The shock is generated following an electron
density pile-up in the region where ic < ne < 1, (inset in figure 1a). In fact, as noticed in [27], due
to fluctuations in y in this region, the target is not completely transparent to the laser and, thus,
the laser is able to push electrons at its front, launching the collisionless shock. The nonlinear
wave travels through the up-ramp plasma and reflects both ion species, as shown in figure 3a,b,
where the longitudinal phase space for hydrogen and carbon ions at later times is displayed.
At this point, hydrogen and carbon ions are accelerated to different velocities. This is because
ions have not yet outrun the shock. If this was the case, they would be expected to move at
twice the shock velocity and their phase space would appear flatter. Indeed, while figure 3a,b
clearly shows reflection, it is clear from the continuing upward slope of the reflected ion phase
space that neither species has exited the shock. The C** ions, having a lower charge-to-mass
ratio than the protons, penetrate further into the shock and take longer to be reflected, hence

