collisionless shock acceleration (CSA). The plasma density profile is far from the optimal profile
that favours CSA. The latter is usually characterized by a sharp linear rise until the relativistic
critical density followed by an exponential decay on the rear-side [21-23]. It was previously
shown that this type of profile allows for optimizing the electron heating and achieving a uniform
electron temperature, which aids the formation of a strong shock with uniform velocity and thus
the production of quasi-monoenergetic ions. The large energy spread in our case is the result
of the shock velocity not being constant (see figure 4, where the green line, which follows the
evolution of the shock, slowly changes its slope over time), which is due partially to the non-
uniform electron temperature and partially to the continuous energy transfer from the wave to the
particles, which in turns slows down the shock wave [23,35,36]. The energy spread of the reflected
ions is further broadened by the complex upstream field structure ahead of the shock, which
show oscillations. The latter oscillations, which could be due to fast electrons, cause modulations
in the ion spectrum. In fact, the thermal spread of about 4 MeV of the hydrogen beam produced
via shock acceleration minimizes the ignition energy. Hydrodynamic simulations have indeed
shown that the minimum energy for ignition is a function not only of the average energy of the
beam, but also of its temperature and it presents a minimum for thermal spreads of the order of
3-5 MeV [5,8]. From our simulations, we estimate that about 0.3% of the total hydrogen ions and
0.23% of the total carbon ions get reflected by the shock. Protons with energy between (¢) — ¢
and (e) + o¢ display a rms divergence of 19° (see inset in figure 3c). The Ht beam has an average
density of about 0.31¢ and extends over 153 1m. If cylindrical symmetry is assumed, the total
number of accelerated H* ions can then be estimated as Nyy+ <2 x 10! (Wo[um])2/(Ao[um]),
where Wo is the laser spot size. For large enough spot size values, the number of reflected
protons will be sufficient to create the ‘hot spot’ leading to ignition. Alternatively, since there
are no geometry constraints, more than one laser pulse could be used to generate the necessary
number of protons. This would allow for focusing the lasers to spot sizes of the order of the