the general case where the distribution function is not Maxwellian. Only in the special case of
LTE where the distribution is Maxwellian is the electric field given by the more familiar form in
equation (2.4) usually employed in MHD codes. In the simulations presented in ยง3, relevant to the
conditions in inertial confinement fusion plasmas, this direct effect of the distortion of the electron
distribution reduced the peak electric field by almost 50%, in line with previous results [6].

The second, less explored kinetic effect on the Biermann battery is the indirect effect of the
flux limiter on electron heat transport, also commonly employed in MHD codes. We showed that
varying the electron flux limiter between reasonable values (in the context of inertial confinement
fusion) led to more than a factor of six change in the instantaneous peak electric field in 1D
simulations after 1 ns of heating of a nitrogen gas jet. We expect this difference would grow on
longer timescales. Moreover the electric field profile was dominated by a very narrow peak in
this case (figure 1) which is a numerical artefact of the flux limiter. This is due to the fact that the
flux limiter causes an artificial transport barrier, steepening the temperature profile unphysically,
leading to the strong peak in the electric field. Figure 2 shows that this feature is absent from
the more physically correct VFP simulations. 2D CTC simulations showed that this unphysical
transport barrier did indeed modify the rate of B-field generation by the Biermann battery, leading
to an increase in the magnitude of the magnetic field by a factor of two after 60ps of laser
heating for f = 0.05 compared to f = 0.15. This suggests that our MHD predictions of the magnetic
field from the Biermann battery are dominated by a numerical artefact (the flux limiter induced
transport barrier). In addition, in the f = 0.05 case the electron temperature profile steepened so
much that the temperature dropped by a large fraction of the peak over a few grid cells. This
would be expected to introduce not only inaccuracies in calculating the electric field, but the
thermal transport as well.
