this value by the 0.8 input power multiplier used to account for CBET. (Online version in colour.)

different HT vapour mixtures, surrounded by either pure CH or CH with 2% D shells (these
shells were homogeneous, and did not have a layer structure such as those presented in the paper
referenced). Each of the ten shots was simulated using the parameters described in ยง3, including
the 0.8 multiplier to the laser power used to account for CBET. For each of the 10 experimental
shots the laser energy absorbed, DT and TT yields were measured, while the bang time and burn
width were recorded for three of the shots.

Figure 6 shows the fractional laser absorption. It is clear that the simulated absorption is
typically just outside of the error of the experimental absorption, giving a slightly lower value.
This could be improved by increasing the value of the CBET multiplier, but given the reasonable
agreement between the two (and the fact that high accuracy is not expected or required from this
1D code) it was decided that this constituted an acceptable level of agreement. Figure 7 shows
the simulated DT and TT yields, normalized to the experimental data, for each of the 10 shots.
The normalized DT yield has a mean of 1.14 and varies between approximately 0.7 and 1.7, while
the normalized TT yield has a mean of 0.76 and varies between approximately 0.4 and 1.2. Again,
given that HYADES is a 1D code, this is a reasonable level of agreement for the purposes of this
paper, suggesting that the code and settings used are sufficient to give a reasonable estimate of
the obtainable yield. It is notable that while the DT yield is a slight overestimate, the TT yield is a
significant underestimate. This could be explained by kinetic effects such as fuel stratification [60],
which are not included in hydrodynamic codes and are known to lead to increased TT yields
compared to when this effect is not modelled [61].

Figure 8 shows the normalized bang time and burn width. The bang time displays very