via empirical analysis [33,60]. An alternative approach involves cellular level process-based
modelling whereby detoxification is determined by apoplastic ascorbate, which is modelled as
a function of gsto, mesophyll cell wall thickness and tortuosity, chloroplast volume, apoplast pH
and ascorbate to O3 reaction stoichiometry [68]. Neither of these modelling methods consider the
‘costs’ of maintaining such defence mechanisms, which might be expected to require increased
respiration rates [23]. Understanding how these detoxification rates might vary diurnally,
seasonally and by species and genotype is crucial to our ability to define damage thresholds by O3
metric. The existence and value of such thresholds have a substantial bearing on the effectiveness
of emission reduction policy, as discussed in §5a.

Empirical flux-based models have their shortcomings. Firstly, there are uncertainties in
estimating gsto, largely due to challenges in the parameterization of gsto models for different
species, cultivars and ecotypes. This is further complicated by the fact that O3 can both positively
and negatively affect gsto depending upon species and O3 exposure profile [69] and that O3 can
modify the stomatal responses of plants to naturally occurring environmental stresses such as
drought (e.g. [70-72]). There are only a limited number of flux-based ERRs for yield and biomass
effects (table 1). ERRs exist for four crop species (wheat, potato, tomato and rice), five forest
tree species/types (beech/birch, poplar, Norway spruce and Mediterranean deciduous oak and
Mediterranean evergreen species) and one grassland species (perennial ryegrass) with only three
ERRs for species/species types outside of Europe, all of which are Asian species. Interactive
effects of co-occurring pollution and environmental stress are not included and hence only the
relative risk, rather than absolute damage to O3 under multiple stress conditions, can be assessed
[23]. Finally, these models only assess impacts to individual species and therefore are unable to
infer the level of O3-induced competition effects on forest and grassland communities evident
from experiments. In spite of these limitations, both concentration- and flux-based ERRs have