the sceptic is not at all clear [25]. However, what is undoubtedly the case is that this line of
response highlights the descriptive necessity of recognizing the diversity of uniformity principles
that underlie inductive inferences in actual science.

The second line of response [16,18] centres on the idea that we can distinguish between two
notions of circularity to dissolve Hume’s problem: ‘premise circularity’ and ‘rule circularity’
[12,13,22-24]. Premise circularity (or begging the question) occurs when the conclusion of an
argument is explicitly listed among the premises. Premise circular arguments are always viciously
circular, in the sense that putting forward a premise circular argument always involves making
an informal fallacy of reasoning. Moreover, premise circular arguments are always dialectically
ineffective in that they cannot be deployed to rationally convince an opponent of the truth of
their conclusion. If Hume had shown that any inductive justification of induction were premise
circular, then there would be a serious problem. However, so the counter-argument goes, in fact
the justification of induction is properly thought of as ‘rule circular’ rather than premise circular,
and rule circularity is not always vicious. Rule circularity arises when one employs an argument
to establish a proposition concerning a rule, such as its reliability, and the relevant argument-form
towards the proposition is an instance of that same rule. An argument for the reliability of a given
tule that essentially relies on the rule as an inferential principle is not viciously circular, provided
that the use of the rule does not guarantee a positive conclusion about the rule’s reliability.
That is, rule circular arguments towards the reliability of a given rule do not constitute informal
fallacies of reasoning (analogous to begging the question) unless they make their own reliability
a sure thing. We can, therefore, see that rule circular inductive inferences cannot by definition be
viciously rule circular since, as ampliative inferences, they cannot guarantee a positive conclusion
about their own reliability. The crucial question is then whether the inductive justification of
induction is dialectically ineffective or not. That is, granted that it cannot be viciously rule circular,