if these inferences are doubted, both of these lines of evidence can be called into question. Thus,
the non-rule-circular defence of the intra-type uniformity assumption is an essential ‘backstop’
against the reasonable form of inductive scepticism we have discussed earlier.

Together we take these two lines of evidence to be sufficient to categorize the model of stellar
nucleosynthesis as well supported. That is, given such evidence, scientists are justified in treating
the empirical consequences of the model as likely to be true, in the relevant domain. There are,
however, plausibly still reasons to doubt the model, in part because of the level of background
theory mediation and the lack of empirical access to photonic phenomena in the interior of stars.

The final piece of evidence, that we take to establish the model as empirically viable in
its domain beyond reasonable doubt, involves a means of gaining access to non-photonic
phenomena in the interior of stars. However, once more, crucially this evidence is only in fact
able to support the model when combined with terrestrial experiments, and so is naturally
underpinned by uniformity principles. We have made a point so far of the fact that obtaining
direct photonic observational evidence of the nuclear reactions in stellar cores is not possible.
However, on account of the fact that the neutrinos produced in the nuclear reactions in the
stellar core interact so weakly with matter, it is highly probable for them to escape the star
without interacting, allowing us to detect on Earth stellar neutrinos directly from the stellar
core. The neutrino flux from the reactions in the interior of the Sun can be observed at Earth and
compared to the theoretical value of neutrino flux deduced from the theorized energy production
process in the solar core. Fascinatingly, the quantitative correspondence desired did not obtain
when the first solar neutrino detection experiments where conducted [58]. Rather, it is only after
the hypothesis of neutrino oscillations that solar neutrino experiments sensitive to the different
neutrino flavours could be devised [59]. With these solar neutrino experiments, along with