Harry’s body was never recovered [17].

3. The backdrop to Moseley’s experiments and the concept of atomic number

In the last decade of the nineteenth century, the German physicist Wilhelm Réntgen discovered
a new form of penetrating radiation emitted from discharge tubes when high-energy cathode
rays impinged on a metal anode [19]. The nature of these mysterious ‘X-rays’ or Rontgenstrahlen
remained a matter of lively debate in the first decade of the twentieth century. Two subsequent
discoveries formed the more immediate backdrop to Harry’s experiments. The first was the
observation by Charles Barkla that ‘secondary’ X-rays were emitted when primary rays fell onto
an elemental target; and that the secondary emission contained a component ‘characteristic’
of the element in the sense that the X-rays from different elements had different powers to
penetrate through thin metal foils [20,21]. Barkla also found that a given element could in fact
emit two different sorts of characteristic X-ray: more penetrating (harder) K-type X-rays and less
penetrating (softer) L-type X-rays [22]. The second was the observation by Friedrich and Knipping
that a spot pattern developed when X-rays from a Crookes tube were transmitted through a
crystal onto a photographic plate, the first experiments involving copper sulfate and zinc blende
(ZnS) [23]. Following Réntgen’s discoveries, there had been ongoing speculation as to whether
X-rays were corpuscular or were a form of high-energy wave-like electromagnetic radiation [24].
Max von Laue gave an explanation of the spot patterns in terms of interference effects of short
wavelength electromagnetic waves, which eventually led to his award of the Nobel Prize in
Physics for 1914 [25,26]. Von Laue’s papers prompted Harry to attempt to repeat the experiment
with y-rays, but probably due to the high level of radioactive contamination in his laboratory,
he was unable to find a y-ray spot pattern [9]. This led Harry to look critically at von Laue’s
explanation and to the realization that the ideas from Germany were wrong in detail. Working