and samarium. James was fully aware of Harry’s work, and in 1914 had been in correspondence
with him about rare earth samples. In the same year, James claimed that weak visible region
spectroscopic bands could be attributed to element 61. This was never substantiated, but
beginning in 1923, James stepped up his efforts to isolate element 61 from Brazilian monazite


sand, again using fractional crystallization techniques. By this stage, he had moved from Britain to
the University of New Hampshire, where he worked with a graduate student, James Cork. While
awaiting X-ray spectroscopic measurements to be made by H.C. Fogg in the Physics Department
of the University of Michigan, James was asked to comment on two papers from the University of
Illinois just submitted by B. Smith Hopkins to the Journal of the American Chemical Society, dealing,
respectively, with isolation of element 61 and measurement of its X-ray spectrum [88,89]. The
papers were accepted even though there was in fact no hard evidence for discovery of element
61: values for wavelengths of two L-series X-ray lines of element 61 were listed but none the six
original X-ray plates mentioned in the paper were presented. Instead, we have: ‘In all cases our
lines were faint, indicating that our material is not in a very concentrated form. Our plates have in
all cases been verified by disinterested observers’. It is impossible to verify the ‘disinterestedness’
of the observers, but now we know there cannot have been any genuine lines on the plates.
However, publication gave Hopkins precedence in naming the element, and in a Special Article
in Science published the day before appearance of the JACS papers on June 5, he proposed the
name illinium [90].

Finally in November, 1926, Cork, James and Fogg submitted their own paper describing the
concentration and identification of element 61 to the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
and this was published later that year [91]. This paper did present an L-shell X-ray spectrum,