the curve is constructed that the light chemical elements (having considerable atomic volumes)
occupy the maxima and the heavy metals (possessing low atomic volumes) the minima. Thus,
the alkali elements (Li, Na, K, Rb and Cs) make up the peaks of the curve while the alkaline earth
metals (Be, Mg, Ca, Sr and Ba) are found on the descending slope and the halogens (F, Cl, Br
and I) on the ascending part of the curve. The importance of an element’s molar volume (directly
related to its density) in dictating whether it is a metal or non-metal was first highlighted by D. A.
Goldhammer in 1913 and independently by K. F. Herzfeld in 1927 [14,15]. Thus, Herzfeld noted,
for example, if the element Ag had the large atomic volume of K, it would nof be a metal. On the
other hand, if the noble gas Xe had, in the solid state, the low molar volume of Cu, it would be a
metal. The entire issue of the occurrence of metals and non-metals in the periodic table forms the
basis of the contribution in this volume of Yao ef al. [16]. It is salutary to note that Mendeleev
wrote ‘The preparation of metallic sodium by Humphrey Davy was one of the greatest discoveries in
chemistry’, reflecting the fact that this was the first example of a ‘light’ (ie. low density, large
molar volume) metallic element. Prior to this monumental discovery, the established elemental
metals were heavy, high density elements, such as Au, Hg and Pb. Thus, as Mendeleev noted,
‘... through it (Davy’s discovery) the conception of elements became broader and more correct’. Truly,
one of the greatest discoveries in science.

Meyer further noted that many other physical properties of the elements, such as ductility,
fusibility and volatility, are similarly related to their atomic weights and are subject to periodic
variations with the increase of their atomic weights.

Here again the obvious periodicity in the variations of basic physical properties was a striking
manifestation of Mendeleev’s periodic law of the chemical elements. Thus, there can be no
doubt that Meyer independently discovered the key, central principles of the periodic law of the