For example, more than 100 years ago, the Italian chemist Giacomo Ciamician contrasted the
harsh conditions of chemical synthesis in the laboratory with the mild syntheses carried out
by green plants [4]. His ideas of harnessing sunlight and photochemistry for chemical reactions
and chemical manufacturing can be framed in terms of (i) carrying out reactions under mild
conditions; (ii) looking for activation conditions that allow for more direct reactions and thus
improve atom economy; (iii) increasing the use of renewable feedstocks and/or reagents and (iv)
minimizing the use of fossil energy. Even though this vision has been in place since 1912, we have
yet to realize his vision of widespread implementation of photochemistry in industry to satisfy a
significant fraction of the world’s chemical needs.

There are several reasons for the slowness in implementation of Ciamician’s vision. These
include World War 1, which started only two years after his publication. In addition to this is
the fact that the chemical industry used to source feedstocks largely from coal tar [5] as well
as the rapid rise of petroleum-based feedstocks and the growth of the petrochemical industry,
and more prosaically the engineering difficulties of implementing any sort of photochemistry
at scale. This close alliance of chemistry and engineering has been recognized in recent years,
particularly with the development of 12 Principles of Green Engineering to complement those
of green chemistry [6]. The synergy between green chemistry and engineering has been further
reinforced by the ACS Green Chemistry Institute which has published a pamphlet on ‘Design
Principles for Sustainable & Green Chemistry & Engineering’ [7], particularly emphasizing the
need for a more holistic systems approach to the whole problem of supplying chemicals in the
future. Very recently, Anastas and Zimmermann have taken a bolder approach by proposing a
comprehensive Periodic Table of Green & Sustainable Chemistry and Engineering [8]. At the same
time, there has been a strengthening of the concept of stewardship of the elements. Unlike oil
(which is burned), chemical elements cannot run out because they are not destroyed by chemical