Just as Boltzmann employed idealized binary collisions to derive a kinetic equation describing
dilute gases in a closed and thermally insulated environment, econophysics employs simplified
but representative economic transactions in a closed society, wherein economic agents perform
pairwise economic transactions and exchange money / wealth with each other [1,2].

These agent-based models have been successfully used to explain macroeconomic phenomena,
such as wealth distribution and the emergence of oligarchy. The agent-based binary-transaction
models of econophysics may be analysed using Brownian dynamics simulations. Alternatively,
they may be used to derive partial differential equations for the agent density function, and these
may be solved using a variety of algorithms, such as finite-difference or finite-element methods.
In the limit of small, frequent transactions, these partial differential equations typically reduce to
Fokker-Planck equations. These Fokker—Planck equations are generally nonlinear, owing to the
binary nature of the collisions, and non-local, owing to the fact that agents with very different
values of wealth may transact with each other. Nonlinear, non-local Fokker—Planck equations of
similar form also arise in other branches of physics, such as polymer dynamics and plasma kinetic

theory. Recent work has demonstrated that Fokker—Planck equations can be conveniently solved : =
using the lattice Boltzmann method [3]. : =

The extended yard-sale model (EYSM) [4] and the affine wealth model [5] are two recently 13
developed agent-based models that have received significant attention [6] due to their ability : =
to match empirical wealth distribution data with only a few free parameters. In this work, we 8
show that the Fokker—Planck equation for the EYSM can be formulated as a lattice Boltzmann : o
model. However, unlike standard lattice Boltzmann model formulation for advection-diffusion 1
equations, this model requires a higher order scheme with entropic equilibrium in order to : S