level followed by a discretization of this state would result in a discrete equilibrium that inevitably
violates the second law of thermodynamics. As a solution to this shortcoming and in line with the
general philosophy of the entropic model, the authors proposed a solver relying on a discrete
equilibrium with exponential form by solving the discrete entropy minimization problem and
finding the corresponding Lagrange multipliers at each node [25]. Such an approach to the


construction of stable LB solvers for compressible flows was further extended in [26] by using
all of Grad’s 13 moments (raw moments instead of temperature-scaled central) in the numerical
reconstruction of the discrete equilibrium state. Another approach to guarantee stability of LB
solvers based on polynomial equilibria for extreme configurations is to minimize deviations
from the reference state by adapting it to the local state of the flow. This rational is based on
the fact that the reference state is the only state in which such discrete equilibria exactly satisfy
entropy minimization, and hence all deviations in higher-order moments go to zero. In practice a
LBM-compatible formulation of this concept was first introduced through shifted stencils in [27].
Later on, a linear stability study along with theoretical analysis of the phase-space discretization
procedure confirmed the Galilean invariance of the discrete equilibrium distribution functions
(EDFs) and that, when using shifted stencils (with the shifts closely matching the fluid velocity),
one could achieve unrestricted Mach numbers [28]. The concept of shifted stencils has also been
formulated within the context of a more general framework with temperature- and velocity-
dependent discrete stencils [29-31] or through the particle on demand formulation [32]. It is worth
noting that such an approach in extending the operation range of discrete kinetic models and
reducing higher-order moments errors had previously been used in the context of Eulerian solvers
(as opposed to Lagrangian solvers such as LBM). Interested readers are referred to [33-35] for
additional details.