That Study Leads, on Our Religious Ideas.’ [11].

In his paper, Stokes explained how he believed that many of the supposed points of conflict
between science and religion arose from misconceptions. He hoped that the ‘alarm at one time
felt at the conclusions of geologists that the antiquity of the earth itself, and even of plants and
animals, was to be reckoned by something considerably exceeding a few thousand years, may
pretty well be looked upon as a thing of the past’. Nevertheless, he believed that ‘instances

in which scientific discoveries, or conclusions based on good evidence, run counter to our : S
preconceived ideas occur from time to time, and are likely to occur in the future’. Religious {=
scientists thus had to be prepared to engage with scientific discoveries without fearing that ia
they would undermine their faith. Evolution, for instance, could be thought of a ‘useful guide’ : =
without committing to the idea that humans had evolved from inert matter. In fact, Stokes told : =
the assembled members that he considered such a hypothesis to be a ‘gigantic “extra-polation” 1B
(to borrow a term sometimes employed in mathematics) to conclude the form of a complete : =
curve from the mere infinitesimal arc which alone is open to our observation’. This nuanced ZR
approach earned Stokes gushing praise from the audience. The meeting’s chair, the chemist John : o
Eliot Howard, commented that ‘it does credit to his high position among the highest scientific 8
minds of the age’. Petrie, meanwhile, argued ‘that this paper must be regarded as being one of the : §
most important ever brought before the Institute. It is eminently a scientific paper, by one in the ate)

very highest rank of scientific men, which tends to show “that there is no discrepancy between
the book of Nature and the book of Revelation, if rightly interpreted”’. Stokes returned to the
Victoria Institute in January 1883, at which he gave a paper ‘On the Absence of Real Opposition
Between Science and Revelation.’ [11]. Anticipating a large audience, the Institute moved the