

For both potassium channel models (Ito and kur), simplifying the model structure is a balance
between reduced unidentifiability of parameters and reduced goodness-of-fit to experimental
data. The inactivation t plot of figure 5a shows an example where both the N and C models
are able to capture the plateau region at upper voltage ranges while the S model tends to zero.
Similarly, the form of the S model requires the peak of the time constant curve to occur at the
mid-point of activation or inactivation which appears inappropriate for the activation gate of this
channel. This is reflected in the higher converged residual of the S model compared to the N and C
models (figure 5b, lower). The parameters of the less complex model have lower RSD values than
the C model (p < 0.001) and a smaller range than the N model. This suggests that the closest fit of
this model to the experimental data is identifiable, despite also being a poorer fit than either other
model. This highlights the fact that low uncertainty in posterior parameters does not necessary
imply a model fits the data well (and vice versa), and a trade-off exists which may depend on the
goals and particular use-case of a modelling study.

Beattie et al. [16] used the same standardized gating formulation to model the behaviour
of a rapid delayed rectifier potassium current using an information-rich voltage protocol. In
their case, the studied current appears to satisfy the requirement of peak time constant of the
gate at mid-point of the steady-state curve (see, for example, fig. 5 in [16]). Based on these
observations and our results, this standardized approach may, therefore, be appropriate in cases
when experimental data suggests particular requirements, such as this one, are met. Using a
standard gating formulation alleviates problems associated with the high number of parameters
in very detailed models, without sacrificing the biophysical basis for the model. In contrast to
purely phenomenological models, the form of the S model is based on Eyring-derived transition