(see equation (4.7)). Although this is, formally, a correct statement it does not entirely capture
the nature of equation (4.7). Note that the VO a(t, x;,x;), which enters equation (4.7) via the term
Ki depends implicitly on the displacements x; of the individual particles, and, therefore, it can
only be determined by solving the entire system of equations for the lattice in the fractional form.
Hence, the governing equation obtained by using the interaction force F; in equation (4.1) results
ina VO FDE.

We also emphasize that, although a quadratic potential is used in this study, the formulation
presented above is general and the functional form of kj and of the corresponding order
variation can be chosen to account for different potential distributions. The potential distributions
commonly used in the literature lead to a spatial decay in the strength of interaction between
two particles, before reaching the final annihilation of their bond. This spatial decay can also be
modelled using the VO-RL derivative of a constant. In fact, from equation (3.1), it is seen that the
RL derivative of a constant decays with the independent variable. Thus, it appears that any spatial
decay in the bond strengths can also be modelled by using a space-fractional RL derivative. This
decay rate can be tuned using an appropriate order variation which is functionally dependent on
the selected potential field.

Finally, note that the specific VO given in equation (4.3) implies a reversible nature of the
interaction. In other terms, the annihilation of the bond between two particles, when it occurs,
is not permanent. The particles can bond again once the distance between them is less than
do units. At first glance, this might appear surprising because time-fractional operators imply
memory effects. Although this is certainly true, in our model, the fractional differential operator
is applied to a constant function. This approach allows using the VO fractional operator as a
nonlinear switch-like term that determines if existing bonds are broken or new ones are created.