
Finally, note that the specific VO given in equation (4.3) implies a reversible nature of the
interaction. In other terms, the annihilation of the bond between two particles, when it occurs,
is not permanent. The particles can bond again once the distance between them is less than
do units. At first glance, this might appear surprising because time-fractional operators imply
memory effects. Although this is certainly true, in our model, the fractional differential operator
is applied to a constant function. This approach allows using the VO fractional operator as a
nonlinear switch-like term that determines if existing bonds are broken or new ones are created.
While this fractional operator could, potentially, be designed to account for memory effects (as an


example, to track the evolution of the rate of stretch in a bond), in this study we did not account
for it. In fact, we used a steep exponential function to achieve a rapid change of the bond state
(i.e. to achieve either formation or annihilation). We merely note that the VO can also be crafted
to account for an irreversible (permanent) bond annihilation. Such a case was explored in [42] in
the context of classical mechanics, where irreversibility due to plastic deformation was captured
by using direction-dependent terms in the order variation. Note that, considering the present
case of particle dynamics, the lattice configuration (identified via the instantaneous position of
the individual particles) experiences a non-reversible deformation that results from the sliding
motion of the dislocation. In this case, following the removal of the applied external forces, the
particles do not get back to their original positions. At the same time, for certain configurations
(namely, those where the dislocation plane does not get locked upon sliding, such as the locking
occurring in figure 2), the application of a system of forces having same magnitude but opposite
direction to the one generating the initial sliding motion, can effectively reverse the motion of
the dislocation. In the latter situation, the dislocation could potentially get back to its original