studying the eigenvalues of the Hessian of the Hamiltonian evaluated at X*. The key point in this
analysis is the particular block structure of the Hessian that allows at once analytical expressions
of all eigenvalues, for an arbitrary number N of vortices in the ring, and, at the same time, to
symplectically diagonalize the corresponding linearized system. We do observe that for all N we


do not have linear stability at the equator. For a ring in the Northern Hemisphere, for a given
colatitude 6,, we need a higher value of the northern polar vortex, I; np for a higher value of
N, as shown in figure 6. This amounts to saying that for a ring configuration in the Northern
Hemisphere a sufficiently high northern polar vortex stabilizes a configuration at a given latitude.
In particular for N > 7, a stable configuration is only possible for a sufficiently high positive Imp.
Similarly, we have the corresponding situation for the Southern Hemisphere when the southern
polar vortex is sufficiently high, i.e. for sufficiently negative values of Imp—due to the fact that
Typ =—N — Ip.

The scenario becomes richer and the analysis more complex when the polar vortices are left
not fixed at the poles. In this case, the Hessian of the Hamiltonian has off diagonal terms. Our
theoretical and numerical studies now guarantee a spectral stability region (and a part of it which
is the Lyapunov stability region) smaller than for the case of fixed polar vortices. In particular,
as shown in figure 8, now the guaranteed region of stability in the Northern Hemisphere is also
limited to the right. In [8], we consider a general setting (i.e. sum of the vortex strengths different
from zero, which can be compensated by a distributed micro-vorticity) and analyse the source
of the different stable/unstable zones. In some of the cases, this is due to Hamiltonian—Hopf
bifurcations, created or destroyed when two imaginary eigenvalues of the JG2 matrix coincide. A
theoretical study of the location of the double zeros of the characteristic polynomial is included.