action involved in all physical interactions [18, pp. 3-4]. Regarding the completeness of quantum iS
mechanics, Bohr argued that ‘It is against this [the above] background that quantum mechanics :§
may be seen to fulfil all demands on rational explanation with respect to consistency and : =
completeness... Moreover, a completeness of description like that aimed at in classical physics : Es
is provided by the possibility [within it] of taking every conceivable experimental arrangement [3
into account.’ [18, p. 6]. : >

Heisenberg argued that it is impossible to further describe quantum mechanics by exploiting : 8
the division of the elements involved in measurement into those which are chosen to be described as)
classically (the apparatus) and those which are quantum (the object system) or by altering them in :<
any way. Indeed, he already presented specific arguments to this effect in 1934-1935, having even : >
as early as 1927 argued against the possibility of doing so using (what are now called contextual) 3
hidden variables [26,27]. In fact, it was at this point that a distinction between contextuality and : 8
non-contextuality vis-a-vis hidden variables models was first made in the second section of his : 3
response to Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR). ‘And we assume specifically: this statement 8

should hold independently of the means of observation that are used to detect the a-particles.
One might at first be tempted to drop this last special assumption, and take into account that
the radioactive emission can also depend on the properties of the means of observation’ (cf. [27,
Sect. 3.2]. Thus, Heisenberg clearly ‘recognises as a separate assumption that hidden variables are
to be considered independently of the means of observation’ ([27], emphasis mine), that is to be
non-contextual versus the more non-trivial case wherein context must be taken into account.

Heisenberg noted that even in a classical situation if the system under measurement and the
apparatus are not entirely separate from the rest of the world even knowledge of every detail