were aware of, but generally ignored, the questions Riemann had raised over the continuity
of space [25,27] although they exploited his suggestion of multiply-connected space; their use
of differential equations was predicated on continuity and the idea that force represented a
continuous change in some state. In the 1850s Kelvin, Rankine, and other North British physicists
defined that state as ‘energy’ by drawing on potential theory and Hamilton’s formulation of
Lagrangian mechanics, and appropriating to their own needs the distinction Helmholtz had
established between quantity and intensity of force; ‘quantity of force’ became ‘energy’ [3,22,37,
pp. 617-619]. For them ‘dynamical’ connoted systems that could be analysed as matter in motion
in a continuous medium using Lagrangian methods with energy as the foundational concept. By
the 1860s and 70s energy was replacing force as the fundamental, conserved, basis of physics. In


1870 Clifford considered that for the majority of scientists, ‘Force is regarded as the great fact that
lies at the bottom of all things’, but that this view was being superseded [38, p. 121]. A few years
later Tait opined that, ‘in another century [force] will probably have lost all but a mere antiquarian
interest.’ [39, p. xiv].

As a major proponent of the new energy programme in physics, Tait further claimed that
‘[energy] has been shown to have as much claim to objective reality as matter has’, because it was
conserved [39, p. 4]. But his view was still contentious. Clifford was one of those who objected.
He disputed Tait’s assertion, that matter and energy were objectively real because they were
conserved, on philosophical grounds and pointed out that our knowledge of the conservation
of both was limited by the accuracy of experiment. Claims of absolute conservation rested on an
unjustified extrapolation from macroscopic experience. Similarly, theories of matter based on the
ether rested on a mathematical fiction, a continuous perfect fluid, extrapolated from macroscopic