distribution of (X, Y) and (Y, Z) implies that of (X, Y, Z). This implies transitivity but is not equivalent to it.


However, it then follows that (3.5) cannot ever hold. Put differently, if (3.3) is a system (implying, in
particular, that the joint distributions within contexts are well defined), then this system can only
be non-contextual. Therefore, if it happens that (3.5) holds for this system, then one has a true
contradiction on one’s hands, and this contradiction cannot be resolved within the framework
of (3.3). It can only be resolved by explicating and rejecting some hidden assumptions—and in
this case the culprit is the assumption that the random variables measuring the same content in
different contexts are the same.

This problem is ubiquitous in the traditional literature succeeding [7], although its critical
analysis is complicated by the fact that many authors would refer to elements of (3.3) as
measurements or observables rather than random variables. I take it as a given, however, that the
notion of a distribution of R;, or the probability of R; being equal to some value, can only be used
if R; is a random variable. With this in mind, the contradiction just described can only be resolved
by using contextual notation, and CbD offers a straightforward way of doing this. However,
contextual notation can also be applied to probabilities rather than random variables per se, and
this seems to be the way chosen in some of the contemporary literature. Thus, Khrennikov [32,37]
proposes labelling of the form Pr[R; =r|c =], calling this ‘contextual probabilities’ and warning
against identifying them with conditional probabilities. Liang et al. [17] use essentially the same
notation (if one considers quantum preparations part of contexts). Abramsky and colleagues
[9,10] developed a similar system in which e, denotes the joint probability of all random variables
in context c, and distributions of their subsets are treated as specializations: e.g. the distribution
of Ri in c=3 would be denoted e-=3|7=1. Contextual notation for probabilities, the same as