which has given quantum foundations a bad reputation among physicists working in other
disciplines. In this paper, two quite distinct usages of ‘(non)contextual’ will be discussed. One
is due to Bell, and appears in older work on quantum foundations; for this, I will use the term
‘Bell (non)contextual’. It is discussed in §§2—4. The other is frequently found in more recent work
and for it I use the term ‘global (non)contextual’. A precise definition, motivated by the work of
Abramsky et al. [1], is presented in §5. There are undoubtedly other definitions to be found in the
literature, but in the present work I limit myself to these two.

As the title suggests, my aim is to relate ‘(non)contextual’ to the topic of quantum
measurements. Here, there is enormous confusion, as exemplified by the well-known measurement
problem. Alas, ‘measurement’ is another term often used in quantum foundations without a
clear meaning, so of necessity any discussion of how it relates to contextuality must be based
on some understanding of, if not solution to, the measurement problem. In fact, there are (at
least) two measurement problems. The first, widely discussed, problem is how to think about
the macroscopic outcome of a measurement, traditionally referred to as a pointer position, since
unitary time evolution often results in a quantum superposition (Schrédinger cat) of possible
measurement outcomes. The second, less discussed but equally important, is how to infer from
the macroscopic outcome the earlier microscopic property that the apparatus was designed to
measure. Both problems are discussed in §3. The second is the one most intimately connected to
notions of quantum contextuality.

The approach employed in the remainder of this paper is, without apology, based upon the
consistent histories (CH), or decoherent histories interpretation of quantum mechanics. It is, so far
as I know, the only interpretation presently available which can provide a complete solution to
both measurement problems. There is no room ina short article to reproduce its essential features;