
When these heritage structures were designed and built, far less was understood about the nature
of environmental loading and structural response. Civil Engineering standards were generally
not developed until the end of the nineteenth century; for wave loading in particular, the seminal
research on interactions with walls did not take place until well into the twentieth century when
wave loading on walls was investigated by Hiroi in 1919 [16] and waves on cylinders by a team
led by Morison in 1950 [17]. Domede & Fady [7] provide a historical review of wind loading that
was used in the design of the Ile Vierge lighthouse, developed by the British lighthouse engineer
John Smeaton, making a comparison to modern Eurocodes. They discover that the lighthouse was
over-designed, with a safety factor of approximately 10. Carter et al. [12] considered the unusual
steel transporter bridges located in Newport, Wales, and Middleborough, northeast England,
built more than 100 years ago. They reveal that the survival of the steel transporter bridges is due
in part to the fact that wind loading on each structural element was applied with no consideration
of the sheltering of neighbouring elements.


Considering a statistical description of loads, extreme environmental design conditions
have been historically defined by means of classical stationary extreme values analysis theory.
Unfortunately, we are facing a period of accelerating climate change which might result in most
previously identified design parameters being obsolete. Hence, the development of advanced
techniques for non-stationary extreme analysis investigation is a priority in order to properly
consider climate change effects within design parameters. Moreover, as field measurements are
usually rare, the scarcity of data arises as an additional difficulty, implying a great amount of
uncertainty on the estimation of the design parameters. In this light, Bayesian inference can be
successfully used to deal with this unavoidable uncertainty of the results, incorporating different