observed scatter in the experimental results. Presently, models for predicting dynamic response
in such mixed-mode scenarios are limited to the combination of ice crushing and buckling [41].

Even though the structure is almost symmetric, there may be differences in the modes
depending on the direction of excitation. The recordings ranging from 23 to 30 in figure 13b
display identified frequencies that resemble straight lines. For all these recordings, the interaction
was governed by flexural failures, the ice-drift direction was from south to south-southwest and
the air temperature was warmer than —2°C.

Attempts were made to test whether the data were inaccurate at low vibration amplitudes by
sorting out the recorded events with the highest standard deviations of the acceleration; however,
no clear indication was found. Similar results were also obtained using the UPC algorithm instead
of the SSI-cov/ref. It is, however, a fact that this is an imperfect axisymmetric problem with
asymmetric mass distribution at the waterline caused by the heavy force panels and varying mass
distribution due to ice rubble. Further, an unknown extent of nonlinearity is involved and the
system identification is handled with only a few sensors. An attempt was also made to investigate
whether the first eigenmode had preferred mode shape alignments in the horizontal plane. Only
vague indications of the preferred directions were found, but the results highly depend on the
slack values for the automated selection of modes, and such analysis lies beyond the scope of this
study. Owing to the few sensor locations, the identified mode shapes and their variances were also
not considered in this study. By using a hierarchy clustering method as described in [42], similar
results as shown in figure 11b were obtained when low importance was assigned to the weights
for the MAC-values and clusters with few poles were discarded. It must also be noted that the
identified eigenfrequencies indicate that the FE model contained modelling errors. Updating the
model would benefit numerical simulations in the future, but it does not influence the conclusions