
Figure 12. Experimental observation of a chimera state using a single feedback loop implementation of a globally coupled
network. (a) Illustration of the globally coupled network that was implemented in [34]. The shading indicates the pattern of
synchrony that was observed: nodes that are the same colour are in the same synchronous cluster. All nodes are truly identical.
(6) Experimentally measured time series. The dotted black lines indicate one network time step. (c) Space-time representation
of the time series shown in (6). The parameters used for the measurement are 6 = 2.3, 0 = 0.23, 6 = 11/4. (Online version
in colour.)

nodes 2, 4, 5 or 7; yet, the red cluster still synchronizes, as shown in figure 11c. These experiments
confirm the stability of such so-called equitable partition cluster synchronization [35].

As mentioned in ยง7, a chimera state is a dynamical state of a network in which the nodes split
up into a coherent set and an incoherent set despite the fact that they are all identical and coupled
identically [38,39]. The chimeras in ยง7 were observed in a network with circularly symmetric
coupling and many nodes. Using the system shown in figure 10, we were able to observe a
chimera state in a 5 node globally coupled network [34]. The experimental results are shown in
figure 12. The globally coupled network and associated adjacency matrix are shown in figure 12a.
The colours denote the set of synchronized nodes: the blue nodes (0,2,3) are in the coherent set,
and the red and black nodes are desynchronized both with the blue nodes and with each other.
All nodes are truly identical. Figure 12b shows the time series, where the dotted lines denote the
increments of the network time step 1. Figure 12c shows the space-time representation of the
time series, which clearly shows that nodes 0,2 and 3 are synchronized, and nodes 1 and 4 are
desynchronized from all nodes. Linear stability calculations confirm that these chimera states are
linearly stable [34].
