shaping used, and in the Nyquist limit (using sinc-shaped pulses), PAM could be twice as
spectrally efficient as shown; detailed comparisons for a range of modulator bandwidths are given
in the papers of Sharif et al. [2] and Perin et al. [3]. In these PAM simulations, the transmitted pulses
were unshaped, and the electrical receiver noise was band-limited by a fourth-order Bessel filter
with a bandwidth of 70% of the data rate. For IM-DD systems dominated by the thermal noise of
the receiver (typically systems without optical amplification), the electrical SNR will improve 2 dB
for each 1dB increase in received optical power, due to the photodiode’s square-law detection
(IM/DD), where photocurrent is proportional to optical power. Thus, the ‘cost’ of increased
spectral efficiency, in terms of optical power (dB), is half that shown by figure 6. Although ACO-
OFDM provides the lowest SNR cost at low spectral efficiencies, its SNR cost rapidly increases
with spectral efficiency. This is because ACO-OFDM requires a constellation size of m-squared
compared with schemes that do not have a loss of half the subcarriers, e.g. 1024 constellation
points rather than 32 for schemes with full spectral efficiency. This fact makes layered schemes
very attractive for high spectral efficiencies because the extra data are carried by additional layers
rather than by increasing 1; however, layered schemes have their own cost per layer, because
every layer contributes to the mean optical power, so for a constant optical power, each layer
must be allocated less power as the number of layers is increased.

For ease of comparisons, in figure 6, none of the schemes in the figure have diversity combining
nor noise cancellation as applied to layered systems by Wang et al. [49] and later by Mohammed
et al. [38], then Wang et al. [50] using soft successive interference cancellation. By taking QPSK
ACO-OFDM as the reference for SNR cost, Mohammed ef al.’s fig. 5 can be used by subtracting
approximately 5 dB from their optical energy per bit, Ep(opt)/No, to obtain the electrical SNR cost
of figure 6. Note that their optical energy does not scale as the square-root of electrical SNR as
expected for an IM/DD system. This is because the optical power is derived from the expectation