issues—such as the provision of water—into technical, apolitical issues is thought to be so
widespread that many analysts claim we live in a post-political or post-democratic era [5-7]. In
this era, ‘the political’, a space of active contestation, has been evacuated and in its place stands
depoliticized ‘management’, whereby public institutions narrowly serve to improve technical and
managerial administration and broker compromise only within the parameters allowed by the
logic of economic efficiency [8]. The dominance of this way of thinking is widely considered to
be at the heart of social-environmental concerns [9,10] (figure 1). As an antidote to this, many
have argued for the invigoration of noisy, confrontational protest to cut through and open up
the technocratic-administrative closure of politics (think Donald Trump’s ‘drain the swamp’,
Greta Thunberg’s ‘climate strike’, Extinction Rebellion’s ‘non-violent direct action’ or Hong Kong
residents’ reaction to the ‘extradition bill’). Others see hope in quieter forms of resistance. For
example, it has been argued [11,12] that the post-political should not be positioned as a ‘matter
of fact’ as it obscures the opportunities and successes of more sustainable experiments and the
different possibilities they make real. Others suggest there is not enough consideration of the
‘feelings, passions, hopes, fears and beliefs’ that accompany such efforts [13].

Taking the above as a foundation, this paper examines how an experiment with more
resilient water infrastructure politicized centralized water management, focusing, in particular,
on a stormwater re-use ‘third-pipe’ system at a large residential development in Auckland,
New Zealand. We attend to the ways in which techno-managerial water management was
contested and, thus, politicized through the implementation of the third pipe, and how the
mobilization of techno-managerial discourses by water management authorities delegitimized
the third-pipe system, rendering it ultimately inoperable. From this case study, we highlight
two key things. First, the paper demonstrates the power of techno-managerial expertise in
contemporary water management and its tendency to police the terms and outcomes of debate