policy makers began to argue in favour of incorporating proof in mathematics education at all
levels. The main reason for this argument, beyond the central role of proof in mathematics, is
that it does not seem reasonable to introduce proof only at high school level and to expect that the
students develop an immediate appreciation for it [13,14]. However, this argumentation in favour
of introducing proof at all school levels does not necessarily mean that proof has actually been
integrated into the mathematical experiences of all students, including those of the elementary
grades [10]. Actually, as Knuth [13,14] points out, these recommendations are too demanding for
teachers, requiring a deep understanding of the nature and role of proof. And even when there
is agreement among mathematics educators of the relevance of ascribing to proof a central role,
several research studies suggest that turning it into a reality in the classroom is a challenging task
for both teachers and researchers [3,11].

The fact is that, ‘despite the increased attention and emphasis being placed on proof in school
mathematics, students of all ages continue to struggle learning to prove’ [18, p. 2]. Some studies
suggest that the difficulties are related to the abrupt way in which formal proof is introduced at
the secondary level [16], recommending an earlier and less formal introduction. At the earlier
levels, the students’ experience with proof could start with example-based justifications, and
continue using progressively more general and deductive arguments [16,18]. According to these
authors, some researchers have proposed hierarchies that try to define ways in which this process
can be implemented. Nevertheless, difficulties remain about the best way to foster students’
transition from less formal example-based arguments to more general deductive proofs. Some
studies suggest that the difficulties in the students’ transition are due to an excessive focus on
the use of examples as a means of justification [18]. And they recommend an approach where
the students have the opportunity to became aware of the limitations of the use of examples, and
thus recognize the need for proof. But even in these circumstances, the students continue to face