as scientists to teach how doubt is not to be feared, but welcomed and discussed’. Below I give a
very scant sample of such historical mistakes of different sorts, just to illustrate my point.

e It seems that none of the geometric proofs in the first books of Euclid, which are even
today merchandized as proofs in school Geometry textbooks, are proofs according to the
modern standards. Apart from the stated axioms, these ‘proofs’ refer to scores of unstated
ones, ‘obvious’ facts, pictures, etc. But, as we know from the current papers in Algebraic
Topology, referring to pictures you can prove essentially anything. For instance, that any
triangle is equilateral.

By purely accidental circumstances, the facts usually presented as theorems in school textbooks
are true (in this case, can be deduced from Hilbert’s axioms), but this does not make their
traditional proofs any more correct. For instance, Euclid’s proof of the fact that the diagonals of
a parallelogram bisect each other (the one reproduced in Wikipedia) already uses much more
difficult facts that they intersect inside the parallelogram or, for that matter, that they do intersect
at all! As was gradually discovered between the third century B.C and the nineteenth century
A.D., the reason is that Euclid’s text missed a whole bunch of axioms (or, in fact, at least two such
bunches, betweenness and continuity), necessary to derive his claims.

2Concerning this paragraph, the second anonymous referee commented that ‘Physics is driven by observation and
measurement, and can therefore live well with incorrect proofs’. For me, Mathematics is also largely driven by observation
and experiment. In Physics, you can afford speculations, mathematical guesswork usually stays very concrete and specific.
Before becoming mathematical theorems such things as the asymptotic law of distribution of primes, or Dirichlet’s theorem
on primes in arithmetic progressions, and thousands of other similar results were experimental facts. It is exactly the possibility
of instantly switching the register, and checking weird speculation against irrevocable facts of life, that makes Mathematics