of d’Alembert’s 1746 theorem that C is algebraically closed (FTHA). Subsequent proofs
were proposed by Euler in 1759 and by Lagrange in 1771. However, mathematicians are
rarely interested in the history of their Science. Without much thinking, most sources
repeat the ridiculous claim that the first such ‘satisfactory’ proof was given by Gauf in
1799. To make it look slightly less preposterous, in ‘Algebra’ Bourbaki calls the FTHA
the Euler-Lagrange theorem, and in ‘Topology’ the same result is called the d’Alembert-
Gau8 theorem.

I fully agree with Klein that on this point we should rather trust Gau& himself, who called his
Thesis ‘Demonstratio nova’, thus showing that he does not pretend to be the first to give such a
proof. Of course, Gau8 starts with criticizing all preceding proofs. The objection he raises against
the Euler-Lagrange proof is that they already assume that the roots of an algebraic equation
exist somewhere, to apply the Viéte formulae, and derive that then these roots are in fact complex.
Retrospectively, after the work of Kronecker, this proof is correct to all effects. The problems in
d’Alembert’s proof are slightly more serious, but I would assess it as essentially correct, as we
know the later work of Weierstrass.

Unfortunately, the same does not apply to Gauf’s first proof, which if not quite false, is
severely problematic. In fact, unlike the two preceding proofs that today can be easily patched
by a first-year undergraduate student, Gauf’s first proof contains a huge gap, that was only
fixed by Ostrowski [6] in 1920, and that even today would be non-trivial to fill for a professional
mathematician outside of the field. Smale [7] describes the situation as follows: ‘I wish to point
out what an immense gap Gauss’s proof contained. It is a subtle point even today that a real
algebraic plane curve cannot enter a disk without leaving. In fact even though Gauss redid this
proof 50 years later, the gap remained. It was not until 1920 that Gauss’ proof was completed.’