thickness at Iceland [7]. Active volcanism takes place on approximately 30 volcanic systems, tw
which are grouped into a number of volcanic zones (figure 2). These zones are either classified im
as flank zones or rift zones. The flank zones, including systems 25-30 in figure 2, host alkaline :3
magmatism and do not accomodate a substantial portion of the plate spreading. By contrast, :s
the rift zones generate tholeiitic magma and accommodate the bulk of the extension associated :
with the full spreading rate of 20mm yr~!. The two northernmost volcanic zones of the Northern
Volcanic Zone (NVZ) are Theistareykir (system 24) and Krafla (system 23). These systems have
been the focus of detailed petrological work by groups from Cambridge and the University of
Iceland—much of which is described below. The petrology, geochemistry and volcanic structure
of other systems in the NVZ and those of the Western Volcanic Zone (WVZ) and Reykjanes
Peninsula (REP) have also been the target of study [43-46]. The available observations indicate
that models of crustal magmatic plumbing for these systems (1-4, 8, 21, 22 from figure 2) have
much in common with Krafla and Theistareykir. This similarity may reflect the fact that the
crustal thicknesses and magmatic fluxes in these systems are equivalent. It may also be important
that these volcanic zones have been active for more than 5 Myr. By contrast, activity on the
Eastern Volcanic Zone (EVZ: systems 12-20) started relatively recently (3 Ma). This region of high
magma flux hosts volcanic systems that are petrologically and volcanically distinct from the rest
of Iceland’s rift zones. For example, the EVZ volcanic output is characterized by giant fissure
eruptions and explosive eruptions from large central volcanoes, while the NVZ and WVZ contain
large lava shields and monogenetic subglacial tuyas [47]. These observations indicate that models
of magma transport and storage that are applicable to the EVZ are not entirely appropriate for the
NVZ, WVZ and REP. This contribution therefore focusses on observations and models for Krafla,
Theistareykir and the broader NVZ, WVZ and REP.

(a) Barometry indicates stacked-sills accretion