There is localized evidence for melt-solid—solid textural equilibration, particularly at olivine—
olivine-melt junctions (figure 6f), with some limited evidence at plagioclase—plagioclase junctions
(figure 6b,c,f), consistent with relatively slow crystallization rates. Some plagioclase-plagioclase-
melt junctions have been modified during or after entrainment, with evidence for late-stage
rapid growth resulting in the creation of irregular, but curved, plagioclase—melt interfaces [81]
(figure 6d,f).

The margins of plagioclase grains are strongly facetted where they are growing into relatively
large melt pools (figure 6c-f). Grain boundaries between adjacent plagioclase grains are a mixture
of planar boundaries that are parallel to growth faces of one or both of the two grains (e.g.
figure 6b,e), or are irregular, with no relationship with the crystallographic orientation of the
two grains. This irregular type contains impingement lenses (figure 6c—e). That the irregularities
in the grain boundaries formed during solidification itself is shown by the fact that planar
facets are present on plagioclase grains adjacent to relatively large pools of melt, but this planar
morphology breaks down as the melt film between adjacent grains is narrowed during continuing


cer

Figure 6. Troctolitic and gabbroic glass-bearing enclaves entrained in the 1950 andesite flow of the Kameni Islands, Santorini.
(a) Clusters of euhedral to subhedral olivine and augite grains, joined by large areas of planar grain boundary consistent with a
formation during synneusis. Crossed polars. Scale bar is 1mm long. (b) Plagioclase grains in this enclave have low aspect ratios,
commonly with complex twinning, and no evidence for dislocation creep (the yellow birefringence colour is due to the thickness
of this thin section). The arrowed grain boundary is planar, melt-free and joins two plagioclase grains on their (010) faces: this is
suggestive of sintering following synneusis. The grain marked with an asterisk is joined by similarly straight, (010) parallel grain