(cross-section location shown on figure 6) from Greenfield & White [78]. The section is plotted through the Vp/Vs model which
is sensitive to the presence of melt. Seismicity within 2 km of the profile is shown by the black dots. The imaged magma storage
body in the upper crust is outlined by the solid black line, with the maximum possible size of any shallow low-velocity body
centred at 2 km depth indicated by the dashed black oval. Dashed red lines show the interpreted flow of melt through the crust.

boundary [80]. Once intruded, the sills could act as a locus for successive rising dykes, thereby
creating a heavily intruded region of the crust [81] or mush zone.

In the lower crust, there are clusters of seismicity at depths of approximately 15 and 20 km
beneath the caldera, although they are located beneath the edge of the caldera rather than directly
under its centre. Small regions of lowered seismic velocity are associated with them, but the
anomalies are much smaller than in the shallower crust, which is probably why we are able
to detect seismicity within them. As discussed in an earlier section, the very fact that there is
seismicity here suggests that melt is moving within or through these regions.

In addition to the evidence for melt beneath Askja volcano itself, there are also several locations
of persistent seismicity in the mid and lower crust along the neovolcanic zone associated with
Askja (orange dots, figure 6). These have been known to be active for over a decade, ever since
there have been seismometers in the area capable of recording them. The earthquakes occur in
swarms of near-identical repeating events sometimes as close as 8s apart, lasting for up to 3h [9].
They are small events with magnitudes ranging from —0.5 to 0.4 (note that the magnitude scale is
logarithmic, so a magnitude —0.5 earthquake has 10 times smaller amplitude than a magnitude
0.5 earthquake, and emits about 30 times less energy). Moment tensor solutions show that most
of the earthquakes are high-angle opening cracks accompanied by volumetric increases. This
is consistent with the failure causing the earthquakes being melt injection opening new tensile