Nanda et al. [25] developed another facile method. They chemically etched steel mesh to
create flower like microstructures, then coated the etched surface with hexadecyltrimethoxysilane
(HDTMS) to produce a superhydrophobic and superoleophilic surface. They demonstrated that
kerosene-water and n-hexane—water mixtures can be separated with kerosene or n-hexane going
through the filter with a high separation efficiency.

In an early example of fabrication of underwater superoleophobic surfaces, these were created
by immersing stainless steel mesh into an acrylamide solution. The acrylamide was polymerized
by UV irradiation to form a hydrogel, a water-swollen polymer network [26]. When placed
underwater, the treated hydrophilic mesh exhibited oil contact angles of 153° and droplets were
found to roll easily from the tilted surface. When an oil—-water mixture was poured onto the mesh,
the water permeated through the mesh while the oil remained on top. Although this configuration
helps to reduce the impact of oil fouling, the fact that the surface is only superoleophobic
underwater limits its application.

Brown & Bhushan [17] created a superoleophobic/superhydrophilic mesh surface by
combining the chemistry of the fluorosurfactant with hierarchical roughness using the layer-by-
layer technique described earlier. Bhushan & Martin [18] used the nanoparticle/binder coating
with an over layer of fluorosurfactant. The fluorosurfactant provides oil repellency and water
affinity, while the roughness enhances these properties to result in oil contact angles of greater
than 150° and water contact angles of less than 5°. When this coating is applied to a stainless steel
mesh and an oil-water mixture is poured over it, the water penetrates through the mesh while
the oil remains on top and can be easily rolled off by tilting. By inclining the mesh at an angle,
the two liquids can be separated and collected simultaneously. A nanoparticle /binder composite
coating technique is found to work with a variety of substrates with desired performance [18]. It