on very simplified geometrical assumptions, as discussed in [4]. A minimum of the function
describing the angular width subtended by the identified signal is found on a back-projection
plane located at an altitude between 15m and 20m higher than that of the position where the
detector was installed. The difference in altitude between the detector’s location and the base of
the Gran Cava is known owing to an accurate geometrical survey that we have obtained using a
three-dimensional laser scanner. As will be shown elsewhere we now have a three-dimensional
scan of the relevant part of the surface of the hill and of the interior of the Temperino mine and
of the Gran Cava. Based on this survey, the altitude difference between the detector and the base
of the Gran Cava was found to be (21 + 2) m (the large uncertainty takes into account the uneven
ground inside the Gran Cava). This value is slightly larger than the value found with the back-
projection method. This result requires careful verification and could be linked to the fact that we
do not know the exact structure of the material contained between the position of the detector and
the Gran Cava. In fact, we have already identified some tunnels near the detector’s location that
cannot be easily accessed due to the collapse of material from above. The observed effect could
then be due to some cavities still present below the Gran Cava floor. Apart from these comments,
which could be important for the optimization phase of the technique, the result is positive for the
test of the methodology, which seems to also work in the case of very large volumes and bodies
with respect to the case presented in §3a. Looking finally at the back-projection difference map on
a plane 16 m far (higher) than the detector, we find the image shown in figure 10a.

The image is seen from the point of view of the underground detector and it appears to be
mirrored with respect to the transmission maps shown before, where it is viewed from above in
order to compare it with geographical maps. The signal due to the empty volume of the Gran
Cava is clear. Figure 10 shows a projection to the X-axis of the content of five bins in the region
around y = —10m. Most of the signal develops for —10.5m < x < —5.5m, suggesting a width of