originating in the UV fold develops continuously into a localized state embedded in a background
periodic state. The amplitude of the background oscillations grows with further distance from the
fold (figure 5a) until the defect is fully submerged in the background and the branch terminates
on the 4 = 27/3 PP branch (cyan) at location F. The latter bifurcates from the UV fold as it must,
given the wavenumber of the background oscillations at location A. Observe also that this branch
undergoes several large excursions prior to termination. However, throughout these oscillations
the number of identical peaks on the half domain remains at 13 (the three peaks near x = 0 are
taller) despite the fact that the wavelength of this periodic part changes along the branch thereby
squeezing the taller peaks. The number of these back and forth excursions grows with the domain
size. By L=20Ar (figure 5b), the branch develops a notable Maxwell point that appears to be
associated with the formation of a homoclinic connection between the PP state that bifurcates
from the UV fold (cyan curve) and itself. This sensitivity to the domain size is a consequence of
the fact that the solution is always in contact with the prescribed domain boundaries.

(b) Turing bifurcation and Turing branch folds

There are two other sources of LSs, the Turing bifurcation on UV* and the folds in the resulting
Turing branch (figure 3). The Turing bifurcation is present when dm > 2 and theory shows that
there are two LS branches that appear near a = ay when the Turing branch bifurcates subcritically,
just as in the Swift-Hohenberg equation [29]. On a large but finite domain the resulting Ls*
bifurcate from the Turing branch at small but finite amplitude and initially resemble an extended
wave packet. The subsequent behaviour depends on the value of d. For smaller d (e.g. d=7),
the LS~ wave packet localizes into a hole in the UV* state (figure 6a, red branch). The LS~
subsequently develops an interval of BS that grows continuously in lateral extent until only a
single pulse of biomass remains (C-E), just as in figure 4a. By contrast, the LSt (figure 6b, magenta