example, in a credit context, it is quite likely that a machine learning model could likely learn
that a borrower’s quality of clothing correlates with their income and hence creditworthiness.
However, wearing nice clothes does not create creditworthiness. While such a correlation might
be strong, for a model to function well and avoid manipulation, it should be robust to its
specified purpose. Thus, a credit model based on the borrower’s clothing (or irrelevant features
such as race or religion) should be rejected during a process of critical evaluation, investigation
and validation.

Interventions may not always provide a path to understanding either. Sometimes, it is
necessary to consider a system’s context dynamically and to account for how the system changes
and is changed by its context. For example, a credit-scoring or credit-granting system which
under-rates a certain minority group relative to their actual credit risk could be said to be
biased, but simply giving higher ratings to this group may or may not in fact improve credit
or economic opportunities for its members. That is, increasing the credit scores of the group’s
members may cause some real-world effect which counteracts the benefit of the higher scores.
This could be the case if qualified members of the minority group did not resemble qualified
members of the majority, meaning that the boosted scores likely create credit opportunities for
unqualified members of the minority group. In turn, this could lead to higher default rates in
the minority group, and increased burdens to that community. Rather, we must demand that
the agency rating the creditworthiness of this community consider the context and impacts of
their credit system and in particular to consider what outcomes are desired, how they might

2In a sense, this is what happened in the USA during the 2008 financial crisis: a systematic programme of marketing risky
home loans to minorities led to a correlated failure of risk models and a crisis of foreclosures borne primarily by already
poorer minority communities.