orthopyroxene (Opx) investigated the underlying physical mechanisms that lead to mixing and
subsequent strain weakening. Observations of the microstructures produced in these experiments
led to a variety of explanations for the observed phase mixing. Cross & Skemer [16] proposed
a mechanical mixing mechanism based on their experimental observations of sheared samples
of calcite plus anhydrite in which large clusters of each phase are thinned and elongated with
increasing strain until they form layers of a single grain thickness. These layers are then pulled
apart at high strains leading to a well-mixed system whereby phase mixing is controlled by the
strain required to thin out each layer. Bercovici & Skemer [17] suggested another mechanical
mechanism for phase mixing in samples of Ol plus Opx in which small grains or ‘teeth’ of Ol
form at Opx-Ol-Opx triple junctions. In response to the imposed stress gradient, these Ol ‘teeth’
migrate away from the Ol layer along Opx-Opx grain boundaries towards Opx triple junctions,
thus causing mixing of the two phases. Tasaka et al. [18] explained phase mixing in their Ol plus
Opx samples with a chemical mechanism based on (i) the fact that Ol and Opx share common
chemical building blocks, MeO and SiQ2 and (ii) the appearance of small grains of Ol and Opx
along grain boundaries of the opposite phase. They interpreted this feature as being due to stress
gradients established during deformation driving diffusion of the faster component, MeO, from
Ol grain boundaries in deviatoric compression to Opx grain boundaries in deviatoric tension.
Owing to the slow diffusion speed of the SiO2 component in this system [19-21], small grains of
Opx are left behind at Ol grain boundaries, and the MeO reacts with the neighbouring Opx to
form new, small grains of Ol at Opx grain boundaries. With continued deformation, this process
would lead to a well-mixed microstructure.

To further investigate the possible role of chemical processes in phase mixing, we deformed
two-phase aggregates composed of olivine plus ferropericlase (Fp) to high strain in torsion
in a high-resolution, gas-medium apparatus. In contrast to the Ol plus Opx system in which