of mantle rheology. Temperature-dependent viscosity creates a strong, rigid lithosphere and thus
confines convection to the warmer mantle interior where viscosity is lower (e.g. [15,16]). Plate
tectonics then requires that some additional mechanism that allows mantle convective forces to
form narrow weak zones within the high viscosity lithosphere, such that plates can slide past
each other and subduct beneath one another, be present. A strongly nonlinear rheology, where
regions of high stress or deformation become weaker than areas of low stress or deformation, has
proven successful in forming plate boundaries and generating a ‘mobile lid’ form of convection
(e.g. [52-54]). In this study, I define the mobile lid regime as one where subduction of surface
material into the mantle occurs and drives lithospheric mobility. Mobility of the lithosphere
may be slow compared with typical fluid velocities in the mantle interior (a ‘sluggish lid’
regime), exhibit varying degrees of episodicity or fail to produce truly rigid plates. But as long as
subduction of surface material that drives surface motion takes place, convection is in the mobile
lid regime. In fact, forming genuinely plate-like behaviour is still a challenge today, as models
typically fail to form strike-slip faults, truly rigid plates or single-sided subduction [55], though
some of these features can be created in select cases (e.g. [56,57]). As a result, I will focus on the
‘mobile lid’ regime (rather than the ‘plate-tectonic’ regime) in contrast to the stagnant lid regime
in this paper.

Although nonlinear rheologies can generate mobile lid convection, the mechanism (or
mechanisms) behind such rheological behaviour are still not well understood (e.g. [55]). One
commonly used mechanism is the pseudoplastic yield stress rheology (e.g. [53,54,58-61]). Here
the lithosphere is assumed to have a finite strength, the yield stress, and fails when this stress is
reached; failure of the lithosphere results in the formation of weak shear zones and mobility of
the lithosphere. With the pseudoplastic rheology, the stress state in the lithosphere is critical for
whether convection sits in a mobile lid or stagnant lid regime, as stresses in the lithosphere must