for the continental crust. As U, Th and Pb are more enriched in continental crust than light REEs,
the modelling of these elements has greater sensitivity to crustal growth than the modelling of the
Sm-Nd system, but at the same time, the former is known to require more complex box models.
Also, U has an active biological cycle unlike REE. As the complexity of box modelling increases, it
becomes increasingly difficult to fully constrain it with available observations. Forward modelling
does not prove the uniqueness of a preferred solution nor quantify its uncertainty, but it still
provides some quantitative basis for discussion.

More recent mantle-based models of crustal growth are not based on geochemical box
modelling; they are based simply on trace element ratios. The approach with trace element
ratios has the advantage of being very simple (no calculus involved), but unlike box modelling,
it does not provide an estimate on crustal recycling. Collerson & Kamber [31] used Nb/Th,
whereas Campbell [32] used Nb/U. In fact, Collerson & Kamber [31] tried Nb/U as well, but
they discounted the corresponding growth curve because it indicated greater continental mass in
the past. After the net growth model of Campbell [32], an interest in creating a new growth model
with the mantle-based approach seems to have faded away. Instead, the evolution of continental
crust has been studied mostly through the crust-based approach using the global databases
of detrital zircon. This shift from the mantle-based approach to the crust-based one is partly
because of the aforementioned misconception that the crust-based approach can constrain net
crustal growth (ยง2a), and partly because of the intrinsic difficulty of the mantle-based approach.
Estimating the degree of mantle depletion in ancient times from ancient igneous rocks, which do
not exist in abundance, is obviously challenging.

Nevertheless, the mantle-based approach can in principle constrain net crustal growth in
the most direct fashion, and it is important to make headway with this approach. To this end,