plate tectonics (§3c). The extremely rapid crustal growth in the early Hadean does not necessarily
mean that the continental crust like today already existed at that time; it could correspond to the
formation of the protocrust during the solidification of the magma ocean. Subsequent subsolidus

mantle convection, however, must have been able to steadily produce the continental crust at the : =
rate of approximately 2 x 10”? kg Gyr~? and then destroy it at a similar rate. The gradual decline : S
in the crustal generation rate (figure 5a) may reflect the secular cooling of the mantle (figure 9a). a

The rate of crustal recycling also declines with time (figure 5a), and this may be puzzling for aed
those who are familiar with the thermal evolution of the Earth (figure 9); one might expect that : _
slower plate motion in the past corresponds to less efficient crustal recycling. This expectation, [4
however, assumes that the thickness of subducting sediment layer does not vary with time, : =
but the volume of terrigenous sediments may have been greater in the past. In fact, the likely : =
secular evolution of mantle water content alludes to this possibility. A decline in the efficiency of : S

crustal recycling is equivalent to an increase in the preservation potential of continental crust,
and because the continental crust is protected from below by thick lithospheric mantle [207],
it may also be linked to the gradual strengthening of lithospheric support. Such evolution of
lithospheric support is anticipated from the positive net water flux in the mantle. At the present
day, the continental mantle lithosphere is more viscous than the convecting mantle, primarily
because the former is drier than the latter [208-212]. In the early Earth when the convecting mantle
is estimated to have been dry as well, however, such intrinsic viscosity contrast would have
been absent or much reduced. The continental mantle lithosphere could then have been easily
deformed by convecting currents, facilitating crustal deformation, erosion, and eventually crustal
recycling. This connection between deep water cycle and the preservation potential of continental