than 25% probability compared to 50%). Sampling of 50 individuals would make it extremely
unlikely (less than 1% probability) that a 5kyr onset would appear instantaneous, but would
also bias the apparent onset duration towards longer intervals by increasing the likelihood
of finding intermediate value individuals mixed up into younger material (Supplementary
fig. 14 in [25]). In addition, constraints on changes in the relative abundance of foraminifera
taxa, measured on the same size fraction as the single specimen isotope data, are crucial for
interpretation, because reductions in abundance will amplify the effects of limited sampling.
Finally, sites with high sedimentation rates will show less distortion due to bioturbation (e.g.
[78]). Hence, approaches that are capable of measuring the isotopic composition of a large
number of single specimens [76], coupled with detailed assemblage data, while targeting sites
with relatively high sedimentation rates, present the best opportunity to find and interpret the
significance of intermediate value individuals in the PETM onset. These records would also allow
further investigation of another interesting aspect of single foraminifera records—the fact that
intermediate temperature values are detected on samples with pre-excursion 5!°C [29]—which
may help unravel possible mechanisms of carbon release if preliminary warming was not caused
by a carbon source relatively depleted in °C.

(b) Method 2: relative size of the carbon isotope excursion between reservoirs

On the basis of different CIE magnitudes between reservoirs, Kirtland Turner & Ridgwell [30]
suggested the PETM onset could be less than 3kyr. Kirtland Turner & Ridgwell [30] used the
cGENIE model forced with a uniform input of carbon to the atmosphere over durations ranging
from 1 year to 10kyr and compared the relative size of the CIE generated within the ocean
and atmosphere as a function of the duration of carbon input (figure 2b). Shorter carbon input
durations corresponded to larger atmospheric CIEs but not larger mean ocean CIEs. Thus, the