
In other words, the process zone is assumed to have zero width. The tensile stress carried
at a particular point within the FPZ (6fpz) is assumed to be a function of the separation w of
the FPZ at that point (figure 2b). As the traction-free crack advances (figure 2c), points lying
within the fractured zone experience first the ability to transmit the full tensile strength, but as
the one point becomes two points which then separate, the stress transmitted softens and is a
function of the separation w. At some critical separation wc, no tensile stress can be transmitted
(figure 2c). The particular shape of this stress-separation-curve (SSC) (figure 2d) is regarded as
a material property: the energy absorbed per unit crack area advance (G;) of the traction-free
crack is represented by the area under this curve. Given that no well-defined crack tip exists, the
notional crack tip is assumed to coincide with the point ahead of the traction-free crack at which
the tensile stress normal to the crack plane is equal to the local tensile strength of. The FPZ lies
between the traction-free crack tip and the notional crack tip and this FPZ is often called a fictitious
crack. Within the fictitious crack, the cohesive stress ofp, and the opening of the crack faces w are
related by the Ofpz, — W curve (figure 2d).

The response of material points lying outside of the FPZ is governed by the applicable o — «
behaviour of the bulk material. Only if the FPZ is very small with regard to the specimen size is
the one-parameter Griffith LEFM theory applicable. Assuming that the size (Agp,) of the fictitious
crack is not negligible, knowledge of the closure stress function Ofpz(w) is essential. An adequate
VFCM for sea ice thus requires the SSC: o, w_, We and G, (see figure 3).

For any sea ice fracture test, the SSC as well as the viscoelastic characterization of the sea
ice is not known. This information must back-calculated such that predicted results match the
experimental results. The SSC is assumed to be dependent on the separation distance as well