possible to re-identify data believed to be de-identified. In many cases, re-identification has 1B
been accomplished via successful linkage attacks, whereby a de-identified dataset is joined .
with a publicly available dataset containing identifying information. Any record in the de-
identified dataset which is uniquely linked with a record in the publicly available dataset (using
the attributes common to both) is re-identified. For example, Sweeney demonstrated that de-
identified hospital records could be joined with voter registration records, as both datasets
contained birth date, sex and ZIP code information for each individual. Sweeney used these
three attributes to uniquely identify Massachusetts Governor William Weld’s health records and
observed that the process she used resulted in many other uniquely identified records.!? More
generally, she showed that a large portion of the US population could be uniquely re-identified
given just these three pieces of their information [19]. Subsequent attacks on de-identified data
(e.g. [20,21]) suggest that as few as three or four data points can be sufficient to re-identify an
individual in a de-identified dataset. In fact, to be effective, de-identification must strip the data
of most of its informational content, rendering it almost void of value of analytic purposes (see
discussion in [22,23]). There have been many attempts to define the concept of de-identification
heuristically (e.g. k-anonymity [24] and its variants /-diversity [25] and t-closeness [26]). However,
as researchers continually discover new privacy vulnerabilities, new heuristic definitions must
be developed to address them. In practice, heuristic approaches can be used to protect personal
information against a small number of specific attacks, but they do not provide comprehensive
protection against all feasible attacks.

To date, there is no formal mathematical definition for de-identification, or for related
concepts such as personally identifiable information and linkage. Because these concepts are
heuristic rather than formal, they must be periodically updated in response to newly discovered
weaknesses. Privacy standards based on these heuristic concepts become moving targets, creating