Riberio et al.'s experiment was in respect of a definitional classification. Risk assessments
present more of a challenge to human judgement where, Meehl would have argued, human
judgement does not represent a gold standard. Non-expert users may struggle to understand
the factors that contribute to the algorithm’s output, such as the ‘not-so-obvious words’ that
contributed to the classification of pornographic websites in Martens and Provost’s work
[31], and therefore could be set up to fail if asked to decide upon relevance. This, however,
brings us back to the potential disconnect regarding the meaning of ‘relevance’. In a public a
sector environment, relevance in a legal sense cannot be ignored and so neither can statistical =
relevance—and the risk of false generalization—to this assessment. Many lawyers will find 18
themselves in the position of having to consider whether the results of a model satisfy a :
certain relevancy or evidentiary standard or whether use of a model with, say, a 65% overall es
accuracy rate satisfies a certain standard of care. How should they decide whether statistical : ae
algorithmic risk predictors are ‘unreliable science’ [43] or in fact empirically valid in any one 74
context? : NS

Their difficulties are only exacerbated by the ‘group-to-individual’ problem. Melissa Hamilton [3
argues that translating from the population, being the group level, to the individual level ‘is a 1B
precarious adventure fraught with errors; but many judges, practitioners, even forensic assessors,
fail to note’ [43]. She points to misleading communications during sentencing decisions in the
USA in which group-based data were translated into absolute predictions of reoffending at
an individual level. Therefore, Hamilton argues, attention must be paid to the way that the
results of algorithmic tools are communicated to decision-makers, with Hamilton advocating a
comparative or analogous form of risk communication.

Blastland and Spiegelhalter describe the challenge another way: ‘the average can be scarily