to be quasi-linear. Nevertheless, it is common to use formally similar methods for exploration of
nonlinear systems far beyond the quasi-linear regime. Harmonic balance with slowly varying
amplitudes [27] is an important example of this approach: it lacks rigorous mathematical
justification, but often provides reliable results and is widely used in engineering. Expedient
approximations, mathematically equivalent to the method of normal forms in the quasi-linear
case, can be obtained by invoking complex variables. Early examples of this approach are models
that include self-trapping [28] and the rotating-wave approximation [29], common in studies of
lattice dynamics. Recently, similar ideas were reformulated in the complexification—averaging
(CxA) approach [30-34]. At the same time, it is evident that the applicability of harmonic
balance-based methods is limited. For starters, their validity can be rigorously justified only for
quasi-linear systems or for the case of nonlinear potentials with power close to 2 [35]. Harmonic
balance-related methods are nevertheless also used for quartic or even stronger nonlinearities
[36], and do in fact yield reasonably good results, albeit with limited and a priori unknown
accuracy. Partial remedy for the case of periodic solutions can be achieved by accounting for
multiple harmonics in the expansion. Still, the attempts to use slowly varying amplitudes for
multiple harmonics may lead to a system that mathematically is even more complex than the
initial one. In addition, for very interesting and important systems that include clearances,
impacts or rotators, these methods have additional limitations. It is possible, however, to devise
efficient approaches for the exploration of transient responses and targeted energy transfer in
some systems that include a single vibro-impact element or a rotator [37,38]. While handling
these models, one also invokes the exploration of RMs, but beyond the harmonic balance or
CxA. The treatment heavily relies on particular simplifications available for impacts or for
rotators.

