
For the subcritical coupling, a system starting at utmost localization conditions reaches a point
of equal distribution of action in the anti-phase, and then goes back to localization at the same
particle as in the beginning, completing a 27 phase-difference travel. During this process, marked
by the thick (red online) curve, the other particle never attains a majority of the overall energy. In
contrast with that, for a slightly supercritical coupling, the phase never supersedes z, whereas y
travels through its entire range and energy flows from one particle, which has a majority of the
energy in the beginning, to the other particle, which attains a majority of it in the end of the period
(with corresponding active impact dynamics).

One notes the initial part of the orbit, corresponding to y <1, which is flat, much unlike the
majority of the curve, which is nearly straight with a slope of 3 for about half of its range. This
illustrates the fact that the asymptotic form of the Hamiltonian, with the vanishing y-? coupling,
is incorrect for y < 1. One other important point to be made here concerns the limit of vanishing
impact velocity. Clearly, this is an opposite limit to what was examined previously in this section,
namely E — 1+ instead of E > 1. One should expect that in this limit, where the nonlinear effects
are vanishing, there would be no localization regime at all due to equipartition of energy. In other
words, one should expect delocalization here for a coupling value as small as zero. Therefore,
looking at the entire range, the critical coupling ker as a function of the total normalized energy E,
should be a function starting at zero for E = 1 and increasing until reaching a horizontal asymptote
for E > 1, with the value given in equation (6.12).

The following section generalizes the calculation of the critical coupling for finite values of the
foundation stiffness. It is subsequently validated that indeed the proposed generalization of the
definition of the LPT allows good prediction of the critical transition of the unaveraged system.