amounts to AQ,, =0.08m?s~! for NP creek, which means a typical percentage error of 7.5%
was obtained. For the SP creek, the error in Qn is slightly higher with AQn =0.10m's~, ie.
a percentage error of 12%. The lower error in discharge for NP creek indicates a satisfactory
parametrization of the hydrological system. The higher error in SP creek discharge estimations
can be related to the contribution of discharge water from other processes.

The adjustment parameters, however, prove the simulation results for both SP and NP creeks
are acceptable. The obtained results from both series (simulated and measured) for NP and SP
creeks are summarized in table 1. In this table, 1? is the correlation coefficient and represents
the goodness of fit of observed daily maximum discharge Qg,obs to simulated daily maximum
discharge Qasim, and observed monthly discharge, Qmobs to simulated monthly discharge,
Qm,sim. The measured discharge values are maximum values, while the simulated ones are
in fact the maximum values estimated by the simulation and taking into account the daily
amplitude of variation of discharge. This amplitude is driven by changes in temperature and
incidental radiation. Finally, the mean discharges were calculated taking into consideration the
daily variation of simulated discharge (figure 4).

Main precipitation events happened on only four days during the time period 25 January to
18 March 2011. Total amount of precipitation during the whole observation period added up to
63.8mm. A great part of the catchment area is glaciated, and precipitation falls mostly in the
form of snow, especially at higher elevations of the glacier. The precipitation on glaciated parts
of the catchment area is, thus, not directly available for discharge processes but adds to the mass
balance of the glacier. Counting only the precipitation falling on the non-glaciated catchment
parts, and disregarding completely evaporation and latent heat fluxes, this would translate to a
total amount over the whole time period of 0.89 m3 s~! for SP creek and 0.25 m3 s! for NP creek.