fitted to all the data and compared with only the data obtained from a similar quasihydrostatic
media. In addition, both Vg and (dK/dP)p were varied in the least-squares fit carried out with
the help of the software EosFIT [18]. The Vo obtained from the fit was found to be within 20
of the refined cell constants of the starting material on a D3 phaser. This was needed to assure
ourselves of the ability to cross compare our EOS values with earlier published data whose
zero pressure volumes were different and could reflect different starting stoichiometries [2]. In
addition to fitting all the P-V data, we chose to fit a subset of the results with MgO as the pressure
standard. These data obtained from samples after quenching from high temperatures correspond
to those that have been heated sufficiently to release non-hydrostatic stresses. We fixed Vo as
indicated above to 328.4A% and varied Ko and (dK/dP)p to obtain values of 221(2) GPa and
3.3(5), respectively. When all the MgO data were used, we obtained values of 204(14) GPa and
4.4(11), respectively. This variation reflects the effect of non-hydrostatic stresses that increases the
scatter of the data (figure 1). In fact, our neon data in which ruby was used to determine pressure
also show a systematic deviation above 10 GPa and probably represents a similar effect as sample
bridging by the anvils, since the ruby Rj —R2 doublet remained well resolved up to at least 30 GPa.
While the values of Vo are similar, the bulk modulus derived from single-crystal X-ray diffraction
[10], powder X-ray diffraction [15] and neutron diffraction [9] vary in the range 200-300 GPa; this
variation has been attributed to varying starting stoichiometries and stress state of the sample
even during quasi-hydrostatic compression studies [2,17,19]. We also concur with earlier studies
regarding the axial ratio in the lower pressure range. In contrast to earlier studies, however, we
find that the axial ratio, which starts falling around 10 GPa, recovers and stiffens above 30 GPa.
This behaviour is not reflected in any significant way by the cell lengths that show a monotonic
pressure dependence (figure 3).

In the Mie-Griineisen formulation, the EOS of solids is generally represented as