
{ Higgs field, H H

Figure 1. (a) The essential ingredients of electroweak baryogenesis, surrounding a bubble nucleated during a first-order
electroweak phase transition. (b) Evolution of the Higgs potential with temperature for a second- or first-order phase transition.

this appealing idea may never be experimentally verifiable, since it relies upon new physics at the a
scale of the heavy neutrinos, approximately 10!° GeV. iB
EWBG is by design highly testable at colliders since it relies upon new physics at the scale of :
the electroweak phase transition (EWPT). In principle, we expect that it should be verified during DA
the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) era. One might question whether that test has essentially been Dw
already carried out now, with a negative conclusion, hence the title of this contribution. Here, :
we will present one class of examples to the contrary, but in fact there are also others that have :3
been discussed at this meeting [3]. The model we focus upon is based upon a two-step phase :3
transition in which a singlet field first condenses, before making a strongly first-order transition :
to the electroweak symmetry breaking (EWSB) vacuum. It is also possible to get a strong EWSB
transition using a second field that transforms non-trivially under the standard model SU(2),,
gauge symmetry [4-6].
For completeness, we briefly recapitulate the essential ingredients of EWBG [7-9], summarized
in figure 1a. If the EWPT is first order, bubbles of the broken phase with non-vanishing Higgs
VEV v will nucleate and grow. Standard model fermions should interact with the bubble
walls in a particle-antiparticle (CP)-violating manner so as to produce a chiral asymmetry—an
excess of left-handed versus right-handed fermions in front of the wall. In this region, baryon-
violating sphaleron interactions are in thermal equilibrium, and try to erase the chiral asymmetry,
converting it into a baryon asymmetry. These baryons eventually fall inside the expanding bubble,