Noise contributions) on nonlinear crystallization dynamics: solid phase—mushy layer boundary (a), mushy layer—liquid phase
boundary (6) and solid fraction at the solid phase—mushy layer boundary (c). The sea ice—water parameters correspond to
figure 2, and Ty = —20°C, 0 = 0.005 ms~". (Online version in colour.)

sensitive to random fluctuations in To and u induced by external physical processes. Namely, the
pure ice a(t) and mushy layer b(t) boundaries move more rapidly with increasing noise intensities
er and ¢, (the corresponding curves have been plotted as a result of time averaging over 1000
numerical experiments). This behaviour of the phase transition boundary b(t) coincides with the
previously studied model of mushy layer evolution where the classical (conductive) Stefan-type
boundary conditions have been used [41]. In addition, both noise sources give a cumulative effect
(figure 4). In other words, the phase transition boundaries propagate even faster when To(t) and
u(t) fluctuate simultaneously. As this takes place, the solid fraction g,(t) decreases with increasing
er and ¢,. This is due to the fact that the mushy layer thickness b(t) — a(t) also expands with
growing noise, which in turn decreases its solid fraction.

5. Conclusion

In the present paper, we constructed two exact analytical solutions of nonlinear unsteady-state
mushy layer equations that describe the directional crystallization of binary mixtures (sea ice—
water systems) with allowance for turbulent motion in the liquid. The first exact analytical
solution that describes the freezing scenario with a constant atmospheric temperature and friction
velocity is found in a parametric form. The second analytical solution corresponding to a more
common freezing regime when the temperature and velocity represent arbitrary functions of time
is written out in full in the form of a standard Cauchy problem. The nonlinear behaviour of the
obtained solutions is analysed in cases of deterministic dynamics and stochastic fluctuations in