a singularity in the zeros of the STFT. The method then segments the contours whenever they :B
cross the zeros of the STFT. This raises the question: why do contours necessarily pass through :s
zeros of the STFT? The RV as stated in expression (2.13) is oriented, in the vicinity of the zeros ,
of the spectrogram (of a bat signal) displayed in figure 1a), as shown in figure 1b. Note that this
behaviour for RV in the vicinity of the zeros of the spectrogram is independent of the signal
studied. Consequently, the zeros can be viewed as repellers for the reassignment vector field.
Then, owing to the ‘mod z’ term in the definition (3.2), (RV(@, f), Va(,t) mod x) is positive above a
zero and negative otherwise. Thus, the contour is horizontal in the vicinity of these points. Note
that, owing to TF discretization, zeros of the spectrogram cannot be exactly determined; therefore
a contour, in practice, passes in the vicinity of the discrete minimum but not necessarily exactly
through it.

Another interesting aspect of the proposed method lies in the fact that the contour does not
necessarily last for the whole time span of the signal: if the energy becomes locally too small the
ridge ends on the nearby zeros of the STFT. This last point is very important because it indicates
that a mode dies when it connects with a zero. Usually, the presence or otherwise of a mode is
assessed in terms of the statistics of the spectrogram of the noise. The basic idea being that, in
order to qualify as a mode, the points should not obey this statistic, and an ad hoc machinery
is required to connect such points [20]. In our framework, it is not necessary to perform any
statistical analysis to characterize the birth and death of a mode, because our study is based on
the locations of the zeros. An illustration of this phenomenon is given in figure 1a, where the
contours and the zeros are superimposed on the spectrogram of a noisy bat signal.

Finally, to build the basin of attraction knowing the location of a contour, we consider the
most frequently occurring contour in the vicinity of (fo, t), ¢(@, #)). Each point (@,t) is then