Problems associated with purification of CESA proteins from plants have limited biochemical
analysis of intact CSCs. In one of the few studies performed, plants were engineered to
introduce two different CESA7 proteins that were each tagged with different epitopes. By using a
purification strategy that involved using both tags, only CESA protein dimers or larger oligomers.
were purified [29]. Analysis of the products on native gels suggested that the majority of the
protein existed as dimers and their higher-order oligomers, such as tetramers or hexamers.
Analysis of the size of CESA protein complex, when one of the other two cesa proteins is mutated,
suggests that nothing larger than a dimer accumulates [29]. Although CESA protein dimerization
is also supported by studies on heterologously expressed rice CESA8 catalytic domain (see
below), it is hard to reconcile dimerization with a CSC that synthesizes only 18 chains and has
1:1:1 stoichiometry for the three different CESA proteins, although it would be compatible with
a CSC containing 24 CESA proteins. As accurate size is hard to predict from native gels, while the
CESA proteins appear as dimers [29], it is possible these could in fact be trimers that represent
one lobe of the CSC.

4. Insights from structural and modelling studies on CESA protein organization

One clear feature of the CESA proteins is their large size compared to their bacterial counterparts
or indeed to other related plant proteins that also make linear chains of B-1,4-linked glucans,
for example CSLC, a related processive glucosyltransferase, which synthesizes the -1,4-linked
glucose backbone of xyloglucan [30] (figure 2). Notably, plant CESA proteins contain two regions
found within the catalytic domain. The domains are known as the plant-conserved region
(P-CR), which is highly conserved among all plant CESA proteins, and the class-specific region
(CSR), which is highly variable among different plant CESAs from the same species, but similar
to homologous CESA from other species (figure 2) [31].