surface moves together with the fluid, thus the normal velocity of a fluid particle on this surface is
the normal velocity of the surface itself. At the rigid bottom the situation is similar except for the
fact that the surface is stationary. Below a certain level, one can consider the flow to be stationary,
and therefore one can take at the bottom U = 0. These two impermeability conditions are purely
kinematic, involving only velocity components. Dynamical conditions, implicating forces, are also
necessary. At the free surface one requires the pressure to be prescribed: P = Ps, P, being the
pressure at the free surface.

Exact solutions to this full problem are very difficult to find. We caution that, even by
neglecting the Coriolis force, there is only one explicit exact solution for the travelling gravity
water waves—Gerstner’s wave, which describes (in Lagrangian variables) two-dimensional
rotational gravity waves in deep-water flow [26-28]. The Gerstner solution is possible if the water
has constant as well as non-constant density [29,30]. This remarkable fact is due to the special
character of these waves, namely that, in a frame of reference moving with the waves, the
streamlines are also the lines of constant pressure, and thus the stratification of the fluid, which
makes the density different from streamline to streamline but constant on the same streamline,
does not disturb the main structure of the dynamical equations. By including the Coriolis effects,
Pollard [10] was able to modify Gerstner’s wave solution to describe, at a fixed latitude, free
surface waves in a rotating fluid. Pollard’s explicit solution to the governing equations (2.1)-(2.3)
without the centripetal term, in which @ is given by (2.4) with f and f treated as constants, the
density of the water is taken constant too and the body force has the components (2.7), together


with the kinematic boundary conditions and the dynamic boundary condition P = Patm = const.,
is provided by specifying at time t the positions