A major structural rearrangement occurs on the ZrOz surface upon deposition of Rug,
at variance with anatase. The O3- atom below the cluster moves down, figure 4; this local
rearrangement results in an almost undistorted Ruyg cluster compared to the gas-phase isomer,
figure 4. The strain at the metal—oxide surface is distributed on the oxide and not on the metal.
The Bader charge on the entire cluster is much smaller than in the TiO} case, 0.28 |e| (table 1), and
there is no evidence of formation of Zr>* ions, indicating that there is no direct reduction of the
oxide surface by deposition of Ruio.

The main objective of this part of the investigation is to verify if a Ru nanoparticle deposited on
the oxide surface induces a net charge transfer, with consequent reduction of the oxide, as found
for other systems, such as Ag nanoparticles deposited on CeOz [49]. The results, however, rule
out this possibility. For ZrO, we have no evidence of the formation of Zr*+ ions when Ru atoms
or clusters are deposited on the surface. This is consistent with the fact that TiO2 is more reducible
than ZrO. However, the general conclusion is that direct reduction of the TiO or ZrOz supports
does not occur by simple deposition of the Ru metal.

We have also considered an alternative process, reduction of the oxide by the effect of an
oxygen reverse spillover. In fact, in the presence of a metal nanoparticle, O atoms may diffuse
from the oxide surface to the metal, leaving behind an oxygen vacancy, with consequent reduction
of the oxide. This is the initial step of what is often referred to as strong metal-support interaction.
The thermodynamic cost to displace an O atom from the (101) surface of TiO2 and ZrO2 in the
presence of a Ru nanoparticle has been estimated: it is very small, about 0.2eV, on TiOz, and
moderate, about 0.6 eV, on ZrO. On the regular zirconia surface the process is associated with
a rather high barrier. Moving an O atom from the Ru/ZrO; interface to the first layer of the
Rujo cluster costs 1.74eV. Smaller barriers, of 0.3eV, are required for the O atom to diffuse to