for bootstrapping; so it was proposed by Hyvarinen [26] that one should analyse a number of
separate datasets. If the independent components are similar enough in the different datasets, one
can assume that they correspond to something real. In some applications, one naturally obtains a
number of data matrices that one would expect to contain the same independent components. In :
the case of neuroimaging, for example, one typically measures brain activities of many subjects, —
and tries to find components that the subjects have in common [27]. In general, even if one only ia
measures a single dataset, one can just divide it into two or more parts. : Se

Using this idea of analysing different datasets, it is actually possible to formulate a proper is
statistical testing procedure, based ona null hypothesis, which gives p-values for each component. i=
The key idea is to consider the baseline where the orthogonal transformation A estimated after al
whitening is completely random, this gives the null distribution that models the chance level :g
[26]. In the space of orthogonal matrices, it is in fact possible to define ‘complete randomness’ :§
as the uniform distribution in the set of orthogonal matrices owing to the compactness of that :
set. To see whether a component is significantly similar in the different datasets, one computes
the distribution of the similarities of the components under this null distribution and compares its
quantiles with the similarities obtained for the real data. This gives a statistically rigorous method
for assessing the reliability of the components. The similarities can be computed either between
the mixing coefficients corresponding to each component [26] or between the actual values of the
independent components [28], depending on the application.

5. Group independent component analysis, or three-way data

In some applications, one does not measure just a single data matrix but several, as already
pointed out in §4. In other words, the random vector x is measured under different experimental