Pathway Complexity to place a lower bound on the threshold above which a trajectory becomes
non-trivial, we can then establish whether an object is undoubtedly of biological origin.

By following this reasoning, it can be proposed that living systems themselves are self-
sustaining non-trivial trajectories in a state space. This means that the biosignatures produced by
living systems are themselves non-trivial trajectories [25]. As such, Pathway Complexity bounds
the likelihood of natural occurrence by modelling a naive synthesis of the object from populations
of its basic parts, where at any time pairs of existing objects can join in a single step. In establishing
the Pathway Complexity we are asking, in this idealized world, if the number of joins required
would be low enough that we could have some population of the desired object rather than
being overwhelmed by instances of all the other structures that could be created. Of course,
some pathways may be more favoured than others (such as in chemical synthesis), but unless
we have special pathways with 100% yield of each substructure on the pathway, then that fact
merely pushes back the threshold. If we find anything significantly above the threshold, then this,
we propose, is a general biosignature. By searching for complexity alone, whether of molecules,
objects or signals, we do not have to make any assumptions about the details of the biology
or its relation to our own biology. By using this new approach, we show below that a rigorous
framework can be developed to search for agnostic biosignatures.

(b) Pathway Complexity: basic approach

The basic approach for determining the Pathway Complexity of an object is applicable when
we are considering the construction of an object in its entirety from defined, basic subunits. The
Pathway Complexity is calculated in the context of any possible objects that could be constructed
from the same subunits. Later we will extend this approach to assessing the complexity of a class