on power system stability analysis.

Over the past decades, the complexity of this task has been continuously exacerbated due to
the penetration of large shares of volatile renewable energy sources. While this is a very desirable
development from environmental and societal factors, the reliable and efficient integration of high
amounts of renewable energy sources represents a major technical challenge for the operation of
power systems [5,6]. In particular, the increasing presence of such units results in power systems
more frequently operating closer to their security margins [5,6]. As a consequence, the problem of
power system stability can be expected to become even more relevant in the coming years. This
makes it important to derive easily and quickly verifiable analytic conditions for stability, which
is the topic addressed in the present work.

A further motivation for our work is the fact that—despite the rich and extensive literature
on power system stability—even today many basic questions remain open. This applies to
the analysis of vast networks, but also to individual network components and is explained
by the complexity of their dynamics. Thus, researchers and practitioners alike are forced to
invoke several assumptions simplifying the mathematical tasks of stability analysis and control
design. Among the most prevalent assumptions are neglecting fast dynamics [7-9], constant
voltage amplitudes and small frequency variations [1, ch. 11, 9]. Invoking such assumptions
allows one to derive reduced-order synchronous generator (SG) models [1, ch. 11] and employ
algebraic line models [7-9], which significantly simplifies the analysis. Unfortunately, most of the
employed assumptions are not physically justifiable in generic operation scenarios. A paramount
example for this is the common approximation of the motion of the machine rotor, i.e. the swing
equation, in terms of mechanical and electrical power instead of their corresponding torques.
However, as this approximation is only valid for small frequency variations around the nominal