of the most reliable high-strength corrosion-resistant alloys and is preferred over alloy 718 due to
the fact that the latter is susceptible to localized corrosion in seawater. In some unavoidable design
configurations, components made of alloy 725 are in contact with other materials that require CP.

The remarkable SCC resistance of PH Ni alloys in H2S-containing environments at high
temperatures has been demonstrated through comprehensive testing [2,4,5]. Laboratory test
results are additionally supported by the extensive use and outstanding field performance record
of these alloys in real applications. However, failures attributed to hydrogen embrittlement (HE)
of oilfield upstream components manufactured using some PH Ni alloys have been reported
in the literature [6-9]. Even though these failures could be classified as hydrogen-environment
embrittlement failures the general term HE has been employed, and is also used in this paper
for referencing the mechanism that involves subcritical cracking at the surface of materials
under sustained loads in hydrogen (H)-bearing environments [10,11]. Despite the fact that HE
susceptibility in PH Ni alloys is a well-known engineering problem [12-15], these failures have
generated questions about both the microstructural characteristics in these alloys as well as the
environmental aspects influencing the failure mechanism during service. Consequently, HE of
oil-patch PH Ni alloys has received, in recent years, increasing scientific attention. Research
efforts have concentrated on developing and implementing testing methodologies capable of
ranking PH Ni alloys in terms of their HE susceptibility. These include a recently established
test methodology [16] that suggests slow strain rate (SSR) testing on samples cathodically
charged at a current density of 5mAcm~? in deaerated 0.5M H2SQ, solution continuously
purged with 10% H2-containing argon gas at 40°C [17-19]. In addition, SSR tests in artificial
seawater have been conducted on samples under cathodic polarization to assess the HE resilience
of PH Ni alloys to seawater exposure at typical CP potentials, or in contact with carbon
steel with and without CP [3,20-23]. Others have also used this environment for conducting