of strain along the (c) axis); this (c+) 7 activation is observed in the majority of plastically
deformed grains in polycrystalline material [13,14]. This property leads to larger strain rate
sensitivity in relation to a lower activation volume for these slip systems [6,13,14]. It seems that
for this stress configuration, a rotation of the (c) axes takes place rapidly in the early stages of the
deformation, which promotes the activation of prismatic slip. Thus, at higher plastic strain, we
observe similar strain hardening and strain rate sensitivity [13,14]. As in the case of prismatic slip,
oxygen content reduces the activation volume of the (c + a) slip suggesting similar mechanisms
for these dislocations in terms of mobility to those proposed for the mobility of screws (a) [14].
This last point deserves to be confirmed by in situ TEM observations.
Owing to its low solubility and high mobility, the effects of hydrogen in solution on the
mechanical behaviour of titanium and zirconium alloys have been less studied. Nevertheless,
some points are now well established. Tensile tests performed on zirconium alloys in the range of
250—-400°C highlight the fact that the hydrogen content leads to a stress softening that depends
strongly on the oxygen content (figure 1). Additionally, an increase in creep velocities has
also been observed [14,44,45]. Using the relaxation tests for the same alloys, it was found that
hydrogen increases the activation volume for moderate oxygen content (0.31% in equivalent
oxygen content Oeq). On the other hand, no significant effect was observed for larger oxygen
content (table 1) [14]. This last point appears to be confirmed by results obtained in zircaloy-4
(0.8 at% in Ocq), where the hydrogen content has negligible effect on the activation volume [44].
All these results are unaffected by different stress orientations despite the crystallographic texture
[47]. Thus, the role of hydrogen is similar on (a) and (c + a) slip systems (table 1).
All the features just discussed seem to be associated directly with the presence of oxygen and
its effect on screw dislocation mobility; therefore, the common explanation given for the impact
of hydrogen in terms of elastic shielding effect cannot be possible in Ti-« and Zr-« alloys [48-50].
Despite this, in situ TEM observations under hydrogen pressure highlight an increase in screw