expenditure on labour is 12 times greater than expenditure on steel in the production of these
five products. Even a high carbon price does little to raise the priority given to steel. More
importantly, the incentives offered by a carbon price are dwarfed by the disincentives to greater
material efficiency caused by labour taxes (the combination of taxes on income, profits and social
security contributions), which deter the substitution of labour for steel. The net result of policy,
even with a high carbon price, remains an incentive to substitute more material for less labour.


This is the opposite effect than would be required to promote material efficiency, and reinforces
the suggestion long-made by Stahel [54] that governments should shift the burden of taxation
away from the renewable resource of labour, and onto the non-renewable resources of materials
and fossil fuels. Baptist & Hepburn [41] re-echo this suggestion, but as yet it remains largely
hypothetical, and has not entered political thinking or implementation. In fact implementation
could be extremely difficult: given the current high ratio of labour tax to energy /material taxes,
a new tax on materials would have to be set at an extremely high level in order to maintain net
government income, and this would give a significant first-mover disadvantage to industries in
any country beginning the switch.

It appears therefore that, while it would be preferable to develop simple policies that target
market failures as closely as possible, there are sufficient difficulties in achieving this to suggest
that in many cases other, less perfect, means may well be easier to implement. Government :
policy in all countries already includes widespread publicly accepted regulation—for example a
on planning permission, building standards, vehicle standards, health and safety and so on. a
So potentially there is a much more immediate intervention available to governments through 23
adjusting existing regulation rather than dreaming of an idealized, yet unattainable, incentive. :s