fantasy is the difference between something active in its imaginative embrace of reality, with
an associated willingness to be challenged by it, and something active in the fabrication and
veil-weaving of fantasy. That, in turn, renders a life of ‘dull fantasy’ an enclosed one, of one’s
own construction: it is to ‘make a small personal world’ [42]. Imagination, on the other hand,
involves willingness to ‘see and take pleasure’ in what is precisely other than oneself. These
themes recur, entwined, across Murdoch’s body of essays, for instance when she distinguishes
between ‘obsessive, self-enclosing’ fantasy and imagination, as ‘the ability to see the other thing,
what one might call, to use those old-fashioned words, nature, reality, the world’ [43].

4. Imagination, fantasy and techno-optimism

Neither the findings of the natural sciences nor the offerings of technology, as available now or
as anticipated in the future, stand before us, as Murdoch put it, simply as ‘a world of “facts”’, but
rather as ‘a world upon which our imagination has, at any given moment, already worked’ [44].
They are received by the active mediation of imagination, either honestly or fantastically, at the
level both of the individual and of the wider culture. We might ask, then, what it would mean to
react to proposed technological responses to climate change (including ones relating to patterns
of demand for materials) in a mode of either imagination or fantasy.

The most obvious example of the power of imagination and fantasy here may be climate
change denial. The findings of climate science, however objective they may be, clearly do not
settle the matter for many. By some, certainly, these findings are received into their image of reality

8A note is due on J. R. R. Tolkien’s strikingly different use of the word fantasy in his influential essay ‘On fairy stories’ [30],
which is widely considered to be his theological prose masterpiece. It constitutes a defence of fantasy, and may therefore seem