four reasons for early replacement, and suggest alternative design strategies to allow an extended : S
use of the material. However, despite the technical possibility of design and maintenance for : 2
longevity, marketing strategies are successful in persuading consumers to replace goods earlier 14
than necessary, and as a result Roberts et al. [37] examine the causes behind such regretted _
purchases. : 4

The final lens in figure 3 describes a much broader category of perception along a spectrum Dh
from imagination to fantasy. This distinction, introduced in this volume by Davison [38], : S
recognizes that no product exists independently of its associations and meaning. Studying : EN

Coleridge and Murdoch, Davison [38] proposes that scientific facts about climate change are
received through acts of either imagination or fantasy and that subsequent actions depend on
these perceptions. Murdoch writes ‘The world which we confront is not just a world of “facts”
but a world upon which our imagination has already worked.’ An imaginative act demonstrates
a willingness to change one’s image of the world through what one encounters and is required
to step out of the cycle of ever accelerating production. By contrast, an act of fantasy involves a
closing in and a projection of the world as one wishes it were—the outlook attributed to climate
scepticism/denial and techno-optimism about supply-side solutions.

Figure 4 provides an illustration of this distinction between imagination and fantasy. The first
image is an expression of imagination: the image bears little similarity to its target, but both
to the creator at the time and to the recipient years later it carries a rich association of time,
place, optimism and relationship. As Fletcher says [40], it ‘pays attention, it involves agency
and it is fundamentally integrative.’ The second image, created by a marketing agency, conveys
only fantasy. The viewer is given little space to add personal interpretation to the message that