inclusions. The rarity of vapour bubbles in fluid inclusions in Monahans and Zag halite suggests
a low formation temperature—less than 100°C, and probably less than 50°C, assuming that the
formation pressure was low—a few tens of bars at most. The bubbles that are present are small,
and may have resulted from freeze stretching of the inclusions during space exposure [30]. The
vapour bubbles represent the water vapour in equilibrium with liquid water at room temperature

and, as such, are essentially a poor vacuum with a calculated pressure of about 0.03 bar. No gases, : =
such as COz, No or CHg, were detected during Raman analysis of the inclusions, and because the : S
detection limits for these gases are generally in the range of a mole per cent in fluid inclusions, if : 2
these gases are present, their concentrations are low. 14

Why were fluid inclusions not found in meteorites before 1999, especially in meteorites where _
the activity of liquid water was evident? In fact, over the years, there have been scattered reports : Ss
of fluid inclusions in meteorites [33,34]. One of the more widely known studies of fluid inclusions : S
in meteorites, and the one that led to reports of fluid inclusions in meteorites being viewed with :&
scepticism for many years, was that of Warner et al. [34]. In that study, the authors reported : &

the presence of two-phase, liquid—vapour inclusions in silicate minerals in diogenite ALHA
77256, and some lunar rocks. These inclusions exhibited moving vapour bubbles (similar to those
observed in Monahans and Zag halite), and Raman analysis of the inclusions showed that they
contained an aqueous phase (again similar to the Monahans halite). The Raman spectra also
showed evidence for higher hydrocarbons in the inclusions (also present in the Monahans halite,
see below). The great interest in fluid inclusions generated in the planetary science community by
this report was short-lived, however, as later investigation of the same samples showed that the
inclusions were artefacts from specimen preparation fluids [35]. Rudnick et al. [35] state in their