phase jump of about 1/2 to 2, while the spectral phase shows a dispersive behaviour and a [&
central jump height of about 2/2. These features occur at the positions of the excitations in the ,
sample. Furthermore, the spectral phase exhibits asymmetries, contrary to a pure antisymmetric
phase characteristic for a Lorentz resonance about the resonance frequency. This goes along with
the well-known asymmetric line shape of the Fano-shaped waveguide mode resonance, which
resembles an EIT-like situation in the case of TM polarization. The results from experiment and
theory can be modelled and explained on a physical basis via a transmission amplitude containing
mere Lorentz resonances with additional scattering phases. Including a Lorentz resonance to
account for excitations in the background material at UV wavelengths also leads to the desired
asymmetry. The depiction of the transmission amplitude in the complex plane yields deeper
insight into the nature of the resonances. As theory and model results show, the transmission
amplitude performs a circle in the complex plane, and this circle appears rotated with respect
to the circle origin. This fact is due to the scattering phases and neighbouring resonances. The
influence of the different parameters on the appearance of the complex plot gives useful hints for
the design of optical elements.

The samples show very high values around 90000 fs? for the GDD, which is a prerequisite
for a possible applications in dispersion compensation. Although the GDD curves are rather
fluctuating, the samples could be employed in certain wavelength regions and in situations
where some losses are tolerable. Group refractive indices of 700 and 70 were determined for TE
and TM polarization, respectively, which are substantially larger than the ones expected in the
metamaterial case. These values are remarkable, given that the sample structure is only of the
order of 100nm thick. This work was conceived in A.S.’s diploma thesis (University of Bonn,
2005).
