many-body system. As a result, the patterns depend on both the geometrical properties of the mea)
pillars and their initial layout, as well as their physical properties and that of the liquid phase [90]. :
As such, predicting the final properties of the pattern is not directly attainable by means of a linear a]
stability analysis and more intricate models must be used [90]. DNS

5. Conclusion &

Patterns in nature have a staggering regularity, which often contrasts with the complexity of their
constituents. When attempting to throw pottery, novices soon realize that shaping clay on a wheel
requires an extensive skill set and some level of strength. Yet, the unintentional drying of the same
clay automatically results in cracks at its surface that arrange themselves in an organized tile-like
pattern. The apparent ease with which such patterns occur suggests that they are encoded in the
blueprint of nature and thus spontaneously emerge. In fact, similar patterns are found to cover
mud and salt lakes the world over, on kilometric scales.

In this review article, we have used a series of classic fluidic problems as a vehicle to
discuss pattern formation and its close relationship with instabilities. Specifically, in the interfacial
problems described in this review, we have found that instabilities can be the origin of the
pattern’s wavelength. The most unstable mode of deformation, which is not necessarily that
predicted by a simple temporal instability analysis, tends to surpass all other modes so that
a single length scale emerges, thereby enforcing the regularity of the resulting structure. This
wavelength, which appears at the onset of the pattern genesis, is then often recovered in the
final structure, although often other mechanisms (nonlinear saturation, singularities) enter in
the process of finalizing the pattern. As such, linear stability analysis is a powerful tool that
enables us to rationalize some of the pattern’s features. The main asset of this type of theoretical