Schwinger to derive properties of quantum angular momentum (such as Clebsch-Gordan :
coefficients) from known behaviour of quantum harmonic oscillators [28,29]. This connection was : a
also discussed explicitly by Danakas & Aravind in [2], who described in detail the connection :s
between HG and LG laser modes and the two-dimensional quantum oscillator, although without :
the connections with the classical analogue.
LG and HG modes are therefore eigenfunctions of the operators L,M and HG modes rotated
by 45° are eigenfunctions of M. These operators all have the same spectrum, labelled by u =
—N,-N +2,...,N —2,N for mode order N. Each is a basis for Gaussian modes of mode order
N, inequivalent because the commutator of the corresponding operators does not vanish. The
lowest-order members of the HG and LG sets, labelled by N and j, are shown in figure 4. The
‘swings and roundabouts’ distinction between linear back-and-forth motion associated with M
and angular motion with a definite sign associated with L, gives a physical interpretation to the
fact that HG modes are real-valued, resembling a standing wave pattern, whereas LG modes
are complex with a definite sense of angular momentum direction in the azimuthal phase factor
exp(it@), although both HG and LG modes have the same eigenvalues. Real LG modes such as
those discussed by [13], with angular dependence cos ¢@ or sin ¢@, are not eigenfunctions of L,
but are of L2: they may occur in laser cavities whose mirrors have some spherical aberration [13],
or if a defect in the cavity generates a nodal line. As we are considering stationary modes, it is
natural to expect real LG modes occurring as modes of cavities, like HG modes; devices such
as cylindrical lenses (or indeed, spatial light modulators) are required to synthesize LG beams
carrying orbital angular momentum of definite sign, as appreciated by Allen et al. [11].
Just as alternative classical constants of the motion can be made by linear combinations,
so can new operators such as C=u- (M, M,1) involving the scalar product of the unit vector
u = (X, Y,Z) with the vector of operators (MM, 1). We see that C is the canonical quantization of
the constant of the motion C= XM + YM + ZL corresponding to the elliptic polarization state at