materials. To demonstrate this, the explicit FE code was used to simulate several acquisition
speeds of a hypothetical camera by changing the data output frequency so as to match the
interframe time of a real acquisition system. The simulated acquisition speeds were in the range
of current actual ultra-high-speed cameras, namely 5Mfps, 2 Mfps, 1 Mfps, 500 kfps and 100
kfps. The obtained elastic displacement fields were directly implemented in the VFM processor.
The identified apparent Young’s modulus and the mean values with corresponding standard
deviation are presented in figure 7a,b and the temporal discretization of the axial stress averaged
on the entire observation surface is presented in figure 7c. In all cases, a linear curve fit was used
in all cases to expand the virtual fields and the second-order polynomial was used to obtain the
acceleration fields.

These results demonstrate that temporal resolution higher than 100kfps provides a more
reliable identification of material stiffness. This is due to the fact that the higher the acquisition
speed, the more useful frames are obtained from the simulated sequence that can be exploited
for reconstruction of the acceleration field (size of the temporal window) which finally results
in a better temporal discretization of the reconstructed stress response (figure 7c). Nevertheless,
in the case of a spalling test, the highest frame rate cannot be considered as the best solution
owing to the limitation of the number of images obtained during one shot with an ultra-high-
speed camera (180 images with a Kirana model and 128 with an HPV-X2). Thus, this would
drastically decrease the measurement time and make it impossible to have images for both the
compression and tension phases of the test. In any case, it is still useful to capture the material
behaviour in the compressive stage. As the sample is assumed to be loaded elastically in this part
of the test, recording this phase enables one to determine the dynamic Young’s modulus of the
sample along with verifying that no compressive damage is introduced in the sample. Taking
into account the usable number of frames from a specific sequence at a given frame rate with the