
The last point leads to one of the challenges I anticipated. The back propagation mechanism
may promote risk aversion, and this may be a difficulty. If all agents in the network are made
equally and fully responsible for the outputted morally distributed action—recall the three
cyclists example—then it is possible that some of them, more prudent, will adapt more readily
than some others, less prudent, to deal with such DMR. In the three cyclists example, some
cyclists may decide never to ride in a couple, just to be on the safe side; and a third, imprudent
cyclist joining a couple may force a more prudent member of the couple to leave. This is the same
phenomenon that makes it possible for reckless drivers on a motorway to be safe, by relying on
the restraint and extra care exercised by the majority of more careful drivers. The outcome is a
promotion of a few cases of irresponsibility counterbalanced by many cases of extra cautiousness.

This first challenge is due to the fact that the resilience of the network and its ability to improve
its performance is not based on all agents in the network sharing an equal degree of risk aversion.
As long as the network improves its output, the mechanism of back propagation of faultless
responsibility makes it irrelevant whether some agents contribute more or less to the performance.
This is in itself a problem of fair distribution of pressure: some agents will feel more in need to
improve the overall outcome than others. However, through time, interactions between more

21On the distinction between relative and absolute human rights, see [30].

It is fair to object that this appeal to common knowledge does not address different agents’ relative costs of defection from
the network. To take a corporate example, a highly successful executive can afford to challenge a boss’s immoral policy
proposal, or even quit the job in protest, than can a young employee. This is another reason why an intelligent and informed
evaluation of the circumstances remains unavoidable. In terms of a sense of responsibility, individuals will feel differently