inescapable phenomenon [4]. One manifestation of its dominance is the speed with which digital
technologies are adopted. For example, it took only 10 years for smart phones to penetrate 40%
of US households compared with landline phones that needed 30 years to reach a mere 10% of
US households [5]. Yet the apparently inexorable rise of big data has prompted a broad gamut
of mixed and conflicting responses. At one end of the spectrum, we find unbridled enthusiasm
about the proliferating opportunities to improve our lives; at the other end, there is increasing
alarm at the pressures and distortions to which big data applications subject valued patterns of
life. For every opportunity that big data presents, there seems to be a corresponding anxiety.
That is not unusual in the history of technology, particularly in the history of transformative
technologies such as computers. Already in the 1960s Vance Packard and others warned about
the risks that computers along with other technologies pose to privacy [1,6]. There is, however,
something rather unprecedented going on here. The ubiquity, the pace of development and the
very fact that big data has already become an unavoidable part of human life set the scene for an
intense and potentially destabilizing encounter between big data and ethical norms. For many,
this is far beyond an encounter; rather it is a brutal head-on collision, for example, between big
data applications and the norms protecting individual privacy [7].

The Snowden revelations about government surveillance confirmed growing fears about how
certain uses of big data can undermine not just privacy, but ultimately trust, democracy and
liberty [8]. The disturbing stream of reports about hacked databases, data kidnapping and other
cybercrime stoked fears of a new vulnerability in the digital world. Can we harness the potential
of big data while keeping faith with our values? Do such values need to be ‘translated’ for the
new digital environment? If the way we live our lives is undergoing such transformations, are
our existing ethical values still relevant? Many have claimed that privacy, for example, is obsolete
in today’s world, partly because it is impossible to achieve and partly because it does not fit with