representation of the modelling landscape of selected parts across physics, chemistry and biology
indicates where we need to increase efforts and progress in order to bridge between what can be
perceived as modelling silos.

Next, we would like to clarify that our view on modelling is agnostic with respect to the
issue of reductionism. The vantage point is that because nature is connected, events at different
spatial and temporal scales are related to each other, within some limits naturally. Networks
in biology are one example of this principle [48]. Hence, models capturing nearby levels (i.e.
quantum descriptions of chemical systems) will thereby be amenable for model reduction and
mapping between state variables. This view is also consistent with the emergence of new
phenomena at one level not perceivable at another level, such as the example of the concept
of temperature. This elementary observation together with the existence of physical laws is the
basis for the fact that a system in nature allows a shorter description than the system itself.
Further supporting this perspective is the crucial derivation by Noether [49] that there exists a
conservation of an entity whenever there is a symmetry in the system. This has been exploited
and extended in physics, essentially leading to a global constraint on which states a system
can visit, hence an effective reduction in complexity. Whether there are analogous yet modified
notions of symmetry in living systems remains to be investigated. In summary, from the existence
of low-dimensional manifolds, we conjecture that there exists a reduced system description in


terms of complexity. Finally, when auxiliary bridges and modelling techniques can be developed
as outlined above with applications across biology, chemistry and physics, we will be in a
position to analyse these effective models of living systems from different vantage points. On
the one hand, we can try to extract simplifying principles for different systems at different scales