
Figure 2. Sketch of the Couette flow problem. Colours identify the different simulation regions: DSMC (red area) extends over : Ss
the fraction a of the total domain; the pure LBM region (grey area) extends over the remaining 1 — a part of the total Sy
domain. The buffer region (blue area) is also shown. The velocity profile is reproduced: within the Knudsen layer, owing to 1S
non-equilibrium effects, a nonlinear behaviour is found. oS

The proposed flow problem is at Kn=0.10. While the rarefaction effects for the tested :3
conditions can be treated within the bulk of the flow by implementing appropriate boundary [8
conditions for the coarse level solver, non-continuum effects produced by the flow gradients :
in proximity of the walls cannot be captured by the classical D3Q19 model, so a microscopic
description is needed. The flow considered here, therefore, appears appropriate to validate the
proposed hybrid model, as a separation of scales is naturally present. In the bulk of the flow, in
fact, the hydrodynamic variables vary substantially over the macroscopic scale, in turn dictated
by the domain geometry; close to the walls, especially within the Knudsen layer, those changes
take place at a length scale much closer to the molecular one. In the literature, several analytical
solutions for such uniform shear stress flow have been proposed both for the case of Maxwell
molecules, based on the moment-hierarchy method [39,40], and for the BGK collision term
formulation [41,42]. In particular, for the latter case, which is of interest here, it was found that,
within the bulk of the flow, for distances greater than at least a mean free path from either wall,
a normal solution, i.e. a solution constructed by the Chapman-Enskog method, exists, at Navier—
Stokes order, for a Kn based on channel height smaller than about 0.2. From a mathematical point
of view, and within Grad’s formalism, this is equivalent to saying that, whereas the bulk flow can
be accurately described by a single-particle distribution function truncated at the order N = 2,
the flow at the wall requires that the distribution should include terms above the second-order
ones. However, a clear connection between the rarefaction and non-equilibrium conditions and