Figure 4. Speed-up as a function of the parameter a comparing the computational times required to fulfill the convergence : =
criteria. The error bars represent one standard deviation for 100 simulation times. Blue symbols denote the speed-up obtained DR
by the hybrid method with respect to the full DSMC simulation, whereas red symbols denote the speed-up obtained by simply eri
summing the times required for DSMC to evolve over the w part of the domain and LBM over the entire domain. In the inset, : =
the found extra gain is also shown. At w = 0.2, a 25% extra speed-up is achieved by the hybrid method. : 8
:s
S
&

sum of the times required for DSMC to run over the @ fraction of the domain and for LBM over the
whole domain, t,gm+psmc- In particular, for a = 0.2, more than a sixfold reduction with respect
to a full DSMC simulation is achieved. It has also to be noted that the computational overhead,
due to the fact that the LBM extends over the whole domain and not just over (1 — @), is very
limited. For the tested conditions, in fact, a full LBM simulation is about 80 times faster than a
full DSMC simulation, performed over the whole domain. The measured extra speed-up, defined
as tLBM+DSMC/thybridy Was found to be 25% for a =0.2 and 16% for w = 0.36. Such computational
extra gain may qualitatively be explained by considering that the LB information processed in
the bulk provides a higher quality, less noisy, input to the DSMC in the Knudsen layer than bulk
DSMC alone. Thus, LB serves as a sort of DSMC accelerator.

Finally, a clarification about the flow domain decomposition technique and its range of
applicability is due. This type of hybrid approach is a suitable choice to analyse multiscale
problems if the flow features a bulk region for which a constitutive model is known to be
accurate, but it may become not an efficient nor an accurate method if such a condition is not
fulfilled. This would be the case, for example, of the Couette flow at a larger Kn number than