
The alkyl chains of fatty acids are assembled into lipid structures through a lipid synthesis
process. DHA is the precursor of many DHA-containing phospholipids, including PE, PC and
PS. Several classes of highly enriched phospholipids in the outer segment membrane of the retina
are known to be involved in free fatty acid generation, and fuel for B-oxidation in mitochondria.
In this study, we identified a number of phospholipids, including the aforementioned
three lysophospholipid species that contain polyunsaturated docosahexaenoyl omega-3 chains.
Statistically significant (p-value < 0.005) lower levels of lysoPE (22:6), lysoPC (22:6) and lysoPS
(22:6) were observed with a 1.3-fold, 3.2-fold and 1.6-fold change in the degenerating eyes of
three-week-old RCS rats (figure 4b-d), respectively. This correlated with the parallel decrease of
DHA in the diseased eyes (approx. 1.5-fold decrease at three weeks, p =0.005). PE (22:6/22:6)
and PC (22 :6/22:6) were also detected at abundant levels in the eyes, which was consistent with
the fact that, in the outer segments, 22: 6n-3 accounts for 34.2% of the fatty acid in PE and 34.1%
of the fatty acid in PC species [35]. The PEs are especially interesting as they could conjugate with
all-trans-retinal to form different condensation (and toxic) end-products including N-retinylidene-
N-retinyl-phosphatidylethanolamine (A2PE), A2-dihydropyridine-phosphatidylethanolamine
(A2-DHP-PE), all-trans-retinal dimer-PE and A2E [36].

(d) Temporal trend of all-trans-retinal and N-retinyl-N-retinylidene-ethanolamine

Maintenance of the visual cycle and synthesis of toxic end-products in the eye is also of
utmost clinical interest. 11-cis-retinal is a polyene chromophore that is required for vision. Light
isomerizes 11-cis-retinal to generate all-trans-retinal (atRAL) in photoreceptor outer segments
but must be re-isomerized in RPE cells. Dysregulation of this process results in blindness and
photoreceptor degeneration [37]. The LC/MS detection of atRAL, including structure, RT, EIC