level and further investigation is needed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that
showed a distinct temporal trend of atRAL and A2E between dystrophic and healthy eyes.

(e) The quantitative effect of stem cell-derived retinal pigment epithelium transplantation

At present, no treatments are available for photoreceptor degeneration in AMD patients although
preclinical studies have shown that transplantation of viable stem cell-derived RPE cells can
mediate anatomical and functional photoreceptor rescue in RCS rats [6-9]. While we would expect


to observe increased levels of photoreceptor-specific long-chain PCs, PEs and PSs in eyes injected
with stem cell-derived RPE, the effects on other classes of metabolites are more difficult to predict.
In this study, the results showed that DHA-lipids can in fact be rescued by RPE transplantation.
Figure 4e is a pNLC that extracted the neutral loss of 141.018 Da from MS/MS spectra of all
selected precursors in the MS/MS analysis. The loss of fragment 141.018 Da is a characteristic
neutral loss in MS/MS fragmentation of PE species and this identification method has been
described previously [18]. Therefore, the pNLC basically shows the intensity and RT distribution
of the whole PE species in the LC-MS/MS analysis. As shown in figure 4e, either the PEs contain
one DHA acyl chain (PE (20: 4/22: 6)) or two PE chains (PE (22: 6/22: 6)) were very abundant in
the wild-type rat eyes (black pNLC trace). While these DHA-PEs were observed to be much lower
in the diseased RCS eyes (almost completely disappeared, red pNLC trace), their levels seemed to
be significantly rescued in the eyes with RPE grafts (blue pNLC trace). A BPC extraction for PCs
(base peak 184.073) and pNLC for PSs (neutral loss: 185.01) was conducted and the result showed
again that RPE injection could also rescue those types of lipids that contain the PUFA DHA acyl
chain(s) (data not shown). Those observations were consistent with the previous finding that