molecules, their fragments or other species formed during the ionization process. MS enables :&
direct identification of molecules based on the mass-to-charge ratio as well as fragmentation {2

patterns. Thus, it fulfils the role of a qualitative analytical technique with high selectivity.

The twentieth century brought a number of milestone developments in the physical and
natural sciences, which are qualitative in their nature. Examples include: nuclear fission,
discovery of penicillin, elucidation of DNA structure, sequencing genomes or identification of :
numerous diseases. It also saw remarkable developments in the technologies enabling qualitative =
studies on the molecular level. Instrumental techniques such as scanning tunnelling microscopy, 3
confocal microscopy, capillary electrophoresis or nuclear resonance spectrometry had enabling
roles in the rise of several branches of science—nanotechnology, genetics and bioimaging. In nee)
fact, technology is vital for the rapid growth of these disciplines. The employed techniques :
had to catch up with the demand for the increased performance and outstanding specifications. a]
A mismatch between the capabilities of technology platforms and the requirements of target DN
applications could lead to erroneous results and flawed conclusions, which might subsequently iG
mislead scientists and policy-makers. 8

While qualitative analysis tools played a huge role in many important discoveries in the past ,
centuries, modern science increasingly relies on quantitative data. Discoveries in fundamental
research as well as industrial and clinical applications often require reporting relative or absolute
quantities of target molecules. Unfortunately, many of the available MS methods did not
perform in quantitative chemical analysis as well as the well-established optical spectroscopic
counterparts. It is already clear that in many sub-fields of biochemistry (e.g. proteomics),
one cannot move on without quantitative molecular analysis. To address the pressing need