
Before getting too pleased with ourselves at the power and subtlety of the SM (or despairing : Sg
of our ability to extend it), it is worth remembering that it fails entirely to incorporpate one of the : S
fundamental forces. Gravity is described by the general theory of relativity, and in that context is :&
a consequence of the curvature of space-time rather than a force like those in the SM, mediated : s

by gauge bosons. This is a very significant failure in the ambition to describe natural phenomena
in a single framework. Worse, even in partnership with general relativity, the rotation curves of
galaxies, weak lensing of light and the large-scale structure of the universe cannot be described
without introducing ‘Dark Matter’, for which the SM does not contain a compelling candidate
(though the possibility of strongly bound composite SM states is still discussed, e.g. [60]). The
low level of CP violation possible from SM mechanisms has not been reconciled with the gross
violation inherent in the fact that the observable universe seems to consist overwhelmingly of
matter rather than antimatter. And finally, it is probably apparent from the preceding sections
that the SM contains quite a lot of parameters with seemingly arbitrary, but suggestive, values.
These include some, such as the Higgs mass, that look unnaturally ‘fine tuned’, to the extent that
it is very tempting to think that they are fixed by some so-far unknown symmetry or principle
inherent in a larger theory, of which the SM is just a part.

So the story, of which Maxwell’s work was such an important component, is not over. There
is more to be found by continuing to look more and more closely at nature. We do not know
whether any of the hints or inconclusive anomalies currently exercising particle physicists’ minds
(g-2, various bumps and rare decays at the LHC, for example) will fade, or grow and lead to
answers to some of the open questions above. But we do know that there are unknown territories
to be explored and important answers to be found.