spines of F. wislizenii did not condense dew droplets, due to their hydrophobic nature, most
probably due to the pronounced microstructures found on their spines.

As a consequence of this previous work, the current study was formulated with the aim
of gaining deeper understanding of what happens to the dew droplets that form on the dew-
harvesting spines and why C. cinerea is the most efficient at harvesting dew. Koch et al. [8] discuss
the evolution of such plants that inhabit desert regions and how they have evolved structural and
functional relationships that can inspire future smart surfaces, which is the aim of this particular
research (i.e. to inform the design of a future biomimetic water-harvesting device).

Other studies have focused on fog water; that is, Ju et al. [9] observed fog droplets being
directed even against gravity from the tips of Opuntia microdasys to their bases and Cao et al. [10]
also noted the directional movement of fog water on the conical spines of cacti. In fact,
biomimetic-inspired microstructured surfaces have been found to enhance surface transportation
of water [11]. Unlike such studies that have focused on fog water harvesting on cactus spines, the
spines of cacti have also been found to be an important feature in increasing the amount of dew
harvested by certain cactus species [7]. Thus, the spines were the main points of interest in this
study with the aim of informing a future airborne harvesting device. It has been pointed out by Ju
et al. [9] that, at this point in time, it is unclear how cacti use fog harvesting by their spines. With
this in mind, this study’s focus has been to better understand how cacti use airborne moisture.

The challenge of this particular research study has been to assess how and if dew droplets
move along cacti spines and whether there is any evidence to suggest that the dew from these
spines is transported internally to the plant through the areoles. Assessment of these water
movement mechanisms has stemmed from the fact that this study has broad interest across