reduce the tail order substantially. Previous simulations with multi-component SC lipids that
contained a branched CER EOS (where linoleic acid was replaced with a saturated fatty acid
containing a methyl group at the place of the unsaturation) found that, from an initial straight tail
arrangement, the majority of CER EOS molecules remained embedded in the next bilayer [47]. The
differing findings may be due to different protocols adopted in forming the initial structure. In our


simulations, although CER EOS was given an initial straight hairpin conformation, the starting
configuration comprised molecules placed in a loosely packed structure. Hence, CER EOS had the
freedom to fold back and remain in the same bilayer. Because of the reduced mobility in multi-
lamellar structures of SC lipids, a definitive answer to the equilibrium conformation adopted by
CER EOS would require an expensive free-energy calculation that has not been attempted here.
However, equilibration may, in fact, not be relevant for understanding the SC in vivo. The much
higher than physiological temperature for chain melting of SC lipids and strong confinement
between corneocytes may make the pathway of formation far more important for SC lipids than
for liquid-disordered bilayers of phospholipids. CERs are converted to galactosylceramide by
addition of a sugar moiety immediately after synthesis in the stratum granulosum. Simulations
[48] show that galactosylceramides occupy an area/lipid similar to sphingomyelin in bilayers
containing sphingomyelin and CHOL, which is much larger than the typical area/molecule
in the SC membranes. The presence of this large sugar moiety will disfavour the extended =
tail arrangement seen in some CER crystal structures and hypothesized in some models of SC : 3
lipid arrangement [12], and make hydrated bilayers thermodynamically stable. Only once the
unilamellar vesicles have been transported out of the cells is the sugar moiety removed, which mea)
then can lead to a gel-like membrane; at this point, the vesicles seem to lose internal water and :
fold into a stacked disc-like structure [7]. If the lipids are already in the gel phase by the time the a]