[15], significantly higher than the maximum interfacial shear stress for graphene [5,9]. GO-
based paper has also been investigated and it displays a good layered structure that endows
exceptionally high stiffness [13]. Although the deformation mechanisms of monolayer GO and
its impregnated papers have been studied extensively [13,16—-19], a comparison implies that the
factors that affect the stiffness of GO-based materials differ significantly with length scale [20].
Even more importantly, as an intermediate material between monolayer GO and GO paper,
few-layer GO (number of layers less than 20) and multilayer GO (number of layers over 20)
have been studied less extensively regarding their reinforcement of bulk nanocomposites. In
particular, the deformation/reinforcement mechanics of GO with different number of layers has
not been studied systematically. This may be due to the difficulty in fabricating nanocomposites
reinforced solely with mono- or few-layer GO flakes. In addition, it is also not easy to manipulate
the complicated stacked GO structure in micromechanical testing instruments. Despite these
difficulties, few-layer GO could, in fact, have even wider application: (i) it is easier to prepare
than monolayer GO and is thus more amenable to scale-up; (ii) it is more likely to be present
than monolayer GO in some nanocomposite matrices, especially hydrophobic polymers, or even
ceramics and metals; and (iii) bulk nanocomposites based on stacked GO have more practical
applications than GO paper.

In this work, the deformation mechanics of mono-, bi- to multilayer GO structures with
different stacking configurations have been studied. The shift of the Raman D band position (wp)
of GO as a function of strain ¢ has been used to follow the deformation mechanics of monolayer
GO flakes to investigate the validity of continuum mechanics on the microscale. Based on the
estimation of the effective Young modulus of GO [21], its shift rate with strain (dwp/de) is further
used to compare the reinforcement efficiency of a series of different GO flakes.
