
to prepare the system in a new initial condition where all the velocities are reversed. However,
such a proposal remains mainly a Gedanken experiment; the extreme sensitivity to initial
conditions that lies at the heart of chaotic phenomena in nonlinear dynamics renders any such
particulate scheme impossible to realize.

Time-reversal invariance not only occurs in the physics of massive particles, but also occurs
in wave physics to the extent that waves propagate without any dissipative process. Waves are
more amenable to time-reversal schemes since they can be described in many situations by a
linear operator and any error in the initial conditions will not suffer from chaotic behaviour.
It is interesting to note that both the holographic principle and the time-reversal mirror (TRM)
approach are mainly based on the time-reversal invariance of wave equations. They also rely on
the fact that any wavefield can be completely determined within a volume knowing the field
(and its normal derivative) on any enclosing surface [1,2]. Hence, information reaching the two- :
dimensional surface is sufficient to recover all the fields inside the whole volume. Based on these =
properties, Gabor [1] introduced the holographic method providing an elegant way to back- 3
propagate a monochromatic wavefield towards its initial source and to obtain a three-dimensional
image of any radiating object. TRMs exploit also the same principles for broadband wavefield nee)
to physically create a time-reversed wave that exactly refocuses back, in space and time, to the :
original source regardless of the complexity of the medium as if time were going backwards. a]
This latter approach has been implemented with acoustic [3,4], electromagnetic [5] and water DN
waves [6,7]. It requires the use of emitter-receptor antennas positioned on an arbitrary enclosing [Go
surface. The wave is recorded, digitized, stored, time-reversed and rebroadcasted by the same aaa]
antenna array. If the array intercepts the entire forward wave with a good spatial sampling, it ,
generates a perfect backward-propagating copy. Note that for optical waves, this processing is