success of these time-reversal echoes unambiguously evidenced the deterministic nature of spin-
dynamics in NMR, it is clear that the reversal is unavoidably degraded by uncontrolled internal
or environmental degrees of freedom or by imperfections in the pulse sequences. Furthermore,
in the later experiments the degradation in the recovered signal seems to occur in a time scale,
that we could call T3, much shorter than a naive estimation of the characteristic scale of these
perturbations, say ty [9]. Then, the question that arises is whether the complexity inherent to a
large number of correlated spins would enhance the fragility of the time-reversal procedure under
perturbations.

A next generation of experiments to test the fragility of many-body dynamics were initiated
by a team lead by Patricia Levstein at National University of Cordoba (Argentina). These
used mainly the interacting 'H nuclei in organic crystals and liquid crystals in a number of
configurations and settings [7,8,10]. As a whole, the experiments were consistent with the fact
that the experimental T3 never exceeds more than a few times T2. In other words, T3 keeps
tied to the time scale that characterizes the reversed many-body interaction. This led one to
postulate that in an infinite many-spin system the complex dynamics could favour the action
of any small non-inverted interaction that perturbs the reversal procedure. Thus, reversible
interactions become determinant for the irreversibility rate. This constitutes the Central Hypothesis
of Irreversibility that has remained the main paradigm for the Cordoba group. Such a cognizance
was further reinforced by the natural association of many-body complexity with a form of chaos
[11,12], and the confirmation [13] that quantum dynamics of classically chaotic systems should
manifest a dynamical instability [14], that shows up as a perturbation independent decoherence
rate. In summary, we expect that a complex many-body dynamics could rule an emergent mechanism
of decoherence and irreversibility in the thermodynamic limit. With emergent phenomenon, we refer
to the kind of phenomena arising when the number of interacting entities is large enough to be