two Gaussians) is displayed. The arrow marks the zero-order difference (ZOD) described in the text. (b) Experimental MQC
distribution at 200 js together with the 2 Gaussians fitting (L = 2) and 1 Gaussian fitting (L = 1). (c) Number of correlated
spins by the dipolar Hamiltonian as a function of the evolution time, showing the tendency of large cluster and small cluster for
| = 2and for the single cluster for L = 1. (d) Fraction of spins involved in the small and large clusters for = 2. (Online version
in colour.)

The experimental normalized MQC distribution functions were fitted with the multi-Gaussian
model of equation (3.8). For tp < 751s, the fittings with a single Gaussian (L = 1) yield accurate
results whereas for longer evolution times two Gaussians (L = 2) are necessary to achieve similar
quality. This is illustrated in figure 4a, which shows the experimental points for the MQC
distribution at tp = 2001s together with the fittings using L =2. Fittings with L=1 and L=2
are displayed in figure 4b (data corresponding to tp = 2001s), for the sake of comparison. The
fact that a single Gaussian is insufficient to represent the MQC for all the orders becomes
evident.

Returning to figure 4a, the two-Gaussian fitting yields a good agreement with the experimental
data for all coherence orders n 4 0. As discussed above, So(tp) carries information not only on the
ZQC intensities resulting from correlated spins, but also polarization attributable to spins that
become decorrelated by decoherence and various non-idealities. Consequently, the experimental
data of ZQCs were excluded from the fittings at long evolution times. The fact that S,.¢(tp) decays,
indicates that not all the decorrelated spins are detected and therefore the contribution to ZQC is
partial. In order to evaluate the actual effectiveness of the time reversal procedure, we define the
zero-order difference (ZOD) as the distance between the experimental value and the fitted curve
evaluated in 1 = 0, Vtg. The LE incorporating the new definition is
