of the edge states such behaviour of an invariant is explicitly forbidden (see, for instance, Ryu &
Hatsugai [30]). Furthermore, figure 5b shows that the Uhlmann phase behaves in a very non-
trivial fashion for a range of temperatures also when m > 1, in which case the chemical potential
is in the non-topological range. We therefore agree with Viyuela et al. [3] when they state that
the Uhlmann phase ‘does not determine the fate of the edge modes at finite temperature’.
The UhImann phase was simply designed for a different purpose.

In the spirit of Budich & Diehl [7], we have also looked at a different geometric phase for
mixed states, one that is sensitive to changes of the multiplicities in the spectra of the states. For
the interferometric geometric phase, the phase factor is —1 for odd numbers of revolutions in the
Brillouin zone and +1 for even numbers, no matter what the temperature is. This means that the
interferometric phase does not detect any phase transition in temperature, but it detects the same
phase transition as the Berry phase for pure states, i.e. at 1 = 1. In fact, it extends the Berry phase
to finite temperature in a way that captures the periodicity of the state of the Kitaev chain. For
p(k) given by equation (3.4), modelling pure states if T=0 and mixed states if T > 0 induces a
homomorphism between the fundamental groups of the Brillouin zone with endpoints identified
and the equatorial plane punctured at the maximally mixed state. Both of these groups equal
the group of integers, Z, and the homomorphism is n — dn where d is the degree of the Bloch
vector. (Thus, d = 1 if m <1 and d=0 if m > 1.) We can extend this with a second homomorphism
Z— Zp sending n to ei”. Here Zy denotes the multiplicative group of the two elements +1. The
composite homomorphism n— e'“”" is the topological invariant given by the Berry phase for
T =0 and the interferometric phase for T > 0. Observe that the non-periodicity, due to the memory
effect mentioned above, excludes the possibility of extracting a similar invariant from Uhlmann’s
geometric phase.
