the most sensitive tests and to relieve the burden of metrology, these experiments are cleverly
designed to give a substantial signal only if nature misbehaves in the way sought out by the
experimentalists. In determinations of G, we actually have to measure all relevant quantities in
physical units and attack the metrology head on.

The actual numerical value of G has little importance in physics: the orbits of the planets in our
Solar System are known to follow accurately Newton’s law. For example, the orbital acceleration
of a planet around the Sun is determined to a high accuracy by the product of the Sun’s mass and
G. Thus, finding a new value for G that is larger by, say, 0.05% from that given in the textbooks
simply reduces our estimate of the Sun’s mass by this amount. At present, we do not have models
for the structure of the Sun that usefully constrain its mass at this level.

Adding to the mystique is the fact that gravity is the force that is most familiar to us as people
living on the Earth. It is not surprising that reports in the media of significant discrepancies
between experimental determinations of the value of Newton’s constant of gravity can catch the
public imagination, as the publication of our result did in October 2013 [4].

What matters then is not the actual value of G itself (give or take a percentage or so) but
its uncertainty. The real importance of the accuracy of G is arguably that it can be taken as a
measure, in popular culture, of how well we understand our most familiar force: the discrepant
results may signify some new physics, or they may demonstrate that we do not understand the
metrology of measuring weak forces. Owing to the lack of theoretical understanding of gravity,
as alluded to earlier, there is an abundance of respectable theories that predict violations of
the inverse square law or violations of the universality of free fall. In fact, a growing view is
that G is not truly universal and may depend on matter density on astrophysical scales, for