involving the prefrontal cortex activity have limited physiological interpretation due to limits
in the spatial resolution. In future studies, precise electrode localization, paired with individual
morphological magnetic resonance imaging, would be acquired in order to have a reliable
increase of spatial resolution and thus to perform analysis at a cortical surface levels such as
Loreta-based approaches.

To conclude, we demonstrated that a point-to-point linear and nonlinear correlation measure
between instantaneous heartbeat dynamics and EEG time-varying spectra may be a feasible
method to understand the coupling between ANS and CNS. We suggest that EEG oscillations in
the 6 band are the most promising metrics to be used in such an evaluation, especially because this
band have a significant role in monitoring the attentional significance of emotions [92]. However,
it is possible to hypothesize that different EEG bands couple with different aspects of ANS
dynamics. As a matter of fact, in the electronic supplementary material, we were able to show
distinct pattern of coupling between different EEG bands and heartbeat dynamics, although they
were less supported by psychological and neurobiological bases. To this extent, further studies
should effectively focus on other specific bands than 6, also including a larger number of subjects
in order to take into account other covariates such as personality traits and subjective IAPS
rating, which may influence central and peripheral signalling. Moreover, quantification of the
exact amount of nonlinear coupling occurring in brain-heart dynamics should also be performed.

Further studies should also address whether any early /late phenomena as a response of affective
stimuli can be identified in brain-heart dynamics. Moreover, it is important to investigate this
coupling in psychiatric as well as neurological disorders which have been shown to involve both
cognition and ANS dysfunction [93], and whether its alterations could be a specific marker of
mental disorders. According to our findings, we believe that the analysis of EEG 6 rhythms