
with primitive individual processes and events, one considers identical quantum objects such as
electrons or photons (not the identical preparation of each, which cannot be ensured), and the
identically prepared measuring instruments as the initial condition of repeated experiments. The
identical preparation of the instruments can be controlled because their observable parts can be
described classically, while that of quantum objects themselves, again, cannot be. This is why the
outcomes of quantum experiments will in general be different. This situation could, however, be =
interpreted on either frequentist or Bayesian lines, even if one adopts a non-realist view [18]. :

This summary sidesteps some of the deeper aspects of probability, but it suffices for my :
purposes.’ I would like to add that probability introduces an element of order into situations nee)
defined by the role of randomness in them, and enables us to handle such situations better. :
Probability or statistics is, thus, about the interplay of randomness and order. This fact takes a]
on a unique significance in quantum physics because of the presence of statistically ordered DNS
correlations (not found in classical physics) between certain data, such as those of the experiments area
of the EPR type. One of the greatest mysteries, if not the greatest mystery, of quantum physics :&
is that, under certain, but not all, circumstances, random individual events conspire to form .
statistically correlated and thus statistically ordered multiplicities. These correlations are correctly
predicted by QM. This, again, does not mean that it is the only formalism that can predict these
correlations. Bohmian mechanics, the predictions of which coincide with those of standard QM,
predicts them, but at the cost of non-locality.

The principle of locality states that no instantaneous transmission of physical influences
between spatially separated physical systems (‘action at a distance’) is allowed or, which is
a more current formulation, that physical systems can only be physically influenced by their