Heisenberg in fact did, and which enables the theory to relate to observable phenomena and
measurable quantities associated with these phenomena. Heisenberg’s invention of his matrices
was made possible by his idea of arranging algebraic elements corresponding to numerical
quantities (transition probabilities) into infinite square tables. It is true that, once one deals
with the transitions between two stationary states, rather than with a description of such states,
matrices appear naturally, with rows and columns linked to each possible state, respectively.
This naturalness, however, appeared or became natural only in retrospect. This arrangement was
a phenomenological construction, which amounted to that of a mathematical object, a matrix,
an element of a general non-commutative mathematical structure, part of (infinite-dimensional)
linear algebra, in effect in a Hilbert space over complex numbers, in which Heisenberg’s
matrices (‘observables’) form an operator algebra. One can also see it as a representation of an
abstract algebra, keeping in mind that Heisenberg’s infinite matrices were unbounded, which
fact is necessary to have the uncertainty relations for the corresponding continuous variables.
As unbounded self-adjoint matrices, these matrices do not form an algebra with respect to
the composition as a non-commutative product, although some of them satisfy the canonical
commutation relation.

Heisenberg begins his derivation by observing that ‘in quantum theory it has not been possible
to associate the electron with a point in space, considered as a function of time, by means of
observable quantities. However, even in quantum theory it is possible to ascribe to an electron
the emission of radiation’ ([32], p. 263; emphasis added). My emphasis reflects the fact that in
principle a measurement could associate an electron with a point in space, but not as a function
of time, as in classical mechanics. Heisenberg then says:

In order to characterize this radiation we first need the frequencies which appear as