of their generation, evolution and interactions can still not be regarded as completely known
[2,3]. Facing such a challenge, the current practice with respect to wave motions is dichotomous:
in most studies of large-scale dynamics such as general circulation, on both basin wide as well
as regional scales, the surface layer dynamics are glossed over with various parametrization
schemes. Wave motions are neglected, being small scale in comparison with the mean circulation
systems, as the argument goes. The free surface is regarded as a wall; turbulence dynamics at
the surface layer are treated as wall turbulence [4,5]. With careful tuning, the end results seem to
be reasonable, but the deficiency becomes obvious when the demand on accuracy becomes high,
as in coupled atmosphere-ocean climate modelling [6,7]. On the other hand, wave motions are
studied for their role in the detailed air-sea exchanges of mass, momentum and energy, which
are the critical boundary conditions for large-scale circulation problems. As the dynamics are too
complicated to yield definitive answers, the product of the small-scale studies is also reduced to
parametrization. In fact, many of the parametrization schemes of the wave motions were actually
based on ocean surface wind rather than on wave parameters [8]. Yet, the cumulative effort of
past studies has given us a strong hint that waves could not be neglected in the study of ocean
dynamics [6,7,9], not even in large-scale circulation problems, for they are the most energetic
motions in the ocean surface layer, consequently playing a dominant role in air-sea interaction
processes [10] and in ocean mixing way beyond the surface layer [11].

Even with these understandings, many of the past studies of the waves in the context of
ocean dynamics are concentrated on breaking waves [12], for each of the episodic breaking
events would release a huge amount of energy. The breaking events are treated as the leading
source for turbulence generation at the ocean surface layer that controls the air-sea gas transfer
[13]. Further studies, however, reveal that the turbulence conditions so generated are mostly
confined to the surface layer with their energy dissipated locally at a depth of the order of