material, for our analysis indicates that these data are only marginally useful for our purposes.
The detailed data analysis procedures are also given in the electronic supplementary material; we
will outline the data analysis of the vertical components here as follows: the raw data from the
vertical component was first cleansed by removing the occasional outliers caused mostly by data
dropout for lack of suspended particles serving as acoustic reflectors. The root mean squared
value of the cleansed data is 0.10ms~!, which suggests that the magnitude of the velocity is
about O(10-! ms~!). The Fourier spectra for the raw and cleansed data are given in figure 2a
together with a Kolmogorov —5/3 power law spectral form used as a guide for turbulence
motions. From the spectra, we can see that, after the removal of the outliers, the spectrum of
the cleansed data generally follows the Kolmogorov spectral line up to near 10 Hz before finally
levelling off. Ideally, the higher the frequency, the more isotropic the turbulence should be. The
levelling off, however, indicated otherwise; the higher-frequency turbulence seen here actually
approaches white noise, a fact that can only be explained by the insufficient accuracy of the ADV
instrument used in this experiment. The overall spectral shape is similar to those obtained either
in the laboratory [18] or in the field [20], all showing a prominent peak of the surface wave, near
0.2 Hz in this case, and a long tail. Of note here is that the spectral tail, covering nearly two
decades in frequency, indicates that the large-scale waves in the open ocean data indeed offer, for
the first time, a possibility to have a scale separation between waves and turbulence.

To separate wave motion from turbulence, we used the empirical mode decomposition (EMD)
method as a filter [28], which can decompose the data into a series of intrinsic mode functions
(IMFs) and a residual trend varying monotonically. Specifically, given a time series x(t), EMD


(b)