Universal Common Ancestor).

The vertebrate mitochondrial genetic code differs from the standard nuclear genetic code in
just four codons (table 1). However, the degeneracy distribution of the mitochondrial code is
much simpler and more symmetric (table 2(right)). Here, amino acids have either degeneracy
2 or 4. Remarkably, it is possible to show that, also for the mitochondrial code, there is a
unique non-power representation system that describes exactly its degeneracy distribution. The
representation is determined by the six non-power weights (8,8,4,2,1,0). In table 4, we show
the non-power weights for the two genetic codes. Notably, the simplification in the degeneracy
distribution of the mitochondrial code is associated to the presence of a 0 weight (i.e. there are no
elements with degeneracy 1). Since the 0 weight does not enter in the additive decomposition
of a number, its effect is that of a duplication label. This implies that the representation is
split in two identical halves. This fact has profound consequences in the description of the
associated degeneracy and led us to a biological hypothesis on the origin of degeneracy in protein
coding [18].

Similarly to the mathematical model, the biological hypothesis is based on symmetry
properties. Symmetry is the key feature for connecting the mathematical model with the chemical
and biological features of the genetic code. In brief, the main result is that the degeneracy
distribution of the vertebrate mitochondrial genetic code can be exactly described by primeval
tRNA adaptors acting on a particular set of four-base codons that we called tesserae (from
the Greek tessera = four). These adaptors possess the reverse and the self-complementary
symmetries. These symmetries imply the invariance of the interaction Hamiltonian with respect
to such spatial transformations. An interesting possibility to be explored is that conserved
quantities associated to these symmetries might have contributed heavily, in evolutionary terms,