processing in communication systems, pushing the processing to the edge of the network.
One such architecture under investigation for data centres is the hybrid networking approach
[41,42]. This involves using two networks side by side: one a low-capacity, fast electronically
switched network and the other a high-capacity, on-demand optical circuit-switched network.
The electronically switched network provides all-to-all connectivity and is deployed for the
transfer of short bursty flows (mice) including the control and management signals required
for the proper operation of the optically circuit switched network. High-capacity point-to-point
optical connections, on the other hand, are set up on demand and carry high-bandwidth sustained
traffic flows (elephants). This architecture has been realized using commercial three-dimensional
micro-electro-mechanical system (MEMS)-based space switches for millisecond speed switching
[43]. Recently, a silicon photonic chip-based two-dimensional MEMS switch was demonstrated
that can support microsecond switching times [44]. These MEMS switches operate at low power
levels. In fact, the two-dimensional switch can be latched so that almost no power is used
while the switch is in position. Microsecond speed control is low speed from a processing
perspective and therefore very energy efficient. The challenge is in identifying the elephants
and efficiently scheduling the optical circuits through these switches. However, offloading the
high-capacity data to end-to-end optics and pushing the intelligence to the edges has promise to
improve efficiency by the orders of magnitude needed for future network scaling. For example,
in a study of content distribution networks, the energy savings can be in direct proportion


to the difference between the optical system efficiency and the electronic switching efficiency
[45]. To what extent these benefits can be realized remains to be seen and requires both the
efficiency improvements in the hardware together with new control planes to access those
efficiency improvements.