the manufacture of the 18 high-tonnage chemicals accounts for 80% of this energy demand and : 8
75% of the greenhouse gas emissions. The question he raised is how can the processes be made : eS
more efficient given that they are already mature? The highest energy demand was for ammonia :B
and ethene production, the former being a catalysed process whereas the latter is not. Hence he : &

identified major areas for improvement through improved design, but it is recognized these are
tough targets. Water used in chemical processes was also identified as an area for study because
the removal of contaminants is crucial to enable reuse of this resource that is becoming scarce in
many areas. Additionally, the design of catalysts was considered and, reinforcing the comments
of Michel Che, the use of ubiquitous elements was considered a key area for investigation, as is
the design of improved support materials.

Ekkehard Schwab (BASF, Germany) continued by emphasizing the need for factual
information on what to base research directions on the topic of sustainability. He reminded us
that the three pillars that encompass society need to be balanced: these being the Planet—the
environmental pillar; the People—the social pillar; and the Prosperity—the economic pillar. The
question is what is the right balance for these three pillars? He considered the case of nitrous oxide
emission and its decomposition as a key example of how catalysis is enabling the protection of
the environment. It was also clear that many researchers are focusing on CO utilization, and
data were presented showing that CO) is not a free resource as it comes at a price (ca $180/ton
carbon). Furthermore, the use of biomass requires reduction equivalents to make non-oxygenated
platform chemicals, which could require expensive hydrogen.

As the meeting progressed, a number of discussion topics emerged. For example, ethene uses
immense energy in its production but is not a catalysed process; is there an opportunity in the