probability of finding another fault nearby. This latter phenomenon is called non-random faulting Sy
and is not uncommon in heavily defected specimens. Lastly, in some materials faults appear 2
to be regularly interjected into the specimen, and this is referred to as periodic faulting. Screw aed
dislocations are thought to be a common cause of these latter faults [56]. : _

These phenomenological categorizations, while often helpful and sensible, especially for : 8
weakly faulted crystals, are not without difficulties. First, it is clear that each is grounded in the : s
assumption that the native, or ideal, state of the specimen must be a periodic structure. This bias, : a
perhaps not intentionally, relegates non-periodic stacking to less stature, as is evident in the use : &

of the term ‘fault’. It may be rather that disorder is the natural state of the specimen [57], in
which case employing a framework that incorporates this feature of matter upfront will prove
more satisfactory. In fact, it is not even clear that periodic order should be the ground state for
many kinds of materials, even for those with finite-range interactions and in the absence of fine-
tuning of energetic coupling parameters between layers [58], as is found in axial next-nearest
neighbour Ising (ANNNI) models [59]. Second, an analysis of the stacking structure based on
these categories may not be unambiguous, especially in the case of heavy faulting. Third, this
entire view is only tenable in the limit that a parent crystal exists, i.e. it only applies in the weak
faulting limit.

Consistency can be brought to this complicated picture of material structure by using
information theory [33]. A complementary view may be postulated by asking how information
is shared and distributed in a crystal, and a natural candidate for this kind of analysis is to
employ the information measures above. Although the previous exposition used a temporal
vocabulary of a past, present and future, there is no mathematical change to the theory if instead