Raman scattering. The phonon modes from individual CNTs were obtained under the resonance
condition (when the laser excitation energy matches the energy separation between the Van Hove
singularities in the CNT valence and conduction bands). Precise information on the tube chirality
and the diameter can be obtained by studying the radial breathing mode and transverse (G) mode
of the CNT. We emphasize that the detailed knowledge of CNT length, diameter and metallicity
(metallic/semiconducting) makes the corresponding transport data highly falsifiable, and easy
to reproduce in other laboratories. Our study of ionic transport in the precisely characterized
CNTs with a diameter range of 0.94-2.01 nm revealed that the pore blocking current changes
non-monotonically with the CNT diameter (figure 5a). The pore blocking current was highest
for the 1.6 nm CNT, and decreased for the smaller and the larger diameter tubes, consistent with
MD simulations and the experimental predictions on the discontinuous scaling of water transport
with CNT diameter [18-25]. This strong non-monotonic diameter dependence is essentially due to
a step change in confinement effects for CNTs smaller than 2 nm in diameter [18]. In fact, recently
Pascal et al. [53] demonstrated that water molecules inside 0.8-2.0 nm diameter CNTs have
lower free energies than the bulk water, with a non-monotonic trend in entropic and enthalpic
contributions to the free energy with respect to the diameter. We did not find any significant
diameter trend for the dwell time of the ions. Moreover, the pore blocking current did not exhibit
any significant correlation with the metallicity of the CNTs.

The stochastic transport of monovalent (K+ and Cs*) and divalent (Ca*+) cations from our
study confirms the linear correlation (equation (2.1)) of Alplocking with V (figure 5b(i), c(i) [28].
At larger voltages, the linear regime breaks down (figure 5b(i)), possibly due to significant
accumulation of the cations near the negatively charged CNT pore mouth, thereby depleting the
concentration of the current carrying ions (protons). The trend in tgwel) matches the correlation
in equation (2.2) for monovalent as well as divalent cations (i.e. Taye proportional to 1/V;