In this paper we have analysed a set of experimental data that we collected on combinations,
ie. conjunctions and negations, of two concepts. We have isolated five classicality conditions
that should be satisfied in order to represent the collected data in a classical Kolmogorovian
probability framework. These conditions were systematically violated in our experiments, but
the usual overextension is not the only non-classical effect at play. Indeed, the deviation from
the five classicality conditions we have identified is surprisingly independent of the specific
exemplar that is considered, nor does it depend on the specific pair of concepts that are
measured. In other words, the numerical value of, say, I, is the same when different exemplars
are considered, and it is not affected by the specific pair of concepts that are measured. In
addition, I, and Ig, and also I and Ip, have approximately the same numerical value, and the


slight deviation between their values can be attributed to the fact that a positive or a negative
concept is considered. As a consequence, this deviation of classicality cannot be attributed
to an underlying non-classical mechanism of conceptual combination, because the numerical
value of the functions I4, Ig, etc. would then depend on whether ‘A and B’, ‘A and B”, ‘A’
and B’ or ‘A’ and B” is considered—in I4 more negative concepts appear than in I,4. This
is why, we think, this deeper phenomenon could not have been detected in a less symmetric
experimental setting only, aiming at detecting overextension, as we have explained in §1. As it
is reasonably independent of the specific conceptual combination that is considered, this non-
classical effect unveils in our opinion aspects of the mechanisms of conceptual formation, and it
can be numerically represented in our quantum-theoretic framework in two-sector Fock space.
In addition, it can be explained by assuming that human reasoning is a specifically structured
superposition of a ‘dominant emergent reasoning’ and a ‘secondary logical reasoning’, as we
have argued in §5. : =