(ii), we first compute the size of preference reversal. Based on the results from the tables 1-4, there :
exists a slight (about 1-2%) preference reversal in terms of party affiliation in the simultaneous
elections. In the midterm elections, the preference reversal becomes quite substantial. We observe
that between 2008 and 2010 the party affiliation in the Congress elections switched by 7.57%,
ie. the difference between the marginal probabilities p(Cq(2010)) — p(Ca(2008)) is 5» = —0.0757. The
change of preferences in respect to the Republican Congress is logically of the same size, with a
positive sign, because we restricted our observables to dichotomous outcomes.

For the years 2012 and 2014, the difference between the marginal probabilities p(Cg) was
5p = —0.0622 (a positive sign for the Republican Congress outcome probability). Because we :
are dealing with the whole population of voters, we can articulate that these differences are [=
large enough to indicate a substantial preference reversal. We stress that the preference reversal : 3
occurrence is in fact more complex than just switching preferences between two parties, because :
there is also the ‘no voting’ electorate that similarly can alter their preferences from voting to not mea)
voting in the years 2008-2014. As such, this subpopulation of ‘non-voters’ could contribute to the :
changes of the voting statistics, implying that not only changes in party affiliation occurred, but a]
also changes in the overall voting activity. We hope to approach the problem of ‘non-voters’ in ae
one of the future publications. ied

Next, we formulate the LTP [45] to observe if the conditional probabilities of some random i
variables (in the context of this analysis, the C conditioned on P) follow the principle of additivity .
in respect of the total probability of the realization of C. LTP formalizes in rational decision
theories how a classical probabilistic scheme can accommodate the probabilistic conditioning of
events that occurs in a Bayesian mode. We denote the total probability of an event that should be
obtained by LTP, by the letter q: