We can conclude that the non-separability as a consequence of, e.g., question or information order
ina survey or opinion polling study, is a special case of the more global phenomenon of preference
reversal as a result of information that is obtained, accumulated and processed through time
by the cognitive systems of the decision-makers. Another feature of the non-classical mode of
information processing is manifest in the non-classical correlations between voters preference
probabilities. As such, the final choice of the voter as a result of the change of her belief state is not
simply a matter of the interrelation of a set of event outcomes in a Bayesian mode, but it emerges through
the impact of (i) non-classical correlations between the different preferences, and (ii) overtime dynamics
induced by the complex informational ‘bath’ generated by the mass media. Furthermore, the more certainty
the new information brings on the state of affairs, the more ability the decision-maker has to elucidate her
beliefs. An important point to consider, which is related to the collected statistical data, is that we
made the assumptions that the population of the voters is large enough to disregard the different
amounts of voters participating in the different elections. We are aware of the fact that some voters
might not only change their preferences from Cg to C; outcomes (or vice versa), but also decide
to vote for some minor party or to abstain from any voting at all. The voters who do not prefer
to vote at all comprised in 2014 up to 64% of the eligible voting population and the emergence of
their preferences ‘not to vote’, should be studied in more detail.

In particular, the very low voting activity in the 2014 midterm elections, with a turnout of
36.4% only, can be regarded as very surprising, given the intensive election campaigns (at least
on the level of spending this was estimated at $3.67 billion which is much higher in comparison
with other election periods). See [68,69]. The possible correlation that naturally emerges is
that a more intensive election campaign instead of motivating the potential voters to vote for
some party resulted in an opposite outcome. Namely the decision not to vote at all! A quote
from reference [68] supports well this conjecture: ‘apathy, anger and frustration at the relentlessly