bottom perturbations leads to the appearance of vortex ripples. Indeed, if initial perturbations of
infinitesimal amplitude are considered and the parameters of the problem are such that the real
part of az is negative, nonlinear effects cause the perturbation to reach an equilibrium amplitude
|Ae| equal to /—real(a,)/real(az). On the other hand, if the parameters are such that the real part
of a is positive, no equilibrium amplitude exists and the perturbation tends to grow indefinitely.
In the latter case, the bottom boundary layer separates from the crests of the small amplitude
bedforms and vortex ripples appear. As suggested by Sleath [1], vortex ripples appear also in the
former case, when |Ag| is such that the ratio between ripple height and length is larger than 0.1.

As already pointed out, the values of a; and az differ from those determined by Vittori &
Blondeaux [17] of an amount of O(5). Because the value of the parameter 4 is usually quite small,
we argue that the investigation of O(5) effects on the coefficients a1, a2 and the solution (3.13) of
equation (3.11) is not useful. In fact, the results concerning the region of existence of rolling-grain
ripples and vortex ripples in the parameter space are only marginally affected by the uniform
steady streaming. On the other hand, it is interesting to look at the O(8) correction of the value of
ow predicted by Vittori & Blondeaux [17], because O(5) terms in ow cause qualitative changes
in the bottom profile. In fact, 7 is no longer symmetric with respect to the crests and the troughs,
because co) has an imaginary part of O(5). Figure 5 shows the equilibrium profile of the ripples
obtained by means of the theory for fixed values of the parameters along with that obtained
neglecting O(5) effects. The characteristic profile of sea ripples affected by a steady current can be
recognized from the lee side of the ripples being steeper than the stoss side. Of course, in figure 5,
the steady velocity component is from the right to the left. In this case, the symmetry index 13/I}
turns out to be 1.81. The experimental data of K. W. Tietze (1979, personal communication to
J.R.L. Allen) and [5,6,10], which were obtained using sand, and those described in [4], which
were obtained using high density plastic particles, show that the symmetry index increases as the