Both possibilities, initially proposed to single-phase problems, can be conveniently extended
to consider multi-phase flows. Here, the scope of the problem is enhanced, and questions beyond
understanding the details of resistance of the medium to the flow arise. The most direct one is to
describe how the obstacles change the regions that different fluids occupy.

In this work, we consider the flow of a two-phase Newtonian fluid (e.g. water and oil) in a
two-dimensional channel that accommodates a number of circular obstacles (discs), geometrically
displaced according to the Apollonian packing [13-16]. This particular assembly, which has
been used in previous investigations [17,18] about the dependence of k with respect to packing
composed of obstacles of different sizes, aims to describe the main properties of a fractured
medium with grains of different sizes.

For such packing, ¢ and k depend on the number and size of discs [17,18], a fact that influences
the results discussed herein. We would like to call attention that usual porous medium studies
consider that the whole region where the fluid flows is somewhat homogeneous. This differs from
the described model set-up, which is characterized by the presence of obstacles in a limited region
of the channel, the rest being obstacle free. This limitation is due to our intention to concentrate
the study to understanding the effect of a number of obstacles in retaining some fraction of a
resident (defending) viscous fluid (oil) when the region is invaded by a less viscous fluid.

The main goal of this study is to understand how the presence of the packing limits the access
of each phase to different regions of inside the channel. Since we consider, as initial conditions,
that oil occupies the space where the packing is placed, we obtain information about the fraction
of oil retained inside the channel due to the presence of the packing. Our investigation explored
the dependence of the retained oil with respect to the input velocity and the two geometric aspects