Electricity executives insisted that they were providing electricity as cheaply and efficiently
as possible and to as many people as they could, but a good deal of data suggested this was
not so, and many people were saying this publicly. In 1921, Samuel Insull, the industrialist
credited with building the electricity infrastructure of Chicago (and who would later see his
entire enterprise collapse in the Great Depression), decided that the industry needed to do
something affirmative to defend itself, proposing ‘a great campaign of education in the colleges
and other institutions of learning’ ([28], quote in [33, p. 28]). In the 1920s, NELA did just that—
except that both contemporary critics and later analysts would consider it not education but
propaganda.

In the late 1920s, the US Federal Trade Commission began hearings on the activities that
constituted this campaign. The hearings lasted 6 years—almost as long as the NELA campaign
itself—and created a ‘bookshelf’ of reports. In fact, it created a whole bookcase: 71 volumes
comprising 11000 pages [35]. Fortunately, economic historians William J. Hausman and John
L. Neufeld have managed to summarize their conclusions in a single sentence: that ‘private
utilities, led by its [sic] industry trade group, the National Electric Light Association, had mounted
a large and sophisticated propaganda campaign that placed particular emphasis on making
the case for private ownership to the press and in schools and universities’ [29, p. 74]. David
Nye explains further: ‘The thousand of pages of [the US Federal Trade Commission] testimony
revealed a systematic covert attempt to shape opinion in favour of private utilities, in which
half truths and at times outright lies presented municipal utilities in a consistently bad light’
[26, p. 340]. Paul Monticone, writing on the role of film in this campaign, has commented on its
‘outlandish use of virtually every form of communication then available’ to discredit municipal
ownership and extol the virtues of free market capitalism [35].
