monitoring (SHM) and condition monitoring (CM) strategy is particularly necessary and why
current research is focusing on this aim.

In order to perform a health monitoring strategy, one of the initial steps is to acquire the
appropriate data for the purpose of damage detection. For an online approach, which is probably
more appropriate when dealing with remote structures, vibration-based monitoring has been Lo
proven to be a suitable choice. It can be effective with possibly small computational costs :
when using suitable methods. There have been several successful SHM and CM vibration- =
based analysis applications in the past. Generally, one could adopt data-based approaches or 3
physics-based approaches, both having certain advantages and drawbacks [1]. Concerning the {8
data-based methods that will be discussed here, the major issue seems to be that for some :
SHM and CM scenarios only advanced signal processing techniques would be able to deliver fA
the desirable results. This is because of the fact that in the real world most of the times the Dw
features obtained from the monitored signals are, in general, also sensitive to changes caused by :
environmental and operational conditions [2]. In the case of offshore wind turbines, turbulence— a
a term that describes the stochastic scale-invariant changes in the flow properties of the air—and, 1
most importantly, the effects of the operational wind turbine control system could influence the :
vibration signals obtained. So any technique adopted, in order for it to be effective, should be
able to take into account these challenging characteristics of the signals and separate them from
any available damage sensitive feature. Such techniques are discussed in §2 of this paper where
some application examples are also demonstrated. These applications are focused mainly on wind
turbine gearbox and blade damage detection, because it has been observed that these components
have the most frequent failures and can cause the highest downtime in a wind turbine. Still, there
is no limitation in the application of the methods to different components.
