column and keeping only first-order effects of nonlinearity and frequency dispersion. These
classical Boussinesq equations are valid for wavelengths down to roughly a few water depths.
Several formulations are available. Historically, in the early 1990s, several authors used numerical
dispersion to replace physical dispersion [35] in finite-difference schemes. When landslides occur
near the water surface, some of the generated waves are relatively short (of the order of the water
depth). The classical Boussinesq equations can lead to some numerical oscillations. It is then better
to use the generalized Boussinesq equations [36], for which the group velocity of the short waves
does not go to zero. There are so many versions of the generalized Boussinesq equations that
there is no point trying to write them down in this short review. There are also the fully nonlinear


shallow-water generalized Serre equations [37]. They have been rediscovered several times and
are in fact used in FUNWAVE [38,39]. Implementations of these dispersive wave models are
in-house models or available as standard codes, open-source or commercial. The majority of codes
use finite-difference schemes. There is, for example, the Pedersen and Lovholt model, which is
designed for long-distance propagation of dispersive tsunamis [40]. With this model, the Japan
tsunami of 11 March 2011 can be taken across the Pacific Ocean on a standard desktop during
some hours of CPU time. The standard models, such as COULWAVE [41,42] and FUNWAVE
[38,39], use more demanding numerical schemes and incorporate a number of effects that are
not relevant for oceanic propagation. Hence, simulations of oceanic propagation on single CPUs
using these models may therefore be too time-consuming, unless the recent parallel versions (e.g.
[39,43]) are used. Recently, Kazolea et al. [44] developed a high-order well-balanced unstructured
FV scheme on triangular meshes for modelling weakly nonlinear and weakly dispersive water
waves over slowly varying bathymetries. The FV scheme numerically solves the conservative
form of the equations following the median dual node-centred approach, for both the advective