data. The first source is measurement noise; in general, other sources (noise) will contribute to
measurements of the variable of interest and the direct distinction between signal and noise will
be impossible. The second problem is encountered when a measured variable is itself a random
process. In this case, only specific finite realizations of the process of interest can be measured;
variability between realizations leads to variability between parameter estimates and thus gives
rise to uncertainty.

In the past, the SI practitioner would generally implement the classical algorithms (i.e. least-
squares minimization) as an exercise in linear algebra and would usually treat the resulting
set of crisp parameter estimates as determining ‘the model’. Even if a covariance matrix were
extracted, the user would usually use this only to provide confidence intervals or ‘error bars’
on the parameters; predictions would still be made using the crisp parameters produced by the
algorithm. Such approaches do not fully accommodate the fact that a given set of measured
data, subject to the sources of uncertainty discussed above, may be consistent with a number
of different parametric models. It is now becoming clear—largely as a result of the pioneering
work of James Beck and colleagues and more recently from guidance from the machine learning
community—that a more robust approach to parameter estimation, and also model selection,
can be formulated on the basis of Bayesian principles for probability and statistics. Among the
potential advantages offered by a Bayesian formulation are the estimation procedure will return
parameter distributions rather than parameters; predictions can be made by integrating over all
parameters consistent with the data, weighted by their probabilities; evidence for a given model
structure can be computed, leading to a principled means of model selection.

Adoption of Bayesian methods first became widespread in the context of the identification
of black-box models; the methods have recently begun to occupy a central position within the