with standard metallurgical processes.

In the last 30 years, enormous efforts have been centred on the development of production
techniques capable of generating ultrafine-grained (UFG) metals with grain sizes between 100 nm
and 1m, and nanocrystalline (NC) metals with grain sizes below 100 nm [3]. In this NC regime,
the strengthening effect should be even more pronounced as far as very fine grain sizes (typically
smaller than 10 nm) are not regarded where softening may occur. For these materials, the uniform
elongation usually decreases with some exceptions [4]. The reduction of area at failure, however,
remains in many pure metals and single-phase materials relatively high. There is a vast amount
of literature dealing with the ductility of UFG and NC metals, which discusses the ductility
governing phenomena in this grain size regime and how to improve it (e.g. [5-7]). By contrast, the
fracture toughness, which determines the sensitivity of a material to crack-like defects, has only
been marginally investigated. The main reason for this circumstance lies in the fact that UFG and
NC metals and alloys cannot be easily produced in large quantities with sufficient dimensions by
most synthesis techniques, for example, inert gas condensation [8], pulsed electrodeposition [9]
or mechanical alloying [10]. Severe plastic deformation (SPD) [11] is one exception, this method
permits the production of adequate material quantities to perform fracture mechanics tests very
close to the standards. This review will focus on the fracture toughness of UFG and NC materials
generated by the SPD approach. The paper is organized as follows.

First some remarks to SPD and the specific microstructural features will be given. Then,
fracture characteristics of fec-metals will be presented. This will be followed by a look into
the fracture behaviour of some bcc-metals. Results on an SPD-processed pearlitic steel will be
presented as an example for a nanocomposite. Finally, a short summary is provided. Open
questions and perspectives for this new kind of materials will be discussed briefly.