is also striking that other leading approaches to gravitational scattering have no immediately
obvious contact with twistor geometry. As an early consequence of string theory, the Kawai- :
Lewellen—Tye (KLT) relation [38] showed how to obtain gravitational amplitudes by a ‘squaring’ =
of gauge-theoretic amplitudes. But this ‘squaring’ is expressed in standard momentum-space 3
terms. So is a more recent development, based on the Bern—Carrasco-Johansson (BCJ) relations
and colour-kinematic duality [39]. nee)

However, it is also notable that the development of the determinantal formula has tied in :
closely with insights from the twistor-string perspective. Mason & Skinner’s [34] derivation of [4
the gravitational MHV amplitude came from a twistor Lagrangian approach, and this perspective DN
has been maintained in the more recent work following up the determinantal formula. The work =
of David Skinner [40] goes back to the twistor-string picture and in particular brings in the :B
remarkable fact, which so far has not been much exploited, that twistor geometry can represent de ,
Sitter or anti-de Sitter space just as well as Minkowski space. The only modification necessary is
that the ‘infinity twistor’ becomes non-degenerate. This non-degenerate Iyg fits elegantly into
a determinantal structure. In this approach, gravity is naturally formulated within this more
general setting, and flat-space properties extracted by taking a (non-trivial) limit. Since then,
further work on ambitwistor strings by Geyer et al. [41] has forged a strong connection between
twistor geometry and the work of Cachazo et al. [42] which has given the most powerful extension
of the determinantal structure, including contact with both KLT and BCJ relations.

The questions raised by this investigation are not in fact restricted to the gravitational setting.

Even in gauge theory we are faced by the problem of how to escape the restriction to ring-ordered
partial amplitudes, so as to express the relationships between components from different ring-