
reaction into two separate streams (figure 62) which mixed on the chip just upstream of the
junction such that the solution got in contact with oil almost immediately after mixing. By using
this method, we never observed bubbles and recovered full control over formation of droplets.

(b) Frequency coding of information in Belousov—Zhabotinsky medium

The construction of logic gates with compartmentalized excitable medium described in the
previous section can be applied to BZ droplets, but the recent experiments performed within
the NEUNEU project [47] have shown that it is difficult to control a stable network with excitable
BZ droplets. On the other hand, it is relatively easy to make a structure composed of interacting
droplets containing oscillatory medium. It is also easy to fix required period of oscillations by
selecting proper concentrations of reagents. These experimental facts encouraged us to introduce
anew concept of information coding based on frequency of local oscillations. :=
Numerical simulations confirmed by experiments predict that high-frequency oscillations : Ss
can expand through the medium composed of oscillatory droplets analogously to expansion 12
of excitations in an excitable medium [56]. The phenomenon is illustrated in figure 7 where nee)
the time evolutions for different sets of droplets generated in a microfluidic reactor are shown. :
It is known that frequency of oscillations depends on the droplet size [56,57]. It seems that a ne]
few different phenomena can be responsible for this effect. In [57], the effect is explained by DN
reactions between organic radicals and oxygen diffusing from the oil phase. Our experiments [sz
on the influence of droplet size on oscillation period in separated droplets were performed for 58
different concentrations of BZ reagents and another type of oil (decane). We observed a significant .
increase in oscillation period for droplets with diameters below 1mm. The same effect was
observed in both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. In the latter case, decane was argonated for