delocalized in the original and its adjacent chain. The two-step mechanism, however, involves
an intermediate charge-transfer state, which subsequently transforms into a TT pair similar as in
polycrystalline pentacene [36]. In the DOO-PPV polymer, the fast thermalization process of the
hot singlet exciton substantially reduces the SF yield. As we can see from figure 3a, the additional
triplets generated with excitation at 3.5 eV are only approximately 40% more than those generated
through ISC which is known to be rather small in any case.

As shown in figure 3b, the EXPA() spectrum of the non-luminescent polymer PDA shows a
flat response with onset E = Eg = 2.25 eV, which is similar to DOO-PPV solution. It is tempting
therefore to assume that the triplet excitons in PDA are generated only by ISC, same as in DOO-
PPV solution. But previous time-resolved and steady-state measurements [16,23] showed that the
triplet excitons in PDA are generated within approximately 0.5 ps, which is too fast for an ISC
process. We thus believe that in fact SF dominates the triplet exciton photogeneration process in
PDA polymer chains. So how can we understand the EXPA(w) flat response here? The answer to
this puzzle is the low triplet energy in PDA. The triplet energy Ey in PDA was measured to be
Ey ~ 1.1 eV [16,23,24]. As the optical gap is Eg ~ 2.25 eV > 2Er, the intrachain SF process in PDA
is exothermic; and this explains the EXPA(@) flat response starting at E > Eg. Our conclusion is
also supported by the following MPA studies.

To try evaluating the fraction of triplet excitons generated from ISC and HE-SF processes in
DOO-PPV film, we studied the triplet MPA(B) response with pump energy E < 2Ey and E > 2Er,
as shown in figure 4a. For the MPA measurements, we adjusted the excitation intensities so that
the absorbed fluxes of pump photons at the two used wavelengths, namely 2.54 eV and 3.06 eV,
are equal to each other. For this purpose, we took into account the different photon energies
and film optical absorption at these two pump wavelengths. This manoeuvre was done in order