Here state 0 denotes the empty set where none of these components is present/active. The transformations of the system are
given by all finite sequences of transitions from /1, LO and t. Light nodes denote states where lactose is present, whereas dark
Nodes denote states without lactose. (Based on Kauffman [4]; adapted from Egri-Nagy & Nehaniv [30].)

maintenance of lactose. The clock tick is assumed to occur on a short but unspecified time scale,
where there is no change in whether lactose is present or not above a threshold value. These three
basic events thus comprise an external input alphabet to the ‘event-driven’ finite-state automaton
model, whose state-transition diagram is given in figure 2.

Natural subsystems are generally not immediately evident from either Boolean networks or
finite-state automaton descriptions. Knowing a model’s generators or transition diagram fully
describes it, but this gives almost no insight into its structure and no higher level insight into how
it functions. This is analogous to the fact that writing down a system of differential equations
does not by itself yield understanding of a system’s orbit and stability structure, local and global
dynamics, etc.

Studying the transformation semigroup of this lac operon model reveals exactly two non-
trivial natural subsystems. These structures were calculated in a few seconds using our
computational algebra system SGPDEC [16-18] together with the weak control relationship
between the two. Figure 3 shows the weak control structure of this model of the lac operon with
two permutator groups inside the semigroup of the automaton for this model. Both consist of
cyclic group Cg of order 6 acting on subsets of the state space: there is a natural subsystem (X, Cg)
with X consisting of the nine states Op, L, L ZYA, L Op, L Op ZYA, L A, L A ZYA, L A Op and
LA Op ZYA. These are Op and the states with lactose. The set X is permuted in three orbits by
the clock tick f: one orbit consists of two states L and L A Op ZYA that are transposed by f, the