— The transition region and the sub-ion range. also known historically as the ‘dissipation range’

or in some quarters of the community as the ‘dispersion’ range [9]. This is bounded at the
lower end by the ion gyro-scale p; and at the higher end by the electron gyro-scale pe.
If we ignore for the moment the dynamics parallel to the mean guide magnetic field
(see [10] in this issue), this is essentially where the kinetic physics begins and is the
main topic of this theme issue. One of the earliest presentations of the spectra of this
range was shown by Denskat ef al. [11] using Helios spacecraft observations—albeit, not
as detailed as figure 1 due to the scarcity of measurements. This study was followed
by many others over the last two decades based on better cadence measurements from
the ACE, WIND and Cluster spacecraft missions; the last one of which provides the
most detailed measurement of waveforms to date (see [7] in this issue). These studies all
showed the now well-documented fact that at scales around the typical length of an orbit
radius of protons/ions gyrating around a magnetic field (proton/ion gyro-scale), the
power-law spectra in the inertial range, mentioned above, break abruptly and at smaller
scales another steeper power-law [12-17] is found spanning about two decades in scales
(figure 1). At these scales the fluid picture given by MHD breaks down, and it is necessary
to take into account kinetic effects of the individual charged particles. The value of the
exponent of this second power-law is also variable and changes depending on plasma
conditions such as magnetic energy, anisotropy of the magnetic field fluctuations with
respect to the mean magnetic field and bulk plasma velocity, etc. [18-20]. The physics
of these scales, in this sub-ion range, is still unknown and is hotly debated. Current
studies anticipate a cross-over from the turbulence energy cascade, mentioned above, to
dissipative and/or dispersive processes via wave-particle resonances, and reconnecting
magnetic fields; with the associate transfer of energy from the electromagnetic fields to