question was under consideration by Arnold Sommerfeld’s group in Munich, where Max Laue
had been taken on as Privatdozent. According to the normally accepted story, it was during a
conversation with one of Sommerfeld’s students, Paul Ewald, that Laue had the brilliant idea that
if crystals consisted of a regular array of atoms whose spacings were in the angstrom region, it
might be possible to diffract X-rays, thus demonstrating their wave-like properties. So well and
so good.


However, the story is tempered by an assumption that was made by Laue, namely that the
incident X-rays would stimulate secondary radiation by certain atoms within the crystal and it
would be these X-rays that would be diffracted by the surrounding atoms (this was the reason
why the first crystal to be examined was that of copper sulfate, as the copper atom was known
to strongly fluoresce to produce secondary X-rays. In fact, it was a most unsuitable crystal to
begin with as its low symmetry meant that any interpretation of the results at the time would
have been unfeasible). This would mean that the diffracting X-rays would consist of a single
wavelength. Initially Sommerfeld turned down Laue’s request to use the Institute’s personnel to
carry out the experiment, and so Laue had to resort to having this done in secret (Ewald once
told me that Friedrich and Knipping actually had to steal Roentgen’s own X-ray apparatus in
order to carry out this trial experiment). Following the first successful demonstration of X-ray
diffraction, it is reported that Sommerfeld threw a celebratory party, but failed to invite Laue! Such :
was the atmosphere in the institute at that time. The successful observation of a diffraction pattern :=

appeared to support the wave theory for X-rays. However, Laue, who was later awarded the 1914 Sy
Nobel Prize in Physics, had great difficulty in explaining the pattern of spots obtained, because 2
he was inexplicably wedded to the idea of fluorescent X-rays being the cause of the diffracted aed