reconnection rate on the strength of anomalous effects. In the Sweet—Parker case, the anomalous resistivity is not turned on, :3
since the maximum current density is below the threshold of the anomalous resistivity model we used. See [33] for more detailed :3
description. :&

In a physically realistic situation, the dynamics that drive the turbulence, whatever they are,
provide a characteristic frequency and input power. Since the guide field enters only in the
combination kV, ie. through the eddy turnover rate, this implies that varying the guide field
will not change the reconnection speed. In the simulations, the periodicity of the box in the
direction of the guide field complicates the analysis (see more discussion in [122]).

The injection of energy in LV99 is assumed to happen at a given scale and the inverse cascade
is not considered in the theory. Therefore, it is not unexpected that the measured dependence on
the turbulence scale differs from the predictions. In fact, it is slightly more shallow compared with
the LV99 predictions (figure 4b).

Figure 5a shows the dependence of the reconnection rate on explicit uniform viscosity obtained
from the isothermal simulations of the magnetic reconnection in the presence of turbulence [34].
The open symbols show the reconnection rate for the laminar case when there was no turbulence
driving, whereas filled symbols correspond to the mean values of reconnection rate in the
presence of saturated turbulence. All parameters in those models were kept the same, except
the uniform viscosity, which varied from 10-4 to 10-2 in the code units. We notice the lack of
any scaling for the laminar case, which is somewhat in contradiction to the scaling Vrec « yp l/4
derived in [123]. We should note that the authors introduced the viscosity dependency using the
energy equation balance, which cannot be applied in the isothermal case. They also stress that the
proper scaling might be sensitive to the chosen boundaries, which in their numerical tests were