most electronegative of chemical elements, and the one which forms predominantly ionic bonds
to all metallic elements. A recent study has shown that the core states of Ag may be affected as
well; thus, the binding energy of Ag(3ds,2) states reaches as much as 370.1 eV for AgSO,, a Ag(II)
compound [23]; this is again the largest value found in the literature and by over 2eV more than
the corresponding value for Ag,SOu, i.e. a ‘commor’ silver(I) sulfate. To put it in another way—
the reactive hole in the valence 4d shell of silver gets easily shared with the valence and core states
of neighbouring elements and it also gets transferred to the core states of Ag.

4. Free (and) radical: a contagious disease

Since Ag(II) cation is a spin-1/2 species, it exhibits a free radical character just like the isoelectronic
Cu(II) or Ni(1) siblings. Thus, the (substantial) hole transfer from Ag(II) to the chemically bound
atoms in its first coordination sphere (discussed in the previous section) is in fact equivalent to
the (substantial) decrease of the free radical character at Ag(II) and its concomitant increase at
the ligands. In other terms: Ag(II) serves as a powerful ‘spin polarizer’ towards the surrounding
matter. The transfer of spin may be appreciable, as indicated by the quantum mechanical DFT
calculations for a number of solid-state systems. For example, the calculated magnetic moment
on Ag(II) cation in ferromagnetic Cs,AgF, slightly exceeds 0.5 1g while the corresponding value
for each F anion is 0.1 1g [24]. This means that the unpaired electron density at four F ligands
surrounding silver is 0.4 1g, comparable with that at the central Ag(II) cation. Another remarkable
example is that of antiferromagnetic AgSO, [25]; here Ag(II) preserves the absolute magnetic
moment of only ca 0.42\1g while the absolute magnetic moment on O atoms reaches up to
0.09 jxg (recall: these ‘oxide anions’ are not free but they are covalently bound to sulfur atom!).
The corresponding values for Cu(II) sulfate are: 0.80 1g (Cu) and up to 0.03 1g (O) [25]. Strong
spin polarization is seen even in such systems where the non-metal cannot attain large magnetic