of matter becomes even more important if we include consideration of the fluid state of the ae
chemical elements. It has been more than 100 years since Strutt [9] and Bender [10] pointed out the :
interesting implications of an undoubted, density-induced metal to non-metal transition for the ne]
phase behaviour of certain fluid metals at high temperatures and pressures. Strutt noted ‘Mercury DNS
vapour is an insulator, while liquid mercury is a conductor. Since the liquid and saturated a
vapour are indistinguishable above the critical temperature, one or both of these must undergo 28
a remarkable change of electrical properties as that temperature is approached’ [9]. Remarkably, .
Strutt found a reduction of close to eight orders of magnitude in electrical resistance for saturated
mercury vapour at high temperatures and pressures as compared with its resistance at room
pressure, even though experimentally he could not fully approach the critical temperature
(1751 K) and pressure (1673 bar) at that time.

Such a metal to non-metal transition at finite temperature, in fact, raises fundamental questions
of definition of both of these canonical states of matter [7]. As Landau & Zeldovich [11]
and Mott (e.g. [12]) pointed out, there is a fundamental difficulty—theoretically and indeed
experimentally—in drawing a distinction between a metal and a non-metal except at the absolute
zero of temperature [7]. We now recognize that, at the absolute zero of temperature, a metal sharply
and fundamentally differs from a non-metal with respect to its accessible spectrum of electronic
energy levels.

The ground state of a metal comprises a continuous spectrum of electronic energy states.
This explains the striking fact that in a metal the application of even the weakest electrical field
produces an electrical current due to transitions to adjacent electronic levels in the continuum
of electronic energy states. By contrast, the energy spectrum of a dielectric, i.e. a non-metal, is
characterized by the existence of a finite electronic energy gap between levels. Thus, a rigorous