others. They derived a model of a wind turbine including blade (flapwise)-tower interaction. On
comparing the results from their model with the results from a model ignoring the coupling, an
increase in the blade tip displacement up to 256% was observed. The blade-tower interaction
may also become critical for the edgewise (or side-to-side) modes, which are inherently lightly
damped [9,10]. Recognizing the importance of controlling vibrations in wind turbines, several
types of vibration controllers have been proposed by researchers in recent years.

Passive control techniques have been investigated for structural control of both onshore
and offshore wind turbines [11-13]. One of the issues associated with the use of passive
devices for wind turbine structural control is that they may become ineffective as a result
of environmental /operational changes or in the presence of parametric variations. The use of
traditional passive tuned mass dampers (TMDs) in wind turbines also needs careful design. In
fact, if the primary structure is very large (e.g. a wind turbine blade), the TMD will inevitably
have a small mass ratio. As a consequence, accurate tuning of the natural frequency of the damper
to the natural frequency of the primary structure may become difficult, and small deviations
from the optimal tuning may result in poor control performance. Further, tuning of the damper to
the rotational frequency of the turbine (which is generally associated with harmonic components
that mainly dominate the blade response) is not feasible, as it will lead to instabilities in the
TMD-blade coupled system [14].

More recently, there has been a shift in vibration control strategies from passive to active and
semi-active. Use of active strut elements based on resonant controllers [15] inspired by the concept
of TMDs has been proposed for active control of vibrations in wind turbines. Investigations on
the use of synthetic jet actuators [16], microtabs and trailing edge flaps [17,18] have also been
considered by researchers. Active control strategies have been proposed by Staino et al. [19]