relatively long intervals of time (fast changing dynamics and stability will not be an issue) and
the rate of pitching can be slow (quasi-static) to avoid dynamic stresses . An illustration of such
dual schemes (active tendon-offline pitch) follows.

(c) Active tendon control

The application of active devices as in [19] is now considered for suppression of rotor vibrations.
The active tendon control strategy works by providing a cable anchorage to the structure, with
the cable force or the displacement of the cable support controlled by an actuator. Staino et al. [19]
proposed the use of active tendon control for suppressing edgewise vibrations, but the control
system arrangement could be equally applicable for controlling flapwise displacements as well
(by rotating the cable/tendon arrangement inside the blade by 90°) as shown in the following
sections. In fact, two sets of orthogonal cable arrangements can be used to facilitate independent
control in two orthogonal directions. An appropriate control algorithm can then be used to
actuate the tendon controller. Active tendon control to mitigate flapwise blade vibrations has been
investigated in [39,40]. The hollow nature of wind turbine blades makes them suitable for the
installation of the control devices. The control devices can mitigate the dynamic response without
affecting the aerodynamic performance of the structure. In particular, for practical advantages
(e.g. ease of installation inside the blades in comparison with other power devices), the use of
active tendons is proposed as a part of the dual strategy and numerically analysed for vibration
control. The tendons are mounted ona frame supported from the nacelle (figure 3). Vector analysis
of the equilibrium of forces transmitted to the blade results in a net control force acting on the
blade tip in the flapwise direction. For the jth blade, the net force from the actuators/tendons.
is proportional to the force Tj(#) and the sine of the angle ¢o, as illustrated in figure 3. In the
mathematical framework used in this study, the active control force is modelled as an external