number of references available in the literature. The computational configuration is as follows. ne]
The two-dimensional cylinder of diameter D is centred at a distance of 5D away from the inlet, : “
OD away from the sides, and 20D away from the outlet. It is subjected to a uniform flow : =
of streamwise velocity ug, and four Reynolds numbers are considered: Rep = ugD/v = 40, 100, [8

200, 500. In all the simulations, the Courant number is fixed at CFL=0.1. The fluid mesh is
unstructured and does not change in the course of time. The typical value of the element edge
lengths at the outer boundaries is Le = D, whereas the minimum edge length /. near the cylinder
is indicated in table 1. The domain is discretized using a mixed finite-element discretization
method, where discontinuous linear polynomials are used for the velocity field (ie. P1-DG
discretization) and continuous piecewise quadratic polynomials are used for the pressure field
(i.e. P2 discretization). A well-known difficulty in representing solid structures as immersed in an
extended computation domain is the fact that sharp fluid—structure interfaces are smeared on the
computational cells. This affects the accuracy with which forces, and hence boundary conditions,
are represented on the structure surface. A related issue concerns the computation of diagnostic
variables. In particular, the integral of the pressure and viscous forces on the bluff-body surface
is not straightforward owing to the smeared representation of the structure. Despite extensive
literature on the numerical modelling of FSIs, this post-processing difficulty has been scarcely
addressed [22,23]. This study shows that one of the main differences between DB and immersed-
body type approaches is the location of the pressure extrema. In the DB approach, the maximum
pressure occurs at the cylinder boundary, which is in accordance with experimental observations.
In the IS approach, the pressure lines close in the shell as shown by figure 3. Thus, the pressure
extrema are located close to the first node of the fluid mesh where the shell concentration field
equals zero. This occurs at a distance R* ~R+ A+ 1. from the cylinder centre, where R is the
cylinder radius, A is the thickness of the shell surrounding the cylinder and /, is the edge length