
(b) Load cell measurements

The TLP was excited by waves of a single frequency for about 1 min in each test. During this time,
the responses of the various load cells reached stable and repeated peaks over time. The responses
of each load cell owing to the wave conditions listed in table 2 are analysed using the DVV method
in order to study the degree of nonlinearity of the recorded signal with the aim of characterizing
the behaviour of the system using this marker. The DVV results of the load cell measurement
analysis for different wave heights are shown in figure 3. The RMSE values gravitate to the unique
value 0.172 for all load cells when wave height is 40 mm (figure 3a). In this case, the white load cell
measurements show the greatest degree of nonlinearity in the signal (RMSEmax = 0.23) and at the
same time the greatest oscillation in the degree of nonlinearity (A = 0.108). At closer examination,
similar behaviour is observed for the red load cell. The reason is likely to be related to the fact
that both these cells are located at the bow position and are in contact with the wave before the
other cells. The results for wave height 60 mm also gravitate to a unique value of 0.195 (figure 3b).
The plot shows that the results are more scattered for the wave periods lower than 2.0s, while for
wave periods greater than 2.0s the degree of nonlinearity of the records is almost the same. For
wave height of 90mm, the plot of the RMSE for all load cells is even more scattered (figure 3c).
The averaged RMSE is 0.226 for this case. Hence, it appears that the average RMSE increases with
wave height. However, when the wave height is increased to 120 mm the average RMSE is 0.208
(figure 3d), which is less than when the height is 90 mm. Still, the plot of RMSE for wave height
20mm remains scattered. In order to examine the possible correlation between the particular
load cell location and wave height, linear basic fitting was applied to the RMSE results shown in
figure 3. The coefficients obtained are listed in table 4.
For wave height 40mm the blue, brown, white and yellow load cells have a negative slope