energies. Since the 1960s, every decade the most energetic man-made particle collisions on the : ie
Earth have had their energies increased by roughly a factor 10. During this period, as the : =
energy was increasing, various particles were discovered. E was not high enough in previous : ie

experiments in order to produce the heavier states (which have a larger m). Today, the LHC has
the highest energy of any artificial particle collider that has ever existed on the Earth. Thus,
if m is significantly higher than the E of any of the previous collisions, but still somewhat
less than the LHC design energy of 14000GeV, we would expect to be able to first produce
them at the LHC, provided that nature follows the supersymmetric model. We argued above
that the supersymmetric particles should have masses less than 1000GeV or so. This in turn
implies that the LHC, with its centre of mass energies, at 7000 GeV= —14000 GeV, should be
energetic enough to produce the supersymmetric partners. We must note that though that, in
fact, it is the point-like constituents of the protons (the quarks and gluons) that may collide
to produce supersymmetric partners, and they come with some a priori unknown fraction of
the proton’s momentum described phenomenologically by probability distribution functions
in each collision (figure 3). A combination of increasing the energy and recording more
collisions allows for the greatest chance of directly producing the supersymmetric partners.
The hope is that, after production, they can be detected and measured in the ATLAS and
CMS general purpose LHC detectors. These large machines act like three-dimensional digital
cameras, measuring the properties of the final state objects (momenta, charges, etc.) resulting
from the proton collisions. Some detective work is required to work backwards from the tracks
of the final state objects and tell what is happening directly after the moment of collision. We
must note that the collisions are quantum processes and their outcomes are inherently random.
One cannot predict, for a given collision, what will result. However, if one uses the correct
quantum theory to describe the collisions, one can predict the relative probabilities of various