to trigger on and which allow to discriminate against the overwhelming background of events 1B
with hadronic jets. Typically, these are processes involving electrons or muons, which carry a : a
large momentum transverse to the beam axis and which are well isolated from other hadronic 12
activity in the event. For example, one of the relevant processes sought at the Tevatron, for a Dy
Higgs boson with mass around 120 GeV, is the associated production of a Higgs and a Z or W : s
boson, with the Higgs decaying into a bottom—anti-bottom quark pair, and the Z or W decaying : 3
leptonically, ie. Z—> e+€~ or Wt > (#4). For larger Higgs masses around 160GeV, the most : 8

sensitive channel turned out to be Higgs production via gluon fusion (a quantum-loop-induced
process), with the Higgs boson decaying to a pair of W bosons, which in turn decay leptonically,
Le. gg > H> WW = Cty by.

Despite the fact that such leptonic channels help to reduce the backgrounds, the overall
challenge is still huge. For example, in a sample of 1 fb~! of accumulated data before any further
event selection, the fraction of ZH > e+ €-bb events compared with everything else is 5 in 10/4!
Therefore, efforts were focused on maximizing the signal acceptance and efficiency, in order not to
lose any signal event. In particular, trigger algorithms, lepton selections and b-tagging algorithms
were optimized, the last again relying on the excellent performance of silicon vertex detectors.
Furthermore, the invariant mass resolution for reconstructing the hypothetical Higgs mass from
two b-tagged jets was pushed to the ultimate performance. The best possible background
rejection was achieved by extensive use of multi-variate techniques such as neural networks
or boosted decision trees. With those machine-learning techniques the discrimination between
signal and background events could be improved, exploiting and optimally combining as much
as possible the measured event properties. Undoubtedly, the extensive experience gained with
these techniques also influenced their widespread use later at the LHC. Finally, the results from