example, consider two recent studies that model the abrupt termination of SRM [52,53]. Both : yy
studies model termination in the context of the highest representative concentration pathway 2
(RCP) from the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change, but only one models termination in aes
the context of the more optimistic RCP 2.6 scenario [52]. The highest pathway, RCP 8.5, constitutes a
a rather pessimistic view of future emissions. Abrupt termination in that context would lead to [4
large, rapid warming: although their methodologies differ slightly, each paper predicts warming : Ae
of roughly 2°C over two decades if SRM were stopped suddenly after several decades of : =
deployment [52,53]. In the context of RCP 2.6, however, abrupt termination results in less than : 5

half that rate of warming [52]. Thus, the study that focuses only on RCP 8.5 omits a crucial piece
of information: in the context of aggressive mitigation, the abrupt termination of SRM poses a far
less serious problem than it does under a high-emissions scenario. Conversely, a study that only
considered RCP 2.6 would omit the even more important fact that abrupt termination would be
catastrophic under a high-emissions scenario. Similarly, studies that focus only ona single method
of climate engineering will omit information about alternative methods; studies that focus only
one level of climate engineering (e.g. the level needed to offset all anthropogenic warming) will
omit information about alternative levels (e.g. the level needed to partially offset additional
warming) and so on. It is impossible, of course, to consider all alternatives in a single study. Large
coordinated research projects, such as GeoMIP [54], are helping to fill this gap, and researchers
can always highlight the limitations of their studies by explaining available alternatives and why
those alternatives might give different results.

The second thing that researchers can do is to be mindful of messaging. That is, researchers
can think carefully about how various audiences will understand and react not just to what
information the researchers convey, but also to how they convey it. Researchers studying