by a dominant scale over tens to hundreds of metres [3,4]. Yet models of self-organization have
shown that plant-plant interactions in environments deprived of resource (water and nutrients)
can indeed result in such landscape-scale patterns. The patterns that have so far received
most attention display striking spatial alternation of vegetation and bare soil and a dominant
wavelength can be detected [3-8]. Observed morphologies are made of bands, spots, labyrinths
or gaps. Such patterns show a worldwide distribution [9] and are typically observed under arid
or semiarid climates at the fringes of deserts, which suggest an analogy with phase transition
between continuous vegetation cover (e.g. savannah) and desert. Broad scale monitoring of such
systems thanks to remote sensing has moreover shown that the periodic patterns do react to the
variation of rainfall over decades in a way which qualitatively accords with predictions of the
diverse self-organization models which have been proposed [3,4]. This provides ample evidence
that those systems are not dependent on inherited geological or soil properties but are instead
dynamical and react to ongoing rainfall variation, a fact that corroborates the hypothesis of
self-organization under resource limitation.

However, biphasic mosaics associating vegetation and bare ground are a very widespread
feature of vegetation cover in drylands [10-12], which is far more ubiquitous than the specific
subclass of spatially periodic patterns. The processes from which such mosaics originate and
perpetuate are qualitatively well understood and described by many authors: vegetation traps
nutrients and helps water infiltrate into the topsoil thereby creating ‘fertile islands’ within a
resource deprived area [11-13]. Conversely, the crusted surface of bare areas prevents water
from infiltrating, while nutrients, soil particles and plant propagules are moved along with
water or wind towards vegetated places. Resource concentration also fosters the development
of soil fauna, which contributes to the overall biological activity observed in vegetation patches
[12]. In addition, the overall lack of resources leads plants growing in fertile patches to extend