is a translational neutral mode of the operator L, Ly =0, while yt = wi , wh , wt )T is the
corresponding solution of the homogeneous adjoint problem L'y* = 0. The scalar product (-) is
defined as ( vy}, Ve) = sre v} Wx dx dy. To estimate the coefficients a and b, we have calculated the
function yt numerically using the relaxation method in two transverse dimensions, (x,y). The
results of these calculations are shown in figure 3 together with the axially symmetric profile Eg
of the stationary LS. It can be seen from this figure that similar to the neutral mode y defined by
(4.6) the neutral mode y* of the adjoint operator L* is an even function of the coordinate y and an
odd function of the coordinate x, which is parallel to the LS direction of motion.

The dependence of the critical feedback rate n corresponding to the drift instability threshold
defined by equation (4.4) on the feedback phase ¢ and carrier relaxation rate y is illustrated by
figure 4. In this figure, the curves labelled by different numbers correspond to different values
of y. Considering the fact that the feedback in equation (3.1) is introduced with the minus sign,
we see that the drift instability takes place only for those feedback phases when the interference
between the cavity field and the feedback field is destructive, i.e. when the cos function in the
denominator of the right-hand side of equation (4.4) is positive. On the contrary, when this
interference is constructive the feedback has a stabilizing effect on the LS. Furthermore, the
slower the carrier relaxation rate, the higher the drift instability threshold. Since the stationary LS
solution does not depend on the carrier relaxation rate y, the coefficients a and b in the threshold
condition (4.4) are also independent of y. Therefore, (4.4) gives an explicit dependence of the
threshold feedback rate on the carrier relaxation rate. In particular, in the limit of very fast carrier
response, y > 1, and zero feedback phase, gy = 0, we recover from (4.4) the threshold condition
nt =1 which was obtained earlier for the LS drift instability induced by a delayed feedback in
the real Swift-Hohenberg equation [33]. Note that at y > oo, a 40, and g = — arctana the critical
feedback rate appears to be smaller than that obtained for the real Swift-Hohenberg equation,