cores is discussed by Ding et al. [215]. A review on localized modes in dissipative lattice media is
presented by Malomed & Mihalache [216]. Another review on the dynamics of particles, waves
as well as spatial and temporal LSs in cavities formed by oscillating mirrors is contributed by
Rosanov et al. [217]. Various collisions of two-dimensional LSs are investigated and a possibility
of breather formation as a result of collision is presented. The contribution by de Valcarcel
et al. [218] presents a review on rocking phenomenon in various spatially extended systems
and discusses their applications in optics. A Nagumo-Kuramoto model exhibiting a localized
spatio-temporal chaotic type of behaviour often called chaoticon is discussed by Verschueren et al.
[219]. The mechanism responsible for the appearance of such chaotic regime is attributed to front
interactions. Tesio et al. [220] discuss the self-organization phenomenon in cold atomic gases that
manifests itself as a spontaneous emergence of long-range spatial order from fluctuations in the
transverse plane. Using the Kuramoto model, this process is interpreted as a synchronization
transition in a fully connected network of fictitious oscillators. In nonlinear fibre optics, a vector
model describing an erbium doped mode-locked fibre laser with carbon nanotube saturable
absorber is investigated by Sergeyev [221]. In particular, the author discusses the formation of a
new family of vector dissipative solitons with fast and slowly evolving polarization states in this :
system. Bahloul et al. [222] perform analytical and numerical studies of the combined influence of a
third- and fourth-order dispersion on the dynamics of TLSs in a PCF cavity. This analysis reveals .
the existence of moving TLSs of light.

Chabchoub ef al. [223] provide for the first time evidence of LSs in the form of Kuznetsov-Ma
soliton and Akhmediev breather in a water wave flume. Their analytical study based on nonlinear
Schrédinger equation agrees with the experimental observations. The control of breathing LSs
by time-delayed optical feedback in a three-component reaction-diffusion system is investigated
theoretically by Gurevich [224]. It is shown that varying the delay parameters can lead either