
a reliable estimate of a long-term trend will be significantly longer than if all variability apart 3
from the trend is at periods shorter than a year. Hughes & Williams [8] recently applied spectral : a
techniques to the altimetric time series to investigate the variability of the local observations, ig
primarily as a tool to identify different dynamical processes. As part of that assessment, it was : s
also possible to estimate the time span needed to measure a long-term trend with a 1 mm per year 1B

precision. For the global average, the required time span was found to be slightly more than 2
years, with 12 years being long enough to reduce the statistical error down to 0.1mm per year.
However, at individual locations in the ocean the 1 mm per year-level time span can range from 5
to 101 years. The longest time is associated with eddy variability in the Kuroshio extension off the
east coast of Japan. This result highlights both the power of averaging to decrease the uncertainty
in estimates of the trend as well as the fact that global maps of trends need to be viewed with : =
these spatially varying uncertainties in mind. :3
While the variability in the time series places certain limits on our ability to make statements
about the long-term trends, systematic factors also contribute to our uncertainty in the estimates eal
of sea-level change. These systematic factors particularly highlight the need for simultaneous :
observations by other systems, as well as the need for a stable realization of the reference system [4
for the measurements. aw
One important aspect of the altimetry is the need to correct for a variety of factors, including aes)
sea-state bias and wet tropospheric delay. These corrections vary between each satellite mission, aes)
must be independently evaluated and led to the requirement that the altimetry missions must ,
overlap [68]. An important final check that errors in the corrections do not introduce errors into
the altimetric long-term trend is to compare the altimeter time series with those from a selection of
tide gauges distributed throughout the world [69]. In fact, the frequently reported uncertainty of