In this work, we adopt a different perspective. We treat the cardiac and respiratory functions
as being oscillatory and interacting [6], and we consider the coupling to be enabled by two
distinct mechanisms. The first is via the vasculature and the flow of blood through the system of
closed tubes that connects the heart and the lungs. The second coupling occurs via the neuronal
control that provides information transmission between all of the systems involved, i.e. the
heart, lungs and vasculature. The oscillatory processes associated with the coupling mechanisms
have been identified in earlier studies, and are related to endothelial [7-10], neurogenic [9,11,12]
and myogenic [13,14] activity. We measure the oscillatory functions of heart and respiration,
and then apply methods drawn from nonlinear science to detect their instantaneous phases and
frequencies. Once these have been established, we study the interaction between heart and
respiration, treating them as self-sustained nonlinear oscillators and investigating their mutual
coordination [15-17] or synchronization [18-26], coherence [27-32] and direction of coupling
[33-36], allowing for the fact that the characteristic frequencies, couplings and other interacting
characteristics vary in time [37,38]. We report below an analysis of the results obtained from a
study of 189 (99 male, 90 female) healthy subjects aged 16-90, enabling us to characterize the
changes with age that occur in the cardiorespiratory interaction.

In §2, we present the methods of phase and frequency extraction used in the study, and we
show that the synchrosqueezed wavelet transform (SWT) [39] offers significant advantages. In
§3, we apply wavelet phase coherence (WPC) to investigate the components modulating the
heart and respiratory rates. We formulate a model to describe cardiorespiratory interactions in
§4. In §5, we extract the time-varying parameters of the model using recently developed methods
based on Bayesian inference, and we investigate the age dependence of the derived measures: the
directionality of coupling, synchronization and the overall coupling function. Finally, in §6, we
summarize and draw conclusions. Details of subjects, measurements, signal pre-processing and