follows [3-5]: calling © the covariance matrix, and X’ a new covariance matrix preserving only :=
the diagonal elements, the log-ratio ii =log(|X’|/|2|) measures the increased uncertainty one =
gets when neglecting the instantaneous interactions, interpreted as the value of instantaneous 13
causality between the variables. :

In the proposed approach, a diagonal residuals covariance Z is obtained introducing a zero lag : Ss
matrix Ag in the model, supposed to correspond to an acyclic structure. To quantify instantaneous Dw
causality, we define a disconnected model in which the instantaneous coupling between variables :
i and j is cut, ie. (Ao’)ij = (Ao! )ji =0. This choice introduces non-zero elements in the residuals [8
covariance matrix, (2”);j =(2");i #0, and limits us from using (2.9) to solve the disconnected [3
model. As done before, we neglect the newly introduced off-diagonal elements and solve the
model using (2.9) anyway, using (2.7) to evaluate the covariance matrix and then discarding
the off-diagonal elements. This procedure is justified by the fact that, in this way, we can
quantify instantaneous causality as the error in prediction we commit when neglecting one of
the instantaneous couplings. Note that our procedure can be carried out in multivariate systems
and the corresponding instantaneous causality measure can be conditioned on the other variables
in the system. We denote the time domain instantaneous causality measure we get from (2.4)
as Fx;-xjlxi,1 and the frequency domain one as f;;.x; xis) (w). Note that this measure is symmetrical,
i.e. the instantaneous causality from i to j is exactly equal to the instantaneous causality from j to
i. Moreover, differently from other instantaneous causality measures in the spectral domain [16],
our decomposition is non-negative as required. The spectrum of our definition of instantaneous
causality can be proven to be flat, as has been demonstrated in [12].

(d) Granger causality including instantaneous effects (iGC)
