responsible for generation of extreme events of energy dissipation (and hence strain rate),
identified by © =25;Sij, where Sj is the strain-rate tensor. We have investigated the three
nonlinear processes involved in the transport equation for X (see equation (3.2)), viz., the strain
self-amplification, vortex stretching and strain-pressure Hessian correlation, by analysing their
statistics conditioned on Y. We find that the overall amplification of strain comes from the strain-
self amplification term only, whereas the other two terms act to deplete intense strain events.
Remarkably, the dependence of various conditional averages on ¥ follows a simple dimensional
consideration.

The three mechanisms are further analysed in the eigenbasis of strain tensor, defined by its
eigenvalues 4; and eigenvectors e; (for i=1,2,3), revealing a more complex picture. Since 41
is always positive and Az is positive on average, it follows that the self-amplification term in
fact leads to depletion for these eigenvalues, whereas the vortex stretching and pressure Hessian
terms lead to amplification. Surprisingly, the self-amplification and vortex stretching terms cancel
each other and the net amplification is solely provided by the pressure Hessian term. By contrast,
the behaviour of all these terms for the third eigenvalue (which is always negative) is similar to
that of total strain, revealing that extreme events of strain result from strong self-compressive
action. Our results are consistent with the notion that regions of intense strain are arranged
in sheet-like structures, in the vicinity of, but never colocated with regions of tube-like intense
vorticity [5,20,21,23]. In this context, analysing the non-local relation between strain and vorticity
would be crucial in understanding their amplification [14,15,17] and could also shed light on the
long-standing mystery of why vorticity is more intermittent than strain.

Finally, we note that the conditional statistics investigated in this work have very simple
power-law dependencies on Y (in the region ©/(X) > 1), as deducible from an elementary