of a severe course of a disease that widely correlates with age. The varying severity of the disease
translates into a heterogeneous behavioural reaction. To be more precise, the group at lower risk
drives the infections as their adoption of prophylaxis is not as widespread and occurs later. The
changing difference in prophylaxis between the high- and low-risk group leads to a temporal
variation of the case distribution. Furthermore, as the low-risk group drives the infections towards
their peak, maximal prevalence is reached with a delay among the risk group. Both phenomena
match the observations from the data.

There is an interest in this study from a theoretical point of view, since a minimal model is able
to exhibit the same phenomenology as the reported data. More importantly, the study highlights
various points relevant for the public health policies of the pandemic. Our results indicate that
an initial low fraction of infections among the risk group can lead to an underestimation of the
potential future stress on the health care system. In fact, we observed such an underestimation
during the summer months of 2020. In this period, the reported cases were mainly among younger
people, leading to a reduced stress on health care systems. Consequently, the public discourse
advocated tolerating higher prevalence levels, i.e. restoring social fabric while coexisting with
virus transmission. However, along with seasonal effects, the resulting behavioural relaxation led
to an increase in prevalence among the at-risk group, resulting in the emergence of severe second
waves in several countries around the world.

There are several limitations to this study. We did not include the impact of seasonal effects
and government policies on the behavioural response to the epidemic. Such an approach would
require more detailed, large-scale behavioural data and a deeper understanding of human
behaviour as well as the specifities of the virus. Nevertheless, already minimal data, such as
age-stratified case numbers, allowed us to observe regularities in the infections patterns. In