representation of the ITCZ location in the PI control simulation is a prerequisite to properly trigger
the vegetation feedback. Large-scale circulation and the interhemispheric contrast seem to be key
factors. Local recycling and the coupling between the land surface and the atmospheric boundary
layer is also an important factor in triggering precipitation [55]. This relationship and how it is
represented in climate models also needs further attention before we can fully assess the role of
the vegetation feedback in West Africa during the Holocene.

5. Conclusion

The comparison of the SW cloud and vegetation feedbacks across PMIP simulations for the LGM
and the MH clearly shows that the SW cloud feedback is one of the major sources of uncertainty
between model results. This factor was fully discussed by Yoshimori et al. [11] for the LGM,
together with the fact that half of the models produce a negative feedback at the LGM, whereas
it is a positive feedback for future climate [4,6]. Here we show that the different model properties
for the LGM SW cloud feedback also hold for the MH when analysing the annual mean cycle
of this feedback at the scale of the NH. In most models the SW cloud feedback counteracts the
effect of the ice-sheet forcing at the LGM and of the insolation forcing at the MH. Two points need
further investigation. First, the sign of the SW cloud radiative feedback for these two climates is
opposite (except for the IPSL-CM5A-LR model) to the one it has for all these models for future
climate. The question is therefore to determine if this is due to the nature of the forcing. Indeed for
LGM ice-sheet and MH, the forcing is a shortwave forcing, whereas for future climate the forcing
affects the LW radiation. This different forcing triggers different processes, which might be the
reason for the difference in the sign of the SW cloud feedback between those two climates. The
magnitude of the forcing (whatever its sign) remains quite similar between the LGM and future
climate (see fig. 5.5 in [4]). This suggests that model differences in the magnitude and sign of the