for the sake of example, its typical duration is 200-500 ms, the typical mouth opening of male
subjects is approximately 4cm?, and the resulting Reynolds number is about 10* [2,3] and
even larger for a sneeze. The resulting flow field is thus fully turbulent. Very recently [4-6],
the key role of turbulence in dictating the fate of virus-containing droplets in violent human
expulsions has been elucidated. More specifically, it turns out that turbulence plays a crucial
role in determining droplets evaporation time, resulting in errors up to 100% when the turbulent
fluctuations are filtered or completely averaged out [4]. Because of the fact that the issue on the
droplet evaporation time is crucial to establish whether viruses lingering on dry nuclei upon
droplet evaporation retain their full potential of infection [5], turbulence in a puff needs to be
fully understood and characterized in a statistical sense.

As a matter of fact, a consistent statistical theory is currently not available for puff turbulence.
The reason is probably due to the fact that the system at hand does not possess all desirable
symmetries characterizing the classical ideal turbulence setting. Current knowledge of puff
turbulence is confined to the pioneering work by Kovasznay et al. [7] only dealing with bulk
quantities involved in the puff dynamics: the puff bulk translational velocity and the average
puff radius.

A first attempt to characterize from a statistical point of view the small-scale structure of
turbulent fluctuations of both velocity and temperature, but neglecting the two-phase nature of
the problem, is reported in [8] where an adiabatic generalization of the Kolmogorov-Obukhov
picture of steady Navier-Stokes turbulence [9,10] has been presented in two relevant cases: one
in which the buoyancy of the puff is negligible and the opposite situation where buoyancy
dominates the puff dynamics. It is shown that the phenomenological theory gives sense to
the concept of inertial range, energy flux and scaling behaviours, in space and time, of proper