At high temperatures, the magnetization curves, as expected, have an equilibrium shape: they a)
are exactly described by formulae (2.12)-(2.14). Evidently, this is due to the fact that foro ~1
all relaxation times are of the order 19 (figure 5a), and, therefore, in the considered frequency
range wty <1 these relaxation times are much shorter than the period 27/w of the exciting field.
Notably, the spin-flop transition under intense thermal fluctuations is completely smeared.
A decrease of temperature leads to the so-called dynamic magnetic hysteresis: at o = 10 and
20, the magnetization curves turn into loops, provided the particle has a spontaneous magnetic
moment, see lines for 6 4 0. Obviously, in the frequency range under consideration, this effect is
associated exclusively with the interwell relaxation mode. The point is that all the other relaxation
times of the spectrum are of the order of 1, irrespective of temperature and field strength;
therefore, the corresponding modes do not play any significant role in the magnetic response at
wt <1. The behaviour of interwell relaxation time 11, as shown above, is qualitatively different.
The exponential growth of 11(0,q) with the increase of o leads to the fact that this time in a
certain range of values q becomes much greater than the period of the field. In this case, the
system has no time to relax to an equilibrium state, and in result the relationship between the
average magnetization m and the field q is no longer single-valued: dynamic hysteresis arises.
In the frequency range wt) <1, a necessary condition for that effect is the change of m when
the AFM vector switches between two energy wells. At 6 =0, it does not hold, that is why the
magnetization curves demonstrate not hysteresis. However, at higher frequencies, when not only
the interwell but also other relaxation modes contribute to the magnetic response, hysteresis can
be observed even at 8 = 0.
In qualitative agreement with the experimental data [24], an increase of the parameter o
(cooling down of the system) leads to the growth of the half-width q, of the hysteresis loop. This
quantity, which is appropriate to call the dynamic coercivity, can be estimated setting wt) (0, qc) ~
1 (it means that increase of frequency results in enhancement of qc) or qc may be calculated exactly