geometric interpretation of both the dark energy and DM sectors of this stringy Universe. At early
stages, the dark energy sector of this Universe assumes an RVM form, with the dominant terms
scaling like H*, with H the corresponding Hubble parameter, which are due to condensates of
the gravitational anomalies due to primordial GW. Such terms lead to inflation of RVM type,
without external inflatons. The GW may originate in a pre-RVM-inflationary epoch. During this
inflation, there is an undiluted KR axion background, which violates spontaneously Lorentz and
CPT symmetries (LV & CPTV), and survives the post inflationary era, leading to matter-antimatter
asymmetries during the radiation epoch. The KR axion can acquire a non-trivial mass through
QCD instanton effects, during the QCD epoch, thus playing the role of a DM component.

There are several aspects of this work that we would like to pursue further. First, we would
like to see if the presence of the LV and CPTV KR axion background leaves detectable imprints
in the CMB spectrum. Second, given the fact that the coefficient of the H? term in the RVM-
like energy density during inflation is negative, due to the gravitational anomalies, it would be
interesting to see if one could somehow find evidence for it in the early Universe data. This is not
an easy task, given that the exit from inflation in our model involves a phase transition. Another
phenomenologically interesting avenue for research is the incorporation of the other axions that
arise after compactification in phenomenologically realistic string models, which lead to a rich
phenomenology [97,98]. Big Bang nucleosynthesis constraints should also be carefully taken
into account in the post-inflationary era of the model. We also mention that, so far, there is no

Such one-loop quantum-gravity corrections, and also those of the form H*In(«?H?)[43,81], are subdominant compared to the
anomaly-induced H! term in (3.16), for «|£9| < 1, and thus our conclusions on RVM inflation are not affected.

