fields obtained by DNS, and applied the low-pressure method [18,24,25] to the scale-decomposed
fields so that we can objectively identify the skeletal structures of coherent tubular vortices at each
scale. The identified hierarchy (figure 1) of vortex axes is self-similar. To evaluate the dimension of
the hierarchy, we have estimated the total length L(k,) of the vortex axes in the wavenumber band
[k-/2,kc). As shown in figure 2, L(kc) obeys the power law (3.1), even without time averaging, in
a significantly wide range of k,. More precisely, this power law holds in the wavenumber range
(3.2); namely, not only the T range (within the inertial range) but also a lower part of the B range
(within the dissipation range), where the energy spectrum is accompanied by a bump. See figure 3
for the definitions of the T and B ranges. This result implies that there exists the energy cascade
process due to vortex stretching even in the dissipation range, though the vorticity is attenuated


by the viscosity in the range. In fact, this result is also consistent with the observation (fig. 1c of
[22]) of the energy transfer in the B range. In other words, the number of child vortices in the
cascading process is constant irrespective of the scale in the range (3.2). We have also shown
that L is robust and independent of Reynolds number and forcing (figure 2), which implies
the universality of turbulence. It is particularly important for the mathematical formulation of
the energy cascade that L is time independent (figure 4) even when the kinetic energy and its
dissipation rate significantly fluctuate. This result supports the assumption in [22]; see ยง4a. The
results in figure 2 also show that the intermittency of the energy dissipation rate is not due to the
increase of volume fraction of smaller scale vortices but due to the accumulation of the energy flux
in smaller scales; see ยง4b. In other words, we need to take into account not only the total length
of tubular vortices but also the vortex intensity in order to evaluate the effect of the intermittency.
Therefore, we may further improve our mathematical formulation of the energy cascade [22], by
taking into account the multifractal nature (ยง4c), to describe the deviation of the energy spectrum