
Figure 7. (a—c) Normalized water fluctuation autocorrelation function Csys(t) in the silica (a), alumina (b) and MgO (c) pores.
The results are obtained from systems containing only water. (d—f) Diffusion profiles for methane across the hydrated silica (d),
alumina (e) and MgO (f) pores. The results were obtained from the systems containing water fully occupying the pores and one
methane molecule constrained at the centre of the simulation box in the YZ plane while it moves along the X-direction. The
region between two dashed lines represents the inner hydrated pore. (Online version in colour.)

4. Conclusion

We employed MD simulations to study the behaviour of methane dissolved in water confined
within silica, alumina and MgO pores with 1 nm width. The methane solubility in confined water
in the silica pore is much higher than that found in the two other pores at comparable T and P.
This is due to the fact that the hydrated silica pore is less ‘hydrophilic’ than the other two pores
considered. Despite the fact that the hydrated alumina pore is slightly more hydrophilic than
the hydrated MgO pore, methane solubility in water confined in the alumina pore is slightly
larger than that obtained in the MgO pore. This difference is probably due to higher tangential
pressure expected in the alumina pore. Analysis of water fluctuation autocorrelation functions
and local diffusion coefficients of methane across the hydrated pores shows a direct proportional
coupling between methane and water dynamics. These results suggest that the properties of
confined water are dictating both structural and dynamical behaviour of methane dissolved in the
hydrated pores. Implications in the diffusion of fluids in the subsurface should be investigated in
the framework of hydraulic fracturing, shale gas and perhaps also carbon sequestration.

Authors’ contributions. A.P. and A.S. conceived and designed the research; A.P. acquired the data; A.P., D.E.C. and
AS. analysed and interpreted the data; A.P. drafted the manuscript; D.E.C. revised it critically; A.P., D.E.C.