
(b) Using wealth as the input =

Henceforth, we adopt a different viewpoint, where each agent is endowed with their own wealth :3
w; as the only input at each time step. An arbitrary sub-system composed of 10% agents was : Pe
trained. This fraction was chosen so that the size of the rational group was similar to that of 8
the group of agents with re (r* — 0.05, 7* + 0.05), and then their performances could be fairly eel
compared later on. Rational agents were given neural networks with a single hidden layer with a)
three neurons, and the systems were trained for 10° generations. :8
We plot in figure 8 the density maps after reaching convergence and found that the solution :s
consisted in setting the risk to zero for low wealth values (i.e. not participating in any al
transactions), and then abruptly increasing it to a fixed value for high wealth values. This is due
to the fact that the agents find it more convenient to simply wait and receive their share of the
total collected tax when they belong to the fraction p of the poorest individuals. We compare the
solutions obtained for A = 0.28 and different values of p, and found that agents set their risk to a
higher value for high wealth values as p decreases. It is also of interest to mention that for p > 0.7
only the trivial solution of setting r = 0 for any w was found, corresponding to never participating
in any transaction.
It is relevant to know how successful is the solution found by the trained agents. For this
purpose, we compare in figure 9 the average wealth obtained at every time-step for both, the
trained and the untrained groups and for two distinct cases: in figure 9a, the irrational agents
behave randomly, changing their risk at every time-step, according to the model proposed in [16].
In figure 9b, the irrational group comprises agents with fixed risks that were randomly chosen
at the start of the simulation, as proposed in [13]. The wealth accumulated by these groups,
illustrated by the lower curves in figure 9, presents a negligible difference between both models.