the instanton will be compact and located near the MECP, which can itself be found with standard
methods [84-90]. A good initial guess for the value of rt is given by the classical, short-time limit
of the action (see discussion above equation (2.21)) [41]. It is therefore relatively easy to optimize
an instanton at high temperature, which can then serve as a starting point to slowly cool down
the system. This process is accompanied by the gradual expansion of the instanton.

In contrast to the normal regime, in the inverted regime of an exoergic reaction, the ring-
polymer instanton corresponds to a saddle point of index Npf + 1.3 In the inverted regime, we
can also employ the half ring-polymer approach (equation (3.8)), though here the index of the
required saddle point changes to Npf/2 +1. From figure 2, it can be seen how the half ring
polymer emerges from the full ring in a configuration typically assumed in the inverted regime.

Due to the fact that in the inverted regime one is no longer seeking a single-index saddle point,
different optimization algorithms are required. Conveniently, we can make use of algorithms
originally developed for locating higher-index saddle points in Lennard-Jones clusters [91-93].
These algorithms are based on eigenvector following, where uphill steps are taken in the direction
of the eigenvectors corresponding to the lowest Npf/2 + 1 eigenvalues and downhill steps are
taken in the remaining degrees of freedom. Hence, even if the initial guess does not have the
required number of negative eigenvalues, the eigenvector-following algorithm will guide us
towards the stationary point of the correct index. In principle, it is also possible to employ
standard Newton-Raphson optimizers. These, however, require an initial guess with the precisely
right index, since the algorithm cannot change the signs of eigenvalues.

As in conventional geometry optimization, it is often helpful to project out global rotations
and translations. This can be done with standard methods [93], treating the ring polymer as a