hopping [21] or using the exact factorization approach [22]. Regions containing CIs are known
to exhibit strong quantum effects due to the strong electron-nuclear couplings, for instance the
aforementioned GP-induced interference [11,18,19]. A full quantum approach is then necessary
to properly account for these quantum effects. Usual approaches for such simulations use a
multi-configuration expansion in combination with multi-dimensional grids (see for example the
multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method [23,24]). Some drawback of these methods
are the necessity of generating a model Hamiltonian beforehand, and the fact that grid-based
methods scale exponentially with the number of dimensions. Both limitations can be addressed
using another common representation of the nuclear wavepackets employing an expansion
in terms of time-dependent Gaussian functions [25-33]. This representation has the strong
advantage that it avoids evaluation of the Hamiltonian integrals over multi-dimensional grid
by using Gaussian integration when possible, or by using a local approximation motivated by the
fact that Gaussian functions have a limited spatial extension. This approach is particularly useful
for on-the-fly simulation of molecular systems for which the potential energy surfaces are not
known analytically (see for instance the integrals’ approximations described in [34-36]). However,
a severe drawback of the Gaussian expansion is that Gaussian functions are not double-valued
functions. A general approach to solve this difficulty is to remove the GP from the adiabatic states
by using an extra phase factor [6]. Nevertheless, choosing the right phase factor requires prior
knowledge of the CIs locations. However, their locations are generally not known in on-the-fly
simulations of real molecular systems. Thus, it is not always possible to cancel the GP of the
adiabatic states [37]. Another drawback comes from the fact that the diagonal elements of the
non-adiabatic coupling matrix, also known as diagonal Born—Oppenheimer corrections (DBOCs),
are not often calculated in electronic structure packages and are furthermore non-integrable
unless special basis functions are utilized [38,39]. Thus, DBOCs are also often overlooked. Despite
these difficulties, time-dependent Gaussian functions are very often employed in non-adiabatic