

to the observable(s) chosen). If these individual quantum systems are brought into mutual
interaction at the quantum level (i.e. shielded from interactions with a macroscopic device),
they will lose their independence: the ensemble must be treated as a single whole, described
by just one overall state, no matter where its component parts are taken after the interaction.
These components are then said to be entangled. The actual results of measurements on entangled
components (unpredictable individually, except statistically) will be correlated, no matter how
far away in space and time they are located from each other (there is no equivalent example of
this in classical physics). It turns out that not just man-made laboratory measurements but any
interaction with the natural macroscopic environment will break up the state of an ensemble of
entangled quantum systems into independent, ultimately collapsed states of its components. This
process is called decoherence (e.g. [13]). As a matter of fact, it is impossible to completely shield a
quantum system from unpredictable macroscopic influences of the environment, and superposed
states are difficult to maintain in the laboratory. =
A measurement apparatus is a human-built artefact in which a quantum system is deliberately :
made to interact with a macroscopic device. This device is constructed in such a way that in
the special case when the quantum system is in an eigenstate of the observable which the nee)
apparatus is supposed to measure, the initial perturbation propagates through the instrument :
and is amplified to give an observable classical, macroscopic effect that depends on the initial a]
eigenstate (e.g. the particular position of a pointer). When the quantum system to be measured DNS
is now in a superposed state, it gets entangled with the ‘quantum end’ of the apparatus—but area
as subsequent interactions propagate through the instrument, inevitable entanglement with the eal
environment will eventually cause the single quantum state of the total system (measured system .
plus instrument) to break up into mutually correlated basis states: (i) the instrument signals a