or the other. The flow rate achieved using this motor was equal to 711s~!. Comparatively, : <
the motor used for the valves was the FIT0484 (DFRobot, Shanghai, China). Similarly to the [3
other motor, it was driven using an external 12 V power supply but had a rotation speed of :s
105 r.p.m. for a 150 gear reduction ratio. Comparatively to the pump housing, the camshaft :8
used for the valve cannot do a full rotation in the housing. Instead, it can only move 90° :s
in one direction or another. This gives the opportunity to compress the tubing one way and 1B

release it in the other, creating a valve. In order to detect the valve state (open or close), we
start the motor in one direction and measure the change in the magnetic encoder until the
movement stops due to resistance of the camshaft on the housing of the valve. To close the
valve, the direction of the motor is reversed and the magnetic encoder is used in the same way
to detect when the tube is compressed to the point of stopping the movement of the motor.
One problem that can arise is the fact that the tubing can be damaged over time by repeatedly
compressing it this way. One way to avoid this problem is by using a motor with less torque
(a lower gear reduction ratio value) or to replace the magnetic encoder with a potentiometer
which could be used to detect the position of the valve more accurately and stop the movement
before the compression of the tubing gets too high. Since the instrument operates using two valves
for the air and sample intake, both motors are coupled together but in opposite behaviour so that
one is always in the closed position when the other is in the open position which reduces the
possibility of having both valves open or closed at the same time.

As mentioned previously, the microfluidic layout involves one pump for the injection (or
withdrawal) and the flow rate control as well as two valves that are used to select one input
at a time to alternate between the sample or air [54,55]. The air is used to push the liquid in the
tubing as well as mixing the sample in the measurement vial before the data acquisition. The