nanoparticles as a function of the increasing concentration of NaCl in the sample measured by
our instrument is decreasing at a similar rate as the measurements done with the commercial
instrument. Initially, the absorbance intensities were normalized for both instruments. As the
concentration increases, the intensity measured remains similar (+1.4%) for both instruments
until a concentration of 206.4\1M is reached. At that point, the absorbance intensity measured
by the commercial instrument starts to decrease at a slightly higher rate than what is measured
by the prototype. The highest variation between both instruments was measured at 309.6 1M
with a difference of ~ 7.9%. The average difference between the two instruments is © 2.2% with
a standard deviation of 3.0%. The results are promising for the future experiments as they show
that the results obtained from the instrument's prototype are similar to the results obtained from
the commercial instrument.

The factor that could influence the measurement of the peak’s wavelengths is the fact that
the raw data from the prototype needed to have a smoothing applied to them to filter the
noise over the curve where the data from the commercial instrument were already smoothed.
It means that, before smoothing, the signal-to-noise ratio of the prototype is smaller than that of
the commercial instrument's direct output. However, the number of data points of the prototype


was higher than those of the commercial instrument over the bandwidth of interest resulting
from the higher resolution of the prototype versus the commercial instrument. Another factor
that could contribute to the variation is the Bayer filter (for the colour rendering of the sensor).
Since the filter only has tree colour pixels (red, green and blue), each rendered colour is a
combination of the intensity measured from a number of pixels of different colour. Even though
the prototype was calibrated using a commercial calibration lamp, it does not give information