observable in question (the observable itself also being defined by the instrument!%). The set of
probabilities of occurrence of eigenvalues is what characterizes the common state of each quantum
system at the time of measurement (Born’s rule). While it is impossible to predict the outcome of
one measurement, the set of probabilities of obtaining the eigenvalues in a given measurement
procedure is deterministic, depending only on preparation and history of the quantum system.
This is not all: when a single quantum system is measured and one of the possible eigenvalues
of the corresponding observable is obtained, the quantum system emerges in a special state such
that repeated measurements of the same kind thereafter will always yield the same eigenvalue.
Such a state is therefore called an eigenstate (also ‘basis state’), and one says that the initial state
of the quantum system has collapsed into, or been reduced to, an eigenstate as the result of the
first intervention.

These experimental facts allow the development of linear algebra algorithms in which the state
of a quantum system is represented by a (unit) vector in a (complex) Hilbert space; interactions,
measurements and transformations are represented by specific operators. The axes represent
eigenstates or basis states, and the squares of the projections of the state vector onto the axes
represent the probabilities of occurrence of the corresponding eigenvalues. A general quantum
state (called a pure or superposed state) is thus represented as a linear superposition of basis
states; a measurement is represented by the rotation of the state vector onto one of the axes.
It is important to note that in this mathematical framework the concepts of state, eigenstates
and outcome probabilities are all defined by specific preparation and measurement processes,
conceived by a human being. All numbers involved in this quantitative framework represent
algorithmic information [2] which does not describe one given system as happens in classical
physics, but which pertain to a mathematical model representing sets of identical systems, and
only has statistical meaning.