interpret the early Wittgenstein when he affirms that the limits of my language are the limits of my
world (see item 5.6 in the Tractatus), i.e. the limits of description and interpretation of what we
perceive though senses and instruments, although the construction of an instrument presupposes
a preliminary conceptual idea on some aspects of the world. The limits of the speech about



physical events are those implied by principles and mathematics adopted. They are also the limits.
of researcher’s imagination, which determines value and would like to embrace the world trying
to perceive (perhaps we cannot do nothing more than trying) its ultimate essence. For these
reasons, I find unfruitful polemic positions about the presumed excessive use of mathematics
in mechanics. It is not so much a matter of showing to the community the personal ability of
managing articulated mathematical structures as the basic fact that when we use some tools
we are able to tell something with a certain deepness and when we change tool we are telling
something else, perhaps less comprehensive for being less general (this is the reason, e.g., pushing
me to choose above to work with abstract differentiable manifolds instead of considering more
simply M as a linear space ...but this is just a trivial example). The question is to decide
about what we want to tell, not a priori about the mathematical tool we want to use. Formal
simplicity must be preferred to a more involved structure only when we reach the same level
of descriptive richness with respect to potential events in a specific class. By contrast, manifest
idiosyncrasy for advanced formal structures could be interpreted just as a way of saving your
own position without entering into a land in which one believes (perhaps even unconsciously)
to be unable to walk. So, the question becomes psychological more than objective. By contrast,
the concrete question is the quality of the results we get and the way they are evaluated.
Evaluation of models and articulate theoretical views is matter of culture, psychology, ethics of