
The second method has been gaining more interest within the literature in recent years. It is
the process of chip thinning through etching, which can be done in two ways: dry etching or
wet etching. In terms of dry etching, there are different types, mainly RIE, deep reactive ion
etching (DRIE) and physical ion etching (PIE). The first two types use plasma to chemically


remove material, in this case, a layer of wafer or substrate, whereas PIE, as its name indicates,
physically removes said layer using high energy beams of ions, photons or electrons [68]. There
is a tendency for research groups investigating the fabrication of neural probes to use DRIE
for thinning processes [21,69], hence for the purpose of this paper, the main focus was on this
technique. The main advantage that using this technique provides instead of using others such as
back grinding is the fact that it is not as physically aggressive and hence, in terms of the structural
integrity of the wafer, the probability of it being compromised is extremely low. In addition, this
technique has been proven to work for a variety of thicknesses, even going down to 2pm in
neural probes [69], which makes it incredibly versatile, while still maintaining good mechanical
properties. However, it is safe to note that it is a more expensive, complex and long process and
that there is a chance of contamination, so it should be taken into account during the selection
process, in particular during prototyping and initial experimental stages of chip thinning.

On the other hand, there is wet etching, which has been described in [64] as a technique that
requires both pre- and post-processing, unlike the two other techniques already described. The
methodology would be as follows: first deposit a mask layer on the back side of the wafer, process
the front side and then etch the back side. The advantages of using such a technique would
be that, firstly, it is a well-established technique, with studies being done on neural probes as