scale fluctuations of the scalar field leads to an eternal, self-reproducing, inflationary multiverse. In
this, each inflating bubble consists of further inflating subregions with each one of these in turn
having further similar ones, at infinitum, a process seemingly progressing endlessly to the future
as well to the past. In this multiverse, the density parameter 2 varies continuously between 0 and
, so our bubble together with infinitely others with Q € (0.2, 0.3) lies somewhere in the structure
with non-zero probability.
It is a difficult problem how to calculate probabilities in the multiverse [12], and in a situation
ike this one may produce arguments leading to an overall controversial picture (cf. e.g. [13] and
references therein) for the probability of the occurrence of a stage of inflation. For instance, in
[14,15] one finds opposite views and probabilities ranging from almost one to almost zero. Despite
being hard to believe, this picture appears nevertheless as a natural extension within the wider
context and philosophy of inflationary cosmology, and some recent progress has indeed been
made (see §3c). In fact, most authors agree that inflation is future-eternal [16], but probably not
being so in the past [17] without violating the null energy condition [18].

©) Quantum cosmology

For the consideration of the initial state of the universe as a quantum problem, the so-called
programme of quantum cosmology, one such approach is through the Wheeler-DeWitt equation
advocated by DeWitt [19] and Wheeler [20], describing the evolution of the quantum wave
function of the universe considered as a quantum object. Solutions of the Wheeler-DeWitt
equation then give probabilities for the universe to evolve from one state to another, provided one
gives prescribes how to specify ‘initially’ both the probability amplitude and its first derivative
normal to the initial hypersurface in superspace (this is a set describing the space of all 3-
geometries). One approach to the study of this equation was to consider the limiting case of