or infectiousness of the viral variant during an epidemic. It allows tracking of the status of
the epidemic with R < 1, suggesting that the epidemic is in the declining phase, whereas R > 1
describes increased transmission and a growing epidemic. In the UK, it is derived as a consensus
range from a number of different models and reported weekly by the UK Health Security Agency
[4]. Since the onset of the pandemic in the UK, this R consensus range has been used to track
the epidemic status and to inform and guide policy decision-makers in imposing and removing
interventions such as imposing reduced social interactions intervention, i.e. lockdowns. However,
while R is a useful measure, it is sensitive to, for example, the choice of data being used (e.g.
the number of tests being carried out and any delays in reporting of cases) or the method for
calculating it (e.g. the combination and the type of models used or the length of the time-slice
being used for the calculation). It can also be computationally demanding to provide accurate
estimates. Furthermore, once the population is partially or fully vaccinated defining population-
wide R may not suffice. There are also difficulties associated with the fact that the onset of
symptoms often happen a few days after the onset of infection, and hence, the current value
of R really represents the state of the pandemic at some point in the recent past; in the UK, the
consensus is that the current value of R is lagged by 2-3 weeks [4].

Other metrics such as the rate of daily hospital admissions have been suggested as alternative
metrics that can be used alongside R, especially in a very heterogeneous population with mixed
immunity from vaccination or from prior infection with a specific viral variant. In this article,
we develop and apply a statistical method to derive a different metric related to the daily cases,
hospitalizations, mechanical ventilation bed (MVB) admissions or deaths related to COVID-19
to track the national and regional epidemic status. For this purpose, we analyse the time series
of these metrics to determine the important temporal, spatial and mechanistic dimensions of the
data and highlight potential outliers in the time series.