degree an artefact generated by sparse and decadally skewed data distributions, in line with the
finding that the neural network based MPI-SOM-FEN method overestimates decadal variability
in the Southern Ocean by 30% [31]. We relate the overestimation of the sink since the late 1990s to
the skewed SOCAT data distribution towards low pCO, (figure 3) that leads the neural network to
also underestimate pCO, by 5-10 patm averaged over the Southern Ocean (figure 7). Interestingly,
the dynamics of the reconstructed ocean carbon sink in the ‘stagnation’ period of the 1990s is less
affected by data sparsity and appears to be real. The more robust reconstruction for the 1990s
may be related to the distribution of observations in pCO? space, which is not skewed towards
low pCO} values in the period 1982-1999 in our analysis (figure 3).

Even with the ideal sampling scheme, the mean Southern Ocean flux is consistently
overestimated by about 0.2 PgC yr~! in MPI-SOM-FEN. This seems to be a methodological issue
that may be related to the fact that MPI-SOM-FEN aims to minimize the global mismatch with
SOCAT observations. While regional pCO, biases average out in the first 20 years of the time-
series (figure 7), the local pCO, biases in high wind speed regions do not compensate in terms of
CO> flux (figure 6). Further, the biogeochemical provinces that merge regions from different parts
of the globe with similar environmental conditions may contribute as well [23]. Southern Ocean
mean flux and its trend are also reduced with the ideal sampling in CarboScope, but the effect is
smaller than in MPI-SOM-FEN. This is because the CarboScope mixed layer scheme reproduces
Southern Ocean pCO, well even with the skewed data distribution. A mean pCO, offset of —2
to —3 patm in CarboScope (figure 7) stems from local biases in ice-covered regions which are less
important for gas-exchange (figure 8). Similarly, in the North, which is the best observed area, a
regularly spaced observation network and equal distribution in pCO, space (figure 3) leads to
reduction in pCO, bias in both products (figure 7) and to a reduced CO2 flux trend since 2000
in MPI-SOM-FEN. The results illustrate that a process-based mapping method as CarboScope