convergence into the dLSW density class has been noted in previous studies. Though their focus
is on the strong density-compensation associated with converting warm, salty waters to cold,
fresh waters in the Labrador Sea, Zou et al. [35] show (in their fig. 1b) that there is about 4Sv of
convergence into the LSW density range [35]. Evans et al. [36] further highlight the role of mixing
in driving this water mass convergence [36].

The OSNAP observations show that LSW is exported in the boundary currents of the Irminger
and Labrador Seas (figure 3). However, in order for decadal variability in LSW formation to
be reflected downstream, it must be exported in a relatively direct manner. If LSW experiences
significant mixing or a wide range of pathway lengths into boundary currents, it is conceivable
that decadal signatures could be mixed away before LSW is exported from the subpolar North
Atlantic. However decade-long observations in the Labrador Sea suggest that decadal signatures
are in fact exported in the DWBC. For example, Palter et al. [37] examined quasi-Lagrangian
float observations in the Labrador Sea’s boundary current and found the thickest layers of LSW
exiting the DWBC in the late 1990s when the thickest layers of LSW were formed by intense deep
convection in the central Labrador Sea [37]. Into the early 2000s, as LSW formation slowed, the
thickness of LSW exiting the DWBC decreased. They note, however, that many of the thick layers
of LSW in the DWBC appear to be ventilated within the boundary current. Yashayaev & Loder
[23] similarly found that decadal temperature variability in LSW formation regions (at 1500 m)
is mirrored at the western boundary (at 1000 m) [23]. Of course, given that there is some direct
ventilation of the boundary current, this could also result from the boundary being exposed to
the same decadal atmospheric forcing.

Recent OSNAP observations have allowed a closer look at LSW export into boundary currents.
Le Bras et al. [33] showed that some waters formed by deep convection in the interior of