Finally, we turn to the low-dimensional composite systems. This category encompasses the :3
(mono)layer of atoms on the surface of a bulk material, single molecules and clusters on metal : =
or insulator surfaces, and the formation of structures in monolayers of molecules and atoms on :3
various substrates. A further class of systems would be the formation of structures by molecules : =
or atoms that have been intercalated inside a layered material, or inside a zeolite or metal-organic :8
framework. The major challenge in these systems compared with the pure two-dimensional or aieel
one-dimensional systems, or the quasi-one-dimensional and quasi-two-dimensional systems, is :3
the large number of atoms that represent the background structure (substrate, host framework, : S
etc.), which greatly complicate the energy calculations needed for the structure predictions. :g

The issue here is not only the large number of atoms involved but also a particular challenge, “oO

ie. the fact that frequently the types of interactions inside the molecule, inside the substrate
and between molecule and substrate would require three different types of empirical potentials
(that are often difficult to combine!) for a simplified description of the energy during the global
optimization. Sometimes it is possible to replace some of the interactions by empirical potentials
or even to keep the substrate atoms in fixed positions. But in general, one will have to use ab
initio energy calculations for the whole system as much as possible already during the global
exploration stage, pushing the limits even of high-performance supercomputers.

As a consequence, the global search often needs to be structured as a multi-step procedure,
with different energy functions and different exploration methods employed at each stage,
just to obtain some physically and chemically reasonable structure candidates. One common
approach frequently employed for the structure prediction of single molecules or clusters on
a substrate consists in performing many local structure optimizations (essentially a multi-