solids show a heterogeneous spatio-temporal behaviour. Comparable with enzymes, which are
found to ‘sleep and work’, catalyst may show a similar on-off behaviour [28-31]. Major efforts
have been undertaken within the field of spectroscopy, imaging and characterization to follow
the spatio-temporal evolution of the material. Operando spectroscopy was introduced around
2000 within the field of heterogeneous catalysis and has since then greatly evolved and allowed
to spectroscopically follow how an operating catalyst is working [32-37]. Yet even today, it
remains also for experimentalists a formidable challenge to follow on the fly the dynamic state
of a material. A nice example is the stimuli-responsive behaviour observed for some MOFs,
where a material shows bistable or multistable behaviour upon exposure to external stimuli
such as temperature, pressure and gas adsorption [38]. Experimentally, framework flexibility
can be recognized by monitoring the response of the material upon exposure to the external
stimulus; however, to date it has proven impossible to follow the dynamics of the transition on
the fly [25,39]. This is caused by the fact that the dynamic response is dictated by the occurrence
of metastable states which are separated by energetic barriers and which are hard to assess
experimentally. Major experimental efforts are currently undertaken to build in situ cells to
unravel the spatio-temporal response of MOFs under operating conditions; however, to date the
realistic time scales and the kinetic response of these soft porous frameworks are yet to be resolved
[2,14,25,40].

3. Open questions and challenges in modelling dynamic processes in realistic
nanostructured materials at operating conditions

Having introduced typical length, time scales and complexities within realistic materials, we can
refer back to the initial question namely in how far we are capable of modelling dynamical
processes in realistic materials under operating conditions. Obviously, the cited experimental