
However, if one accounts for the behaviour of all vertical links in the system, the conclusions : S
change dramatically. In figure 1c,d, we display the trajectories of the nodes located at odd n behind :8
the crack front. These nodes are connected to the tips of the intact vertical links located there. : S
Here, as shown by figure 1c, the displacement of these nodes remain below the critical value 1G

corresponding to the failure of the vertical links. On the other hand, figure 1d shows that the
node at » = 23 (located at point A) behind the tip can also reach the critical displacement. As
shown by point B there, this node will follow the red curve as the crack advances to the left in
the medium until it reaches the critical displacement at point C. At this point, the vertical link
associated with the node at 1 = 23 fails. Thus, for the case shown in figure 1b, there are two sites
within the structure that can fail, and this violates the conditions under which the bridge crack
can propagate steadily. In fact, as we show below, if one also considers the elongation of the
horizontal links in this isotropic medium, depending on their strength, one can show that none of
these regimes is physically acceptable.

The structure of the article is as follows. In §2, we introduce the problem and the governing
equations of a discrete elastic chain separating as a result of the propagation of a bridge crack. In
§3, we use the dynamic Green’s function for the intact system to represent the solution to the main
problem. This is exploited in §4 to obtain a Wiener-Hopf equation that allows one to fully solve
the considered problem and determine the profile of the medium undergoing failure. In §5, we
use the analytical solution to determine physically acceptable solutions connected with a steadily
propagating bridge crack. Additionally, we introduce some aspects that allow us to take into
account the structural integrity of the entire medium when undergoing failure. We show that this
leads to a maximum speed for bridge crack regimes and sheds further light on whether these