
What was wrong with the scaling solution (3.4)? Note that the two-thirds power dependence
of y on ky has been found empirically in many simulations (e.g. [25,26]), so my criticism aims at
the method of derivation rather than at the result itself. As already noted by Bryan [23], we took
quite some liberty in using the scaling for the zonal flow in the scaling for the meridional flow. But
zonally averaged meridional flow is potentially a small residual of western boundary current and
return flow in the eastern basin, as the meridional overturning circulation (MOC) in the North
Pacific shows (e.g. [27,28]), so there is no a priori reason why isotropy—i and v scale alike—
should be a good assumption. Instead, a scaling for the zonal-mean meridional flow should invoke
the zonal-mean zonal pressure gradient—the pressure difference between eastern and western
boundaries—just as it showed up in the closure problem (2.1) of the two-dimensional models!
Perhaps because this problem had become the above-mentioned obsession for me, I was struck by
the fact that paper upon paper repeated the scaling (3.4) without being bothered by the apparent
violation of geostrophy and thus Newton’s second law. A close colleague once characterized this
gap in reasoning as minor. I felt, however, that at a minimum we ought to make explicit the
working hypothesis of the zonal pressure gradient scaling linearly with the meridional pressure
gradient, a point clearly acknowledged by Bryan [23] but not by many followers.

The incorporation of thermal wind was not the only problem in the scaling (3.4). As pointed
out much later by Jeff Scott in his thesis at MIT [29], the vertical scale D appears in (3.1)-(3.4)
in three different meanings: In the thermal-wind equation (3.1), D denotes the vertical range of
substantial baroclinicity. In the vertical advective-diffusive balance (3.2), D denotes the depth over
which surface density approaches abyssal density up to a relative residual of 1/e. In the continuity
equation (3.3), finally, D denotes the depth of the maximum overturning or, loosely, the level-of-
no-motion. There is no reason that the three definitions of D should be equivalent or should even