to be able to predict the outcomes of the experiments he considered. His decision to forgo

this representation was a daring step, because throughout the history of classical mechanics 3
from Galileo on, and then electromagnetism and relativity, such a representation appeared to be : s
necessary for making successful predictions concerning the behaviour of the systems considered. :<
As explained above, while designed only for making statistical predictions concerning large : 3S
systems of great mechanical complexity, classical statistical physics, too, was only valid under : &

this assumption, which, again, came into conflict with the data (statistical or otherwise) obtained
in experiments with quantum theory, a conflict inherent in Planck’s law.
Heisenberg made yet another, equally unexpected, move that proved to be crucial and

in fact enabled him to give the correspondence principle its mathematical form. Quantum : 8
theorists before Heisenberg had tried to change classical equations while keeping the same Dos
physical variables, in part by thinking in representational terms of classical mechanics and in _
order to be able to continue to do so. They saw equations and not variables as the problem. : Sy
Heisenberg reversed this thinking, in view of the mathematical correspondence principle. He 2
regarded classical equations, now considered purely formally, and the lack of descriptive or aed
representational capacity of the resulting theory as solutions. These were classical variables and it 22
was their attempted realist and causal use that were problems. Heisenberg retained the classical : 8
equations of motion, while replacing classical variables, which are real differential functions, with DNS
new variables, which were infinite unbounded matrices with complex elements. These elements : z
no longer related to the motion of quantum objects but only to the probabilities of predictions of :s

the outcomes of quantum experiments. Formally, or symbolically, they corresponded to classical