identifiable, small bodies just like the coarse palpable objects in our environment. It seems almost ludicrous that precisely in
the same years or decades which let us succeed in tracing single, individual atoms and particles, and that in various ways, we
have yet been compelled to dismiss the idea that such a particle is an individual entity which in principle retains its ‘sameness’
for ever. Quite the contrary, we are now obliged to assert that the ultimate constituents of matter have no ‘sameness’ at all.
When you observe a particle of a certain type, say an electron, now and here, this is to be regarded in principle as an isolated
event. Even if you do observe a similar particle a very short time later at a spot very near to the first, and even if you have every
reason to assume a causal connection between the first and the second observation, there is no true, unambiguous meaning in
the assertion that it is the same particle you have observed in the two cases. [:--] And I beg to emphasize this and I beg you
to believe it: It is not a question of our being able to ascertain the identity in some instances and not being, able to do so in
others. It is beyond doubt that the question of ‘sameness’, of identity, really and truly has no meaning.’ [87, pp. 121-122].


(at least in certain regimes or approximations)? In fact, the landscape of possible interpretative
positions about the status of the notions of identity, individuality and indistinguishability in
quantum physics is organized by a massive cleavage between the so-called received view—based
on the thesis that quantum particles of the same type are absolutely indiscernible (which implies
for some authors their non-individuality) [1,34]—and the alternative views [78,89].

Whereas Born [86] and Schrédinger [87] clearly stated that quantum particles do not behave
as individuals, Post argued that ‘non-individuality has to be introduced right at the start’ (rather
than introducing individuality by using labels and then wiping it out by using symmetries under
permutations of the labels) [17, p. 19]. Later on, Manin argued that standard set theory might not
provide an adequate formal framework to work with aggregates of ‘identical quantum particles’
[88, p. 36).8 Then, Krause and collaborators took seriously the challenge of ‘developing a totally
new [formal] language’ to deal with quantum non-individual ‘particles’. In Quine’s terms, a non-