identity if identifying an object with itself is trivial and identifying it with anything else is false?’
And Quine answers, ‘[:--] the useful statements of identity are those in which the named objects
are the same and the names are different, it is only because of a peculiarity of language that the
notion of identity is needed. If our language were so perfect a copy of its subject matter that each
thing had but one name, then statements of identity would indeed be useless.’ [144, pp. 208-209].
In other terms, the only non-trivial use of the notion of identity would be according to Quine that
of encoding the relation of synonymy between linguistic expressions.

Quine’s stance seems to fall short of what is required to understand even elementary
mathematical statements like 27 x 37 = 999. Since the two different expressions compute to the
same value 999, we could say that they are literally equivalent. But of course, 27 x 37 and 999
are different qua arithmetic expressions since they convey different computational contents. The
use of the symbol = can then be understood as an abuse of notation resulting from the fact
that the two expressions yield the same numerical value after performing the corresponding
computation. In other terms, 27 x 37 and 999 are in the same equivalence class defined by the
equivalence relation ‘two arithmetic expressions a and b are equivalent if they yield the same
numerical value after computation’. In Frege’s terms, we could say that 27 x 37 and 999 express
different senses (or modes of presentation) of the same reference. Indeed, by introducing the Fregean
distinction between sense and denotation, Girard describes the situation in the following terms:
‘This equality [27 x 37 = 999] makes sense in the mainstream of mathematics by saying that the
two sides denote the same integer [---]. This is the denotational aspect, which is undoubtedly
correct, but it misses the essential point: There is a finite computation process which shows that
the [references] are equal. It is an abuse [-- -] to say that 27 x 37 equals 999, since if the two things
we have were the same then we would never feel the need to state their equality. Concretely we
ask a question, 27 x 37, and get an answer, 999. The two expressions have different senses and we