thought was inspired by thermodynamics. In fact, the reverse is true: thermodynamics was
inspired by social thought and took its ideas not from the mathematics whereby they had first
been worked out in astronomy, but indirectly, via social science.

The famous law of errors, the inverse square law, had already been developed when the young
Belgian scientist Adolphe Quetelet? went to Paris to learn astronomy. He made the creative
transfer of the mathematics he learned there, mathematics for the repeated observations of a
single unit subject to error, to the different case of single measurements for repeated units. What
is the difference, he said, between measuring a single statue 10 times with poor instruments and
measuring 10 different people? In either case, we have a bell-shaped distribution with an average
and a quantifiable standard deviation, and the interpretations can be similar. Nature, he said,
shoots for the average man the way a marksman shoots for target—the variation that exists in our
heights, chest lengths, chest widths, and so on, simply result from the fact that nature’s gun has
too short a barrel [9].

These ideas, especially as popularized by the Englishman Henry Buckle’s History of Civilization,
rippled through the educated world and proved to be vital for the development of statistical
mechanics. Boltzmann and Maxwell both—apparently independently (in this paragraph I rely
on [8]: 111ff)}—used the analogy to individuals to explain their reasoning as they developed
the statistical mechanics of gases. Boltzmann proposed that ‘The molecules are like so many
1A similar confusion also arises for some in the fact that the classes of indistinct states that are the ‘most probable’ (in that they
are most likely to be observed) are not necessarily those with the highest ‘probability’ (greatest entropy), since there may be

more equivalent configurations that lead to somewhat lower entropy states than the single possible macrostate of maximum
entropy. It is unlikely that we would get something that likely.