complementarity as a generalization of the concept of classical causality, which defined classical
physics or relativity. This generalization, not explained by Bohr, will be understood here by
means of the concept of quantum causality in conjunction with a new concept, the arrow of
events, replacing that of the arrow of time, commonly used in this context. While shaping Bohr’s
argumentation, the relationships among observational technology, complementarity, causality
and the arrow of events were not expressly discussed by him either. This article argues, however,
that these relationships are essential in quantum theory.

The argument of the article is based on a particular interpretation of quantum phenomena
and quantum theory, specifically QM and QFT. This article will only be concerned with QM and
QFT in their currently standard forms, and will only mention alternative quantum theories, such
as Bohmian mechanics, in passing. Quantum phenomena will be assumed to be defined by the
fact that in considering them the Planck constant, i, must be taken into account.! The present
interpretation follows Bohr’s ultimate interpretation, developed by Bohr in the late 1930s and
based, in addition to complementarity, introduced in 1927, on a new concept, that of (quantum)
phenomenon. Both interpretations belong to the class of interpretations based on the concept
of reality without realism (RWR) and designated here as RWR interpretations.” In accordance
with this concept, these interpretations place the emergence of quantum phenomena beyond
representation and knowledge or even conception, to be designated as respectively weak and
strong RWR interpretations. This article adopts a strong RWR interpretation, as did Bohr in the
ultimate version of his interpretation. In these interpretations, the capacity of the mathematics of
QM or OFT to predict the outcomes of quantum experiments is beyond conception as well. We
know how this mathematics works, but we do not and possibly cannot know or even conceive
of why it works. These predictions are in general probabilistic, regardless of the quantum objects
considered, no matter how elementary. This is, however, fully in accord with all experimental