interactions with quantum objects. This interaction is quantum and thus cannot be observed and,
in RWR interpretations, represented or even conceived of.

This concept of quantum measurement, in conjunction with complementarity, leads to the
corresponding understanding of the key feature of QM, the non-commutativity of certain
quantum variables, such as those associated with the measurements of a momentum, P, and a
coordinate Q, PQ — QP = ih (and hence is not zero and PQ ¥ QP). This formula is also connected
to the uncertainty relations, AqAp=h (where q is the coordinate, p is the momentum in the
corresponding direction), which are part of the experimental confirmation of QM. The uncertainty
relations are an experimentally confirmed law, independent of any theory. In Bohr’s and the
present view, as correlative to complementarity, the uncertainty relations are understood not only
as the impossibility of exactly measuring both variables simultaneously, but also the impossibility
of simultaneously defining both. Commonly, non-commutativity is seen as relating to the fact that,
if one measures two physical properties involved in one order and then in the other, the outcome
would in general be different, which is not the case in classical physics. However, the present
understanding of quantum measurement, as first a creation of quantum phenomenon, unique
each time, offers a deeper view of this non-commutativity and the difference in the outcomes in
reversing the order of measuring complementary variables, as discussed in [1] (pp. 118-122). This
view is as follows. It is true that the outcomes will be different, if, in the experiment with the initial
preparation of measuring instruments at time tg,, one makes first the position measurement, Mjq,
at time ty; and then the momentum measurement, Myp at time ty1, and then, with the same initial


preparation of measuring instruments (which is possible because one can control the instruments
classically), at time fo2 reverse the order of the quantities we measure, by first measuring the