including the model, necessary to account for the phenomena considered. Although our thinking
is commonly assumed by Q-L theories (and will be assumed here) to be due to the neurological
workings of the brain, it is not necessary to assume (and will not be assumed here) that the
aspects of human thinking treated by these theories arise from the quantum physics of the
brain. Q-L theories may apply even if the physics of the brain is classical. There are hypothetical
theories that consider consciousness or thinking to be an effect of the quantum physics of the
brain, such as, prominently, those by R. Penrose, beginning with [27], and his followers. Such
theories will, however, be put aside here. How the physics of the brain makes thinking or
consciousness, as we experience it, remains an unanswered question, sometimes referred to as ‘the
hard problem of consciousness’, the problem of explaining the possibility of qualia (qualitative
phenomenal properties, such as experiment of a colour, say, green, versus its physical nature,
defined by the frequency of the corresponding light) [28]. The appeal to consciousness appears
to be due to the fact that our manifested inner experience is that of consciousness, and not of the
unconscious, usually inferred by theoretical means from our conscious thinking. While assumed
to be responsible for mental processes, the brain will be treated here as, physically, a black box,
relating the informational input and output, encountered from either the outside or the inside of
a human subject. In the present view, rather than merely unknown, the workings of this black box
are beyond conception, in parallel with strong RWR interpretations of QM, where the black box
is that between phenomena registered in observational instruments in quantum experiments.

Targue more generally that what is shared by quantum theory, QM (to which I shall continue to
restrict myself) or QFT, and Q-L theories is their Q-L ontological and epistemological architecture,
especially the irreducible interference of observation, complementarity, probabilistic causality,
and the arrow of events, all interpreted in RWR terms [29,30]. It follows and, in fact, is assumed
first that in Q-L theories, an observation is a creation of phenomena by means of the interactions