and which, as noted, reflects certain fundamental aspects of nature, assuming that QFT holds
all the way down to the Planck scale. In quantum physics, at least in RWR interpretations,
once one measures one complementary variable, say, the position, no expectations at all are
experimentally possible as concerns a future value of the other at any future point. In fact,
this is true even if one assumes classical causality, as in Bohmian mechanics. In other words,
when one is asked the second question, concerning the momentum, in any given sequences,
the information carried over from the preceding question, concerning the position, does not and,
in principle cannot, influence the response to this new question, or the future predictions from
this point on. According to Wang and Busemeyer: ‘When one is asked a subsequent question,
information carried over from the preceding question provides a context for the construction
of the second and influences the subsequent response’ [33] (p. 2). That may often be true in
psychology and human decision making, but is never the case in quantum physics, beginning,
again, with the fact that quantum objects do not possess information. No information carried
from an earlier position measurement (answering the question about the position of the object)
has any relevance for any subsequent momentum measurement (asking the question about the
momentum of the object). This fact renders this earlier information meaningless as concerns
future predictions. Each quantum measurement is unique, and non-commutativity of QM reflects
this uniqueness, including in the case of two reversed complementary measurements, which
give us different outcomes, in contrast to classical physics. There these outcomes are the same,
because, neglecting, as one can, the interference of observational instruments, both variables
can be determined jointly at any moment in time. Even if one measures only one, the other is



definable, thus reflecting the fact that one decides to know one or the other aspect of the same