incident angle of the wave can induce major changes in the observed response, and using rigorous
mathematical analysis, it is possible to provide insight on a diversity of observable effects and
real-world phenomena. For example, wave scattering can be used to identify delaminations in
composite media with ultrasound [3], and explains how water droplets in the air can give rise to
vibrant rainbows [1]. This broad definition of scattering applies to waves of all types, from surface
waves on deep water through to electromagnetic, elastic and sound waves. In general, there
are two canonical geometries whose scattering properties are now generally well-understood:
spheres and idealized (infinitely long) circular cylinders.

There has been extensive research attention on wave scattering by spheres since at least the
works of Mie [4], whose thorough outline of the separation of variables solution for the vector
Helmholtz equation continues to influence scientific research well into the present day [1,3]. This
is due to the fact that suspensions of spherical, or approximately spherical, objects arise in an
extensive range of applications, from the homogenization of milk to air pollution modelling. Wave
scattering by infinitely long circular cylinders has likewise received considerable attention, due
to its extensive real-world applications, from the design of fibrous materials such as kevlar to
aerofoil design for aircraft [3]. It would appear that the first comprehensive multipole solution
for scattering by circular cylinders, in the setting of Maxwell’s equations, was conducted by von
Ignatowsky [5], although the first scattering solution was outlined some decades earlier by Lord
Rayleigh [6]. An exhaustive early history of the scattering literature for spheres and cylinders
may be found in Kerker [2]. Interest in multipole solutions for cylinders has grown significantly
in recent decades with the advent of two-dimensional photonic, phononic and other crystals as
well as with the advent of metamaterials (discussed below) [7,8]; however, results have been
primarily obtained using numerical methods, with few analytical treatments available for non-
circular cylindrical configurations.