application of the concept of probability to, individual quantum events is possible. First of all, at
least in most quantum situations, any verification of such individual estimates would still involve
multiple events, and these individual estimates will rely on that data, reflecting these repeatable
statistics. A Bayesian might contest this point in the case of quantum phenomena similarly to the
way it might be and has been contested by Bayesians in the case of our estimates of the probability
of a coin toss [29, pp. 317-320]. More crucial is that an individual quantum event may be beyond
(rigorously) assigning it a probability at all.

Consider the double-slit experiment. It is true that in the case of the interference set-up (both
slits open and there are no counters allowing us to detect through which slit each particle in
question passes), we observe the interference pattern, defined by the zones of permitted or
‘forbidden’ impact. This pattern is strictly statistical in nature, manifesting itself only in a very
large number of trials, around 70000. The statistical nature of this pattern also reflects the fact
that there is no zone of forbidden impact for any individual trial. Any given trial can leave its
mark anywhere on the screen, as is clearly shown by the famous data of A. Tonomura’s single
electron build-up experiments [49]. Some trials (admittedly a statistically small number) can
produce no impact at all. In view of these considerations, it would be difficult to speak rigorously

2The so-called quantum Bayesianism or QBism exemplifies the complexities of Bayesian thinking in quantum theory and
beyond [47,48]. While it adopts a non-realist view of quantum objects and processes, and in this respect is in accord with
Bohr’s interpretation and the statistical Copenhagen interpretation, it is different from both in other respects [48]. To properly
address QBism and to fairly assess its claims would require an extensive analysis that cannot be undertaken here.


of assigning a probability to an individual trial. It is true that in certain experiments, such as the