and was one of Bohr’s points, that this approach may be adopted even if the nature of biological
processes is not physically quantum in the sense of life being a physically quantum effect. In
this case, it would be automatically unrepresentable or inconceivable in Bohr’s interpretation.
At stake here, however, or in quantum-like modelling in psychology or neuroscience are
parallel, rather than connected, situations that may require the same mathematical models.
This view also implies a potentially emergent nature of biological processes, as not reducible
to physical ones, classical or quantum, but rather as unrepresentable or inconceivable in
their own right. At least, this nature would not be ‘mechanically’ described as a theory and,
correspondingly, not represented by its mathematical models, just as quantum objects and
processes were not described (rather than placed beyond any description or conception) by
Heisenberg in his discovery of quantum mechanics. There is, again, a crucial difference, because
in quantum mechanics, such causal connections are difficult and, in interpretations in the spirit of
Copenhagen, impossible to assume, in the latter case by virtue of the fact that a realist model of
how quantum phenomena come about is, to return to Bohr’s locution, ‘in principle excluded’ [12,
vol. 2, p. 63]. As indicated above, the situation on this score is far less clear in biology, psychology
or economics, where such connections would be molecular in the first case, neurological or
psychological in the second, and psychological, sociological, political or economic in the third.
Indeed, while still entertaining in principle a similar argument, Bohr, too, was even more tentative
regarding psychology than he was regarding biology [2, pp. 158-166].

A recent article by E. Haven and A. Khrennikov provides an intriguing example of a possible
role of quantum-like discreteness in market economics [55].5 A phenomenon of quantum
tunnelling occurs when a particle tunnels through a barrier that it would not be able to surmount
if it behaved classically and is thus a quantum phenomenon par excellence. The process itself
cannot be observed. (In the present view, no quantum process could be.) We only deal with