by virtue of an interpretation this formalism requires. All modern, post-Galilean, physical
theories, again, proceed by way of idealized mathematical models, even if these models are not
realist or representational. Realist models are representational models—idealized mathematical
representations of physical objects and processes considered, again, as part of a given theory, as
a conglomerate of concepts, which also gives an interpretation to the model it uses. As I said, for
simplicity, I also speak of this interpretation as an interpretation of this theory itself.

All realism in physics (or elsewhere) is conceptual realism, as was acutely realized by Einstein,
who saw the mediation of mathematical concepts as irreducible and essential, and who saw the
practice of theoretical physics as that of the invention of new concepts through which one can
approach reality.> He argued that a viable realist representation of physical reality could only
be achieved by means of conceptual construction, ‘the free choice of [mathematical] concepts’,
rather than by means of observable facts themselves, which Einstein sees as the empiricist
‘philosophical prejudice’, found, for example, in E. Mach’s philosophy [16, p. 47]. A theory,
however, always adds dimensions that are other than mathematical to the mathematical concepts
of its mathematical models, and concepts that are other than mathematical. Such a choice of
concepts is never entirely free and may perhaps be better seen in terms of experimenting
with concepts.

The first type of realism allows for different degrees to which our models ‘match’ reality.

As noted above, these questions could be and, beginning at least with Kant, have been posed
concerning classical mechanics, where our descriptive (visualizable) idealizations are more in
accord with our phenomenal experience. The question has also been posed concerning the degree,
if any, to which the mathematical architecture of relativity (more removed from this experience, as