unidirectional emission is a very attractive property for quantum information applications, as [o
it allows for the deterministic entanglement of spin and photon path information [11]. Further, it [Sh
can enhance the spontaneous entanglement between systems coupled to the waveguide [12]. ,

Directional behaviour of this sort has been experimentally demonstrated with quantum dots
in photonic structures [13], surface plasmons [14] and atoms coupled to the evanescent fields
of optical resonators [15], as well as in photonic crystal waveguides [16,17]. It is well known
that slow light enhances the light-matter coupling of emitters to photonic crystals. Thus, it
seems obvious to investigate the use of slow light to enhance the spin-photon coupling at
C-points in photonic crystal waveguides. However, standing waves (modes with vg =0) are
constrained by temporal symmetry and the reciprocal nature of light: that is, the equal forwards
and backwards travelling components of the wave destroy propagation direction symmetry
breaking, ensuring that any chirality must vanish. This fact places limits on the use of chirality in
the slow-light regime.

In this paper, we use calculations of the waveguide eigenmodes to investigate the limit of
polarization chirality in photonic crystal waveguides in the slow-light regime. We analyse the
temporal symmetry constraint in greater depth, showing that the chirality disappears when
C-points of opposite handedness approach and annihilate each other as vg — 0. We also present
a second photonic crystal waveguide design that lacks the inversion symmetry usually present
in waveguides. The crucial feature of this waveguide lies in its photonic bandstructure: there
are two waveguide modes which become degenerate at the bandedge. This degeneracy changes
the role of the temporal symmetry, allowing both modes to contain chirality and even C-points
at the bandedge. However, we show that nature conspires against us: despite the existence of
chirality in degenerate standing waves, chirality cannot effectively be used as the waveguide