models for synthetic design inspiration

The results of the study above serve as an important example to all who study hierarchical
biological surfaces, and to those who wish to mimic them. In these experiments we found that
the gecko adhesive system does not perform ‘maximally’ in all conditions (i.e. hydrophilic glass),
and rather, reduction of adhesion due to surface lipids is likely related to broader, system-level
requirements that may be a result of any number of sources. It is also important to remember that
only three types of surfaces were tested in air, and one in water in these experiments; imagine all
the surface conditions and substrates a gecko encounters during its normal activities and what
the results of those experiments may yield [25].

The majority of gecko-inspired synthetic adhesives focus completely on adhesion, rather than
anti-adhesion (though see [64]) and other properties. In fact, most gecko-inspired synthetics only
mimic the fibrillar setal geometry, paying little attention to chemistry, material properties or even
context (ie. the adhesive environment), all of which appear to be important parameters in the
natural system. Remarkably, many of these synthetics perform well in laboratory conditions,
some of which even outperform the natural system in terms of adhesive performance (e.g. [65]).
Yet, why do we not have a gecko-inspired adhesive that can resist high loads, attach and
detach with ease, self-clean, remove water, maintain material properties in variable environments,
and resist wear and deformation simultaneously? The answer to this question is likely our
narrow focus on singular structure-function relationships which do not incorporate system-level
requirements. Optimization is not a foreign concept to engineers and designers [66], yet it is
surprising that we do not appreciate the need for optimization in nature as well. A ‘perfect’
hierarchically structured gecko foot likely does not exist, rather a gecko foot that functions well
enough to support the survival of a particular species of gecko, specific to a particular region