
Accordingly, in large-scale, turbulent boundary layer flow facilities, the opposite trend has
been observed experimentally. Both Aljallis et al. [40] and Hokmabad ef al. [21] found essentially
no skin friction drag reduction for the NeverWet coating at high Re. In both these studies, a small
amount of drag reduction was observed, but only at the lowest Reynolds numbers tested. Similar
trends have been reported for other SHSs, such as some of the surfaces tested by Bidkar et al. [23]
(figure 9). However, recall from figure 8 that increasing the pressure can raise ¢;. For channel flow,
the pressure drop is proportional to the Reynolds number. Thus, it is uncertain whether increasing
the Reynolds number mitigated the observed drag reduction in some studies owing to pressure,
increased wall shear stress or if the effect was due to a specific Reynolds number dependence.
Most likely, all three will affect the efficacy of an SHS to reduce drag in turbulent flow. To the best
of our knowledge, there has not been a fully developed turbulent channel or turbulent boundary
layer flow that produced increased drag reduction with increased Re. In fact, all studies have
shown that the drag reduction decreased with Re, so much so that drag increased beyond baseline
resistance at some critical Reynolds number. Conversely, the rheometer and microchannel studies
have shown no drag reduction until the onset of turbulence, and then increased drag reduction
as Re increased.

The discrepancy alluded to above also highlights the fact that decreasing 5, alters both Ay
and k+. However, the effect of altering AY with Re is not straightforward. For example, Kim &
Min [48] have hypothesized, and Fukagata et al. [51] have shown, that the effects of streamwise
and spanwise slip act independently. Therefore, an increase in Re could cause more spanwise
slip without increasing the streamwise slip, which would decrease the observed drag reduction.
Moreover, the meniscus height will change as a function of pressure (figure 8c), effectively
changing the k that the flow sees. Thus, even if the effects of increasing Re on at and ay are