(figure 9). However, recall from figure 8 that increasing the pressure can raise ¢;. For channel flow,
the pressure drop is proportional to the Reynolds number. Thus, it is uncertain whether increasing
the Reynolds number mitigated the observed drag reduction in some studies owing to pressure,
increased wall shear stress or if the effect was due to a specific Reynolds number dependence.
Most likely, all three will affect the efficacy of an SHS to reduce drag in turbulent flow. To the best
of our knowledge, there has not been a fully developed turbulent channel or turbulent boundary
layer flow that produced increased drag reduction with increased Re. In fact, all studies have
shown that the drag reduction decreased with Re, so much so that drag increased beyond baseline
resistance at some critical Reynolds number. Conversely, the rheometer and microchannel studies
have shown no drag reduction until the onset of turbulence, and then increased drag reduction
as Re increased.

The discrepancy alluded to above also highlights the fact that decreasing 5, alters both Ay
and k+. However, the effect of altering AY with Re is not straightforward. For example, Kim &
Min [48] have hypothesized, and Fukagata et al. [51] have shown, that the effects of streamwise
and spanwise slip act independently. Therefore, an increase in Re could cause more spanwise
slip without increasing the streamwise slip, which would decrease the observed drag reduction.
Moreover, the meniscus height will change as a function of pressure (figure 8c), effectively
changing the k that the flow sees. Thus, even if the effects of increasing Re on at and ay are
well understood, there is still much work to be done uncovering the effects of Re on k. Seo et al.
[49] have started investigating these effects by allowing the meniscus to fluctuate during their
turbulent DNS calculations (figure 4e). They found that the large stagnation pressures that were
generated near the leading edge of their posts were lessened when the meniscus was free to
move. However, because the meniscus was pinned at the top of the posts, and posts possess a
negligible kT, it is unlikely that the deleterious effects of increasing Re on kt were captured in their