S
Figure 5. Evolution of mean NSAT anomaly (bold, solid line) as a function of time after maximum duration, using data from ih
all 266 temperature sites. The rate of change of mean temperature anomaly is shown by the bold, dashed line. Vertical dashed : 8
lines denote the times of first contact (left), maximum obscuration (middle) and last contact (right). (Online version in colour.) 8
78
(b) Mean temperature anomalies and comparison of derivation methods ad

Using the absolute method, NSAT anomalies ranged from 0.00°C to —3.80°C, with a median
value of —0.70°C. Values of zero are indicative of an inflection point in the temperature trace
rather than a distinct minimum (as might occur in the case of a small anomaly superimposed
ona large diurnal temperature increase). Anomalies were slightly larger when the linear method
was used, ranging from —0.03°C to —4.23°C, with a median value of —1.02°C and a mean of
—1.18°C. The larger magnitude of linear anomalies is due to the fact that this method takes
into account the diurnal temperature cycle which, given the mid-morning timing of the eclipse,
resulted in higher temperatures post-eclipse than pre-eclipse at most sites (averaged over all sites,
the temperature at first contact was 6.01°C, compared with 7.51°C at last contact). Exceptions to
this rule occurred at several sites over northeast Scotland, where temperatures fell abruptly late
in the eclipse period (by 1.5-1.9°C over a 10 min period) and remained low post-eclipse, due to
the passage of a weak cold front during the eclipse (the front is evident in figure 3 over northwest
Scotland). This non-eclipse-related temperature decrease resulted in small anomalies using the
linear method (—0.25°C to —0.60°C), but large anomalies using the absolute method (—2.4°C to
—3.0°C). The smaller linear anomalies are closer to values observed at other sites in northern and
central Scotland. Because the linear method takes into account the diurnal temperature cycle and
appears more robust to temperature changes unrelated to the eclipse itself, linear anomalies are
used in subsequent analysis.