SM of thermostable and mesostable proteins (defined in §3), respectively, with various values of s
and c; 6? and 6™ are parabolic functions of the melting temperature and the number of residues
of the target protein (see [27] for details).
The scores of HoTMuSiC and Tm-HoTMuSiC were evaluated in strict fivefold cross-validation
on the above cited learning set MutS of about 1600 mutations. They are quite good: 4.3°C for
HoTMuSiC and 4.2°C for Tm-HoTMuSiC, which decreases to 2.9°C for both methods when 10%
outliers are removed. These performances are much better than those of other methods with
similar approximation levels [27]. As expected, the predictions from Tm-HoTMuSiC are more
accurate than those from the standard HoTMuSiC, given that additional potentials are considered,
which take more properly into account the thermal stability properties of the proteins. However,
the difference in performance is smaller than expected, especially in the light of the results shown
in the next section where a relation between the Tm of the wild-type protein and the ATm
distribution of point mutations is observed. This can be attributed to the fact that the T-dependent
potentials are extracted from small datasets of about a hundred proteins and thus are noisy, even
if some tricks were employed to limit this small-size effect [27].

5. Analysis at the structuromic scale

On the basis of the results obtained at the protein level, we analysed the thermal properties
of proteins at the structurome scale in view of understanding how the physical principles that
drive the thermal optimization are reflected in the evolutionary pressure on the sequences, which
occur in response to the thermal conditions of the environment. In the last decade, a series of
investigations tackled this issue (e.g. [29-34] and references therein), but the answers remained
elusive and too frequently model dependent. For example, it is still debated whether or not the
distribution of the effects of amino acid substitutions on protein stability is universal and whether