found in the Outer Hebrides may indicate that the original current did not extend as far
west as the present field of positive anomalies. To try to account for the anomalies by
assuming the rocks in this region are abnormally dense is not satisfactory. Even if we take
the density to be 3-0, a thickness of at least 10,000 ft. would be required. To produce any
appreciable effect over such an extensive region they cannot be compensated. For a limited
area, the strength of the earth’s crust might be sufficient to support the additional mass now
present but it does not explain its origin.

4:37. English Channel and Irish Sea (stations 1 to 3 and 46 to 51)

The observations in the English Channel (nos. 1, 2 and 3) are too few to enable any
detailed conclusion to be reached, but the negative anomalies in this area fit in with the
known facts concerning the geology of the region. The positions of the stations and the free-
air, Bouguer and isostatic anomalies are given in table 8 and are plotted on charts 2, 3 and 4.
As the topography is slight, these do not differ greatly from one another. At Southampton
a Bouguer anomaly of —31 mgals is found (Bullard & Jolly 1936); 12 miles south-east of
this, the Portsdown borehole penetrates to a depth of about 6000 ft. and just reaches the Trias.
Assuming that the mean density down to this depth is 2-2, we can account for the observed
anomaly provided there is no isostatic compensation. The geological evidence concerning
the eastern part of the Channel indicates that there is probably a basin filled with Mesozoic
sediments. The evidence has recently been reviewed by King (1949), who confirms this
general structure and shows that in mid-Channel the depth of sediment may well be 4000
to 6000 ft. This would more than suffice to account for the observed anomalies. The fact
that even larger anomalies are not found indicates that either the density of the sedi-
mentary rocks is greater than 2-2 or that some degree of isostatic compensation has taken