T and IJ in table 4. But since neither of these is identical with any other sterol so far
studied, it is not at this stage possible to say whether the difference between them is
only crystallographic or chemical as well—though the latter seems most likely.

It is probable that many of the preparations so far examined are not altogether pure,
as such great similarity in crystallography frequently results in mixed crystal formation.
This is comparatively easy to recognize where the pure compounds have previously
been studied, but more difficult where the suspected preparation contains new
derivatives. The comparison between y-sitostanol and the preparation of a/-sitostanol,
for example (table 4), was undertaken to settle the question of the identity or otherwise
of these compounds. The X-ray photographs are exceedingly similar, much more so
than photographs so far studied of different individuals, and suggest that the main
constituents of the two preparations are identical. But the fact that the two sets of
photographs are not exactly the same indicates that there must be one or more different
constituents in either or both samples. And one possible constituent is suggested by
the fact that spinastanol also gives photographs practically identical with those of the
sitostanols in the spacings, though markedly different from them in the intensities of
the X-ray reflexions. Other similar examples of mixed crystals appear among the
sitosterols themselves. In the soya-bean sitosterol preparation it is common to find
some crystals which give X-ray reflexions very similar in position and intensities to
y-sitosterol but not showing the superstructure which gives y-sitosterol a doubled
a dimension, while others show a much weaker superstructure. Still it is noticeable
that such mixed crystal formation seems only to occur when the crystal structures are
very much alike not only in type but in the relative slope of the molecules. The same
soya-bean sitosterol crystals give in addition weak reflexions of stigmasterol which forms