still inclined to appear a very miscellaneous collection. Eight of them crystallize in
the a 211 group and are nearly isomorphous. A direct comparison between two of
these, cholesteryl chloride and cholesteryl chloride hydrochloride, has therefore been
possible. Chemically cholesteryl chloride hydrochloride differs from cholesteryl
chloride by the addition of hydrogen chloride at the double bond. Crystallographically
this alteration affects mainly the intensities of the X-ray reflexions, and the change
can be followed by forming the Patterson projection, Pxz, from the intensities of the
hl planes. Compared with the corresponding projection of cholesteryl chloride
(figure 1 C) the resulting diagram (figure 8 A) shows a new series of peaks due both
to new chlorine-chlorine interatomic distances and to distances between the additional
chlorine atom and the carbon skeleton. Figure 8 B shows a probable arrangement of
the molecules which correlates the observed effects. From the chemical point of view
the most significant feature of the pattern is the fact that the new peaks lie between
the old lines, showing that the additional chlorine atom projects from the main line
of the carbon skeleton, and the peak A in particular from its strength can be identified
as due to the chlorine-chlorine distance within the molecule. This chlorine-chlorine
distance, 4-2 A, accurately fixes the additional chlorine atom of cholesteryl chloride
hydrochloride—and therefore one end of the cholesterol double-bond system—in the
neighbourhood of C5, which is in agreement with present chemical theory.

Unfortunately all the compounds so far examined in which two halogen atoms have
been added to the double bond show different types of structure from one another.
The orthorhombic forms in which imbrication occurs such as dibromocholesteryl
chloride and bromide are most difficult to solve, but coprostene dibromide and dibromo-
cholesterol should prove possible. Work has been started on a survey of the intensities