SSP differs from that conceived here for their inertial-layer counterparts. For the SSP operative in
the near-wall region, the rolls are maintained by nonlinear interactions among x-varying Rayleigh
instabilities arising from spanwise inflections of the streaky streamwise flow [5,7]. In contrast, in
the model contemplated here, the rolls within the UMZs are triggered by instabilities within the
VFs, i.e. outside the UMZs, because the fissures are the sites of strong wall-normal inflections and
thus are prone to Rayleigh instabilities with disturbances predominantly varying in x/y planes.
Although linear stability considerations indicate that the fastest-growing disturbances have
streamwise wavelengths comparable to the (dimensional) VF thickness A;, these modes cannot
directly couple with motions in the UMZs because their wall-normal extent similarly scales with
A;, implying that such disturbances are confined to the fissure. In contrast, disturbances with
streamwise wavelengths long compared with the fissure thickness induce pressure fluctuations
that penetrate well outside the VF. Moreover, the near-marginal instabilities most relevant to
an SSP are, in fact, long-wavelength modes. As shown in ยง3, the x-varying streamwise velocity
component associated with these long-wavelength near-marginal modes is amplified within the
VE, enabling the fluctuation dynamics to nonlinearly couple with the streamwise-averaged flow
inside the fissure.

3. Large Reynolds number analysis

In this section, we perform a large Reynolds number asymptotic analysis of the NS equation
to derive simplified equations governing the flow configuration shown in figure 2b. In the
idealization considered here, the domain is imagined to have been excised from a large-Re, flow
sufficiently far from the wall that the x-averaged streamwise velocity component varies by only
O(uz) across an outer wall-normal distance ly < comparable to the wall-normal spacing between
adjacent VFs, except near the fissures, where the x-averaged streamwise velocity also varies by