a uniform fluid, even with viscosity; if, therefore, the motion is started from rest it must
initially be irrotational. The mass transport is then uniquely determined.

However, the mass-transport velocities observed in laboratory experiments may differ
markedly from those predicted by the irrotational theory, especially in water of moderate
depth. Thus Bagnold (1947) has found a strong forward velocity near the bottom and a
weaker backward velocity at higher levels—the exact opposite of the Stokes velocity dis-
tribution. Other observers (Caligny 1878; King 1948) have found a forward drift both

& near the bottom and near the free surface, with a backward drift between.
a It appears, therefore, that some assumption on which Stokes’s theory is based is not valid.
8 Now, in the theory of perfect fluids it is supposed that at a solid boundary the fluid may
2 ‘slip’, i.e. that it may have a tangential velocity relative to the boundary. In fact, however,
& the particles of fluid in contact with the boundary must have the same velocity as the
< boundary itself; on the bottom, for example, they must be at rest. But quite near the bottom
6 the fluid is observed to be in motion with velocities comparable to that in the interior of
50 the fluid, so that in general there must be a strong velocity gradient near the bottom. This
sb implies that there is in fact strong vorticity in the neighbourhood of the bottom; and it
‘ will be seen that, even if the vorticity is confined to a layer of infinitesimal thickness, the
‘6 total amount of vorticity must still be finite. In an oscillating motion this vorticity will be
of alternating sign; and the question then presents itself: will any of the vorticity spread
-8 into the interior of the fluid, or will it remain in the neighbourhood of the boundary ?
4 In considering the diffusion of vorticity, the viscosity of the fluid must be taken into
2 consideration; for, although the viscous terms in the equations of motion vanish when the
S motion is irrotational, they do not do so when there is vorticity. Although the viscosity may