estimates that the dimensional fissure thickness A¢ normalized by the outer length scale (labelled aon
/

h in this study) varies in direct proportion to Re, V? using data that span more than two decades :S
in Re,. By contrast, our theory indicates that the corresponding dimensionless thickness of the ,
internal shear layer A =O(Re/5), where Re = (ly/h) Rez; i.e. the theory evidently predicts a
thicker fissure than has been observed. One potential explanation for this discrepancy is the
necessity of arbitrarily choosing thresholds for the quantification of As from raw empirical data.
It is also plausible that distinct large-Re reduced models, based on different scalings, may yield a
fissure thickness that accords with the measured A¢/h. Even in that circumstance, we conjecture
that elements of the global flow structure predicted by the present analysis still may be realized
(e.g. the homogenizing action of the rolls). It is also worth noting that the present theory does,
in fact, predict an inner region of thickness O(Re~?/5), but the streamwise-averaged streamwise
velocity is not sheared over this length scale. Finally, the conclusion reached above regarding
the apparent discrepancy in the predicted and measured fissure thicknesses tacitly presumes the
constancy of the length-scale ratio 1,/h when, in fact, this ratio appears to be a weak function
of Rez.

More qualitatively, we comment that the UMZ/VF flow structure analysed here may constitute
a ‘straight’ section of a longer superstructure that slowly meanders in the streamwise direction,
and that the coupling mechanisms elucidated herein have the potential both to complement
those described by the modelling framework of Sharma et al. [35] and to connect to the features
observed in the numerical and physical experiments of Cossu & Hwang [36] and Baars et al. [37],
respectively. In contrast to the recent work by Hwang et al. [11,12,16] discussed in §1, this
study captures only a single interacting UMZ/VF ‘unit’. Nevertheless, based on the self-similar