6-2. The limiting case qn ~ Q, k ~ 0. Here, on account of the cusps on its flanks, the curve
al interest. It is, however,

yy = Ois no longer an acrofoil, and the flow so loses its chief physic
of considerable mathematical interest since, as we shall show, by choosing in (1-4) a— x*
we obtain in the limit qn = qq K = 0 a field consisting of a number of distinct Prandtl-Meyer flows,
such as normally are ‘missed’ by a hodograph investigation. In calling these flows ‘distinct’ we
speak in the analytical sense; but where the xy-regions containing two of them abut, they
join with continuity in q, @ but discontinuity in the higher derivatives. ‘Together they form
the type of solution commonly assumed for supersonic problems, and this is here obtained
as the limit of a solution which is everywhere analytic.
The mechanism of this degeneracy is, in general and rather vague terms, as follows. For
a Prandtl-Meyer flow, @ is functionally related to q; in fact the hodograph point (q,@) is
confined to a single characteristic. Now the critical locus D — 0 corresponds to a pair of
characteristics, and the hodograph surface of figure 2 has, for « ~ 0, a narrow band which is
practically a cylinder standing on this critical locus. As «~~ 0 the breadth of this band tends
to zero, and if, for some hodograph solution, its map on the flow-plane remains two-dimen-
sional in the limit, a pair of Prandtl-Meyer flows will be obtained. The solution specified
by (6-4) and (6-5) has the desired property because of the presence of D in the denominators
of the leading terms; in the limit, D> 0, but we preserve finite limits for x,y by taking the
scale constant ain (1-4) equal tox?. Moreover, in a neighbourhood of the point A of figure 2,
whose dimensions are small with «, the real and unreal parts of D are independently small,
and on this account its map remains two dimensional as «-> 0. In the limit, therefore, we
ect a proper region of the flow plane corresponding to a single hodograph point, that is,
a uniform stream; this is in addition to the two Prandtl-Meyer flows previously mentioned.