surrounding flow except for the incoming axial momentum, while the wake spreading is aa)
modelled in different ways, according to the various models [2-4]. However, the approach cannot Dw
model the transfer of momentum from above the farm, so that it is expected that such models will :
fail for long farms. Other limitations arise from the complete neglect of any upstream effect that :g
cannot be properly modelled within this methodology [5]. It is indeed of no surprise that such :s
methods suffer from an uncertainty that is at least of the order of 25% [6], but it is expected to be :
even higher for onshore farms.

Linearized models appear as a feasible alternative to CFD simulations because faster and more
efficient methods can be used. Linearized models are prone to be analytically solved, as done by
Hunt and co-workers to describe the flow over low hills [7] and over forested areas [8]. These
analyses led to the development of commercial software such as WAsP and FUGA [9]. Despite
the fact that wind turbines can be described as body forces distributed over the rotor disc (similar
to the actuator-disc method), and that the work of Belcher et al. [8] could be apparently applied
to a distribution of wind turbines, no analytical model has been proposed for the flow over wind
farms. The key assumption of the analytical solutions of the linearized equations relies on the scale
separation between a lower layer, described by a parabolic equation (where the pressure gradient
is constant in the wall-normal direction), and an elliptic region above it, where the pressure field is
determined as a response to the body force. According to the model assumptions, the pressure at
the bottom of this upper layer will then be imposed over the lower layer. However, the situation
becomes different when a wind turbine is present, because the body force is located away from the
ground and the pressure field (determined in the outer layer) would decay when moving close to
it. It appears indeed that the analytical solution of the linearized equations [8] will provide a good
approximation only in the case of body forces of small height close to the ground. Nevertheless,
the numerical solution of the full linearized equations can still provide a reliable description of