that it will require a transformation of the political economy of energy and resources. An essential :8

step in Allwood et al.’s argument is that ‘the feedbacks of global warming have a relatively
long time delay - and a key challenge in implementing material efficiency is to find economic
justification today for actions that will benefit the population in future’ [14]. Séderholm & Tilton
[3], and Low in this special issue [18], expand on this point, emphasizing the centrality of price
information, particularly through taxes, in pursuing the most effective and speedy material
demand reduction. Kasser [19], Whitmarsh [20], Skelton [21] and Frenken’s [22] among other
contributions to this special issue make clear that these economic approaches need to be placed
in relation to cultural, social and political dimensions of material demand. Together these varied
factors make for a rich and complex picture.

Complexity itself is not an obstacle to broadcast storytelling. However, the fact that these
ideas are not circulating widely in mainstream politics and culture. Hence these dimensions of
material demand reduction are perceived by media decision-makers and producers to directly
challenge some stable cultural, economic and political orthodoxies. Hence media decision-makers
meeting the theme of climate change in general and material demand reduction in particular
are presented with actions and impacts that are complex, unsettled, diffuse in consequence and
that at best imply future outcomes that are demanding and uncomfortable. This set of issues
(likely to be tagged by media decision-makers as an ‘agenda’, as in ‘the green agenda’) also
appear to be subversive of some central tenets of the political economy and culture of advanced
capitalism regarding ‘virtuous’ relationships between economic growth, incomes, consumption,
identity, welfare and social stability. Ironically, these features may help to win some slots on
less-watched channels and in less-viewed slots on account of their exceptional status, and yet in
turn make mainstream coverage even less likely (i.e. ‘we’ve done fast fashion/food waste/short