showed at once that P, at Benthe would have to be rejected, and threw some doubt on the
identification of the other arrivals at the stations before Copenhagen.

In order to test the data in this range of distance we compare the observed successes of
the lines with the average density of arrivals between P, and P,. The values of s for P* and
P. are respectively 0-6 and 1-7sec., and the group of stations provides seven arrivals spread
over an average time of about 8 sec. The observed successes for P* and P, are 2 and 1 respec-
tively, whilst the numbers expected within the same distance from arbitrary lines would be
1 and 3. Recomputation of P, without the intermediate stations gives a velocity of 8-3+-
0:2km./sec. and a starting time of 13-9-+ 1-6sec. The velocity agrees with that of P,, which
suggests that the wave may travel for most ofits time in the ultrabasic layer, being refracted
to and reflected back from the free surface at one point in its path. The relation between the
starting times is confirmed more accurately by the fact that the centroid ofthe P, observations
has a residual of 6-95 + 0-45 sec. on P, which agrees closely with the P, intercept of 737+
0°13sec. If the equation of P, is deduced entirely from that of P,, the standard deviation for
one observation becomes 0-8 sec., and the number of successes in the whole line is 7. This is
clearly a much better result than that of the trial line, which obtained only one success for
a standard deviation of 1-7 sec.

Only seven observations remain between P, and P,, six of which might possibly be ascribed
to P*. The velocity derived from these is 6-4-+ 0-16 km./sec., but the line scores only two
successes for a standard deviation of 1-6sec. In general, the postulate of an additional
layer should only be made when the evidence in its favour is strong, and when all the possible
phases which could be produced by a simpler structure have been considered. The present
explanation of P. suggests that further readable phases might be produced by greater numbers