thesis that a rotating body produces a magnetic field of the magnitude required to explain
stellar and terrestrial magnetism. A review of the earlier literature and some discussion of
the existing evidence for and againstsuch a theory have been given by Blackett (1947, 19494).
From the calculations given in the first of these papers, it is clear that the first step in
planning a decisive laboratory experiment with a rotating body must be the development
_of a method of detecting a static magnetic field of the order of 10-9 to 107!°G, so allowing
a field of 10~° to 10~° G to be measured with significant accuracy.

In this paper I shall describe in detail the theoretical and experimental design of a very
‘<sensitive astatic magnetometer, and I shall show that the desired sensitivity can be attained.
© As the rotating body experiment was clearly likely to be one of great difficulty, another
‘and much simpler experiment was planned first. This was to test whether a small magnetic
‘field exists near a massive body at rest relative to the measuring instrument, due to the fact
‘Bhat both test body and measuring instrument are rotating with the earth. Such an effect
Qvould be a probable consequence of a particular form of the Schuster-Wilson hypothesis.
‘This is that a massive body in rotation be considered the seat of a virtual current. Recent
theoretical discussions of this hypothesis, have been given by Blackett (1949 b), Papapatrou
1950) and Luschak (1951). Assuming this, Runcorn (1948) and Chapman (1948) cal-
“fulated the variation of the earth’s field with depth below the surface. By measurement in
Gnines the hypothesis was disproved by Runcorn, Benson, Moore & Griffiths (1950, 195 1).

© Calculation also shows that, if this theory were true, a massive body, for instance, a gold
phere 10cm in diameter, would be expected to produce a field at its surface of the order of
510-8 G. The execution of this static-body experiment will be discussed in § 6, where it will be
hown thatno field of this order of magnitude exists. Thus these twoindependent results agree.