
From figure 4f, it can be seen that the final lattice energy is significantly lower than for
the arrangement in figure 3, and although this is probably a consequence of a much stronger,
attractive Coulomb interaction, it is also evident from the final lattice geometry that there are a
significant number of repulsive PMMA-PMMA interactions. However, even under circumstances
where there is a strong repulsive Coulomb force between like-charged particles, any additional
interactions arising from the polarization of bound charge are always attractive and will serve to
moderate repulsion [43,44]. Under favourable circumstance, such interactions can actually lead to
like-charge attraction [45]. What most probably reflects an increase in particle-particle repulsion
when compared with figure 3 is the RMS speed. In this case, the RMS drops rapidly, more so than
in figure 3, but then as the PMMA particles begin to come into close proximity, mutual repulsion
increases the electrostatic energy, and this is matched by a corresponding jump in the RMS
speed. In fact, the RMS speed reaches a value close to that seen at the very start of the previous
simulation. Ina final simulation of the Whitesides data [29-33], a system is examined that includes
features taken from the two previous results. Figure 5 shows the outcome of a simulation where
there are 36 PMMA and 12 Teflon particles, with the former carrying a charge q = +0.31 nC, but
the charge on the latter has been decreased to q = —0.31nC. There are two consequences of this
change; first, the final assembly seen after 2s is, at best, very disordered with some evidence of


transient trigonal and square arrangements where PMMA particles surround Teflon particles. It
would appear that the charge on the Teflon particles is not sufficient to stabilize an extended lattice
network of the type shown in figure 4. Secondly, positively charged particles (yellow) that are not
part of a lattice are expelled to the boundaries of the container. Evidence for both these patterns
of behaviour can be found in the experiments (e.g. [32, fig. 11a]). The inability of the system to