pure mathematics with physical reality ‘created’ by our adopting them, while Hilbert’s position

was the exact opposite that geometry was an empirical subject more like physics with its reality : =
already out there as discovered by experience, i.e. not that physics was more like geometry as pure : a
mathematics but that geometry was more like physics as empirical. Hilbert saw the role of axioms 73
for physics as a way to put it on a firmer footing, or, in his words as quoted in [4], to support and : XS
fortify ‘when signs appear that the loose foundations are not able to sustain the expansion of the 22
rooms’. The metaphor here was that science is a growing edifice of different rooms in which the [4
different branches operate. The physics here is already out there, we approach it patchily and then : *
mathematics has a retrospective clarifying role, although also an explanatory role if, ideally, one : =
finds axioms that lead to exactly the physics that is observed. :8

In fact, Hilbert took the view that mathematics in general is ‘not like a game whose tasks
are determined by arbitrarily stipulated rules’ [4,6] but rather that good axioms are part of
a pre-existing structure of ‘mathematical reality’ as I would put it. In my experience, many
mathematicians would also agree with this, although many would not. For example, the French
mathematician Dieudonné [7] famously argued the other side—that mathematics was more like a
game of chess in which there is no absolute truth because the rules are arbitrary. In relative realism
we do take the ‘mathematics is out there’ view but we also take the Dieudonné view except that we
do not see it as perjorative. Thus, there is a reality experienced by chess players as they experience
the restrictions of chess while playing, in some sense ‘created’ or carved out by those restrictions,
but at the same time the rules of chess are not arbitrary and constitute an ‘empirical fact’ although
at a higher level as an element of the reality, of possible board games as experienced by designers
of board games [1]. This gives a hierarchical ‘room within rooms’ structure to our experience of
reality a little different from Hilbert’s analogy. Exiting a room by dropping an axiom takes us into