reappear in a triplet series of the F type, and in the reverse order. From the sets
already excerpted the lines (8) 18607°79, (10) 23915°72, (5) 26865°19 appeared to
have all the signs (Rypsere’s tables) of belonging to one series. The formula
calculated from them brought to light a whole long series of observed lines. The
limit found was 30724, close to the value already found (30713) as of the
order of magnitude to be expected. This so far supported the supposition of the
D relation, but there also came to light another result of evident importance in
general theory—viz., the F series already referred to. The ordinary form of a series
is one in which successive lines obey a formula of the type A —¢ (m). In this case
we find series associated with it whose successive lines are given by A+@ (m).
This holds for each of the triplet sets, so that the complete series are given by
A+qm, B+¢ (m), C+¢ (m), where B= A+1864, C = A+1864+830. Quite apart
from the importance of this fact in the theory of spectral series the phenomenon is of
special use in calculating the various constants on which the series depends. For
instance the sum of the wave-numbers of two corresponding lines gives 2A, 2B, 2C,
thus determining the values of the limits quite independently of the nature of the
series formula used. Moreover, the displacements which so frequently occur in the
F and D series in the sequence term introduces uncertainties. This happens in two
ways. First through the modified », values in which it is not always possible to say
whether the displacement is produced in the D, or the D, line. Secondly because
the typical line in any order is often wanting and only appears with a very large
displacement of multiples of A, on the sequence term. This effect, however,
provided it occurs for both sets (F, F), does not influence the values of A, B, C
thus determined. Cases in point are the Kr sets F (2) (7A’,), F (2) (104,),
F, (2) (16A’,+A,) given on p. 380. In consequence it is possible to determine the