described by Kuyrs and Youn, the bimetallic strip, by making or breaking contact
with a contact screw, switched the heating current in or out directly, the current passing
through the contact on the control element. With this arrangement the oscillations of
the temperature were maintained at about one-tenth of a degree. To obtain a better
constancy of the temperature, a resistance in the heater circuit was altered by hand in
response to the indications of the galvanometer in the circuit of the platinum resistance
thermometer used to measure the temperature. The reason for the lack of sensitivity
in the automatic control was not in the sensitivity of the bimetallic strip control, for
that was ample. It actually lay in the quite considerable pressure required between
the contacts for the whole of the heating current to pass. It was stated by Keyns and
Youne that if this difficulty of the large pressure required between the arm and the
contact screw could be overcome, the sensitivity of the temperature control would be
greatly increased. To accomplish this, and in view of the fact that the temperature
control had to be as good as possible for the present experiments, and also completely
automatic, the following arrangement was devised* :—As stated in the previous pages,
the arm of the control in the present cryostat moves between two contact screws.
These are connected so that when the arm makes contact with either the one or the
other, a potential of + 12 volts or — 6 volts is applied to the grid of a triode valve. In
the plate circuit of the valve is a small electromagnetic contact breaker, which makes
or breaks the circuit of the heating current. When the arm touches the — 6-volt contact
screw, no current flows in the plate circuit of the valve and the heating current is “ on.”
When, however, the arm touches the +- 12-volt screw, the saturation valve of the plate
current flows through the valve and energises the circuit breaker, which switches off
the heating current. Actually, several valves connected in parallel are used, so that
a fairly large plate current, about 20 milliamperes, is obtained with ordinary commercial