
According to theory resonance curves obtained in this way for the same frequency, but for signals of
different intensities should have their ordinates proportional. It would seem at first sight that for very
intense waves the sensitivity of the phonometer could be reduced in the ratio of 6 to 1 by taking readings


ATMOSPHERE AND THE ACOUSTIC EFFICIENCY OF FOG-SIGNAL MACHINERY. 253

with the resonator set at a position far removed from that giving resonance. On testing this conclusion
for the purpose of employing the phonometer to measure very loud blasts giving readings far off the scale
of the instrument when tuned to the exact frequency of the diaphone note, it was found that the propor-
tional relationship did not hold with any approach to accuracy. Although it was surmised that the reason
for this discrepancy was connected with the fact that the sound-waves were very much more intense than
any which had been hitherto dealt with by means of the phonometer, it was some time before a definite
clue was obtained as to the exact nature of the difficulty. While carrying out observations at the control
station on a specially calm day, the writer happened to make a slight adjustment of the resonator while a blast
was being sounded by the diaphone. A current of air could be distinctly felt blowing outwards from the
aperture of the resonator. The phenomenon was investigated with a lighted match which was easily
Bf extinguished when held a couple of inches from the resonator. The writer attributes the phenomenon to
S the formation of a rapid succession of vortex rings set up at the edge of the resonator aperture by the
% pulsations of air due to the very intense sound-waves (the scale-reading of the phonometer was about
2 7mm.). A “ vortex stream” is thus set up on both sides of the aperture, that moving into the resonator
= being broken up and supplying air which issues outwards from the orifice. The phenomenon of jets
@ issuing from resonators has been observed by Lord RayLEIGH, who has utilized the effect in the design of
‘© a “vibration indicator” to measure the powerful sound-waves generated by portable forms of fog-signal