continuous temperature readings were recorded as the air-pressure was allowed to fall gradually from 29 to 6 pounds per
square inch; the corresponding acoustic outputs were found to be 350 and 100 watts respectively, while the acoustic
efficiencies were eight per cent. at the higher pressure and 24 per cent. at the lower pressure. Several series of observations
with and without the trumpet confirmed these results which, taken in conjunction with those obtained from the 1913 tests
on a large diaphone, indicate that higher efficiency and greater atmospheric penetration in fog-signal apparatus may be
predicted by the utilization of low air-pressures and by the separation of a single source of sound into a number of small
synchronized units.

With the co-operation of Prof. Dayron C. Mruter of the Case School of Applied Science, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A., notes
from the large and small diaphones were recorded in permanent form as sinuous lines on photographic films, making use of
the “phonodeik,” a description of which will be found in the inventor’s recent book ‘The Science of Musical Sounds,”
(Macmillan & Oo., New York, 1916). Records were obtained to distances of nearly three miles, and their analysis brought
out a number of interesting and important facts. It was found that the sound from the small diaphone, provided with a
detachable trumpet, was extremely complex. From records taken with and without the trumpet, it was inferred that the
effect of a resonator of correct design would be to concentrate a greater proportion of the total acoustic output into the
master tone. The records obtained at various distances from the large diaphone indicate that the high overtones do not
travel far, but are filtered out by the scattering action of atmospheric eddies. As the master tone alone survives to an

appreciable extent at distances greater than two miles, it is obvious that the object of the designer of fog-signal apparatus
should be to concentrate the greatest possible amount of energy into the master tone. From the harmonic analysis of the
phonodeik records it is now possible to obtain accurate data as to the relative proportions of energy contained in the master
tone and in the overtones. ]


248 DR. LOUIS VESSOT KING ON THE PROPAGATION OF SOUND IN THE FREE