endows a system with the capability of operating in either one of two stable states, in the same
experimental conditions, or for the same set of parameter values in a theoretical model. As
outlined in ยง2, the most common form of multiple attractors involves the coexistence of two stable :
steady states, ie. bistability. The phenomenon of bistability has been observed experimentally [=
in a number of biological systems, but much more frequently in theoretical models, for reasons :3
explained above. In contrast with oscillatory behaviour, which occurs or not in a given set of :
experimental conditions, the observation of bistability requires suprathreshold perturbations to 1G
demonstrate that the system can switch from one stable state to another, or the demonstration :
of hysteresis. This is also easier to achieve in theoretical models than in experiments. Moreover, : 4
one begins to look experimentally for bistability once a model has suggested the possibility of 73
its occurrence. What is striking, however, is the variety of biological contexts in which bistability 7S
has been invoked, mostly in theoretical models. In ยง2 we have mentioned more than a dozen 7g
examples; the list is far from being exhaustive, and in fact is rapidly growing. However, the field ,
in which bistability appears to play major roles is definitely cell fate specification, which process is
of key importance for successful embryonic development. A recent example studied theoretically
and experimentally pertains to the preadipocyte-to-adipocyte conversion in fat cell differentiation
[229,230]. Tristability, i.e. the coexistence between three stable steady states, can also be involved
in cell differentiation into distinct cell fates. The development of an organism can thus be viewed
as a succession of transitions between distinct cell fates produced by ever-changing genetic
regulatory networks admitting multiple steady states [52,53,59,231].

Besides bistability, multiple attractors may also involve the coexistence between a stable steady
state and a stable oscillatory regime (hard excitation), or between two or three stable periodic
regimes (bi- or trirhythmicity). Hard excitation and birhythmicity, as recalled in ยง2, have been
observed experimentally in neurobiology. They nevertheless remain more rare than bistability.