During the course of the experiments just described, a bright mirror of silver had
formed along the whole length of the glass rod round which the ribbon had been
wound, and the inner surface of the combustion tube had become completely coated
with a thin brown film, suggestive of the decomposition of a volatile compound
of silver. Summarising now the results of the four series of experiments, it is evident (1) that
with normal electrolytic gas the rate of combination is proportional to the pressure of
the dry gas; (2) that the activity of the surface is always greatly stimulated by
previous treatment with hydrogen, but not with oxygen; (8) that an “active”
surface absorbs hydrogen both at 400° and at dull red heat; and (4) that the
behaviour of the “hydrogenised” metal suggests the formation of a hydride rather
than the mere occlusion or condensation of the gas. The theory of the catalytic
action of the metal indicated by the facts is that it essentially involves the rapid
formation and oxidation of a hydride, or at least of a film of “ hydrogenised” silver. Two independent velocities, namely, that of ‘‘ hydrogenation” (V,) and that of the
oxidation of the ‘“hydrogenised” metal (V.), therefore come into play- during the
process, and the relative values of the two will, in any particular case, depend on the
condition of the surface as regards its power of combining with hydrogen. In the
experiments with the gauze, for example, it is evident that V, was faster than V,, for
with mixtures containing excess of hydrogen the catalysing power of the surface was
quickly stimulated up to a certain limit of complete “hydrogenation,” after which the
velocity of steam formation was nearly proportional to the partial pressure of the
oxygen (vide Experiments V. and X.), In the case of the foil, however, it is evident
from the results of Experiment XXIII. that V, was slower than V,, for the velocity


HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN IN CONTACT WITH HOT SURFACES. 45

of steam formation was nearly proportional to the partial pressure of the hydrogen
throughout.

“eee
BREE

450 fea ae

a
mw

Time - Hours.’
Diagram IV.