As in the case of ordinary galvanic
cells, we have, under the action of light, reversible and irreversible cells, constant and
inconstant cells ; constant cells, the electrodes of which are ‘“ reversible in respect of
the anion,” constant cells, the electrodes of which are ‘reversible in respect of
the cation ”
on the electrodes, and cells showing polarisation owing to the electrodes changing
the nature of their surfaces, &e. The chemical reactions (and chemical equilibrium)
occurring in these systems and their individual nature are now perfectly clear to us
and can be measured quantitatively, though the amounts of the transformations, as
will be seen later on, are so exceedingly small that there is not the remotest possibility
of even detecting the products of reaction by any chemical means, 107" ampére

; we have cells showing polarisation owing to the gases separating

indicating a decomposition of 1 gramme electrochemical equivalent in 30,000 years. The true meaning of the observations of BecQueREL and MINCHIN is now apparent.
“The very curious inversion of the current” observed by Mincurtn with “ Ag plates
immersed in water containing eosine in solution” (p. 211), “ Ag plates immersed into
alcohol containing naphthalene red” (p. 212), with “ bismuth in water” (p. 213), with
“tin plates in aleohol” (p. 216), with his “ sensitive” cell, consisting of a tin plate
acted upon by nitric acid, and a tin plate in methyl alcohol (p. 222), is evidently in
each case due to the fact that all these systems, as now clearly appears from their
composition, must form inconstant cells exhibiting polarisation. The reason why Becqueren with Ag, BrAg and IAg plates found a current
sometimes in one direction, sometimes in another, is not “the thickness of the
layer,” but the kind of combination of the heterogeneous system, of which the given
plate forms only a part. An Ag-AgCl plate in NaCl solution gives a constant cell,
reversible in respect of the anion; its current must, as will be shown later on, flow
from the plate in the dark to the plate in the light.