Further decreasing the pressure will decrease this
8 saturation current, until at very low pressures the whole current will be practically
2 due to the corpuscles shot off from the cathode, as only a very small fraction of these
will strike a molecule in the course of their journey from one electrode to the other.
<= The curves in fig. 5 show most clearly the variation of the currents at these low
ic pressures, We see that there is a sudden change in the curves between pressures of
© 0:2 and 0:05 millim., and we know from other considerations that the mean free path
® of the corpuscle in air is of the same order as the distance between the electrodes
% (0°35 centim.) at about these pressures.*

The curves at the very lowest pressures agree with LENARD’s result (‘ Ann. der

Physik,’ vol. 2, p. 359, 1900) for cathode rays produced by ultra-violet light, that in

3 a vacuum a very large change in the potential difference produces no change in the
— current. The curves of fig. 6, obtained with a platinum cathode in air, present no peculiar
3 features, being similar to those obtained with the zine cathode. The fact that the
electrodes in this case were only 2 millims. apart introduces slight modifications, the
sudden change in the curves which occurs when the mean free path of the ion and
the distance apart of the electrode become comparable, appearing at a higher pressure
than before when the electrodes were 3°5 centims. apart, as we should naturally
expect. The curves given in figs. 7 to 10, showing the relations between the photo-electric
currents in the three gases air, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide, all show that at the
higher pressures the current is greater in carbon dioxide than in air, and greater
again in air than in hydrogen for all potential gradients up to those at which the
genesis of ions by collision begins. They also show that this stage begins in
hydrogen at a much lower potential gradient than in air or carbon dioxide, the
potential gradient required to cause ionisation by collision in these two gases being
approximately the same.