Next let us consider the explanation of the marked effects produced by introducing
a core into either or both of the carbons. These are of a two-fold character ; first,
those such as Professor AyRToN published at Chicago in 1898, viz. :

(1.) The P.D. between the carbons is always lower for a given current and length
of arc, when either or both of the carbons are cored, than when both are
solid.

(2.) With a constant length of are and increasing current, the P.D., which
diminishes continuously when both carbons are solid, either diminishes less
when the positive is cored, or after diminishing to a minimum remains
constant over a wide range of current, or even increases again.*

(3.) It requires a larger current with the same length of are to make the are
hiss when the positive carbon is cored than when both are solid. Secondly, there are the facts connected with the influence of cores on the small
change of P.D. accompanying a small change of current, to which attention was
first drawn by Messrs. Frira and Ropcers in 1896.t These facts, which were
physically correct, although, as I have already shown, they were wrongly interpreted
at the time, are embodied in the following wider generalisations which I have deduced
from the results of my experiments, and from theoretical considerations.

(1) When, on a direct current are, an alternating current is superimposed which
is small, but yet large enough for the resistance of the are to be altered
by it, the average value of 8V/SA is always more positive{t when either
carbon is cored than when both are solid, and most positive of all when both
are cored, all other things being equal.

(2) The frequency of the alternating current that makes 6V/8A begin to have
a positive value is lower when either carbon is cored than when both are
solid, and lowest when both are cored.

(3) The value of 8V/8A, with a given root mean square value of the superimposed
alternating current, depends not only on the nature of the carbons and on
the frequency of that current, but also on the magnitude of the direct
current, and on the length of the are.

* Neer observed the fact that the P.D. fell to a minimum and then rose again, in 1886, but as he used
cored positive carbons only, he did not discover that this form of curve was peculiar to those carbons.

+ “The Resistance of the Electric Arc,” ‘Phil. Mag.,’ 1896, vol. 42, p. 407.

{ Icall 8V/3A more positive in one case than in another when it has either a larger positive value, or
a smaller negative value in the first case than in the second.