It is passed whilst hot successively
through a number of rolls until its diameter is about 0°5 centim.; the hot rod is
finally coiled in a heap, and so cools quickly in the open air.

(2) Rod Annealed.—The rod as received from the rolling mill is now annealed by
enclosing it in pots from which air is excluded; these pots are heated in a furnace
toa bright red heat, at which point the firing is stayed and the fire is allowed to
die out. This operation occupies 24 hours.

(3) Rod Hard Drawn.—In this stage the annealed rod is forcibly drawn through
a perforated plate, which at once reduces the sectional area by about 50 per cent. ;
the rod now becomes hard.

(4) Rod Tempered.—The process to which the rod is next submitted is sometimes
called “ patenting” or “improving.” It is carried out in different ways by different
manufacturers, but in these wires it consisted in heating uniformly to a bright red
heat in absence of air, and afterwards cooling slowly in a special chamber at a
moderate temperature.

(5), (6), (7), (8) Wire Cold Drawn.—The tempered wire is drawn through smaller
and smaller holes in the draw plate, the sectional area being reduced each time by
about 40 per cent. of its preceding value; the diameter in these specimens is in this
way diminished to 0°137 centim. at the 8th stage.

(9), (10), (11), (12) The succeeding wires are now all drawn from No. 8 directly
and do not pass through every intermediate hole; thus No. 10 is not No. 9 drawn
one hole smaller, but is No. 8 reduced at once by a single drawing, and similarly for
the others, except, perhaps, No. 12, which probably passed through stage 9 or 10. These facts relating to the drawing of the last three stages are worthy of notice,
as the results of a number of experiments on these wires show some irregularity in the
progressive change of their physical properties in the final stages, and the method
of drawing in these stages may in part account for the irregularity.

5. The samples illustrating the twelve stages were not long enough to allow the
thickest of them to be made more than 50 diameters long, and this fixed the
dimension ratio for the whole series, but an additional series, from No. 5 upwards,
was cut to a dimension ratio of 100. All the wires were magnetised in the same
way between the poles of a powerful electromagnet, and then immediately examined
for magnetic intensity, and its changes under variations of temperature, with the
apparatus formerly described.* The results, which are given in Table III., and
plotted in Diagram III., disclose several interesting facts; thus rolling hot and

* ‘Roy.