The temperature of decomposi-
tion is for all pressures about the same, and lies between 800 and 900 degrees
Centigrade. Some measurements taken in liquid nitrous oxide and liquid carbon dioxide are

given in Table VII. (p. 251). Conclusions.
a

S The general result of the investigation is to show that the law which connects the
§ thermal emissivity with the temperature of the radiator and the pressure of the
§ gas is—

by E = ap* + bp*9,

n
= where E = Emissivity = Heat dissipated per second, per degree Centigrade tempera-
©ture interval, per centimetre of area, expressed in gramme-degrees. a, a, b, B, are
5 the constants given on page 236, p is the pressure in atmospheres, and 9 the
#temperature interval.
<a The bearing on astro-physical problems is at once apparent, and the high effective
8 conductivity of compressed gases must be taken into account when treating questions
Srelative to the mean temperature of the sun, its rate of cooling, or more generally,
3 any problem dealing with the physical state of gaseous astral bodies.
= Although extrapolations are always very uncertain, in the present case it seems
S justifiable to conclude that under the very great pressures with which astronomical
= physics has to deal, all gases or vapours would transmit heat at a higher rate than
= the best conducting solids known.
& From a practical point of view, the results obtained explain the very rapid cooling
& of the products of an explosion, a fact which has not only been noticed during the
3 course of experiments on ballistics, but has long been well known to all engineers
5 engaged in the construction of gas engines.
z The relatively small cooling surface required, in the case of gases under high
Q pressures, is a fact that had been previously noticed, and is already to some extent
taken account of in the design of the modern compressors. The laws of thermo-dynamics show that the efficiency of all heat engines is
dependent on their temperature range and pressure : in compliance with these laws
the pressures used are daily becoming greater. It is therefore hoped that the present
investigation may be of some use to those engaged in practical engineering.