Avrvon, F.R.S. Received and Read June 20, 1901,—Received in revised form October 2, 1903.

[Pate 2.]

Since Davy’s discovery of the electric are, a century ago, down to the present time,
the nature of the physical processes going on in it, and the mechanism by which it
conducts electricity, have been the subject of almost uninterrupted discussion and
experiment. In order to explain the fact that the equation connecting P.D. current
and length appears to contain a large practically constant term, experimenters have
assumed that the are possesses resistance and E.M.F., though which of the two is the
more important in obstructing the flow of the current, or whether both must be
considered, has been, and is still, a matter of controversy, the settlement of which, it
is hoped, will be furthered by the experimental results described in this communi-
cation,

A priori it is highly probable that the resistance and E.M.F.’s of the electric are,
if they exist, will be functions of the current; it is therefore necessary to first
consider the definitions of these quantities, as it will largely depend on the definitions
adopted whether the are can be said to possess a resistance, an E.M.F., or neither. The ordinary text-book definitions of resistance and E.M.F. generally start with the
assumption that they are constant quantities independent of the current flowing, and
their possible variation is generally developed as a secondary effect due to the current
altering the state or nature of the body or apparatus considered, these alterations in
the state being the primary cause in the change in resistance and E.M.F. observed. There is much experimental evidence to support the view that when a steady
current, A, flows through any conducting apparatus, the potential difference, V,
between its terminals can be written V = E + RA when E and R, the E.M.F, and
the resistance, only depend on the nature, state and movement of the apparatus, and
are not directly functions of the current A or the potential V; so that the equation
connecting the P.D. and current for any apparatus under perfectly constant conditions

VOL, CCUI.—aA 368, 2k 9.8.04


306 MR.