The slight drop in impedance observed when the frequency is increased from 50,000
to 100,000 — per second is possibly due to the electrostatic capacity of the plates
and liquid in the cell, and to the water-bath surrounding it acting as a shunt to the
cell. Attempts were made to determine experimentally the exact value of this
correction, which indicated that it was less than 1 per cent. at 100,000 — per
second,

The possible errors due to polarisation, even when using alternating currents, were
thoroughly appreciated by Konitrauscn, and in the ‘ Leitvermégen der Elektrolyte,’
by Kontrausca and Horgorn, means are described for minimising these errors. By
interpolation from their results the conductivity of sulphuric acid of the same
density and at the same temperature as that used in this experiment is
0:758 (ohm X centim.)~!, or a specific resistance of 1°319 xX 10° c.g.s., which
confirms the value of 1°30 xX 10° obtained in the present experiment at a frequency
of 50,000 — per second,

The fact that the power-factor is not unity at low frequencies proves that at
these frequencies the electrolyte does not behave like an ordinary resistance, and
consequently al/ the instantaneous values of the P.D. between the terminals of the
telephone sometimes used in the Kohlrausch method cannot be made to vanish at


ELECTROMOTIVE FORCES OF THE ELECTRIC ARC. 341

-gouBpadu) oijoedg
on tm

ooo 3S
* Fond sohag *


342 THE RESISTANCE AND ELECTROMOTIVE FORCES OF THE ELECTRIC ARC

these frequencies, even supposing the other arms of the bridge quite free from self-
induction and capacity. This explains the fact that only a minimum in the sound is
obtainable, and not absolute silence. The conclusion to be drawn from this experiment is that in any case where the
P.D. due to the polarisation of the electrodes cannot be made very small compared
with the ohmic drop along the liquid whose resistance is being measured, and where
the errors due to the polarisation cannot be eliminated by taking two or more tests,
then it must not be assumed without proof that the use of alternating currents at
ordinary frequencies of a few hundred periods per second eliminates the possibility of
errors due to polarisation, For in the case of sulphuric acid used above, the
polarisation can vary as rapidly as the resistance of the cored are.


) 9
a ete
“gouepedui

a) ) é C] ° ° ° gL 7: 3 3 3 °

Saree 5 : 5 “SW. : : :
.