Total.

| Neier
7) Frequency . . .| 6 | 40 | 537 410 | 455 | 16 1 1465

= The double modes 6 and 8 are brought out by the above distribution, and this is
3 evidence either of differentiation or of a tendency to an even number of members.
5 Contrary to the usual rule, the mean number of members is reduced when we take
S| pairs, indicating that when we take a spray with many whorls—such as occasionally
& arises from forking—the number of members in the whorls are reduced, and since
S the variation is also very slightly increased (as in Nigella), they are spread out over
>= a greater range.

£ The great reduction in the correlation, the value of which is only +1733, shows how
= unsuited the material was for the purposes of the present investigation, At the same
f=] time the ratio of the individual to the racial variability reaches the very high value
sy of 98°5! We have selected a character to test individuality on, which exhibits
nS) differences which are largely racial, and not peculiar to the individual plant. Section IV.—Ferns.

, (16.) In choosing ferns for considering the resemblance between undifferentiated
like organs I had in view not only the comparative ease of counting (as compared,
for example, with the segmentation of mallow), but the fact which students of the
fern strongly impressed upon me that it was peculiarly subject to its environment. One great authority went so far as to assert that the presence or absence of sori on
an individual hartstongue depended solely on the environment and not at all on the
individuality of the plant. While hardly prepared to accept to the full such a
statement (for I had already learned in a variety of types of the existence of
individuality in a marked manner apart from the influence of environment), I



HOMOTYPOSIS IN THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. 827.

anticipated in accordance with it a fairly high correlation of undifferentiated like
organs, and this has, indeed, turned out to be the case.

(17.) Somersetshire Hartstongue (Scolopendrium vulgare).—I owe the counting of
the sor on 8 to 12 fronds of each of 101 hartstongue ferns to Miss Aces Fry.