For HHG with infrared
drivers, this chirp increases, so that the total duration of the single emitted burst is longer, but, in
principle, can be recompressed to very short duration using dispersive optics.

(e) Control of spectrum and polarization

Another recent topic of considerable interest is in control over the polarization characteristics
of high-harmonic light. For example, generation of HHG light with circular polarization was
considered impossible for quite some time—when a circularly polarized driving laser is used to
drive the HHG process, the ionized electron spirals away from its parent ion and no re-collision
occur. However, by applying two fields with two colours of opposite polarization, re-collision
trajectories in the two-dimensional plane can result in spectra with complex polarization states
[127]. (The same configuration was explored in fact 20 years earlier [128], but the experimental
work emphasized the generation, rather than the polarization state, of the emission.) More
recently, a number of different methods for generating APTs, as well as isolated attosecond pulses,
of circular polarization have been demonstrated [129-132]. Using tomographic reconstruction
in polarization-dependent surface photoemission, the polarization state of these APTs can be
reconstructed and compared with theory (figure 9). T T T
. @, +
€9 An AN AN AN AN AN AN He 970 Torr , + @, |

n 1 1 1 n 1
100 110 120 130 140 150 160

photon energy (eV)

(b)
1.0
2 0s
S
i=}
Ss 0
Ss
wy 05
-1.0
2 3

Figure 9. (a) Circularly polarized HHG spectrum, from [129]. (b) Three-dimensional field plot of the experimentally
reconstructed pulse train of circular HHG, compared with a numerical simulation, from [133].

(f) High-order harmonic generation applications: new science with a new light source

Current-generation table-top EUV light sources generate a coherent flux in the near-EUV
comparable to a synchrotron source—but with much higher peak brightness and intrinsic
synchronization to a laser.