In the combination of four O’s, the two large O’s may alternate with the two
small o’s, in which case the machine movement may be represented by a formula

written thus Cy. For convenience in printing the letters may be put in line.

= The links may be inserted thus —O—o-—-O—o—, and the end links imagined to be
a joined up, or the joining up may actually be exhibited thus O—o—O—o; or, in many
3

*S cases, it will be sufficient to leave the links themselves to the imagination, and
& show only the sequence of motions thus OoOo. This movement is that which is
© obtained by the mechanism known as “ parallel cranks,” which is employed in loco-
g motive engines to connect together two pairs of driving wheels by means of an
~p outside coupling rod.

cf Tf the two angles which increase are in sequence, as would be expressed by OOoo
-€ or OooO, or 0000, this movement is that belonging to so-called “ anti-parallel
3 cranks.”

2, If two complete rotations take place at one joint in the time occupied by one at
2 another, or in the time taken by a complete swing to and fro, it will be convenient to
S express that fact by a doubled Q, thus, or by O*.

< Thus the combination of three O’s and one U may be written thus, o0°0U, or

& when reversed thus, Ooc?OU. Considerations of symmetry indicate that the angular

é velocity at the two single O’s must be equal, and therefore, on account of the

< changing magnitude of the angle at the U joint, it will be alternately greater and

g less than half the angular velocity at the fourth joint.

~ As previously described, we may have the movement O0?U U, and also OoUU.

3 Where a U motion occurs, as for example between X and Z, fig. 1, the construc-

E tion of the links may be modified to the form shown in fig. 2, and yet precisely the

5 same relative motion of all the links will be retained. A For the link X, of fig. 1, a block X, in fig. 2, is substituted, which swings about a
cenire y, which is the centre of curvature of the circular slotway formed in the
link Z.