The effect tends in the opposite direction to
that discussed on pp. 211-214, but the conduction of heat to the walls of the tube
by the dises of copper gauze tends to make the value of the correction much smaller
than that above deduced, so that it is safe to assume that entire neglect of it does
not produce an error of more than 3 or 4 parts in 10,000 on the values of the specific
heats,

In the foregoing discussions no account has been taken of the difference in
temperature between the external and internal surfaces of the wall of the calorimeter
proper. Assuming 0°002 for the thermal conductivity of glass, and taking 0°01 calorie
for the average heat loss per second per degree rise in temperature during the
experiments, it is easy to calculate from the dimensions of the calorimeter proper
that the average difference in temperature between the surfaces of the calorimeter
wall for a rise in temperature of 5° C. was about 0°05 C. Since the heat loss
remained constant in the two flows to the first order of its value, the ditterence
in temperature between the surfaces of the wall of the calorimeter proper would
remain constant to the first order; in fact, it is easy to see, making use of the
investigation given on pp. 211-214, that it would remain constant even in the
case of the experiments at steam temperature to about 0°:001 C., so that the effect
due to it would eliminate on the two flows certainly to 1 part in 10,000. In the case
of the experiments at air temperature the effect would be even less than for steam
temperature.

(14) The Final Experiments.—The final experiments were divisible into two
main sections: the calibration of the fine metal tubes, and the main calorimetric
experiments.

(15) Calibration of the Fine Metal Tubes.—The method first tried was a
modification of that already referred to in connection with the preliminary experiments ;
several circumstances, which it is unnecessary to enumerate, however, rendered this
method somewhat untrustworthy. It was desirable that a method should be employed
in which the whole 16 tubes could be calibrated at once; I consequently devised the


CARBON DIOXIDE AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES. 217

following, which is a modification of RegNavtt’s method of measuring the rate of
flow, by measuring the fall in pressure in a certain time in a reservoir which supplies
the gas.