There
is thus room for the statistical method under which the subject has here been
approached,t in that it explains the wide range through which the formula proves
to be valid as a first approximation ; while it at the same time recognizes that when
the change of density is itself small, but is accompanied by other kinds of physical
change, the influence of the latter on the polar molecule may be sufficiently important
to prevent its exact verification.{ On the specific influence of temperature, cf § 72
infra. l

21. In thus basing a theory of refraction equivalents on the value of the inductive
capacity, it has been tacitly assumed that the dispersion of the medium is small ;
hence the results apply certainly only in the cases in which there is approximate
agreement between the inductive capacity and the square of the refractive index.§
When dispersion in absolutely non-conducting media is taken into account, as in the
previous memoir, § 11, and infra, § 23, the formula however still holds, the constant «,
equal to f’/P of § 24, now involving the period of the light. The fact that for gases, and a large class of denser bodies as well, the inductive
capacity is approximately equal to the square of the refractive index, shows that in
them the polarization of the molecules can completely follow the rapid alternations of
electric foree which belong to the light waves, Thus we can conclude that when the

* Ray.eian, “On the influence of obstacles arranged in rectangular order on the properties of a
medium,” ‘ Phil. Mag.,’ 34, 1892 (2), p. 481.

+ Since this was written, I have found that the analytical method here employed is essentially the
same as that of Ciavsivs (‘Mechanische Wirmetheorie,’ 2, 1879); the fundamental importance of the
ideas involved, and the discussion here given of the value of \, in the case of fluid media, may perhaps
justify the retention of the above independent statement. :

t A theory precisely similar to the above of course applies to determinations of molecular magneti-
zation in solutions of iron or other salts; strictly it is not the coeffcient of magnetization «, but
«/(1 + 47«) that is proportional to the density of the magnetic molecules. The values of « are however
usually so small that this constant is practically equal to «.

§ This accords with the conclusion drawn by Lixve from an experimental examination of the subject,
* Wied.