The latier difference is by Lord Ray.eicu’s
principle, independent of what other gases may also be present in the atmosphere : it
is thus |pdv, where pv = R’@ for the unit mass of gas, and is therefore at constant
temperature R’@ log p,/p,. This does not involve s, and therefore the difference of
the free energies of the dissolved gas at two different densities is the same as if it
existed in the free gaseous state at those densities : and this carries with it identity
for the two states as regards all relations of available energy and work. | Conversely,
the law of Henry follows as above, by the principle of available energy, from the
circumstance that the molecules of the dissolved gas are outside each others’ spheres

of molecular action, independently of any picture that we may form of the process of
exchanges in evaporation and absorption. It is a confirmation of the soundness of this thermodynamic theory, that the law
of osmotic pressure for dissolved gases is immediately involved in, and might have
been predicted from, the equations given by von Hetmuonrz in 1883,t in a discussion
of their energy relations in connexion with the theory of galvanic polarization.

* The assumption is involved that the gases are really different and that means exist for separating
them. [The fact that the amount of available energy at onr command depends on the control we haye
learned to exercise over physical processes does not detract from the objective validity of that conception
as a deduction from general principles of molecular theory, as has often been suggested (ef, §49 supra) :
any more than our possible complete ignorance of some forms of total energy would give to the idea of
energy itself a subjective aspect. ]

+ “Zur Thermodynamik Chemischer Vorgiinge,” III., ‘Monats. Berl. Akad.,’ May, 1883, especialiy
equations (4) and (5); ‘ Abhandlungen,’ III., pp. 101-114, The law had however been arrived at quite
explicitly by Winnarp Grnrs as early as 1876 in his discussion of the general theory (p. 226).