NX During the eclipse of 1886 the sun itself was clouded over, as seen from the station

a occupied by myself in the West Indies; but in other parts of the sky a great number

"goof stars was visible—a much greater number than is visible at full moon. At the

= African station in 1893, the corona was so bright that only the planets Jupiter and

A Venus were seen by Mr. Fowxer.

3 There is, however, direct evidence of change of the total light of the corona plus

© the prominences and chromosphere from one eclipse to the other; and it is probable

that the brightness of the so-called continuous spectrum varies in the same way.

8) Photometric measurements made in the eclipse of 1870 showed that the total

<7 light of the corona was represented by 0°42 of a standard candle at a distance of a

2 foot.* Similar observations made in 1878 led Professor Harkness to conclude that

5 the total light of the corona was 0072 of the same unit.

‘3 In 1886 the greatest value registered for the total light was 0°02 of the same unit,

2 but in connection with this low estimate it is pointed out that the conditions of

2 observation were not so favourable as in 1878.[ Photometric observations were

S made in 1893, but the results have not yet been published.

£ Thus, the greatest brightness of the total light was recorded at a sun-spot

g maximum, while the light was very much less near the times of minima.

£ So far as they go, these facts agree with the view that the true corona is brightest

3B near a sun-spot maximum,

S The more solar physics is studied, the more an enormous change from maximum to

s minimum in all the phenomena is revealed. Besides this variability of the corona

© there is, in addition to the well-known eleven-yearly variation in the number of spots,
facule, and prominences, a variation in the spectra of sun spots so marked, as I have
shown in other communications, that there are few, if any, widened lines common to
the maximum and minimum,

* «U.S. Coast Survey Reports,’ 1870, p. 172.
+ ‘Washington Observations,’ 1876, App.