The total current is thus (u, v, w) given by

—16P 1 dP
u=oP+ 4 dn dt + dae at + PPT Mo
where
dp, dQ’, aR
dnp =), he Vr ;

this is on the hypothesis that the material polarization is all induced and therefore
circuital, and so adds nothing to the convergence of (P’, Q’, R’). If the velocity o
the material medium is supposed uniform, we have

ae +2 = — 4r (pu + qvu+ rw) —

hence, when the material medium is at rest, the condition of circuitality of
current (wu, v, w) is

dp
-2 H
0 = (4no + Ke ap )e— Bi

so that, if initially there is any volume density of electrification, it at once diffuses ot
to the interfaces in the case of conducting media. :
The only part of this scheme of equations that is incomplete is the specification ¢
(ug, Ys Wo): that portion of the current which redistributes free electrifications.
an ordinary conductor this current is of the same order of magnitude as the polari
zation current, which is itself wholly masked by the current of conduction, except i
the case of optical phenomena. In a dielectric this current does not exist at all.
an electrolyte we may form a provisional scheme of it on the lines of NERNSTS
theory of migration of the ions, by putting (uw), Up, >) = kp (P, Q, R), on
supposition that the medium is uniform, where & is analogous to a coefficient
ionic mobility : but we shall thereby destroy the linearity of the system of equati
The fact that free electrons act on each other simply by their electrostatic attrac


THE ELECTRIC AND LUMINIFEROUS MEDIUM. 723

ever the wther between them be disturbed, shows that they will tend to drive
ch other to the surfaces of the conductors, so that the current (1m, vp, wy) will
sually be a transient phase at the beginning of the settling of the disturbance,
agreement with the above, if it ever exist at all; and once the free charges are on
he surfaces of the conductors they will remain there and be redistributed by ordinary
onduction currents. This part of the current may therefore possibly be left out of
ecount ; that is, the electric density in a good conductor at rest may be taken to be
ways null.

19. It is the migration of the positive and negative ions through the unelectrified
material medium in opposite directions that constitutes the conduction current :
1 movement of the medium itself carries as many positive as negative electrons
glong with it, and so adds nothing to the current: the medium in a sense moves
Zhrough the current, without carrying it along,—in opposition to the assumption
ysually implied in the notion of a current element. ‘This is true irrespective of the
hanner in which the current is distributed between flux of positive electrons one
Hay, and flux of negative electrons the opposite way.