Their resistance was about 5 ohms, and that of the galvanometer
about 8 ohms, which, assuming the resistance of the thermometers as about 20 ohms
each, would give nearly the maximum of sensitiveness, A single storage-cell was
always used, and a resistance of 40 ohms was placed in the battery circuit when the
thermometers were in ice. A table was then calculated which gave the resistance
necessary in the battery circuit when the thermometers were at any temperature in
order that C?R (where R is the thermometer resistance) should be constant. Thus
the rise in the temperature of the thermometer-coils due to current-heating was
always the same, and consequent errors were eliminated, a point to which I attach
considerable importance.

“The value of R; — R, in thermometer AB was 6'88815; therefore a difference of
1 ohm at 50° C. indicated a difference of 14°-5177 C., and as

dpt 2¢ — 100
dt — {1 orb eo
the degree value of any bridge-reading at other temperatures can be deduced.

“There was no difficulty, in the arrangement above described, of reading with
certainty a difference of ygg5° C., and, as an illustration, I may mention the fact that
if the thermometers were placed in separate hypsometers side by side on the bench
and one of the hypsometers was then removed to the ground (about 3 feet below),
the difference in the bridge-wire reading thus caused slightly exceeded °4 millim.”

In the paper above referred to, further particulars are given regarding the
standardisation of these thermometers. During the experiments there described

they were used to determine the rate of rise in the temperature of the calorimeter,
whereas, in the work I am now describing,

they were used chiefly as detectors of any


HEAT OF EVAPORATION OF WATER. 287

difference of temperature between the calorimeter and the surrounding walls, and I
therefore omit the details of the determination of their fixed points, &c., although I
must add some other facts which are of importance for the present purpose. The bridge-wire scale was so fixed that the mark 60 centims.* fell exactly in the
middle.