Henee
the conductivity of the interior of the film is different from that of the
liquid in mass.

(2.) The points A, B, D, and the centre of the group C, lie nearly on a straight
line. If, therefore, we waive the objection above pointed out with regard to
D, and note the fact that the group W certainly does not lie on this line,
the facts are consistent with the theory that the film consists of an interior


i

THICKNESS AND ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE OF THIN LIQUID FILMS. 527

of different conductivity from the liquid in mass, bounded by pellicles of
different conductivity from itself, and that when it becomes thin (about
300 y.p.), new forces (presumably surface forces) modify the conductivity in
a way which can be approximately represented by supposing that the con-
duetivity of the interior alone alters. We do not, however, at present wish to draw from these observations any but two
sonclusions —

a (1) The theory of the formation of a pellicle of different conductivity from the

a rest of the film will not by itself explain all the facts.

2 (2) Something in the nature of a discontinuity appears to occur at a thickness of
a about 100 p.u., which is but little greater than that which we have already
BS) fixed as the upper limit of the range of unstable thicknesses to which we
i attribute the discontinuity at the edge of the black part of a film.

oD

=]

3p On the whole, then, we think it most likely that the changes observed at the

‘gmaller thickness are in part at all events due to the direct action of the surface

‘Forces, but that their action is complicated by some cause which at greater thicknesses

a pellicle and also affects the interior of the film.

‘2 There is indeed a great deal of evidence for the fact that if the surface of a solution
f soap in water has been long exposed a pellicle is formed upon it. The surface

Zension of such a solution is about one-third of that of pure water, but Lord Rayieren

has shown that there is no measurable difference if the surface of the solution has

ly been formed for a very small portion of a second, It is obvious, therefore, that

e surface of a solution of soap in water is modified when exposed to the air.

& We, on the other hand, have proved (‘ Phil. Trans.,’ 177, Part 2, 1886, p. 659) that

Bvery disturbance of the surface of a soap film increases its surface tension, and that

She normal yalue proper to what may be called an aged surface is not regained for

veral minutes.