Tuomas Smrru, Electro-
Jater, Glasgow. After polishing the globe was wrapped in tissue paper and kept,
‘surrounded by a very large quantity of cotton wool, in a box until the last moment
before it was screwed on to the plug by which it was suspended. It was never
touched by the bare hands, being held in its tissue-paper cover while the operation
of screwing on was performed. ‘The surface was so smooth and slippery that it was
difficult to keep fast hold of the globe while it was being screwed on; and when
suspended it presented the most beautiful mirror surface I have ever seen.
<« Lam supposing that the minimum of radiation is had from such a silver surface as
S has just been described; and it was extremely interesting to find that a marked
8 effect, in reducing the amount of radiation in vacuum from the silvered globe, was
§ produced by efforts to attain the highest possible degree of polish.
§ In calculating the emissivity from the recorded deflections of the galvanometer,
the first process was to obtain the “corrected deflection”* of the galvanometer.
s Secondly, a correction is applied to the numbers for the fact that the deflection
‘eproduced by the thermo-junction is not in simple proportion to the difference of
sp temperatures (defined by the air thermometer) between the two junctions.t Thus a
‘< series of numbers is obtained corresponding to the successive times noted, the
‘5 intervals being 5 minutes or 2} minutes, as has already been mentioned. From these
numbers I have calculated the value of the “emissivity,” or quantity of heat lost per
“5 Second, per square centimetre of surface, per degree centigrade of difference of
2 temperatures of surface and surroundings.
@ Let c be the capacity for heat of the cooling globe, S the surface, and (v — %) the
} difference of temperatures of source and surroundings at any time ¢. Then in the

= formula
E soil Lescrlt Meinias: ip
s 7, = Sv Vo)>

3 the coefficient e corresponds with the definition of “emissivity ” just given ; and this
formula is commonly taken to be a representation of the “law of cooling,” whether in
z air or in any other gas, or in vacuum, the range of temperatures dealt with being
Q moderate.