Reference to Table B annexed to this paper (which is
& Table VII. of the Greenwich series above described) shows very clearly that, with

P Sialatively few exceptions, chiefly to be found in the winter months, and among those
5 components the absolute values of which are very small, the mean monthly epochs of
maximum in the several five-year periods differ among one another by very small
A amounts, corresponding to intervals of time seldom as large as half-an-hour. As,
my however, the weight of the conclusions that may be drawn from these computations
= Aopends greatly on the internal evidence supplied by their greater or Jess consistency
© among themselves, it is important to dwell somewhat more on this point.
2 The requisite test will best be supplied by the values of » which indicate the times
= of maximum phase, and are, therefore, immediately dependent on the Sun’s action,
2 and should follow his position ; and this being subject to regular periodical change in
5 the course of the year, it would follow that if the values of » show corresponding
3 regular, or nearly regular, periodical variations, they may be regarded as affording
S yalid internal evidence of being trustworthy. The values of P, the total amplitude
iS or variation of temperature, which are certainly subject to influences of a much more
&. local and irregular character, will be liable to much greater and more irregular
5 changes.
5 A convenient and succinct summary of the facts bearing on this point will be found
3 ‘in the following Table, which shows for the series of 20 years the number of times
@ (reckoned as a percentage) in which the computed values of » for single months fall
E ‘in the several quadrants, the hours corresponding to which are as follows :—

Aa
Time of Maximum according to Value of pu falling in successive Quadrants.

‘ pponents Ist quadrant. 2nd quadrant. 3rd quadrant. | 4th quadrant.

%

-|Midnight to6 a.m.) 6 A.M. to noon Noon to6 pm. |6 P.M. to midnight

” » ¢ me ee oy ORM: 6am. to9 am. |9 A.M. to n¢n
” i ee a4 2 SUL ais 4 is 6 “A 6 y is 8 aM.
ee nan soo 11-8, 4.80... 1480, 4 6



624 LIRUT.-GENERAL R. STRACHEY ON HARMONIC ANALYSIS OF

TABLE showing frequency of the Value of y falling in the several Gaede in
different Months of the Year. Ist 2nd

| component. | component. 3rd components 4th component.