Optical Dispersion in Isotropic and Crystalline Media,

_ 28, In order to make our luminiferous medium afford an explanation of electric
Py nd magnetic phenomena, it will be necessary to assume its potential energy to be
wholly rotational, therefore quite independent of compression or distortion. When
ies are displaced through it, its motion will then be precisely that of a continuous
rictionless incompressible fluid, and therefore no rotational stress will be thereby

a .. in it.

is theory, in the absence of online ae sarebinial vibrations of the atoms, to take
he effective density of the primordial medium to be the same throughout all space.
the dependence of the elasticity on the length of the wave can only arise from the
sence of a structure of some sort in the medium, representing the molecular
angement of the matter, whose linear dimensions are comparable with the wave-
h of the disturbance that is propagated through it. The actual motion will now
of a very complicated character ; but the fact that a wave is propagated through
ithout change, in certain media (those which are at all transparent), shows that for
z the present purpose it is formally sufficient to average the disturbance into a
| continuous differential analysis, and thus take it to be a simple one as if there were no
‘molecular discreteness, but with an effective elastic modulus proper to its wave-length.
2 The expression for the potential energy of the medium will thus have to be of a
a | form that will vary with the wave-length, while it is still a quadratic function of
i coefficients of the displacements ; therefore we must now assume it to
nvolve differential coefficients of higher order than the first. This mode of
ir mulating the problem is what is led up to by the transparency of dispersive
ia i.e. by the permanence of type of simple waves travelling through them, and
the rotational character of the optical elasticity which is quite distinct from that
‘the molecular web, and, we may assume, of a different order of magnitude. It need
ite no surprise if in extreme circumstances, involving near approach to equality
h free periods of vibration, it is insufficient.
29.