Furthermore, as above observed, the electro-kinetic energy and the electrodynami¢
forces at which we have arrived are expressed in terms of the total current flowing
across any section of the wire supposed thin, and do not involve the distribution of
the current round the contour of the section to the neighbourhood of which it
confined, nor the area or form of the section itself. It therefore does not concern U
whether the wire is a perfect conductor or not; the previous argument from th
circuital character of the rotation (f, g, h) shows that the total current is still th


'

i THE ELECTRIC AHD LUMINIFEROUS MEDIUM. 759

same across all sections of the wire, and that the energy relations are expressed
in the same manner as before in terms of the total current.
| The electrodynamic forces between linear current-systems are thus fully involved
| in the kinetic-energy function of the ethereal medium. The only point into which
we cannot at present penetrate is the precise nature of the surface-action by which
the energy is transferred (just as in § 45) from the electric medium to the matter of
the perfect conductor ; all the forces of the field are in fact derived from their appro-
priate energy-functions, so that it is not necessary, though it is desirable, to know
the details of the interaction between xether and matter, at the surface of a con-
ductor.

|
xt

Q

S)

Fe Mathematical Analysis of Electro-Kinetic Forces and their reaction on the Material
2 Medium.

= 54. We have shown that the electro-kinetic energy of a system of linear electric
© currents may be expressed in the form
oD

r=)
iS

| ao = $242 (( ONS ds, 8, + E44 { oe da, dey

8 the velocity-system which they involve being sufficiently described by the set of
S velocity co-ordinates 4, t,... combined with the kinetic constraints derived from
3 the constitution of the ether. To mark that these quantities are dynamically
'S velocities, let us denote 4, ty... by de,/dt, de,/dt,.. . so that e,, ¢,. . . will be taken
£ as electric co-ordinates of position.