On setting the warm
water Y in place, the bubble closes in, and, just before it disappears, will begin to
float up the tube, disappearing, however, before it has risen more than 1 or 2 centims,
At the moment of its disappearance, and not before, does the observer of the tonometer
notice a sudden rise of the mercury ; this shows the freedom from residual undissolved
gas. The warm liquid is quickly removed, und the ice-cold liquid substituted ; this
causes the mercury in the tonometer to fall, and its observer O, calls aloud the
divisions as it passes them ; when the tension is approached at which it is desired to
observe the extension, the ice-cold water is removed, so that the cooling proceeds
more slowly, and while O, is carefully watching and calling the readings, O, makes a
momentary completion of the electric circuit, which results in the sudden reappearance


MECHANICAL STRETCHING OF LIQUIDS. 363

of a bubble of definite length, which he reads off while observer O, notes the height
to which the mercury in the tonometer has again risen. It is not always possible in practice to prevent the liquid from letting go its hold
too soon, and it often happens that the bubble forms in one of the bulbs, and not in
the tube, where only its volume can be read off, but this fact need not prevent an
observation of the volume from being made, for, if the observer O, only heats the
platinum wire for an instant, the liquid below it, which has been clinging to it,
separates, owing to its weight, and at once a bubble of hot vapour is formed, which,
by its greater pressure, causes the bubble in the bulb, which also is at a lower level,

0 close up and vanish. Thus the bubble can be instantly transferred to the place
ewhere it can be measured.
8 The method of liberating the bubble where it was wanted by means of the heated
§latinum wire was only hit upon after many other methods had been tried unsuccess-
Billy, but I had not foreseen that it would carry with it the advantage of enabling
‘the observer to transfer the bubble in the manner just mentioned. This was a piece
§f good luck.
5 Corrections to be applied to the Measure of the Bubble.
op
2 (1.) Correction for Capillary Curvature.—This was applied in the usual way, the
“ands being considered as hemispheres of the diameter of the tube, which was
220 millims.
3 (2.) Correction for Inequality of the Bore near the Wire.—This was determined by
oating the bubble when very small to a point in the tube 3 or 4 centims. below the
latinum wire, and then allowing the whole liquid to cool to a steady temperature,
Fhus forming a long bubble in a uniform part of the tube.