This can only be
ascertained either by comparing the results as given by such solutions with the results

obtained by experiment, or by observing the manner of motion of the fluid, as in my
experiments with colour bands.

* Ina paper on the “ Equations of Motion and the Boundary Conditions of Viscous Fluid,” read

before Section A at the meeting of the B.A, 1883, I pointed out the significance of this disability to be
tntegrated, as indicating the necessity of the retention of terms of higher orders to complete the
equations, and advanced certain confirmatory evidence as deduced from the theory of gases. The paper
was not published, as I hoped to be able to obtain evidence of a more definite character, ‘seh as that

which is now adduced in Articles 7 and 8 of this paper, which shows that the equations are incomplete,

except for steady motion, and that to render them integrable from rest the terms of higher orders must
be retained, and thus contirms the argument I advane e

ed, and completely explains the anomaly. FLUIDS AND THE DETERMINATION OF THE CRITERION. 153

The fact that these conditions are realized, under certain circumstances, has afforded
the only means of verifying the truth of the assumptions as to the boundary con-
ditions, that there shall be no slipping, and as to » being independent of the
variations of mean-motion. Verification of the Assumptions in the Equation of Viscous Fluid.

28. As applied to the conditions of PoisruiLtn’s experiments and similar experi-
Aents made since, the results obtained from the theory are found to agree throughout
e entire range so long as w’, ’, w’ are zero, showing that if there were any slipping
must have been less than the thousandth part of the mean flow, although the
wential force at the boundary was 0°2 gr. per square centimetre, or over 6 lbs. per
Bare foot, the mean flow 376 millims. (1°23 feet) per second, and

ic du/dr = 215,000,

fhe diameter of this tube being 0°014 millim., the length 125 millims., and the

Bead 30 inches of mercury.

a Considering that the skin resistance of a steamer going at 25 knots is not 6 Ibs.
r square foot, it appears that the assumptions as to the boundary conditions and

fhe constancy of » have been verified under more exigent circumstances, both as

egards tangential resistance and rate of variation of tangential stress, than occur in

apything but exceptional cases.

a Ewidence that other Solutions are possible.

5 29.