Verification of the Assumptions in the Equation of Viscous Fluid.

28. As applied to the conditions of PoisruiLtn’s experiments and similar experi-
Aents made since, the results obtained from the theory are found to agree throughout
e entire range so long as w’, ’, w’ are zero, showing that if there were any slipping
must have been less than the thousandth part of the mean flow, although the
wential force at the boundary was 0°2 gr. per square centimetre, or over 6 lbs. per
Bare foot, the mean flow 376 millims. (1°23 feet) per second, and

ic du/dr = 215,000,

fhe diameter of this tube being 0°014 millim., the length 125 millims., and the

Bead 30 inches of mercury.

a Considering that the skin resistance of a steamer going at 25 knots is not 6 Ibs.
r square foot, it appears that the assumptions as to the boundary conditions and

fhe constancy of » have been verified under more exigent circumstances, both as

egards tangential resistance and rate of variation of tangential stress, than occur in

apything but exceptional cases.

a Ewidence that other Solutions are possible.

5 29. The fact that steady mean-motion is almost confined to capillary tubes—and
that in larger tubes, except when the motion is almost insensibly slow, the mean-
a is sinuous and full of eddies, is abundant evidence of the possibility, under
rtain conditions, of solutions other than the singular solutions.
® Tn such solutions w’, v’, w’ have values, which are maintained, not as a system of
steady periodic motion, but such as has a steady effect on the mean flow through the
tube ; and equations (1) are only approximately true. The Application of the Equations of the Mean- and Relative-mean-motion.

30. Since the components of mean-mean-motion in directions y and z are zero, and
the mean flow is steady,

aw 0, onde 0, taiji = O°. . . . (86);
MDCCOXCV,.—-A. x


154 PROFESSOR 0, REYNOLDS ON INCOMPRESSIBLE VISCOUS

and as the mean values of functions of w’, v, w are constant in the direction of flow,

a) 9, 12) =o, 22) 0 :koned) Jat) aa

da ae?