Fig. 5.

els

These copper bars, B, B (fig. 6), dipped into oil contained in an iron pot P P

wrapped round with asbestos cloth to prevent loss of heat, and were supported from a

Fig. 6.

wooden cross-piece W W, which carried the thermometer 7’ 7, the guide G@ G for
the stirrer SS, and itself guided the handle H H of the stirrer, the up and down
motion of which was limited by two pins. Four thermometers of different ranges were used in these tests, and each of them


THERMAL EMISSIVITY OF THIN WIRES IN AIR. 377

was subsequently compared with a Kew standard thermometer. Considerable diffi-
culty was introduced into the carrying out of these comparisons from the fact that it
is, or, at any rate, was not three years ago, possible to obtain a standard thermometer
from the Kew Observatory to read, say, from 200° to 300° C., with a short wide
chamber at the base in which the mercury expanded below 200° C. All that could
be obtained was a long thermometer which had been carefully tested between 0° C.
and 100° C., and the remainder of whose tube had been simply calibrated for
uniformity of bore. The consequence was that when we desired to compare one of
our thermometers reading say, from 200° C. to 300° C., with the Kew standard
Ghermometer, their bulbs were very far apart when they were both immersed in oil so
that the top of the mercury column of each was just at the top of the oil; secondly,
‘Fhereas we had kept each of our thermometers with its bulb close to the wire whose
Fesistance was being tested, and, therefore, at a fixed distance below the surface of
the oil while it was being used, the Kew standard thermometer had to be continually
Tgwered further and further into the oil as the temperature rose in order that correct
feadings could be obtained.
6 By adopting, however, the following device, a satisfactory, although very laborious,
fmparison between the four thermometers and the Kew standard thermometer was
‘€nally carried out in the autumn of 1889, by three of the students of the Central
nstitution, Messrs.