In both cases these alloys, which had been
prepared by welding and not fusion, were perfectly tough and malleable, proving
that the high temperature necessary for melting these alloys enables them to pass into
a crystalline state. I then melted these two malleable alloys, H and I, by means of the oxyhydrogen


OF METALS OF THE PLATINUM GROUP, 641

flame in lime crucibles, and allowed them to cool in the crucibles.
65 germs. for each of these experiments. Upon examination I found both of these alloys to be malleable, so that the difference
between these results, as regards brittleness, is probably to be accounted for by the
fact that the slow cooling enables a fine network of crystals to form with resulting
toughness. 5

The process adopted for the determinations in the platinum-palladium series of
alloys was the following :—
~ Of each portion of the alloy to be analysed fifty grain determinations were taken
fd dissolved in nitrohydrochloric acid and evaporated nearly to dryness, these
rgsulting chlorides re-acidified with hydrochloric acid and again evaporated nearly to
Fryness.

@-The re-evaporated chlorides then dissolved up in water and the respective solutions
@ each determination diluted to about 150 ¢.¢, liquid capacity ; when cold the palla-
Gum was precipitated by mercury cyanide. The precipitate thus obtained was
slowed to stand for twenty-four hours in a slightly warmed atmosphere, as I have
found by experience that the precipitate of palladium cyanide comes down better
der these circumstances,
-4This precipitate, collected on filters, washed, dried, and ignited, gives the whole
Gantity of pure metallic palladium in the alloy.
5'To obtain the platinum from the mother liquors, from which the palladium cyanide
id been precipitated, these solutions were in each determiatnion evaporated to about
® c.c. capacity, and the platinum was then precipitated by ammonium chloride.
£ The precipitate of the double salt of platinum ammonium chloride was then
@llected on filters, dried, ignited, and weighed, the result being pure platinum.
<The small proportion of platinum remaining in the mother liquors was precipitated
éy means of pure metallic zinc as metallic platinum, which, washed and digested in
Weak hydrochloric acid, was collected, ignited, and weighed, the results being added
those obtained by the ammonium chloride precipitation. Ea) these results were checked by standards of pure palladium and of pure platinum
e)

I employed about

the proportion of—

Eelecinm 2. han hin the case of the alloys marked H,
LAL iat Ol ra
and also of—
Platinum 85].
x 3
Palladium) of): 216 } in those marked

‘the results of which confirmed the acenracy of the process employed.