Soc.,’ vol. 7, p. 349), and Professor J.
(‘Prehistoric Europe,’ p. 140), have contended that certain detrital deposits, spread widely over tht
South of England, could not be referred to ordinary marine or fluviatile agencies. The former attri-
bute them to a wave of translation: the latter (which I unknowingly overlooked in the aboye-nan
paper) to the agency of frozen snow-drifts during the Glacial period,

} Ibid., pp. 326-328,


OF WESTERN EUROPE AND THE MEDITERRANEAN COASTS, 905

, therefore, give only such particulars as are needed for the discussion of their
s, and for the purpose of generalizing the phenomena they describe.*

Though this rubble-drift in some of its phases sometimes simulates the characters
the other drift deposits, I found it impossible to reduce it to the terms of any of
ose others. Whereas these latter are spread out in beds more or less horizontal,
d keep to definite lines, this drift drapes the hills, follows divergent directions,

differs essentially in its main characteristics from that of the other drift deposits.
here is an entire absence both of marine and fluviatile shells ; the remains found in
e those of land animals and land shells alone, with traces of land plants, such
s in fact as could have been derived from a land surface, and from a land
ace only. Owing to their extreme friability, the shells are of rare occurrence, and
e most common one, the Pupa marginata, is so minute, that it often escapes obser-
on, Another feature to be noted, is that the bones of the Mammalia (which
to the ordinary Quaternary group), are distinguished by their very fragmen-
state and by the absence of wear, whether of the broken fragments or of the

* [The notices of the several detrital beds I have included under the term of “ Rubble-drift” have,
th the exception of the Loess, generally been incidental and limited to some one phase. With respect
that form of it represented by the Ossiferous fissures, an impression would appear to have prevailed
the subject was exhausted by the early researches of Cuvinr and Marcen pe Serres, for though so
h has been done of late years in explanation of the contents of the remarkable Prehistoric Caves in
tance and elsewhere on the continent, there have been no detailed descriptions of those Ossiferous fissures,
ith the exception of those of Gibraltar (1878), and slight notices of those of Nice (1887), since that of
8 LA Brcue in 1828; nor, with the exception of the short notice by M.