If the coils consist of two circles of radii a and ¢ (the former the greater), with their
centres coincident and planes making an angle @, and we send a current I sin pt
‘through the larger, there will be a couple tending to increase the angle 0.
i This has been proved experimentally by Professor THomson: its amount proves
‘to be

ik jh om “(sin Acos 0+ 3 cr sin 8 cos 8 (10 cos? @— 3)+... |:
5 The positions @=0 and 0= 7/2 are positions of equilibrium, the former being
“anstable and the latter stable.

5 By making the plane of the primary vertical and suspending the secondary inside
Ko as to be capable of turning round a vertical axis by means of bifilar suspension
‘vith @ = 0 as position of equilibrium, the deflection 6, when the alternating current
Gs passing, will give the intensity of current.

2 We might also get the intensity by suspending the secondary by a single thread
ind observing the time of a small oscillation about 6 = 7/2.

= If the moment of inertia of the secondary about the vertical be mk? it is not difficult
Jo show that the number of oscillations per second is

2 Qarpe? o [ce
8 J {eee + ra [1 = 3 (<) eA |

Pal

2
3 Professor Exrau Tuomson has devised other interesting experiments of which the
-Gollowing is an example : —

g A sheet of copper is placed so as to half cover an alternating magnetic pole. Upon
this, near the pole, is laid a hollow sphere of copper. The electromagnetic action
produces a couple so powerful that the friction of rotation is overcome and the sphere
‘Sis spun round.
£ The mathematical analysis for this case being complicated I have evaluated the

couples called into action in various combinations of hollow spherical and cylindrical
shells,

Tt is a known fact that in a spherical conductor no external field can give rise to
induced currents that do not circulate in concentric spherical shells. After a
preliminary theorem to the effect that there are no other families of surfaces which
possess similar properties, the case has been considered of an infinitely long, thin,
circular cylindrical shell in a field consisting of alternating currents parallel to its
axis. If the electrokinetic momentum of the primary field be expanded in harmonics over
the cylinder, it turns out that if all the terms of each harmonic have the same phase,

MDOCCXCIL—aA, 20


282 MR.