In new stars, we have accordingly the integration of two
spectra, and the spectrum we see will depend upon the densities and relative velocities
x of the two swarms. At one part of the mixed swarm the temperature must generally
be considerably higher than at another, in consequence of the greater number of
8 collisions oceurring locally, and the temperature would be lowest where the outliers
| were engaged.
| In new stars, therefore, it is possible for us to have the radiation spectra of vapours
- corresponding to sparse swarms of meteorites (nebulz, bright-line “ stars,” and comets
: & away from perihelion), and the mixed radiation of carbon, with the fluting absorption of
% metallic vapours, corresponding to bodies of Group II., and to comets nearer perihelion.
= That is to say, we may have the radiation lines of hydrogen and fluting of magnesium
‘= = at_ 500, plus the radiation of carbon and fluting or line absorption of manganese, lead,
= iron, &c., a condition which cannot occur when only a single swarm is in question. EB The mixed spectroscopic phenomena, which should be seen on the collision of
2 two swarms, were noted in my paper of November, 1887,* as follows :—‘‘ We shall, in
fo}

2 fact, have in one part the conditions represented in Class IIIa., and in the other, such
> a condition as we get in y Cassiopeiz.”

S In the present paper I give detailed discussions of all the Nove which have been
£  spectroscopically examined, and the results fully bear out these views.

& The Relation between Nove and Variables of Group I.

3 If the two swarms which produce a new star by collision are such that the mean
g distance between the meteorites in the resulting “mixed swarm” is about equal to
@ that between the meteorites in a body of Group IL., say « Orionis, mixed radiation
of carbon and metallic fluting absorption will preponderate in the spectrum observed. At the same time, the sparser portions of the swarms give us hydrogen radiation. This was the state of things in Nova Coron, a detailed discussion of which is given
later on.