In the stars which have been examined so far, the
dark parts of the spectrum, which at first sight appear due to absorption, are shown
to be most likely caused by the defect of radiation in that part of the spectrum
between the blue end of the continuous spectrum from the meteorites and the bright
band of carbon.”

In such cases as these just described the carbon fluting at 474 appears broken off
from the remainder of the spectrum. Speaking of LaLaANDE 13412, I remarked§ :—* The bright part of the spectrum
extending from 473 towards the blue with its maximum at 468 is, I would again
suggest, the carbon band appearing beyond the continuous spectrum”; and, again
referring to 2nd Cygnus, “The bright band in the blue at 473 is most probably the
carbon band appearing bright upon a faint continuous spectrum, this producing the
apparent absorption from 486 to 473.” In 8rd Cygnus the same thing occurs, a dark
band appearing from about 488 to 473, which is doubtless nothing more than the dark
space between the end of the continuous spectrum and the carbon fluting at 474. I
also remarked, concerning the origin of the discontinuous spectrum|| :—‘ I have already
shown that when the meteorites are wide apart, though not at their widest, and there
is no marked condensation, the spectrum will extend farther into the blue, and there-
fore the flutings in the blue will be quite bright; in fact, under this condition the
chief light in this part of the spectrum, almost indeed the only light, will come from
the bright carbon. Under this same condition the temperature of the meteorites will

* “Comptes Rendus,’ vol, 83, p. 172.
t+ ‘Astr. Nachr.,’ No. 2681.

} Bakerian Lecture, 1888, p. 31.

§ Bakerian Lecture, 1888, p, 35.

|| Bakerian Lecture, 1888, p, 54,



PRODUCE THE PHENOMENA OF NEW STARS. 447

not be very high ; there will, therefore, be little continuous spectrum to be absorbed

in the red and yellow.”

| There can be no doubt, therefore, that the spectra of Nove are similar to the spectra
of bodies of Group II., and the later species of Group I., as far as carbon is concerned.