Pacific,’ vol. 2, No. 11, Nov, 29, 1890,


SPECTRUM OF THE GREAT NEBULA IN ORION, 83

intimate connection between these objects, if established by further observations,
would place the bright-line stars first in the order of development. The D, line
appears in the central condensation of a number of bright nebulz, and with sufficient
light would probably be seen in many of them, and this line is also predominant in
most of the bright-line stars.”

One of the main points of this paper is to show that the relationship indicated
between the planetary nebule and bright-line stars also holds good for such a nebula
as that of Orion. The bright lines seen in the visual spectra of the two classes of nebule have long

deen known to be identical, and a comparison of the Westgate photographs with the
Spsults obtained by Professor PrckerING, and the more recent work of Gorarp,* and
Bf Professor CamppeLt, at the Lick Observatory, on the spectra of the planetary
§ebule, + has shown that the similarity also extends to the photographic region.
& The fact that some of the nebular lines were apparently coincident with lines in the
bright-line stars, was recognized at an early stage in the reduction of the Westgate
photographs, and in the preliminary note I wrote as follows: “It is a very striking
fet that some of the chief lines are apparently coincident, although the statement
ii made with reserve, with the chief bright lines in P Cygni, a magnificent photo-
‘Braph of which I owe to the kindness of Professor ProkerInG; it is one of the
‘Alenry Draper Memorial photographs.”

The bright lines here referred to were those of hydrogen, and lines at 4025 and
-4471. All these have since been photographed at Kensington, in the spectrum of
2 Cygni, and there is no longer any doubt as to their identity with bright lines in
he nebula. Additional bright lines in the spectrum of P Cygni, photographed at
Kensington, are also seen in the nebula, as shown in the following table —

Dn
&
P|
g Taste II.—Comparison of Orion Nebula with P Cygni.
5 é
&
3 Orion nebula.