According to WATERSTON the
ratio of specific heats should be (as for mercury vapour) 1°67 in all cases. Again,
although he was well aware that the molecular velocity cannot be constant, there
is no anticipation of the law of distribution of velocities established by MaxwELt. A large part of the paper deals with chemistry, and shows that his views upon
that subject also were much in advance of those generally held at the time. :

The following extract from a letter by Professor McLEop will put the reader into
possession of the main facts of the case :—

“Tt seems a misfortune that the paper was not printed when it was written, for it
shadows forth many of the ideas of modern chemistry which have been adopted since
1845, and it might have been the means of hastening their reception by chemists.

“The author compares the masses of equal volumes of gaseous and volatile elements
and compounds, and taking the mass of a unit volume of hydrogen as unity, he
regards the masses of the same volume of other volatile bodies as representing their
molecular weight, and in the case of the elements he employs their symbols to indicate
the molecules.

“In water he considers that the molecule of hydrogen is combined with half a
molecule of oxygen, forming one of steam, and he therefore represents the com-
pound as HO, He does not make use of the term “atom ” (although he speaks of
atomic weight on p. 18, but thinks it divisible), and if he had called the smallest
proportion of an element which enters into combination an atom, he would probably
have been led to believe that the molecules of some of the simple bodies contain two
atoms, and he might have adopted two volumes to represent the molecule, as is done
at the present time. The author calls one volume or molecule of chlorine Cl, one
volume or molecule of hydrogen H, and one volume or molecule ‘of hydrochloric acid
H,Cl,. If he had regarded the molecules as containing two indivisible atoms, these
bodies would have been represented, as now, by the formule Cl,, H,, and HCl
respectively, all occupying two volumes. §15 shows how near he was to this
conception.