Acad. des Seiauees,'
vol. §, 1822), alter malting the assnmptions that when « permauent current of lignid
posses through a tube the veloeities of the molecules are parallel to the axis of the
tie dul were ab the sides (Corurre, * Bull. des Sei. Phys.,’ 1888). If, inateud of considexing a tube of indefinite length, and the loss of pressure taking
place between isyo sevhions of sich a tube, we teal with a system consisting of two
reservoirs, connected by x tobe of finite length, the difference of pressure measured
being that bethyeen the tio reservoirs, then the above formula will ti general not apply
tniless suitable corrections bea introduced, This arises from the fact that the observed
(difference of pressure will, in general, nob be ontively spent i overcoming visuosity
within the tubs, for, besides this cause of loss of pressime, the following Lave to be
taken inte aecoant =— :

(L.) Tf the liqnid flows through the tube with a finite velocity, at the entranoe ta
the tube pressure will be spent in imparting kinetic energy to the liquid,

2.) Owing to modifications of the stream-lines, especially at the entrance, pressure
Will he spent t6 some small extent in overcoming friction outside the tnbe, iu the
neighbourhood of ite ends. Lt is possible to arrange the experimental eonditions se that corrections for these
diatuvbing causes muy be neglected, The observations made by Potseurte, with
long and tarrow tubes, are in perfect uecord with the preceding formula, In these
experiments the velocity of efflux was so simall that the kinetic energy correction was
tuappresinble, ind, Owing to the length anil narrowness of fhe tubes, the pressire
spent in friction ontside the tubes was negligible in comparison with that spant
within them. When, however, the velocity of elfiix is considerate, and the tube ia
as short 98 that of our plischrometer, the magnitudes of these disturbing eflects lave
to be asvertained and, if qevessary, correetions have to be applierl.

(1.) A correction for the kinetic energy imparted to the liquid was first deduced
by Hawnwnacn (*Poww, Aim 109,385, 1860), His conelusion may be thus stated.
17, in the formula for ait indefinitely long tube, 7 be taken as the length of 2 finite
tube, wud p the difference of presaure between the reservoirs whicl the tihe connects,
then the yaloo of this correction, which bos to be applied to the fornnila, 7s

eee 2

— pV/2
in which p is the density of the liquid.