Benzene may therefore be said tu be comparable
| other substances at equal slope, but it has still to be explained why the
rature of benzene is higher than that of its higher homologue at equal slope,
for this temperature relation is the reverse of what holds for almost all simply-
constituted liquids. Wt follows, therefore, from the above general dixonssion, (1) that 4 comprehensive
y of the physico-chemical relationships of a series of substunces can only be
ped by studying the variation of the physical property over as wide a range of
perature us possible; (2) that the gmphiea! or algebraical representation of the
lis so ubtained will indicate whether particular members of a series are exceptional
fwiour aa compared with their congeners ; and (8) if such exceptional behaviour
it may be detected either in the viscosity-mapnitude or the temperataye, no
whether we use the boiling-point, a corresponding temperature, or a temper-
of equal slope ws the condition of comparizon. Ornnr Meriops or Opraintna anp Comparryu Viscostty-MAUNITUDINS.

aan might at first sight be supposed that the most suitable method of obtaining
3 tliysico-chemical relationships would haye heen to deal with the curves expressing the
PHlitious between temperature aud the molecular viscosity (yil*) or the molecular
psity work (nd"), instead of concerning ourselves, as we have done, with the
ves for y, the viscosity coethgient.
‘Hrom the fact, however, that molecular agereyution alleets the values of d? wd c! Hub extent which cannot at present be satislactorily estimated, we coveluded that.
& ‘be question should, in the first tmstance, be approached hy deducing slopes from the

3B tyes for the viscosity coefficients, aod not trom eurves involving the quantities d*

S park v7,

E We have, however, made a series of comparisons using curves for molecular

ity, Uheovetical values of d? being used in obtaining them. ‘Tie result, of thts

is, that the constants im Svorre’s formals, and the coelivients Band y i ble
iftel formula, the values of the temperarares of equal slope, aod the values

U Wf the invléculay viscosity read off at these temperatimes, alihough differing in

Minitude from those already given, exhibit amongst themsclyes practically the sume

rblationships as have already been desoribed.

same conclusions apply to the method in which curves for molecular viscosity

rk are employed. MDCCCXCIV.—A, 4x


TIONS
THE RELA’
DGER ON

THORPE AND J.