By trial we have found that if slopes be chosen which satisfy the relationship

2 tf} (oe Rene «
(Ba, + My = cgltta F PY AD  (Sy tty cylin * Myra) — Bo.

(Su,- Nye oglns ‘ main +1) — (Sz, ies ein + Vypalinn ie &e.,

condition for generality is fulfilled, the slopes obtained are almost the same, and
aré chosen according to a system, as the constants employed are ¢ and », which
in the formule of the particular liquids. At all ttiese conditions af comparisons, however, the stoichiometric relutionships
wire no more definite than »t temperatures of equal slope. We do not propose,
Uineofore, ii the present state of the question, to give details of the results olitained.
above discussion, however, may serve to show how if is posatble hy means of
lope coniparisons, and with a simple formula like that of Suorrr’s, to insure that
sresnlts obtained shall be general, even when x varies.
fact. that the aboye somewhat complex methods lead to no better physico-
aiiical relations than the simple method of equal slopes, ray also be token aso
blir indication that, at least for liquids in which the molecular complexity does
change with the teniperature, in a formula of the type employed, if it could
© made to agree more closely with actual observations, the constant mw would
the same. his again indicates that at temperatures of equal slope the results

lusions relating to the Generality of the Results Obtained at the Temperatiures of
qual Slope, and to the Comparisons in which w Different Slope is Employed
Soe ecceh Laqued.

1, From the preceding discussion if is evident that over such temperature-ranges
# our observations extend the results obtained wt o particular value of the slope
ay be regaled aa general for all liquids, with the exception of the aleohals
ere the rolationships vary slightly as the slope alters,

I is further indicated that iu the present stute of the question equal slope is
WE Diost suitable condition at which to compare the viscosities of different liquids. Iv the preceding comparisons we have been concerned with the values of the
Hous viscosity magnitudes corresponding with points on the viscosity curves


696 MESSRS. T.