These models require hundreds of adjustable parameters to fit the short-term data,
including the geometry and depth to ductile creep (i.e. locking point) and coupling coefficients
for each individual fault, and estimates of long-term slip rates on block boundaries. Lamb & Smith [15] argued that the block models of short-term deformation are unsatisfactory
because they require information on deformation at vastly different timescales ranging from
decades to hundreds of thousands of years, and they provide no insight into the driving forces
of this deformation, assuming the long term as essentially having a close correspondence with
the short term. Furthermore, the premise of the block models is undermined by the fact that


earthquake earthquake

x

(a)

aver age
ambient
stress/strain

stress/
stress/ strain

strain drop
drop

time

(b) rotation dilation [=

strike-slip

—42.5°

173.5° 174° 174.5° 173.5° 174° 174.5°
2016 M7.8 Kaikoura Earthquake coseismic strain
10+
-10 5 0 5 10

Figure 1. (a) Earthquakes are part of a cycle of slow accumulation of elastic stress/strain over 10 s to 100 s years in the
interseismic period (referred to in this study as short-term deformation), and then sudden redistribution or elastic rebound of
this stress/strain as permanent fault slip during an earthquake over seconds to minutes, followed by post-seismic adjustments,
creating over many earthquake cycles the long-term deformation. (b,c) show the rotation and dilation (change in area/unit area)
components of strain field as a consequence of elastic rebound during the M7.8 2016 Kaikoura Earthquake in northern South
Island, New Zealand, (see figure 2a for location of maps). Significant anticlockwise rotation and extensional dilation occurred in
azone up to 30 km from the fault ruptures, converted into about 10 m of reverse dextral slip on a complex set of fault ruptures in
amuch narrower zone. Strain field calculated from co-seismic displacement field based on InSar satellite observations spanning
the earthquake (John Elliott, pers com 2017). (Online version in colour.)

the models can be shown to be unstable if there are no a priori estimates of long-term slip rate
on surface faults [13,14], so that different estimates drive the block model solutions in different
directions [16].