The relationship between the quantum state and an actual measurement outcome indicated by
a classically describable apparatus introduced by Heisenberg appeared later in Dirac’s textbook
Quantum Mechanics as follows: ‘If a state wy, and an observable a are such that, when an
observation is made of the observable with the system in this state the result is certain to be
the number a, we assume this information can be expressed by the equation

abr = ayy. (4.1)

Conversely, when an equation of this type is given, we assume it has the physical meaning that a
measurement of the observable a with the system in state y, will certainly give for result the
number a or that the observable a has the value a for the state w;, to use a classical way of
speaking, which is permissible in this case’ [11, p. 30]. Accordingly, due to complementarity—
manifest in the mutual exclusivity of differing experimental contexts—a determination of the
quantum state at one moment in general precludes its exact specification in the future due to
the linearity of the time-evolution transformation of the quantum state. Thus, the formalism
of quantum mechanics naturally incorporates the fact that context is an essential aspect of
measurement: every measurement of a set of observables corresponds to the sort of conditions
under which it is made (i.e. the specific context) and some of these can be mutually incompatible,
as well as sequences of measurements which can exhibit order-dependence. Two total experimental situations are incompatible if and only if they correspond to
different contexts, i.e. different equivalence classes in the sense of measuring sets of physical
magnitudes symbolized by non-commuting (operator) observables. Bohr put this as follows.
‘These circumstances find quantitative expression in Heisenberg’s indeterminacy relations which
specify the reciprocal latitude for the fixation, in quantum mechanics, of kinematical and
dynamical variables required for the definition of the state of a system in classical mechanics
itself.