The present memoir contains a description of
the installation, together with the principal results obtained therewith up to the time
of my leaving Leeds in 1912, when the apparatus was removed to the Imperial
College of Science and Technology, London. My previous work (Joc. cit.) had enabled me to put forward a new theory of the
mechanism of hydrocarbon combustion, based on an experimental study of the whole
range of conditions between slow combustion at relatively low temperatures and
explosive combustion (including detonation) at initial pressures of between 270 and
1180 mm,

It was important, from several points of view, to carry the matter still further by
examining the behaviour of certain explosive mixtures (which may be regarded as
“crucial mixtures” in reference to the various theories of hydrocarbon combustion
recently under discussion) when exploded under high initial pressures. In addition to the above, important information has been gained as to the
distribution of oxygen between methane and hydrogen or carbon monoxide, respectively,
when mixtures containing insufficient oxygen for complete combustion are fired under
high initial pressures ; from such facts can be deduced the relative affinities of these
gases for oxygen in flame combustion, as well as certain conclusions concerning the
mechanism of the combustion of hydrogen and of carbon monoxide. Finally, a study of the pressure curves obtained in a series of experiments in
which methane, hydrogen, and carbon monoxide, respectively, were separately
exploded with sufficient air to complete the primary oxidation in each case, has
definitely proved that there is no direct (if any) relation in such cases between the
relative times required for the attainment of the maximum pressure and the relative
affinities of the respective combustible gases for oxygen. The points adumbrated in the foregoing paragraphs will be discussed more fully in
the paper.—W. A.B.

Part L—Apparatus AND ExperIMeNTAL Mernop,

The apparatus was specially designed by Prof. J. E. Peraven, F.R.S., for the
accurate investigation of the mechanism of gaseous combustion under high initial
pressures, using mixtures of known composition whose constituents have been
prepared on a laboratory scale in a considerable degree of purity.