However, probability in quantum mechanics does not “3
enter, as in statistical mechanics, as a practical necessity to describe a large number of systems :8
that, in principle, could be described by the laws of motion without introducing probability, but ig
as a principal necessity following from the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. : a

The synthesis between mechanics and probability, realized by quantum theory, introduced :&
a change of perspective on Hilbert’s sixth problem which, in its original formulation, was {2

clearly dependent on the systematization of the existing body of knowledge in mechanics and
in probability and not on the analysis of its relations with a new probabilistic formalism whose :
emergence was totally unexpected by Hilbert or by anybody else in 1900. One can say that, with ig
the birth of quantum theory, Hilbert’s sixth problem was split into three different questions:

(i) Axiomatize classical probability. 3
(ii) Axiomatize the new (quantum) probability. a
(iii) Clarify the connections between the two. Moreover, in the term ‘axiomatization’, used in the statement of the above-mentioned problems, =
one should distinguish two different meanings: a2)

(i) Description of the mathematical models. : s
(ii) Deduction of these models from physically meaningful axioms. [8

(a) Some historical preliminaries

It is a curious historical fact that the description of the mathematical model of the new (quantum)
probability achieved a satisfactory setting before the same was achieved by classical probability. In fact the first paper I know on the former problem is due to the physicist Jordan [4] and is almost
simultaneous with a joint paper of Hilbert himself, together with von Neumann and Nordheim
[5], which collected the notes of a Géttingen seminar (held in 1926) devoted to the description of
the mathematical structure of quantum theory. Dirac’s (1930) book [6] is the first one to describe the quantum mechanical formalism, but it
uses the language of distributions—a theory that at that time had not yet been mathematically
systematized and therefore created some diffidence in the mathematical community.