Intermittent and
stochastic RESs thus provide little control and cause much uncertainty in operation. Because of the intermittency and stochasticity and the consequent sub-maximal
utilization due to varying loading factor (e.g. wind farm loading factor broadly varies
between 25% and 35%), the renewable generation capacity will have to represent a
significantly larger fraction of the total installed capacity and be supported by energy
storage (to compensate the lack of generation from RESs at certain times) to ensure
continuity and security of supply as well as provision of voltage and frequency support
to the network if required.

(iii) Proliferation of PE-based ‘efficient transmission facilitating’ technologies, including
increased use of HVDC lines of both line commutated converter (LCC) and
predominantly voltage source converter (VSC) technology with increasing use of multi-
modal converters (MMC) in both meshed AC networks and as a DC supergrid. Furthermore, there will be an increased presence of static and active (PE-based) shunt
and series compensation of long and short AC transmission lines, as well as increased


deployment of FACTS devices to improve the controllability and flexibility of the existing
transmission network.

(iv) New types and different operational patterns of load with typically greater flexibility
connected at customer premises, including heat pumps, PE-interfaced loads, efficient
lighting as well as growing use of EVs characterized by spatial and temporal uncertainty.

(v) Increased monitoring at all voltage levels and acquisition of a large amount of data. The
data are typically multidimensional, multiscale, spatially distributed in the form of either
time series (with sampling rates ranging from milliseconds to hours) or event-triggered,
often incomplete or noisy due to sensing and/or communication problems.

(vi) Tendency towards, and requirement for, increased efficient energy supply resulting in
increased consideration of different energy carriers (multi-energy networks).

(vii) Requirement for increased information security (cyber security) due to a wide range :
of integrated diverse ‘intelligent’ PE devices and information and communication [=
technologies (ICTs). 23

(b) Increased uncertainties in power systems :8

One of the main attributes of the above systems is the increase in uncertainties associated : 4
with system operation and modelling. There are generally two forms of uncertainty associated iS
with any system modelling and analysis: (i) aleatory uncertainty (irreducible uncertainty [eB
and variability), which represents the inherent random behaviour of a system commonly :B
modelled by probabilistic distribution functions and propagated by probability-based approaches .
(sampling, analytical methods, probabilistic chaos expansion); (ii) epistemic uncertainty
(reducible uncertainty and state of knowledge uncertainty), which models the uncertainty in
parameter estimation due to data shortages or model simplification.