The
data are typically multidimensional, multiscale, spatially distributed in the form of either
time series (with sampling rates ranging from milliseconds to hours) or event-triggered,
often incomplete or noisy due to sensing and/or communication problems.

(vi) Tendency towards, and requirement for, increased efficient energy supply resulting in
increased consideration of different energy carriers (multi-energy networks).

(vii) Requirement for increased information security (cyber security) due to a wide range :
of integrated diverse ‘intelligent’ PE devices and information and communication [=
technologies (ICTs). 23

(b) Increased uncertainties in power systems :8

One of the main attributes of the above systems is the increase in uncertainties associated : 4
with system operation and modelling. There are generally two forms of uncertainty associated iS
with any system modelling and analysis: (i) aleatory uncertainty (irreducible uncertainty [eB
and variability), which represents the inherent random behaviour of a system commonly :B
modelled by probabilistic distribution functions and propagated by probability-based approaches .
(sampling, analytical methods, probabilistic chaos expansion); (ii) epistemic uncertainty
(reducible uncertainty and state of knowledge uncertainty), which models the uncertainty in
parameter estimation due to data shortages or model simplification. The major sources of uncertainties in power systems grouped based on the system components
from which they originate are identified below:

(i) Network-based uncertainties

— Network topology.

— Network parameters and settings (e.g. settings of tap-changing transformers,
temperature-dependent line ratings, line and cable parameters).

— Network observability and controllability.

(ii) Generation-based uncertainties

— Generation pattern and mix (size, output of generators, types and location of
generators, i.e. conventional, renewable, storage, PV generation at the distribution
level).

— Output uncertainty of renewable generation due to forecasting errors.

— Models and parameters (conventional and renewable generation and storage
technologies, individual and aggregate models of wind farms and distributed PV
generation).

(iii) Load-based uncertainties

— Time and spatial variation of load (e.g. location of EVs in particular).

— Load composition (mix).

— Load models and parameters, both frequency and voltage dependence of load,
including conventional types of loads and rising number of new PE-interfaced loads
and efficient lighting.

— Load forecasting uncertainty.

(iv) System controls-based uncertainties

— Parameters of generator controllers (excitation and voltage controllers, governors,
damping controllers, PE interface controllers).


— Parameters of network controllers (secondary voltage controllers, controllers of 4 |
FACTS devices and HVDC controllers).

(v) Operating condition-related uncertainties aa!

— Contractual power flows as a consequence of different market mechanisms and is
Price. LS
— System faults (type, location, duration, frequency, distribution, impedance of system 12
faults and disturbances).

(vi) ICT-related uncertainties

— Noise, measurement errors, time delays, loss of signals, bandwidth, missing data.

(vii) Weather/climate-related uncertainties

— Wind speed, wind direction, temperature, humidity, solar irradiation, tidal/wave : =
conditions. : =

a

Each form of the uncertainty listed above has a specific representation and quantification method. : =
Therefore, the selection of the appropriate method to model relevant uncertainty comes after the 2
identification of the type of the uncertainty. For some of these uncertainties, it may be possible S
to produce a sufficiently accurate model based on historical values or data tolerance values from : a
manufacturers.