More importantly, though, it : 8
may not even be necessary to accurately model all uncertainties in the system, as many may have 7m

little impact on the system phenomena of interest, despite adding considerable computational
burden when modelled more accurately. It is important to mention that, in spite of the trend of
increasing monitoring in power systems in general, the transmission companies still have little
experience in collecting standardized network performance data such as outage rates and repair
times.

(c) Key challenges in stability studies of future power systems

Considering the above structure of future power systems and increased levels of uncertainties,
the key research challenges for stability analysis of future power systems can be grouped into
three broad areas:

(i) Efficient use of and reliance on existing and newly acquired data through deployed local
measurement devices and two-way communications-enabled meters and global wide-
area monitoring systems (WAMS) for state estimation, static and dynamic equivalents
and control (including real-time control). This implies efficient data management (signal
processing, aggregation and transmission), reliability of, and reliance on, ICT networks,
as they are essential for both static and dynamic observability of the system.

(ii) Modelling for steady-state and dynamic studies of

— Large interconnected networks with generation mix, FACTS devices and short- and
long-distance bulk power transfers using HVDC lines.

— Clusters of RESs (generation and storage) of the same or different type.

— Parts of, or the whole, LV and MV distribution network with thousands of integrated
RESs.

— Demand, including new types of energy-efficient and PE-controlled loads, heat
pumps, customer participation and behavioural patterns, EV, etc.

— Centralized and distributed storage technologies (i.e. virtual storage plant) for
provision of ancillary services.

— Interconnected critical infrastructure systems, ‘system of systems’ and, as a
subset of these, networks with different energy carriers and self-sufficient energy
modules/cells.


(iii) Design of advanced controllers and control structures including ls |

— Design of supplementary controllers based on WAMS to control, including real-

time control, and stabilize a large system or parts of the system (the structure and 38
extent of which may vary depending on connected technologies and the aims of 1s

control) with uncertain power transfers and load models and stochastically varying
and intermittent PE-connected generation, demand and storage, i.e. reduced inertia
systems.

— Design of new risk-limiting control systems/structure, including consensus,
distributed or hierarchical control, adaptive and close to real-time control for power
networks with fully integrated sensing, ICT technologies and protection systems. Considering the evolving power system with increased uncertainties and abundance, and :3
growing measurement data and challenges identified above, the key question that needs : =
answering is: Are the tools currently in use for system modelling, analysis and control adequate, and 3B
if not, how should we modify them, or what other tools should we be using? : =
This paper addresses the above question by proposing a probabilistic approach to power 8
system stability studies. It presents an integral approach to probabilistic stability analysis of [3
power systems, including small and large angular stability and frequency stability, and provides : a
guidance for handling uncertainties in power system stability studies and some illustrative 13
examples of the most recent results of probabilistic stability analysis of uncertain power systems. : 8
an

2.