Low-carbon generation from renewables such as wind
and solar power will create the need to counteract their variable and partly unpredictable power
injections through operational measures so as to maintain the instantaneous production-demand
balance (i.e. system frequency), generation outputs and network transfers within capacity limits

1Congestion cost is driven by network transfer limits and is equal to the extra cost of operation due to network capacity
constraints, while reliability cost is driven by the demand curtailment associated with network capacity and is equal to the
expected unsupplied demand times the value of lost load, VoLL.


and the required security margins in generation and transfer capability (i.e. reserves and network
redundancy). Secondly, distribution networks will transition from mostly passive networks, where
the control problem is resolved at the planning stage by designing for the worst-case peak-
demand scenarios, to active systems, where new information and communications technologies
(ICT) and controllable distributed energy resources, including storage and flexible demand,
will provide real-time supply-demand balance to efficiently integrate local renewables while
also interacting with the transmission system [2,3]. Thirdly, the transmission system itself will
become much more active through: (i) new controllable and flexible technologies, such as
flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) [4] and high-voltage DC (HVDC) systems [5], that can
control power flows through the network without changing power injections/ withdrawals; (ii)
system integrity protection schemes (SIPS) that can enforce rapid increase/reduction of power in
importing/exporting areas after a network outage occurs by, for instance, curtailing generation

and/or demand [6]; and (iii) various wide-area monitoring and control equipment supported : =
by ICT technologies that will increase the capability of system operators to monitor and control : S
electricity assets in real time and throughout wider areas through increased communication : 2
[7,8]. Last and more importantly, demand will be controllable and end-users will become active : &
participants in system and market operation, thereby opening up opportunities for aggregating _
and coordinating consumers and system needs (e.g. for system balancing and congestion : Ss
management), taking advantage of flexibility from smart appliances (e.g. dishwashers and tumble Dh
dryers), electric heaters, batteries, etc. [9,10]. Also, electrification of other energy demands from : S
the heating/cooling (e.g. electric heat pumps and heating ventilation and air conditioning :s

equipment) and transport (e.g. electric vehicles) sectors can further expand the opportunities to
control electricity loads and coordinate them with system needs, owing to their intrinsic virtual
storage capabilities [11,12].