Last and more importantly, demand will be controllable and end-users will become active : &
participants in system and market operation, thereby opening up opportunities for aggregating _
and coordinating consumers and system needs (e.g. for system balancing and congestion : Ss
management), taking advantage of flexibility from smart appliances (e.g. dishwashers and tumble Dh
dryers), electric heaters, batteries, etc. [9,10]. Also, electrification of other energy demands from : S
the heating/cooling (e.g. electric heat pumps and heating ventilation and air conditioning :s

equipment) and transport (e.g. electric vehicles) sectors can further expand the opportunities to
control electricity loads and coordinate them with system needs, owing to their intrinsic virtual
storage capabilities [11,12]. In the low-carbon smart grid context outlined above, and focusing on the system as a whole
and the transmission level, a change in system frequency due to system level supply-demand
imbalance can be resolved through the combined action of various fast generating units and loads
(e.g. disconnection of non-critical load from dishwashers and/or refrigerators [10], contribution
from distributed battery systems, including those from parked electric vehicles, connection of
distributed back-up generation, etc.), while network congestions can be resolved through changes
in topology and/or impedances (e.g. changing FACTS set points) rather than through costly
changes in the output of generation. This increase in operational flexibility can be used to address
both real-time operation and time-ahead scheduling, where strategic decisions are made in
advance (e.g. a few hours ahead relative to real time) to deal with the uncertain evolution of wind
and solar power generation, and so adapt to different realizations that may happen in real time. In this context, generation reserves can be coordinated with demand response, charge/discharge
actions from storage and even network topology reconfiguration so as to deliver the needed
balancing services requested in real time due to wind/solar forecast errors and their potentially
high variability [9,13].