The interesting
feature of these proofs is that they are obtained by manipulation of the principles, without
assuming Hilbert spaces from the start. ({50], p. 16

Among these principles, the purification principle plays a particularly, even uniquely, important : 2
role, as an essentially quantum principle: =
s

The main message of our work is simple: within a standard class of theories of information fa
processing, quantum theory is uniquely identified by a single postulate: purification. The aes
purification postulate, introduced in [57], expresses a distinctive feature of quantum theory, 72
namely that the ignorance about a part is always compatible with the maximal knowledge Dw

of the whole. The key role of this feature was noticed already in 1935 by Schrédinger in : =

his discussion about entanglement ([58], p. 555), of which he famously wrote ‘I would not : 3

call that one but rather the characteristic trait of quantum mechanics, the one that enforces 1S

its entire departure from classical lines of thought.’ In a sense, our work can be viewed iS

as the concrete realization of Schrédinger’s claim: the fact that every physical state can be
viewed as the marginal of some pure state of a compound system is indeed the key to
single out quantum theory within a standard set of possible theories. It is worth stressing,
however, that the purification principle assumed in this paper includes a requirement that
was not explicitly mentioned in Schrédinger’s discussion: if two pure states of a composite
system AB have the same marginal on system A, then they are connected by some reversible
transformation on system B. In other words, we assume that all purifications of a given
mixed state are equivalent under local reversible operations. ([50], p. 2)

Chiribella, D’Ariano and Perinotti also speak of ‘the purification postulate’, and they refer to
the remaining informational ‘postulates’ as ‘axioms’, because ‘as opposed to the purification
“postulate”, ... they are not at all specific [to] quantum theory’ ([50], p. 3).