One was Ernest Gruening, a US Senator from Alaska who followed the


schools. It is the first attempt of its kind
PP. 6, 9-11, 39-48
disclosed in the investigation of the electrical industry
‘Trade Commission. The investigation has been judicially
all evidence being obtained from the industry itself... pp. 6-10
is to capture (1) professors in the universities and colleges, (2)
colleges, high schools and graded schools, (3) textbooks
pp. 11, 12, 39-48
of principal concern are Economics, Law, Political Science and
t and all social sciences—engineering and business management. :
secondary. -pp. 39-48 : :§

the Somer force and of textbooks especially in universities will, it 1B
d, insure “straight economic thinking” and the possession of so- $
ect information” and thus mold the mind not only of this generation
ding generations. ‘Two results of great financial value to the utili- : 3
bs

Dw

of the various courts,” “lawmakers in city councils, state legis- 18
and in Congress,” ‘‘members of public utility commissions, tax =

ns or other administrative bodies, local, state and Federal,” [2

ng attorneys, engineers—in short, all public officials—will be so DG

ned as automatically to oppose genuine regulation, public ownership,

he valuation, equitable rates, @t¢...........ecceeee eee pp. 45, 46
public opinion will be created so that voters will elect officials who will

e such policies of government, local, state and national..pp. 41, 42, 46

er of the alleged “correct information” desired taught is already
d by false and misleading statements of fact, as well as opinions on
policy, found in reports and expert testimony of prominent university
who are now discovered to have been in the pay of the private

x pp. 12-14, 16-37

vhs organizations, the National Electric Light Association, The
e of National Utility Associations, and the various State Com-
of Public Utility Associations, the utilities have the money, the men, the
and the influence to accomplish their purpose unless stopped now.
itutes a challenge to American educators who are the natural leaders in
e to maintain the integrity of our educational institutions.pp. 34, 35, 37-39

mittee on Cooperation with Educational Institutions” is the special
through which the N. E. L.