For every mapping s of the
semigroup, any set X stabilized by s (e.g. any natural subsystem where s acts) recurs in the
ensemble, so even after arbitrary time -s: X > X will realized. Thus, the entire semigroup
S with its space of dynamical possibilities (Q,5(A)) recurs indefinitely often. If one has a
good model for understanding its natural subsystems and the transitions between them,°”
this can be applied repeatedly, in spite of the fact that they may only occur transiently in a
particular component.

(b) Example 1 continued: cell cycle and multicellular differentiation

Let C be any finite automaton cell model including the cell cycle which results at some point
in division, for example using the simple cell-cycle model of [101] modelled as a Petri net in
figure 12.55 Here phosphorylated cdc-2 (cdc2-P) and cyclin oscillate in synchronization with the
cell cycle; in sufficient concentration cdc2-P sets off a cascade of events that results in the cell

*’This refers not only to scientific or experiential understanding, but also to hierarchical coordinate systems obtained by
Krohn-Rhodes decompositions, using say the partial order 2/’R of weak control hierarchy (as in theorems 6.1 and 6.2).

58We remark that in this Petri net for the cell cycle there are non-trivial automorphisms (symmetries). One gets an
automorphism of the Petri net via the (external) symmetry of order 2: on places, (cde2 amino acids) (cde2-P cyclin), ie.
swap cdc2 and amino acids and simultaneously swap cdc2-P and cyclin; whereas, on transitions, swap as follows (517) (416). This induces an (external) automorphism of order 2 on the six-state automaton, as evident from figure 12b.


(a) (b)

Figure 12. (a) Petri net model of the cell cycle based on a differential equation model of reactions as described by Tyson [101]. :3
(b) Finite six-state automaton associated to this Petri net whose state set consists of all configurations reachable from the initial 1p
configuration with one token at the place representing MPF (active or inactive). :8

division.