It is thus possible
tO give o dotipite reason for the apparently anomalous position of Che curves of the
lowest acids, Tn the cuse of the normal parnliling and their monohalogen derivatives
We are dealiog with liquids whieh in wl likeihood contain siteple molecwes, the
molesalar weights ofthe gus and the liquid ave here the sume, and bere the curves are
disposed in accordanes with the ordijary gaseous nidleculur werghts,

Thy the case of the ucids, however, the effect of the complexity of the liquid molecule
is superadded, the moleaylar weights of gas and liquid are no longer the same, anil
tle curves no longer follow one another in the order of the theoretical molecniar
weights, bot their disposition evidently depends upon the weights of the liquid
molesmles, Although this reasonioge indicates why the viscosity carve of formic
5 weld should lie to the right of the alles, ib does nob expliia why the ove

gy for formic should lie to the riylit of that for acetic neil, beenuse trom the measure-
iS} = aT - - . . . E monte of Ramsay and Suceuos, the solecular weight of liquid acetic uid ib al
3a all temperatitves greater than thatof formic ucid, and ils yiseusity at any temperature

Would thug be expected to be yreater instend of being less than that of Remio aeicl. It is noticwitle fioe the numbers given by Rawsdy and Srxmnps that with che
exception of veetic acid the complexity of the first four avids diminishes with rise ia
moleoulir weight, If the snomaloue position of the viscosity curves is due solely to
the effect of conmplusity, it is indicated that acetic atid is really no exeeptiion to this
rile, Tf, however, tie resvills obtained by the surfuce-atorgy wethod of estimuting
complexity are valid, it must be admitted that the anomulous position of the curve
for formic avid, with relation to that of acetic acid, is due to some peculiarity in (he
constitution of formic neid, which may be associated with the fact thut it is the initial
member of the homologous series, and does not contain a CH, or w CH, group.


560 MESSRS. T. E, THORPE AND J. W. RODGER ON THE RELATIONS

Anhydrides. Acetic anhydvide and propionic wuhydride were the only members of this serivg
which were examined.