In the classical homogenization theory, this condition is known
as the macro-homogeneity condition, or Hill-Mandel theorem [20,31,35,36], which provides the link
between the microscopic and macroscopic scales. In the following, the macro-homogeneity condition is enforced to obtain the incremental
energy density (3.7) that matches the effective behaviour of the prestressed lattice at first- Vj (L)
and at second- W»(L) order. Thus, the homogenization scheme is based on the following steps:

(i) an incremental deformation gradient L is considered, so that the incremental energy
density for the unknown effective continuum is defined by equation (3.7);

(ii) following the Cauchy-Born hypothesis, equation (3.3), the incremental displacement field
for the lattice is prescribed by the given tensor L and the periodic vector q* necessary to
enforce the equilibrium of the lattice;

(iii) with the solution of the lattice in terms of L (the periodic vector g* becomes in solution a
function of L) the incremental energy density is calculated for the lattice;

(iv) the two incremental energy densities in the continuum and in the lattice are matched, so
to obtain the components of the incremental elastic tensor defining the effective solid.


(i) Determination of the periodic displacement field for the lattice

By substituting condition (3.3) into equation (2.21) and pre-multiplying by Zo!, the incremental
equilibrium becomes

Zo'K(P) Zo G* + Zo'K(P) GL) =Zo'f, (3.8)

where the right-hand side can be written more explicitly using the partitioning introduced by
equation (3.22) as
i
f' +4 f
pof
f° +f? +f" +f"

The fact that the only non-vanishing forces are assumed to be the internal forces transmitted at
the unit cell boundary by the neighbouring cells implies f’ = 0. Moreover, as the displacement
field satisfying the Cauchy—Born hypothesis generates internal forces in the infinite lattice that are
periodic along the direct basis {a,,a2}, any single unit cell is subject to external boundary forces
that are anti-periodic. Consequently, f! = —f", f? =—f' and f” =f" — ft —f", so that the term
Zo'f vanishes and equation (3.8) becomes

Zolf=

Zo'K(P) Zo @* = —Zo'K(P) A(L). (3.9)

The solution of the linear system (3.9) provides the incremental periodic displacement field q*
internal to the lattice for every given L.