The values were normalized
to the amount of the total RNA.

(f) Quantification of the absolute transcript numbers
The copy number of the transcripts (X;) was quantified using the following method [19]:

CG

X= oF T, (2.1)
where C; represents the mapped reads on a transcript i with a length L; (in nt), C = 7; C; is the sum
of all mapped reads within a RNA-Seq dataset, whereas T is the length of the transcriptome in
base pairs [19]. From the reads and the amount of the added spike-in standard, we determined the
number of molecules of spike-in standard in nt. T was calculated by converting the total mRNA
mapped reads in each RNA-Seq experiment into molecules of mRNA (in nt) using the number
of molecules of spike-in standard (nt) and normalized per cell number quantified by fluorescence
activated cell sorting (FACS). The length of the transcriptome, T, in base pairs, is calculated as follows:

(i) The amount (nanograms) of added spike-in standard was converted into molecules
spike-in in nt using the molecular weight and nucleotide length of the spike-in and the
Avogadro number.

(ii) The total amount of mRNA to which the spike-in was added was converted into nt using
the molecules of spike-in (nt) and the sequencing reads mapped to the transcriptome and
spike-in standard.

(iii) The total mRNA length (nt) was divided by the cell number quantified by FACS to
calculate the total length (T) of the trasncriptome per cell. 1.81 x 10° + 2.4 x 107, 7.84 x
108 + 1.21 x 107, 1.52 x 10° + 2 x 107 and 4.72 x 108 + 7.3 x 107 was the total number of
cells in LB, MM, under heat or osmotic stress, respectively.

(iv) Finally, to calculate the copy number of each gene, we multiply the rpkMd values of each
gene C;/CL by T (equation (2.1)).

(g) Differential gene expression and GO analyses

The number of raw reads unambiguously aligned to ORFs in both RNA-Seq and RPF datasets,
for each condition, were normalized by the median of the total number of reads aligned to all
ORFs, which gives more stable normalization [20] and is more suitable for differential expression
analysis than other normalization approaches using total number of reads aligned to all ORFs
(reads per total mapped reads, rpM, or fragment per total mapped reads, FPM) [21]. For
comparison between different genes, the number of the aligned reads was normalized by the
length of the ORF and the median of the total number of reads aligned to all ORFs (reads per
kilobase of ORF per median of the total mapped reads, rpkMd).