This, however, is by no means the
case when the current is reversed every two seconds, the value of the logarithmic
decrement being then more than three times as great as it is when the wire is not
magnetised ; and even when the stress has been reduced to 0°104 it still exerts a
sensible influence. The experiments also show clearly that, at any rate for short periods of time, the
longer the time of action of the magnetising stress, the greater is the effect on the
internal friction, for otherwise in Experiment III. there would be a greater logarithmic
decrement when the vibrations are 16 in 16 seconds than when the vibrations are 8 in
16 seconds, whereas the contrary is the case. Nevertheless, this increased effect on
the internal friction which accompanies increased time of action does not extend
beyond a period of a few seconds, for the increase of logarithmic decrement is
considerably greater when the vibrations are 8 in 16 seconds than eight times the
increase of logarithmic decrement when the vibrations are 1 in 16 seconds.

{Added Sept. 29th, 1887.—Experiment III. has shown that there is a definite
frequency of reversal of magnetising stress for which the damping effect is a
maximum, and it appeared to be of interest to ascertain more exactly what is the
frequency producing the greatest effect with the particular wire examined, and also

* See Experiments IT. and III.

+ The clockwork arrangement must have interrupted the current at least ten times in one second.
{Later experiments showed that the diminution of the effect of an interrupted magnetic stress as the
interruption-frequency increased arose from the fact that the difference between the vibration-frequency
of the wire and that of the interruptions increased. |

} The increases of the logarithmic decrement are ‘00346 and ‘00024 in the two cases respectively.
[September 25, 1887.—It was afterwards found that the results of Experiment III. are to be attributed
almost entirely to differences between the vibration-frequency of the wire and the interruption-

frequency. }


8 MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS AND

whether this special value represents a property of the material or is dependent on
the accidents of dimensions of the wire and moment of inertia of the vibrator.