PU Received March 8,—Read April 19, 1888,—Revised January 5, 1889.

‘ly the preliminary note on the Radio-micrometer which I had the honour to present
to the Royal Society last year (1887), I promised to complete, as far as I might be
‘able, the development of the instrument, and, in case of any great improvement in the
proportions of the parts, to exhibit an instrument in the improved form. In the
resent paper I have shown how the best sizes of the several parts may be determined,
d how the best result may be attained.
2 I must, however, first refer to the fact that on February 5, 1886, M. p’ARsonvAL
Boao at a meeting of the Physical Society of France, an instrument called by him
he Thermo-galvanometer, with which mine is in all essential respects identical. The
Sinvention of an instrument for measuring radiant heat, in which one junction of a
“closed thermo-electric circuit suspended in a strong magnetic field is exposed to
2ellfeations is due entirely to M. p’ArsonvatL, and I need hardly say that it was in
Zionorance of the fact that he had preceded me that my communication was made
to the Royal Society. As soon as I became acquainted with M. p’Arsonvat’s work, I
Btook the earliest opportunity of admitting his claim to priority (see ‘ Nature,’ vol. 35,
“SP: 549).
3 I venture, however, to think that, although the differences between M. pD’ARSONVAL’S
Zthermo-galvanometer and my radio-micrometer are essentially differences of detail,
othat even at the time of my original communication I had succeeded in producing the °
most sensitive instrument of practical utility, with the exception perhaps of the
bolometer, which had up to that time been constructed for the measurement of radiant
energy. As I hope to be able to show in the present communication that I have
still further improved the proportions of the several parts, it may perhaps be fortunate
that I was not aware that so able and ingenious a physicist had already made an
instrument with the properties which I regarded as of so much importance, viz., the
low resistance and small moment of inertia of the circuit, the small capacity for heat
of the junction, the quickness and dead-beat character of the indications, and its
freedom from extraneous influences.