These rela-
tions may be translated into a statement that, in the winter season, the luni-solar
variation of declination due to new moon is similar to the luni-solar variation of
horizontal force due to the one-eighth phase ; and the luni-solar variation of horizontal
force due to new moon is similar to the luni-solar variation of declination due to the
seven-eighths phase. In other words, the luni-solar variation of declination due to
any phase of the moon is similar to the luni-solar variation of horizontal force due to a
phase later by one-eighth of a lunation. In the summer and autumn seasons it is, on
the other hand, the luni-solar variations of horizontal force that precede by one-eighth
of a lunation the similar variations of declination ; this will be seen by comparing
figs. 11 and 12 with figs. 7 and 8, and figs 15 and 16 with figs. 3 and 4 reversed,


MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE. 17

The fact of harmonious relations of this kind being found to subsist between results
derived from long series of observations of two independent instruments, we cannot
but regard as strong testimony to the reality of the phenomena now brought to light ;
neither can we refrain from claiming for such results a modest place amongst the
phenomenal laws of terrestrial magnetism that must ultimately stand in the same
relation to a physical theory of terrestrial magnetism that Kepirr’s laws stand in
towards the theory of gravitation.
11. At this stage the question was put—With what approach to completeness does
the typical variation in each case represent the four actual variations from which it
was derived, or how much of a mean lunar variation is there in these over and above
Sihe typical variation? Subtracting (say) f.9(/) from the observed variation at new
moon and full moon, and adding it to the observed variation at first quarter and last
E quarter j in such a way that the Oth, 6th, 12th, and 18th hours of f,,9(h) are compared
2 Swith the 0th hour of new moon, first quarter, full moon, and last quarter respectively ;
the Ist, 7th, 13th, and 19th hours of f,..(h) with the 1st hour of new moon, first
& quarter, &c., respectively, and so on, we obtain four sets of residual variations, each
commencing with the 0th hour of the lunar day ; and, taking the mean of these four,
we obtain the residual lunar diurnal variation that is left after appropriately elimi-
nating the typical variation for the four quarters.