S (a) The most effective winds were mainly concentrated in the western half of the North
pea, and averaging the pressure gradients at points C and D is an obvious source of error.
‘sGeneral reasoning shows that if more weight were given to the gradients at point C the
sprediction of the initial surge peak would have been more accurate. This weighting would
“also have the effect of increasing the subsequent excessively high prediction, but it has
“been shown that the outflow through the Straits of Dover is a probable neutralizing factor.
< Meteorological conditions are conceivable, however, whereby a raising of level at
SSouthend due to the North Sea winds could co-exist with winds in the English Channel
Buch as to prevent an outflow.
‘2 Sufficient data should now be available for a return to the integration method over the
"Swhole of the North Sea, together with the addition of a station in the English Channel and
ne or more stations off the coast of Norway. The former should allow for the Straits of
‘Dover effect, and the latter are indicated as being desirable owing to the fact that much
“sof the water which entered the North Sea came from the north-east Atlantic Ocean.

2 (6) With excessively large surges the damping ratio is not sufficient to eliminate oscilla-

‘Ztions of appreciable magnitude occurring after the initial surge, and for a complete

ssexplanation of surge phenomena the comprehensive oscillatory theory must be used.

— (c) Simplification is desirable whenever possible, but it should not be allowed to over-

~ride primary factors.

3 (d) It seems probable that apparent failures of the earlier methods were due to the
existence of ‘external surges’ which at that time may not have been fully appreciated.

2 Moreover, local barometric effects obeying a statical law do not seem to have been
A allowed for. Corkan (1948, 1950) has illustrated the existence of these ‘external surges’,
the main characteristics of which are that they are propagated southwards into the North
Sea at a speed approximately equal to that of the diurnal tide, and travel around the shores
of the sea in an anticlockwise direction. He was led to the opinion that they did not decay
appreciably, probably because loss of energy due to friction is balanced by decreasing
depth.