We shall use sometimes this way of speaking,
‘but it is necessary to remember that behind such words, as e.g., “ picking up at
random a direction, all of them being equally probable’’, there is a definition of the
measure appropriate to the fundamental probability set and its subsets. I want to
emphasize that in this paper the sentence like the one taken in inverted commas is
no more than a way of describing the fundamental probability set and the appropriate
measure. The conception of “ equally probable ” is not in any way involved in the


STATISTICAL ESTIMATION 339

definition of probability adopted here, and it is a pure convention that the state-
ment

“ For the purpose of calculating the

probabilities concerning chords

in a circle, the measure of any set
“ In picking up at random a chord, (A,) of chords is defined as that of
we first select a direction of radius, | means no | the set (A’,) of points with co-
all of them being equally probable | more and | ordinates x and y such that for
and then we choose a distance be- { no __ less | any chord A, in (A,), x is the

tween the centre of the circle and than _| direction of the radius perpendicu-
S the chord, all values of the distance lar to A, and » the distance of A,
4 between zero and r being equally from the centre of the circle.
"g probable.” (A,) is measurable only if (A’,) is
2 so.”
a

o However free we are in mathematical work in using wordings we find convenient,
g as long as they are clearly defined, our choice must be justified in one way or another.
= The justification of the way of speaking about the definition of the measure within
2 the fundamental probability set in terms of imaginary random experiments lies in
£ the empirical fact, which BorrKmewicz insisted on calling the law of big numbers.
‘4 This is that, given a purely mathematical definition of a probability set including
"3 the appropriate measure, we are able to construct a real experiment, possible to
@carry out in any laboratory, with a certain range of possible results and such that if
‘git is repeated many times, the relative frequencies of these results and their different
4 combinations in small series approach closely the values of probabilities as calculated
éfrom the definition of the fundamental probability set. Examples of such real
random experiments are provided by the experience of roulette (BorTKIEwICz,
£1917), by the experiment with throwing a needle* so as to obtain an analogy to the
"= problem of Buffon, and by various sampling experiments based on Tippert’s Tables
£ of random numbers (1927).
3 These examples show that the random experiments corresponding in the sense
‘described to mathematically defined probability sets are possible. However,
‘efrequently they are technically difficult, e.g., if we take any coin and toss it many
& times, it is very probable that the frequency of heads will not approach 3.