If/ = 2 the solution obtained is

‘© limited to the case where there exists a sufficient set of statistics for 9., 03,... 6, and

§ then again there is an infinity ‘of solutions.

> Methods were indicated by which it is possible to find among all possible solutions

= of the problem the one giving the confidence intervals which are shorter (in a sense

‘2 defined in the text) than those corresponding to any other solution.

‘4 The confidence limits 6 (E) and 6 (E) may be looked upon as giving a solution of

B the statistical problem of estimating 0, independent of any knowledge of probabilities

& a priori. Once 6 (E) and 6 (E) are determined corresponding to a value of « close

8 to unity, say « = 0-99, the statistician desiring to estimate 6, may be recommended

4 (1) to observe the values of the random variables %, . . . %,, (2) to calculate the

S corresponding values of @ (E) and 6 (E), and (3) to state that the value of the para-

meter 0, is within the limits @ (E) = 0, = 9 (E). The justification of this recommendation lies in the fact that the three steps

g described are equivalent to a random experiment which may result either in a correct

& or in an erroneous statement concerning the value of 6,, the probability of a correct

8 statement being equal tox = 0-99. Thus the statistician following the above recom-

2 mendation is in a position comparable with that of a game of chance with the

g probability of winning being equal to « = 0-99. 3 ;

& The method followed to determine the confidence limits for a single parameter
permits an obvious generalization for the case where the number of parameters to be
estimated simultaneously is greater than one. E I

Three previous publications concerning the confidence intervals for which I am
either partly or wholly responsible (Nryman, 1934, Maruszewski, NeyMan, and
SupiNska, 1935, Nevman, 1935, c) refer to the simplest case where the number of ran-
dom variables and that of the parameters to be estimated are equal to unity.