The working standards of the Bureau are
normally compared with the “ Témoins ” of the International Metre, which are in turn
compared with the Prototype Metre itself. The working standards have, however,
on at least two occasions been compared directly with the Prototype. The comparison
of the composite gauge Y’ with the Imperial Standard Yard was performed in one stage,
and therefore the final accuracy of the yard determinations is probably of the same
order as that obtained in the metre determinations in view of the increased number of
comparisons involved in the latter.

(d) Determination of Refractive Index of Air.—Since the determination of refractive
index of air is incidental to the main determinations of length and is, in fact, resolved
into a calculation of the ratio of the length of an X-gauge in terms of wave-lengths in
air to its length in terms of wave-lengths in vacuum, an estimate of the probable error
of the value found for the refractive index can be made directly from the information
already given. It should be remembered that the refractive index was calculated after
the application of the fixed corrections to the lengths of the X-gauges ; of these fixed
corrections two are common to the determinations both in air and in vacuum, viz.,
the correction from optical to mechanical length and the “ reflection ” correction, and
the probable errors of the mean values of these corrections may therefore be omitted
from the calculations. The individual probable errors concerned in the calculations of
refractive index were :—

Average for mean values of the X-gaugesinair . . ... . +£0-014 2,
Mean correction to axial length of Lsinair ........ +£0-004
Average for mean values of the X-gauges in vacuum .... +0-013
Mean correction to axial length of Lgin vacuum... .. + 0-008
Mean correction tol atmosphere... .........., + 0-007
Mean correction for residual pressure . . 2... . . . . .) +0-002

The combined probable error due to these individual errors is + 0:021 dn; the average
length of the X-gauges is 1-49 x 10° Ay and therefore the proportional error is -- 1-4
parts in 10°, so that the estimated probable error of the mean value of refractive index
is + 0-000,000,014.