WOODS ON STUDIES OF THE

10 4S 20x10"
Load (Ent/sg.cm. tnitial area)

Fic. 1.—Load/extension curves for Cotswold wool in water at increasing temperatures (after SPEAKMAN).
(For dotted curve, see footnote, p. 356.)

100 200 300 406 500 600 700 G00
Time mins. steam scale

Fic. 2.—Time/extension curves for human hair and Cotswold wool under constant load in steam and in a
1% aqueous solution of NaOH. (The fibre (a), on account of its slow rate of extension, is referred
to a time scale half that for the remaining steam curves.)

—— Cotswold wool in steam ; — — — human hair in steam.
— + — Cotswold wool in NaOH;..... human hair in NaOH. STRUCTURE OF HAIR, WOOL, AND RELATED FIBRES. 337

loaded with a suitable small weight, placed in a steam chamber or a vessel containing
the caustic soda solution, and its extension followed by means of a travelling microscope. Whatever the load, and therefore whatever the rate of extension, since the only
difference between the various curves lies in the fact that the more heavily loaded
fibres stretch more quickly, the limiting extension at rupture was always roughly the
same. (The fibre which gave the curve marked (a) broke at an extension just over
80% ; this was probably due to some irregularity in diameter, aggravated by incipient
decomposition during the prolonged time (1500 minutes) for which it was necessary
to keep the fibre in the steam chamber under the small load used on this occasion.)
The wool fibre which gave the curve (b) extended as far as 104% in 90 minutes without
breaking. The changes brought about in the load/extension curve of hair by steam or water at
higher temperatures are for the most part permanent ; the curve which is character-
istic of the normal fibre in water at ordinary temperatures, and which leads to rupture
at extensions between about 50%, and 70%,,* can never be recovered by any subsequent
treatment, It is clear that there are features in the structure of the normal hair fibre
which interfere with the attainment of the maximum extension of which it is capable. This maximum extension is reached only when the restraining influence is removed
by the action of reagents such as steam and caustic soda solutions.