As would be expected from the fact that super-contraction arises out of side-chain
modification in @-keratin, the maximum observable effect increases with the percentage
extension at which the relaxation is carried out. Fig. 13, which has been prepared
to show the relation between a number of phenomena, includes a curve showing the
increase of super-contraction in steam as the relaxation extension is increased. (For
this curve, each fibre of Cotswold wool was stretched in cold water to the extension
given by the ordinates, exposed to the action of steam for 2 minutes at this extension,
and then steamed back, with the stretching force removed, as far as it would go.) It
is remarkable how the changes in the direction of the curve correspond to those which
are found in various “ restricted ” load/extension curves, and which we have ascribed
above to the onset of the intramolecular transformation in the three elastic phases.
(The two load/extension curves given in the figure are adapted from the normal restricted
load/extension curve of Cotswold wool in water at ordinary temperatures (see fig. 3),
and the load/extension curve of human hair stretched slowly in 1% aqueous caustic
soda solution (see fig. 10). The Hooxn’s law region in both curves has been omitted.)
The fact that we have to leave out the Hooxn’s law region of the load/extension curves
in order to bring out the closeness of the parallel is evidence of the strongest kind that
both super-contraction and permanent set are associated, not with the «-keratin of the normal
unstretched hair fibre, but with the transformation of «-keratin into B-keratin by the act of
stretching beyond the Hooxx’s law region ; while the correspondence between the super-


STRUCTURE OF HAIR, WOOL, AND RELATED FIBRES. 363

contraction curves, the permanent set curves, and the restricted load/extension curves
affords still another powerful argument in favour of the three-phase theory put forward
above. Horizontal lines have been drawn in the figure to mark the effective boundaries
between the three phases (at roughly 20%, and 45%, extension, ¢f. fig. 9), and it will be
seen that there can be no doubt that the existence of these phases is one of the basic
facts in the study of hair structure. Load (§mjem? initial area)
it iB ood 17 —-19x105<-Colswold wool
6 7 ex10F + Auman hair

10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Yo
Super-contraction or set (Yo of initial length)
Fic. 13.—Showing the relation between the phases of the load/extension curve and the development of
super-contraction and permanent set.
— — — Permanent set (human hair); .. . . super-contraction with steam only (Cotswold wool) ;
—+— Permanent set (Cotswold wool) ; super-contraction with NaOH and steam (Cotswold
wool) ; © Load/extension curve for human hair in NaOH; + Load/extension curve for Cotswold

wool in water.