The setting of the crystalline part
alone, however, is insufficient to hold up permanently the contraction (in steam or hot
water) of the main body of the fibre. Fig. 23, Plate 8, illustrating the “ spreading of
the spots” caused by the uni-directional attack of steam on the keratin crystallites, is
a typical X-ray photograph of steam-set hair, while figs. 21, 22, Plate 8, X-ray photo-
graphs of wool and human hair “ generalized” by treatment (in the stretched state)
with caustic soda, serve also to illustrate the point that the side-chain changes accom-
panying temporary or permanent set, though clearly detectable photographically, are
inadequate to destroy the main outlines of the keratin chain system.*

is It is perhaps hardly necessary to point out that the interpretation given here of the principles under-
lying temporary and permanent set in wool applies equally well to the “ permanent wave ” now fashionable
in human hair. STRUCTURE OF HATR, WOOL, AND RELATED FIBRES. 369

Tt may appear somewhat surprising that the g-photograph remains “set” after
exposing the stretched fibre to steam even for a few minutes only, and that subsequently
the «-photograph does not return during the process of either contraction or super-
contraction; but this cannot but be due to the fact that the well-crystallized part of the
fibre substance, the part from which the X-ray “ erystal” photographs arise, con-
stitutes a relatively small fraction of the whole, as is evident from the long X-ray
exposures required. The molecular chains in this well-crystallized part lie parallel
and in the closest possible juxtaposition and are therefore in a condition most favourable
for the formation of new side-linkages ; they will naturally succumb first to the process
of “setting.” The change does not, however, lead immediately to widespread per-
manent set, because the three elastic phases, K,, K, (the most crystalline phase), and
K, (see fig. 8), are both in series and in parallel, so that the super-contraction effect in
the less-crystalline keratin is bound to predominate for a time. (Compare fig. 15,
which shows how the setting of K, lags behind that of K,.) The conflict between the
contraction of the less-crystalline and the setting of the more-crystalline keratin is best
revealed in X-ray photographs of hair stretched and then contracted in steam. Through-
out both the extension and contraction of normal hair, the X-ray photographs, whether
« or 8, show parallel alignment of the keratin crystallites ; in either direction the intra-
molecular transformation proceeds so smoothly as not to interfere seriously with the
crystalline orientation ; but whereas extension in steam maintains the parallelism of
the crystallites, subsequent contraction in steam causes the “spots” of the “set”

B-photographs to spread out into ares.