Summary.

(1) From the examination of several hundred X-ray photographs of mammalian
hairs, spines, ete., under a great variety of conditions, and comparison with the results
of numerous collateral studies, the following conclusions have been drawn concerning
the molecular structure and elastic properties of the keratin complex, which is the
basis of all such epidermal growths.

(2) The X-ray fibre photograph of stretched hair (8-keratin) is analogous to that of
natural silk (fibroin), whether stretched or unstretched. Stretched hair is therefore
built of extended polypeptide chains, while unstretched hair («-keratin) must consist of
the same chains in a folded state, so that the elastic mechanism is that of a reversible
intramolecular transformation.

(3) By means of “ quadrant photographs” it is shown that the molecular complex
of «-keratin stretches reversibly by about 2°% before the onset of the main transformation.

(4) The limiting elastic extensibility of all mammalian hairs is about 100° of their
initial, unstretched length. By combining this fact with the X-ray data exact quantita-
tive agreement is found by assigning to «-keratin intramolecular folds of the nature of
linked pseudo-diketopiperazine rings which open up on extension to produce the normal
zigzag protein chain.

(5) These folds (“secondary folds”) are transverse to the general direction of the
side-chains.

(6) The side-chains of §-keratin are roughly coplanar and serve to unite neighbouring
main-chains by a variety of cross-linkages, including both co-valent and electro-valent
bonds. ‘This leaves still another fold (the “ primary fold ”) in the main-chains even in’
the extended configuration and reduces the average length of an amino-acid residue to
rather less than is found in fibroin,


STRUCTURE OF HAIR, WOOL, AND RELATED FIBRES. 393

(7) The structure of @-keratin is one of flat polypeptide “ grids ” adhering by virtue
of attractions between (=CO) and (=NH) groups of the main-chains of neighbouring
grids. The normal equilibrium form of these grids involves folds (the “secondary
folds”) transverse to the grids. The general intramolecular elastic mechanism’ of
keratin thus falls into line with that of simpler molecules, though the usual possibilities
are enormously enhanced by the mobility of both main-chains and side-chains and by
longitudinal attractions between electro-positive and electro-negative centres in the latter.

(8) The available chemical analyses of keratin are in close agreement with the concept
of an average volume per amino-acid residue of 3-38 x 4°65 x 9-8 A., as deduced
from the 8-photograph, the first dimension being the average length of a residue. the
second the thickness transverse to the side-chains, and the third the average width in
the plane of the side-chains.