HUDSON ON OPTICAL ROTATORY POWER. Summary.

(a) Measurements have been made of the absorption, circular dichroism and rotatory

dispersion of a series of 9 bornyl and menthy] xanthates and related compounds, which

had been prepared and partially investigated by TsCHUGAEFF.

(b) The seven xanthates show two absorption bands, the weaker band at longer
wave-lengths being attributed to the —CS—S group and the stronger band at shorter
wave-lengths to the >CS group. These bands cannot be represented by the equations
of Kerrener and Hetmuonrz, BreLEecKi and Henri, or Kun and Braun, but
conform closely to a new equation which has been developed to express the fact that the
absorptions are symmetrical on a scale of wave-lengths.

(c) The circular dichroism in the first absorption band follows a similar course to the
absorption, the “ dissymmetry factor,” (c, ~ ¢,)/e, being approximately proportional to
the frequency. Since, however, the circular dichroism of the second band is of
opposite sign, this proportionality disappears where the two bands begin to overlap.

(2) The anomalous rotatory dispersion of the xanthates in the region of transparency
can be expressed with great exactness by two terms of Drupr’s equation, namely,
a low-frequency term to represent the partial rotation of the first absorption band,
and a high-frequency term of opposite sign to represent the combined effect of the second
absorption band and of the hypothetical bands in the SoHuUMANN region. Alternatively,
a separate term can be used to represent the partial rotation of the second absorption
band, and an inverse square term of the form k/? (with a zero value for the smaller
dispersion constant, as in Drupr’s equation for quartz) to represent the partial
rotations of the bands in the ScuuMANN region.

(e) The anomalies of rotatory dispersion in the region of absorption cannot be
expressed by the equations of NaTanson, or of Kunn and Braun, but have been repre-
sented in a more satisfactory manner by means of a new equation, corresponding with
the new equations used to represent the absorption and circular dichroism of the band.