These,
however, are points which are being further examined by us.

(10) In one series of experiments with a moist 2CO +O, medium, in which the glass
explosion tube of 1-2 cm. internal diameter had been drawn with a longitudinal glass
“ridge” along its whole length, and projecting 1 mm. into it, neither the speed nor the
frequency of the helical motion of the luminous “ head ” and “ tail ’’ of detonation were
at all affected thereby, the phenomena occurring precisely the same as in an ordinary
tube of same internal diameter without such “ridge ” (compare Photographs Nos. 20
and 26). Hence it is highly improbable that the “ spin ” causing the sinuous character
of the flame front, and the banded appearance of the detonation flame behind it, can
be due to a helical rotation of the gaseous medium as a whole.

(11) Any supposition that the “spin” is primarily due to some stationary wave
system set up in the gaseous medium as the result of vibrations (due to distortions) along
the explosion tube itself seemed disposed of when it was found that the insertion of a
2-5 cms. plasticine junction between two successive glass sections of the explosion tube
had no effect whatsoever upon either the frequency or intensity of the phenomenon
observed in a moist 200 + O, detonation (vide Photograph No. 27). Taking the foregoing facts and circumstances as a whole, as constituting substantially
the principal experimental evidence so far available, they seem to be consistent with
Professor Levy’s third suggestion (c), namely, that the observed “ spin” in detonation
is due, not to the medium rotating as a whole, but to the “ head” of detonation travelling
spiral-wise as a wave-front through the medium in the tube at the observed flame
speed, the banded appearance of the “ tail ” being ascribable to periodic waves along
itself.

”


INVESTIGATION OF FLAME MOVEMENTS IN GASEOUS EXPLOSIONS. 379

The Flame Photographs. (Plates 16-20.)

In describing individually the relevant flame photographs, the following additional
symbols will be used :—

f = frequency per second of the phenomena causing the banded appearance of the
flame ; p = pitch of its helical path in ems. No. 14.—Detonation in a moist 2CO +O, Medium in a Tube of 2°55 ems. internal
diameter. V, = 1,795 metres per sec., p= 7-5 ems., f = 24,000.