However mph

plausible such an argument might seem to be 3°

superficially, it would seem to be untenable rast

when the dynamical consequences of the move- we il ee

ments of trees and buildings are compared with eB ° _., Peele
the observed movements. The theory of lateral Tae eae Mean Wind
vibrations of bars is not strictly applicable to '9 2H ger aie Velocity

an ordinary building, which, for the sake of ip / Ne / ie

simplicity, we shall assume to be a solid \ 4 ‘sAmp.ofmicros.
masonry wall, cubical in shape, but can be D ggid cant oawemer ge

taken to be true as a first approximation when Fie. 9.

the terms depending on the rotatory inertia

are taken into account. If the wall is assumed to be of height 1, length a, and breadth 6,
and, if further, the wind blows perpendicularly to its face and one principal axis lies
in the plane of vibration, then the frequency p of its gravest mode of vibrationst is
given by

p= (1 —2-3241 E)aee™ + (88)

* The duration of microseisms is in most cases longer than the duration of the average velocity of wind

above 20 miles per hour, and this is due to the fact that feeble microseisms appear even when the velocity
is lower than 20 miles per hour, and the tabulation has been made from the point where they became just
visible up to the point where they disappeared.

+ Watxer, ‘ Modern Seismology,’ p. 73.

$ Ravzercn, ‘ Theory of Sound,’ vol. 1, arts. 171, 186. DISTURBED WEATHER IN THE INDIAN SEAS. 321

in which V is the velocity of progagation of longitudinal waves, depending only on the
material of which the building is made, K the radius of gyration of any transverse section
about the axis through its centre of inertia perpendicular to the plane of bending, and
m is a root of the equation cos m cosh m +1 =0 and has the value 1-875 for the
gravest mode. We have K? = jy b®, and taking V = velocity of propagation of longi-
tudinal waves = 5-5 km. per second and 1 = 4b = 20 metres, and substituting in
equation (33), we find that the wall will execute 22 vibrations per second in the gravest
mode.