Further, the slope of the stress strain diagram at the 10-40 Ibs. range of load
suggests that no primitive state of elasticity existed.

(ii) Repetitions of loading tended to produce a cyclic state which could not be identified
with a state of perfect elasticity.

(iii) When a cyclic state has been reached, the cyclical stress-strain relations corre-
sponded in every respect with the known phenomena exhibited by crystalline
aggregates,

General Conclusions Drawn from the Results of the Present Research.

(1) The crystals possessed no primitive state of elasticity ; plastic strain occurring
under the lowest stresses applied.

(2) In all the cases studied, this plastic strain consisted of shear in the direction of
a principal line of atoms on one or more of the octahedral planes of the crystal. The
slip-bands appearing on the polished surfaces of the test-pieces were the traces of these
planes.

(Nore.—It will be seen that the type of distortion encountered in the present experi-
ments where alternating and impact stresses were employed is of the same nature as
that previously determined by Taytor and Exam for static tensile strain.)

(3) The effect of slip on any plane was at first to increase its resistance to further
slip. At the same time a similar hardening effect was produced on other planes—

(a) on planes parallel to the original slip-planes,
(6) on planes intersecting the original slip-planes,

The experiments indicated that the resistance to slip was increased in a greater degree
on planes of type (b) than on those of type (a).

(4) The fact that extension always took place under reversed stresses suggests that
the resistance to slip on any plane was greater when the normal stress across the plane
was compressive than when it was tensile. Apart from this effect, slip in any part of
a specimen appeared to be confined to that octahedral plane on which the shear stress
in one of the principal atomic directions was the greatest.

(5) The hardening effects mentioned above appear to be connected in some way with
a permanent distortion of the lattice of the crystal. A similar conclusion has been
reached by several other workers.