The principal value of
Caucny, as regards the completely defined analytical integrals of Pure Mathematics,
would be the value at the centre of a minute spherical cavity. But the quantities
which, to avoid periphrasis, have been here called integrals, are really summations of
contributions from finite though very small, and complexly constituted, polarised
molecules ; the distribution of these molecules that occupy our minute cavity is entirely

* LEATHEM, “ Volume and Surface Integrals used in Physics,” ‘ Cambridge Monographs,’ No. 1, p. 5,
+ ‘ Aither and Matter,’ p, 261,
} Loc. cit., p. 265,


CONSTITUTION AND TEMPERATURE ON MAGNETIC SUSCEPTIBILITY. 249

unknown and may be continually changing, so that the only possible principal value
is the one that omits the contribution of neighbouring molecules altogether.” *

When now we come to the case of crystalline media, the molecules which were
removed from our small spherical cavity would affect considerably the value of the
forcive at the centre, for there is in this case no averaging out on account of random
motions and orientations of the molecules originally occupying the cavity. As we do
not know the relative dispositions of the molecules composing the space lattice, or the
law of force which is operative between the molecules, it is quite impossible to
calculate the value of the intrinsic forcive for a point inside a crystalline medium, and
as the method of averages, the application of which is quite satisfactory when the
medium is in a fluid state, breaks down in the case of a crystalline medium, it is clear
that our only way of progress lies in indirect deduction from experimental facts which
record the change of physical properties accompanying the transition from the liquid
to the crystalline state. This is the method which has been adopted in the previous
portions of this work and it has been shown that the internal forcive at a point of
a crystalline medium is extremely large and comparable, if interpreted magnetically,
with the molecular field in ferro-magnetic substances (10 gauss). In Part III. it was shown that the potential energy of the molecules forming
a crystalline structure was sufficiently large to account for the magnitude of the
thermal energy required for fusion.