The experimentally observed energy relations, however, are not sufficiently accurate
to enable us to determine with certainty the exact process by which the original
configuration of the atom is regained. In fundamentals, however, the theory can scarcely be questioned. It explains so
many facts and is so simple in itself that there seems no alternative but to accept it
in outline at least.

[The principal facts which may be regarded as giving support to the theory may be summarised as
follows :—
(1) When » is just less than yx for any one of the heavier elements, the fraction of the primary energy

absorbed (K absorption) transformed into K characteristic radiation (E) is slightly less than 0°5. K,

(2) There is evidently a limiting value of about 0°5 for the fraction.

(3) As » diminishes this fraction invariably diminishes.

(4) In the one substance carefully investigated—a substance giving the maximum value just below 0:5—
the rate of diminution of this fraction with diminution in p is almost perfectly that given by theory.

(5) When # is just less than py, for the one substance thoroughly investigated, the fraction of primary

/

energy absorbed (K absorption) transformed into K corpuscular radiation (Et) is also slightly less than 0°5,
This is approximately true for many substances, though a value appreciably but not considerably less than
0°5 has been obtained.

(6) The value exceeding 0°5 has never been observed.

(7) As p» diminishes, the fraction invariably increases.

(8) In the one substance investigated, the rate of increase of the fraction is approximately the theoretical
rate when p is not near to yx. (But when » is near to px there is probably a real deficiency of corpuscular
radiation.)

(9) There is no evidence against the theory in its essentials.

(10) The theory is a very simple one.]

Experiments were commenced with Mr. SHEARER with the object of determining
whether the emission of K electrons was accompanied by a weak L radiation
additional to that associated with L electrons, but the investigation was interfered
with by war work, and did not get beyond the preliminary stage.