This mean increase in molecular volume,
when a sulphur atom is replaced by a selenium atom, in either series, is 3°6 Lorenz
units, or 6°7 Gladstone units. Summary of Main Conclusions. The results now presented for the nickel group of double selenates, of the mono-

clinic series R,M ( kd 0,) . 6H,0, are in line with those previously communicated for the
i /2


MONOCLINIC DOUBLE SELENATES OF THE NICKEL GROUP. 233

magnesium and zine groups of double selenates, and for the eight groups of double
sulphates, the investigation of which was completed by the publication of the author's
last memoir (of June, 1915).* The two main results are that the progression of all
the morphological and optical properties of the crystals, with the atomic weight of the
alkali metal (K = 38°85, Rb = 84°9, Cs = 131°9, and Rb—K = 46, Cs—Rb = 47), is
beautifully shown once more in this nickel group of double selenates ; and that the
true isomorphism, but not eutropism, of the ammonium salt with the potassium,
rubidium and cesium salts is clearly indicated by the principal determinative constants
(such as interfacial angles, size of the unit cell of the space-lattice, refractive indices
and molecular refraction) of the ammonium salt never falling outside the limits of
these constants for the two extreme, potassium and cesium, salts of the group.

8 The former of these two main results is admirably illustrated by the fact that both

Sthe average and the maximum amounts of interfacial angular change, brought about

Bby replacing one alkali metal by another, are directly proportional to the change in

atomic weight. The differences of atomic weight between potassium and rubidium

Sand between the latter and cesium are practically the same (46 and 47), and the

Bchanges in angle, whether the mean of all the changes of the 36 angles measured or

sathe greatest change of angle observed, are also equal ; or to express it differently, the

‘replacement of K by Cs is accompanied by twice as much angular change as that of

7K by Rb (average changes K by Rb, 23’, and K by Cs, 47’, maxima 57’ and 119’),

Ejust as the change of atomic weight Cs—K (= 93) is double that for Rb—K (= 46).

-2 The amounts are so large as to be entirely removed from any possibility of error,

Z which, on a generous estimate, cannot exceed 3’,

> The second main fact is illustrated by the closeness of the structural dimensions
= (those of the unit cell of the space-lattice) of the ammonium and rubidium salts, the

E rubidium salt being the intermediate metallic salt. So very close are the total
"= volumes of the cells (the molecular volumes, for the Rb salt 216°96 and for the NH,

& salt 216°53) and their edge-lengths (the topic axial ratios), that the crystals of the

"3 two salts are practically iso-structural, that is, their space-lattices are congruent,

3 practically identical, capable of being represented by the same model on any scale
within reason.

8 The author has the more confidence in putting forward this important result inas-
much as the similar result found with regard to the simple rhombic alkali sulphates
has just been verified in the laboratory of Prof.