SOUTHWELL ON THE GENERAL THEORY OF ELASTIC STABILITY. 239

harmonic terms, and when the load is applied one of these harmonies will be
developed very much more than the others, just as one constituent harmonic may be
developed by “ resonance” in an alternating current wave of irregular shape. In the
ordinary strut problem this magnified harmonic is such that one-half wave occupies
the length of the strut, but in other problems, such as that of the tubular strut,
though there is always a “favourite” or “natural harmonic” which is especially
magnified, its relation to the dimensions may be more complicated.* In any case the
effects of practical imperfections of form might be studied, if the analytical difficulties
could be surmounted, by investigating the rate at which the amplitude of this
&* natural harmonic” increases with the load, when its value in the initial configu-
Sration i is given; and the results of the investigation might be shown graphically by
Seurves of distortion, similar in character to the curves of fig. 8, in which the abscissee-
represented the amplitude of the natural harmonic, and the ordinates represented the
gmagnitude of the applied stress-system, or “ load.”
<< These “curves of distortion” are of considerable utility for the study oc problems
Sin elastic stability, even though their true form can only be guessed. hey help us,
Bfor example, to explain, and in some degree to remedy, the serious discrepancy
sexisting between Evuer’s theory and the results of experiments on short struts.
‘The discrepancy has often been attributed to practical imperfections of form ; but it
‘sshould hardly be necessary to point out that practical imperfections are likely to
iminish rather than to increase in importance, as the dimensions of an elastic solid
-2become more nearly comparable, so that they will never be more effective as causes of
weakness than in struts of great length, which, as a matter of fact, give results in
Belose agreement with Euer’s formula. S A more satisfactory explanation of this, and of similar discrepancies in other
Eproblems, may be found in the fact that the ordinary theory of elastic stability
“gheglects the possibility of elastic break-down. If we attempt to draw “curves of
Sdistortion” for any single problem, we shall find that, apart from the other data of
‘Ythe problem, three possible cases exist, depending upon the elastic limit of the material
‘Sunder consideration :—

E (1) The material may be of infinite strength ;
fas (2) Its elastic limit may be so high that the critical load, as determined by the
theory of instability, is not sufficient to cause elastic break-down in the
configuration of equilibrium ;
(3) Elastic break-down may occur, even in the position of equilibrium, at a load less
than the critical value. In the first case (which is, of course, purely ideal), the distortion due to loading
will vanish when the loading is removed, and in this sense we may say that the

* In the problem of the tubular strut, the “ favourite harmonic” is, of course, defined by that value of ¢
which corresponds to a minimum value of & in equations (102) or (104).


240 MR.