An analysis similar to that
by means of which equation (13) was obtained, together with the transformations of
equation (18), lead to the expression

E (X) = GetX-Meee cee ew es (88)

where § is the intensity of solar radiation outside the earth’s atmosphere corresponding
to a given wave-length and ¢ is the zenith distance of the sun. If we consider the rate of accumulation of the total energy (including both direct
and scattered radiation) between the planes « and #+dz, it can be shown by making
use of the integral equation connecting the direct with the scattered radiation that
the exponential law of transmission expressed in (23) is valid.t]

It is well to state clearly the assumptions involved in obtaining (13), (19), and (23) :—

(i) In obtaining the differential equation leading to (18) the direct radiation is

considered independently of the scattered radiation within the small solid
, angle w.

(ii) The integral equation (22) assumes as an approximation that the radiation
scattered by an element of volume is distributed equally in all directions.

(iii) With these two conditions it can be shown from a consideration of attenuation
of total radiation in a thin layer dx that the ordinary exponential law of
transmission (23) follows ; @.e., that the transmission of direct radiation
may be considered independently of the scattered radiation.

(iv) By means of the transformation (18) it is shown that the problem of scattered

* GLAISHER, ‘ Phil. Trans.,’ 1870, p. 367.

[+ Note added September 20, 1912.—The calculation referred to was given at length in the paper as
originally communicated ; the analysis is, however, somewhat tedious and hardly necessary in view of the
fact that (13) is obtained according to the assumption that the direct radiation is considered independently
of the scattered radiation within the small solid angle ». It is to be expected, therefore, that the
attenuation of direct radiation in a parallel beam of solar radiation may be considered independently of
the scattered radiation consistently with the above assumption leading immediately to (23); the considera-
tion of the attenuation of the total radiation confirms this point and leads to the same result, The writer
is indebted to the referees for the above suggestion. |


ABSORPTION OF LIGHT IN GASEOUS MEDIA. 383

radiation in the earth’s atmosphere reduces to the case of an atmosphere of
uniform density contained between two parallel planes X = 0 and X = H. This transformation is independent of any law of density with height,
provided the planes of equal density are parallel to the earth’s surface,

$4.