The great majority of workers would, by
following the methods usually adopted for accurate weighing, quite fail to detect so
small a change with any degree of certainty ; and therefore, for our present purpose,
the variation may be treated as an insignificant factor which calls for no further

. comment. In considering the effects which may be produced by the last of three variables
named above, we would first note that when the buoyancy of the air is to be allowed
for, a thermometer is placed in some convenient position within the balance case and
read at the time the object is weighed; the density of the air at the observed
temperature is then taken into account and the proper correction applied. For very
many cases this way of treating the problem in hand is doubtless sufficiently accurate
and calls for little or no criticism, Yet it must be admitted that a close examination
of the actual facts will show that such a plan must not infrequently lead to the
adoption of an inaccurate correcting value for the buoyancy. To obtain a rigorously
true correcting value, the temperature of the air should be taken, not as is often done
anywhere within the balance case, but at a point infinitely near the object weighed ;
for, unless the temperature of the air which is in close contact with the object upon
the balance pan be accurately known, it will be impossible to assign to the correcting
factor a precise value. The following remarks will, it is hoped, render evident the
nature of the error that may be introduced by pursuing the usual instead of the ideal
method,


CHANGE IN WEIGHT DURING CHEMICAL REACTION. 247

Let the temperature of a sphere having V = 150c.c. be 0°1C. greater than the
mean temperature of the air within the balance case; we shall commit no serious
error if we assume that the enveloping shell of air which is in close contact with and
therefore readily warmed by the walls of the vessel is likewise 0°°1 C. greater than-
the mean temperature of the general body of air; for theory shows that such a shell
of warmer air, though thin, will be appreciable and fairly well defined.