Thus «” can certainly be chosen so that the equation Y,,,-; is satisfied. Having determined «”, it is at once seen from p. 19 that the following equations
now determine y,', y,'... without ambiguity ; for since 6,’...0,? are independent of «”,
the coefficients of y,', &c., are those found there whether «* be zero or not. In the same way for the third column, with a, a", taken into account, the equations
become

(@r41— 3) m—Y = 0,

(p41 — Progr) + (4p—9,") Hy — Yr — Apap — A % = 0,

and just as before the first equation in which «,, occurs with a non-vanishing coefficient
is the one following the equation from which @,° first does not vanish out identically,
viz., Z..+,-2; While #, will occur first in the equation homologous to the Y equation
in which @,, first occurred, viz., Z,4,-1; in fact, in Z,,4p-2, %. will occur multiplied by
the left-hand member of Z,4,-3 with 0,°+1 put for 6°, and in Z.4p-2, @_ will be
multiplied by the left-hand member of Y,4,-3 with 6,°+1 put for 0,°: both these
factors are other than zero. Thus «” can be chosen to satisfy Z,4,-s, and subsequently a” to satisfy Z.4)-2,
bi the preceding equations are quite independent of them both ; just as for y, then,

.. are given in succession without ambiguity.

pees the remainder of the first ¢, columns in just the same way, all the sinmeiit
of these columns are found in succession, and the solution is complete as far as these
columns are concerned,

The e, columns associated with the next group of equal roots may be treated in
the same way, the singular equations being in this case the (€+€,) of each set;
constants « will again be chosen in the matrix x to the right of the diagonal,
ateaSt>eq+l, ate>jySatl, to satisfy certain equations as above, and so for
each root in succession. Thus if the various equations for 6, associated with the different groups of equal
roots of the characteristic equation have their roots all different, and the “ equations


SATISFYING LINEAR DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS. 9)

of condition ” (p. 15) for each root are satisfied, a formal solution of the linear system
has been found in the form

no (Ses 4X4... 4X2),
where the elements of are series of positive integral ascending powers of ¢, and
Xi+++Xp-1 have all elements zero save those in the diagonals, which are made up of
determinate constants; and x, consists merely of square matrices about its diagonal
of «, €... rows and columns respectively, each of which has zero everywhere to the
left of the diagonal and determinate constants everywhere else.