Hippocrates (Aph. 1. 14.) mentions the ©4pmoy
Yapuley, Calidum immnatum. Galen takes it for the
Sol, and more modern Writers have ſuppoſed it to,
be the very Spirit, the Archeus, and others the Yital
Heat ; bat have all treated of it as a certain Degree
of Fire exiſting in Animals; not having any Notion,,
that the Element of Fire might be abſorbed, or lie
latent, in fluid Bodies, ready to become ative as ſoon.
as it meets with Air, or even to kindle, if it meets
with ſulphureous Particles under proper Circum-
ances. This 1fanſy the Antients, in the yery-eat-.
lieſt Ages of the World, had ſome Notions of ; when
they thought proper to communicate to the Vulgar
ſome Shadows only of 'more profound and real
Knowledge under Types and Fables, as handed down:
to us in the Fi&tions of the Poets: Of this kind, and
quite to our Purpoſe, I take the Fiction of Prome-
thens ſtealing Fire from Heaven to animate his Men
with, to be one. | And, T think, -upon this Princi-
ple of Phoſphoras exiſting (in Animals, one may
caſily explain the Cauſe of thoſe melancholy Acci-
dents which have happened to ſome of the human,
Species, as that of the Lady at Ceſena-in Traly, (aythe
Carpenter'in Hampſhire, (6) and the Woman. lately at
TIsfwich (c); who, itis moſt probable, were all ſet on
Fire by Lightening : It may be ſaid, Many are ſirack
by Lightening, but not ſet on Fire ; but it is to be
remarked, that the Lady at Ceſena had.charged all
tier Pores and abſorbent Veſſels with a great Quan-
| .
(a) See this Tranſ+ p, 447 (8) Bb. p- 461, (c) Ib. p. 403+


C479 ]

rity of Camphire;zthe Woman at Jp/evich had drank
Plenty 'of Gin z-and as: for the Carpentcr, that Cir-
cumſtance isnot recorded of him; whether he was an
hard Drinker ornot; which Circumſtances mult greatly
promote the kindling the phoſphoreal Fire in them
and, as'this' Pabulum was conveyed into the moſt
minute capillary Veſſels, might produce -an almoſt
inſtantancous Deflagration and Diſſolution of all the
ſolid containing: Parts. Animals appearing. more ſuſceptible of elcfric
Fire than other- Bodics, greatly confirms my Con-
jeuies of 'the phoſphoreal Principles; and I ſhould
think, that being render'd, eleric to any high De-

ree might-prove-a dangerous Experiment to- a. Per-
on habituated to a plentiful Uſe of ſpirituous Liquors,
or to Embrocations with camphorated Spirit of Wine ;
'on: thei contrary, /in ſome- languid, . cold, or worn-
out-Conſtitarions, poſlibly,- future Experiments may
cyince, that Elericity may be uſed medically, in
order to renew and regencrate a proper Quantity of
vital Fire, ſuch as is neceſſary-for the conveniently

carrying on, and-performing the animal FunRions,.
© 1]. hope, Sir, your Goodneſs will excuſe the Haſte
with which I haye penned down. theſe Thoughts,
-being the Subject of a Letter I wrote to my much re-
ſpeedPreceptor the famous Boerhaave *, while I was
at Leydepabove'2o Years ago ; but which not finding
| a

:** Who honoured me with an intimate Literary Correſpondence even to within a
few Days of his Death 3 it being to me, Amico Lonbipegl, a Friend at London, that/ he
wrote.that Letter ſtating his own Caſe, as publiſhed by rofe.