It is therefore 2&37- = 6.3744. for the value of this coeffi-
cient, and this multiplied into the number 1479.5 gives 9431
for the value of y in atmospheres. Again, the density being supposed = 1000 (or, that the
charge of powder completely fills the cavity in which it is con-
fined), in that case it will be 1000**%4 — y =15849; and this
number being turned into atmospheres by being multiplied by


280 Count RumrorD's Experiments to determine

the coefficient above found (= 6.3744), gives 101021 atmo-
spheres for the measure of the initial force of the elastic fluid
generated in the combustion of gunpowder. Enormous as this force appears, I do not think it over-rated;
for nothing much short of such.an inconceivable force can, in
my opinion, ever explain; in a satisfactory manner the bursting
of the barrel s0 often mentioned; and to this we may add, that,
as in 7 different experiments, all made with charges of 1 2 grains
of powder, there were no less, than. 5 in which the, weight was
raised with a report, and as the same weight. was moved. in g
different experiments in which the charge consisted of less than
12 grains, there does not appear to, be any reason whatever for
doubt with regard to the principal fact on which the, above
computation is founded. There is an objection, however,, that may. be made to thege
decisions respecting the force of gunpowder, which, on the first
view, appears of considerable,importance;.but on, a more. care-
ful examination it will be found to have no, weight. |

If the force of fired gunpowder is 50 very.great, how does it
happen that fire-arms and artillery of all kinds, which certainly
are not calculated to withstand $80 enormous a force, are not ;
always burst when they are used ? I might answer this. ques- l-
tion by another, by asking how it happened that the barrel used
in my experiments, and which was more than ten times stronger
in proportion to the size of its bore than ever a piece of ordnance
was formed, could be burst by the force of gunpowder, if its
force is not in fact much. greater than it has ever been supposed
to be ?