There is an actual average deficiency,
compared with plot 9, of nearly 700 Ibs. of Festuca ovina, of nearly 400 Ibs. of Poa
pratensis, and of each the deficiency was very much greater in the last separation-year,
There was also an average deficiency of between 100 and 200 lbs. of Avena pubescens
and A. flavescens, besides some deficiency in the quantities furnighed by Bromus
mollis, Lolium perenne, and a few other species taken collectively ; but of the two
species of Avena, the Bromus, and the Lolium, the deficiency was much the less in the
Tater years. As the table shows, the occurrence of the Teguminosz may be said to be quite
immaterial—indeed, all but accidental. Of the three most prominent Miscellanee, Rumez Acetosn, Conopodium denudatum,
and Achillea Millefolium, each has gone down in a very marked degree from the
earlier to the later years; Rumer Acetosa being, in fact, the only one which was at all
fairly represented in the fourth separation-year,

Thus, with the mixed mineral manure, including potass, and an undoubtedly excessive


ON THE MIXED HERBAGE OF PERMANENT MEADOW. 1357

amount of ammonia-salts, the herbage has become almost exclusively gramineous,
Leguminos are practically banished, and Miscellanez much reduced, both in number
— and in quantity. The grasses which have become the most prominent are of large
; habit and free growth, whilst those which are reduced are for the most part
characteristically of an opposite description. For a number of years Dactylis was by far the most prominent, Agrostis, Alope-
eurus, and Poa pratensts, coming next ; but, latterly, Dactylis has lost ground, both
Poas have very much reduced, and Agrostis vulgaris, Holcus lanatus, and Avena elatior,
8eem to be coming much more to the fore in the struggle.

& The character of growth of the plot is essentially tufty and patchy ; coarse strong

Seed-stems developing, with large, dark green, broad, © flag ”-like leaves, and the over-

own plants are often laid,” and the crowns become more or less' rotten before
utting, whilst the maturing is irregular and imperfect.