Thus the two thousand double
plates of the London Institution, when arranged as one bat-
tery, would not ignite s0 much wire as a single battery of
ten plates with double copper,

It is not easy to explain this result, Does the intensity
mark the rapidity of the motion of the electricity ? or, merely
its diminished attraction for the matter on which it acts?
and does this attraction become less in proportion as the cir-
cuit, through which it passes, or in which it is generated, con-
tains a greater number of alternations of bad conductors ? Mr. Cni.DREN, in his account of the experiments made
with his battery of large plates, has ingeniously referred the
heat produced by the passage of electricity through conduc-
tors, to the resistance it meets. with, and has supposed, what
proves to be the fact, that the heat is in some inverse ratio
to the conducting power, The greatest heat however is pro-


438 Sir Humpnny Davy on the magnetic phenomena

duced in air, where there is reason to suppose the least resis-
tance; and as the presence of heat renders bodies worse con-
ductors, another view may be taken, namely, that the exci-
tation of heat occasions. the imperfection of the conducting
power. But till the causes of heat and of electricity are known,
and of that peculiar constitution of matter which excites the
one, and transmits or propagates the other, our reasoning: on
this subject must be inconclusive. I found that when equal portions of wires of the same di-
ameter, but of different metals, were connected together in
the circuit of a powerful voltaic battery, acting as two sur-
faces, the metals were heated in the following order : iron
most, then palladium, then platinum, then tin, then zine, then
gold, then lead, then copper, and silyer least of all, And
from one experiment, in which similar wires of platinum and
sIlver joined in the same circuit were placed in equal portions
of oil, it appeared that the generation of heat was nearly
inversely as their conducting power. _ Thus the silver raised
the temperature of the oil only four degrees, whilst the pla-
tinum raised it twenty-two.