The fact of importance is that
the primary lesions were without discoverable effect, on tactile sensibility. In Experiment 26 also, though the lower temporo-sphenoical region was destroyed,


LESION OF DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES. 563

the hippocampal region only partially involved, there was only slight and transitory
pairment of tactile sensibility on the opposite side. These, as well as other similar facts narrated, 8erve to show that the lesions of the
Jower temporo-sphenoidal region which are necessarily made in attempts to destroy the
hippocampal region from the external aspect of the temporal lobe are negative or
unimportant in the causation of the anzsthesia. Where the hippocampal region was reached through or from the under surface of the
occipital lobe, and particularly in the former case, where the meduVary fibres of the
whole of the posterior lobe were invaded, tactile anzsthesia was complicated with visual

© defects more or less pronounced. But the experiments recorded in Section T. enable us

Ito eliminate the visual defects and assign them to the lesions inflicted on the occipito-

Singular region.

2 The &xense of hearing was very rarely affected, and then only when the lesions

Bnvaded the medullary fibres of the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution.

= By thus eliminating the effects of lesions of the occipito-angular region, of the

Superior temporo-sphenoidal, and in large measure at least of the middle and lower
emporo-sphenoidal region, we arrive ab the lesion of the hippocampal region as the -
b&zential factor in the cansation of the anzesthesia observed in the various cases.

z When the hippocampal region was entirely destroyed, as in Experiment 27, the

nosb complete anzsthesia was manifested on the opposite side, and the degree of

Amesthesia varied in other experiments with the completeness of the destruction of

-Nhis region.

2 In 80me of the experiments the apparently impossible feat was accomplished of

Sextricting the lesion to the gyrus hippocampi and hippocampus itself respectively.