Of course, if the wire were
perfectly flexible, and we could entirely avoid pendulous vibrations when we started

* «Phil. Trans.,' Part 1, 1883, p, 168.
+ Tt will be observed that in Experiment 1. the mean logarithmic decrement for 70 oscillations is
taken in all the series except the last, where we have the mean for 210 oscillations given. STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER. 811

the torsional vibrations, this would not be the case ; but, as a matter of fact, even if
we could start the wire without any pendulous motion, the axis of the wire never
exactly passes through the centre of mass, and, as a consequence, when the wire
vibrates torsionally, s0-called © centrifugal force ” canses torsional motion to be
partially converted into pendulous motion, or vice vers. When, as in Experiment I., the period of pendulous vibration does not approxi-
mately synchronise with the period of torsional vibration, the phenomenon is not very
pronounced; but when, as in Experiment II., the two periods approach to synchronism,
it is very apparent. Indeed, when the two periods approach sufficiently to synchro-
nism, and the damping is not great, the phenomenon may become 80 marked that,
after a time, almost the whole of the torsional motion becomes converted into
pendulous motion, and presently reconverted again, s0 that the torsional vibrations,
= having firsb diminished to nearly zero, begin to increase again until nearly the initial
'S amplibude has been reached, when once more the torsional motion begins to be con-
Ss verted into pendulous motion, and 80 on.* An interesting fact in connexion with
& this phenomenon is that, if we allow the wire to rest, with oscillations at intervals, the
& Tise and fall becomes much less pronounced, in consequence, probably, of the wire
= gradually allowing its axis to pass more nearly through the centre of mass, but we
Z can easily reproduce it in all its intensity by jarring the wire, or even sometimes by
S change of temperature.

2 Unless there is nearly synchronism between the pendulous and torsional vibrations,
2 there is little or no appreciable effect on the value of the logarithmic decrement, and,
S if we reckon from maximum to maximum, I have found that the logarithmic decre-
= menb is 8ensibly constant, whatever the amplitude, provided the latter does not exceed
8. a certain limit, Similarly there will be little error introduced in our estimation of
= the internal friction of the metal from the mean logarithmic decrement deduced from
S a number of rials, which number was in my experiments very considerable.

—D When, however, the synchronigm between the two periods is sufficient, there may
YZ be a very serious interference with the mean logarithmic decrement, and even a
Z sensible interference with the torsional vibration-period ; and I hold it as a matter of
Ss 8ome considerable importance that, in all experiments connected with the damping, or
even, when great accuracy is required, with the vibration-period of torsionally vibrating

bodies, this point should be well looked to.f]

* T had the pleasure of showing this phenomenon to the Physical Society, June 26, 1886.

+ A very light shock sometimes will effect this,

+ In the case of a magnet suspended with its axis horizontal, the axis of rotation will of necessity not
pass through the centre of mass anywhere except at the magnetic equator.