As the work progressed, the conviction became more and more forced
upon me that I was dealing with something very distinetly different from what is met
with in fluid friction, In Experiment 1. we see apparently that one of the laws of
fluid friction is exactly carried out, for according to the seventh column, in which is
given the logarithmic decrement for one vibration, the diminution of range per equal
numbers of oscillations bears a constant ratio to the diminishing range, the departures
from the mean value of the Jogarithmic decrements being in no case greater than *3
per cent, A closer scrutiny, however, shows us that this is only the case because, in
calculating each of the logarithmic decrements, the mean of a great number of
oscillations is taken,F If we look into each et of s8ix arcs, we may notice tha
in some instances two consecutive arcs will show no diminution whateyer, whilst
in others the proportionate diminution is much more than the average. These
are not the results of errors of observation, because the differences are appreciably
greater than any which could be accounted for in this way, and when we turn to
Experiment II. the phenomenon is more marked ; we have mos indubitable evidence
of a continued rise and fall of the logarithmic decrement. This rise and fall would
probably escape notice, were we able to take the mean of as many oxscillations as were
taken with copper ; moreover, if we commence a fresh experiment altogether, we find
a total mean logarithmic decrement p_—_ within the limits of errors of observation,
with the previous one,

[Note added Sept. 18, 1886.—T have since discovered the cause of this rise and
fall: it is due to the fact that it is impossible to ensure that the axis of rotation
always passes exactly through the centre of mass. Of course, if the wire were
perfectly flexible, and we could entirely avoid pendulous vibrations when we started

* «Phil. Trans.,' Part 1, 1883, p, 168.
+ Tt will be observed that in Experiment 1. the mean logarithmic decrement for 70 oscillations is
taken in all the series except the last, where we have the mean for 210 oscillations given.