Experiment XXIT. Two pieces of the same gpecimen of annealed zinc wire, one 602 centims. in length
and the other only 97 centirs. in length, were both tried under nearly the same con-
ditions as regards preliminary treatment and time of vibration, &e. The logarithmic
decrement due to internal friction was, in the case of the longer wire, 003207, and,
in the case of the shorter one, '003327, The difference between these two numbers
can quite be accounted for by the fact that the temperature of the shorter wire was
about 3* C. higher than that of the longer.t

Two pieces of iron wire, cub from the same hank, but one having a length of
96 centims. and the other of 602 centims., gave, when treated in a similar manner,
exactly the same logarithmic decrements. We may, therefore, regard the logarithmic decrement as independent both of 'the
length and of the diameter of the wire, provided care be taken that the two pieces
of different lengths which are compared shall have suffered the same preliminary
treatment,

« Fatigue of Elasticity.”

Sir WrLam TromsoN writes,} © Experimental exercises performed by students in
the physical laboratory of the University of Glasgow, during the session 1864-65,
brought to light some very remarkable and interesting results, proving a loss of energy
in elastic vibrators incomparably greater than anything which could be due to imper-
fections in their elasticity, and showing also a very remarkable fatigue of elasticity,
according to which a wire, which had been kept vibrating for several hours or days
through a certain range, came to rest much more quickly when left to itself than
when set in vibration after it had been at rest for several days and then immediately
left to itself.” This 80-called © fatigue of elasticity” seemed to me 8uch a very
remarkable phenomenon that, throughout the whole of these investigations, I was
constantly on the look-ont for traces of it ; but, owing no doubt to the very slight
maximum deformations employed in these experiments, I could detect nothing of the
kind with any metaly except nickel. The whole of the other metals examined, namely,

* It is necessary to take great care that the temperature should fluctuate very little, as any fluctuation
will affect a thin wire more than a thicker one.

+ The effect of change of temperature on the internal frietion of zinc is rather considerable.

t © Eneyel, Brit., 9th edit., Art. © Elasticity,” $ 30.

$ Except in Experiment XIX,


STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER. 833

platinum, silver, steel, iron, brass, copper, aluminium, zine, platinum-silver, and
German-silver, with arcs from rest to resb ranging up to 700 scale-divisions, and lead
and tin, for ares ranging up to 200 scale-divisions, showed no sign of the phenomenon,
With nickel, however, the case was different, and I met with most marked 8igns of
*fatigue of elasticity,” even for such small molecular displacements as attended
arcs ranging from 300 to 700 scale-divisions.