Posterior
to the point of union with its fellow the right cardinal is situated in the middle line
imbedded in the fused kidneys (figs. 23 and 24), and therefore not visible in the
ordinary course of dissection without partly removing the latter ; traced backwards
it is found to undergo a gradual diminution in calibre, and to arise at the posterior end
of the kidneys by the confluence of the efferent veins from that part of the renal
bissues. It has already been shown (spra, p. 703) that the candal vein, contrary to the
statements usually made, divides into two renal portal veins which pass forwards,
gradually diminishing in calibre. It is now shown that the cardinal vein, 80 far
from being continuous with the caudal, commences as a very small vessel in the
posterior region of the kidneys, and extends forwards, gradually increasing in
calibre, These facts are clear enough from ordinary dissection ; if an injected
specimen be hardened in alcohol, the cardinal vein slit open longitudinally and the
contained injection-mass removed, the non-extension of the vein caudad of the
kidneys is perfectly evident, But the matter becomes clearer still by the examina-
tion of a series of sections, as shown in Plate 37, figs. 22-24, In fig. 22, taken
through the middle of the first dorsal fin and a short distance cephalad of the union
of the left cardinal with the right, the renal portal veins are very small ; in fig. 23,
taken 4 cms. cephalad of the pubis, the right cardinal is seen to have taken up a
median position and the renal portals have increased in size ; in fig. 24, through
the symphysis pubis, the renal portals have still further increased in calibre and
are now distinctly larger than the right cardinal, which, in the nexb section, had
disappeared. It will be for fature investigations to determine the age at which the formation
of the renal portal system takes place, all that can be said at present being that
it occurs during comparatively late embryonic life. In the embryo of Seymnus,
already referred to (* Stage O,” Barrous), the caudal vein is directly continued
into the cardinals as in Cyclostomes (Plate 37, figs. 31 and 32) ; on the other
hand, in a ripe fetus of Mustelus I have ascertained, from a complete series of


BLOOD-VESSELS OF MUSTELUS ANTAROTIOCUS. 715

"thin sections of the pelvic region, that the adult condition of things is already
- fully established.