IT lid9 nat b<dj:r 325


» the\Decomposition of the Earths, &c. 347

bodies, and to search for analogies by which the principles of
research might be-guided. ,

Alumine very. slowly finds-its point of rest at the negative
pole, in the electrical circuit ; but silex, even when diffused
in'its gelatinous/state: through water, rests indifferently atthe
negative or positive poles. E. From. this indifference to positive and negative electrical
E attractions, following the general order of facts, it might be
£ inferred, that if these bodies be compounds, | the electrical
- energies of their elements are nearly in equilibrium ; and that
S their-state is either analogous to that of insoluble neutral salts,
5 or-of-oxides nearly saturated with oxygene,

5 » The combinations of silex and alumine, with acids and alka-
= lies, as: well as their electrical powers, were not inconsistent
5 with either of these ideas ; for in some respects they resemble
'Z in physical characters, fluate and phosphate of lime, as much
Z as in-others, they approach to the oxides of zinc and tin...
= On the idea that slex might be an insoluble neutrosaline
Z compound, containing an unknown acid or earth, or both, and
I capable of being resolved into its secondary elements, in the
5 same manner as sulphate of barytes, or fluate of lime, I made
3 the following experiments. |

= Two gold cones,*'conneeted by moistened amianthus, were
E filled with © pure 'water, and placed in the electrical/;cir-

euit,/a 4niall quantity of carefully prepared and-well/\washed
slex was introduced into the positive”cone ? the action was
- kept up from a battery of two hundred plates, for s0me-hours
till nearly half of the fluid in each cone- was exhausted ;;the
remainders were-examined z-the fluid-in the cone containing

* The same as those described in Phil, Trans. 1807, p. 6. Yy.2


348 Mr. Davy's Electrochemical Recearchas on

the silex was strongly acid; that in; the opposite- cone was
strongly alkaline ; the two fluids were passed through bibu-
lous paper, and mixed together, when a CAO fell down,
which proved to be silex, T

On the first view of the subject, it Goat oihakla that
this silex had been formed by the union. of the acid and: the
alkaline matter -in the two cones, and that the experiment
demonstrated a decomposition and recompoxsition of silex; but
before such a conclusion could be made, many _ were/to
be determined. bis

It was possible that the acid might bs nitric acid, produced
as. in other. electrical experiments of a similar nature, and:that!;
this acid might have dissolved silex, which was precipitated by.
the alkaline matter at the other pole, which might be- either.
potash used for dissolving the silex, which had adhered to it,
notwithstanding the processes of lixiviation in acids, or am-
monia produced in consequence of the, presence of the-atmos-
phere ;. or if potash was present, it was-likewise possible that
the;silex might have been carried over: in s0lution; with-this
alkali, from the positive to the negative surface, 14/4 1

Minute experiments were instituted and completed in the
satne manner as those detailed in the Philosophical Transac-
tions for 1807, p. 7. which soon. proved, that there ,was. no
reason.to .Suppose that the silex had been penn is in these
experiments!