But in fact, the difference of the curvatures in this construc-
tion is 80 very trifling, as to fall within the limits of practical
errors, and therefore, if the separation of. the two glasses by
a ring of metal (which in a 10 feet object-glass, of 5 inches
aperture, even in the very unfavourable case of z=0:70 need
not exceed 1-400th of an inch'in thickness) be deemed un-
advisable, it may be neglected, and the glasses ground to
the same radius, provided only the necessary alterations are
made in the other surfaces to preserve the proper proportion
of their focal lengths.

26. With regard to the interpolation of the tables above
given for intermediate values of 7; if we cast our eyes down
the second and th columns, we cannot but be struck by the
very small alteration in the values of 7, and Th the curvatures

of the first and last surfaces throughout the whole useful


compound lenses and olyect-glasses. 26g

extent of the table, i. e. as far as z=0:70, (beyond which it
is very unlikely it should ever extend in practice). In fact,
these values have, the one a maximum and the other a mini-
mum between @=0'55 and x=0'60. The principal variation
takes place on the values of r, and v, which change rapidly

as w increases, the whole stress of the adjustment by which
the aberration is corrected being laid on these surfaces. We
may take advantage of this fortunate and very remarkable
circumstance, and assigning to r, and 7, constant values, sach
as to give the least average error, employ them to complete
the interior curvatures: thus we may announce it as a prac-
tical theorem, which in all probability will be found suffi-
ciently exact for use, that a double object-glass will be free from
aberration, provided the radius of the exterior surface of the crown
lens be 6-720, and of the flint 14:20, the focal length of the com-
bination. being 10'c00, and the radii of the interior surfaces being
computed from these data, by the formule given in all elementary
works on optics, $0 as to make the focal lengths of the two glasses
in the direct ratio of their dispersive powers.

27.