These six strata are not s perfectly distinct as those above
them, for sometimes we think we can count seven, and again
not more than five ; nor does each of these preserve the same
thickness through their whole extent, for they are deeper
towards the northern point, where they culminate, forming
by themselves a perpendicular fagade near two hundred feet
high, but they grow thinner as they recede from-this centre. The jets of black rock: in; the view of Portmoon, are the
emersions. of these strata ; their last appearance on the west
8ide is at Rovinvalley, where they strongly display the incli-
natjon of their strata, (the same with all the rest) to those
approaching from the westward ; their final immersion is lost
for want of perpend:cularity.


\ of the: Counties of Derry and Antrim. 201

I shall now proceed to select from the great mass of facts
that are exhibited on the face of Bengore promontory, and
occur in the contiguous basaltic country, such as seem appli-
cable to geological questions, and likely to throw: light on
such subjects. Facts applicable to geological Questions.

1, Every stratum preserves accurately, or very nearly, the
same thickness through its whole extent, with very few ex-
ceptions.

2, The upper and lower surface of each stratum preserve
an exact parallelism, so long as they are covered by another
stratum ; but when any stratum becomes the superficial one,
its upper surface is scolloped, or sloped away irregularly,
while the plane forming its base continues steady, and recti-
lineal ; but the parallelism of its planes is resumed as 8001 as
another stratum is placed over it.

3. The superficial lines bounding the summit of our facades,
and our surface itself, are unconnected with, and -unaffected
by, the arrangement of the strata below them.

4. Nature, in the formation of her arrangements, has never
acted upon an extensive, scale in our basaltic area, (at-least
on its northern side, where our continuous precipices enable
us to determine the point with precision,) but changes her
materials, or her arrangement, or both, every two - or three
miles, and often at much smaller intervals.

5.