In tracing these
towards the cavity, they became indistinct just as they en-
tered the villii These appearances are shown in Pl, IIT.
fig. 2, 3, 4 This representation of the valves in these ves-
sels, as well as that of the valves of the vessels in the brain,
may be considered as demonstrations of the fact ; and still
more valuable than preparations, since the appearance can
be better preserved,

To show the course of the absorbed fluids, as well as to give
a clear idea of every thing - connected with s0 important
a discovery, a drawing of the spleen, the vas breve, and
cardiac portion of the stomach, is annexed [PI.IV;Jand as the
trunk of the splenic vein forms one of the trunks of the
vena portze, the Jiquids are directly carried to the liver,


98 Str EvERARD HoME on the

forming a part -of the materials employed in producing the
bile; the remainder only returning by the yena cava to the
heart. -

This additional quantity of liquids passing. along the sple-
vic vein, accounts for its being five times the size of the artery,
as well as for the blood in that vein having a greater propor-
tion of serum than the blood in any other, which has been
long asserted, and which I found by actual experiment to be
the case ; but being unable to account for it, as I can now, I
was willing to admit that the mode of measuring might be
erroneous. On the structure and uses of the spleen. In the different investigations that have been made of this
organ, the following facts have been ascertained ; but si//
neither the more minute texture, nor the ultimate use has
been, till now, discovered. It was known that a man could live without his spleen;
but there is no satisfactory account upon record of the incon-
venience he suffered from its loss. 2

It has been ascertained that the spleen, under different
circumstances, is larger or smaller in size. In an ass after
fasting two days, it was half the size that it was met with in
another, killed two hours after drinking freely, In the
diminished state there are no corpuscules ; in the enlarged
state they are very numerous.