In fig. 9. let AD be a body, by which the rays SDT
and S'D'T” pass; and let SD be within AD's sphere of inflec-
tion, and S'D' within its sphere of deflection ; then SD will
be bent into DG, but because of the different inflexibility of
its parts, the red will be bent into DR, and the violet into DV,
and the intermediate rays will fall between R and V, the
whole forming an image RGV, separated into the seven pri-
mary colours ; and in like manner, by the different deflexibi-
lity of the parts whereof S'D! consists, an image without the.


the Inflection, Reflection, and Colours of Light. 9257

shadow, as V'G'R' will be formed, similar to VGR, R' be-
ing red and V” violet, all which is both theory and expe-
rience; and the same explanation may be extended to the
other cases. Now, in all these, the bending power stretching
to a very small definite distance, and being of different degrees
of strength at different distances from the body, several pen-
cils or small beams, passing through different parts of the
spheres, will be acted upon by the power in its different states
of strength ; and each beam will be disposed into an image
in the way before described ; of these images I have some-
times observed four, and even, by using great care, the faint
lineaments of a fifth. In forming them, the power acts
strongest at the smallest distances, and of consequence bends
the mean flexible rays, that pass near, farther inwards or out-
wards than those that pass farther off; s0 that the extreme
rays will in the former case be more separated from the mean
than in the latter ; and the nearer image will always be the
largest and most highly coloured, which is consistent with fact. This explains fully the celebrated experiment of Sir Isaac
NewrTow with the knives, and the explanation is confirmed
by the experiments which I related above on flexibility, where
the bending force acted most strongly on those images formed
out of red light, and least strongly on those formed out of
violet and blue light. A number of other phaznomena are ex-
plicable on the same principles, being only particular cases as
it were of the coloured fringes or images ; I shall here mention
a few of the most remarkable.

6.