In this Experiment, if an iron Rod,
ſtanding upon the Floor, is inclined againſt the
| Loops of the ſilk Lines which ſupport the Gun-bar-
rel, in ſuch a manner as not to touch the Gun-barrel,
the electrical Fire, which paſles from the iron Rod
to the Gun-barrel, inſtead of being ſupplied con-
ftantly, comes in by ſnapping ſo long as any un-
excited Non-eleqric communicates with the Ma-
chine, bat ceaſes upon its being removed : And if
the Air is very dry, and none of the EleQricity con-
duced down the ilk Lines, the Snapping from the
iron Rod to the Gun-barrel will frequently corre-
{pond to the touching of the wooden Machine with

your


C727 ]

your Fingers, and ſtop-upon your. taking them-off,
And--this; Experiment will look-much like Magie,
even-to-thoſe, who/-are acquainted with the Opera-
tions of -Eledricity; for, if the Perſon who turns the
Wheel-of the Machine, and-ſtands upon the Cakes,
be, properly-inſtruced-- upon-your bidding the Gun-
barxcl, ſnap, he- only» puts the Toe-of his Shoe upon
the Floor, and- it ſnaps. immediately, and continues
ſnapping} as long /as-he keeps it: there; -but if -you
order-ir) ro; ceaſe ſnapping, he almoſt 7imperceptibly
replaces.(his, Foot /upon'-the'; Cakes, 1and it ceaſes:
This may; be UN as often. and ag-long as _=_
pleaſe. ,

52. Many Experiments dememitrate that if wo
Electricity 1is | -notſtopt, ' no; Sign of (its; Preſence;
cither «by, Fire or Attraction, is. obſervable inthe
non electric Bodics, ſuſpended to-the' Globes :1/thav
is, although. ever fo great 'a Quantity /be:determined
by the, Globes over theſe Bodies;7 the- (Electricity
paſles off trom/ them þleno 1500 to the Floor, from
whence, it;came :- but if the Electricity is ſtopt;” it! is
: then/accumwated upon !,theſe -Non-clectrics; 1but
this.can/ be: done only to: a certain Degree,-as is ma#
nifeſt from/a former Experiment. | ;Andiif, when this
Power, is accumulated; a Man ſtanding upon the
Floor touches: now-and-then the /Non:-clectrics with
his Finger, the - Electricity, which-is- here accumu+
lated, ſnaps, and-the Fire is always oblcrvable., But
this; Snapping is nor, when} the >clectrical Power
palles off continually; as from a Piece, of blunt Wire
hung to. the ſuſpended Gun-barrel, and the; Hand1of.
a Man, brought near it, without touching/z whereby:
the, electrical Power becomes; viſible, like! a fine

Bbbbb blue


[ 528 ]

blue Cone of Flame,” with its Point towards' the
Wire. When'the Hand js placed at a proper Di-
ſtance; the Blaſt, like that of cold Air, is therefrom
very manifeſt, ' If you do not determine the Elec-
tricity by theſe means to a Point, the Diſſipation of
it-is' general, and from all Parts of the excited Non-
electric ; but if you do, by bringing your Hand near
the Wire as before-mention'd, you ſce the Manner
of its being (diſcharged into the Floor, and lo into
the Earth. | Theſe Facts being fo, if my ' Concep-
tions are true, that the glaſs Globes circulate the
electrical Fire, which they-receive from their Fric-
tion againſt the Cuſhions, or the Hand of a- Man,
arid which is conſtantly ſupplicd to theſe laſt from
the Floor ;- the Ingreſs of the electrical ' Fire. if the
Machine, '&c. ate placed upon Electrics per ſe,
ought. ro be viſible, as well as the Egreſs\ under the
ſame Circumſtances; and 'this is demonſtrated by
Experiment,” For if, while any unexcited Non-
electrics'rouch the Gun-barrel, the Globes being in
Motion; you bring your Finger, or a'Piece of Wire
near any Part-of the Wood-Work of the Machine,
but' more. eſpecially 'the iron Axis of the Wheel ;
you obſerve the Bruſh of blue Flame ſer in from it
to the Wood-Work. We always obſerve,” in this
Experiment; that the lambent Flame from'the End
of the Wire paſſes diverging into the Machine, and
this continues fo long as the Gun-batrel 'is'touch'd. So'that here the -Office of the Globes exaly tallics
with thac of the Heart in Animals; which, as Tong
as the Quantity of Blood is ſapplied, propels it into
the Arteries, and'theſe all oyer the Syſtem'; or that
of the Pump in Hydroſtatics.