After the
shock all the wires were found magnetic, and, each had two
poles ;, the south pole being opposite to. the-north pole of the
wire next to it, and vice yersa.; and when the north pole of
a needle was touched with. a, wire, and that wire moved round
the circle to the south pole of the same needle, its motion was
opposite to that of the apparent motion of the sun. A similar experiment was tried with six needles arranged
in the, same manner.; with only, this difference, that the wire
positively electrified was below., In this case the. results were
precisely the same, except that. the- poles were reyersed; and
any. body, moved in the circle from the north to the, south
pole of the same needle, had. its direction from, east to west. A number of needles, were arranged as, polygons in dif-
ferent. circles, round the same piece of paste-board, and made
magnetic by electricity.z and it was found that in all of them,
whatever was the direction of the paste-board, whether ho-
rizontal or. perpendicular, or inclined to; the horizon, and
whatever was, the direction of the wire with respect. to the
magnetic meridian, the same law prevailed ; for instance,
when the positive wire was east, and a body was moved round
the circle from the north to the south poles of the same wire ;
its motion (beginning with the lower part of the circle) was
from north to south, or with the upper part from south
to north; and when the needles were arranged round a cy-
linder of paste-board 80 as tocross the wire, and a pencil
mark drawn. in the direction of the poles, it formed a spiral.


16 - Sir Humynry Davy on the

It was perfectly evident from these experiments, that as
many polar arrangements may be formed' as chords can be
drawn in circles surrounding the wire ; and 80 far these phe-
nomena agree with your idea of revolving magnetism ; but
I shall quit this subject, which I hope you will yourself elu-
cidate for the information of the Society, to mention some
other circumstances and facts belonging to the enquiry. Supposing powerful electricity to be passed through two,
three, four, or more wires, forming part of the same circuit
parallel to each other in the same plane, or in different
planes, it could hardly be doubted that each wire, and the
space around it, would become magnetic in the same manner
as a 8ingle wire, though in a less degree; and this I found
was actually the case. When four wires of fine platinum
were made to complete a powerful voltaic circuit, each wire
exhibited its magnetism in the same manner, and stcel filings
on the sides of the wires opposite attracted each other.