Moſt ' authors who have treated -on muſcular motion have
ſuppoſed, that it was a communicated -motion z! and that, it was

Vor, LXXVIIL E produced,


26 Dy. Forpycs's Lefture

produced by ſomething paſling by the nerves, from the brain to
the moving part. Three doQrines have been {et forth ; one,
that there is a fluid pafling along the nerves; a ſecond, that
there is a vibration ;- and a third, that the nerves are ſurrounded
with ſomething like eletric matter, in which motion runs
from the brain to the moving parts, Thoſe who have conſi-
dered this ſubje& muſt be tired of the arguments which have
been brought to refute each of theſe; for no argument from
fact has been employed to prove any. one of them : I ſhall
therefore leave them as 'mere chimeras of the | brain, I
have taken notice, that it is not requiſite for any motion to
paſs between two bodies, exciting in each other an original
motion, through or by any other matter: I have alſo ſhewn,
that muſcular motion is an original motion : it follows, that it
is not neceſſary for any motion, or communication, to paſs
through any other matter, in order to bring the muſcular fibres
into a&on,

One caſe of muſcular motionis, when a ſtimulus 1s applied
to ſome part” of the body, and a muſcle at a diſtance imme-
diately contra&ts. Tt has been ſuppoſed in this caſe, that ſome
influence was communicated to the nerve of the part where the
ſtimulus was applied, and through it to the brain, and from
the brain through the nerves of the contrafting. muſcle,
Granting, for a little, that ſome motion may: paſs along the
nerves,” and therefoze that the end of the nerve, where the
application was made, may. be the part mn which the-original
motion began,/ the ſtimulus frequently does not touch the end
of the nerve; for if vapour of volatile alkali be applied to the
noſtrils, an univerſal glow-of heat,” and increaſed curculation,
will conſtantly take place; but the vapour of the volatile alkali
could not touch the nerves of the noſtrils, the membrane

4 ; being


on Muſeular Motion. 27

being conſtantly covered with mucus, which the vapour could
not penetrate without diflolving it, which it had not time to
do, and, if it had, would have united with it, ſo as to form a
ſoap, void of any flimulating power,

If, therefore, the original motion began in the end of the
nerves of the noſtril, it muſt be excited by a ſubſtance at a
diſtance from the end of that nerve, without any communica»
Kion of motion between the ſtimulus, that is, application pro-
Aucing the motion, and the end of the nerve in which it 1s
Zxcitedz therefore, on any ſuppoſition, a ſtimulus is capable
Sf exciting a motion, in a part at a diſtance, without any
Sommunication of motion; and it is therefore not neceflary,
Jhat the nerves ſhould be at all employed in the motions-of the
:Sody excited by a ſtimulus, as it, can a& at a diſtance without
Aheir intervening. Further, that the nerves are not employed in
Khe motions excited by ſtimuli, is evident from this experiment :
Fake the heart out ofaliving animal, cut all thenerves offas cloſe
= poſlible, lay it in nearly the heat of the body of the animal,
At will continue to contra® for ſome time.