By William Hyde
Wollaston, M.D. Sec.R.S. ;\Read January 28, 1808,

Iv the paper which has just been read to the Society, Dr.
TromsoN has remarked, that oxalic acid unites to strontian as
well as to potash in two different proportions, and that the
quantity of acid combined with each of these' bases in their
super-oxalates, is just double of that which is saturated by the
same quantity of base in their neutral compounds,

As I had observed the same law to prevail in various other
instances of $uper-acid'and sub-acid salts, I thought it not un-
likely that this law'might obtain'generally in snch compounds,
and it was my design to have'pursued the 'subject with the
hope of discovering the' cause to which s0' regular a relation
might be ascribed. But since the Siler of Mr. Darron's theory of
chemical combination, as explained and illustrated by Dr.
TrnomsoN,* the inquiry which T had designed appears to be
superfluous, as all the facts that I had observed are but par-
ticular instances of the more general obseryation of Mr.
DaLTox, that in all cases the simple elements of bodies are
disposed'to unite atom to atom singly, or, if either is in excess,
it exceeds by a ratio to be expressed by some simple multiple
of the number of its atoms. * TrowsoNn's Chemistry, 3d Edition, Vol. III, p. 425. Dr. WoLLAsTON on Super-acid and Sub-acid Salts, 07

However, since those who are desirous of ascertaining the
Justness of this observation by experiment, may be deterred
by the difficulties that we meet with in attempting to deter-
mine with precision the constitution of gaseous bodies, for the
explanation of which Mr. DaLTox's theory was first con-
ceived, and since some persons may imagine that the results
of former experiments on such bodies do not accord suffi-
ciently to authorize the adoption of a new hypothesis, it may
be worth while to describe a few experiments, each of which
may be performed with the utmost facility, and each of which
affords the most direct proof of the proportional redundance
or deficiency of acid in the seyeral salts employed.