And, after he þad examined
the ways and inſtruments for all manner of Aſtronomical Ob-
ſervations, hitherto made uſe of, and confider'd of the incon-
veniences and imperfe&ions of them ; and having alſo duely
weighed the great accuratenefs and certainty, that this Ob-
ſervation of the Earths Parallax required : He next contrived
a way of making Obſervations, that mighe be free from all the
former inconveniences and exceptions,” and, as near as wight
be, fortified againſt any other that might be invented or
raiſed againſt it, This way he gives an Account of in this
preſent Tra&F, which 153 To obſerve by the paſſing of ſome
conſiderable Star near the Zenith of ſome place, whe-
ther ſuch a Star doth not at one time of the year paſs nearer to
that Zenith, and another, farther from it ; thus reaſoning with
himſelf, That, if the Farth doth move inan Orb abour'the Sun,
and that this Orb hath any ſenſible Paralax amongſt the Fixt
Stars, this muſt neceſſarily happen, eſpecially to thoſe Fixt
Stars, which are neareſt the Pole of rhe Ecliptique,
Accordingly heaffirms to have actually made four Obſervati-
ons, in this Trad deſcribed ; by which, he ſaith, *tis manifeſt,
That there is a ſenſible Parallax of the Earths Orb to the Fixt
Star in the Dragons head, and conſequently a Confirmation of
the


= - (73) |
| the Copernican Syſtem againſt the Prolemaic and Tychonic. Yet,
| likea, rigid Philoſopher, not being fully ſatisfied with theſe
Obſervarions, he declares his extraordinary deſire to have
| made others with more accurateneſs, than, * by reaſon of igcon-
yenient weather and want of health, he was able to make
'  , thoſe, However, he thinks he hath given ſufficient occaſion
and direQion to others to proſecute this noble undertaking. At theend of the explication whereof he mentions ſome things,
' whichhe looks upon as very remarkable, occurring in thoſe
| Obſervations ;, one of which was, that in the day time, the Sun
ſhining very clear, be obſerved the bright Star in the Dragons
head to paſs by the Zenith as diftinftly and clearly as if the
Sun had been ſet : which he eſteems to. have been the firlt rime
_ that the Fixt Scars were, ſeen when the Sun ſhined very bright
withour any. obſcuring of .its light by Eelipſe or otherwiſe;
that Tradition, of ſeeing the Stars in the day with" the naked
Eye out of a deep Well or Mine, being by him Judged a meer
fiction, the thing being thought by him impoſſible. »
- Laſt of all, he promiſes, that he will explain to, the Curi-
Qus a Syſtem of the World differing in many particu/ars from
any yet known, but anſwering in all things to the common ru'es
of Mechanical Motions ; which Syſtem he te e declares to de-
pendon three Suppoſitions: 1. That all Celeſtia' bodies what-
ſoever have an Attraction or Gravitating power towards their
own Centers, whereby they aitra& not only their own parts,
and keep them frowflying from them (as we way obſerve the
Farth'to do; ) but alſo all other Celeſtial bodies that are with-
in the Sphere of theivadivity, 12, That all Bodies whatſoe-
ver,that are put into a dire& ahd ſimple motion, will fo conti-
nue towove forward in a Strezzht line, till- they are by ſowe
other moreeffe&val power defleGted and bent into a motion that
| deſcribes ſome Curve line. 3: That theſe Attractive powers
| are ſo much the more powerful in operating, by how much the
nearer the body ,.. wropghe upon, is. to their own Cen-
eers. | ;

IT. M.E-

tl).


(14)

IT.