The fluid amalgam of mercury and this substance dissolves
all the metals T haveexposed to it; and in this state of union,
mercury acts on iron and platina. When the basis of potash is heated with gold, or Silver, or
copper, in a close. vessel of pure glass, it rapidly acts upon
them: and when the compounds are thrown into water, this
fluid is decomposed, potash formed, and the metals appear to
be separated unaltered. The basis of potash combines with fusible metal, and forms
an alloy with it, which has a higher point of fusjon than the
fusible metal. $4

The action of the basis' of potash upon the inflammable oily
compound bodies, confirms the other facts of the strength of
its attraction for oxygene. 7

On naphtha colourless and'recently distilled, as I have al-
ready said, it has very little power of action ; but in naphtha
that has been exposed to the air it s60n oxidates, and alkali is
formed, which unites with the naphtha into a brown soap that
collects round the globule. On the concrete oils (tallow, spermaceti, wax, for instance),
when heated, it acts slowly, coaly matter is deposited, a little
gas* is evolved, and a s0ap is formed ; but in these cages it is

* When a globule of the basis of potash is introduced into any of the fixed oils
heated, the first product is pure hydrogene which arises from the decomposition of the
water absorbed by the crust of potash during the exposure to the atmosphere. , The
gas evolved, when the globule is freed from this crust, I have found to be carbo-
nated hydrogene requiring more than an equal bulk of oxygene gas for its complete
saturation by explosion: - I have made a great number of experiments, which it would
be foreign to the object of this lecture to give in minute detail, on the agencies of the


\of 'the fixed Alkalits.. 19

necessary that a large quantity;of the oil, be employed, On
the fluid fixed. oils; it — the same effects, but. more
slowly.” + f

By heat. Jenlenes it wpigly rar fab: the yolatile oils ;
alkali is formed, a small quantity of gas is evolved, and char-
_ coal is deposited.