They then compare
the lines, and meridians, of these original diagrams with those
in their diagrams delineated from their own re-SUrVveys re-
cently made ; when it is always expected that the lines, and
meridians, of the former will coincide with those of the latter. It is evident that this coincidence could not happen if any
variation of the magnetical needle had: taken place in the
intermediate time elapsed between the making of the. first,
and of the last, survey. My business being very extensive, I
was frequently applied to in disputes at law about boundary
lines, and I had, besides, abundance of opportunities, on
other surveys, to ascertain this fact satisfactorily. From all
which I have discovered that the courses of the lines, and
meridians, delineated on the original diagrams annexed to
patents, from 1660, downwards to the present time, and of
the re-survey diagrams thereof, annexed to deeds, coincide
with, and are parallel to, the lines and meridians delineated


of the Variation of the Compass at famaica. 951

on the new diagrams from recent surveys made by the mag-
netical needle, of the same original marked lines on earth,
preserved as before described) ; 80 that whatever course is
laid down for the'line on the diagram annexed to the patent,
(and let it be supposed, for example, to be north and south,
or east and west,) upon Setting the compass in the old marked
line on earth, and directing the sights north and south, or
east and west, according to the. magnetical needle, the said
marked line on earth, originally run by the magnetical needle
130 or 140 years ago, has been found by me to be exactly in
the line, or direction with that of the compass ; consequently
no alteration of the variation could have taken place during
the whole, or any part, of that period of time in Jamaica. To this it may not be unacceptable to subjoin a . short
history of the practice of surveying in Jamaica, from the
Restoration to the present time, in order to obviate any doubt
that might arise, whether there be not a possibility of the
quantity of the magnetical yariation having been ascertained,
and allowed for, in the first diagrams annexed to patents ;
and whether the variation. of 65 degrees east, which corres-
ponds with the magnetical needle now, might not then, have
have agreed with the true meridian.