Ir is in theſe

caſes not ſufficient to'repear ſuch obſervations ſeveral
times


[629 ]
times by one's ſelf, but it is very proper, and frequently
neceſſary that, others ſhould repeat them allo, and
ſhould even ſometimes hit upon the ſime themlclyes,
And then it is, that by the means of theſe diff. rent ob-
ſcrvations carcfully compared with each other, we may
come to be better aſſured of the various fats we are
enquiring about. Belides which ,it may be noted,
4hat the number of objeas, that ſhould in this caſe
De attended to, is really too great to be, ſufficiently
bſcrved by any one ſingle perſon, ;
Z I belieye_it will not here be improper, to give
e deſcription of that apparatus I have made uſe of
Inyſelf, and by which I have been enabled to mike
3my experiments. This deſcription will render what
ÞF have further to ſay the more intelligible; and will
Serhaps contribute ro make others more capable of
Jutvin, what degree of credit ſhould be given to
he ſeveral facts, I may have occaſion to relate.
*ZThoſe alſo who ſhall be willing to obſerve regularly
Zhemſelves, cither the ſmall water-inſeQs mention'd
2n this paper, or any. others they may happen rhem-
Nelves to mect with, will not, I am perſuaded, be
Biſpleaſed with the deſcription of an appararus,
ewhich they will frequently find (eryiceable to them
Zin 'their enquiries. Ig
EZ The principal benefit I received from it myſelf
Swas, that I was thereby enabled to _obſerye with
Ethe ſeveral magnifiers of my microſcope, , ſmall
Ewater InſeQs, whilſt in a glaſs containing watcr tut-
ficient to let them live therein, much in the ſame
way as they would have done, had they (till been
in the ditches or other waters from whence they
were firſt raken. THO?"
It


[639,h

If one only propoſes to, one's ſelf, to.cxamine for
ſome moments the figures and the motions of
water-inſe&ts, one may content one's ſelf barely with
cxpoſing ſuch, in the common way to. the micro-
ſcope in_a few drops of water, But I dare Litely
aſſure, from diyers repeated, experiments, that it will
often happen, with regard to ſeyeral forts of theſe
1ſeds, that the ſimple obſeryation of them, in a
drop or two of water, will not be ſufficient to, dif-
cover-all that is ſingular /cither in. their ſhape or
motion.