Wor-


200 Dr. Marcet on the specific gravity and temperature

LASTON put the question to me, whether it was.not probable
that traces of potash might be found in sea water ? I answered
in the affirmative, and thought the fact well worthy of inves-
tigation ;* but as no one could be better qualified than the
Doctor himself to put his own suggestion to the test of ex-
periment, I supplied him with sea water, and begged of him
to favour me with his results, which he has just communi-
cated to me in a note to the following effect :

« The expectation which I expressed to you that potash
would be found in sea water as an ingredient brought down
by rivers from the decay of land-plants, is now fully con-
firmed by experiments on waters obtained from situations 80
remote from each other as to establish its universality.

«« There is no difficulty in proving the presence of this in-
gredient by muriate of platina, For though the triple mu-
riate of platina and potash is so soluble that this reagent
causes no precipitate from sea water in its ordinary state, yet
when the water has been reduced by evaporation to about 3th
part, 80 that the common salt is beginning to -separate by
crystallization, the muriate of platina then causes a copious
precipitate.

* If this precipitate be mixed with a little sugar and heated,
the platina is reduced, and muriate of potash may be sepa-
rated from it by water, and the nature of its base shown by
its yielding crystals of nitrate of potash with nitric acid.

*« I evaporated a pint of the water which you sent me (marked
No. 9, specific gravity 1026,22) taken up by Captain Ross in
* I, in my turn, put the question to Dr. WoLLAasToN whether it was not pro-

bable that minute quantities of all soluble substances in nature might be detected in

sea water ?


of sea waters, in different parts of the ocean, &c. 201

Baffin's Bay, from the depth of 80 fathoms, latitude g6*,g2',
longitude 76*,46' west. When this had been reduced to about
z5th part, I drained the liquor from the salt that had formed,
which I also washed with a little water, and by adding mu-
riate of platina to the drained liquors, I had a yellow precipi-
tate which weighed 12,4, grains.