By this it will appear, that'we had tricd many Sorts,
beſore' we had the good Fortune to meet with one,
in that exa&t Degree of Exalration neceſſary to ex-
hibit the whole Proceſs of this Vegetation ; and fo
may- others who ſhall be deſirons of "trying thefe
Experiments after us: Yet, when they © ſhall at" laft
haye obtain'd a- proper -Subje&, one accurate” View
will be ſufficient, and found to give the Key to the

whole Secret,
$ 25, When we'had ſeized' this fayoutable 'Op-
Portunity, we -faw a {mall Portion" of male" Semen
placd 'on the Microſcroſcope, ' firlt, as'it were to
deyelope and liquefy, then ſhoot out into long Fi-
laments,” ramify on every Side, theſe open and di-
vide into moving 'Globules, and trailing after them
ſomething like long Tails; theſe Tails were ſo far
from being Members given them to fyim and
ſteer by, that they eyidently caus'd in them an inſta-
ble ofcillatory Motion; and were in Effe@ nothing
more than long Filaments of the 'viſcid ſeminal
Subſtance which they neceſſarily trail'd after them;
they. were of yarious Lengths in various Animals,
and - they infenſibly, by the continual progreflive
Motion'of thoſe Animals, grew ſhorter and ſhorter,
rill tome of them appear'd without any at all; ſwim-
ming equably in the Fluid, It was then plain how
theſe Animals were to'be claſ&d; their -Origin was
Clearly to be deriv'd from Principles contain'd iow
$21s


C1.

this Matter, either by..an; Evolution of, organical
Parts, as Mr. de Buffon ſuppoſed, or by a real Vege-
tation, as 1 thought, of the ſame kind with thoſe I
had before. obſery'd in my Intuſions;  tho', more
-prompr,. becauſe, the | Matter | was - more | exalted :
conſequently. the ſpermatic; Animals were of the
ſame kind as all other microſcopical, Animals, their
Origin the lame, their Influence nothing, more-in
Generation, nor any otherwiſe condudting,,to its
Cauſe, than as Effeas of thoſe Principles inthe Se-
men, Which alone are:the truc,and adcquate, Cauſe p
of it, Sce Fig.11... 1, Y
Theſe vegetative Powers, which, from the very 4
Beginning of my.Obſeryations, 1 had found to reſide |
in all Subſtances animal or yegetable, and in eyery
Part of. thoſe ;Subſtances,; as far,as the; ſmalleſt mi-
.croſcopical Point, I,had jt. this time certain Proofs
of; tho' not. ſo. plain, and. inconteſtable as thoſe I
procur'd a few Days before Mr. de Buffon.left Pa-
ris for the, Country, and which I proſecuted after his
Departure. Theſe 1 communicated to, him, in few
Words the, Night betore he began, his Journey, yet he
was not, at that time acquainted with any ſpecial, De-
tail of the many Singularities that attend theſe latter
Vegetations, for 1 had but juſt then made andenter'd
upon the Diſcovery of them myſelf. Iam obliged the
more, particularly, to obſerve this,, becauſe the many
Conſequences he has ſince drain, as, well as mylclf,
and which, without any mutual Communication, hap-
pen'd to, tally, with and ſeemingly to flow. from, the
Diſcoverics, were not in FaCt deduced from a circum-
ſtantiated Know lege of theſe new Phenomena, which
he had not, but from this one Principle, that there
WF



WW

is a. real produttive Force in" Nature ; nv which
we had both long ſince agreed,” however we may
have differed in explaining that Action : For whether
it be by.an Evolution and Combination of organical
Parts, as Mr. de Buffon ſuppoſes, or by a real vege-
tating Force reſiding in eyery microſcopical Point,
may be. probably, far beyond the Power of Micro.
ſcopes to determine. © But as the Principle from
which we depart is intirely the ſame, it muſt nece(-
arily lead to ſimilar Thoughts, and ſimilar: Conſe-
quences.

$26. My, firſt Proofs. therefore were. drawn

from a cloſe Attendance to all the common Infu-
Z Lions, particularly that of Wheat pounded in a mar-
? ble Mortar. .It was: plain from them all, that after
ſome. time allow'd to the. Water to call off the
z, Salts and yolatile Parts, which evaporated copiouſly ,

the Subſtance.: became ſofter, more divided, and
more attenuated : To, the, naked Eye, or to the
Touch, it appear'd a gelatinous Matter, bur in the
: Microſcope was ſeen toiconſiſt of innumerable Eila-

ments ; and then, it was that the Subſtance was in
its higheſt .Point of.