IF fo, it is' ſomewhat ſimilar to the breathing of fiſh, it not
being the water which produces the effet there, but the air contained in it
This I proved by experiments, and is mentioned by Dr, PxIEsTLEY, q

which,


-which, I believe, is peculiar to the large and ſmall Whale-
\hone Whales.
'* Although it is not the external air which they inſpire that
-produces ſmell, I believe it is the air retained in the noſtril
{2ut of the current of reſpiration, which by being impregnated
With the odoriferous particles contained in the water during the
& of blowing, is applied to the organ of ſmell, It might be
ſppoſed, that they could ſmell the air on the ſurface of the
Sater by every inſpiration, as animals do on land ; and pro-
bly they may: but this will not give them the power to
Mel! the odoriferous particles of their prey in the water at any
pth ; and as their organ is not fitted to be affeed by the ap-
{Mication of water, and as they cannot ſuck water into the noſtril,
{Fthout the danger of its paſſing into the lungs, it cannot
E by its application to this organ that they are enabled to ſinell,
Z Some have the power of throwing the water from the mouth
Hrough the noſtril, and with ſuch force as to raiſe it thirty
&ct high: this muſt anſwer ſome important purpoſe, although
{t immediately evident to us.
> As the organ appears to be formed to ſmell air only, and as
conceive the ſmelling of the external air could not be of uſe
a ſenſe, 1 therefore believe, that they do not ſmell in inſpi-
tion ; yet let us conſider how they may be ſuppoſed to ſmell
Fe odoriferous particles of the water,
'The organ of ſmell is out of the dire& road of the current
7 air in inſpiration ; it is alſo out of the current of water
hen they ſpout ; may we not ſuppoſe then, that this finus
ntains air, and as the water paſſes in the a of throwing, it
ut, that it impregnates this reſervoir of air, which imme-
ately affe&ts the ſenſe of ſmell. This operation is probably
»rformed in the time of expiration, becaule it is faid that this
: , wateg

k ; Strufure and Oeconomy of Whales, _



FY
43S *' Mr. HoxTten's Obſervations on the Þ
water is ſometimes very offenſive; but all this I only give ay*
conjecture, *
If the above ſolution is juſt, then only thoſe which havethe |
organ-of ſmell can ſpout, a fact worthy of enquiry. -
The organ of ſmell would appear to be leſs neceflary in theſs -
animals than in thoſe which live in air, ſince ſome are wholly |
deprived of it; and the organ in thoſe which have it is :
tremely ſmall, whew compared with that of other animals, as-
well as the nerve which is to receive the impreſſion, as as
obſerved above. ;

Of the Senſe of Hearing. The ear is conſtrudted much upon the ſame principle as in the
quadruped ; but as it differs in ſeveral reſpe&s, which it is nes.
ceflary to particulariſe, to convey'a perfe@ idea of it the whole:
ſhould be deſcribed. As this would exceed the limits of this P
per, I ſhall content myſelf with a general deſcription, takin
notice of thoſe material points in which it differs from that ly
the quadruped.  _
This organ conſiſts of the ſame parts as in the quadruped
an external opening, with a membrana tympani, an Euſ
chian tube, a tympanum with its proceſſes, and the ſmal
bones.