It is not, however, intended in
Bs Paper to give a particular accqunt of the firuQure of all
Ie animals of this order, which I have had an opportunity of
' mining : I propoſe, at preſent, chiefly to confine myſelf to
teral- principles, giving the great outlines as far as. I am
zquainted with them, minuteneſs being "WF neceflary in the
Weltigation of particular parts.
\Vor, LXXVIIL Hhh In



476 _ "Mr. HonTex's Obſervations on the
In my account I ſhall pay ſome attention to the relations of
men who have given faCts without knowing their caules, whens!!
ever I find that ſuch fats can be explained upon true principles
of the animal economy, but no further. y

This order of animals has nothing peculiar to fiſh, except
living in the ſame element, and being endowed with thel
ſame powers of progreflive motion as thoſe fiſh that are
intended to move with a conſiderable velocity : for I bes
keve, that all that come to the ſurface of the water (whigl
this order of animals muſt do) have conſiderable progrefſi
motion ; and this reaſoning we may apply to birds ; for tho
which ſoar very high have the greateſt progreflive motion, 2

Although inhabitants of the waters, they belong to t
ſame clals as quadrupeds, breathing air, being furniſhed wit
lungs, and all the other parts peculiar to the ceconomy of t ?
claſs, and having warm blood ; for we may make this gener
remark, that in'the different claſſes of animals there is ney
any mixture of thoſe parts which are effential to life, nor
their different modes of fenfation, q

I ſhall divide what is called the ceconomy of an anin f
firſt, into thoſe parts and aftions which reſpedt its intern
funQions, and on which life immediately depends, as gro
waſte, repair, ſhifting or changing of parts, &c. the org
of reſpiration and ſecretion, in which we may include

- powers of propagating the ſpecies. Secondly, into thoſe parts and aftions which reſped exter!
obje&s, and which are variouſly conſtrufted, according”
the kind of matter with which they are .to be connect
whence they vary more than thoſe of the firſt divi
Theſe are the parts for progreſſive motion, the organs of


Strufture and Ozconomy of Whales. 377

nd the organs of digeſtion ; all which either a&, or are ated

upon, by external matter.

© This variation from external cauſes in many inſtances in»

Wences the ſhape of the whole, or particular parts, even

F giving a peculiar form to ſome which belong to the firſt order

of ations, as the heart, which in this tribe, | in the Seal, Otter,

ec, is flattened, becauſe the cheſt is flattened for the purpoſe

of ſwimming. The contents of the abdomen are not only

I dapted to the external form ; but their direCtion in the cavity

236, in ſome inſtances, regulated by it.