I frequently endeavoured to change these habits
by changing the male; but always without success ; and ]
have in some instances observed the offspring of one 5sex,
though obtained from different males, to exceed those of the
other, in the proportion of five or six, and even seven to one. When, on the contrary, I have attended to the numerous off-
spring of a single bull, or ram, or horse, I have never Seen

MDCCCIX, gF


398 Mr. KN1enr on the comparative Trifluence of

© any considerable-difference irr the number'of offspring of either
Sex.” I anv therefore disposed to! believe that: the sex of the
offspring is given by the female- parent; and the probability
of this' scems obvious in fishes;' and several other species'of
animals which breed in water; and though the evidence af-
forded by the facts adduced is not by any means of sufficient
weight to decide the question, it' probably much exceeds-all
that can be placed in the opposite'scale. In oviparous animals, I have: had reason tothink the influence
of the female parent quite-as' great, as'amongst the viviparous
tribes, though my observations/have been more limited, andless
conclusive: Inviviparous animals; the sizeof the foetus is affected
by the influence of the male parent, and, in'some'instances, not
inconsiderably; but the size and/form' of the'eggs of birds do
not appear to be' in any degree changed or modified, by the
influence'of the male;;-and therefore the size of the offspring,
at'the birth, must be regulated wholly by the-female-parent;
and this circumstance permanently affects" the: form and'cha-
racter'of the” offspring. The-eggs of birds, andthose of fishes
and insects (if such can properly be called eggs), appear to
resemble'the' seeds' of plants;'in having their forms and bulk
wholly regulated by the female'parent ; 'butnevertheless'their
formation appears to depend'on'very different laws.” For the
eggs, both of birds and of fishes'and insects;/attain their per-
fect size in total independence of the male; and the cicatricula,
the vitellus, and the chalaze have appeared (I believe) to the
most accurate observers, to be as well organised in the unim-
pregnated, as in the' impregnated egg : in the $eed, on the
contrary, every thing relative to. its' internal organisation
appears dependent on the male” parent.” SPALLANZANI' has,


male and female Parents on their Offipring. 399

however, stated, that many plants produced well organised
seeds, and even seeds which vegetated perfectly, under cir-
-cumstances in which it is not easy to conceive how the pollen
of the male plant or flower could have been present.