GarrTasmoRt's Remarks on

relation of this kind, when AmBRosE PAREY, a very honeſt
though credulous man, tells, that in his time, in the pariſh' of
Sceaux, near Chambellay between Sarte and Maine, the mo».
ther of the then living lord of the noble houſe of Marg. MeurE had, in the firſt year of her marriage, brought forth”
twins, in the ſecond triplets, in the third four, in the fourth”
five, and in the fifth year fix children at one birth, of which!
labour ſhe died ; and when he adds, that of theſe /af? fix one is”
yet alive, and is now Lord of, Maldemeure, how can we dif=*
þlieve this circumſtance? This ſtory may very poſſibly be ins
accurately ſtated, yet the whole cannot be a fiction, as it wat
publiſhed among the very people, and in the age when it hap
pened, and never has been fince contradited ſo far as we
know. Though the wonderful regularity of the progreſs gives att
appearance of fable to the whole, yet we muſt believe the
thing to be poſſible : and that this then exiſting lord might be
the only one of the fix who lived long enough to be born al
the full time, in a mature ſtate; the whole, or moſt of the
other five, as we have ſometimes ſeen in cafes of twins, hay
ing been born as dead abortions, which had never arrived to
a bulk ſufficient to interfere with his growth.
[ leave the learned to pay what degree of credit they pleaſe

to the wonderful relations we read of the extreme fertility of

the women of Egypt, Arabia, and other warm countries,” as

recorded by AR1sToTLE; by PLixy, and by ALBuCas15, when

three, four, five, and fix children are faid to have been fre:

quently born at once, and the greateſt part'of theſe reared ta

maturity ; and will only fay, that though a late traveller Mk

Savary gives ample teſtimony of the extreme! general ferth

lity of Egypt in all vegetable and animal produQions, and pat .

ticularly



] I . @ Caſe of numerous Births, 357
ticularly of its abundant population, he mentions nothing of
the numerous births recorded. by the ancient naturaliſts ang
hiſtorians.

- Of fill more fruitful births T will paſs. over a number of ins
ſtances which I could adduce from Jonavnzs Rnopivs, Lvcag
| ScHROECKIUS, CAaSPAR BAUHIN, JoHANNEs Her.vicws, Bray

ext, and others, and finiſh with one caſe more, recorded by
Pbruvs BorELL in his Second Century of Obſervations, pub=
FShed at Paris in the year 1656; a colleftion indeed filled with
| any wonderful tories, though by a man of equal integrity
Hd ingenuity : he tells us, that/in.the year 1650, juſt five
[WW tetre, the lady of the then preſent Lord Darke produced;
| Kone birth eight perfe&t children, which he owns was a very:
Fnuſual event in that country,
SI think it totally unneceffary to purſue this enquiry farther z:
bt muſt obſerve, that the preſent is the only caſe I have
'Hund, where the children were all females; that the males
have in all the other caſes been at leaſt equal, and generally
He moſt numerous ; that in many of them, at leaſt a part was
Sad born; and that moſt commonly the reſt died in a ſhort
Hme, It is thence clear, that thoſe numerous births are- cer--
inly unfavourable to population, as very few indeed of thoſe
aldren can be carried to near the full term. of pregnancy, and
Swer ſtill to that degree of ſtrength that admits of their being
Eared, where more than two are-born at one time.
' As from Mr. Joun HunTzs's very curious Experiments and:
Obſervations, read lately to this Society, on the Procreation of
Ine, we are led-to believe, that a certain determined number
'of ova, capable of receiving male impregnation, are originally
in each ovarium ; and which number, when exhauſted,
the female conſtitution has no power to renew 3. if this be the
' true:



358 Dr.