From the * fſplinters that had been thrown, off, in many .
*< places, particularly where the timber of the cart was con-
4 nefted by nails or cramps of iron,” and from the various-
other effe&ts mentioned in Mr. Bxypoxs's Paper, it is moreover

in evident, that there was a violent motion of the eleQtical fluid in
allz,


| 13% Farl Sraxnore's Remarks on Mr, BryDoNE's
All, or (atleaſt) in different parts of the cart, and of the
dies of the man and-horſes, although there were no lightniny
& 9. Wonderful as theſe combined facts may appear, A
wncommon as they certainly are in this country, they a
nevertheleſs, caſy to be explained by means of that particula
ſpecies of ele&rical ſhock, which I have diſtinguiſhed in
Principles ® of Elefticity (publiſhed in 1779) by the appell
tion of the © elefrical returning froke :” and although at t
tine I wrote that Treatiſe, I had it not in my power to pr
duce any inſtance of perſons or animals having been killed y
the 'very peculiar -manner fince related in Mr. BxvpoN
Paper; I did, however (from my experiments mentioned 1
that Book), venture to afſert, with confidence, that +, '*
«perſons be ſtrongly ſaperinduced- by the electrical atmoſphe
-c« of a cloud, they \may (under circumſtances ſimilar to tho
«explained. iu that Treatiſe) receive a very ſtrong ſhock,
« knocked down, or be even Killed, at the inſtant that t
«-dloud diſcharges, with an exploſion, its eleQricity, whethe
« the lightning falls near the very place where thoſe perſol
« ate, or at a very conſiderable diſtance from that place, .
«© whether the cloud-be poſitively or negatively clefrified,”
And 1 moreover ſtated [that {, 4 whether the, diſtance
« tween:the perſon| fo circumſtanced, and, the, place-where t
-«« lightning/falls, be fifty or an hundred) yards, .or one.mile,
« two /tniles, or "three miles, or more, the truth, of the

* See Principles of EleAricity, containing divers new Theorems and Ex!
"ments, together with an'Analyfis of the ſuperior Advantages of high and poin
' Condu@ors ; "by Caartes Viſcount \Manox, |F; R, Ss from-$-202..to |\ 34
Uinelufively.

-+-See Principles of 'Eleftricity, 4.311,

4 See Prinejples of - EleQricity, & 313,
786,


* Hecount of a Thunder:ſtorm in Scetland; x35

« neral propoſition there laid down would not be any wiſe

« affeQted.” ;

I have alfo explained, in that Treatiſe, how a ftill more
ſingular effe&t might be produced, namely, how * * an explo-
« ſion, which happens in one place, may cauſe in a ſecond.
« place (at a very conſiderable diſtance from the firſt place)
« a ſudden returning ſtroke, which may knock down,. or even
« kill, perſons and animals. at that ſecond place; at the ſame
=y time that other perſons, or other anirnals, ſituated ina third

place, that 15 even immediately between 'the firſt place:

I where the lightning falls, and the ſecond place (juſt men-

EY tioned) where the ſhock of the returning ſtroke happens,

B# ſhall receive no detriment whatever.”

Ej $ 10, Haying, in my Principles of Elefricity +, explained at

Arge the nature of the returning firoke, T will not treſpaſs upon

Ahe time of this Society, by repeating the account of any of

Zhe various experiments that I made, to prove the poſlible

Sxiſtence of ſuch an ele&rical ſtroke ; but I will, at once,

Spply the general laws, which I have (therein) laid down, to

She particular phznomena related by Mr. Ba YDONE-

# But, before I ſpeak of the accident of LavDBR, which ap-

Spears to me-to have been occafioned by a returning firoke, pro-

Seeding from an aſemblage of clouds, 1 will fay a few words

Zupon one or two, other fas, mentioned in Mr.