A And I muſt begin by acquainting you, that having never
been thoroughly ſatisfied with reſpect to the origin of the de-
phlogiſticated air produced upon expoſing freſh vegetables in
water to the aCtion of the ſun's rays, according to the method
of Dr. Incex-novsz, my doubts, with reſpe& to the opinion
generally entertained of its being elaborated in the veſſels of the

plant,


118 Sir Benjamin TrowpsoN's Experiments

plant, inſtead of being removed, were rather confirmed by the |
reſult of the experiments of which I have given an account in
the foregoing letter ; and however diſpoſed I was to adopt the”
beautiful theory of the purification of the atmoſphere by the”
vegetable kingdom, 1 was not willing to admit a fa& which”
has been brought in ſupport of it, till it ſhould appear to me?
to have been demonſtrated by the moſt decifive experiments. ? That the freſh leaves of certain vegetables, expoſed in water.
to the aQtion of the ſun's rays, cauſe a certain quantity of”
pure air to be produced, is a fa& which has been put beyond?
all doubt ; but it does not appear to me to be by any means fo.
clearly proved, that this air is © elaborated in the plant by the”
<« powers of vegetation ;”—* phlogiſticated or fixed air being
< firſt abſorbed or imbibed by the plant as food, and the dephlo-"
« oiſticated air being rejected as an excrement :” for, beſides
that many other ſubſtances, and in which no elaboration, ot
circulation, can poſlibly be ſuſpefed to take place, cauſe the *
water in which they are expoſed to the aftion of light to yield
dephlogiſticated air as well as plants, and even in much greater
quantities, and of a more eminent quality, the circumſtances
of the leaves of a vegetable, which, accuſtomed to grow in air,
are ſeparated from its ſtem, and confined in water, are fo un-
natural, that I cannot conceive, that they can perform the®
fame funRions in ſuch different ſituations. :
Among many facts which have been brought in ſupport of ©
the received opinion of the elaboration of the air in the veſſels
of the plants in the experiments in queſtion, there is one upon;
which great ſtreſs has been laid, which, I think, requires fur=
ther examination. |
The freſh healthy leaves of vegetables, ſeparated from the”
plant, and expoſed in water to the ation of the ſun's rays,

5 appear, |



on the Preduttion of Dephlogiſticated Air, 119
appear, by all the experiments which have hitherto been made,
'to furniſh air only for @ ſhort time; after a day or two, the
leaves changing colour, ceaſe to yield air : and this has been

conceived to ariſe from the powers of vegetation being de-
ſtroyed ; or, in other words, the death of the plant ; and from
hence it has been inferred, with ſome degree of plauſibility,
not only that the leaves aftually retained their vegetative powers
Fr ſome time after they were ſeparated from their ſtock, but
That it was in conſequence of the exertion of theſe powers,
Bat the air, yielded inthe experiment, was produced.

- But I have found, that though the leaves, expoſed in water
© the aQtion of light, aftually do ceaſe to furniſh air, after a
Ertain time, yet that they regain this power after a ſhort in-
Erval, when they furniſh (or rather cauſe the water to furniſh)
[More and better air than at firſt, which can hardly be accounted
{5 upon the ſuppoſition that the air is e/aborated in the veſſels
Bt the plant,

= Experiment N* 29. Z A globe, containing 46 cubic inches, filled with freſh ſpring,
Wer and two peach leaves, was expoſed in the window to the
Sion of the ſun's rays, 10 days ſucceſſively (the weather
Scing in general fine), when the following appearances took
Place,

E. The 1ft and 2d day, a certain quantity of air was produced,
About as much as in former like experiments.