In mixing muriatic acid gas with carbonic acid, or oxygene,
or hydrogene, the gases being in their common states, as to:
moisture, there was always a cloudiness produced; doubtless:
owing to the attraction of their water to form liquid muriatic
acid. On fluoric acid gas no such effect was occasioned. This fact,
at first view, might be supposed to shew, that the hydrogene
evolved by the action of potassium upon. fluoric acid gas, is

* Page 98.

+ These facts and the other facts of the same kind, explain the difficulty of the
decomposition of the metallic muriates in common processes of metallurgy. 'They
likewise explain other phenomena in the agencies of muriaric salts. In all cases
when a muriatic salt is decomposed by an acid, ard muriatic acid gas set free, there
appears to be a double affinity, that of the acid for the basis, and of the muriatic acid

for water ; pure muriatic acid does not sxem capable of being displaced by any other
acid,


on the Nature of certain Bodves. 103

owing to water in actual combination with it, like that in mu-
riatic acid gas, and which may be essential to its elastic state ;
but it is more probable, from the smallness of the quantity,
and from the difference of the quantity in different cases,
that the moisture is merely in that state of diffusion or solu-
tion in which it exists in gases in general, though from the
disposition of water to be deposited in this acid gas in the. .
form of an acid solution, it must be: either less in quantity, or
in a less free state, 80 as to require for its exhibition much
more delicate hygrometrical tests. The facts advanced in this Lecture, afford no new argu-
ments in favour of an idea to which I referred in my last
communication to the Society, that of hydrogene being a
common principle in all inflammable bodies ; and except in
instances which are still under investigation, and concerning
which no precise conclusions can as yet be drawn, the gene-
ralization of Lavorster happily applies to the explanation of
all the new phenomena.