I put into an earthen retort some of this waxy matter, to
which I added some finely powdered charcoal; on applying a
pretty strong fire, a small quantity of an oily fluid came over,
which concreted on cooling; after which came over a prodi-
gious quantity of thick white vapours, which were very suffo-
cating and offensive. I had a copper retort made, for the purpose of trying some
experiments on this matter. | I put a small quantity in'o it, and
placed it on a common fire; there came over first a limpid
fluid like water, without much smell ; on the addition of more
heat, there came over an oily fluid, which s00n coagulated, of
a firmer consistence than when put in, and coloured of a beau-
tiful green by the copper ; this last circumstance proves that
it contained no ammonia.

' Having procured some very pure quicksilver, I took a glass,
which contained about 10 '/pounds of that fluid, with which I


Animal Substances into a fatty Matter. 241

filled it; I inverted it in a bason, which contained the same
fAluid; I introduced a small piece of lean meat, and also a small
quantity of water ; at the end of about six weeks, 89 great a
quantity of gas was disengaged as nearly to occupy the whole
of the vessel ; the meat had assumed a white appearance. Since I mentioned my former experiments on the cow, _
which I had submitted to the action of running water, I have
A observed a few facts relating to the changes which took place.
8 This cow was placed in a situation where the water could come
E twice every day, as before described ; over it s0me loose earth
S was thrown : after it had remained some time in this place, I
Zused frequently to push a stick through this earth to the cow ;
Zovery time this was done there came up a prodigious quantity
Z of air, after I had suffered it to remain quiet for a short time.
ie = Since 1 put this cow in this situation, I have had two horses
Sand another cow placed under the same circumstances; in all
'S 5 of them this disengagement of air takes place ; ; this air is ex-
+ tremely offensive.
2 In the former cow the whole muscular part seemed changed ;
Zand from the substance formed I have procured a very large
= quantity of a waxy substance by means of the nitrous acid. Z &S Though the nitrous acid takes off the greatest part of the foetor
Z from the substance thus formed, yet it gives it a yellow co-
5 Jour which is with difficulty removed, and a peculiar smell,
Z evidently similar to the smell of the acid employed, which
mere washing and the addition of alkalies will not entirely re-
move. My father, who has been indefatigable in his\attempts to
whiten this substance, finds that the following process will
make it yery pure, and very beautiful, though not so white as


242 Mr.