The principle to be established in order to determine the
time of emptying a vessel through an orifice at the bottom, is
the relation between the velocity of the fluid at the orifice and
the altitude of the fluid above it. Most writers upon this sub-
ject have considered the column of fluid over the orifice as the
expelling force, and from thence some have deduced the velo-
city at the orifice to be that which a body would acquire in
falling down the whole depth of the fluid; and others that ac-
quired in falling through half the depth, without any regard

E2


28 Mr. Vixce's Observations on the Theory

to the magnitude of the orifice ; whereas it is manifest from
experiment, that the velocity at the orifice, the depth of the
fluid being the same, depends upon the proportion which the
magnitude of the orifice bears to the magnitude of the bottom
of the vessel, supposing, for instance, the vessel to be a cylin-
der standing on its base ; and in all cases the velocity, ceteris
"paribus, will depend upon the ratio between the magnitude of
the orifice and that of the surface of the fluid. Conclusions
thus contrary to matter of fact show, either that the principle
assumed is not true, or that the deductions from it are not
applicable to the present case. The most celebrated theories
upon this subject are those of D. BerxoviLLi and M. D'ALEM-
BERT ; the former deduced his conclusions from the principle
of the conservalio virium vivarum, or as he calls it, the equali-
tas inter descensum actualem ascensumque potentialem, where by
the descensus actualis he means the actual descent of the centre
of gravity, and by the ascenszs polentialis he means the ascent
of the centre of gravity, if the fluid which flows out could have
its motion directed upwards ; and the latter from the principle
of the equilibritm of the fluid, This principle of M. p'ALEM-
BERT leads immediately to that assumed by D. Bernoviiii,
and consequently they both deduce the same fluxional equa-
tion, the fluent of which expresses the relation between the
velocity of the fluid at the orifice, and the perpendicular alti-
tude of the fluid above it. How far the principles here as-
sumed can be applied in our reasoning upon fluids, can only be
determined by comparing the conclusions deduced from them
with experiments.