I have already; stated,-that -the// greatest,number of teeth
( those' of the hyana-excepted) belong; to,the.ruminating ani-
mals; from'which-it /is-to-.be; inferred-that they; formed. the
ordinary prey-of the: hy2nas. I have-also, to, add, ;that.very
ſew of the teeth of these- animals; bear marks of age ;; they
seem to have perished by.a violent, death-in;the.yigour of
life. - With-respect |to-the horns Jof deer; that -appear;to. have
fallen off by: necrosis,-it .is.-probable; that| the hyznas | found
them thus shed;/and-dragged/them;home- for, the,purpose of
gnawing them in their-denz-and;to-animals s0-fondLof bones,
the-spongy-interior of horns; of - this-kind-would: not be unac-
ceptable;'-I found 1a fragment; of »stags'. horn, in 80.small a
recess: of the cave, that- it-never -could. have been introduced,
unless singly;.and-after-separation. from-the-head;, and near
it was the molar tooth of an elephant. -I-have, seen, no re-
mains of horns/of -oxen,.and perhaps- there .are/ none, for the
bony portion; of their interior being of a porous spongy nature,
would probably have been-eaten by the hy@nas, whilst the
outer case, being of a-similar ; composition to hair and hoofs,

®* I have been informed by an officer in India, that passing by a tiger*s den in the
absence of the tiger, he' examined the interior, and found in the middle of it a large
portion of stone on which the tiger reposed,/ to/be; worn: smooth and poliched by the
friction of his body. The /same thing may be Seen,on marble steps and altars, and
even metallic statues in places" of worship that are favourite objects of pilgrimage:
they are often deeply worn and polished by the knees, and even lips of pilgrims, to a
degree that, without experience of the fact; we could scarcely have anticipated. Bones discovered in a cave at Kirkdale, in Yorkshire. 195

would not long have/escaped total” decomposition. For the
same reason the horn of the rhinoceros; being'merely a mass
of compacted' hair=like fibres, has-never'been-found fossil in
gravel beds with the bones"of that-animal;'nor does\it occur
in the cave at Kirkdale.'' I have beer told that sheeps? horns
laid'on land for manure will be consumed- in'+ten -or-a-dozen
years; the calcareous matter of |bone- being'nearly allied to
lime-stone, is the only' portion of animal bodies that occurs in
a fossil state,” unless' "when preserved,/like the Siberian ele-
phant, of the same'extinct/species with that of Kirkdale, by
being frozen in ice, or buried/in peat.