Both the roof and floor,
for many yards from the entrance, are composed of horizontal
strata of lime-stone, uninterrupted by the slightest appear-
ance of fissure, fracture, or stony rubbish of any kind ; but
farther in, the roof and sides become irregularly arched, pre-
senting a very rugged and grotesque appearance, and being
studded with pendent and roundish masses of chert and sta-
lactite ; the bottom of the cavern is visible only near the
entrance; and its irregularities, though apparently not great,
have been filled up throughout to a nearly level surface, by
the introduction of a bed of mud or sediment, the history of
which, and also of the stalactite, I shall presently describe. (See Plate X VI. fig. 2). The fact already mentioned of the engulphment of the Rical
Beck, and other adjacent rivers, as they cross the lime-stone,
showing it to abound with many similar cavities to those at
Kirkdale, renders it likely that, hereafter, similar deposits of
bones may be discovered in this same neighbourhood; but
accident alone can lead to such discovery, as it is probable
the mouths of these caverns are buried under diluvian sand
and gravel, or post=diluvian detritus ; so that nothing but their

MDCCCCXXI1, Aa


178 The Rev. Mr. BucxLanp's account of Fossil Teeth and

casual intersection by some artificial operations, will lead to
the knowledge of their existence ; and in this circumstance,
we also see a reason why so few cayerns' of this kind have
hitherto been discovered, although it is probable that many
such may exist. In all these cases, the bones found in caverns are never
mineralised, but simply in the state of grave bones, or incrusted .
by stalactite; and have no farther connection with the rocks
themselves, than that arising from the accident of having
been lodged in their cavities, at periods long subsequent to
the formation and consolidation of the strata in which these
cavities occur,

On entering the cave at Kirkdale (see Plate XVI. fig. 2),
the first thing we observe is a sediment of mud, covering
entirely its whole bottom to the average depth of about
a foot, and entirely covering and concealing the subjacent
rock, or actual floor of the cavern.