BuckLanvy's account of Fossil Teeth and

preservation they possess. Those that lay long uncovered
at the bottom of the den, have undergone a decay propor-
tionate to the time of their exposure ; others that have lain
only a short time before the introduction of the diluvian mud,
have been preserved by it almost from even incipient decom-
position. i
Thus the phenomena of this cave seem referable to a
period in which the world was inhabited by land animals,
bearing a general resemblance to those now existing, before
the last inundation of the earth; but s0 completely has the
violence of that treniendous convulsion destroyed and remo-
delled the form of its' antediluvian surface, that. it is only in
caverns that have been protected from its ravages, that we
may hope to find undisturbed evidence of events in the period
immediately preceding it. "Che bones already described, and
the stalagmite formed before the introduction” of the diluvial
mud, are what I consider to be the products of the period in
question. It was indeed probable, before the discovery of this
cave, from the abundance in which the remains of similar
species occur in superficial gravel beds, which cannot be re-
ferred to any other than a diluvial origin, that such animals
were the antediluvian inhabitants of this country ; but the
proof was imperfect, as it has been said they might have
been drifted or floated hither by the waters, from warmer
latitudes: but the facts developed in this charnel house of the
antediluvian forests of Yorkshire, show'that there was a long
succession of years in which these animals had been the prey
of the hyenas, which like themselves at that time, must have
inhabited these regions of the earth; and it is in' the diluvial
wreck occurring in 8uch latitudes, that similar bones have been


\ Bones discovered in a cave at Kirkdale, in Yorkshire, 920g

found buried, in the state of grave bones, over great part of
northern Europe,/as well as North America and Siberia. The
catastrophe producing this gravel, appears. to have been the
last event that has operated generally to modify the surface
of the earth, and the few local and; partial changes that have
succeeded it, such-as the formation of deltas, terraces, tufa,
torrent-gravel and peat-bogs, all conspire to show, that the
period of their commencement was . subsequent to_ that at
which the diluvium was formed.*

* It was $tated in describing the locality of the cave at Kirkdale, and on compar-
ing it with the fact of its containing the remains of large and small aquatic animals,
that there was probably a lake in this part of the country at the period when they
inhabited it ; and this hypothesis is rendered probable by the form and disposition of
the hills that $till encircle the Vale of Pickering. (See Map, Plate XV.)

Inclosed on the south, the west, north-west, and north, by the lofty ranges of the
Wolds, the Howardian hills, the Hambleton hills, and Eastern Moorlands, the waters
of this vale must either run eastward to Filey Bay, or inland towards York ; and such
is the superior elevation of the strata along the coast, that the sources of the Der-
went, rising almost close to the sea, near Scarborough and Filey, are forced to run
west and southward fifty miles inland away from the sea, till falling into the Ouse,
they finally reach .it by turning again eastward through the Humber. | The only
outlet by which. this, drainage is accomplished, is the gorge at New Malton ; and
though it is not possible to ascertain what was the precise extent of this antedilu-
vian lake, or how much of the low districts, now constituting the Vale of Pickering,
may have been excavated by the same diluvian waters that produced the gorge ; it
is obvious, that without the existence of this gorge, much of the district within
it would be laid under water ; and it is equally obvious, that the gorge is referable
to the agency of diluvian denudation, the ravages of which have not, perhaps, left
a single portion of the antediluvian surface of the whole earth, which is not torn
and re-modelled, $0 as to have lost all traces of the exact features it bore antecedently
to the operations of the deluge. It is probable, that inland lakes were much more numerous than they are at pre-
sent, before the excavation of the many gorges by which our modern rivers make
their escape; and this is consistent with the frequent occurrence of the remains of
the hippopotamus in the diluvian gravel of England, and of various parts of Europe.


204 The Rev.