Sir EVERARD Home describes these teeth. and: bones
as belonging to the rhinoceros, deer, and a-species of bear,
Mr. Wnipsy is of opinion, that! neither of these :caverns
had the appearance of ever' having had\-any opening to the
surface, /or .communication-with-it-whatever; an. opinion in
which I can by no means acquiesce; though I think it proba-
ble that the openings had, as at Kirkdale, been long ago
filled up with rubbish, mud, stalactite, or fragments 'of rock
re-united, as sometimes happens, into a breccia as solid as the
original rock, and overgrown with grass. It is now too late
to appeal to the evidence 'of facts, as the rockin which the
cave. existed-is entirely removed z-but the circumstances of
similar caverns that-have- communication with the 'surface,
either open or concealed, both in'this/neighbourhood; and'in
compact lime-stone rocks of all ages and formations, andiin all


Bones discovered in a cave at Kirkdale, in Yorkshire. 215

countries, added to the identity of -species and undecayed
state of the animal remains which. they contain, render the
argument from analogy perfect, to show that the bones at
Oreston are not coeval, and have only an accidental connec-
tion with the rock in the cavities of which they were'found. It by no means follows, from the certainty of the bones
having been dragged in by beasts of prey to the small ca-
vern at Kirkdale, that those of similar animals must have
been introduced in all other cases in the same manner; for,
as these animals were the antediluvian inhabitants of the
countries in which the caves - occur, it-is possible, that some
may have retired into:them to. die, others have fallen into the
fissures by accident and there perished, and others have been
washed in by the diluvial waters. - By some one or more of
these three latter hypotheses, we may explain those cases in
which the bones are few in number and unbroken, the caverns
large and the fissures extending upwards to the surface ;
but where they bear marks'of having been lacerated by beasts
of prey, and where the cavern is small, and the number
of bones and teeth so great, and so :disproportionate to each
other-as in the cave at Kirkdale, the only adequate expla-
nationis, that they were collected by the agency of wild beasts. We hall 'show hereafter; that-in the. case of the German
caves, where the quantity of bones is greater than could have
been supplied by. ten times the number of carcases which
the caves, if crammed to the full, could ever have contained,
they were the: bones of bears that lived and died.in them
during successive generations.