Youxs; but
although not s0 numerous as noticed by the accurate LEEUWEN=
HOEK, $till they were too numerous to suppose each to have
contained 8ix muscles ;. for I could have shewn distinctly at
least fifty layers, without the assistance of a glass, as was
readily granted by those to whom I exhibited them,

But a circumstance which would seem to prove that these

Ddg


204, Dr. Hos ack's Observations on Vision.

layers possess no distinct muscles is, that in this opaque state
they are not visible, but consist rather of an almost infinite,
number of concentric fibres (if the term be at all appropriate)
not divided into particular bundles, but similar to as many of
the finest hairs of equal thickness, arranged in similar order :
see fig. 4, 5, and 6, where the arrangement of the layers and
fibres has been painted from the real lens of an ox, and that
without the assistance of a glass. To observe this fact, any
person may try the experiment at pleasure, and witness the
same with the naked eye, even separating many layers and
their fibres with the point of a penknife. This regular structure of layers, and those consisting of con-
centric fibres, is unquestionably better adapted for the trans-
mission of the rays of light, than the irregular structure of
muscles. | It may, perhaps, be urged, that the heat to which
I exposed the lens may have changet its structure : in answer
to that I observe, it was moderate in degree, and regularly
applied ; of consequence we may presume, as it appeared uni-
formly opaque, that every part was alike acted upon ; but by
boiling the lens. where the heat is, without doubt, regularly
applied, we observe the same structure. Thirdly, that it is not from any changes of the lens, and
that this is not the most essential organ in viewing objects at
different distances, we may also infer from this undeniable
fact, that we can, in a great degree, do without it ; as after
couching or extraction, by which operations all its parts must
be destroyed, capsule, ciliary processes, muscles, &c.