RS.

4
= _
Q

=
oO

ED | Read February 16, 1786,

All,
=
T has been advanced by ſeveral travellers. and. hiſtorians, that
! the Indians of America differed from other males of the
uman ſpecies,in the want of one very charaQteriſtic ,wark of
She ſex, to wit, that of a beard, From this general obſerva-
, the Eſquimaux, have been excepted ; and hence it .has
en ſuppoſed, that they had an origin. different from. that of
e other natives of .America.. Inferences have alſo been drawn,
Jot only with ,reſpe&t_ to the origin, but even relative to the
nformation of Indians, as if this was in its nature more
Emperfect than that of the reſt of mankind. B "It appears ſomewhat ſingular that authors, in deducing the
Sxigin both of the Eſquimaux and of the other Indians of
America from the old world, ſhould never have explained to us
Show the former came to retain their beards, and the latter to
lay them aſide, To aſcertain the authenticity of this point
may perhaps prove of little real utility to mankind ; but the
Gogularity of the fact certainly claims the attention of the

*curious ; and As It 1s, impoſſible, to fix, any limits to the infe-
rences:


230 Mr. Me CavsLand's Obſervations on the þ

rences which may at one time or another be drawn from.
alledged fats, it muſt always be of conſequence to inquire
into the authenticity of thoſe fats, how little me
tocver they may at preſent a appear. I will not by any means take upon me to ſay that there are not!
nations of America deſtitute of beards ; but ten years reſidence at
Niagara, in the midi(t of the Six-Nations (with frequent opportu
nities of ſeeing other nations of Indians) has convinced me, tha
they do not differ from the reſt of men, in this particular, mor
than one European differs from another : and as this imperfeCtio
has been attributed to the Indians of North-America, equall
with thoſe,of the reſt of the Continent, Iam much inclined tc
think, that this aſſertion is as void of foundation in one regio;
as it 18 1n the other.