The
Potash was in the common state, as to. dryness... There was. a
most violent action, and a-solution of the telurium, with much
heat, -and a metallic: mass;: not unlike nickel in colour, was
formed ; which when touched by water, did not inflame nor
effervesce, : but rendered the -water of, a. beautiful purple
colour, and when thrown into water entirely dissolved, making
a. bright: purple tincture; It immediately occurred to me,
that the whole: of the hydrogene, which. in common, cases
would have: been. furnished. from. the, decomposition_ of the
water, had in this instance combined with - he, tellurium, and
that the ze/{uretted hydrogene, (if the name may be used, ) had
formed with the oxidated potassium, i. e. the potash, a peculiar
compound, soluble in water; and this I found to, be. the case;;
ſor on pouring a little diluted muriatic acid into; the mixture,
it effervesced. violently, and gave.a.smell very like, that of
sulphuretted hydrogene; metallic tellurium was formed where


some new Objects in Chemical Philosophy. 259

it came in” contact with the- air, and muriate of potash_ was
found dissolved in the mixture. It seemed evident. from this fact, that in the _ action of
tellurium negatively. electrified upon potash, potassium was
produced as in all other cases, and that it combined with the
tellurium, and formed a peculiar alloy ; and this opinion was
farther confirmed, by the immediate action of potassium upon
tellurium. When these metals were gently heated in a retort
of green glass, filled with hydrogene gas, they combined with
great energy, producing most vivid heat and light, and they
composed an alloy of a dark copper hue, brittle, infusible at a
heat below redness, -and possessing a crystalline fracture,
When the tellurium- was in excess in this mixture, or even
nearly equal to the potassium' in quantity, no hydrogene was
evolved by the action of the alloy upon water ; but the com-
pound of telluretted-hydrogene and potash was formed, which
remained dissolved in the fluid, and which was easily decom-
posed by an acid. The very intense affinity of potassium and tellurium for
each other, induced me to conceive that the decomposition of
potash, might be easily effected, by acting on the oxide of tel-
lurium and potash at the same time, by heated charcoal ; and
I 800n proved that this- was: the case.