Phil, Trans, 1804, p. 405.


rohich possesses the characteristic Properties of Tannin. 189

This opinion may in some degree be refuted even from the
specimens afforded by the Bovey coal-pits, where, as I have
observed, a regular gradation may be seen from wood which
is but very imperfectly carbonized, to the substance called
stone coal, which in every respect appears to be most nearly
if not absolutely similar to the common pit-coals.*

It may however be objected, that such a transition is pecu-
liar to this and similar places, and that the pit-coal found in
other situations, where nothing resembling the Bovey coal
can be discovered, is in reality of a different nature,

But this objection I think may be answered by the results
of those experiments on-pit-coal, Cannel coal, and asphaltum,
which I have related in the third section of this Paper ; for
when these were subjected- to the action of nitric acid not
too long continued, it was found, that the acid first dissolved
the principal part of the carbonaceous matter, and if then the
process was stopped, there remained a substance in a pro-
portion corresponding to that of the bitumen either in the
pit-coal, or principally forming the Cannel coal and asphal--
tum, which although not absolutely in the state of resin, was
however in a state intermediate between it and the vegetable
extractive matter. Moreover I have stated, that under similar circumstances,
a substance possessing in a great measure the same properties,
may be obtained from the known vegetable resins by the
action of nitric acid. When therefore, these facts are added to that of the

* Phil, Trans, 1804, p. 398. Ts


140 Mr. HateneTT's Erperiments on a Substante,

natural mixture of resin and asphaltum which is found' with
the Bovey coal, we to all appearance have almost positive
proof that the pit-coals are of vegetable origin. |

True it is indeed, that bitumen has never been formed
by any artificial process hitherto devised, from the resins or
other vegetable substances.