These experiments Sir James Hair
intends to rezume, and it is my earnest wish that he would do $0; for although I am
£trongly inclined to believe that the mineral coals have. generally, if not always, been
formed by some humid process, yet it is impossible to foresee the results which may
be obtained from animal and vegetable bodies subjected to. the effects of heat modi-
fied by compression, as the principles of these bodies may be acted upon, and may be
made to re-act on each other, under circumstances which until now haye not been
imagined.


which posses5es the characteristie Properties of Tannin. 145

-position,” every economy in” such an article 'should' be most
Tigidly observed.”

But for the-present, I intend to relinquish this subject to
such as may consider it worthy of attention; whilst, as 1
have already stated, I entertam very sanguine expectations,
that eventually it will prove economically useful ; and should
any be inclined to pursue the inquiry, I would recommend
particular attention to those processes which relate to the
roasted vegetable substances, and to peat. Almost any refuse vegetable matter, such as twigs, dead
leaves, &c. will serve for the former ; whilst the latter, as I
have shewn, does not require to be roasted, and in many,
especially the northern counties, peat is found in such abun-
dance, that but a 8mall proportional quantity is consumed in
the only useful way to which it has hitherto been applied,
namely, fuel. Before I conclude this Paper I s$hall also observe,
that the experiments which have been described, must be
regarded only as a mere sketch of that which may be
performed, whilst the facts which have been ascertained re-
specting the resins, balsams, gum resins, and gums, serve
to prove, that much may be expected from regular che-
mical examinations of these bodies. But such investigations,
in order that science- may truly be promoted, should be
strictly regular: that is, they should not be taken up in a
desultory manner, but these substances should be compa-
ratively and systematically examined with all the accuracy
which can be employed in the present state of chemical
knowledge ; for as this knowledge concerning the composition

MDCCCVI. U


146 Mr.