C 466)
Pliny, Rondeletiin,Geſuer, Zobnſton,or Aladrovandus,or any 0ther of the an-
cient or modern Halieurical writers. All is ſound Philoſophy, Art and
Nature,matter of Fact and confirmed by much experience,

Theſc his Inſtances (amonglt many others of note) are peculiarly
remarkable ; Thar the ſtately Hart,p. 24. the fearſul Hare,p.40. and the
cunning Otter,p.56. have (all of them) as many deep Subrilties and
crafts, to make the dogs'leave the Chaſe, as any old Fox, 49: That a
Hare doth naturally know the change of Weather from 24 hours to 24
hours,p,39: That Fiſh do foreknow the approach of a ſhowr of rain,
and will then forbear tobitezby which Obſervation, upon the riling of
a Cloud, be hath often ſaved himſelf from being wer to the $kin,p.249:
That the Char, a delicate Fiſh,reſembling a Trour,is only to be found
inthe great Lake-of Lancaſvire called Winander mere, p.257 : That the
Grizead, another excellent Fiſh, is only tobe found ina large water,
called Pemble-mere,through whichthe River Dee runs : Dee aboundeth
with Salmors, and Pemble-mere with Guineads, yet wasit never known,
that any Salmon was caught in the 2ere,nor any-Gwineadin the Riverz
uere p.266: That a Pike,the Tyrant of Freſh-waters, fought with an
Otter, fora Carp taken z bir a Mule by the lip, as he was drinking 3 bie
a Maid by the foot, as ſhe was walhingzand frequently devours his own
kind,p.269 5. yet will do.no injury to the; Tench,the Fiſhes famous Phy-
tian : And when the Pike is lick or hurt, -he applies himſelf to _the
Tench,and finds cure by rubbing himſelf againſt him; 2xere p. 278:
That the Eyrie of a Peregrine or Haggard-Falcon was never yet foundin
anyCountry,by any man,that he could eyer hear or read of,p.122:That
the takes a largeLiberty to her ſelf,for her abode,either bySea,orLand,
and is ſo abſolute in her power ,- that all flying-Fowl ſtoop under her
Subjection;- nay, that the Teircel-gentle, which is her natural Male,
dares not ſit.by her,or come near her reſidence, but only in cawking
Time, and that is in the Spring} and then, for procreation ſake, ſhe will
admit him to come near her with Submiſſion, which be manifeſts with
bowing his head at his approach, and by calling, and cowring with his
Wings,as the young ones do; in teſtimony how fearful be is of incur-
ring her diſpleaſure,p.$82 That this generous Falcon flys to ſuch a
height, thar being lo{t co the fight of Mortals, ſhe ſeems to converſe
with heaven alone; yet ſuch is ber-loyalty-and obedience to her Ma-
ſer, that a word from his mouth ſhall make her ſtoop and condeſcend,p.
75. Thus much extracted only for a Taſte of the Philoſophy of Ani-
mals of the Providence, Wit,and wiles of Beaſts, Fowls, Fiſhes, &c.to
ſ:cure their own ſafery z + and (on the other (ide) the courage, ſagaci-
ry, gallantry, fidelity-and obedience of Dogs and Hawks,to ſerve Man-
Kind in the acqueſt of his Dominion and Soveraignty over theLand,rhe
Warers, and the Air; as a touch at ſome of their peculiarities. ERRAT,
Pag 443.lin.amepens r,h:le forwhole,, p.44541, 24nr-/ichiſh, p.446.l.9,re that which
was, p.448.1 21-r.ond for end, P-453+ 1.2 r.colleFed, -
LOND®@ON,
Printed for Joby Aart)n, Printer to the Royal Society, 1675.