This way of explaining the observed appearances being,
admitted, it will be proper to enter into an examination of the
probable cause of the condensation of the nebulous matter. Should the necessity for such a condensing cause be thought
to be admitted upon too slight an induction, a more detailed
gupport of it will hereafter be found in the condition of such
a copious collection of objects, as will establish its existence
beyond all possibility of doubt.*

Instead of inquiring after the nature of the cause of the
condensation of nebulous matter, it would indeed be sufficient
for the present purpose to call it merely a- condensing prin--
ciple ; but since we are already acquainted with the centripetal
force of attraction which gives a globular figure to planets,
keeps them from flying out of their orbits in tangents, and;
makes one star revolve around another, why should we: not
look up to-the universal gravitation of matter as the cause of.
every condensation, accumulation, compression, and concen--
tration of the nebulous matter? Facts are not wanting to
prove that such a, power has been exerted; and as I shall
point out a. series of phenomena in the heavens where astro-
nomers. may read in legible characters the manifest vestiges
of such an exertion, I need not hesitate to- proceed in a few.
additional remarks on the consequences that mnust arise from
the admission of this attractive principle. The nebula, for instance, which has been described at the
beginning of this article, as containing several bright nuclei,
has probably 80 many predominant seats of attraction, arising

* See Article 24,


relating to the Construction of the Heavens. 28z

from a superior preponderance of the nebulous matter in those
places; but attraction being a principle which never ceases
to act, the consequence of its continual exertion upon this ne-
bula will probably be a division of it, from which will arise
three or four distinct nebulz. In the same manner its opera-
tion on the diffused nebulosities that have many different
bright places, will possibly occasion a breaking up of them
into smaller diffusions and detached nebulz ; but before I pro-
ceed with conjectures, let us see what observations we have to
give countenance to such expectations..

8.