After the experiments detailed in my two last papers, it may perhaps appear un-
necessary, at least to those enlightened British chemical philosophers who have closely
followed the progress of science, to offer any new evidences to prove that potassium
and sodium are not hydrurets of potash and soda, particularly as M. M. Gay Lussac
and TaEnaRD, the ingenious adyocates of this notion have acknowledged, in the
Moniteur to which I have before referred, that it is not tenable; but on a Subject s@
intimately connected with the most refined departments of chemical philosophy, and
with 50 many new objects of research, additional facts cannot be wholly devoid of use
and application. Mr. DaLTox, in the second volume of the work which he entitles «© A New System
of Chemical Philosopby,” of which he has had the goodness to send me a copy, has,
I find in his first pages, adopted the idea that potash and soda are metallic oxides ;
but in the latter pages has considered them as simple bodies, and the metals formed
from them as compounds of potash and soda with hydrogene. He has given no facts
in fayour of this change in his opinion : his principal argument is founded upon the
process in which I first obtained potassium, Common potash is a hydrat : when oxy-
gene is procured from this by VoLTaic electricity at one surface, and potassium at
the other surface ; Mr. Da. Tox conceiving that this oxygene arises from the water,
states that the hydrogene of the water must combine with the potash to form potas-
sium, It is eyident, that adopting such a plan of reasoning, lead or copper might be
proved to be hydrurets of their oxides ; for when these metals are revived from their
aqueous acid solutions, oxygene is produced at the positive surface, and no hydrogene
at the negative surface. In my first experiments for producing potassium and sodium, I used a weak


12 Mr. Davy's Experiments on the :

I shall now resume the detail of the experiments that
I have made, on the relative attractions of oxymuriatic gas
and oxygene, for the metals of the fixed alkalies.