CuisT1E on the diurnal deviations of the

It will be remembered that, the effect of an increase of tem-
perature in the magnets, by diminishing, the intensity of their
forces, is to make both the westerly and easterly points of equi-
librium approach the north, and that a diminution of temperature
has the effect of making them both recede from it, independent
of any, other cause. Now, in these last observations, it has
only happened on. one day that I have. not seen repeatedly
both points approack the north when the temperature of the
magnets has decreased, and both recede from the north with an
increase. of temperature ; Showing clearly that the tendencies in
one case of both points to approach the north, and of both to
recede from it in the other, were sufficient to counteract the
contrary tendencies arising from the changes of temperature
in the magnets; and proving that the peculiar changes which
I have noticed, although modified by the temperature of the
magnets, were not the effects of it,

I do not propose at present to. give. these observations, as
it is my intention to: make a series on the precise effects of
changes of temperature in the magnets, s0 as to be able to
free the observations entirely from such effects, by reducing
them to the same standard. When this. is done, I shall no
doubt find, that the extent of the deviations which I haye ob-
tained require some correction, chiefly in the observations with
the needle out of the meridian ; andI likewise expect that here
the times of the maxima deviations will be found nearer to the
times, of the maximum. intensity and minimum intensity, as
determined by HANSTEEN ; but the leading fact, of the westerly
and easterly points approaching the north at the same lime, and
receding from it at the same time, during certain periods, will
remain unaltered. Thus the conclusions which I have before
drawn respecting, the increase and decrease of intensity in the


horizontal needle when under the influence of magnets. 391

terrestrial forces will not be materially affected by the changes
which may have taken place in the temperature of the mag-
nets during the times of observation. With regard to the
observations in the meridian, that is, with the needle pointing
north or south, they could not be much affected by changes
in the temperature of the magnets, especially by such small
changes as I am persuaded alone took place : the extent of

the deviations may, in some instances, have been slightly in-

creased or diminished, but their directions could not be
changed.