At P is a s$pirit level, passing
through the centre plate of the conical axis at right angles to
the: telescope, supported by a cock at each end, one of which
appears at & ; this cock is fixed to the cone U, and, by means
of a small toothed wheel and pinion, the level is made to re-
volve round its own axis, so that the same side of the level
may readily be brought uppermost, \ whatever position the
circle be put into; it is also furnished with all necessary ad-
Justing screws. It will readily be $een that a telescope, thus
fitted up, will have all the properties of a transit instrument,


8 Sir GEeoRGE SHUCKBURGH's Account

while the graduated circle will possess those of a meridian
quadrant. For this purpose /, m, is a stout brass tube, inclos-
ing a tiff iron rod, turning upon two fine steel points, ad-
justed, by proper screws, parallel to the line of sight of the
telescope ; this rod is attached to a spirit level of great sen-
sibility, lying below it, which-with the rod, turns round
upon the steel points just mentioned, and is in fact a hanging
level of the best construction. At the eye end of the tele-
scope S, is a peculiar apparatus to correct the effects of re-
fraction and parallax, when an-observation is made out of the
meridian : it is composed of two. levels, a small quadrant of
altitude n, o, and a semicircle divided, with its nonius, to
every z', on the breech plate ofthe telescope, the exterior eye
tube having a circular motion, by a wheel and pinion at o, in-
dependent of the tube that carries the cross wires; |by this
means, the angle of the horary and vertical circles may at
any time be found, together with the altitude of the object,
and then, by the resolution of two right angled triangles, the
refraction and parallax, in right ascension and declination, will
be obtained. 72, , are two handles to a Hook's joint at z, x,
which, turning an endless screw at w, ww, give a gradual mo-
tion to the telescope in right ascension or declination ; and
this motion can at any time be restrained by a clamp at q. The handles 2, v, are hung on to any part of the instrument,
by means of the line and wire v, v, and are thus kept within
the observer's reach.” 7 and $ are two microscopes, placed on
opposite sides of: the circle QR, and at right angles to the
line of sight of the telescope, of use only when the plumb
line is used in preference to the level 1, m, above described,


of the Equatorial Instrument. 81

either for adjusting the instrument, or observing a meridian
altitude. y and zare thin perforated brass plates, attached to
the cover that goes on the object glass, and, by occasionally
turning them over it, change the aperture to 4 or 4.