In drawing up the following account, care has been taken
to state all the attendant circumstances, and to record in the
Tables every observation in detail ; 80 that any person wishing

to examine the work, may have the best means possible of
estimating its value.


212 Captain HALL's details of experiments

The methods followed for making the adjustments of the
instruments, conducting the experiments, and deducing the
results, were those laid down in your paper on the length of
the pendulum at the principal stations of the Trigonometrical
Survey. TI took care, for example, always to adjust the dia-
phragm in the focus of the eye-piece of the telescope, s0 that
its edges should coincide exactly with those of the extremity
of the pendulum ; according to the precept at page 9 of your
second paper. (read before the Royal Society in June, 1819.)
This adjustment, by the way, is rendered more easy and exact,
by placing a card or other white object at a little distance
behind the pendulum. I also invariably determined the
Intervals by observing the disappearance of the white disk
according to your directions at page 11, and the reasoning at
page 58 of the first paper,* (read in January, 1818.)

And here I feel it not only due to you, but likely, perhaps,
to be of use to future observers, to state that, after many trials
of fancied improvements, and simplifications of your methods,
both in the conduct of the experiment itself, and in the subse-
quent computations, I was finally obliged to acknowledge,
in every instance, even where I succeeded, that I had by
more labour, or by a more circuitous path, reached the same
point to which your rules would at once have led me.

* I am particular in stating these two circumstances, especially the first, from its
being $0 essential to the accuracy of the whole experiment, in all cases where the
diameter of the disk and the breadth of the pendulum, though in fact equal, are placed
at different distances from the eye, and therefore appear under different angles ; and
not, as in your first paper, where they are s0 proportioned that both occupy the
same apparent space when seen through the telescope. I was at first disposed to
think it might be better to observe both the times of disappearance and re-appear-
ance of the white disk, and to assume the mean as the true instant of the coincidence z
but I found by repeated trials, that the time of re-appearance was liable to greater or
less uncertainty according to the degree of light, and other unmanageable circum-
Stances : and having satisfied myself by demonstration that the method of obtaining
the intervals by observing the disappearance was rigorously correct in principle, I
adhered to it ever afterwards as being more simple and infallible in practice,

D}


made with an invariable pendulum. 213

From having carefully studied your works before leaving
England, I had conceived myself to be sufficiently qualified
to undertake a course of experiments at once. In this,
however, I was mistaken ; and the consequence has been,
that of two extensive series which I madeat Valparaiso, neither
is I fear sufficiently accurate to deserve your notice.