The Chinese, as far as the writer of this knows, have no
solar year, unless their celebration of a grand festival at the
6 5-4 tung-chy, or winter solstice, may be considered as
an observance of its annual limits. Du Harpe says, that

* These constellations are generally found written on the Chinese compass, to-
gether with the diagrams of Fo-hi, the five elements (viz. fire, water, wood, stone,
and metal, a division strikingly philosophical) and various other characters used in
fortune-telling.


94 Mr. Davis on the Chinese Year.

* their (s0lar) year is composed of 36z days and somewhat
less than 6 hours, and from an epocha regulated by the winter
solstice, which was. the fixed point of their observations, as
the 18t degree of Aries'is of ours, reckoning from a hundred
to a hundred degrees, they calculated the motions of the pla-
nets, and adjusted all things by equation tables : some sup-
posed that they received them from the Arabians, who
entered with the Tartars into China.” He afterwards acknow-
ledges, that © though the Chinese have distinguished the
course of the sun into 363 days and 15 minutes, of which we
compose one year, they regard more the lunations, than the
course of the sun.””

The Chinese year, properly considered as such, is in
fact a lunar year, consisting of twelve months of twenty-
nine and thirty days alternately, with the triennial intercala-
tion of a thirteenth month, to make it correspond more nearly
with the sun's course.* It has not been discovered (with
any degree of certainty ), why they fix upon the 15th degree
of Aquarius as a rule for regulating the commencement of
their lunar year : but they have an annual festival about the

recurrence of this period z + which bears a consider-

able resemblance to the deification of the bull Apis ; and
this resemblance is increased by the connection of both cere-
monies with the labours of agriculture, and with the hopes of
an abundant season.- This coincidence may serve to fortify
the opinions of those who are fond of tracing the Chinese to
the Egyptians ; although the possibility of such a derivation
has been ably disproved by M. pe Pauw.

* I call this intercalation triennial, because that is the nearest approximation ;

but in fact it is seyen times in nineteen years.
+ For a detail of the Chinese ceremony, vide Moxn180N's view of China, p. 109. Mr. Davis on the Chinese Year. 95

An astronomical work, in which the writer of this found
the Chinese planisphere, comprised in 12 charts of the hea-
vens, mentions the N.