A



192 Mr. Moncax's Osſervations and' Experiments on
By examining the flame of a common candle we may obs:
{:rve, that its loweſt extremities, or the part in which the black
colour of the wick terminates,” diſcharges the leaſt heat ; and?
that; as the vertex of the flame 'is approached, a ſucceſſive order”
of parts is pafſed-through, in which the loweſt 1s continually
adding to: the heat of what is juſt above it, till we come to
the/top of the flame, near which all the heat is colleed into a
focus. | At the loweſt extremity, however, where the heat is
inconſiderable, a blue colour may be always obſerved; and
from this appearance, amongſt others, it may, I think, be
Fafely concluded, that the blue rays are ſome'of thoſe which
eſcape-from combuſtibles in an early period of their decompo-
fition; and that if the decompoſition could be examined in a
period {till more early, the colour of their flame would be
violet. By an a priori deduCtion of. this kind, I was led to
watch the appearances of a candle more attentively ; whence T
found that to the external boundary of a common . candle
i3 annexed a filament of light, which, if proper care be
taken to prevent the eſcape of too much ſmoke, will appear
moſt beautifully coloured with the violet and indigo rays.” 'To
the preceding inſtance of a common candle: many faCts may
be added, which ſpeak a fimilar language. - If ſulphur: or
ther is burned, or ' any of thoſe combuſtibles whoſe
vapour is kindled in a ſmall degree of heat, a blue/flame
will appear, which, if examined by the priſm, will be found
to conſiſt of the violet, the indigo, the blue, and ſometimes a
ſmall quantity of the green rays. 'The beſt mode, however,
of ſhewing the eſcape of ſome rays by” that degree of heat
which will not ſeparate others till increaſed, is the following. I a piece of brown paper a ſpherical form, by prefling 1
upon


þ

F the Light of Bodies in @ State of Combuſtion. 193
upon any hard globular ſubſtance. Gradually bring the paper,
thus formed, to that diſtance from the candle at which it will be-
gin to take fire, Tn this caſe a beautiful blue flame may be ſeen,
hanging as it were by the paper till a hole is made in it, when
the flame, owing to the increaſed aQtion of the air upon all
parts 'of it, becomes white, though the: edges {till continue of
a blue or violet colour.