But LaeLace's demonstration
will be completely overturned, if it shall be'shown that, in
any hypothesis for v/, the formula in question has a finite value
when 7 —p=0: for then the only reason which he can be
supposed to assign for rejecting such terms in the value of
(%]) ; namely, that they contain a vanishing factor, must be
allowed to be inconclusive. We hall henceforth suppose that
v/ denotes a rational and integral function of ', V1—y*.
cos. #', 1p". sin. #', which are three rectangular co-or-
dinates of a point in the surface of a-sphere ; a supposition
which in effect embraces the whole extent of LapLacz's
method. |

The demonstration which LAPLAcE has given of his funda-
mental theorem is independent on the function y, being drawn
entirely from the nature of the algebraic expression of the
distance between the attracted point and a molecule of the


the Attractions of Spheroids of every Description. 17

matter spread over the surface of the sphere.* From this
circumstance indeed is derived one great advantage of his
method, namely its great generality; for no restriction what-
ever is imposed on the nature of the spheroid excepting that
of a near approach to the spherical figure. Nevertheless the
author, by means of a imple transformation, immediately
deduces from his theorem an equation which proves that y
and V are expressed by two series both containing the same
sort of terms :Þ and since all the terms of the series for V
can only be rational and integral functions of p, V1—j*.

cos. 7, V1—p. in. 77 it follows that y must be a like
function of the same three quantities, We may remark here
that this consequence of LaeLace's reasoning appears to be
inconsistent with the premises : for it is hard to reconcile with
the rules of legitimate deduction that an equation obtained by
supposing y to be arbitrary, should, merely by having its form
changed, be made to prove that the same quantity must be
restricted to signify a function of a particular kind, But we
mention this only by the bye, without meaning to insist upon
it; although we cannot help thinking that it ought to have led
the learned author to entertain suspicions of the accuracy of
his calculations ; all that we intend by the foregoing abserva-
tion is to prove that in point of fact we shall embrace the
whole extent of LapLacr's method by supposing y to be a
rational and integral function of three rectangular co-ordinates
of a point in the surface of a sphere. Supposjng then v! to denote such a function as has been
mentioned, we are to investigate the value of this integral,

* Liv, 3e, No, 10. + Liv. 3e, No, 11. 1 Liv. ze, No. g,
MDCCCX11. D


18 Mr, Ivory on the Method of computing
viz,
Fo <f.v .du. do v

Jnmar, »+8 [=D
when it is extended to the whole surface of the sphere, and in
the particular circumstance of 7 =p, or 7 —p=0, We must
begin with transforming the formula to be integrated.