During my ſtay in.C=/tantineple, which was above two
years, there hapned but one which was Ofober 26. 1669. a-
bour ſix a clock in the morning, a ſtark calme preceediag.
ir Jafted very near a minute, and we at Perz and Galata were
as ſenfible of it, as thoſe who were on the other fide of the
water; but praiſed be God, nothing fell and we were __

ri


[ 443]

rid of the tears in which this frightful accident had caſt us
being in our beds, and not able by reaſon of the ſurprize in
ſo little a ſpace to have paſt through a Gallery down a pair
of Stairs into the Court, if we had attempted it. The Turks
made direful reflexions on it, as if ſome calamity would .in-
evitably fall upon the Empire, quickly forgetting the great
triumphings and rejoycings which they expreſt but a few
days before for the Surrendry of Candia, In the year 1568,
in Agujt, the Earth ſhook more or leſs for forty-ſeyen days
together in the leſſer Aſia at Anguri ( Ancyra } and for fifteen
at Bacbaſar, as we heard from a Scotch Merchant, "who liy'd
there: and particularly, that at this latter place on the ſe-
cond of Arguft, between three and four of the Clock in the
afternoon it laſted for a quarter of an hour; ſeveral houſes
were overthrown, and ſome hundreds of Chimneys fell (it
being a very populous Town) and yet there were but ſeven
kill'd. The trembling being lo violent;- both Tuwk: and Chrie
tiers forſook their Houſes, and betook themſelves to the
Fields, Vineyards, and Gardens, where they made their abode
tor ſeveral days : i

Their puniſhments are very ſevere, this being judg'd the
molt effetual way to prevent all publick diſorders and miſ-
chiefs.” They, uſe no great formality in their proceſſes: if
the Criminalbe taken in the Fact, and the witneſſes ready
and- preſent to atteſt it,, and ſometimes if-there be bur pro-
bable cixcumſtances, without fullconyiction, condemn him ;
and ſoon after ſentence, ſometimes an hour or leſs, hurry
him away to execution. For an ordinary crime, hanging is
the CS Ieutes but for Robbery and Murder, commirted
upon the high way by ſuch as rob in Parties and alarm whole
Provinces, or for Sacriledge, or for any hajnous Crime a- +
gain{t rhe Government, either Gaunching or Excoriation,
or cutting oft the Legs and Arms, and leaving the Trunk
of the Body in the high way, or Empaling}; that 4s, thruſt-
ing an Iron ſtake through the Body out under the Neck or
at the Mouth ; in which extreme torment the miſerable
wretch may liye two or three days, if the Guts or the Heart
happen not to be wounded by the. pointed ſpike in its paſ-
ſage. 'This puniſhment” ſeems to: have been in uſe among
the Romans, Sencca's Epilt. 14."Cogita hoc loco carcerem, &' Crubes, &
ecuteos, & uncum, & adattum per medium bominem, qui per 'os emergat,
ſtipitem: and fo in his Book De Conſolation ad -Marciaq cap. 1.0.)

Ali


[444 ] :
Alii capite conrverſas in terram ſuſpendere : altt per obſcena ftipiter egerunt*
alir brach1a patibulo explicuerunt. Murder is ſeldom pardon'd, and
elpecially-if. the Relations of the murder'd perſon demand
ultice. |
J The Circumciſion, tho it be a ſacred Rite, is perform'd
in their private Houſes, and never in the Moſchs.

'The Women colour their Eye-Brows and.