And
this seems- principally to have been done with a view to satisfy.
the Public, that their usual meetings were then-continued, for the
improvement of knowledge, and benefit of mankind, the great
ends of their first institution by the Royal Charters, and which
they have ever since steadily pursued. But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged, and their:
communications more numerous, it was thought advisable that a
Committee of their members should be appointed, to reconsider
the papers read before them, and select out of them such as they.
should judge most proper for publication in the future 7ransac-
tions; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March,
1752. And the grounds of their choice are, and will continue to


Cn 3
be, the importance and singularity of the subjects, or the adyan-
tageous manner of treating them, without pretending to answer
for the certainty of the facts, or propriety of the reasonings,
contained in the several papers s0 published, which must still
rest on the credit or judgment of their respective authors. It is Iikewise necessary on this occasion to remark, that it is
an established rule of the Society, to which they will always
adhere, never to give their opinion, as a Body, upon any subject,
either of Nature or Art, that-comes before them. And therefore
the thanks which are frequently proposed from the Chair, to be
given'to the authors of, such papers: as are read at their accus-
tomed: meetings, 'or-to the. persons through whose' hands they
receive them, are to be considered -in-no other light than as a
matter of civility,/in return-for the respect shewn to the Society
hy those communications. | The like also-is, to be said with
regard to the several projects, inventions, and | curiosities of
various kinds, /which -are often exhibited to the Society ; the
authors whereof, "or those -who exhibit them, frequently take
the liberty to report, -and \eyen to (certify: in the: public news-
papers, >that they have met? with the! highest applause and
approbation. | And 'therefore- it is hoped, / that mo regard- will
hereafter be:paid-to-such-reports and | public notices ; which in
some instances'have been-too'lightly- credited, tothe dishonour
of the Society.