If the mercury thus charged with the alkaline base be
not entirely covered with the fluid, and the metallic contact be
made at the vertex of the globule, out of the liquid, no effect
is produced ; but if the other end of the metallic wire be
bent round and brought to touch the liquid at some distance
from the mercury, the violent action above described imme-
diately commences ; with this difference; that now the surface


Fuid conductors when transmitting the. electric current. 179

of the mercury is radiated in all directions from-the point of
contact to the circumference of the globule, and: that the
whole of the hydrogen-is given off at the-other end of the
wire: where it touches:the liquid: - A little consideration will
suffice, however, to show that both these effects are merely
_- modifications of one and the same.'- It is-not to, or from the
wire as guch,' that 'the superficial particles radiate; they
merely follow the direction/'of the-predominant electric:cur-
rents in their passage through the liquid. It is in- fact the
case of the source of positive electricity, being, the mercury
itself, instead of 'its being conveyed to it from a pile at a
distance.

27. Having thus distinetly traced the alteration in the me-
chanical effect by contact with the negative pole, to the amal-
gamation of the mercury with sodium, the knowledge of this
fact led me to investigate more minutely the effects of diffe-
rent metals in their contact and amalgamation with mercury ;
and the results T have encountered in the course of these en-
quiries, appear to me 80; remarkable, that I cannot forbear
annexing them, especially as they afford an explanation of
almost every. anomaly which perplexed me in the com-
mencement of the investigation.” In order to render the effects
less liable to objection,.as well as more distinct and striking,
I now used solutions of potash or soda, pretty highly impreg-
nated with the caustic alkali, for the conducting liquid. This
has the advantages at once of high conducting power, and
of producing no currents whatever in pure mercury, neither
pole being placed in! contact. Of course, whatever motions
arise on the introduction of an extraneous metal must be due
entirely to the presence of that metal, and the mercury may


180 Mr.