It remains therefore ( very probably) that they were

Kind'ed of themſelves. >
S TIfor my part know no Subject in the whole Mineral
Kingdom fo. generall and Jaſting for the fuel of theſe
ountains, as the Tyrites; which I have ſaid alone to
Yeild Sulphur; and naturally reſolves it ſelf into it, by a
ind of Vegetation. :
5 About the durable burning of the Pyrites theſe are in-
Dances, Scotch-coal hath lets of the Pyrites in ir, being
moſtly made up of Coal Bitumen, and therefore it burns
3nd conſumes quickly, and leaves a white Cinder, Sea
Zoal, or thar Coal which comes from Newcaſtle by Sea
$0 us, and for that reaſon ſo called, burns flowly ; and the
underland Sea Coal ſo lowly, tha it is faid by Proverb, to
Dake three fires; this hath much Pyrites mixt with it,
and burns to a heavy rediſh Cinder, which is Iron, by the
Magnet, ButTIhave ſeen, and have a ſpecimen by me
f a Coal from Ireland, theProprietour of the Pits is Sir
hriſtopher Wandsford, which is ſaid to be fo laſting,
Thar it will continue twenty four hours red hot, and al-
Moſt keep its figure :'This ſeems to be-in great part Pyrites
'Þy the weight and Colour,

©
A

L
|

The third Paper of the ſame perſon, concerning T hun-
der and Lightning being from the Pyrites. Here are two forts of Inſtances ( beſides the Argu-
ments 1 formerly urged, which to me are alone luth-
Vi ciently


-

, [518]
ciently convincing ) which very much favour the opini-
on Ilately offered. That Thunder and Lightning owe
their matter from the ſole breath of the Pyrites: And al-
though Iam as loath, and as backward as any man to
give credit to ſuch Inſtances, which ſeem rather po
gies, then the Phznomena of nature; yet becauſe they
often occur in Hiſtory, its at leaſtfitting to bring them
under further enquiry and examination, that if they can
be confuted as falſe, ſo much may be done for Poſterity ;
and that we atleaſt may not leave upon our Regiſters,
matters of fact not true, . if they can be ſairely ſet aſide.

'The firſt ſort of them are thoſe which tell us of Iron to
have fallen in great maſſes, and alſo in powder after the
manner of rain, out of the Air. |

In a part Ttaly it rained Iron in ſuch a year, and in
Germany a great body of Tron-ſtone fell at ſuch a time ;
the lie Aorcenn affirms. 1ulivs Scaliger ſay's he had by
him a piece of Iron, which was rained in Savoy, where it
fell in diverſe places. Cardan reports t200 ſtones to
havefaln from Heaven, and one of them weighed 1207."
ſome of them 30 /. ſome 401. very hard, and of the co-
lour of Iron. Now that whichis very remarkable(fays GrJbert where
thoſe inſtances are reckoned up,) and a very probable: ar-
gument for the truth of ſuch lite inſtances; is; that it is)
no where recorded, that it ever rained Gold or Silvers
Ore, or Tin or Lead ; but Copper hath been alſo ſaid to.
have faln trom the Clouds, ;

( And here Imuſt note by the By, that wherever the!