The blood detached from the common circulation of the mother moves through
the placenta of the foetus, and is then returned back into the course of the cir-
culation of the mother to pass on to the heart#.”

Dr. WinLmam Huxter's description of the vascular connexion between the
uterus and placenta coincides with that of his brother : © for it scems incon-
testable (he observes) that the human placenta, like that of the quadruped, is
composed of two distinct parts, though blended together ; viz. an umbilical
which may be considered as a part of the foetus, and an uterine which belongs
to the mother; that each of these parts has its peculiar system of arteries and
veins, and its peculiar circulation, receiving blood by its arteries and returning
it by its veins; that the circulation through these two parts of the placenta

differs in the following manner:—in the umbilical portion the arteries terminate

* Obseryations on certain Parts of the Animal Ciconomy, by Jonn HuxTan, 1786; page 127. AND ITS CONNEXION WITH THE UTERUS. 59

in the veins by a continuity of canal, whereas in the uterine portion there are
intermediate cells, into which the arteries terminate, and from which the veins
begin *.”

It is a singular fact, that these celebrated anatomists should both have as-
serted their claims to the merit of what they supposed to be the discovery of
the true structure of the human placenta, and its connexion with the uterus,
and that their controversy on this subject should have loosened those bonds of
affection which had united them together from their earlier years+. Noorrwycn, Raperts, and Harres, bad previously investigated this sub-
ject by injecting the blood-yessels of the gravid uterus: their researches how-
ever did not determine, in a satisfactory manner, that a vascular connexion
exists between the uterus and cells in the placenta. 'The opinions of the
Huxrers were generally acquiesced in at the time they were promulgated,
and their accuracy has not been called in question by any anatomist of repu-
tation in this country ſor the Jast forty years. In the communication which I have now the honour of presenting to the
Royal Society, I propose to describe certain appearances which I have ob-
served in the examination of six gravid uteri, and many placentz expelled in
natural Jabour, which seem to demonstrate that a cellular stracture does not
exist in the placenta, and that there is no connexion between this organ and
the uterus by great arteries and veins.