This structure is shown in the
annexed drawings, in the human ovarium, [Plate III. fig. 2.]
in that of the cow, [Plate VI. fig. 2.7] and in that of the sow,
[Plate VIII. fig. 2.]

The corpus luteum, from its first appearance, seems to be
an entirely new substance, distinct from that of the ovarium
itself; it is never formed within the cells, but in the substance
of the ovarium ; (See Plate IV. fig. 2 and 4: Plate VI. fig.
4: and Plate VIII. fig. 4:7] and compresses the surrounding


60 Sir EVERARD HoME on corpora lutea.

parts 80 much, that when full grown, and even when there
are seyeral in the same ovyarium, that body is not much en-
creased beyond its natural size. The structure of the corpus luteum is of a very particular
kind, and is not distinctly seen in '8mall animals, or in those that
have numerous litters; but in the cow, which has commonly
only one calf at a birth, the corpus luteum js s0 large, that
when it is magnified, the structure can be made out; it is a
mass of thin conyolutions, bearing a greater resemblance to
those of the brain than of any other organ, Its form is an
irregular oval with a central cavity, and in some animals its
substance is of a bright orange colour when first exposed;
all these appearances are most accurately displayed in the an-
nexed drawings of it in thecow. [Plate VII. fig.2, 3.7 Corpora
lutea are found to make their appearance in the ovaria at the
age of puberty, and continue to succeed each other as the
young are produced, till the period arrives when breeding
no longer goes on. {Plate III. fig. 7; Plate IV. fig. 6;
Plate IX. fig. 6.]

As the object of the present paper is to draw conclusions from
the appearances that are represented in the annexed drawings,
in proof of corpora lutea being the structures in which the
ova are formed ; of their being produced previous to, and
independent of sexual intercourse; and when they have ful-
filled their office of forming ova, being afterwards removed
by absorption, whether the ova are impregnated or not; I
shall not take up the time of the Society longer than in de-
tailing a number of facts, which indeed will be doing little
more than giving a catalogue raisonnze of Mr. Bavgr's
drawings, which put these facts upon record. That corpora


Sir EvERarD Home on corpora lutea. 61

Intea are formed in a state of virginity, is proved both in
the human species and the hog tribe, as will be seen in the
annexed drawings. In a young woman of twenty years of
age with a perfect hymen, one of the ovaria was found by
Mr.