This float, as it has been called, I am inclined, from its being situated in the
same position as other opercula, to regard as analogous to those bodies in the
neighbouring genera. In the Medical Repository for 1821, I first called the attention of concholo-
gists to the importance of the characters furnished by the operculum for the
distinction of genera and families; and this subject, although almost neglected
in this country, has since been pursued with great assiduity by M. ps BLainville
and other French conchologists. I have fortunately had an opportunity of exa-
mining, either in the cabinet of the British Museum or in the Continental col-
lections which I have visited, the animals of the greater number of genera of
Shells, and have been thereby enabled to determine that the form and structure

* Cvvien at the time of publizhing his Anatomy of Mollusca appears to have entertained the same
theory, for he there properly describes this body as attached to the hinder part of the foot, a little below
the usual place of the operculum ; but in his Animal Kingdom he seems to have abandoned it, and
describes the animal as having no operculum, but haying a vesicular organ under its foot —Regne
Animal, ed, 2. tor, iii. p. 84.


818 MR. GRAY ON THE ECONOMY OF MOLLUSCOUS ANIMALS,

of their opercula offer some of the most constant characters for the distinction
and arrangement of families and genera; while, on the other hand, I have con-
vinced myself that systematists have been in the habit of placing too much
reliance on the mere fact of their presence or absence as a family character,
inasmuch as that cireumstance alone will scarcely prove of generic importance. Thus in the genus Foluta, the animals of the eight or nine species which I
have examined are all destitute of opercula, except Yoluta musica, which has
an operculum of moderate size. The Olives and Mitres are in the same predi-
cament, most, of the large species being destitute of opercula, while the smaller
species of both genera are furnished with rather Jarge ones, as may be easily
seen in specimens of Oliva eburnea, O. zonalis, or Mitra striatula, in which the
animals have been dried ; and $shells in this state are not uncommon in collec-
tions.