I have reason to believe that the statement might be made still more
general, and expressed thus : That for a constant quantity of electricity, what-
eyer the decomposing conductor may be, whether water, saline solutions, acids,
fused bodies, &c., the amount of electro-chemical action is also a constant
quantity, i. e, would always be equivalent to a standard chemical effect founded


DECOMPOSITION NOT DUE TO ATTRACTION OR REPULSION OF THE POLES. 693

upon ordinary chemical affinity. T have this investigation in hand, with 8everal
others, and shall be prepared to give it in the next series but one of these
Rexearches.

506. Many other arguments might be adduced against the hypotheses of the
attraction of the poles being the cause of electro-chemical decomposition ; but
I would rather pass on to the view I have thought more consistent with facts,
with this single remark ; that if decompoxsition by the voltaic battery depended
upon the attraction of the poles, or the parts about them, being stronger than
the mutual attraction of the particles separated, it would follow that the weak-
est electrical attraction was stronger than, if not the strongest yet, very srong
chemical attraction, namely, such as exists between oxygen and hydrogen,
potassium and oxygen, chlorine and sodium, acid and alkali, &c., a conse-
quence which, although perhaps not impossible, seems in the present state of
the subject yery unlikely.

507. The view which M. pz La Rive has taken (489.), and also MM, Ris-
FAULT and Cyomest (485), of the manner in which electro-chemical decomposi-
tion is effected, is very different to that already considered, and is not affected
by either arguments or facts against the latter. Considering it as stated by the
former philosopher, it appears to me to be incompetent to account for the experi-
ments of decomposition against surfaces of air (462, 469.) and water (495.),
which I have described; for if the physical differences between metals and humid
conductors, which M. pz La Rive supposes to account for the transmission of
the compound of matter and electricity in the latter, and the transmission of the
electricity only with the rejection of the matter in the former, be allowed for a
moment, still the relation of air to metal is, electrically considered, 80 small,
that instead of the former replacing the latter (462.), an effect the yery reyerse
might have been expected.