D. Fellow of Mag.Col, ©xon.and of rhe R.Society,

N the Offng between the North Foreland and South Fore-
and it runs Tide and half Tide, that isit iseither ebing water
or//9dupon the {hore,in that partofthe Downs,three hours,

which is grofly ſpeaking the time of half a tide, before it 1s
ſo, off at /ez, (For the jux and reflux of the ea is not made
exatly twice in 24 hours, but, as it appears by accurate
obſervation, it requires an oyerplus of almoſt 50 minares,)
The reaſon of this diverſity of ti4:s, I take to. be from
the meeting of the two /eas in that narrow /righr. |

Oftentimes when the wind has blown hard at N.E. or at
W. or W. and by S. there has hapn'd an alteration of the
rides in the river of Thames, which ignorant people have
miſtakingly lookt upon as a pre«igy,

It is a moſt certain V/ervation, Me where it flows tide and
half tide, tho the ride of flood runs aloft, yet the ride of ebb
runs #xder /vor, that is, cloſe by the ground ; and fo at the tide
of ebb, it will fow under foot, as that great and experienc'd
Sea-Commander , * Sr, Hmry Mamwaring words it. Upon
this ſuppoſition TI ſhall humbly offer a c-jecure to this learn-
eq Secje:y COnCerning the mediterranean Sea, after I have premi-
ſed this brief 4jory of it,as containing certain matter of fact. There isa vaſt drayght of water poured continually out of
the 4clanick, into the Mediteranean,, the mouth or entrance
of which between Cape Spartel or Sprat, asthe jea-men call it,
and "ape Trafalgar , may be near 7 leagues wide, the current
ſetting ſtrong into it, and not loofiog its force till it rans
as far as Ma/az', which is about 20 leagues within the S:reghrs, |
By the benefit of this Currexr, tho the wind be contrary, if
it does not over-blow, Ships eafily turn into the guz, as they
term the 2470 paſſage, which is about 20 miles in length. Art the end of which are two Towns , Gibraltar on the

(a) Seamans dition p. 106, ,
' coaſt _


[565]
coaft of Spain, which gives denomination to the Streghr,
and Ceuta on the Barbary coaft : at which places Hercules jg up-
poſed to have ſet up his Pillars, What becomes of this
great quantity of water poured in this way, and of that
which runs from the Euxine into the Boſporzs and Propentss, and
is carried at laſt through the woe: fre into the cApzar or 4r-
chipelago, is a Curious ſpeculation, and has exerciſed the wit and
underſtanding_of Philoſophers and Navigator.