E
= AS => + BSE + &.+3K (E)

These theorems marked (A), (B), (C), and (D), although
they possess a very great degree of generality, arenot entirely
without restriction; it appears at first sight that they are
applicable to all functions which have the prescribed condi-
tion of being expansible in even powers of the variable; such
was my opinion of them when I first discovered them; but


sums of several classes of infinite series. 271

several results which were evidently incorrect, s00n convinced
me that some limitation existed, of whose nature I was not
aware: it was not until some years after, that I found out
the cause of the fallacies which had perplexed me; and still
more recently, I discovered that the series on whose sum their
trath or falsehood depended, might be expressed by a definite
integral. "By applying the criterion, which I hall presently

Q explain, we cut off a great variety of series whose sums are
2 erroneously given by the method in question; whether this
E criterion does not exclude some series whose sums: are cor-
E rectly given, is a point which Ido not cngider yet completely
Z decided ; the difficulties to which the application of acknow-
5 ledged principles have in this instance conducted us, appear
E worthy. cf the attention of mathematicians. A more strict
z method might have been pursued in determining the sum of
S that part of the series which is neglected ; but this in general
'Z leads to such differential equations, as cannot afford us much
o assistance. I have, however, given one example of this
2 method, and I have shown that when the part which had been
z neglected, as being apparently equal to zero (but which is in
= fact a finite quantity,) is added to the sum furnished by the
E method of expanding horizontally and summing vertically, the true
V value of the series results, This confirms the explanation I
S have given of the reason of the apparent failure of that
E | method.

a : It will be sufficient to point out the cause which leads to

error, and to determine the conditions on which its existence
depends for one only of the series; suitable modifications of .
the reasoning. will readily suggest themselves for the others. I hall therefore, at present, consider the theorem (A). If


272 Mr.