Inſtead of wounding the nerve in many places, I made
a inciſion, above five-twelfths of an inch long, into itz:and in-
Koduced into the flit ſome threads, well ſoaked in the: poiſon,
#1d covered the whole up very well. One'of theſe died'in fixty
Eours, but ſeemingly not from the poiſon 3-the other. two-were
Tving eight days after. { $61,

Z 1 thought it neceſſary to vary-alfo this/ſecond kind'of experi-
Bent, and'to/cut the nerve as 1 had done-iyexarnining the pot-
Dn of the viper. In conſequence I cut the ſciatic nerve as far as
Fcould from'thetop,'to be ableeafily to wrap the rags about it,
The detached''part of the nerve'in Cee rabbits might be
bout an inch and'a half.” Having placed the-nerve on the raps
Fcovered it well with poiſon in the part where it was cut, and
Covered the whole up with the rags as uſual." : | > »/ |
® 1 performed.this experiment on/ ſix rabbits. "Two of 'them
Tied in forty hours; 'tworothets/in three days but the remain-
g two were living four'days/after. 1:Y forre
'Vor, LXX, E For


XXIV Abbe FONTANA on the

For a comparative experiment I prepared, as above, the ner i
of two other rabbits, which I cut, but did not apply the poiſon
to: '6ne of them .died. in. thirty-ſix hours, but the other was;
living the third day after. : t

The uniformity. of the reſults of theſe experiments upon the:

- nerves induced me tothink. it quite ſuperfluous to repeat them z
and, I am perſuaded, they will leave no doubt with any one who
3s accuſtomed to experiments, and not prejudiced in favour of k
ill grounded hypotheſes, Hence it follows, that the American
poiton.18-not poiſonous when applied to the nerves; and that ink
{ſuch caſes it produces no ſenfible diſorder in the oeconomy oF!
living animals : this is what the experiment direCtly eſtabliſhes,
But to, ſuppoſe what has not been obſerved ; to believe what is
contradifted by experiments is dreaming /in philoſophy, running
after error- inſtead of truth, and adopting mere fancies for facts. The American poiſon. (fimilar in this reſpe& tothe poiſon of thei
viper) is not poiſonous, but quite innox1ous, applied in any many
ner whatſoever, to the,nerves- But, it, kills in a moment,-and
with the ſmalleſt quantity, when introduced immediately inte
the blood by the jugular, as does likewiſe-the poiſon of the viper
Its ation. is therefore-all-upon the blood, and not in the leaſt
upon, the; nerves, whatever may, be! the principle, or the mecha
niſm by,which death (is produced. +; | ihal

The effe&s and alterations/ cauſed in the blood, by the, poiſon

of the viper are» more determinate and- more evident.. | Here.
coagulation undeniably happens, which isnot obſervable in thi
blood of arjimals killed. by, the American, poiſon ; but. the latte
gm « great change in-the lungs, which are greatly diſorders
It is'true; that death happens. ſo. ſuddenly after introducing
the American poiſon ito. the'veſſels, that one, canhot-well corn
prehend how,/it can, take-place in ſo ſhort a'time;z: for/it may bi
ſaid, that the-poiſori-4s +hardly: arrived-at the. heart! before-th
animal is dead : ndr/4s/ it. well underſtood, how;cold-bloode
anirhals-can be killed by it (frogs, for inſtance, which live {

long with the circulation ſtopped) although it-be; true that th J

die much flower by theſe poiſons than'other anituals whoſe bloos
nog: p


American Poiſon called Ticunas, XAXY |

28 warm. A humour, or the blood's being affeCted by a poiſon,
ay by degrees produce, in cold-blooded animals, diſorders ill
greater than thoſe which may be cauſed by ſtopping the cir-
culation.
| By death taking place immediately on introducing the poiſon
into the blood, we may be induced to ſuſped, that there exiſts in
that fluid a very ative, ſubtle, and volatile principle, which
eludes the acuteſt fight, and even the microſcope itſelf, This
Principle may on this hypotheſis appear neceflary to life, and
gainſt this principle the poiſon may be ſuppoſed chiefly to
girect its operation.
2 That there really exiſts in the blood a very ative and volatile
Principle, may very well be ſuſpeCted from ſeeing that the poi-
Jon of the viper prevents the coagulation of the blood when it is
grawn from the veſlels, whilſt, on the contrary, it produces a
oagulation of it within the veſſels.