I know of no class of phenomena more calculated to give
just views of the nature of electro-chemical action than those
presented by single metals and fluids; and as their results
are, with one or two exceptions, entirely new, I shall describe
them with some degree of minuteness. When two pieces of
the same polished copper, connected with the platinum wires
of the multiplier, were introduced at the same time into the
same solution of hydro-sulphuret of potassa, there was no
action ; but if they were introduced in succession, there was

- a distinct and often, if the interval of time was considerable,
a violent electrical effect—the piece of metal first plunged in
being negative, and the other positive. This result depends upon the circumstance of the produc-
tion of a new combination, which is negative with respect to
the metal; for after the formation of the sulphuret of copper,
the plate of copper that has been first plunged into the solu-
tion exhibits the same negative state with respect to polished
copper, whether introduced into saline solutions, or alkaline
or acid menstrua. "The electrical effect therefore does not
depend on so simple a condition as would at first appear,
and it may be in fact referred to the combinations containing
two metallic substances and one fluid. The grey sulphuret of copper is negative, in solutions of
hydro-sulphuret, to clean copper, and the superficial coating
has apparently similar electrical powers to this substance.


394 Sir Humenky Davy on the relations of

Copper, in the state. of protoxide, is negative, not only
with respect to metallic copper, but likewise with respect to
the sulphuret; a circumstance which explains many singular
and apparently anomalous cireumstances with respect to the
action of hydro-sulphuret on copper.” T have often found
the order which I have mentioned, of metallic copper being
positive-with respect to-copper that had beer a few seconds
in solution of hydro-sulphuret, reversed-in -a- singular and
capricious way ; but on investigating the cause, I found-that
the copper was: tarnished ; and on | heating any” kind: of
polished copper strongly, s0 as: to produce a thin coating of
oxide any where on its surface, it became. strongly negative
to copper plunged in-solution -of hydro-sulphuret :: the same
effect-was produced by the action of acids. There are some singular circumstances connected with the
violent and intense chemical action of copper on solutions'of
hydro-sulphurets, which are: worthy of - being described/
When: a piece» of copper -connected- with the multiplier has
been-for-a/ minute 'in- strong. solution 'of hydro-sulphuret: of
potassa, on introducing a piece of polished copper connected,
with the'other wire; there'is often a violent-and momentary
negative charge communicated- to-it, which sends'the needle
through a- whole: revolution :/ it then' oscillates; and almost
immediately returns,-and takes-rhe direction which indicates
that the piece first- plunged in is negative.