As most of the fluids which act powerfully in voltaic com-
binations containing water, or oxygen. and hydrogen, it has
been suspected that these principles were essential to the
effect ; this however does not seem to be the case, for 1 found
zinc and platinum formed powerful electro-motive circles in
ſused litharge and fused oxy-chlorate of potassa, which are not


electrical and chemical changes. 407

known to contain water ; and I have little doubt that similar
effects would be produced by other fused salts containing
only acid and alkaline matter. It may elucidate this part of the subject, which must at best
be obscure, to take a view of the changes occurring in one of
the simplest voltaic combinations, that consisting of zinc,
platinum, and solution of sulphate of soda. It is a fact that
zine and platinum become electrical by contact, the zinc
positive, the platinum negative; and the two kinds of elec-
tricity are apparently most intense at the surfaces where they
are in contact with the fluid, which is too imperfect a con-
ductor to allow. them to neutralize or destroy each other :
they consequently exert their attractive and repellent powers
upon the elements of the menstruum ; acid and oxygen cir-
culate to the surface of zinc, which in consequence is dis-
solved, and alkali and hydrogen to the surface of platinum,
of which the hydrogen is disengaged, and the equilibrium
broken by the contact of the metals is restored by the che-
mical changes; so that a constant circulation, or a current of
electricity, takes place, the power of the combination becom-
ing ſeebler in proportion as. the solution is decomposed,
and acid accumulated round its positive, and alkali round
its negative surface. In cases where acids or acid solutions alone are used, the
destruction of one or both surfaces, with the tranfer of hydro-
gen or oxygen, seems to produce the same effect ; and the
inactivity of single circles or Voltaic piles, in which pure
water is used or saline solutions freed from air, seems to
show that the destruction of the surface of the oxidable


408 Sir Humenry Davy'on the relations of

metal is one of the conditions of continued electrical action ;
andthe cessation of: the -power of Ds Luc's/or' ZamBont's
piles, is always connected with the tarvich of. the don
metal employed in them. Having 'published many years ago. tables of the ;rnnket
chemical relations of metals, which have been copied into
many elementary books, I think it-proper to- give them; here
in a corrected form. with some additions, and the differences
dependent upon the nature of the-menstruum. - The metal
mentioned first is: positive to all those below it.in the scale,;

With common acids.