In the ingeniotis, though wild views, and often
inexact experiments of R1TTER, there are more hints which
may be considered as applying to electro-magnetism than to
electro-chemistry ; and W1NnTERL's miraculous © Andronia”
might, with as much propriety, be considered as a type of
all the chemical substances that have been since discovered,
as his view of the antagonist powers, the acid and basic, can
be regarded as an anticipation of the electro-chemical theory,
The queries of NewTon at the end of his © Optics'* contain
more grand and speculative views that might be brought to
bear upon this question than any found. in the works of mo-
dern electricians ;? but it is very unjust to the experimentalists
It 1] P

* Jena, 1800,

+ As a specimen of the Prolusiones, I shall give a few articles from the Index,
which will show the character of the work. Prolusiones, pag. 256, et seq.

256, © Adamas est Andronia,

260. & Andronia cum Plumbo creat Barytam, cum Ferro Chalybem.

262, © Carbo est acidus cum Atmosphera basica.

263. © Chromium non est nisi Calx Magnesii acida.

—. * Cuprum cum Andronia coalescit in Molybdznum.

268, « Scintilla electrica formatur a Principiis Conductorem primum et secundum
animantibus, ac inter se concurrentibus ; est gravis, habet effectum electricitati
contrarium.”

2 See the eloquent observations of Mr. Cuzxzvix on the subject of WinTzR1's
Theory, Annales de Chim, Vol. 50, 2 Cap. 175.


386 Sr Humenry Davy on the relations of

who, by the laborious application of new instruments, have
idscovered novel facts and analogies, to refer them to any
such suppositions as, © that all attractions, chemical,*- elec-
trical, magnetic, and gravitative, may depend upon'the same
cause ;** or to still looser expressions, in which different
words are used and applied to the same ideas, and in which
all the phenomena of nature are supposed to depend on the
Dynamic system, or the equilibetuns and opposition of anta-
gonist powers. The true origin of all that has been done in cries
mical science was the accidental discovery of MM. N1cnorsoN
and CARLISLE, of the decomposition of water by the- pile of
Vorrta, April go, 1800.