SyLvzsTER, who

» Some writers have very incorrectly referred the origin of these researches to
the observations of His1NGER and BERZELIVUS ; Annales de Chem. Vol. 51.1 Cap.
pag. 167; but these observations were never quoted by any writer of the day on
the pretended production of muriatic acid and alkali; and I was not acquainted
with them till after my fundamental experiments were finished; and, when in
drawing up an account of them, I looked back through the whole series of peri-
odical publications to find accounts of experiments bearing upon the same question,
and I believe I first directed the public attention to the yalue of those researches.


electrical and chemical changes. 389

conducted his experiments with some care, stated, that if two
separate portions of water were electrised out of the contact
of substances containing alkaline or acid matter, acid and
alkali were generated ; s0 that up to this time the question,
whether these substances were liberated from their combi-
nations, or formed from their elements by electricity, could

MN not be considered as decided : a circumstance not s0 much to
8 be wondered at, when the novel and extraordinary nature of
E the whole class of galvanic phenomena is considered.

= It was in the beginning of 1806* that I attempted the solu-
E tion of this question ; and after some months” labour I pre-
2 sented to the Society the Dissertation, to which I have referred
S in the beginning of this Lecture. Finding that acid and
Z alkaline substances, even when existing in the most solid
Z combinations, or in the smallest proportion in the hardest
4 bodies, were elicited by Voltaic electricity, I established that
Z they were the results of decomposition, and not of composi-
S tion or generation ; and referring to my experiments of 1800,
S and 1801 and 1802, and to a number of new facts, which
E showed that inflammable substances and oxygen, alkalies
EZ and acids, and oxidable and noble metals, were in electrical
= relations of positive and negative, I drew the conclusion,
S that the combinations and decompositions by electricity were re-
E ferrable to the law of electrical attractions and repulsions, and
= advanced the hypothesis, © that chemical and electrical attrac-

ton were produced by the same cause, acting in one case on parti-
cles, in the other on masses ;** and that the same property, under

Whoever will take the trouble to read the Bakerian Lecture for 1806, will be con-
vinced of the gradual deyelopement of the whole subject from the investigation
respecting the pretended formation of muriatic acid and fixed alkali.

* Phil, Trans. 1807. MDCCCXXVI. 3E


390 Sir Humeury Davy on the relations of

different modifications, was the cause of all the phenomena exhi-
bited by different Voltaic combinations. Believing that our philosophical systems are exceedingly
imperfect, I never attached much importance to this hypo-
thesis ; but having formed it after a copious induction of
facts, and having gained immediately by the application of it
a number of practical results, and considering myself as
much the author of it as I was of the decomposition of the
alkalies, and having developed it in an elementary work, as
far as the present state of chemistry seemed to allow, I have
never criticised or examined the manner in which different
authors have adopted or explained it,—contented, if in the
hands of others' it assisted the arrangements of chemistry or
mineralogy, or became an instrument of discovery.