It
may therefore be presumed that the solvent is secreted only
when'its agency is required ; and this would sufficiently
explain why a free acid cannot be detected in the animal,
Litmus, in the smallest quantity, acts as a poison upon them. The animals exposed to; it remain with their syphons half
projected, which they; do not attempt to retract on being
touched, and perish ina few hours. - If an increased quantity
of calcareous salts could be. detected /in water in which they
had been kept, the experiment would be a decisive one ; but
when it is considered that the animals live in the open sea,
and are to be obtained only at low tides, it is not to be ex-
pected that they will work when confined in a small vessel,
and deprived of food. Had the question been previously balanced, our inability
to detect a solvent would -justify strong doubts of its exist-
ence: but while, all the facts connected with the natural
history of the Lithophagi afford a Strong and consistent Sup-
port to the theory, of a solvent, and are opposed as decidedly







and boring marine animals. 369
tothe supposition-of penetration by a mechanical force, the
failure of the/experiments cannot be: considered to! militate
very strongly against the only inference to be drawn from
the facts. I regret my inability to offer the last decisive
proof, which would have set the question finally at rest'; but
T feel-persuaded that, should future enquiries be successfulin

SD ascertaining facts which have escaped my observation, they
8 will tend:to substantiate the conclusion which I have been led
E to 8upport.
5 |
= EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES
F PLATES XIV, XV.
= b
Z Fig. 1. The Terebella conchilega, as it appears when
Z proceeding to collect materials for its tube; a, the mouth ;
= bb, the larger scales below the head, with which it fixes the
Z materials of its tube ; © c c, the course of one of the muscles
> by which the animal throws itself into folds. : In specimens,
E which have been deprived of food for a few days, the mus-
EE cular fibres become' beautifully distinet.
5 The" figure given by!