His ſtomach and tem- -
E ples are then well rubbed with ſnow, and cold water, or
= milk is poured. down his throat. This friction is conti-
= nued with. freſh ſnow. until the livid hue, which the body
S had when-brought out, is changed to its, natural colour, -
Z and. life renewed;-.then they. cure the violent head-ach
'Z which. remains by. binding on the; forchead. a. cataplaſm -
Z of, black rye bread, and, vinegar:
= 1n this manner the unfortunate man. is perfectly re-
Z ſtored, without blowing up the lungs, as is neceſſary in
3 the caſe,of drowned perſons; on the contrary, they,be-
= gin to;play, of, themſelves ſo ſoon as the ſurcharge of
Z phlogiſton makes-its eſcape from the body. -
Z -oiJt- is well, worthy of obſeryation, how diametrically
© oppoſite, the, modes are. of reſtoring to life, thoſe who
are deprived of it by water, and thoſe who have loſt it
bythe fumes of charcoal: the one conſiſting in the inter-
nal-and external application of heat, and the other in that
of cold. It may bealledged, that the ſtimulus of the cold
- produces, heat,.and, the fact ſeems to, be confirmed by

- the Ruſſian method of reſtoring circulation in a frozen
limb


330 - Dr.curunis 09 the Ruffian Manner of Fi
limb by means of friction with ſnow: But what isfin2
gular in the-caſe of people apparently deprived of life in |
the manner treated of is, that the body'is much warmer |
when brought out of the room than at the inſtant life is
reſtored, and that they awake cold and ſhivering.” ''The f ij
colour of the body is alſo changed from a livid red to its
natural complexion, which, together with' ſome 'other |
circumſtances, would almoſt lead one' to fuſpe&; that
they are reſtored to life by the ſnow: and cold water ſome
hovy or other freeing them from the load of phlogiſton
with which the ſyſtem ſeems to be replete; for although
the firſt application of cold water to the/human'body
produces heat, yet, if often repeated+in a very. cold/ats |
moſphere, it then cools inſtead of continuing to heat, |
juſt as the cold bath does when a perſon remains too long
init. In ſhort, T think it is altogether a curious ſubject, whe-
ther you take into conſideration the mode' of action of
the principle emitted by burning charcoal, and our phlo- |
giſticated cruſt; or the operation of the ſnow and cold
water. However, I ſhall by no means take upon me
to decide, whether the dangerous ſymptoms related *
above are produced by the air in the room being ſo fatu= ©
rated with phlogiſton as to be unable to take up the pro-
per quantity from the lungs, which occaſions a ſur- | if
charge in the ſyſtem, according to your theory, or whe- | Ul

6 ther



treating Perſons afeted by burning Charcoal. 331
* ther ſubtle a fluid may ſomehow find its way into the
circulation,” and thereby arreſt the vital powers; nor
- ſhall I determine whether the livid hue of the. body
þ when brought out is changed into a paler colour by the
14 atmoſphere ſomehow or other abſorbing and freeing the
8 blood from the colouring principle, as you have ſhewn
Z to be the caſe with blood out of the body: theſe are cu-
> Tious inquiries that I ſhall leave to your inveſtigation.