From this simple and incontestable principle, in which the
second differences only are neglected, it is very easy to de-
duce the values of annuities, payable at intervals shorter than
a year. An annuity of 1, payable half yearly, is equal to-two
annuities of 4, the one beginning as usual at the end of the
year, the other anticipated by half a year; and the value of
this portion is greater than the other by half of one of the
payments, that is, by + : so0 that © Je may always find the
value of a life annuity payable half yearly, by adding a quarter of
a year to the tabular value of the same annuity.”

In a similar manner it is very easily shown, that ** for
quarterly payments, we must add + of a year's value to the com-
putation made on the supposition of annual payments ;”* and
« the continual bisection of the interval would at-last afford
us the addition of half a yearly payment for the value of a daily
or hourly payment of a proportional part of the given annuity.”

* It may also be observed, that when we reckon at $ per


. the decrement of human life. 801

cent. interest, an annuity payable half yearly is the same,
throughout the middle of life, that would be granted on the
life of a person a year older, if payable annually.”

If it is required to ascertain the value of a reversionary
annuity payable half yearly or quarterly, the calculation be-
comes in appearance a little paradoxical ; for since' the true
value of a reversionary annuity for the life of one person,
for example, after the death of another, is the difference be-
tween the values of two annuities on the single life and the
joint lives, and since an equal addition must be made to' these
values in consideration of the period of payment being short-
ened, it follows that the reversionary annuity must be of
equal value in either form. This conclusion would indeed
be strictly true if the periodical times of payment remained
unaltered, according to the supposition from which the value
of the annuities is deduced ; while in fact it is usual to grant
such an annuity to commence at the first-quarterly, half yearly,
or annual period after the contingent event: a variation
which would have no sensible effect in the case of daily pay-
ments, but which lessens the value of reversionary annuities
at other periods by that of half a payment for the given
period, reduced to the present time in the same manner'as
any other sum assured as payable upon the same contingency
of survivorship. The simplicity observable'in the progression of the values
of annuities, calculated according to the values of lives here
supposed, and at's percent. interest, leads us to inquire what
would be. the exact law” of mortality required to make that
progression strictly uniform throughout life; and it will appear
on investigation, that in! order 'to have' the value 24.45 — =o,

MDCCCXXVI. Rr


302 Dr.