LXIX, ; *Ff Hiftire
W



218 Mr. cazauD's Method' of

The natural hiſtory of the cane,

There are but few of the minute particulars I a
going to mention, but what are ſome how or other con:
| nected with my method. The upper part of the cane, commonly called the
head, is the beſt plant that can be uſed to propagate it,
ſe fig. 7. ſee likewiſe fig. 1.; it is the part from / to 7
which in this figure is without its leaves. It is a kno
fact, that the body of the cane does not come up well
unleſs there are continued rains from the time of its be
ing put into the ground, till all the ſhoots are out and
pretty ſtrong. Hifto! Hiſtoire naturelle de la canne.

11 eft peu des details minutieux dans leſquels je yais entrer qui rYait- un rap
port quelquonque ayec mon ſyſteme,

La partie ſuperieure de la-canne appellee communement la tete, eſt le meil.
leur plan dont on puiſſe ſe ſeryir pour la multiplier, v. fig. 7, v. aufh fig. 1
ceſt 1a partie depuis / juſqu'a », elle eſt dans cette figure depouillee de ſes
feuilles: i] eſt recopnu que le corps de la-canne ne reuffit point 4 moins d'une
pluye continuelle depuis le moment qu'il eſt en terre, juſqu'au moment oli tou
les jets ſont ſortis et ailez yigoureux,


cultivating Sugar Canes, 219

Hiſtory of the roots of the ſugar cane, and of its produc-
tions under ground,

+ If the plant be put into the ground as ſoon as it 1s cut,
Snd the weather happens to be very hot and dry, a fort-
Fight often paſſes before the eye can diſcover any altera-
Yon i in the two or three moſt promiſing joints; the firſt
Yeing too hard (ſee a fig. 2.) become immediately dry;
He others (ſee from y to z in the ſame figure) are only
S&raſs, and produce nothing, unleſs when the laſt hap-
ens to ſhoot at its extremity.

2 When the dry weather continues, but ſo as not materi-
Dy to affect the ſoil in contact with the inferior part of
Me plant, one diſcovers at the end of three weeks, about
Fbat part of the joint which lies undermoſt in the trench,

S ſome
=

S

ED LEN OL OE ELL nn I _—————___
Z Hiſtoire des racines de la canne et de ſes produfions en terre,

'\F ® Sile plan eſt mis en terre auſſi tot qu 'jl eft coupe, et qu'il ſurvienne de

Sis chaleurs fans pluye, il eſt ſouvent quinze jours ſans que Vaeil decouvre
1a moindre alteration dans les deux ou trois nceuds de la plus grande efperancez
les premiers, trop durs, v. a, fig. 2. ſont d'abord deſſeches; les autres, her-
'bacts, v. y Jorg! a z, ne produiſent rien A moins que le dernier ne ſe deyeloppe
ar ſon extremite,
* $ile ſec continue et quiil ne ſe fafle pas ſentir vivement juſqui la terre qui
© touche la partie infericure du plan, ou decouyre apres trois ſemaines A cette partie
i Ff2 du


220 Mr. cazaur's Method of
ſome white fibres of about half a line in length and
thickneſs: notwithſtanding, however, this beginning of
vegetation, the plant {till dies, unleſs it rains, before the

ſoil in contact with theſe ſmall roots be entirely dry; at *
leaſt I have always found the earth dry under theſe ſmall
roots, when, in conſequence of a long drought, the plant |:
from which they had come was entirely dried up, But I '
have ſeen plants, put into the ground as ſoon as cut, put |
forth one, and ſometimes two ſprigs at the end of fix |
weeks, though they had been deprived of rain for above
a month, When the plant is ſomewhat withered, that
is, when it has not been planted till ſome days after '
having been cut, it thrives ſooner when- afſifted by rain, *
and dies ſooner when deprived of it: the reaſon I take ©
to be this, it could not wither without loſing ſome
part of that moiſture which it contains, and which it

wanted
re EE TRINES

du nceud qui touche le fond de la foſle, quelques fils blancs de la longueur et de la |
groileur Tune demi Jigne: apres ce commencement de vegetation, le plan meurt
&il ne pleut pas avant que Ja terre qui touche ces petites racines ſoit enticrement
deſlechee, ou du moins j'ay toujours trouye la terre ſeche ſous ces petites racines
loriqu* apres un, long ſec, Jay trours le plan qui les ayoit donndes entierement
- defſechs; mais Jay yu du plan mis en terre auſfi-t6t que coupe prive de pluye
pendant plus d'un mois donner un et quelquefois deux jets apres fix ſemaines: f _
le plan eſt un peu fanne, c'eſt a dire coupe quelquesjours ayant d'@tre mis en terre,
il leye plus vite gil eſt ſeconds de Ia pluye, et meurt plut6t gil en eft prive,
parce qu'il n'a pu ſe fanner ſans perdre une partie de Veau qu'il contenoit, dont q

I ! x


cultivating Sugar Canes.” 221

wanted to preſerve it from the dryneſs of the fſur-
"rounding earth, which | earth itſelf alſo probably
fucks up part of its humidity :. { am, therefore, apt to
© think, though contrary to the opinion 'of a great many peo

3 q þle, that it 1s beſt to put the plant into the ground as ſoon as
Ve 1s CU.

2dly, We all along ſuppoſe the weather to be tolera-
3 bly favourable; then, when the ſmall roots, which

Sof the plant, ſee 5, fig. 2.; it next deſcribes a ſpiral, c; and
Sat length comes out of the earth like the point of an ar-
row, d.