On paſſing through the ftireets of London in his
walks, before the ſign-irons were taken down, he per-
ceived, that on the broad ſtone pavements, whenever he
came juſt under any fign-irons, his cane gave a different
ſound, and occaſioned a different kind of reſiſtance to
the hand, from what it did elſewhere; and attending
more particularly to this circumſtance, he found, that
every where, under the drip of thoſe irons, the ſtones
had acquired a greater degree of ſolidity, and a wonder-
ful hardneſs, fo as to reſiſt any ordinary tool, and gave,
when ſtruck upon, a metallic found: and this faCt, by
repeated obſeryations, he was at length moſt thoroughly
convinced of,

Taking the hint, therefore, from hence, he thought
fit to make ſeveral experiments; and, amongſt the reſt,
placed two pieces of Portland ftone in the fame aſpe&t
and ſituation in every reſpect, but waſhed the one fre-
quently with water impregnated with ruſty iron, and left
the other untouched: and in a very few years he found
the former had acquired a very ſenſible: degree of that
hardneſs before deſcribed, and on being fruck gave the
metallic ſound; whilſt the other remained in its original
Mate, and ſubject to the decays occaſioned by the changes:

of


Petrefa#tion found at Eaft Lothian. 45
of the weather, which we find in many inſtances make
a moſt rapid progreſs. He alſo mentioned to me a very curious circumftance
of his having found on the ſea-coaft near Scarborough,
many years ago, part of an horſe-ſhoe incruſted with ſea
S ' ſand, which was ſo concreted as to have acquired the
5 hardneſs of common grit ſtone, and retained the colour
S of the ſand, with very little tincture of the iron ochre:
> and by the part which was left free from the incruſtation
jt appeared moſt probable, that the Horſe-ſhoe had not
Z been buried there many years, but had very recently ac-
A quired this incruſtation upon that part only that was-
'3 moſt expoſed to the waſhing of the ſea water. E Now, all theſe fa&ts put together ſcarce leave any
Z doubt but that iron, and ſolutions of iron, do grealy pro-
Z mote and haſten the progreſs of all kinds of petrifaftion;
5 and therefore, to purſue Lord Bacon's rule of induc--
Z tion, deducing truth from a variety of facts and experi-
= ments, all manifeſtly and uniformly leading us to the
8 fſameconcluſion, we may fairly infer, that whereas iron-

is of ſuch manifeſt uſe in the progreſs of vegetation, that

plants are indebted for their green colour'®, and. for

(gz) There are ſome exceeding curious experiments: and obſervations of Mr,
DELAvAL's, tending to illuſtrate. this fa, in the- Phil, Tranſ, . vol. LY. P+ 36, 37+

7 many


46 Mr. x1NG's Account of a

many of their valuable qualities, to its being intimately
mixed in their ſubſtance; and as it is moreover obviouſly
uſeful, ſome way or other, in the animal ſyſtem, and may
be extracted by the magnet from the athes of animal
ſubſtances; ſo it is no leſs uſeful in the conſolidation of
ſtones and marble in the foſſil world.