The column of hydrogen in each tube
would support 15 inches of mercury, and would in all respects
resemble the upper half of: the first column, A, of hydrogen
gas, that supported go inches, excepting a slight difference
occasioned by distance from the earth and temperature ; and
the same. may-be observed of the carbonic acid column in
each tube. | But would this constitution of the mixture be

* Query, might not the absolute- height of an atmosphere of carbonic, acid gas
(or any other) be found, by perfectly exhausting a tall receiyer, then letting in a
small given portion of the: gas, and finding by some chemical test that the gas
existed in the lower but not in the upper portion of the receiver ?


182 Mr. DaLTon on the constitution of the atmosphere.

permanent? Would a mixed atmosphere, which in fact as a
whole, consisted of equal weights of carbonic acid and hydro-
gen, continue to exhibit at the surface of the earth equal
volumes only in mixture ? - Or, on the other hand, would not
the whole be wrought up in due time into one uniform com-
position in all its extent, of 20 volumes of hydrogen with one
of carbonic acid, as many suppose to be the nature of the
earth's atmosphere with regard to its component parts ? Before these questions are discussed we shall put the case
in a different form : suppose a mixture of 20 volumes of
hydrogen and one volume of carbonic acid (that is equal
weights of each), were put into a large reseryoir under the
constant pressure of go inches of mercury, and from this
reservoir were passed by means of a stop-cock into the inde-
finite perpendicular tube, A, perfectly void, till such time as
the equilibrium between the reservoir and the tube was
established : query, what would be the final arrangement of
the two gases in the tube ? [I believe it will be allowed by
all, that the final arrangement of the mixture of gases will
be precisely the same in this case as in the one previously
stated, whatever that arrangement may be. Now I apprehend it is demonstrable, from what we know
of the nature of mixed gases, that each of the two gases
would be disposed just the same as if the other was not
present.