The apparent expanſion of that ai
was meaſured, by the grains that filled the ſeveral ſeCtions
of the tube betweerr zero and the boiling point; the ſuny |
being the total expanſion or increaſe of yolume, from a
heat of 212%. The apparent expanſion, thus found, was !
again augmented for the dilatation of the tube, on. the
following principles. b
In the firſt part of this paper I have ſhewn, that ſolid [
glaſs rods dilate much leſs than barometer tubes, The:
mean between Mr, $MEATON's and my experiments, give ;
52; of an inch for the longitudinal extenſion of every
foot of theſe tubes, by 212% From the rate of going of
a clock, for near a year, whoſe pendulum rod is ſolid
glaſs, its dilatation ſeems to be one-third part of a ſteel rod, |
or +

i


meaſuring Heights with the Barometer. 699
PPE on a foot, by 212% Now, as the manometers re-
-ſemble ſolid rods much more than they do barometer
”tubes, it is probable their dilatation, even allowing for the
\ greater extenſion of the bulb, would not exceed ths of
Awinch on a: Foot, or th part on every two inches. In
[ this ratio I lidve therefore augmented the apparent, to
obtain the true, capacity of each manometer, The equa-
! tion, amounting to about ;;;th part of the whole, being
5 els than the common error of ſuch complicated obſer-

at ions, night in faCt have been entirely omitted, with-
| Pro jcing any material alteration in the relies. B olume of any number of equal parts of air caring
Fo. the capacity of the bulb and tube in grains) and ver y
Sften likewiſe the partial expanſions for intermediate
Zemperatures, expreſſed by the contents of the correſ-
FSonding ſections of the tube, I then found the ratio

Enſwering to 1000 equal parts, which, being divided by
Zhe degrees of difference of temperature, gave the mean
arate for the whole ſcale, or the particular rate for any
Intermediate ſeCtion of it,

Theexperiments,conſidered in this way, are diſtributed
Into four claſſes, whereof the reſults are comprehended
inthe four followingtables, The firſt ſhews the expanſion

. of air, whoſe denſity was much greater than that of the
Vor. LXVII. 4 X common


700 Col.