Dx Luc's obſervations, where
the lowermoſt barometer ſtood about 1300 feet above
the ſea, the equation for the ſame temperature ſeemed
not to exceed ;+;;, Laſtly, theſe circumſtances being
confronted with the reſults of Mr. poucvurR's obſerva--
tions, where the lowermoſt barometer ſtood from 6000.
to 8000 feet above the os the mean equation for 5 5®'
was only £3, which gives 2; for the heat of 52%, Now!

theſe Peruvian obſervations, which I believe to be ex- |

ceedingly good from the ſteadineſs of the barometer in ©
that part of the world, being ſubſtituted in lieu of thoſe
not yet obtained in our own quarter of the "Bobs, ay Pa

as the hei gSht of the place above the ſea increaſed; which ©
conſequently implied, that the magnitude of the loga-
vithmic terms increaſed fafter than the dilatations of the! y
air. But when the compariſon was carried yet farther, and”
the obſervations in Peru and at 'Spitzbergen were fairly
brought into one view, there appeared to be ſufficient ©
grounds for ſuſpeCting, if not abſolutely for concluding, þ
that there could be no fixed zero for the ſcale depending
on the temperature of the air; but that it would change
with the denſity of the atmoſphere appertaining to the

- latitudes,


meaſuring Heights with the Barometer. 7.57)
latitudes, climates, or zones of the earth, where the ob-
ſervations were made. On this ſuppoſition it was natural
for the mind to form to itſelf ſome general iypotheſis,
which might ſerve to account for the appearances; and
the firſt that preſented itſelf was the following: that the

k atmoſphere ſurrounding our globe might- poſſibly be
8 compoſed of particles, whoſe {ſpecific gravities were
S really different; that the lighteſt were placed at the
5 equator; and that the denſity of the others gradually in-
B creaſed from thence towards the poles, where the hea-
= yieſt of all had their poſition”.
2 It is a well known and eſtabliſhed fact, that in the
E middle latitudes, a North or North-ealt wind conſtantly
4 raiſes the barometer, and generally higher as its con-
S tinuance is longer. The contrary happens when a South
E or South-weſt wind blows; for I belieye it is commonly
E loweſt when the duration and ſtrength of the wind from
S (9) It was ſuggeſted by Dr. czoroE ForDyce, that equatorial and Green-
S land air might be brouglit bottled up, and weighed in this country in air of the
[5 reſpcRive temperatures, by means of a curious balance whereof he is poſſeſſed,
in order to fee whether any difference could be diſcovered in their ſpecifie
- pravities. A thought of the ſame kind, but more eaſily put to experiment,
occurred to Licutenant GLENIE, of the Royal Artillery, namely, that of
weighing equatorial and polar ſea-water, To this gentleman I am obliged for

His aſſiſtance in part of the manometrical experiments, as well as in ſeyeral of
the computations,

VoL, LXVIIL 5D that


752 Col.