Mr. ScuzgLE mentions his

having obtained dephlogiſticated air from manganeſe diflolved:
in acid of phoſphorus, and alſo from the arſenical acid :' from”
whence it appears, that theſe acids, or perhaps any acid which
can bear a red heat, can concur to the produ@tion of dephlo-
giſticated air, 7! is meceſary to remark, that no experiments have”
been yet publiſhed ſhewing that dephlogifticated air can be produced
from ſalts formed by the muriatic acid, The acids which produce
ſalts ſuitable for this purpoſe, have all « firong affinity with”
fhlogifton 5 and the marine acid bas either @ very ſmall affinity
with jt, or elfe is already ſaturated with it, at leaft fo far ſatus'
rated as not 19 be able to attratt it from the humor. 3

14. 4 The dephlogiſticated air obtained from the pure calces
* of metals may be attributed to the calces themſelves, attraQt-
© ing the phlogiſton from water which they have imbibed from
2 «* the



| Parts of Water and of Dephlogiſticated Air. 345.
- 4: the atmoſphere, 'or from dephlogiſticying the fixed-air which
« they are known to contain,” RFA

. Itis very probable, that the dephlogiſticated airextruded from
growing vegetables may be owing to their dephlogiſticating the
water they -grow:in 3 but it appears more. probable, that the
* plants have a/power of dephlogiſticating the fixed, or phlo-
gilticated, air of the atmoſphere.
= «© When dephlogiſticated and nitrous air are - mine the de-
by phlogiſticated air ſeizes part of the phlogiſton of the nitrous.
36 air.” The water contained in the nitrous air, and the other
Spart of the phlogiſton, unite with the nitrous acid, which then
Aflumes a liquid form, or at leaſt that of a denſe vapour; © and
Ss that part of the latent heat of the two airs not effential to-the
3+ new combination is ſet at liberty *.”
= In the combuſtion. of ſulphur the ſame thing happens, but
an a greater degree ; for the vitriolic acid, having a much weaker
AttraCion for” phlogiſton than air has, abandons it almoſt en-
Airely to the latter, which is thereby converted into water, and
Sn that form attra&ts the vitriolic acid, and reduces it to a liquid
te. ''The ſame reaſoning may be applied to the combuſtion
f phoſphorus, which is attended with ſimilar effefts,

S \
S * T cannot take upon me to determine, from any facts which have come to my
Amnowledge, whether any part of the dephlogiſticated air employed in this experi- (/
Fvent is turned jnto fixed air ; but I am rather inclined to think that ſome part is,
becauſe the quantity of heat, which is ſeparated by the union of the two airs,
does not ſeem to be ſo great as that which is ſeparated when the dephlogiſticated
air is wholly changed into water: yet ſome water appears to be formed, becauſg
© when the' mixture is made over mercury, the ſolution of the mercury in the ni-
© trous acid aſſumes a-cryſtallized form, which, howeyer,” may be due to the watery

- part of the nitrous air,


346 Mr. Wixt's Thoughts on the conſtituent \ ?
15. I ſhall not make, /at preſent, any further deduftions þ
from what 1 myſelf conſider till in the light of a conjecturat
hypothe F
T ſhall only beg your attention to
fubjeR ; which, however, may poſſibly ſerve more to thew the

uncertainty of other ſyſtems on the conſtituent parts of air, than
the certainty of this.