Francis in eyery, thing about. them, It is
an old. notion, that. the religion. of 'Thibet is a.corruptec /
Chriſtianity; and even. Father DISEDER11,; a, Jeſuit (but?
not. of the Chineſe miſſion) who. viſited, the. countrys/
about the beginning of this century, thinks he,can. re-"
ſolve, all their myſteries into ours;. and afferts, with- as
true myſtical penetration, that they have certainly a:good,
notion of the Trinity, fince,.in their addreſs to the Deity, !\
they ſay, as often Konciok-oik in, the: plural as, Koncioky
in the ſingular, and with their roſaries pronounce theſe, +
words, Om, ha, bum. The truth. is, that the religion of,
Thibet, from whence-ever it ſprung, is. pure and. fimpley
i its-ſource, conveying very exalted notions of the Deity, $
with, ng..contemptible ſyſtem. of morality; but in, its;
progreſs *


1)
| \7he" Kingdom of Thibets 47
progreſs it has been greatly; altered and-corrupted by the
ntions-of worldly-men, a-fate we cant hardly regretin
ſyſtem of error, fince-we/ know that'that of 'truth' has:
\been ſubje&tto- the ſame.” Polygamy, atleaſt in the ſenſe
-we commonly receive the word, is-not in practice among”
em ; but it exiſts in a-manner ſtill more repugnant to-
- op ideas; mean-in-the plurality of huſbands,
Shich is firmly) eſtabliſhed and/ highly: reſpected there.
'Ha country'where the means of {ubliſting a/family are
ET: eaſily found, it ſeerns not impolitic to allow a ſet of
Jothers to-agree in raiſing! one,/whicl is to be main=
Ainedby their joint efforts,” In ſhort, it is'uſual ir Thi-
: for the brothers in the family to have 'a wife in com-
Hon, and'they: generally live in, great harmony and:com-
rt with her; not but ſometimes little difſenſions' will
Ziſe (as. may happen in families/ conſtituted upon dif-
zrent principles)-an inſtance'of which Mr, BocLE men-
Dns-in the caſe of a modeſt and virtuous lady, the wife
7 half a dozen of the Tayſhoo/Lama's nephews, who
I nplained' to the uncle, that the two youngeſt of her
auſbands did-not furniſh that ſhare of love and benevo-
nce'to the cortimon. ſtock which duty and religion re-
jnired of thera.” 11 ſhort; however ſtrange this cuſtony
[may appear to'us, it is ar undoubted: fact that/it! prevails.
2Thidet in/tho manner” I have:deſeribed,/ {|
Mad" 5 The:



478 Myc $TEw RT's Account of

'The manner-of beſtowing their dead is alſo ſingular
theyneither,put them in the ground like the Europeans;
nor. burn them like the Hindoosz-but expoſe them on:
the..bleak pinnacle of ſome,neighbouring mountain, to!
be devoured by wild beafts and birds of prey, or waſted:
away by time and the. vicifſitudes of weather in'which!
they lie. The mangled carcaſes; and bleached bones lye
ſcattered abouitz: arid, amidſt this ſcene; of horror, ſome;
miſerable,old wretch, man or woman, loſt to-all feelings)
but thoſe of ſuperſtition, generally ſets up an abode, to.
perform the-diſmal office of receiving the bodies, afgny
ing each a place, and gathering up the remains when too!
widely diſperſed:

The religion-of Thibet, although it be in many of i its
principal dogmaza totally repugnant! to that of the Bras)
mins or of India, yet-in others it has a- great affinity to:
it. - They -have, for-inſtaneey a great veneration for the
cow; but they transfer it wholly from the common 1p
cies to that which bears'the tails, 'of which I ſhall ſpea /
hereafter. They alſo highly reſpect the waters.iof the,
Ganges, the ſource of which they; believe to be in Heas:
ven; and one of the firſt effects which- the treaty with
the Lama;produced, was an application'to the governor
general,” for) leave to! build a place: of worthip/;on its
banks.