LXVII, Rre bending



482 Mr, STEWART'S Account of
bending its courſe more ſoutherly, joins the Ganges, its
ſiſter and rival, with an equal, if not more copiqus
fiream; forming at the conflux a body of running freſh
water, hardly to be paralleled in the known world, which
diſembogues itſelf into the Bay of Bengal. Two ſuch
rivers uniting in this happy conntry, with all the beauty,
fertility, and convenience which they bring, well entitles
it to the name of the Paradiſe of Nations, always bes.

ftowed upon it by the Moguls. &

The chief trade from Lahafla to Pekin is carried on
by caravans that employ full two years in the journey:
thither and back again; which is not ſurprizing, when:
we conſider that thediſtance cannot beleſs thantwo thous
fandEngliſh miles; and yet it is to beobſerved, that an ex)
preſs from Lahaffa reaches Pekin in three weeks, a cir
cumſtance much to the honour of the Chineſe police
which knows toeſtabliſh fo ſpeedy andeffectual a commas
nication throngh mountains and defarts for ſolong aways
The trade with Siberia is carried on by caravans to Seling-
which is undoubtedly the Selinginiky of the Ruflian tras
vellers on the borders of Baykal lake. And thisaccount-
for an extraordinary fact mentioned by BzLL; that, a1
the banks' of the river of that name, he one day four.
a man buſy in redeeming, from ſome: boys who wet
angling, the. fiſh they caught, and throwing them'int©

tb


the water again; and from this circumſtance, and the
- mark on his forehead, knew him to be an Indian, On
| converſing with him, he found his conjecture to be right,
| The man told him, he came from Madrafſs, had been two
years on his journey, and mentioned by name fome of
he principal Engliſh gentlemen there, This Indian, no
Houbt, muſt have travelled as a Faquier or Sunniafly
=through Bengal into Thibet, and from thence paſſed
Swith the caravan to Selingin{ky, where BELL found him. At is proper to-remark, that the Indians have an admira-
Eble method of turning godlineſs into great gain, it being
: Suſual for the Faquiers to carry_with them, in their, pil-
Zgrimages from the ſea-coaſts to the interior parts, pearls,
corals, ſpices, and other precious articles, of ſmall bulk,
Zphich they exchange on their return for gold-duſt,
muſk, and other things of a ſimilar nature, concealing
Sthem eaſily in their hair and in the cloths round their
middle, and carrying on, conſidering their numbers, no
conſiderable traffic by:theſe- means, The Gofſeigns are
Alſo of a religious order, but in dignity above the Faquiers;
- and they drive a more extenſive and a more open trade
"With that country.

£
vile

the Kingdom of Thibet, 433

A particular account of the commerce would be fo-
© Feign'to the purport of this letter; but, as it would leave
"the information which I wiſh to covey very incom-
4 Rrrz2 pleat,

-


484 Mr. STEWART'S Account uf ©
pleat; did 'I not mention the ſources from which this
country, ſo apparently poor and unfruitful, draws a ſup=
ply of the foreign articles of convenience and luxury,
which I have occaſionally faid they pofſeſs; I ſhall juſt
obſerve, that,. befides their-leſs. traffic with. their neigh--
bours itt hoxfes, hogs, rock-ſalt, coarſe cloths, and other :
articles, they enjoy four ſtaple articles, which are ſuffi
cient in»themſelves to procure every foreign commodity F
of which they ſtand in need; all of which are-naturak”
productions, and deſerve to be particularly noticed.