This is the ſareſt method to. render exactly correſpon
dent thoſe 6bſervations which are made with Barome :
which one cannot compare together; at the ſame ti
that the barometrical height expreſſed by Barometers «
this form is the-only true one; that is:to ſay, the-only'!
one which, after the correction for the heat,: exprefl f
the weight of the air, by the height of & column «
quickſfilver of a given denſity, with which it is really 1
equilibrio. aior aoig
I ſhall begin the account of "my obſeryations- of. t '
Barometer in the Hartz by thoſe which 1 made in places
the height of which is aſcertained. "56
Knowing that the ore is drawn up in pales froms
the pits of the mines, I thought at firit that it woulM

et non par une meſure immediate, qui parte du niveau du mercure dans Je' re({
voir, Ceſt le plus ſur moyen de rapporier ayec exaCtitude Jes unes aux au
4 L- - no, , 4 T
des obſervations faites avec des Barometres-que Yon n'a, py, comparer;z en meni&
tems que la hauteur barometrique exprimee, par les Barometres de cette forme, M
la ſeule vraie; c'eſt a dire la ſeule qui, apres la correion: pour la chaleur, e
prime le poids de Vair par la hauteur Wune colomne de mereure de. de
donnee, avec laquelle il eſt recllement en <quilibre,

Hartz, par celles/que j'ai faites en des lieux dont la hauteur eft connus,
Sachant que Yon monte le minerai dans des ſeaux, par les! puits. des ming
Favois cru Cabord qu'il me ſeroit poſlible de meſurer ces profondeurs au cordeal


the Depth of the Mines in the Hartz. 407

be eaſy to meaſure their depths with a line, and I had

q cordingly provided mylelf with all the neceflary im-
\Hements for that purpoſe; but when I arrived at Claul-
p al, the principal place of the King's mines, I found that
hoſe pits, being dug in the direCtion of the veins of ore,
Are too inclined to make ſuch a mode of menſuration
practicable. At firſt this gave me great concern, becauſe I had
Ty experiments much at heart; but I was ſoon made
daſy by Baron REDEN, captain-general of the mines.
3 You do not want theſe meafures,” ſaid he, © ſince it is
| X of much more conſequence to us, than it can poſſibly
26 be to you, to know exactly the depth of all the points
= of theſe mines. Without ſuch knowledge, how could

> we direct ourſelves in boring from one to the other?”
This conſideration did in fact diſpel all the ſcruples
hich had made me deſirous of meaſuring the depths
; myſelf,

$j2 m*etois muni des choſes neceffaires a cet effet. © Mais lorſque je fus arrive A
hal,” chef lieu des mines du Roi, jappris que ces puits, creuſcs dans 1a
Aion des filons, ſont! trop 'inclines pour que cette eſpece de meſure ſoit
| poſtible, Py eus Uabord beaucoup de regret; parce que Jayois fort a coeur
$ experiences: mais M, le Baron DE REDEN, capitaine-gencral des mines, me
—tranquillifa bientot. « Vous n'avez pas beſoin de: meſurer,” me dit-il, © il nous
*&'importe bien plus qu'a yous de connoitre exaQtement ta profondeur de tous
Siles points 'de ces' mines. Sans'cela,) comment nous dirigerions-nous, pour

= deVung vVautre?? 'Cette'confideration' en effet,” fit diſparoitre pleine-
IT ment


408 M. pr. 1ve's Barometrical Obſervations on

myſelf, and by ſo doing gave me time for a greater my
ber of obſervations. 2013
The firſt of this kind were made in three mines in the
environs of Clauſthal; called the Dorothea, the Carolingy)
and the Benedict, Mr, DE REDEN and Meff, HELZENER
FRIEDRICH, Chief officers of the miners, went down w1
me; and, whilſt we were penetrating into the bowels

the mountain, Mr. LEYSER, ſyndic of the mines, and @
lover of meteorological obſervations, was obſerving eve |
.quarter of an hour, at the top of the pit into which wi
had deſcended, a barometer and thermometer whick»
have been ſince compared with mine. j
I had obſerved my Barometer at the mouth of t
Dorothea pit when we were going into the 1
half an hour after eleven in the morning; I obſerved il
a
,

ment les ſcrupules qui navoient fait defirer de meſurer moi-meme ces preq
Spndeurs;. ce qu me facilita un play le nombre Cobſerrations, 4

lapeine oy deſcendre avec moi: et tandis que nous nous enfongions dans le. :
de la montagne, M.