On comparing the two months July
and Auguſt of the year 1772, it appears that the tem- ,
(JUKT 12N MV] perature


the Annual. Evaporation. at-Liverpool, 8&c. 251,
- perature of the air,-the ſtate of the, winds, andthe, eva-
poration, were nearly the ſame during'theſe two-months,
- and yet'the rain. of Auguſt was more than double/that of
July. The reaſon why the greater quantity of rain had
- no more effect than; the {maller in adding moiſture. to
: the atmoſphere, is obvious; for on conſulting my regitter
I find, that the rain of Auguſt fell-in heavy ſhowers, and
' ran off the ground before-it could; þereyaporated; while
g that of July, falling in ſmall drizzling/ ſhowers, gave
Z more time; for:its evaporation. |
= "Again, the temperature of the! ain, the, ſtate of the
= winds, andthe evaporation; were nearly theſame during
2 the firſt three months of the year-17/7.3, with what, they
o were during the laſt three months of that,year;. the ſtate
5 of the air therefore, with reſpe&t ito moiſture, and dry-
1 neſs, muſt have been the ſame during theſe two ſeaſons;
E and yet the depth of rain, un one. of theſe ſeaſons, was
2 much more than double what /it was,in the other, If
E we attend to whole years the ſame gbſervation is con-
« firmed, The rain of t577 5 exceeded! the rain of 1774
more than eight inches; and hence it, might be con-
cluded, that the atmoſphere: was more moiſt in, 177 5
thanin 1974; the reverſe of this; however, is found to be
| the fact: for there evaporated from a conſtant and deter-
minate ſurface of water in 177.5, full three inches more
Kkg than


ug > Dri/ Don8ON's'ObJervations on

thaiy evaporated from the ſame ſurface of water in 1774
Conſequently the dryneſs of the atmoſphere or its power
of ſolution, ET bank year 177 5 —__ that i of:

Pop grate mn
2./1f we take the medium of four years Jſeviadions

it appears, that 'the annual evaporation at POR
amounts to'36.78 inches. - 4+ jail

Dr. HatLiEy obſerved at London, that water-placedin'
a doſe room, where neither the winds or. Sun- could a&
upon' it, exhaled only eight /inches during the whole:
year.