The general tenor of the results of these experiments is
opposed to the opinion, that common carbonaceous substances
difter from the diamond by containing oxygene; for in this
case they ought to increase and not diminish the volume of
oxygene: nor, on the other hand, is it favourable to the sup-
position that the diamond contains ox ygene, for the difference
in the quantity of carbonic acid produced in the different ex-
periments, is no more than may be reasonably ascribed to the
generation of water, in the combustion of the common carbo-
naceous substances; and the results of the experiments, to
which I have referred in the beginning of this Paper on the
action of potassium on the diamond, may be easily accounted
for from other circumstances. +

* Annales de Chimie, 'Tome LXXXLV. page 241.
+ See Bakerian Lecture for 1808. Potassium decomposes the silica in glass by
being heated in contact with it, and in the case in which equal quantities of potassium

4D2


568 Sir H. Davy's Experiments on the

That charcoal is more inflammable than the diamond may
be explained from the looseness, of its texture, and from the
hydrogene it contains ; but the diamond appears to burn in
oxygene with as much facility as plumbago, so that at least
one distinction supposed to exist between the diamond and
common carbonaceous substances is done away by these re-
searches, :

A fact which I formerly noticed, the blackening of diamond
by the long continued action of heated potassium, induced me
to suspect in. the beginning of these inquiries, that common
charcoal might owe its colour, opacity, and conducting power,
to the circumstance of its containing minute. portions. of the
metals of the alkalies, or earths, and plumbago to. the iron it
contains; but when I found that charcoal made. from oil of
turpentine, which left no residuunp1 in burning, and charcoal
precipitated from carburetted hydrogene gas by. chlorine,
had the same properties, it was necessary to, renounce this
opinion. The only chemical difference perceptible between diamond
and the purest charcoal, is that the last contains a minute por-
tion of hydrogene ; but can a quantity of an element, less in
some cases than 35355 part of the weight. of the substance,
occasion. 80, great a difference in physical and chemical cha-
racters? This is possible, yet it-is contrary to analogy, and I
am more inclined to adopt the opinion of Mr.